d{orccstcrpolutcchnic  Jnstitutc 
0corgc  £.  Oordon  "Cibraru 


jfrgf't'     '      ^  -IVfc.V 


Here  is  an  extensive  list 

of  the  significant  suppliers  of  forgings 

for  nuclear  projects: 


Wyman-Gordon. 


This  list  is  important  because, 

( 1 )  nuclear  project  builders  specify  the  highest 
of  metallurgical  standards,  and  .  .  . 

(2)  their  demands  for  product  reliability  are  as 
severe  as  any  application  we  know. 

Any  high-performance  equipment  benefits  by  relying  on  the 
company  that  is  a  major  supplier  of  metal  components  meeting 
these  nuclear  super-standards  ...  in  a  broad  range  of  shapes, 
materials  and  forms  .  .  .  forgings,  precision  thin-wall  cylinders, 
compound  contour  panels,  rolled  rings. 

Whenever  components  need  peak  performance  and  reliability, 
look  to  the  total  capability  of  Wyman-Gordon;  it  comes  from  our 
aggressive  concern  with  improved  technology.  Wyman-Gordon 
Company,  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Other  offices  in  Chicago, 
Detroit,  Dayton,  Los  Angeles,  Fort  Worth,  Seattle,  Bombay  and 
Geneva. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


Forgings  of  all  sizes  and  metals 


the 
journal 

Publis^d  by  the  Alumni  Association 
orcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Alumni  Association  Officers 
dent:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 
ue  presidents: 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30; 
R.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 
Secretary-  Treasurer: 
i/V.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 
Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 
R.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56; 
°ast  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.  '36; 
Executive  Committee, 
Members-at- Large: 
C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

.  Wiley,  '35; 

und  Board: 

J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 
3.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  L.  G.  Humphrey, 
lr.,  '35;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38; 

C.  Leavitt,  '34;  A.  Kalenian,  '33. 
klumni  Office  Staff 
\ssistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 
Wice  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Magazine  Secretary: 

ance  C.  Thompson; 

und  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

ecords  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter. 


Volume  73 


Summer 


Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

\e  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
)ring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
after  July  26,  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
orcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
arch  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
ar.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
umni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
stitute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


In  This  Issue 


Crisis  in  the  Suburbs  page  two 

New  York's  Mayor  Lindsay  certainly  has  more  than  his 
share  of  problems,  and  most  Americans  do  not  envy 
his  responsibilities.  However,  what  most  fail  to  realize 
is  that  time  is  running  out  for  all  of  us.  To  learn  about 
what  may  well  be  an  inevitability,  unless  we  do  some- 
thing now,  read  this  hardhitting  article. 


A  Computation  Primer  page  ten 

It  has  been  said  that  this  field  is  the  fastest-growing 
industry  in  the  country.  Those  who  fail  to  utilize  its 
capabilities  may  very  well  face  financial  ruin.  In  a 
concise  article,  Dr.  Sondak  discusses  this  newest  of 
engineering  tools. 


Commencement  Week  page  thirteen 

The  academic  year  came  to  a  close  with  Tech's  101st 
Commencement.   Commencement  weekend  was  not 
only  for  graduating  seniors,  but  also  encompassed 
eleven  reunions.  If  you  missed  the  festivities,  you  will 
enjoy  reading  about  them.  If  you  were  there,  this 
issue  will  be  a  good  reminder  for  years  to  come. 


Message  from  the  New  Association  President 

page  twenty-four 

On  the  occasion  of  his  election,  the  Alumni  Association's 
new  president,  Robert  E.  Higgs,'40,  sets  forth  his 
thoughts  for  the  coming  year.  "To  serve  the  cause  of 
higher  education  is  one  of  the  most  needed  personal 
contributions  in  the  world  today,"  he  states. 


Departments 

Undergraduate  Viewpoint 30 

Reunion  Roundup 35 

Completed  Careers 42 

Your  Class  and  Others 43 


■C9 


—«&«.  -„ . 


«*&, 


Jr*S 


*  ^*, 


rSf?>>: 


*-* 


flUfK 


3G 


*1 


ucmfHZ** 


<n  •  ""T^ife     "tfB  ^^^-  .  -       BMP 


WORLD  WIDE  PHOTOS 


"And  so  not  too  much  is  done, 
and  the  problems  worsen." 


by 

B.  Allen  Benjamin 

Professor  of  Civil  Engineering 


IT  ALL  BEGAN  IN  THE  CITIES.  Anyone  who 
has  not  spent  the  last  decade  with  his  head  in  the 
sand  is  painfully  aware  of  the  crisis  in  our  urban  centers : 
that  we  are  becoming  a  nation  of  "sick,  sick,  cities." 
New  York,  of  course,  exemplifies  the  ultimate  in  urban 
disintegration,  with  its  overwhelming  problems  of 
congestion,  noise,  ugliness,  air  pollution,  slums,  ghetto 
unemployment,  crime,  and  poor  schools.  These  same 
problems  are  with  us  in  hundreds  of  cities  throughout 
the  United  States,  and  if  their  magnitude  is  smaller 
there  than  in  New  York,  so  are  the  local  financial  and 
administrative  resources  for  dealing  with  them. 

Cities  should  be  well  on  their  way  to  robust  health, 
if  sheer  attention  could  cure,  since  prescriptions  for 
their  ills  are  turned  out  in  ever-increasing  numbers 
and  in  stupefying  detail.  "We  do  know,"  says  the 
urban  expert,  "what  is  needed  in  City  X  by  way  of 
physical  and  social  improvements,  but  we  just  don't 
have  the  money  to  pay  for  them."  While  there  may 
be  wide  local  differences  of  opinion  as  to  whose  money 
should  be  spent  (U.S.,  city,  private  enterprise,  or 
"black  capital"  dollars),  and  what  should  be  bought 
first  (highways  or  hospitals,  housing  or  schools),  almost 
all  agree  that  the  total  dollars  needed  is  very  large 
indeed — far  more  than  what  has  been  spent  on  cities 
in  the  past  (over,  a  similar  period),  and  far  more  than 
what  seems  to  be  now  available  for  spending.  And  so 
not  too  much  is  done,  and  the  problems  worsen. 

SUBURBAN  GROWTH  AND  THE  NEXT  CRISIS. 

Meanwhile,  in  vast,  sprawling  areas  on  the  fringes  of 
the  cities,  an  often  overlooked  crisis  of  potentially 
greater  scope  is  building  up.  This  "suburban  crisis" 
is  primarily  the  result  of  the  unplanned,  uncontrolled 
expansion  of  urban  development  into  formerly  vacant 


[he  Journal 


or  rural  areas.  The  outward  pushing  of  cities  with- 
draws from  agriculture,  recreation  and  other  rural 
uses  (often  prematurely)  a  total  land  area  each  year 
equal  to  one-half  the  size  of  Rhode  Island.  The  indis- 
criminate location  of  this  development  often  needlessly 
destroys  irreplaceable  natural  and  scenic  resources. 
Its  general  gravitation  toward  previously  non-urbanized 
areas  inherently  results  in  a  deficiency  of  public  facili- 
ties (sewers,  fire  stations,  parks,  good  roads,  schools, 
etc.),  and  its  discontinuous  pattern  makes  their  sub- 
sequent provision  extremely  inefficient.  Finally,  the 
over-all  physical  quality  of  this  growth  is  poor,  so  that 
even  well-designed  individual  structures  and  projects 
end  up  surrounded  by  shoddy  and  chaotic  semi-cities, 
or  development  "slurbs." 

Many  suburbs  are  beyond  improving,  while  others — 
like  the  central  cities — need  massive  expenditures  to 
correct  past  mistakes  and  deficiencies.  However 
(and  this  is  the  main  point  of  this  article),  there  are 
hundreds  of  still-developing  areas  where  something 
can  be  done,  done  now,  and  done  fairly  cheaply.  We 
can  minimize  (or  at  least  reduce)  the  cost  of  serving 
growth;  we  can  conserve  our  most  valuable  resource 
areas  and  still  have  city  expansion;  and  we  can  enhance 
the  over-all  quality  of  suburban  development:  all  by 
the  simple  and  relatively  inexpensive  device  of  com- 
prehensive regional  planning  combined  with  stringent 
regional  development  controls.  Let  us  examine  the 
elements  of  the  crisis  in  a  bit  more  detail,  considering 
first  the  quality  of  suburban  areas. 

SLEEZY  SLURBS.  A  number  of  critics  have  attacked 
suburbia — both  new  and  old — on  social  and  economic 
grounds,  indicting  the  "segregation  by  income,"  the 
"social  sterility,"  the  "political  apathy,"  and  the 
"narrow  provincialism"  which  they  see  as  common 
characteristics  of  suburban  life.  Others  rise  to  the 
defense  of  the  suburbs  as  offering  the  best  of  both  the 
city  and  the  country,  and  a  way  of  life  which,  if  tem- 
porarily out  of  reach  of  some,  is  available  to  all  when 
they  make  the  grade. 

Here,  however,  our  concern  is  with  physical  flaws  in 
suburbia.  This  is  a  matter  in  which  one  might  expect 
some  general  agreement,  for  there  are  few  individuals 
who  find  real  merit  in  sleezy  construction,  lack  of  open 
spaces,  clogged  roads,  overflowing  cesspools,  lookalike 
houses,  and  an  indiscriminate  mix  of  business,  industry, 
and  homes.  Such  conditions  exist  to  a  varying  degree 
in  almost  every  town,  with  the  possible  exception  of 
the  ultra-high-class  suburb  protected  over  the  last 
two  decades  by  large-lot.  single-residence  requirements 
and  an  unwillingness  to  sell  on  the  part  of  many  land- 
owners. 

The  quality  of  suburban  development,  in  all  its 
aspects,  can,  theoretically,  be  controlled  al   the  local 


level  by  comprehensive  zoning,  a  modern  building  code, 
and  reasonable  subdivision  regulations.  In  practice,  j 
however,  most  towns  faced  with  growth  do  not  adopt 
such  measures  until  too  late,  or  adopt  them  in  partial 
or  weak  form.  The  very  areas  where  growth  is  most 
imminent  are  the  still-rural  towns  which  do  not  yet 
see  the  need  for  control.  Why  get  excited  about  just 
a  few  converted  trailers  and  roadside  stands  along  the 
highway? 

Even  in  the  more  built-up  suburbs,  where  controls 
of  a  sort  do  exist,  zoning  is  being  used  to  make  the 
good  towns  "better"  (i.e.,  more  exclusive),  and  the 
bad  towns  worse  (i.e.,  more  permissive  of  anything, 
as  long  as  it  pays  taxes  and  doesn't  send  children  to 
the  schools).  If  it  were  not  for  their  almost  complete 
dependence  on  real  estate  taxes,  one  may  suppose  that 
even  the  latter  towns  would  like  to  say  no  occasionally. 


FAULTY  FACILITIES.  Another  major  element  of 
the  crisis  has  to  do  with  the  public  facilities  that  are 
sooner  or  later  needed  to  serve  growth  areas.  While 
many  relatively  small,  urban  projects  do  locate  on 
vacant  tracts  in  or  adjacent  to  already  built-up  sec- 
tions, larger  projects  and  economically  marginal  uses 
tend  to  gravitate  toward  the  periphery  of  the  urban- 
rural  fringe,  and  even  out  into  the  far  countryside. 
As  one  goes  away  from  the  urban  center,  land  is  easier 
to  obtain  or  assemble,  and  its  cost  per  acre  decreases. 
Thus,  closer-in  sites  are  often  left  vacant  for  years, 
passed  over  for  the  more  available,  less  expensive  sites 
in  the  hinterland.  This  "leapfrog"  process  results  in 
the  early  urbanization  of  the  very  sections  least  served 
with  full  public  facilities. 

Either  one  of  two  things  then  generally  happens; 
(1)  new  residents  and  others  in  the  scattered  develop- 
ment areas  go  for  years  with  deficient  facilities  (no 
sewers,  no  parks,  no  fire  stations,  etc.),  or  (2)  sufficient 
political  pressure  is  applied  to  obtain  the  missing  im- 
provements, at  what  ends  up  as  a  cost  to  the  general 
public  excessively  high  per  user.  This  high  cost  per 
user  results  from  a  combination  of  two  factors,  both 
working  in  the  same  direction :  The  large  underdevel- 
oped areas  remaining  between  the  projects  and  the 
already  built-up  center,  necessitate  extra  miles  of  linear 
facilities  (improved  access  roads,  water,  sewer,  and! 
other  utility  extensions,  school  bus  and  other  public! 
transportation  routes)  as  compared  with  a  close-in 
location.  For  the  district  facilities  (those  with  a  fixed 
service  area  such  as  parks,  fire  stations,  and  libraries) 
the  low  gross  density  <>f  the  scattered  projects  produced 
fewer  users  per  square  mile  to  share  the  rust. 

Local  /.oning  docs  not  help  in  this  regard,  since  it  can 
only  regulate  the  type  and  density  of  development 
when  and  as  it  occurs,  and  cannot  regulate  its  location 
Or   timing.      What    is   needed.   inaii\    believe,   is    the   re- 

I  hi:  Joi  hn  vi. 


Can  we  save  our  lakes  and  streams 


The  Journal 


gional  designation  of  growth-priority  areas,  with  urban 
development  discouraged,  or  better,  completely  pro- 
hibited in  low  priority  areas  until  the  high  priority 
ones  are  nearly  filled  up.  Thus,  urban  growth  would 
proceed  over  the  years  from  built-up  centers  outward 
in  more  or  less  contiguous  bands. 

Such  a  program  of  growth-area  priorities  would  re- 
duce short  range  costs  an  appreciable  amount.  In 
addition  to  avoiding  partially  unused  extensions  of 
linear  facilities,  and  initially  under-used  new  district 
facilities,  it  would  also  take  advantage  of  any  inherited 
capacity  in  the  major  services  of  the  built-up  core. 
Sometimes  (though  with  increased  rarity),  an  existing 
hospital,  airport,  museum,  college,  or  large  recreation 
facility  can  handle  more  users  than  it  now  serves  and 
actually  benefits  (in  lower  costs  per  user)  from  increased 
patronage. 

A  few  key  facilities,  however,  almost  always  have  to 
be  expanded  in  proportion  to  population  growth,  and 
this  need  is  independent  of  its  locational  pattern  (scat- 
tered or  contiguous).  In  such  cases,  regional  planning 
can  help  in  another  way,  and  that  is  by  recommending 
the  provision  on  a  regional  (rather  than  town  by  town) 
basis  of  all  new  facilities  for  which  there  is  an  acceptable 
economy  of  scale.  Regional  high  schools,  now  well 
accepted  in  many  jurisdictions,  are  a  case  in  point. 
Health,  water  supply,  sewage  treatment,  and  solid 
waste  disposal  facilities  are  all  being  increasingly  re- 
gionalized. As  such  facilities  come  into  existence  at 
the  regional  level,  there  will  be  even  more  need  than 
now  for  controlling  the  location  of  urban  growth,  since 
the  larger  a  facility,  the  more  likely  it  is  to  have  when 
first  built,  substantial  excess  capacity  which  can  be 
beneficially  utilized  by  additional  close-by  development. 

RUINED  RESOURCES.  The  deficiency  of  needed 
facilities  discussed  above  can  be  overcome  by  spending 
more  money  (though  as  noted,  the  amount  needed 
may  be  reduced).  However,  the  destruction  of  natural 
resources  by  improperly  located  urban  development 
is  permanent  and  irrevocable.  One  may  immediately 
say,  yes,  but  urban  development  is  the  "highest  and 
best  use  of  the  land,"  so  if  some  resources  have  to  go, 
so  be  it.  It  is  here  believed  that  through  proper  plan- 
ning and  control,  we  can  have  both  resources  and  devel- 
opment. The  present  problem  arises  from  the  pre- 
mature and  needless  destruction  of  resources  while 
other  non-resource  sites  are  still  available  for  de- 
velopment. 

One  type  of  resource  often  being  prematurely  de- 
stroyed is  good  agricultural  land.  While  our  total 
national  acreage  in  fanning  is  still  extensive,  ami  we 
arc  constantly  increasing  production,  numerous  tracts 
of  land  ideally  suited  I'm-  particular  crops  are  definitely 
limited  in  quantity.     Such  areas,  meeting  rigorous  re- 


or  will  they  end  up  like  this?! 


quirements  of  soil,  slope,  temperature  and  proximity 
to  urban  market  are  definitely  in  short  supply.  Apple 
orchard  lands  in  Massachusetts  and  walnut  groves  in 
California  are  examples  of  this  type.  The  maintenance 
of  some  farm  land  near  cities  is  also  important  to  the 
non-farmer.  It  provides  him  with  an  attractive  general 
environment,  nearby  open  space  for  hiking,  touring, 
hunting,  fishing  and  other  extensive  recreation  activi- 
ties, and  a  visual  contrast  to  acres  upon  acres  of  closely- 
packed  buildings  and  blacktop. 

A  study  made  by  the  Massachusetts  Dept.  of  Com- 
merce shortly  after  World  War  II  indicated  that  the 
entire  population  of  the  state  could  be  re-housed  on 
then-vacant  land  (within  fifteen  miles  of  the  larger 
cities  alone),  without  using  a  single  acre  devoted  to 
agriculture.  Since  that  study  was  made,  many  farms 
have  gone  under  the  bulldozer  in  Massachusetts  and 
elsewhere.  The  destruction  of  farm  land  is  even  more 
insidious  than  meets  the  eye,  for  it  is  an  accumulative 
process.  The  scattering  of  only  a  few  developments 
through  a  rural  area  tends  to  commit  that  entire  area 
to  urbanization.  This  is  because  the  farms  remaining 
between  the  scattered  projects  are  almost  at  once 
handicapped  by  having  to  pay  real  estate  taxes  on  a 
speculatively  increased  land  valuation,  and  pay  at  an 
increased  rate  as  well — to  cover  urban  services  that  the 
farmers  neither  need  nor  want. 

Another  type  of  resource  area  being  lost  to  develop- 
ment is  the  flood  plain.  Like  farm  land,  the  level 
areas  along  the  sides  of  low-gradient  streams  are  attrac- 
tive spots  for  the  builder.  Little  or  no  clearing  is 
called  for,  and  grades  are  favorable.  But  when  a 
major  flood  occurs,  both  the  occupants  and  the  general 
public  pay  deferred  costs  for  urbanizing  there:  the 
occupants,  for  their  property  damage;  the  general  pub- 
lic, for  the  flood  control  works  that  often  follow.  More- 
over, every  building  and  filling  operation  within  the 
flood  plain  increases  subsequent  flood  levels  down- 
stream. 

These  natural  flood  water  storage  areas  should,  it  is 
believed,  either  be  kept  entirely  free  of  development,  or 
if  utilized,  only  occupied  by  non-structural  uses  such 
as  parking  lots  and  golf  courses.  A  special  type  of 
zoning  by  cities  and  towns,  known  as  "flood  plain 
zoning,"  is  authorized  in  most  states,  but  as  in  Massa- 
chusetts (where  less  than  a  dozen  communities  have 
chosen  to  adopt  it),  the  typical  community  ignores 
floods  areas,  and  permits  them  to  be  developed  when- 
ever the  owners  wish.  Even  worse,  the  typical  com- 
munity designates  such  areas  in  its  regular  zoning 
ordinance  a.s  "residence,"  "business,"  or  "industry  " 
This  not  only  misleads  the  public  as  to  the  suitability 
of  development  there,  but  is  a  positive  invitation  for 
such  use.     Again,  planning  and  development   control 

8 


on  a  regional  basis  could  step  in  where  cities  and  towns 
fear  to  tread. 

Wetlands  are  also  rapidly  disappearing.  Not  many 
years  ago,  a  swamp  or  marsh  was  considered  as  "waste- 
land" where  any  development  at  all  would  be  an  im- 
provement. This  may  still  be  the  right  view  in  the 
case  of  small  wet  areas  already  surrounded  by  urbaniza- 
tion and  filled  with  junked  cars  and  floating  beer  cans. 
However,  ecologists  now  recognize  that  many  larger 
marshes  and  swamps  have  high  natural  resource  value 
and  should  be  kept  permanently  open. 


Such  wetlands  provide  shelter  and  food  for  wild 
life,  and  sites  for  limited  recreation:  hunting,  nature 
study,  and  the  like.  Often,  they  are  of  economic  value 
in  commercial  trapping  and  fishing,  the  latter  especially 
along  the  edges  of  lakes  and  by  the  seacoast  where  they 
produce  the  food  on  which  the  nearby  fish  population 
depends.  Although  a  less  fully  understood  function, 
many  wetlands  are  also  considered  to  be  ground- 
water recharge  areas,  the  maintenance  of  which  in 
an  open  state  may  be  vital  to  the  long-range  continua- 
tion of  our  public  water  supplies. 

Except  in  Massachusetts  (which  led  the  nation  in 
adopting  laws  to  regulate,  statewide,  both  inland  and 
coastal  wetlands),  wetland  areas  are  generally  un- 
protected. Flood  plain  zoning,  referred  to  above,  is  not 
applicable  unless  the  area  is  also  "subject  to  frequent 
and  periodic  flooding,"  and  regular  zoning,  as  already 
noted,  may  not  be  used — in  its  present  form — to  pre- 
vent development.  Thus,  over-all  regional  protection 
seems  necessary. 

Areas  of  scenic  value  are  another  type  of  resource 
fast  disappearing  with  growth.  Although  many  out- 
standingly beautiful  sites  are  protected  by  inclusion 
in  national,  state,  county,  city  or  semi-public  parks  and 
reservations,  most  of  our  still  attractive  countryside 
remains  in  private  hands.  Year-round  residents  often 
pick  a  community  in  which  to  live  because  of  its  appear- 
ance, or  at  least  the  appearance  of  its  surroundings. 
Vacation  home  owners  locate  their  seasonal  dwellings 
in  what  they  consider  to  be  an  attractive  area.  The, 
multi-million-dollar  tourist  industry  is  built  on  "See 
beautiful  so-and-so."  All,  if  they  think  about  it,  are 
relying  on  the  indefinite  continuation  of  the  visual 
attractions  of  their  area. 

But  things  are  changing  fast.  With  more  time  to 
travel,  more  money  to  spend,  more  people  on  the 
move,  and  express  highways  leading  everywhere,  even 
the  most  remote  sections  are  vulnerable  to  some  sort 
of  development.  Often  this  follows  the  roads  and 
secondary  highways  (if  not  the  expressways,  with 
their  limited  access),  so  that  although  back  land  is 
still    open,    the    motorist     is    given    the    impression    of 

general   urbanization.     Roadside  development   is  not 

I'iik  Journal 


only  linear,  but  spasmodic,  so  that  mile  after  mile 
of  frontage  is  prematurely  changed  in  character  from 
rural  to  developed,  even  though  vacant  frontage 
intervenes. 

In  vacation  areas,  so  many  tourist  facilities,  mixed 
with  signs  announcing  others  ahead,  have  sprung  up 
along  the  roadside  one  wonders  how  long  it  will  be 
before  the  vacationers  themselves  will  be  repelled  by 
the  very  facilities  intended  to  serve  them.  Closer  to 
home,  in  suburbia  proper,  one  suburb  appears  to  be 
merging  into  another,  as  the  natural  greenbelts  sepa- 
rating them  are  invaded  by  building  along  the  length 
sf  every  connecting  artery. 

Again,  it  is  not  a  matter  of  development  vs.  no 
development,  but  rather  "a  place  for  everything  and 
everything  in  its  place."  Due  to  the  geographic  scale 
}f  roadside  development,  its  independence  of  political 
Doundaries,  the  failure  of  many  towns  and  cities  to 
ict,  and  the  basic  lack  of  really  effective  local  zoning, 
t  would  seem  that  regional  planning  and  control  is 
jnce  more  the  answer. 

TIME  FOR  A   CHANGE?     The  word  "control"  is 
i  dirty  word  to  many,  even  when  it  is  limited  to  "de- 
velopment control."    Yet,  at  the  local  level,  we  accept 
and  even  welcome  zoning  regulations  of  sorts  when 
they  "protect"  our  own  property  against  a  threatened 
liise  in  the  neighborhood  that  we  don't  want.    We  also 
Iprotest   when   the   open   field   in   which   our  children 
liave  played  (but  which  belongs  to  someone  else)  is 
up  for  development,  and  we  find  that  neither  zoning 
kor  subdivision   regulations  can   keep  it  open.     The 
jword  "regional"  also  may  stir  people  up,  for  by  its 
fcrery  nature  it  means  some  loss  of  local  autonomy. 
Suburbanites  as  a  group  not  only  want  no  part  of  the 
bentral  city  (though  there  are  notable  exceptions),  but 
Iso  want  no  part  of  other  suburbs,  especially  those 
hat  have  not  been  as  careful  as  theirs  in  the  way  past 
b'owth  was   handled.     This   independent  attitude   is 
rotected  and  encouraged  by  arbitrary  political  bound- 
ries,  nostalgic  town  meeting  government,  and  a  tax 
Dolicy  which  promotes  intense  competition  with  other 
towns  to  bring  in  high  value  industry,  and  to  keep 
Dut  low  value  housing. 

But  perhaps  it  is  time  for  a  change.  With  our 
tremendous  mobility,  our  "home"  is  more  and  more  our 
region  (and  not  just  Town  X).  Whenever  we  cross 
town  boundaries  into  less  advantaged  other  suburbs 
and  rural  areas,  we  are  almost  as  bothered  (and  some- 
;imes,  endangered)  by  congestion,  noise,  pollution,  and 
Tther  deficiencies  encountered  there  as  are  the  area's 
Dwn  residents — at  least  momentarily  so.  And  when- 
ever we  pay,  through  State  and  Federal  taxes,  toward 
'equalizing"  the  general  level  of  school,  public  health, 
welfare,    transportation,    recreation    and    other   public 

The  Journal 


"Many  suburbs  are  beyond 
improving,  while  others  .  . 
need  massive  expenditures 
to  correct  past  mistakes 
and  deficiencies." 


services,  we  are  in  another  way  affected  by  the  in- 
adequacies of  other  parts.  Isn't  it  time,  therefore,  to 
insist  on  some  over-all  "quality  control" — to  have  some 
say  as  to  how  other  communities  develop,  and  how  our 
entire  region  grows? 

THE  SUGGESTED  REMEDY.  The  first  part  of 
the  remedy  herein  suggested — regional  planning — is 
already  increasingly  available.  Massachusetts  is  one 
state  where  the  entire  land  area  is  subject  to  planning 
by  existing  regional  agencies.  But  short  of  making 
recommendations  and  reviewing  certain  applications 
for  Federal  grants,  most  planning  agencies  are  power- 
less. Let  us  give  these  agencies  the  second,  and  most 
important  part  of  the  remedy  for  chaotic  growth — over- 
all, regional  control  of  all  future  urban  development. 

Development  control  regulations  would  be  some- 
what like  local  zoning  regulations  applied  at  the  re- 
gional level,  but,  unlike  local  zoning,  would  include 
non-development  districts  and  growth-priority  areas. 
In  growth  areas,  permitted  types  of  use  and  average 
gross  density  would  be  set,  leaving  to  local  ordinances 
the  specification  of  net  densities,  building  heights,  yard 
requirements,  and  other  details. 

Perhaps  other  remedies  are  also  possible,  but  time  is 
short,  and  each  day  another  1000  acres  becomes  the 
city  of  the  future;  each  day,  more  farms,  flood  plains, 
wetlands,  and  scenic  areas  are  lost  forever;  each  day, 
more  urban  sprawl,  much  of  it  shoddy,  covers  the  land. 
It  is  the  technology  we  have  created  that  facilitates 
this  change,  so  perhaps  we  do  have  an  obligation  to 
deal  with  its  consequences.  Among  the  responsible 
causes  are  our  ability  to  travel  long  distances  between 
home  and  work  (and  still  longer  on  vacation),  to  easily 
alter  the  shape  of  the  earth,  and  to  erect  rapidly  and 
cheaply  innumerable  structures  thereon.  While  inside 
these  structures — be  they  homes,  businesses  or  in- 
dustries— there  is  remarkable  efficiency,  order,  and 
good  planning;  outside,  extravagance,  disorder  and 
destruction  still  reign.  Let  us  now  plan  and  improve 
our  man-made  environment  on  a  grander  scale. 


A  Computation  Primer 


The  computer  has  become  the 
universal  symbol  of  our  modern 
technology.  If  a  product  or  service 
is  to  be  considered  efficient  and  up 
to  date,  it  is  somehow  associated 
with  a  computer.  Yet,  for  all  prac- 
tical purposes,  electronic  digital 
computers  are  less  than  20  years 
old,  with  the  real  propagation  of 
computer  installations  occurring  in 
only  the  last  ten  years.  Why  has 
this  happened?  Is  it  a  transient 
effect  or  are  we  only  at  the  begin- 
ning of  a  really  steep  growth  curve 
for  computers  development?  In 
point  of  fact,  the  report  of  the  Sci- 
entific Advisory  Committee  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States 
maintains  that  the  use  of  computers 
and  the  discipline  of  Computer 
Science  are  just  entering  into  their 
infancy  after  a  period  of  develop- 
ment unparalleled  in  the  history  of 
technology.  In  order  to  understand 
what  has  happened  and  to  gain 
some  insight  into  what  might  hap- 
pen, we  must  define  Computer 
Science  and  examine  the  broad  use 
of  computing  equipment. 

Computer  Science  is  the  study  of 
the  fundamental  nature  of  informa- 
tion, how  it  can  be  processed,  stored, 
retrieved,  transmitted,  and  dis- 
played for  use  by  both  humans  and 
machines.  It  covers  the  design  and 
control  of  the  devices  that  handle 
information,  their  basic  elements, 
and  how  they  can  be  organized  into 
the  most  efficient  processing  system. 
It    treats    the    solution    of    a    wide 

10 


by 

Dr.  Norman  E.  Sondak 

Professor  of  Computer  Science 


variety  of  problems  with  support 
of  non-human  intellectual  amplifica- 
tion. It  is,  therefore,  intimately 
involved  with  almost  every  facet 
of  human  endeavor  and  as  a  dis- 
cipline it  could  not  exist  without 
the  advent  of  the  high  speed  digital 
computer. 

Historically,  computing  and  the 
use  of  the  computer  has  developed 
in  three  major  areas.  These  are 
scientific,  commercial,  and  process 
control  applications.  The  com- 
puter, because  of  its  high  arith- 
metic and  logical  speeds,  can  handle 
scientific  problems  that  otherwise 
are  intractable.  The  IBM  360 
Model  40  Computer  at  the  Com- 
putation Center  at  Tech  can  per- 
form over  6,000,000  additions  or 
compare  over  3,000,000  different 
five-character  strings  in  one  minute, 
and  there  are  a  number  of  faster 
machines  than  the  360  Model  40 
available.  Even  with  this  speed, 
problems  handled  by  junior  and 
senior  students  have  required  over 
a  half-hour  to  process.  Graduate 
and  research  work  has  used  hours 
of  computer  time  for  single  runs. 

But  there  are  still  thousands  of 
jobs  performed  which  execute  in 
seconds.  The  great  bulk  of  these 
short  runs  are  of  a  test  or  experi- 
mental nature  to  try  out  a  program 
or  prove  a  concept.  In  this  work, 
the  computer  user  attempts  to 
interact  directly  with  the  computer 
to  solve  a  particular  problem.  The 
trouble   is,  however,   that    the   ma- 


jority of  current  computers  are 
organized  to  operate  most  efficiently 
in  what  is  called  the  batch  mode. 
That  is,  a  number  of  like  jobs  are 
collected  (batched)  and  performed 
in  sequence  and  when  the  batch  is 
exhausted  the  computer  is  set  up 
to  perform  another  function.  This 
creates  a  turnaround  time  problem 
for  the  user  of  the  computer.  He 
may  have  to  wait  minutes,  hours,  or 
even  days  for  results  of  runs  that 
took  seconds  to  be  completed  be- 
cause of  the  schedule  set  up  for  use 
of  the  equipment.  The  batch 
mode  is  efficient  for  machine  utili- 
zation but  can  be  very  wasteful  of 
the  human  resource. 

The  scientist  or  engineer,  be  he 
a  student,  professional,  or  scholar, 
would  like  response  from  the  com- 
puter in  the  same  time  order  asl 
the  problem  posed.  If  the  work 
took  a  second,  the  answer  should 
be  available  in  seconds,  if  a  minute 
was  required,  then  minutes  could 
elapse  for  a  reply  and  so  on.  The 
trend  for  computer  systems  will  be 
in  the  direction  of  so-called  time 
shared  direct  response  computer 
resources,  and  the  effect  will  be 
profound.  The  scientist  and  en 
gineer  will  make  much  greater  use 
of  the  computer  because  this  power 
will  be  accessible  and  convenient 
both  in  terms  of  rapid  response  to 
problems  from  the  computer  and 
geographical  availability  from  com- 
puter terminal  devices  that  are  lo- 
cated mar  or  in  his  working  area. 

The  Journal 


And  some 
people  still  use 
an  abacus/ 


This  proper  use  of  the  computer 
will  allow  many  scientists  to  assess 
the  system  and  give  them  the  im- 
pression they  have  the  exclusive 
use  of  the  equipment.  In  reality, 
jthe  computer  is  performing  the 
shorter  tasks  rapidly  and  returning 
these  results,  while  the  longer  jobs 
are  simultaneously  being  processed. 
In  addition,  the  means  by  which 
a  scientific  problem  can  be  de- 
scribed to  the  computer  is  becoming 
simpler  and  more  direct  for  the 
human  user.  The  earliest  example 
of  this  was  the  development  of 
the  FORTRAN  or  the  FORmula 
RANslater  language  for  program- 
ling  scientific  problems.  Now 
here  are  a  multiplicity  of  languages 
nd  packages  available  to  handle 
oth  special  and  general  engineer- 
ng  situations.  Examples  of  these 
roblem-oriented  languages  are 
PSS  (General  Purpose  Simulation 
System)  and  CSMP  (Continuous 
System  Modeling  Program)  which 
(are  being  used  by  the  Mechanical 
Engineering  Department  and  others 
in  their  research  and  education 
activities  and  ICES  (Integrated 
Civil  Engineering  System)  which 
is  extensively  utilized  by  the  Civil 
Engineering  Department.  It  has 
been  estimated  that  there  have 
been  almost  1,000  different  com- 
puter languages  established  in  the 
[ast  15  years.  While  these  lan- 
guages and  programs  are  often  of 
real  benefit  to  the  user,  they  also 
demand  extensive  computer  re- 
sources for  their  maintenance  and 
sxecution  so  that  the  basic  com- 
puter needed  to  support  education 
and  research  activities  is  far  more 
sophisticated  than  was  required 
even  two  years  ago. 

The  Journal 


The  commercial  and  adminis- 
trative use  of  the  computer  has 
shown  the  same  type  of  expansion 
as  was  found  in  the  scientific  area. 
In  this  case,  the  computer  found 
its  initial  utilization  because  of  its 
ability  to  handle  and  process  large 
volumes  of  information.  Again,  the 
IBM  360/40  Computer  at  the  Com- 
putation Center  can  read  cards  at 
the  rate  of  approximately  1,000  per 
minute,  and  print  over  1,000  lines 
of  132  characters  of  information  at 
the  same  time.  Tremendous  vol- 
umes of  information  may  be  stored 
compactly  on  magnetic  tape  or 
magnetic  disks  and  can  be  read  and 
written  at  even  faster  rates.  The 
four  2311  Disk  Drives  attached  to 
the  computer  at  the  Center  are 
capable  of  transferring  information 
at  the  rate  of  135,000  bytes  per 
second.  A  byte  is  a  term  used  to 
connote  a  unit  of  information  con- 
taining   eight    binary    digits.       It 


can  be  used  to  describe  a  full  range 
of  special,  alphabetical  and  numer- 
ical characters.  There  are  currently 
available  a  broad  range  of  input 
and  output  devices  for  computer 
which  can  perform  information 
transfer  between  media,  some  of 
these  at  substantially  higher  rates 
than  those  devices  now  used  at  the 
Computation  Center.  All  of  this 
means  that  records  that  might  have 
taken  weeks  of  intensive  manual 
effort  can  be  processed  at  a  higher 
degree  of  accuracy  and  at  a  much 
lower  cost  on  a  computer  in  a 
matter  of  minutes  or  hours. 

Almost  any  type  of  commercial 
processing  activity  is  now  suscep- 
tible to  the  computer  process.  For 
example,  the  entire  student  record 
processing,  not  only  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  but  for  eight 
other  area  colleges,  is  now  being 
done  at  the  Computation  Center 
during  periods  when  the  computer 

11 


is  not  otherwise  being  utilized  for 
research  or  educational  activities 
and  the  records  are  stored  on  only 
a  few  reels  of  magnetic  tape. 

Like  the  scientist,  the  adminis- 
trative or  management  information 
programmer  is  equipped  with  power- 
ful languages  to  describe  the  prob- 
lems facing  him. 

The  most  significant  of  these 
languages  is  COBOL,  the  COmmon 
Business  Oriented  Language,  for 
programming  administrative  prob- 
lems. Since  these  management 
problems  must  cope  with  a  wide 
variety  of  data  formats,  and  handle 
a  number  of  different  types  of 
records  and  files,  the  COBOL  lan- 
guage is  even  more  complicated 
from  a  Computer  Science  point  of 
view  than  the  Fortran  used  in 
scientific  processing.  Because  of 
this,  COBOL  requires  a  larger  and 
more  powerful  computer.  The  CO- 
BOL language  was  used  exclusively 
in  developing  the  Student  Record 
Systems  and  significantly  reduced 
the  effort  to  make  the  system 
functional. 

The  evolution  in  the  area  of  busi- 
ness has  been  towards  the  develop- 
ment of  integrated  information  sys- 
tems. The  concept  behind  these 
systems  is  to  minimize  the  amount 
of  essential  data  that  has  to  be 
processed  and  handled  by  human 
beings  and  to  maximize  accuracy, 
efficiency  and  timeliness  in  reports 
generated  by  the  computing  system. 

In  order  to  do  this,  the  system 
must  be  properly  designed.  The 
technique  of  design  is  within  the 
discipline  of  Computer  Science  but 
the  same  care  and  attention  to 
detail  are  required  here  as  with 
any  engineering  project. 

The  manager,  and  in  some  re- 
spects we  are  all  managers,  still 
demands  from  the  computer  com- 
plex the  same  characteristics  that 
the  scientist  needed — convenience 
in  response  time  and  location.  Re- 
sponse time  to  obtain  the  informa- 
tion needed  for  action  while  the 
action   can   be  appropriately   made 


and  physical  proximity  to  terminals 
to  allow  convenient  use  of  the 
information  are  now  recognized  as 
key  parts  of  a  Management  In- 
formation System. 

Since  the  manager  deals  with 
large  quantities  of  data,  this  data 
must  be  stored  in  a  unit  which  is 
accessible  to  the  computer.  The 
early  '60's  saw  the  beginnings  of 
low  cost  bulk  random  access  storage 
devices  and  this  development  con- 
tinues to  be  vigorous.  Computers 
with  hundreds  of  millions  of  bytes 
of  storage  directly  available  to 
the  computer  are  now  common. 
The  future  management  oriented 
computer  complex  will  have  power- 
ful input/output  unit  time  sharing 
capabilities  and  large  scale  direct 
access  files. 

The  third  major  area  of  the  use 
of  the  computer  has  been  in  process 
control.  Here,  both  analog  and 
digital  computers  are  finding  usage. 
Typical  of  this  type  of  system  is 
the  EAI  680  analog  and  PDP-7 
digital  computer  complex  used  by 
the  Electrical  Engineering  Depart- 
ment. The  system,  a  powerful 
hybrid  computer  complex,  is  used 
for  educational  and  research  ac- 
tivities. 

The  type  of  system  has  the  capa- 
bility of  handling  analog  data 
generated  by  sensing  elements,  an- 
alyzing it  and  sending  out  appro- 
priate response  to  control  units  all 
within  a  small  time  increment. 
Real  time  computers  like  these 
actually  operate  in  the  thousandth 
of  a  second  (millisecond)  time  range 
allowing  large  dynamic  physical 
systems  to  be  controlled. 

Chemical  plants  and  electrical 
power  generator  units  as  well  as  a 
number  of  military  space  vehicles 
and  complexes  have  already  come 
under  such  real  time  computer 
control. 

It  is  clear  thai  in  the  future, 
computer  usage  supported  by  the 
appropriate  development  of  Com- 
puter Science  will  lend  to  merge  all 


these  various  application  areas. 
The  scientist  and  engineer  is  more 
and  more  often  dealing  with  prob- 
lems that  generate  large  amounts 
of  complicated  data  requiring  ex- 
tensive files.  He  will  also  demand 
not  only  a  numerical  and  logical 
ability  of  the  computer,  but  suffi- 
cient input  and  output  ability  to 
cope  with  these  files.  In  addition, 
he  would  like  to,  if  possible,  have 
the  data  logged  directly  from  his 
experiments  into  the  computer. 

This  indicates  the  computer  of 
the  near  future  will  operate  in  a 
time  shared  mode,  have  powerful 
arithmetic  and  logical  capabilities, 
wide  band  input/output  channels, 
large  scale  direct  access  storage  and 
analog  resources.  In  addition,  it 
will  be  supported  with  both  general 
purpose  programming  languages  and 
specialized  problem  oriented  pack- 
ages. It  will  require  professionally 
educated  personnel  to  support  and 
operate  it  successfully.  These  men 
and  women  must  be  supplied  by 
our  colleges  and  universities. 

Recognizing  this  need  for  both 
the  training  of  engineers  and  sci- 
entists in  the  use  of  computers  as 
well  as  professional  computer  sci- 
entists, Worcester  Tech  has  re- 
cently initiated  two  programs;  a 
graduate  program  leading  to  a 
Master's  degree  in  Computer  Sci- 
ence and  a  required  Freshman 
course  and  elective.  Future  de- 
mands will  properly  require  a  sig- 
nificant expansion  in  offices  in 
Computer  Science.  In  addition, 
twenty  per  cent  of  the  courses  at 
Tech  are  now  using  the  computer 
as  a  normal  part  of  the  work.  In 
the  Mechanical  Engineering  De- 
partment this  figure  is  about  thirty- 
seven  per  cent.  In  the  future,  it  is 
expected  that  the  majority  of  all 
courses  will  use  the  computer  rou- 
tinely as  part  of  the  educational 
experience.  In  fact,  the  futures  of 
the  computer,  engineering,  and  cn- 
ginccring  education  arc  closely  en- 
twined and  brighter  because  ol 
each  other. 


12 


I'm:  Jen  n\  w. 


Commencement  Week 


The  Journal 


13 


I 


14 


The  week  preceding  Commence- 
ment Sunday  was  marked  by  i 
sudden  stillness.  Seniors  disap- 
peared for  a  week  of  recreation  be- 
fore returning  to  receive  the  degree* 
for  which  they  had  worked  so  hai^ 
Occasionally  an  underclassman  m 
with  slide  rule  in  hand  to  a  fin*' 
exam. 

For  the  seniors,  all  was  over  brt 
the  formality  of  graduating:  for  tkr 
faculty  and  administration,  tk 
work  had  just  begun.  There  wer 
many  plans  to  be  made  for  the  loaf 

I  uy  Jour> a 


"And  do  you  remember  the  time 

Coombsie  said  ..." 


JOOt>AH 


15 


weekend  which  would  not  only  in- 
clude commencement,  but  the  re- 
union of  eleven  classes. 

The  long  weekend  actually  started 
on  Thursday  as  alumni  started  ar- 
riving in  anticipation  of  greeting 
classmates  and  viewing  the  physical 
plant  which  holds  something  new 
on  every  visit. 

On  Friday,  it  became  very  evi- 
dent that  there  was  going  to  be  a 
large  turnout  as  Daniels  Hall  began 
to  fill  with  alumni  from  all  across 
the  country.  After  arrival  many 
had  just  enough  time  to  prepare 
for  nine  reunion  dinners  scheduled 
that  night.  Whether  the  reunion 
was  large  or  small,  all  enjoyed  the 
memories  as  only  alumni  can. 

Reunion  Day 

Saturday,  June  7,  the  on-campus 
activity  began  with  breakfast  and 
registration  at  Morgan  Hall.  It 
was  a  beautiful  day,  and  the  re- 
union continued  over  coffee  on  the 
quadrangle  as  alumni  who  arrived 
late  had  a  chance  to  find  their  re- 
spective classmates.  During  coffee, 
the  50- Year  Associates  met  and 
elected  George  R.  Rich,  '19,  their 
new  president.  It  was  the  second 
such  honor  for  George,  as  he  had 
been  elected  president  of  his  class 
on  the  previous  evening. 

Class  pictures  were  then  taken 
prior  to  the  luncheon.  It  was  inter- 
esting to  note  that  the  class  of  '29 
had  discarded  their  hats  and  canes 
and  wore  large  (six-inch)  lapel 
buttons  with  their  year  in  large 
numerals.  After  pictures,  all  as- 
sembled in  Morgan  Hall  for  the 
annual  reunion  luncheon  which 
would  conclude  the  formal  activities 
for  the  day. 

The  invocation  was  given  by 
Herbert  M.  Carleton,  '08,  and  the 
luncheon  was  served.  After  his 
opening  remarks,  Robert  E.  Higgs, 
'40,  newly-elected  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  introduced 
President  Storko. 

This  was  the  last  address  that 
President  Storke  would  make  to  the 

16 


Alumni  Association  due  to  his  re- 
tirement in  July.  He  discussed  the 
college  in  general,  referring  to  the 
large  incoming  freshman  class  and 
the  new  Stoddard  Residential  Center 
set  for  completion  in  1970.  He 
spoke  of  the  rise  in  female  enroll- 
ment, of  the  progress  of  the  plan- 
ning group  and  planning  day,  and 
he  announced  the  decision  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees  to  make  R.O.T.C. 
completely  voluntary.  He  took  this 
opportunity  to  look  back  on  his 
seven  years  of  service  at  Tech  and 
thanked  the  Alumni  Association  for 
their  continued  support. 

The  annual  Alumni  Meeting  was 
then  held.  Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42, 
submitted  the  Secretary -Treasurer's 
Report,  which  was  duly  made, 
seconded,  and  accepted.  There  be- 
ing no  further  business,  President 
Higgs  adjourned  the  meeting,  and 
the  presentation  of  awards  followed. 

First  of  the  presentations  was  the 
50-year  diplomas  by  President  Harry 
P.  Storke  and  Dean  Martin  C.  Van 
de  Visse. 

Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32, 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
presented  the  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award  for  Professional  Achievement 
to  Walter  B.  Dennen,  '18,  Michael 
C.  Sodano,  '31,  and  John  L.  Brown, 
Jr.,  '46. 

The  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  was 
then  presented  to  Daniel  F.  O'Grady, 
'30,  for  Distinguished  Service  to  the 
Institute.  President  Robert  E. 
Higgs  made  the  presentation. 

Next  on  the  program  were  the 
class  messages.  Class  Gift  Chair- 
man Robert  C.  Sessions,  '19,  repre- 
sented his  class,  which  donated  over 
$70,000  to  the  Institute.  The  Class 
of  1944  was  represented  by  Irving 
James  Donahue,  Jr.  The  25-year 
class  donated  $4,000  for  use  in  the 
George  C.  Gordon  Library.  The 
graduating  class,  represented  by 
class  treasurer  James  Atkinson, 
donated  S 1  <>(i  to  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion and  $500  to  the  school  for  the 
improvement  i>f  the  quadrangle. 

Warren    15.  Zepp,  '42,  then  pre- 


sented the  Class  of  1917  Attendance 
Cup  to  the  Class  of  1919  for  best 
attendance  on  a  percentage  basis. 

Congratulations  to  six  of  our  j 
alumni  who  travelled  over  3,000 
miles  to  attend  their  respective  re- 
unions. There  were  five  who  came  ' 
from  California :  Jacob  J.  Hagopian, 
'39,  John  W.  Hughes,  '39,  Frans  E. 
Strandberg,  '39,  Richard  B.  Wilson, 
'39,  and  Richard  Walberg,  '23.  One 
alumnus,  Michael  C.  Sodano,  '31, 
traveled  to  Worcester  from  Yoko- 
hama, Japan. 

The  formal  activities  then  closed 
with  the  singing  of  the  Alma  Mater, 
and  the  Benediction  given  by 
Herbert  M.  Carleton,  '08. 

For  many,  the  day  was  not  over. 
Several  attended  the  R.O.T.C. 
Commissioning  Ceremonies  held  in 
Alden  Memorial  Auditorium.  Brig- 
adier General  Bernard  W.  Rogers, 
Commandant  of  Cadets  at  West 
Point,  presented  commissions  to  27 
new  second  lieutenants. 

There  were  still  two  reunion 
dinners  scheduled  for  Saturday 
night.  The  25-year  class  held  its 
dinner  at  the  Franklin  Manor.  The 
40-year  class,  which  met  at  the 
Publick  House  in  Sturbridge,  was 
fortunate  to  have  Prof.  Kenneth  G. 
Merriam,  MS  '35,  speak  at  its  re- 
union. Prof.  Merriam,  who  had  also 
spoken  at  '29's  tenth  reunion. 
helped  bring  back  many  fond  memo- 
ries of  faculty  and  the  aero  option 
which  was  the  theme  of  the  reunion. 

These  two  reunions  marked  the 
end  of  all  organized  alumni  activi- 
ties. Still,  many  alumni  remained 
to  watch  the  Commencement  cere- 
monies and  welcome  the  new  alumni 
into  the  Association.  The  end  of 
the  alumni  activities,  which  marked 
the  beginning  of  graduation  activi- 
ties, marked  only  the  end  of  tangible 
meetings.  All  who  came  to  the  Re- 
union left  with  a  belter  feeling — a 
feeling  of  renewed  friendships  and 
fond    memories   they   again    realized 

would  never  be  forgot  ten. 

Saturday  evening  marked  the 
beginning  of  ( 'ommcncemenl  aelivi 

I  iik  Journal 


Table  hopping 
was  a  common 
occurrence 


17 


Traditions  will 
never  be  broken. 
Pomp  and  Circumstance 
and  dignity  will  always 
be  characteristic 
of  Graduation. 


18 


ties  as  members  of  the  senior  class 
gathered  at  the  Yankee  Drummer 
for  the  annual  semi-formal  dinner 
dance.  Bob  Nelson  and  his  Orches- 
tra provided  the  music. 

Sunday,  June  8,  was  the  day  that 
270  eager  seniors  had  been  awaiting 
for  what  seemed  at  the  time  forever, 
but  now  looking  back  seemed  very 
short.  This  was  the  day  when  sen- 
iors were  proud  but  parents  were 
more  proud.  It  was  a  time  for 
pomp  and  circumstance.  It  was  the 
culmination  of  four  short  but  most 
important  years. 

Baccalaureate 

The  day's  activities  started  the 
way  in  which  they  should,  with 
Baccalaureate  Services  held  in  Alden 
Memorial  Hall  at  10:00  a.m.  The 
Baccalaureate  Sermon  was  delivered 
by  Rev.  Timothy  J.  Harrington, 
auxiliary  bishop  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Diocese  of  Worcester. 

Bishop  Harrington  opened  his 
sermon  by  noting  the  great  advances 
made  by  man  and  particularly  the 
United  States  in  the  past  genera- 
tion. He  then  turned  to  one  of  the 
largest  problems  facing  the  U.S.  and 
the  world  today — poverty. 

He  stated.  "We  have  islands  of 
affluence  owned  by  a  minority  of 
the  world  and  vast  seas  of  poverty, 
misery  and  hunger  surrounding 
these  small  islands  of  wealth." 

He  continued  describing  the  con- 
ditions nniler  which  the  poverty- 
Tin-:  Journal 


stricken  live  and  then  stated,  "But 
I  the  worst  thing  of  all  is  that  they 
\  live  without  hope,  yes,  hope.  Pov- 
i  erty  is  a  corroding  acid  that  attacks 
I  the  human  spirit." 

"There  is  a  world  of  difference 

I  between  being  poor  and  being  broke. 

Spiritual    bankruptcy    rather    than 

material  bankruptcy  seems  a  source 

of  the  many  great  social  maladies 

of   our  times,"   he   added.      "It   is 

I  easier,    to    be    sure,    to    give    the 

i  ragged  man  a  dime  than  to  give  him 

<  hope,  opportunity  or  the  beginnings 

of  a  new  life.     We  make  a  grave 

i  mistake  if  we  define  man  as  poverty- 

1  stricken   only  in   terms   of  dollars. 

j  There  is  much  more  to  it.     Still, 

I  we  tend  to  take  the  money  approach. 

jWe  dress  his  body  free  of  charge, 

i  but  we  forget  his  heart.     We  end 

I  the  hunger  in  his  stomach  free  of 

charge  but  we  forget  his  hunger  for 

1  security,  for  peace,  for  dignity." 

He    concluded    by    charging   the 

[senior  class  to  become  a  part  of  this 

i  critical  phase  in  American  history. 

"You    graduates    of    1969,    your 

I  brothers  who  are  poor  are  waiting 

for  you.    Don't  forget  them  !" 

The  Journal 


Graduation 

The  high  point  of  Commencement 
arrived  as  the  faculty  donned  their 
brightly-colored  academic  hoods  and 
led  the  procession  into  Harrington 
Auditorium.  Dean  Richard  F. 
Morton,  Marshal,  and  Prof.  William 
R.  Grogan,  '46,  Honorary  Marshal, 
led  the  procession.  After  the  in- 
vocation, given  by  Rev.  Dr.  Wallace 
W.  Robbins,  and  the  National  An- 
them, President  Harry  P.  Storke  in- 
troduced Gov.  Daniel  J.  Evans  of 
Washington,  who  delivered  the 
principal  address. 

Gov.  Evans  urged  the  graduates: 
"Instead  of  manning  the  barricades 
on  our  campuses,  go  into  the  streets 
and  use  your  educational  skills  to 
make  education  work  on  the  fester- 
ing problems  of  our  20th  century 
America. 

"There  is  where  you  are  needed," 
said  Evans.  "This  is  where  America 
cries  for  help.  This  is  where  the 
action  is." 

Keynote  speaker  at  last  year's 
Republican  National  Convention, 
the  43-year-old  Evans  said  educa- 
tion must  end  the  danger  of  "intel- 


lectual isolationism"  by  joining  busi- 
ness and  government  to  find  "com- 
mon ground"  to  correct  failures 
"which  are  everywhere  apparent"  in 
America. 

"Whether  we  succeed  or  fail  is 
largely  up  to  you,"  Evans  told  the 
graduates,  adding,  "If  you  do  choose 
to  'opt  out' — to  become  the  genera- 
tion with  a  cause  but  with  no  com- 
mitment— then  I  believe  this  nation 
is  in  deep  trouble. 

"But,  if  you  take  your  cause 
into  society — and  not  out  of  it; 
if  you  display  the  same  courage  in 
positive  action  as  you  have  shown 
in  dissent,  then  I  believe  this  nation 
can  hope  once  again. 

"Let  the  students  and  the  gradu- 
ate students  of  architecture  work 
on  the  real  problems  of  our  urban 
community  while  they  are  in  school, 
rather  than  the  sterile  theoretical 
projects  of  an  academic  Valhalla. 

"Let  the  engineers  help  to  re- 
build ;  let  the  medical  students  help 
to  devise  a  new  delivery  system 
which  will  bring  adequate  health 
care  to  urban  poor. 

19 


"Let  the  great  liberal  arts  tra- 
dition be  used  to  bring  new  light 
and  understanding  and  hope  to  the 
faceless  and  nameless  dwellers  of  our 
shameful  slums. 

"Above  all,"  added  Evans,  "what- 
ever else  it  does,  this  generation 
should  continue  to  be  the  conscience 
of  the  nation." 

Evans  charged  colleges  and  uni- 
versities today  are  "in  danger  of 
intellectual  isolationism — a  retreat 
from  the  world  of  reality  into  an 
academic  ivory  tower  remote  from 
the  challenges  of  society." 

He  said  if  we  challenge  our  stu- 
dents to  become  reinvolved  in  the 
problems  of  social  progress,  we  must 
challenge  the  university  to  do  like- 
wise, adding,  "I  believe  the  colleges 
and  universities  of  this  nation  must 
make  a  greater  effort  to  become 
directly  involved  in  urban  America." 

Evans  then  called  for  creation  of 
urban  campuses  across  the  nation, 
and  for  universities  and  colleges  to 
create  graduate  study  programs  in 
urban  affairs. 

He  said  both  government  and  pri- 
vate enterprise  need  people  who 
understand  the  problems  of  urban 
environment  and  urban  transporta- 
tion and  the  economics  of  welfare, 
and  the  schools  must  provide  them. 

Evans  said  those  who  look  at 
today's  campus  with  "both  disgust 
and  disdain,"  fail  to  see  behind  the 
turmoil  and  the  unrest  "the  begin- 
ning of  a  new  order,  a  new  and  pro- 
found concern  for  society  and — with 
it — the  nation's  new  hope  for  a 
better  world  tomorrow." 

Out  of  the  campus  unrest,  Evans 
said,  "We  really  have  found  a  gen- 
eration which  is  willing  to  stand  up 
and  be  counted,  a  generation  which 
does  believe  in  something,  a  genera- 
tion which  is  not  afraid  to  be  our 
critic,  or  afraid  of  the  consequences. 
And  that  is  something  not  to  fear, 
but  to  be  coveted. " 

At  the  conclusion  of  Gov.  Evans' 
arldress,  President  Storke  presented 
degrees  to  270  undergraduates  and 
43  candidates  for  Master  of  Science. 


The  highest  academic  degree,  Doctor 
of  Philosophy,  was  awarded  to  11 
men.  Twenty -five  men  from  local 
industry  were  awarded  certificates 
for  completing  four  years  of  evening 
study  in  Tech's  School  of  Industrial 
Management. 

Six  honorary  degrees  were  con- 
ferred by  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson, 
'32,  Chairman  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees.  Receiving  Honorary 
Doctor  of  Engineering  degrees  were 
Gov.  Daniel  Jackson  Evans,  Arthur 
E.  Smith,  '33,  President,  United 
Aircraft  Corp.,  and  James  E.  Smith, 
'06,  founder,  The  National  Radio 
Institute. 

Those  receiving  Honorary  Doctor 
of  Science  degrees  were  Robert  D. 
Harrington,  President,  Paul  Revere 
Corp.,  and  generous  benefactor  of 
the  Institute,  Dr.  C.  Lester  Hogan, 
President,  Fairchild  Camera  &  In- 
strument Corp.,  and  Very  Rev. 
Raymond  J.  Swords,  S.J.,  President, 
Holy  Cross  College. 

President's  Address 

Next  on  the  program  was  Presi- 
dent Storke's  message.  Sudden 
stillness  once  more  was  evident,  for 
all  present  knew  this  would  be  a  fare- 
well message. 

"Change,  we  hear,  is  in  the  air. 
So  let's  change  this  routine,  at  long 
last.  Instead  of  a  message  to  the 
Graduating  Class,  by  this  very 
Lame  Duck  President  (at  this 
moment  standing  on  his  'last  leg'), 
may  I  take  a  bit  of  license,  in  the 
modern  spirit  of  'self-determina- 
tion'? 

"I  prefer  today  to  join  with  my 
classmates  of  1969  in  a  farewell 
message  to  Worcester  Tech. 

"Our  Alma  Mater  song  well  says 
it: 

"Long  have  we  felt  thy  guiding 

hand. 

Thy  teachings  broad  and  free;"' 
and,  I  go  on : 

"Willi  praises  loud  in  every  land. 

We'll  show  our  love  for  thee."  ' 

"Yes,  you  and   1   have  all   lasted. 


and — one  hopes — we  have  all  par- 
taken profitably,  of  the  best  that 
Worcester  Tech  has  had  to  offer — 
by  administration,  faculty,  donors 
of  financial  aid,  other  family  and 
community  friends.  These  recent 
years  have  had  their  ups  and 
downs,  but  with  'ups',  I  think,  pre- 
dominating, as  Worcester  Tech  has 
been  in  the  pulsating  throes  of 
changing  with  the  vitality  of  our 
fascinating  times.  I  predict  that, 
as  some  of  us  approach  the  age  of 
thirty — and  indulgence  in  retrospect 
thereupon  becomes  our  privilege — 
that  'best'  will  burgeon  wider  and 
more  lastingly  in  the  small,  very 
select,  highly  competitive,  range  of 
superiority.  With  it,  of  course,  will 
grow  our  pride  that  our  Alma  Mater 
made  so  much  available  to  us,  gave 
so  richly  to  us,  provided  us  so  many 
worthwhile  experiences  in  'growing 
up.'  In  return  she  asks  but  for  our 
happiness,  our  success,  our  loyalty, 
our  support.  However,  she  hopes 
fondly  that  today — and  then 
through  the  many  tomorrows,  as  we 
challenge  confidently  our  problems 
in  the  seething  world  which  we  face 
— we  can  ever  say,  honestly,  simply : 
'We  are  making  this  place  a  better 
place  because  we  are  here.' 

"To  you"  we  are  deeply  grateful 
for  so  much,  Worcester  Tech. 

"Now,  may  God  grant  that  the 
good  works  for  which  Boynton  Hill 
is  rightly  well  known  and  esteemed 
continue,  to  the  fullest  benefit  of 
those  countless  aspiring  Worcester 
Tech  students  of  the  years  to  come.. . 

"...  as  our  Worcester  Tech  goes 
on  and  on  ...  " 

Upon  completion  of  this  message, 
President  Storke  received  a  well- 
deserved  standing  ovation  which 
lasted  until  he  returned  to  center 
stage  and  threw  a  snappy  military 
salute  to  the  audience. 

After  the  Benediction  by  Rev. 
Robbins,  the  new  alumni  retired  to 
the  quandrangle  for  a  reception  and 
the  traditional  picture  taking.  An- 
other  successful  Commencement  had 
ended. 


20 


The  Journal 


This  was 
the  day  for 
smiling. 


The  Journal 


21 


From  left  to  right:  Arthur  Smith,  Robert  Harrington,  James  Smith,  Pres.  Storke,  Gov.  Evans,  Dr.  Hogan,  Very  Rev.  Sivords 


Honorary  Degrees 


Doctor  of  Engineering 

Governor  Daniel  J.  Evans 
Arthur  E.  Smith,  '33 
James  E.  Smith,  '06 


Doctor  of  Science 

Robert  D.  Harrington 
Dr.  C.  Lester  Hogan 
Very  Rev.  Raymond  J.  Swords,  SJ 


22 


I'm;  Jin  iin  m 


The  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award 

Walter  B.  Dennen,'18 

Michael  C.  Sodano,  '31 

John  L.  Brown,  Jr.,  '46 

The  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 
Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  '30 


The  Journal 


Above,  the  Robert  H.  Goddard  awards  presented  by 
Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  left,  Chairman  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees.  Below,  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 
presented  by  Robert  E.  Higgs,  ^O,  left,  President 
Alumni  Association. 

23 


Tech  Alumnus— 1969  Version 


The  typical  alumnus  of  today  is  markedly  different  from  the  alumnus 
of  just  a  decade  ago.  The  W.P.I,  graduate  of  today  is  far  more  con- 
cerned and  involved  than  his  predecessor. 

We  believe  that  this  increased  participation  and  acceptance  of 
responsibility  is  the  result  of  a  two-way  interaction: 

1.  The  role  of  our  Alumni  Association  is  now  one  of  continuous 
activity  and  responsibility.  It  is  the  kind  of  organization  that  at- 
tracts responsible  people  who  want  to  make  significant  contri- 
butions to  worthwhile  causes.  To  serve  the  cause  of  higher 
education  is  one  of  the  most  needed  personal  contributions  in  the 
world  today. 

2.  The  influx  of  intelligent,  active,  and  responsible  alumni  volun- 
teering to  work  for  our  Association  has  promoted  its  growth  and 
made  possible  our  acceptance  of  greater  and  more  diversified 
responsibilities. 

Long  gone  are  the  days  when  each  of  us,  as  an  individual  alumnus, 
heard  from  the  Alumni  Association  only  once  a  year — at  Fund  Drive  time. 
Now  we  are  aware  of  the  many  additional  ways  in  which  individual 
alumni  can,  and  must,  participate  and  assist.  Each  of  us  is  hearing 
from  the  Tech  Alumni  Association  many  times  each  year  with  a  variety 
of  challenges  and  opportunities. 

Involvement  in  alumni  activities  is  fun,  and  only  through  personal 
experience  can  you  appreciate  the  rewards  of  being  a  "Tech  Alumnus — 
1969  Version."  Today  we  have  constantly  increasing  numbers  of  your 
classes  and  chapters  working  on  such  important  functions  as:  Student- 
Alumni  Relations;  Faculty-Alumni  Relations;  Alumni  Fund;  Admissions 
(Prospective  students);  "The  Journal";  Alumni  Placement;  Chapter 
Programs;  Redistricting;  Council  representation. 

To  whatever  extent  your  time  and  energy  permit,  we  urge  you  to 
increase  your  participation  in  Alumni  Association  affairs.  You  will  soon 
see  why  the  number  of  whole-hearted  supporters  is  steadily  rising;  and 
why  personal  conviction  leads  to  greater  and  greater  financial  and  non- 
financial  contributions. 

Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40 


24  I  hi    |ui  u\  vi. 


L 


Trustees  Meet 


Vote  R.O.T.C.  Voluntary 


The  Board  of  Trustees,  at  its 
annual  meeting  on  June  7,  voted  to 
make  R.O.T.C.  an  elective  course 
effective  next  fall.  Last  year  at 
this  time,  they  had  voted  to  reduce 
the  required  amount  of  work  in  this 
course  from  two  years  to  one. 
Further,  they  delegated  to  the 
faculty  and  administration  the  re- 
sponsibility for  determining  the 
credit  allowed  for  course  work  in 
military  science. 

In  May,  the  student  body,  in  a 
referendum,  had  indicated  their 
overwhelming  opinion  for  the  elimi- 
nation of  R.O.T.C.  as  a  degree 
requirement.  By  a  slight  margin, 
they  voted  in  favor  of  retaining  some 
academic  credit  for  the  course. 

Also  during  May,  the  faculty  had 
voted  for  a  voluntary  program,  by 
a  margin  of  102-37. 

The  length  of  an  R.O.T.C.  orien- 
tation program  for  all  freshmen  was 
also  left  to  the  administration. 

The  Board  approved  a  recom- 
mendation to  replace  the  existing 
IBM  360/40  computer  with  an  RCA 
Spectra  70/46.  The  new  unit,  to  be 
installed  this  summer,  will  have  a 
time-sharing  capability  for  as  many 
as  fifty  remote  stations.  The 
Worcester  Area  College  Computa- 
tion Center,  located  in  the  Gordon 
Library,  will  be  responsible  for  this 
new  instrument. 

Approval  was  voted  to  increase 
available  scholarship  funds  for  next 
year  by  $100,000. 

New  members  elected  to  the 
Board  were  Dr.  Edward  R.  Funk, 
'46B,  and  Howard  G.  Freeman,  '40. 
Funk  is  Professor  of  Welding  Engi- 
neering at  Ohio  State  University  in 
Columbus  and    President  of  Cam- 


bridge Metallurgical  Corp.,  Boston. 
He  was  elected  a  term  member. 
Freeman,  who  was  elected  a  mem- 
ber-at-large,  is  President  of  James- 
bury  Corp.  of  Worcester. 

Re-elected  as  term  members  of 
the  Board  were  John  E.  Hossack, 
'46,  Vice  President  of  the  American 
Appraisal  Co.  of  Milwaukee,  Wis., 
and  Albert  M.  Demont,  '31,  Man- 
ager of  Professional  Manpower 
Development  at  the  Research  and 
Development  Center,  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Robert  D.  Harrington,  life  mem- 
ber of  the  Board,  was  appointed  to 
the  Executive  Committee. 

In  his  final  report  to  the  Board, 
President  Storke  said,  in  part: 

"I  shall  leave  office  at  the  end  of 
this  college  year  with  the  knowledge 
that  my  successor  gives  every  indi- 
cation of  being  an  ideal  choice  to 
lead  Worcester  Tech  on  to  new 
heights  in  higher  education.  Dr. 
George  W.  Hazzard  deserves,  and  I 
know  will  receive,  the  finest  support 
from  the  Board  of  Trustees.  His 
selection  was  an  important  mile- 
stone for  Worcester  Tech,  for  it  in- 
volved for  the  first  time  representa- 
tive segments  of  the  campus  com- 
munity: trustees,  students,  faculty, 
alumni,  and  staff.  No  one  in  those 
groups  can  ever  say  that  he  didn't 
have  full  opportunity  to  contribute 
his  bit  in  the  selection  of  President 
No.  11. 

"For  my  part,  I  repeat  simply: 
I  am  happy  to  be  turning  over  my 
rewarding  responsibilities  to  Doctor 
Hazzard.  T  think  he  is  the  educa- 
tional leader  whom  Worcester  Tech 
needs  as  its  eleventh  President. 

"I  wish  that   more  trustees  eoiild 


have  found  time  to  share  with  us 
the  wonderful  experience  of  Plan- 
ning Day  on  April  16.  Eight 
separate  discussion  sections  of  stu- 
dents, faculty,  administration, 
alumni,  and  trustees  gave  serious, 
constructive,  and  imaginative  con- 
sideration to  the  long  range  future 
of  Worcester  Tech.  Basis  for  their 
deliberations  was  the  comprehensive 
preliminary  report  of  the  President's 
Planning  Group,  which  had  done  a 
masterful,  rush-order  job  of  probing 
into  the  entire  fabric  of  the  college, 
touching  on  both  our  strong  and 
weak  areas.  Their  initial  task  was 
not  to  make  decisions  or  firm  rec- 
ommendations, but  rather  to  eval- 
uate Tech  as  it  is  today  and  to  pre- 
sent points  for  broad  discussion 
later.  The  focal  point  of  Planning 
Day  was  the  list  of  a  dozen  possible 
over-all  objectives  toward  which  the 
college  might  work. 

"In  accordance  with  those  ground 
rules,  no  specific  conclusions  were 
reached.  Rather,  recorders  at  each 
session  compiled  complete  notes  on 
the  many  fine  ideas  and  points  of 
view  discussed,  which  were  turned 
over  to  the  Planning  Committee. 
They,  in  turn,  will  correlate  the 
notes  in  preparation  for  summer 
work  and  a  second  report,  which 
will  be  issued  in  September  prior 
to  a  second  Planning  Day.  Final 
recommendations  are  expected  by 
June  of  1970.  This,  you  must  ad- 
mit, is  a  formidable  task,  but  well 
worth  the  most  dedicated  efforts  of 
all. 

"Perhaps  the  widest  comment  at 
the  conclusion  of  Planning  Day  was 
that  from  faculty,  praising  the  im- 
portant contributions  of  the  150 
students  who  had  so  eagerly  partici- 
pated. It  was  most  gratifying  to 
hear  this  universal  compliment  to 
our  students  and  at  the  same  time 
a  little  sad  to  sense  that  their  in- 
terest, reasonable  approaches,  and 
constructive  observations  should 
come  as  such  a  surprise  to  so  many 
people  who  work  with  them  every 
dav.    We  have  alwavs  looked  on  our 


26 


III!     JontN  VI. 


new  graduates  as  maturing  young 
men,  who  would  be  well  qualified  to 
take  their  places  in  the  world.  Yet 
surely  they  must  reach  that  stage 
of  their  development  sometime  be- 
fore June  of  their  final  year  in  col- 
lege, because  there  is  no  magical 
power  in  the  legalistic  words  which 
are  intoned  at  their  Commencement 
or  inscribed  on  their  diplomas.  It 
could  just  be  that  many  of  us  older 
timers  are  still  underestimating  the 
capacity  and  the  potential  of  the 
young  undergraduate  student  of 
today. 

"In  the  summary  comments  of 
the  committee's  first  report,  they 
emphasized  one  of  Worcester  Tech's 
greatest  assets;  'Our  student  body 


is  definitely  ahead  of  most  others 
academically  and  in  creative  citi- 
zenship, and  these  assets  should  be 
used  more  in  framing  our  image.' 
Surely  in  these  days  when  campus 
turmoil  seems  to  be  the  major  news 
of  the  day,  we  should  be  very  proud 
of  a  student  body  which  has  so 
thoroughly  entered  into  the  co- 
operative spirit  of  evolutionary  plan- 
ning for  a  greater  Worcester  Tech. 

"And  so  we  come  to  the  close  of 
this  final  Storke  epistle  to  the 
trustees.  Originally,  the  letter  was 
sent  only  to  members  of  the  Board; 
for  several  years,  a  copy  has  been 
sent  to  all  faculty  and  administra- 
tion and  to  the  Tech  News,  so  that 
its    information   could    receive   the 


widest  possible  distribution  through 
the  entire  campus;  also,  copies  are 
sent  to  alumni  chapters.  There  are 
very  few  matters  of  interest  at  Tech 
which  cannot  and  should  not  be 
communicated  to  all  interested 
people.  The  open  book  is  necessary 
to  real  progress.  The  more  we  all 
understand,  the  better  we  can  all 
cooperate  proudly,  always  ready  to 
appraise  ourselves,  always  anxious 
to  take  fearlessly  those  positive 
steps  which  our  future  success  de- 
mands. This  is  the  spirit  which 
abounds  on  the  Tech  campus  today, 
I  believe.  I  feel  sure  that  it  will  go 
on  and  on. 

"And    so,    I    am    certain,    will 
Worcester  Tech." 


The  Alumni  Council 

Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40  Elected  Association  President 


A  new  Register  of  Membership 
will  be  published  by  the  Association 
in  1970.  This  was  authorized  by 
the  Alumni  Council  at  their  annual 
meeting  on  Friday,  June  6.  More 
than  35  delegates  and  officers  were 
present. 

Elected  President  of  the  Asso- 
ciation was  Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40. 
Also  elected  as  members-at-large  of 
the  Executive  Committee  were 
Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38,  and  Francis 
S.  Harvey,  '37.  Re-elected  as  Vice 
President  was  Rafael  R.  Gabarro, 
'51,  and  as  Secretary-Treasurer, 
Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42.  Higgs  suc- 
ceeds Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36. 

In  his  report  to  the  Council, 
Tripp  called  for  increased  efforts  to 
involve  larger  numbers  of  alumni  in 
the  programs  of  the  Association. 
He  singled  out  the  chapter  meeting 
programs  as  an  area  needing  at- 
tention. 

Higgs  is  the  Manager  of  National 
Order  Handling,  Systems  and  Data 

The  Journal 


Processing,  for  the  Electronic  Com- 
ponents and  Devices  Division  of 
RCA.  He  is  headquartered  in 
Edison,  N.J.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  Alumni  Fund  Board  from  1958 
to  1966  and  was  elected  a  member- 
at-large  of  the  Executive  Committee 
in  1968.  For  many  years  he  helped 
on  the  Alumni  Fund,  including  key- 
man,  in  the  Northern  New  Jersey 
Chapter.  He  has  also  been  active  in 
the  Techni-Forum  program  and  as 
an  alumni  admissions  counselor. 

Bonin  is  President  of  Chemical 
Construction  Corp.,  a  subsidiary  of 
Electronic  Bond  and  Share  Co.  He 
was  elected  a  member  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees  in  1967.  Previously,  he 
served  first  as  a  member-at-large  of 
the  Executive  Committee  of  the 
Alumni  Association  from  1964-66, 
and  then  as  a  Vice  President  from 
1966-68. 

Harvey,  who  is  also  a  member  of 
the  Board  of  Trustees,  elected  in 
1966,  is  President  and  Treasurer  of 


Harvey  and  Tracy,  consulting  engi- 
neers in  Worcester.  He  has  been 
active  in  the  Worcester  County 
Chapter  and  the  Alumni  Council. 
He  served  as  a  vice  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association  from  1965-67. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  college's  Ad 
Hoc  Committee  on  admissions. 

A  highlight  of  the  meeting  was 
the  presentation  of  a  portfolio  of 
congratulatory  letters  to  President 
Storke  on  the  occasion  of  his  retire- 
ment. In  addition,  he  was  presented 
with  a  portable  color  television  set 
and  a  portable  tape  recorder. 

In  his  report  to  the  Council,  the 
president  stated  that,  in  his  con- 
sidered judgment,  his  successor,  Dr. 
George  W.  Hazzard,  is  the  right 
man  for  the  college  at  this  time. 
He  noted  that  he  had  made  only 
three  or  four  suggestions  to  his 
successor.  Among  them  was  one  of 
interest  to  the  Council.  He  stated 
that  he  recommended  that  in  the 
Continued  on  page  Ifl 

27 


And  some  said 
it  couldn't  be  done. 


265  Attend  New  York  Chapter  Meeting 


Would  you  believe  that  an  alumni 
chapter  meeting  could  draw  an 
attendance  of  265  people?  Well, 
the  New  York  and  Northern  New 
Jersey  Chapters  combined  their 
efforts  to  achieve  this  outstanding 
attendance  record. 

Faced  with  a  waning  interest 
amongst  its  alumni  members,  the 
New  York  Alumni  Chapter,  under 
the  superb  direction  of  President 
Stephen  J.  Spencer,  '49,  decided 
to  stimulate  some  enthusiasm.  An 
executive  committee  brainstorming 
session  resulted  in  the  mailing  of 
a  questionnaire  to  determine  what 
activities  would  appeal  to  the  mem- 
bership. 

One  of  the  most  popular  choices 
selected  by  the  members  was  for  a 
dinner  meeting  at  the  United  Na- 
tions. The  initial  attempts  at 
arranging  the  meeting  were  met 
by  rebuffs  from  U.N.  staff  members 
who  stated  that  their  facilities  were 
not  available  to  outside  groups. 
However,  it  was  determined  thai 
at  senile  prior  time  one  outside 
group  did  manage  to  hold  a  meet  ing 

28 


there.  That  group  was  the  Harvard 
Business  School  Alumni.  We  were 
determined  to  be  the  second  meeting 
group  allowed,  and  through  the 
intervention  of  a  common  friend, 
we  were  able  to  solicit  the  assist- 
ance of  the  Ambassador  from  Saudi 
Arabia,  Jamil  Baroodi. 

By  his  political  influence,  Mr. 
Baroodi  gained  our  admission  to 
the  U.N.  facilities  for  a  dinner 
meeting,  and  he  consented  to  be  the 
guest  speaker  covering  the  topic  of 
the  current  Middle  East  situation. 

However,  there  was  one  stipula- 
tion; we  were  to  provide  a  minimum 
of  200  people  at  $11.00  per  person 
and  it  had  to  be  a  weeknight. 
This  was  quite  a  challenge,  and 
we  asked  Norm  Taupeka's  Northern 
New  Jersey  Chapter  to  collaborate 
with  us  in  this  endeavor.  The 
result  was  an  outstanding  success 
as  175  alumni,  wives,  and  sweet- 
hearts plus  00  guests  turned  out 
for  the  event.  Alumni  from  the 
far  areas  of  Long  Island,  New  Jer- 
sey, Connecticut,  ;m<l  Poughkeepsie 
drove    the    many    miles    to    Man- 


hattan to  support  this  significant 
happening.  Recent  graduates  were 
in  abundance,  and  both  the  younger 
set  and  old  grads  had  happy  re- 
unions with  schoolmates  they  had 
not  seen  in  some  time. 

Ambassador  Baroodi,  who  was 
one  of  the  founders  of  the  Human 
Rights  Commission,  has  been  at 
the  U.N.  since  its  inception.  His 
vivid  interpretations  of  the  history 
and  problems  of  the  Middle  East 
caused  some  lively  pro  and  con 
comments  by  the  audience.  A 
spirited  question  and  answer  period 
resulted  in  some  stimulating  partici- 
pation by  members  of  the  gathering. 
Prominently  in  evidence  during  the 
talk  was  the  NBC  Television  News 
camera  crew  who  filmed  the  speech. 
Also  conspicuous  was  the  photog- 
rapher from  United  Press  Inter- 
national who  took  flash  pictures 
throughout  the  evening. 

The  meeting  was  so  successful 
that  a  similar  one  is  being  contem- 
plated with  aii  Israeli  Representa- 
tive as  the  main  speaker,  or  pos- 
sibly  even   an    Aral)- Israeli   debate. 

Tin-;  Joi  hn  m. 


A  Few  Suggestions  and  Thoughts  on 

Programs  for  W.P.I.  Alumni  Chapters 

Throughout  the  Country 


by 

Stephen  J.  Spencer,  '49 

Chapter  Programs  Chairman 


Because  of  the  success  of  our  Unit- 
ed Nations  meeting  this  past  winter, 
I  was  asked  to  accept  the  newly 
created  post  of  Chapter  Programs 
Chairman.  I  was  told  that  this 
would  consist  merely  of  making  sug- 
gestions to  the  Chapters  on  how  to 
improve  their  program  meetings  and 
boost  attendance.  And  that  is  all 
that  this  Chairmanship  could  pro- 
vide by  remote  control. 

There  is  no  pat  formula  that  I 
know  of  for  a  successful  program. 
The  following,  however,  are  a  few 
suggestions  which  I  feel  are  a  must 
for  a  good  program ! 

1.  Dues  Increase  Chapter  dues 
to  $5.00  per  year.  A  Chapter  can- 
not function  properly  today  on  $2.00 
and  $3.00  dues  of  the  past.  The 
extra  money  is  necessary  for  mailing 
costs  alone. 

In  New  York  after  a  close  vote, 
where  the  dissidents  argued  that  an 
increase  to  $5.00  would  drive  away 
at  least  half  of  the  dues  paying  mem- 
bers, the  New  York  Chapter  in- 
creased dues  to  $5.00,  beginning  the 
1968-1969  year.  The  results  were 
most  gratifying.  The  dues  paying 
membership  doubled  and  the  Chap- 
ter treasury  nearly  quadrupled. 

2.  Contacts  A  Chapter  member 
must  have  the  feeling  of  belonging. 
He  likes  and  wants  attention.  In- 
creased contact  with  the  Chapter 
member  other  than  just  fund  raising 
will  give  him  this  feeling.  Frequent 
contacts  should  be  made  via  letters, 
by  telephone  and  in  person. 

The  Journal 


3.  Questionnaire  A  beginning 
point  for  this  contact  should  be  a 
questionnaire  asking  for  yes  and  no 
answers  and  suggestions  from  the 
membership  for  a  better  meetings 
program. 

4.  Newsletter  Post  the  results  in 
a  newsletter  and  continue  to  send 
out  a  newsletter  after  every  meeting 
informing  the  membership  on  the 
doings  of  the  last  meeting  and  list 
the  names  of  those  who  attended. 
Relate  the  highlights  of  the  principal 
speaker's  talk  and  tell  them  some- 
thing about  the  next  meeting  coming 
up.  This  newsletter  can  be  ex- 
panded to  provide  news  and  happen- 
ings of  Chapter  members. 

5.  Meetings  Plan  about  four  (4) 
meetings  a  year.  Begin  immedi- 
ately with  a  luncheon  meeting,  then 
a  ladies'  night  dinner  meeting  in 
mid-winter,  followed  by  another 
luncheon  meeting  and  ending  with  a 
ladies'  day  spring  meeting. 

6.  Current  Events  Make  your 
mid-winter  meeting  your  most  im- 
portant. Choose  a  current  events 
topic.  Choose  a  non-technical  sub- 
ject. Choose  a  controversial  sub- 
ject. The  more  controversial  the 
better.  Make  this  a  combined 
meeting  with  an  adjacent  Chapter  if 
possible.  Set  up  tables  of  8  and  10 
persons  and  give  members  the 
opportunity  to  organize  their  own 
table  of  friends  and  guests.  En- 
courage them  to  bring  friends. 

7.  Charge  Don't  be  afraid  of  the 
charges  per  person.    If  the  program 


is  good  and  pushed  hard,  the  mem- 
bers will  pay.  The  charge  for  the 
U.N.  meeting  in  New  York  was 
$11.00  per  person.  Set  up  reserva- 
tions with  payment  in  advance. 

8.  Young  Alumni  To  attract 
younger  members,  appoint  one  man 
from  each  class  to  contact  his  class- 
mates for  a  reunion  at  each  meeting. 
For  example,  at  the  first  meeting 
have  a  reunion  for  the  classes  of 
62-63-64.  The  next  meeting  65-66- 
67,  etc. 

For  last  year's  graduates,  ob- 
tain the  new  names  and  addresses 
from  the  alumni  office  and  invite 
each  new  member  free  of  charge  to 
the  next  meeting.  Inform  him  of 
the  other  members  of  his  class  who 
are  being  contacted.  Give  each  new 
member  a  feeling  of  knowing  some- 
one at  the  meeting. 

9.  Publicity  Arrange  for  pub- 
licity. The  more  publicity  the 
better.  Get  W.P.I.  alumni  in  the 
news  through  your  local  papers  as 
well  as  the  international  press. 
Coordinate  this  publicity  with  the 
publicity  offices  on  the  Hill.  Let's 
get  the  world  to  know  that  Worces- 
ter Tech  is  in  Worcester,  Mass., 
and  not  in  Wooster,  Ohio.  This  in 
itself  will  personally  benefit  each 
alumnus  and  will  make  us  more 
proud  of  being  graduates  of  Worces- 
ter Tech.  Thus  with  this  pride  it 
will  help  to  make  our  fund  raising 
easier  and  increase  fund  totals 
yearly. 

29 


Undergraduate  Viewpoint 

Impressions  of  Spring 

£y  Howard  H.  Shore, '69 


This  time  of  year  normally  elicits 
ecstatic  sighs  of  relief  from  gradu- 
ating seniors.  Now  that  the  col- 
lege grind  is  over,  the  Tech  graduate 
will  be  able  to  look  back  on  his 
educational  experience  and  tell  his 
successors  with  confidence,  "Aw, 
it  was  easy."  But,  of  course,  once 
is  enough.  The  important  con- 
sideration is  that  with  his  new 
degree,  Joe  Tech  can  now  forge  his 
way  into  society  with  hopes  for 
future  happiness  and  prosperity. 

At  least  that's  the  way  it  should 
be.  Unfortunately,  things  are  not 
quite  that  simple.  One  senior  in- 
formed me,  "It's  too  bad  I  couldn't 
take  the  job  I  really  wanted,  but 
I  had  to  grab  the  best  opportunity  I 
could  to  avoid  the  draft."  Although 
not  universally  true,  it  does  appear 
that  most  seniors  going  into  in- 
dustry (and  not  receiving  an 
R.O.T.C.  commission)  have  taken 
jobs  that  are  reasonably  safe  from 
military  interference.  The  lot  of 
the  seniors  bound  for  graduate 
school  is  much  different.  With 
the  change  in  policy  that  previously 
allowed  for  deferments  for  students 
in  advanced  degree  programs,  they 
probably  face  the  worst  dilemma 
of  their  lives.  Some  have  taken 
temporary  draft-safe  jobs  as  teach- 
ers, a  few  contemplate  going  to 
Canada,  many  just  don't  know. 
Now  that  the  moment  of  truth  has 
arrived,  previously  apathetic  under- 
graduates have  taken  a  sudden 
interest  in  the  future  of  the  war. 
As  one  senior  noted,  "The  sad 
effect  of  the  whole  mess  is  that 
the  normal  exuberance  of  happiness 
found  in  graduating  seniors  is  eon- 

30 


spicuously  absent  in  this  year's 
crop." 

The  April  16  Planning  Day  spon- 
sored by  the  President's  Planning 
Group  was  an  interesting  experi- 
ment in  brainstorming.  The  pur- 
pose of  the  day-long  venture  was  to 
assimilate  as  many  ideas  as  possible 
concerning  the  future  of  the  In- 
stitute. The  faculty  participation 
was  outstanding;  the  student  par- 
ticipation, although  light  statis- 
tically, was  hailed  by  the  Com- 
mittee. Both  students  and  faculty 
were  pleased  with  the  opportunity 
to  engage  in  personal  discourse 
about  something  other  than  course 
work.  Professor  C.  William  Ship- 
man,  Chairman  of  the  Planning 
Group,  said,  in  a  letter  to  the 
Tech  News,  "At  a  time  when  other 
campuses  are  rocked  by  the  turmoil 
of  unreasoned  confrontation,  we 
can  all  be  proud  that  frank  and 
constructive  criticism  is  the  way 
at  Worcester  Tech.  Surely  where 
we  have  such  a  demonstrated  well 
of  talented  good  will,  our  efforts  to 
'make  our  good  college  an  excellent 
one'  have  every  chance  of  success." 

With  the  planning  operation  suc- 
cessfully initiated,  the  coming  year 
offers  great  hope  for  more  profound 
change  on  The  Hill. 

Even  the  graduate  students  have 
reacted  to  the  spirit  of  change  now 
permeating  the  campus.  Some  post- 
grads, evidently  feeling  a  need  for 
their  involvement  in  the  affairs  of 
the  predominantly  undergraduate 
student  body,  have  formed  the  Ad 
Hoc  Committee  for  a  Graduate 
Student  Council.  The  Committee 
states,  "We  have  had  some  positive 


indications  that  representatives  of  a 
Worcester  Tech  Graduate  Student 
Council  would  be  welcomed  to  take 
an  active  part  in  the  work  to  deter- 
mine the  future  course  of  W.P.I. 
Further,  the  availability  of  our 
services  and  the  nature  of  our  con- 
cerns would  be  made  known  to  the 
individuals  and  committees  of  the 
administration,  alumni,  faculty,  and 
undergraduates  by  such  a  graduate 
student  council." 

A  recent  student  referendum  on 
R.O.T.C.  has  stimulated  more  de- 
bate on  this  national  collegiate 
controversy.  In  the  preferential 
balloting,  students  voted  to  make 
the  program  completely  voluntary 
with  no  academic  credit.  Running 
a  close  second  was  the  proposal  to 
make  R.O.T.C.  voluntary,  but  with 
academic  credit.  The  final  dis- 
tribution of  the  preferential  votes 
showed  413  students  in  favor  of  a 
voluntary  program  with  no  aca- 
demic credit,  while  337  voted  for  a 
totally  voluntary  program  with  a 
short  introduction  period  and  aca- 
demic credit.  The  results  of  the 
referendum  are  not  surprising  in 
view  of  the  increased  national  trend 
to  separate  the  military  from  aca- 
demic life. 

Whatever  else  can  be  said  about 
Tech  undergraduates,  they  cannot 
be  accused  of  lack  of  business 
initiative.  On  April  7,  the  Hog's 
Head  Concession  opened  its  doors 
for  business  in  Morgan  Hall,  selling 
cooked  food,  beer,  and  whiskey. 
The  three  students  masterminding 
the  operation  evidently  felt  an  in- 
creased need  on  campus  for  more 
personalized  culinary  service.  Alas. 
the  venture  was  short-lived.  The 
business  was  terminated  by  some 
unimpressed  dorm  counselors,  and 
its  purveyors  were  prosecuted  by 
the  Student  Court.  Notwithstand- 
ing Dr.  Cioddard  himself,  Tech  will 
long  remember  these  three  coura- 
geous cut  rcpreneurs  whose  dauntless 
business  enterprise  has  earned  them 
a  permanent  place  on  tin-  bad 
conduct  rolls  of  W.P.I. 

I  mi  Journal 


William  R.  Grogan,  '46 


Named  Outstanding 
Teacher 


A  man  of  many  interests  has  been 
presented  with  the  10th  Board  of 
Trustees  Award  for  Outstanding 
Teaching.  William  Robert  Grogan, 
'46,  Professor  of  Electrical  Engi- 
neering, and  chairman  of  the  col- 
lege's curriculum  committee  for 
the  past  three  years,  was  chosen 
by  a  committee  of  faculty  and 
students. 

Characterized  by  his  deep  con- 
cern for  the  welfare  of  his  fellow 
man,  Prof.  Grogan  has,  over  the 
years,  displayed  a  versatility  of 
interests.  His  citation  readily  de- 
tails his  varied  activities  both  in 
and  out  of  the  classroom. 

Upon  receiving  the  award  at  the 
annual  faculty  dinner  on  May  12,  he 
attributed  much  of  his  success  to 
the  influence  and  inspiration  exerted 
on  him  by  his  longtime  colleague, 
now  retired,  Prof.  Hobart  H.  New- 
ell, '18.  Prof.  Newell  received  the 
same  award  in  1960. 

Except  for  service  in  the  Navy, 
in  which  he  held  the  rank  of  Lt., 
Prof.  Grogan  has  been  a  member 
of  the  faculty  since  graduation. 
He  was  appointed  a  professor  in 
1962. 


The  Journal 


CITATION 

William  Robert  Grogan,  Professor  of  Electrical 
Engineering,  has  for  many  years  shown  himself  an 
outstanding  W.P.I,  teacher,  a  counselor  ever  ready 
to  help  students,  an  inspiring  leader  in  his  own  depart- 
ment and  in  the  school  itself,  and  a  prime  mover  in 
joining  the  academic  and  industrial  communities. 

In  the  classroom  Professor  Grogan  teaches  in  an 
exceptionally  orderly  and  systematic  way.  He  relates 
each  detail  of  a  subject  clearly  to  the  subject's  struc- 
ture; he  knows  exactly  how  to  present  that  detail 
in  the  most  comprehensive  manner.  He  leads  in 
developing  and  using  training  devices  to  increase 
teaching  and  learning  effectiveness.  He  has  keen 
insight  into  what  is  going  on  in  his  students'  thinking. 
He  establishes  quick  and  effective  rapport  with  his 
class. 

Outside  the  class  he  is  generous  with  his  time  in 
helping  individuals  and  living  groups  in  his  subjects 
and  in  advising  student  activity  groups.  He  was 
president  of  his  national  fraternity  one  year,  devoting 
most  of  his  weekends  to  flying  around  the  United  States 
to  hold  airport  chapter  meetings. 

Over  the  past  ten  years  he  has  developed  an  out- 
standing course  in  Engineering  Economy  including 
group  design  and  development  projects  with  dollar- 
orientation.  He  has  recently  extended  this  course 
to  include  actual  projects  from  nearby  industries  with 
direct  student  practicing  engineer  contact.  Engi- 
neering managers  help  evaluate  student  solutions. 

His  numerous  contributions  to  his  department  and 
the  school  include  chairmanship  of  an  Electrical  Engi- 
neering Department  Committee  continuously  develop- 
ing and  improving  the  curriculum,  chairmanship  of 
an  Institute  Curriculum  Committee  with  resultant 
radical  innovation  to  include  the  first  available  curricula 
beyond  traditional  engineering  and  science,  producing 
a  teaching  theory  and  methods  seminar  for  the  entire 
faculty.  During  these  years  he  has  also  found  time  to 
act  as  a  consultant  to  the  United  States  Navy  on  the 
implementation  of  a  shipboard  missile  system  including 
related  personnel  problems,  as  a  consultant  to  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  on  the  development  of  tech- 
nical personnel  and  graduate  education  progress,  and 
as  a  consultant  to  the  General  Electric  Company. 

His  activities  bring  great  credit  to  himself,  to  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  and  to  the  teaching  profes- 
sion. The  Faculty  Award  Committee  therefore  cites 
Professor  Grogan  for  distinguished  service  and  for 
distinguished  excellence  in  teaching  and  designates 
him  recipient  of  the  1969  Faculty  Award. 

31 


K.  G.  Merriam  Retires 


For  more  than  45  years,  since 
the  last  years  of  President  Ira 
Hollis'  administration.  Prof.  Ken- 
neth G.  Merriam,  MS  '35,  has  been 
a  distinguished  member  of  the  col- 
lege's mechanical  engineering  de- 
partment. Countless  students  re- 
member his  deep,  sonorous  voice; 
at  times  booming  out  in  command- 
ing tones,  on  other  occasions  so 
low  in  volume  that  one  would 
almost  have  to  strain  to  hear  a 
word,  and  yet  all  calculated  to  add 

32 


the  proper  emphasis  and  heighten 
the  process  of  learning  for  which 
he  is  so  well  known.  With  the  end 
of  this  academic  year,  Prof.  Mer- 
riam is  retiring. 

"I  guess  the  one  thing  I  will 
miss  the  most,"  he  said,  "will  be 
simply  working  with  students.  After 
all,  they  are  really  what  teaching 
is  all  about.  I  have  always  felt 
concerned  about  a  student's  wel- 
fare— particularly  those  less  able. 
So    I've   always   kept    the    'heat'   on 


them,  especially  in  the  basic  me- 
chanics courses.  These  courses 
are  fundamental.  For  an  engineer 
to  be  competent,  he  must  not  only 
have  learned  this  material  but 
also  the  discipline  of  his  mind. 
This  latter  aspect  is  perhaps  even 
more  important." 

What  about  our  current  crop  of 
undergraduates,  we  asked.  Have 
we  cause  for  concern?  "I  don't 
think  so,"  he  replied.  "Remember, 
what  we  read  about  in  the  papers 
only  represents  a  small  minority. 
It's  the  great  silent  majority  of 
students  whom  we  should  think 
about.  In  my  courses  our  students 
continue  to  do  a  competent  job 
and  the  top  ten  percent  may  even 
be  better  than  their  predecessors — 
although  we  won't  know  the  answer 
to  thut  for  10  or  20  years." 

When  we  asked  about  his  most 
satisfactory  experience,  "K.G."  re- 
lit his  pipe  and  pondered  for  a 
few  moments.  "I  can't  pinpoint 
any  one  thing,"  he  said.  "Cer- 
tainly working  with  the  many  stu- 
dents who  took  the  aero  option 
during  the  30  years  we  offered  it 
here  in  the  M.E.  Dept.  was  re- 
warding. But  I  think  of  something 
more  than  that  program  .  .  .  it's 
rather  simple,  yet  difficult  to  con- 
vey in  words — but  what  I  believe 
has  been  my  most  satisfactory  ex- 
perience has  been  my  association 
with  the  college  during  this  period. 
The  students,  my  colleagues  on  the 
faculty,  the  courses  I  taught:  these 
are  all  part  of  it — but  what  I  refer 
to  is  something  more. 

"You  know,  at  the  conclusion  of 
World  War  II  every  faculty  member 
who  had  left  the  college  to  enter 
the  service  returned  to  Tech.  That's 
quite  remarkable.  I  remember  ask- 
ing Harry  Feldman  of  the  Chemis- 
try Dept.  about  it — he  said,  'I 
guess  it's  a  way  of  life  here  at  Tech.' 

"The  college  has  always  had 
integrity  and  high  standards.  And 
the  college  has  always  backed  its 
faculty.  Without  any  pretentious- 
ness,  W.P.I,   has   quietly    fostered 

I  HI     Jul   UN  VI. 


what  has  been  a  policy  of  academic 
freedom  at  its  best.  There  are 
not  many  colleges  which,  when 
looking  back  on  the  last  45  years, 
can  make  that  statement." 

While  we  talked  with  K.G.  (whom 
we,  along  with  many  of  you,  had 
enjoyed  in  class),  it  occurred  to 
us  that  with  his  retirement  another 
of  the  tenuous  links  with  the  past 


was  being  severed.  The  daily 
quizzes  in  his  courses,  the  note- 
book that  each  of  us  kept,  the 
periodic  conferences  with  him  in 
his  office,  the  feeling  of  respect 
and  willingness  to  work  a  little 
harder  than  we  normally  would;  all 
of  these  thoughts  crossed  our  mind. 
And  we  also  thought  of  all  the 
many,  many  students  whom  he  has 


helped  educate.  They  are,  in  a 
way,  an  extension  of  this  man  in 
the  world  today.  And,  although 
we  didn't  say  it  to  him  (for  we 
know  him  well  enough  to  know 
he  would  prefer  it  otherwise)  we 
thought  that  in  manner  singular 
to  him,  he  is  perhaps  influencing 
our  society  far  more  than  either 
of  us  realized. 


Robert  D.  Behn,  '63,  Edits  New  Book 


Robert  D.  Behn,  '63,  is  a  versa- 
tile alumnus  of  many  talents.  After 
receiving  his  degree  in  physics  from 
the  college  in  1963,  he  went  on 
to  study  at  Harvard  University, 
where  he  received  his  masters  in 
engineering  in  1965  and  his  Ph.D. 
in  decision  and  control  in  1968. 
Since  that  time  he  has  been  re- 
search director  and  a  member  of 
the  National  Governing  Board  of 
the  Ripon  Society.  It  is  in  this 
latter  capacity  that  we  write  of 
him  today,  for  he  has  just  edited 
a  book  entitled  The  Lessons  of 
Victory,  published  by  Dial.  Quot- 
ing from  the  book  review  which 
appeared  in  the  New  York  Times 
on  April  26 :  "  The  Lessons  of  Victory, 
an  investigation  in  depth  by  Repub- 
licans of  the  campaign  of  1968, 
makes  that  campaign  more  exciting 
than  it  is  in  memory,  and  than  it 
was,  I  suspect,  in  fact.  .  .  For  the 
analysis  of  the  race,  from  the  stir- 
rings of  the  contenders  .  .  .  the 
speeches  made  (and  not  made), 
the  strategy  and  tactics  all  make 
for  fascinating  reading,  not  merely 
as  history,  but  as  a  chapter  in  the 
American  art  of  politics.  If  you 
followed  the  campaign  at  all  last 
year,  you  will  find  the  Ripon  So- 
ciety's recapitulation  an  interest- 
laden  document,  much  like  a  trave- 
logue  of   a   city   you    have   visited 

The  Journal 


and  recall  vividly.  .  .  The  Ripon 
Society  was  founded  in  1962  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  by  a  group  of 
Republicans  to  provide  'the  GOP 
with  political  ideas  that  contribute 
to  the  American  dialogue.' 

"The  Lessons  of  Victory,  written, 
incidentally,  by  various  hands,  deals 
very  little  with  victory.  It's  not 
a  cry  of  'Look,  how  we  beat  them,' 
but  a  wry  comment  on  'Look,  how 
we  almost  blew  it.'  The  authors 
are  troubled  by  the  fact  that  the 
enormous  advantages  that  the  Re- 
publicans had  at  the  start  did  not 
yield  comparable  results  at  the  end. 
It    wasn't    that    Americans    didn't 


want  change,  they  say,  as  that  they 
began  to  feel  that  Nixon  couldn't 
give  it  to  them.  .  .  These  subordi- 
nate themes  as  well  as  the  major 
ones  are  explored  with  shrewd 
judgment  and  an  insider's  knowl- 
edge of  the  facts  in  this  penetrating 
study." 

Bob  continues  his  interest  in 
W.P.I.  He  has  served  this  past 
year  as  program  chairman  for  the 
Boston  Alumni  Chapter  and  is  also 
currently  treasurer  of  the  Cluverius 
Society,  the  Alumni  Interfraternity 
Council  of  the  college.  He  and  his 
wife,  Judith,  are  living  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 


Holbrook,  '44,  Aids  Research 


A  grant  of  $25,000  to  establish 
a  research  program  at  the  college 
has  been  donated  by  Harrison  E. 
Holbrook,  Jr.,  '44,  his  brother, 
Kenneth  W.,  and  his  sisters,  Miss 
Gertrude  L.  and  Mrs.  Phyllis  V. 
Ervin.  The  grant  honors  their 
late  father,  Harrison  E.  Holbrook, 
Sr.,  founder  of  H.  E.  Holbrook 
Drop  Forge  Co.,  Worcester. 

The  announcement  was  made  by 
the  Forging  Industry  Educational 
and  Research  Foundation,  whose 
prospective  educational  and  re- 
search work  the  grant  will  support. 


The  foundation  will  handle  the  dis- 
bursement of  the  funds  to  Worces- 
ter Tech. 

Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr.,  '44  is  a 
native  of  Worcester.  He  majored  in 
mechanical  engineering  at  the  col- 
lege. 

Since  graduation  he  has  worked 
at  his  father's  firm,  becoming  presi- 
dent and  treasurer  in  1958.  The 
company  became  a  division  of 
Providence  Steel  and  Iron  Co.,  Inc., 
in  1968.  At  that  time,  Holbrook 
became  semi-retired  and  took  up 
residence  in  Marco  Island,  Fla. 

33 


Alumni  Fund  Sets  New 

Record 


By  the  time  alumni  will  read 
this  story,  the  1968-69  Annual 
Alumni  Fund  will  be  history.  As 
we  go  to  press,  the  totals  are  $119,- 
824.61  from  2,976  contributors.  In 
addition,  some  $14,212.82  in  cor- 
porate matching  gifts  can  be  added 
to  the  amount  raised. 

When  compared  to  the  previous 
fund  in  1967-68,  the  past  year's 
effort  will  represent  a  gain  in  both 
dollars  and  donors.  Last  year's 
total  was  $125,850.24  with  some 
2,713  alumni  contributing. 

"This  support  comes  at  a  time 
when  unrest  and  campus  disturb- 
ances are  sweeping  the  country. 
Thus  it  is  doubly  important  in 
that    it    illustrates    the    depth    of 


loyalty  of  W.P.I,  alumni,"  said 
Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44, 
Chairman  of  the  Fund  Board. 

"We  cannot  rest  on  our  laurels," 
he  continued.  "The  needs  of  the 
college  are  very  great.  Scholarship 
aid  continues  to  be  a  problem.  It 
is  in  this  area  that  alumni  have 
traditionally  aided  the  college.  In 
next  year's  fund  we  hope  to  be  able 
to  increase  our  support." 

The  latest  totals  indicate  that 
the  Pittsburgh  Alumni  Chapter  con- 
tinues in  the  lead.  More  than  57% 
of  the  alumni  living  within  the 
chapter  have  contributed  to  the 
fund.  The  chairman  of  the  pro- 
gram is  Donald  M.  McNamara,  '55. 

Following  Pittsburgh  is  the  Rhode 


Island  Chapter,  with  48%  partici- 
pating, and  the  Cleveland  Chapter, 
with  43%.  The  respective  area 
chairmen  are  Otto  A.  Wahlrab,  '54, 
and  David  A.  Pratt,  '56. 

Class  totals  were  not  available  at 
press  time  and  will  be  covered  in 
the  next  issue. 

Chairman  Donahue  noted  one  dis- 
turbing aspect;  namely,  the  drop  in 
percentage  of  alumni  contributing 
to  the  fund.  "We  know  that  in 
1963-64,  the  last  fund  before  the; 
Centennial  Fund,  some  46%  of 
alumni  participated.  In  the  first 
program  after  the  Centennial  Fund, 
last  year's  program,  30%  con- 
tributed. This  past  year  the  figure 
will  be  over  30%.  Obviously,  some- 
thing  has  occurred  in  those  inter- 
vening years,  1964—67,  that  has 
caused  this  percentage  drop.  Frank- 
ly, we  are  not  sure  what  is  the 
cause.  We  would  welcome  any 
thoughts  that  you  may  have.  Ad- 
dress your  comments  to  me  in 
care  of  the  Alumni  Association  at 
W.P.I.,  zip  code  01609." 


ENGINEERING   INGENUITY  .    .    .    . 


key  to  industrial  progress 


A  saving  in  time  is  a  saving  of  money  in  today's  fast- 
moving  world.  All  these  parts  were  ground  in  one  minute 
whereas  previous  cycle  time  required  9  seconds  per  piece. 
This  saving  produces  200  extra  pieces  per  hour,  or  4,800 
extra  pieces  per  day. 

The  new  Heald  Model  SCF90,  designed  through  engi- 
neering ingenuity,  features  table  reciprocation  of  up  to  400 
cycles  per  minute.  This  means  faster  over-all  stock  removal, 
better  surface  finish,  cooler  operation.  And  more  frequent 
in-process  bore  measurement  gives  better  sizing  accuracy 
than  ever  before. 

But  that's  not  all.  The  new  3-plane  loader  mechanism 
performs  the  complete  loading  sequence  in  only  one  half 
of  one  second! 

The  key  to  industrial  progress  is  engineering  ingenuity 
and  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald — where  metalworking  needs 
meet  new  ideas. 

THE     HEALD     MACHINE     COMPANY 

ASSOCIATE  OF  THE  CINCINNATI  MIIUNG  MACHINE  COMPANY 

Worcester,    Massachusetts   01606     U.S.A. 
34 


I  in:  Jot  iin  vi. 


Reunion  Roundup 


1904 

The  shadows  lengthen! 

Only  two  of  the  old  guard  of  the  Class 
of  1904,  Roberts  and  Rankin,  got  together 
for  their  annual  reunion  on  Friday,  June 
6th. 

Webber,  who  was  with  us  last  year, 
wrote  that  physical  infirmities  prevented 
him  from  leaving  Florida  to  come  north 
this  year.  As  the  ranks  grow  thinner,  two 
members,  Darling  and  Howland,  have 
died  since  our  last  meeting.  No  word  was 
received  from  any  other  classmates. 

After  a  trip  around  the  campus  to  see 
the  new  developments  there,  the  two  old 
timers  settled  down  at  the  Worcester 
Country  Club  to  quietly  reminisce  on  past 
glories  and  present  pains. 

With  the  ladies,  Myrtle  Roberts  and 
Ethel  Rankin,  there  were  four  to  enjoy 
the  good  food  at  the  club  and  to  share  the 
joys  of  fellowship  which  have  grown 
stronger  over  the  years. 

Alfred  E.  Rankin,  Secretary 

1908 

The  Class  of  1908  did  not  attempt  to 
stage  a  formal  Class  Reunion  this  year, 
having  attained  their  goal  of  the  60th 
Reunion  last  year.  However,  Reunion 
Luncheon  on  the  Hill  was  attended  by 
Mrs.  Robert  H.  Goddard,  Mrs.  H.  Clayton 
Kendall,  Herbert  Carleton,  Leon  Hitch- 
cock, and  Donald  Simonds. 

Donald  D.  Simonds,  Secretary 

1909 

We  made  our  headquarters  and  en- 
joyed our  Class  Reunion  Dinner  at  the 
Worcester  Holiday  Inn,  which  we  found 
very  satisfactory.  Friday  afternoon  we 
scattered  to  visit  old  scenes  and  friends. 
Gone,  alas,  from  Front  Street  is  Poli's, 
where  the  unregenerate  (no  '09'ers)  used 
to  drop  peanuts  on  the  bald  heads  below. 
Fortunately,  we  were  given  maps  showing 
the  new  buildings,  or  we  would  hardly 
have  known  where  we  were. 

Friday  evening  we  met  for  dinner  with 
many  a  "Do  you  remember"  and  "What 
about  Joe."  At  table  were  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
George  Barratt;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lester 
Carter;  Mrs.  Dorothy  Gates,  daughter  of 
Arthur  Greenwood  (Arthur  was  a  cousin 
of  Mrs.  Carter);  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wilfred 
Jones;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  El  win  Kidder; 
Joseph  Schofield;  Ralph  Whitmore;  and 
his  grandson,  Thomas  Brazeau. 

The  Journal 


thanks  for  word  from  those  unable  to  be 
with  us. 

After  a  short  business  meeting  and 
general  "gab  fest"  we  all  enjoyed  dinners 
from  the  regular  menu  which  were  tradi- 
tionally good.  Following  dinner  and  more 
talk  which  included  delight  that  our  flag 
pole  and   1911   banner  once  more  graced 


1909 


Frank  Aguirre  in  Florida  and  Frank 
Hawkes  in  California  both  had  plane 
tickets  to  the  show,  but  both  landed  in 
bed  with  sudden  illnesses.  There  were 
many  expressions  of  regret  for  them  and 
that  slow  recuperation  from  a  recent  opera- 
tion kept  Frank  Roys  at  home  and  that  a 
relapse  had  taken  Jerry  Howe  to  a  nursing 
home  again. 

Saturday  morning  the  mechanics  in  our 
group  made  the  pilgrimage  to  ChafBns 
and  were  again  astonished  at  the  great 
changes  there.  We  were  back  on  the  Hill 
in  time  for  the  ritual  of  class  pictures 
before  the  Alumni  Luncheon.  We  were 
joined  there  by  Mrs.  Claire  Dugdale,  who 
had  driven  up  from  New  York  to  join  her 
father,  Ralph  Whitmore. 

Ralph  D.  Whitmore 

1911 

The  Class  of  1911  held  its  annual  re- 
union (the  58th)  on  Friday  evening,  June 
6,  at  the  Sterling  Inn,  Sterling,  Mass. 

Five  classmates  attended  with  the  wives 
of  four  and,  as  a  special  guest,  Mrs.  "Pat" 
Hanaver. 

The  party  was  composed  of  the  follow- 
ing: Mr.  and  Mrs.  "Dave"  Carpenter, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hugh  Reid,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
"Bill"  (Clarence)  Taft,  Mr.  LeRoy 
Holden,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Howard  Chace. 

Letters  from  some  members  who  could 
not  attend   were  passed  around  and  our 


the  West  Campus,  the  party  broke  up  to 
travel  home  in  a  heavy  thundershower. 

Howard  P.  Chace,  President 

1912 

There  were  ten  of  us  at  the  dinner  at 
the  Marlboro  Country  Club,  one  less  than 
last  year,  as  follows:  Joseph  and  Helen 
Granger,  Eugene  and  Gertrude  Powers, 
Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett,  Leon  and 
Margaret  Treadwell,  Edward  Tucker,  and 
Harrison  Brown.  These  are  the  ones  who 
meet  almost  every  year.  On  Saturday 
we  were  joined  by  James  and  Henrietta 
Shea,  making  12  at  the  luncheon. 

The  Herbert  Foster  Taylor  Student 
Aid  Fund  has  already  been  reported  to 
class  members:  The  principal,  now 
$16,522.94,  cannot  be  touched  but  there 
is  $3,475.78  available  for  use  when  needed. 

Eight  more  have  died  during  the  year, 
the  latest  being  Wilfred  Peel  on  May  23. 
This  makes  a  loss  of  20  in  two  years  and 
leaves  the  present  membership  37.  An- 
swers to  our  questionnaire  gave  us  contact 
with  25  members;  over  two-thirds. 

Eric  Benedict  is  very  active  in  civic 
affairs,  carpentry,  plumbing,  entertaining 
grandchildren,  and  Florida  in  the  winter. 
He  was  invited  to  be  a  deacon  of  his 
church  but  in  humility  he  declined.  He 
sent  a  bulletin  of  the  church  in  Harwich- 
port  for  May  25  in  which  it  was  noted  that 
the   chancel   flowers   were   in   memory   of 

35 


Wallace  Montague  given  by  Mrs.  Mon- 
tague. Howard  King  is  in  Scarborough, 
Maine,  for  the  summer.  He  has  had 
trouble  with  his  eyes  so  that  he  has 
difficulty  in  seeing  clearly  three  feet  away. 
He  can't  read  newspaper  headlines.  His 
son  and  family  now  live  with  him  and  his 
daughter-in-law  does  his  reading  for  him. 
He  does  all  his  writing  on  the  typewriter 
in  hopes  of  hitting  the  right  keys.  But 
we  may  yet  see  him  at  a  reunion.  Holman 
Waring  is  one  of  our  busy  bees  having 
given  six  lectures  to  universities  and  pro- 
fessional engineers  on  water  pollution  in 
eight  states  in  the  Ohio  River  Valley. 
You  may  wonder  what  an  engineering- 
consultant  to  Camp  Fire  Girls  can  be.  A 
proposed  dam  was  in  danger  of  causing  a 
large  girls'  camp  to  be  condemned.  Hol- 
man consulted  with  the  Washington 
engineers  and  succeeded  in  getting  the 
dam  location  changed  and  the  camp 
saved.  He  offers  the  advice:  Associate 
with  youth  but  don't  try  to  keep  up  with 
them.  Nibs  Taylor  has  written  two  lively 
letters  telling  how  he  overcame  a  spell  of 
depression  after  a  hospital  siege  and  re- 
gained his  usual  poise  to  operate  a  fleet  of 
home  electrical  machines.  I  had  never 
heard  of  an  electric  hoe  but  he  has  it.  His 
advice  is  to  keep  well  and  reasonably 
happy.  Don't  worry  about  the  new  gener- 
ation; they  will  come  through  just  as  we 
did.  Johnny  Beck  is  a  real  Floridiau  ami 
keeps  busy  with  his  trees,  plants,  and 
flowers.  His  activities  include  the  local 
Sigma  Xi.  Tech  may  be  the  only  tie  left 
with    the    north    but   it   is   a   strong   one. 

Carl  Norton   has  I n  one  from   whom  we 

have  heard  little  so  it  was  a  pleasure  to 
get  his  letter.     He  is  still  active  with  golf. 

36 


bridge,  etc.  and  spends  time  with  children 
and  grandchildren.  Harland  Stuart  has 
written  before  of  the  many  activities  in 
which  he  is  engaged.  We  cautiously  sug- 
gest that,  now  that  Ike  Eisenhower  is 
gone  some  of  the  leadership  of  the  highly 
historic  town  of  Gettysburg  has  fallen  on 
Harland.  (This  may  be  truer  than  we 
realize.)  Vaughn  Griffin  is  another 
Floridian  who  keeps  occupied.  But  he 
mentions  recent  trips  to  New  England, 
Canada,  the  Southwest,  and  Mexico.  He 
advises  that  keeping  busy  with  projects 
will  make  the  most  of  sunset  years. 
Clinton  Smith  is  still  connected  with  the 
local  Transit  company.  After  cataract 
operations,   he  is   unable  to   drive  but   is 


happy  he  is  able  to  read  again.  In  January, 
1968,  Ralph  Norton  fractured  a  hip.  After 
recovery  he  enjoyed  a  few  weeks  in 
Florida  but  in  August  he  fell  again  and 
fractured  the  other  hip.  He  was  able  to 
return  home  for  Christmas  but  is  still  in 
a  wheel  chair.  Our  President,  Joe  Granger, 
still  attends  his  office  or  travels  for  high- 
way and  hospital  connections.  Jim  Shea 
seems  to  be  on  the  board  of  half  the  col- 
leges in  New  England  (perhaps  I  exagger- 
ate). Frank  McGowan  and  Leon  Tread- 
well  are  still  active  in  business.  Frank 
Plaisted,  Roger  Towne,  and  Guy  Whitney 
had  little  to  report  beyond  the  record  of 
children  and  grandchildren  which  all  mem- 
bers listed.  The  letter  from  George 
Clifford  came  after  the  reunion.  He  is 
not  very  successful  in  his  hobby  of  avoid- 
ing doctors  and  hospitals.  Finally, 
Secretary-Treasurer  Harrison  Brown  is  like 
a  one-armed  paper  hanger  with  desk  work 
for  the  same  double  office  in  three  other 
organizations. 

If  I  may  be  able  to  sum  up  the  general 
attitude:  There  are  drawbacks  which 
make  life  less  comfortable  than  before,  if 
no  more  than  glasses,  false  teeth,  hearing 
aids,  and  shiny  domes,  but  we  are  able  to 
surmount  them  and  really  enjoy  our 
golden  years. 

At  our  50th  in  1962,  1912  adopted  a 
policy  of  inviting  widows  of  our  members 
to  all  our  reunions.  They  also  receive 
copies  of  all  letters  sent  out  to  the  class 
which  they  do  appreciate  as  indicated  by 
a  few  answers  received  each  year.  This 
year  the  following  responded:  Mrs.  Lester 
Greene  (Sylvia),  Mrs.  Archibald  Hossack 
(Doris),  Mrs.  Harold  Nickerson  (Marl 
jorie),  and  Mrs.  Joseph  Roberts  (Anna). 
Mrs.    William    Turner    (Jessie)    wrote   in 


1912 


Tiik  Journal 


February  giving  the  details  of  Bill's  sudden 
death.  Mrs.  Harris  Rice  (Geneva)  ex- 
pressed her  appreciation  of  the  gift  by  the 
1912  class  of  the  book  entitled  "Theory  of 
sets"  to  the  W.P.I.  Mathematics  Depart- 
nent  in  memory  of  Harris  Rice,  former 
lead  of  that  department. 

Harrison  G.  Brown,  Secretary 

1914 

What  a  marvelous  and  enjoyable  time 
xe  did  have,  the  Class  of  1914,  at  our 
ii5th  Reunion  in  West  Brookfield  held  on 
Friday  and  Saturday,  June  6th  and  7th, 
if  this  year,  1969. 

To  Mike  Dufault  and  Ernie  Hedstrom, 
md  their  wives,  we  extend  our  sincere 
hanks  for  the  hard  work  they  did  to  make 
iur  party  a  success.  Both  of  them  arrived 
iar]y  in  the  morning  to  greet  the  class  at 
he  Copper  Lantern  Motor  Lodge,  a 
ovely,  clean,  modern  and  comfortable 
establishment  just  a  short  distance  from 
he  Salem  Cross  Inn,  where  we  later 
lathered  to  enjoy  a  substantial  lunch  in  a 
irivate  dining  room  at  12:45  p.m. 

Following  a  leisurely  meal,  we  ad- 
ourned  back  to  the  motel  for  an  afternoon 
■f  relaxation,  visits  with  friends,  and  card 
ilaying  by  the  bridge  experts  of  the 
^lass.  Since  it  was  a  lovely  sunny  day, 
aany  of  us  sat  in  groups  in  the  comfortable 
■utdoor  chairs  on  the  green  lawn  out  back, 
nd  just  talked,  asking  and  answering 
[uestions  about  ourselves,  and  speculating 
bout  the  world  of  today. 

At  six  o'clock  we  again  returned  to  the 
ialem  Cross  Inn  where,  in  a  spacious 
irivate  room,  an  interesting  cocktail  hour 
?as  thoroughly  enjoyed.  Following  this 
riendly  hour  of  talk,  the  Inn  once  again 
>ut  on  a  delicious  meal,  a  roast  beef 
inner,  well  and  properly  served.  Our 
pecial  guests  for  the  evening,  Lesley  Small 
rom  Spencer,  and  her  brother,  Jimmy,  a 
?ech  man  himself,  as  her  escort,  were 
Teatly  enjoyed  by  our  group. 

Lesley,  age  18,  is  one  of  the  first  coeds 
t  Tech.  For  her  Freshman  year,  she 
veraged  a  4.0,  which  means  all  "A's"  in 
er  studies.  Those  of  us  who  remembered 
ack  to  our  own  Freshman  year,  when  so 
aany  worked  so  hard  to  obtain  only 
assing  marks  in  some  of  our  courses,  took 

real  look  of  respect  at  this  beautiful,  but 
lodest  young  lady.  Asked  after  the 
inner,  why  she  had  decided  on  Tech,  she 
rose  and  briefly  gave  some  interesting 
sasons     for     her     choice.       Incidentally, 

rother  Jimmy  is  also  a  4.0  man  and  he, 
oo,  was  regarded  with  real  esteem  by 
he  members  of  our  group. 

President  Dufault  then  presented  Lesley 
dth  a  sealed  envelope,  which  he  informed 

er  contained  some  green  pieces  of  paper 

rom  the  Class  of  1914.     She  could  use 

The  Journal 


1914 


them,  he  told  her,  in  any  way  that  a 
young  college  student  thought  appropri- 
ate. On  a  motion  of  a  member  of  the 
Class,  she  was  unanimously  voted  the 
"Honorary  Sweetheart"  of  the  Class  of  1914. 

At  the  short  business  meeting  following 
our  guests'  departure,  President  Dufault 
discussed  and  explained  some  of  the  details 
of  the  Class  fund  which  our  Class  had 
given  to  the  College  at  our  50th  Reunion 
in  1964.  He  explained  that  an  additional 
one  hundred  dollars  had  apparently  been 
contributed  by  someone  in  the  interim 
period. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  business  meet- 
ing, Mary  and  Earl  Hughes  showed  inter- 
esting and  lovely  moving  pictures  taken 
on  their  recent  trip  this  year  around  the 
world.  In  her  story,  Mary  took  us  to  see 
the  wild  animals  of  Africa,  parts  of  India, 
such  as  Bombay,  the  lovely  Taj  Mahal, 
the  city  of  Hong  Kong,  and  to  many  other 
exotic  places  of  the  globe  that  we  read 
about  but  never  see.  A  round  of  ap- 
plause, as  a  thank  you  to  Mary  and  Earl 
ended  our  55th  Reunion  Dinner. 

Saturday  morning  the  ladies  of  the  West 
Brookfield  Congregational  Church  put  on 
an  excellent  and  tasty  breakfast  in  their 
lovely  white  church  opposite  the  village 
green.  Following  breakfast  most  of  us 
went  back  to  Tech  to  stroll  around  the 
grounds,  meet  and  talk  to  friends  from 
other  classes,  and  to  attend  the  meeting 
of  the  Fifty  Year  Associates.  After  the 
usual  picture  taking,  our  Class  was  well 
represented  at  the  Alumni  Dinner  in 
Morgan  Hall. 

Not  all  of  us  were  present  at  all  meetings 
and  all  places  at  the  same  time,  but  there 


were  24  people  who  sat  at  our  Reunion 
Dinner  Friday  night  at  the  Salem  Cross 
Inn,  plus  our  two  guests.  All  told  there 
were  25  members,  including  wives  who 
came  to  the  Reunion. 

The  following  members  and  wives  of 
our  class  attended  our  Reunion:  Ray  and 
Lou  Crouch,  Jack  and  Rhea  Desmond, 
Mike  and  Chris  Dufault,  Paul  Glover,  Al 
and  Anna  Hedlund,  Ernie  and  Bertha 
Hedstrom,  Bud  and  Dorothy  Hennessy, 
Earl  and  Mary  Hughes,  Salt  and  Anne 
Knowlton,  Kirt  and  Eleanor  Marsh, 
George  and  Alice  Smith,  Clayt  and  Marion 
Wilcox,  Chet  Inman,  and  Horace  Cole. 

Fifty-five  years  out  of  Tech  is  a  long, 
long  time!  We  are  no  longer  young,  but  at 
least  all  of  us  felt  that  way  at  our  party. 
I  am  sure  that  not  one  of  us  had  any 
regrets  in  coming. 

We  made  it,  but  who  back  in  1914  ever 
thought  we  would?  For  that  matter  what 
one  of  us  ever  even  considered  such  an 
absurd  figure?  Fifty-five  years?  Who 
would  even  want  to  be  alive  after  fifty-five 
years?  But  we  are  alive!  And  we  still  do 
enjoy  life  and  boy  did  we  enjoy  our  Re- 
union, every  single  one  of  us! 

We  are  indeed  grateful  for  our  ability 
to  attend.  We  are  also  grateful  to  our 
college  which  gave  us  the  education  to 
permit  us  to  lead  useful,  happy,  profitable, 
and  worthwhile  lives  in  the  communities 
in  which  we  chose  to  live  and  work. 

Since  the  year  of  our  graduation  in  1914, 
many  of  our  classmates  have  died,  a  few 
have  never  returned,  and  some  have  re- 
turned only  a  few  times.  Those  of  us  who 
regularly  come  back  think  about  you  who 
do  not.     We  hold  you  all  in  kindly  esteem 

37 


and  we  wish  we  could  see  you.  We  send 
you,  everyone  who  is  living,  our  friendly 
and  fraternal  best  wishes. 

Eli/wood  N.  "Bud"  Hennessy, 
Secretary 
1919 

The  Class  of  1919  held  its  50th  reunion 
dinner  at  the  Worcester  Country  Club 
through  the  hospitality  of  John  Coghlin 
on  Friday  evening,  June  6th.  Forty-four 
people,  including  24  classmates  with  their 
wives,  enjoyed  a  steak  dinner  preceded  by 
a  cocktail  hour. 

We  observed  a  moment  of  silence  in 
memory  of  deceased  members. 

A  few  letters  were  read  from  classmates, 
including  one  from  Hobart  Whitney  of 
Pensacola,  Florida.  He  said  he  was  un- 
able to  make  the  trip  because  he  had 
broken  his  back  a  year  and  a  half  ago. 
Today  he  gets  around  quite  well.  Burton 
Marsh  decided  not  to  come  because  of 
pressing  work  activity  in  Washington.  A 
letter  from  Mrs.  Judah  Humphrey  told  us 
that  Judah,  our  Class  President,  was  phys- 
ically unable  to  attend  reunions  and  re- 
quested that  we  elect  a  permanent  Presi- 
dent this  year.  We  then  unanimously 
elected  Dr.  George  R.  Rich  as  President. 

Each  classmate  was  called  on  to  intro- 
duce his  wife  and  tell  briefly  of  his  last 
occupational  engagement  and  his  present 
retirement  status. 

I  introduced  George  R.  Rich  who  talked 
on  "Embarrassing  Moments  in  the  Life  of 
an  Engineer."  His  extensive  activity  of  a 
lifetime  on  some  of  the  largest  hydro- 
electric projects  in  the  world  made  a  most 
interesting  period  of  entertainment. 

Since  it  was  getting  late,  our  further 
plans    of    showing    project    pictures    was 


given  up  and  we  went  our  several  ways  in 
the  pouring  rain. 

The  Wachusett  Motor  Lodge  was  the 
living  headquarters  for  all  who  had  come 
from  a  distance  so  we  started  from  there 
for  a  tour  of  the  campus  on  Friday  morn- 
ing. The  trip  included  a  visit  to  the 
Harrington  Auditorium  and  athletic  build- 
ing which  was  amply  described  by  the 
campus  guard.  Next  was  a  visit  to  the 
new  George  C.  Gordon  Library  where  we 
were  conducted  by  a  lovely  young  lady 
through  the  various  department  rooms. 
We  completed  our  tour  with  a  trip  to  the 
Alden  Research  Laboratories  at  Chaffins 
Village  in  Holden.  A  graduate  student 
guide,  a  native  of  Colombia,  S.A.,  ex- 
plained the  various  projects,  each  in  its 
own  building  as  well  as  several  setups  out- 
side for  nuclear  river  heating  problems  for 
Vernon,  Vt.,  and  the  Northfield  pumped 
storage  project.  Most  of  our  group  had 
not  seen  the  new  Laboratory,  a  surpris- 
ingly ample,  modern  structure  of  concrete 
and  brick  which  includes  a  large  lecture 
room,  ample  office  space,  study  rooms, 
and  a  large  research  building. 

Luncheon  at  the  Franklin  Manor  was 
attended  by  about  28  graduates  and  their 
wives  and  President  Harry  P.  Storke. 
After  lunch  he  talked  to  us  of  some  of  the 
problems  and  happy  solutions  which  have 
marked  his  seven  years  as  President  of  the 
Institute. 

During  the  afternoon  a  group  went  to 
Westboro  to  the  home  of  Howard  Foster  to 
see  his  very  beautiful  formal  gardens,  his 
pool,  and  naturalized  wooded  area  with 
its  lovely  walk  and  unusual  trees.  Some 
played  golf  and  others  went  back  to  the 
campus  for  an  extended  look. 


1919 


The  class  has  not  had  a  reunion  since 
our  40th  in  1959. 

I  expect  the  graduate  coming  from  the 
greatest  distance  was  Robert  Peterson  and 
his  wife  who  came  from  Pineland,  Florida. 

Saturday  morning  the  class  was  wel- 
comed into  the  "Fifty-year  Associates"  at 
their  meeting  in  Daniels  Hall. 

Group  pictures  were  taken  of  the  class 
of  1919  with  their  wives.  Each  person 
wore  a  replica  of  a  World  War  I  helmet 
which  was  adopted  as  a  symbol  of  identi- 
fication for  the  class.  They  were  made  of 
plastic.  The  mold  was  made  by  Mayo's 
youngest  son,  Nathan.  After  casting,  the 
helmets  were  painted  and  finished  by  the 
Mayos.  Our  class  had  been  broken  up 
because  many  were  drafted  into  World 
War  I.  A  few  were  able  to  return  to 
graduate  with  their  class  of  1919  but 
others  had  to  wait  to  be  graduated  in  1920. 

Luncheon  for  the  honored  classes  was 
held  in  Morgan  Hall. 

Our  class  was  awarded  the  Attendance 
Cup  for  having  the  highest  percentage 
(computer  calculated)  of  members  present. 
The  cup  was  accepted  by  President  Rich 
and  will  be  kept  at  the  Institute. 

Robert  Sessions,  class  gift  chairman,  an- 
nounced that  the  Class  of  1919  is  making 
a  gift  of  over  $70,000  to  be  equally  divided, 
one-half  for  the  purchase  of  books  for  the 
Gordon  Library  and  the  other  half  for  the 
establishment  of  a  Harry  P.  Storke 
Scholarship  Fund.  More  than  one-half  of 
this  amount  was  given  by  a  classmate, 
Leland  Durkee,  who  recently  passed  away. 
We  have  been  told  that  this  was  the 
largest  amount  ever  given  by  a  class. 
This  is  ample  evidence  of  the  extensive 
effort  of  Sessions  and  Coghlin  in  soliciting 
the  members  for  this  class  gift. 

The  classmates  attending  the  luncheon 
were  each  presented  a  beautifully  mounted 
50th  year  diploma  by  President  Storke. 

The  class  disbanded  after  the  luncheon. 
Many  stayed  for  other  graduation  activi- 
ties and  others  returned  to  their  homes. 

Howakd  A.  Mayo, 
Corresponding  Secretary 

1924 
The  Class  of  1924  returned  to  the  Pub- 
lick  House  iii  Sturbridge  for  tin-  Forty- 
fiftli  reunion  on  the  evening  of  June  6th. 
After  a  social  hour  anil  dinner,  Helge 
Johnson  very  casually  conducted  a  busi- 
ness meeting  with  the  enthusiastic  cc* 
operation  of  Norman  Alberti,  and  the 
members  of  tin-  class  present.  Two  second 
string  treasurers.  Hooper  and  Storms,  weN 
nominated  and  elected  by  acclaim  bj  tin' 
others  present.  This  atmosphere  was  not 
conducive  to  the  appointment  of  a  com- 
mittee for  the  important  upcoming  50th, 
•.,,   Beige  took   the   matter  under  advise- 


38 


Tin.  |ni  UN  vi. 


merit.  The  less  serious  part  of  the  evening 
program  was  handled  by  Norman  Alberti. 
All  of  the  wives  present  gave  brief  family 
histories  mainly  concerned  with  children 
and  grandchildren.  Then  the  men  were 
allowed  to  recount  their  activities  outside 
the  home.  It  turned  out  that  while  many 
were  officially  retired  they  were  all  keeping 
very  busy  and  happy  withal. 

The  class  members  attended  by  their 
wives  were  Norman  Alberti,  Solon  Bart- 
lett,  Edward  Burke,  Thomas  Counihan, 
Warren  Fish,  Leslie  Hooper,  Harry  Hurd, 
Helge  Johnson,  Frank  Linsley,  Clarence 
McElroy,  Arthur  Miller,  Paul  Ronca, 
Albert  Storms,  John  Styffe,  and  Donald 
Wilson.  Carrol  Tucker  and  Ray  Wilcox 
were  unattended. 

Preparations  have  been  started  and  we 
are  all  looking  forward  to  our  fiftieth. 

Leslie  J.  Hooper 

1929 

Thirty-six  members  and  wives  of  the 
1929  class  conducted  their  40th  reunion 
at  the  Publick  House,  Sturbridge,  on  June 
7. 

Prof.  Kenneth  J.  Merriam  and  Mrs. 
Merriam,  who  had  been  guests  at  1929's 
10th  reunion,  were  repeat  guests  of  honor. 
Prof.  Merriam,  who  goes  on  emeritus 
status  this  year,  called  the  roll  of  many  of 
the  faculty  familiar  to  '29'ers  in  their  stu- 
dent days.  He  recounted  some  of  the 
early  history  of  the  first  class  to  take  the 
aero  option  (1929  of  course)  at  Tech,  in 
keeping  with  the  aerospace  theme  of  the 
reunion. 

We  only  wish  more  of  that  famous  first 
class  could  have  been  with  us  to  enjoy 
Prof.  Merriam's  recollections  and  to  cele- 
brate the  occasion.     He  brought  a  marvel- 


1924 


ous  collection  of  aero  option  memorabilia 
to  the  reunion  and  some  of  the  pictures 
were  a  revelation  to  the  reunion's  high 
flyers. 

The  committee  in  charge  was:  Stephen 
Donahue,  chairman:  Francis  Kennedy, 
Milton  Labonte,  Carl  Carlson,  Andrew 
O'Connell,  Diran  Deranian,  and  Francis 
Wiesman.  They  came  up  in  their  usual 
style  with  a  fine  banquet  and  a  heart- 
warming evening  for  the  young  in  heart 
'29'ers.  The  favors  were  a  gold  Tech  tie 
bar  for  the  gents  and  a  gold  Tech  medallion 
for  the  ladies. 

Other  class  members  present  were 
Frederick  Baldwin,  Wayne  Berry,  Nathan- 
iel Clapp,  William  Crosby,  Boris  Dephoure, 


Lester  Frank,  Holbrook  Horton,  Bernard 
Joseph,  Harold  Richmond,  Richard  Stone, 
and  Russell  Wiley.  Arthur  Knight  pre- 
sided. Labonte  was  elected  chairman  of 
the  next  one. 

Boris  Dephoure  traveled  the  greatest 
distance  to  the  reunion,  from  Florida,  and 
Mrs.  Arthur  Knight  took  home  to  Water- 
ford,  Vt.,  the  trophy  for  grandmother  the 
most  times. 

The  class  of  1929  was  runner-up  for  the 
attendance  trophy  at  the  alumni  luncheon, 
figured  on  a  percentage  basis  of  class  en- 
rollment (1919,  celebrating  its  50th,  was 
the  winner). 

The  '29  class  set  the  style  for  identifica- 
tion at  the  activities  on  the  Hill,  a  six-inch 
lapel  button,  with  a  big  you-know-what 
numeral  in  the  middle.  No  more  hats  and 
canes  for  this  bunch. 

HOLBHOOK  HORTON 

1934 

Pleasant  Valley  Country  Club  was  the 
scene  of  the  35th  reunion  for  the  Class  of 
1934.  This  spot  was  a  beautiful  setting 
including  both  the  course  and  the  club- 
house. None  of  the  class  took  advantage 
of  an  opportunity  to  play  on  the  famous 
course. 

However,  everyone  showed  great  en- 
thusiasm at  the  pre-prandial  libation  and 
later  with  fabulous  roast  beef  and  lobster. 
We  had  no  formal  program  but  lots  and 
lots  of  delightful  talk  about  old  times 
and  present  activities.  Tory  and  Tony 
Cowal  showed  some  wonderful  color 
movies  of  our  previous  reunions.  We  had 
a  total  of  40  including  class  members, 
wives,  and  guests. 

Members  attending  were:  Luther 
Leavitt,   Ev   Sellew,   Warren  Davenport, 

39 


1934 


John  Birch,  Ed  Rothemich,  Tony  Cowal, 
Charlie  McEIroy,  Warren  Snow,  Howard 
Whittum,  Bert  Anderson,  Paul  Sullivan, 
Bert  Hammarstrom,  Bill  Burpee,  Gus 
Larson,  Joe  Flanagan,  Harold  Bell, 
Charley  Frary,  Charley  Dayton,  Howard 
Stockwell,  Warren  Burns,  Don  Vibber. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Birch  had  as  their 
guest  Miss  Dale  Mclnnis  of  Lagonillas, 
Venezuela,  a  student  at  Cushing  Academy, 
Ashburnham,  Massachusetts. 

Howard  Whittum 

1939 

The  30  members  of  the  Class  of  1939, 
including  wives,  who  met  for  the  30th 
reunion  at  the  Pleasant  Valley  Country 
Club,  agreed  unanimously  that  no  one 
there  had  changed  a  bit.  It  is  assumed 
that  any  change  must  be  in  the  ones  that 
could  not  make  it!  An  informal  cocktail 
hour  and  dinner  was  held  after  several 
members  enjoyed  the  famous  and  beauti- 
ful Pleasant  Valley  golf  course.  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Schwieger  were  guests,  and  Al 
brought  us  up  to  date  with  a  short  talk 
on  changes  in  college  thinking,  as  well  as 
growth  in  numbers  and  physical  plant. 

Jake  and  Mrs.  Hagopian  won  the  prize 
for  coming  the  farthest  (California),  al- 
though the  winner  had  to  be  decided  by 
lottery,  since  three  others  came  from 
there,  too.  Bud  and  Mrs.  Jacques  won 
the  prize  for  the  newest  grandchild,  and 
Bob  and  Mrs.  Martin  flew  off  (to  West 
Palm  Beach)  with  the  door  prize. 

On  Saturday,  after  the  official  school 
festivities,  about  20  members  again  met. 
this  time  for  a  cocktail  hour  and  buffet  at 
Brad  Ordway's  home  in  Sturbridge. 

The   committee   heard   from    mam     who 


could  not  come,  but  we  hope  that  the 
next  time  around  there  will  be  less  conflict 
with  weddings  and  graduations,  and  more 
will  be  able  to  join  in  the  fun. 

1944 

The  reunion  of  the  Class  of  1944  was 
just  great. 

A  small  group  of  loyal  members  who 
obviously  had  plenty  of  leisure  time  on 
their  hands  worked  in  a  pleasant  after- 
noon of  golf  on  Friday  at  Wachusett 
Country  Club.  The  planning  committee 
thought  that  a  few  people  might  come  in 
to  Worcester  early;  so  Kim  and  Betty 
Woodbury  offered  to  open  their  home  for 
the  few  who  might  want  to  drop  in.    About 


50  showed  up,  which  turned  out  to  be  an 
enjoyable  warm-up  for  the  big  day  on 
Saturday,  especially  for  the  Woodburys. 

Saturday  dawned  clear  and  bright,  and 
the  members  of  the  class  showed  up  not 
so  clear  and  bright  for  the  class  picture 
about  11  o'clock.  Lenny  Israel  had  made 
arrangements  for  the  fancy  straw  hats 
that  you  see  in  the  picture.  As  you  can 
also  see,  none  of  the  members  of  the  class 
have  changed  a  bit  in  the  last  25  years. 
So  there  was  a  good  deal  of  friendly 
chatter  before  we  adjourned  to  Morgan 
Hall  for  the  Alumni  Luncheon.  Our 
class  dominated  the  hall,  at  which  a  few 
other  classes  were  modestly  represented. 
Naturally,  the  Class  of  '44  was  honored 
as  one  of  the  reunion  classes,  but  un- 
fortunately Jim  Donahue  was  called  on 
to  make  his  remarks  following  the  50-year 
class.  Their  remarks  were  brief — limited 
simply  to  their  announcement  that  they 
were  pledging  $70,000  to  the  school.  At 
that  point  Jim  was  ready  to  crawl  out  of 
the  room  rather  than  announce  our  class 
gift.  Jim  made  some  pleasant  remarks, 
and  announced  our  class  pledge  of  $4,000 
based  somehow  on  the  $1,700  or  so  that 
had  been  turned  in  up  to  that  point.  Jim 
sure  will  appreciate  any  further  help  you 
can  give  him  to  keep  him  honest,  and  out  of 
hock.  Then  to  add  to  our  indignity,  the 
50-year  class  took  the  prize  for  the  highest 
percentage  in  attendance. 

In  the  afternoon  we  toured  the  mag- 
nificent new  Harrington  Field  House  and 
the  impressive  new  Gordon  Library  which 
will  be  filled  with  books  contributed  from 
the  Class  of  '44  gift. 

But  then  came  the  best — the  banquet 
at   Franklin   Manor.      It   was   a   hilarious 


1939 


Id 


Tin:  Jot  i(N  vi. 


1944 


evening  starring  Jim  Donahue  supported 

by    Erl   Lagerholm   as   his   straight   man. 

There  were  informal  anecdotes  related  by 

a  number  of  members,  including  Al  Larkin, 

Bill    Raymond,    Hal    Blake,    and    Doctor 

(People  Doctor)  Al  Harder  and  his  People 

Doctor  wife.     Then  there  were  the  lively 

debates   about  the   outstanding   members 

of  the  class  as  follows: 

Came  the  farthest:   Nick   Economou   from 

Salt  Lake  City 

Came  the  shortest:   Chris   Terpo    (1    mile) 

and  Kim  Woodbury  (J"2  mile) 

Most  kids:  Bud  Mellor  (11) 

Most  Grandchildren:  Bud  Holbrook  (5) 

Newest  father:  John  Bjork  (5  months) 

Longest    sideburns:    Nick     Economou     (4 

inches  long  and  2  inches  wide) 

Least  Hair:  Jim  Dashner 

And  so  it  went,  long  into  the  pleasant 
evening. 

On  Saturday,  the  Class  of  1944  25th 
reunion  yearbooks,  a  collection  of  the 
questionnaires  returned  to  the  committee, 
were  distributed,  and  they  make  fascinat- 
ing reading.  If  you  would  like  one,  they 
can  be  purchased,  as  long  as  they  last,  from 
the  Alumni  Office  for  $5.00.  I  highly 
recommend  it,  and  it  will  help  bail  out 
Jim  on  the  class  pledge. 

Like  I  said,  the  reunion  of  the  Class  of 
'44  was  just  great. 

1944  Class  Picture 
Class  members,  starting  front  row,  left 
to  right: 

1st  row:  Hal  Blake,  Jim  Donahue,  Jim 
Dashner,  Buzz  Gerber,  Joe  Marcus,  Dave 
Field,  Bill  Raymond,  John  Patterson. 

The  Journal 


2nd  row:  Bud  Holbrook,  Al  Harder, 
Howie  Swenson,  Chris  Terpo,  Kim  Wood- 
bury, Dimi  Dimitroff,  John  Bjork,  Dick 
Holden. 

3rd  row:  Dick  Merrell,  Lenny  Israel,  Joe 
Gibson,  Sherm  Campbell,  Gordon  Ander- 
son, Einar  Eriksen. 

4th  row:  Nick  Economou,  Roy  Baharian, 
Rosie  Rosenthal,  Al  Larkin,  John  Lebour- 
veau,  Miles  Roth,  Paul  Pressel,  Lag 
Lagerholm. 

Kim  Woodbury 


We  welcome 
your  comments 

and  ideas 
concerning  the 

publication 
of  the  Journal. 


Please  address: 

Editor,  The  Journal 
Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester, 
Mass.  01609 


ALUMNI  COUNCIL  (Co 

near  future  the  Alumni  Association 
should  be  made  directly  responsible 
to  the  development  office  of  the 
college.  He  stated  that  it  was  his 
belief  that  this  was  in  the  best 
interests  of  all  concerned. 

The  Council  voted  to  reduce  next 
year's  appropriation  of  scholarships 
to  the  college  to  a  minimum  of 
$10,000  and  a  maximum  of  $21,000, 
providing  funds  are  available.  It 
had  been  the  policy  to  appropriate 
the  equivalent  of  ten  full  scholar- 
ships for  more  than  a  decade.  The 
reduction  was  made  in  order  to 
balance  the  budget. 

A  petition  for  alumni  living  in 
the  Wilmington  (Dela.)  area  for  the 
establishment  of  a  chapter  was 
approved. 

In  other  business,  the  Council 
heard  reports  of  committees  on  ad- 


ntinued  from  page  27) 

missions,  redisricting,  finance,  The 
Journal,  placement,  chapter  pro- 
grams, and  the  President's  Planning 
Group. 

On  the  previous  day,  the  Alumni 
Fund  Board  held  their  meeting.  At 
this  session,  they  learned  that  this 
year's  Alumni  Fund  was  well  on  its 
way  to  setting  another  record.  As 
of  June  4,  some  $112,000  had  been 
contributed  by  2,741  alumni.  This 
represents  an  increase  in  both  dol- 
lars and  donors.  The  Fund  Board, 
in  other  business,  discussed  and 
approved  the  plans  for  next  year's 
Alumni  Fund  and  also  recommended 
a  program  of  continuing  education. 

Re-elected  to  the  Fund  Board  by 
the  Council  were  Gordon  F.  Crow- 
ther,  '37,  and  Irving  James  Dona- 
hue, Jr.,  '44.  Donahue  was  re- 
elected Chairman. 

41 


Completed  Careers 


Frederic  Bonnet,  Jr.  (Honorary) 

Frederic  Bonnet,  Jr.  died  on  March  7, 
1969,  at  Ridley  Park,  Pa.  He  was  a 
professor  emeritus  of  chemistry  at  W.P.I., 
where  he  taught  from  1913-1918.  Later 
he  became  technical  adviser  and  director 
of  the  Standards  Dept.  of  American  Vis- 
cose Corp.  He  was  91  years  of  age  at 
the  time  of  his  death. 

Ernest  Mosman,  '96 

Ernest  Mosman,  '96,  died  on  March  19, 
1969,  at  Ridgecrest,  Calif. 

Brookline,  Mass.,  was  his  place  of 
birth  in  1871.  He  attended  secondary 
school  at  the  Bromfield  School  in  Harvard. 

He  held  several  jobs  in  the  Worcester 
area  prior  to  his  employment  by  the 
Naval  Gun  Factory  in  Washington,  D.C. 
In  1908  he  began  work  for  Suberg  Fabric 
and  Rubber  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  During 
World  War  I  he  was  a  captain  in  the 
Ordnance  Dept.  of  the  Rock  Island  Ar- 
senal, 111.,  where  he  was  responsible  for 
increasing  the  output  of  equipment. 
From  1919  to  1931  he  was  a  staff  engi- 
neer for  Management  Service  Co.  of 
Chicago,  111.  During  the  1930's,  he  was 
self-employed,  and  in  1940  he  became 
associated  with  the  Fairchild  Engineering 
Co.  of  Cleveland,  Ohio.  He  retired  in 
1946. 

He  married  the  former  Mary  E.  Law- 
rence in  1904.  They  had  three  sons  and 
three  daughters. 

In  his  later  years,  he  has  been  a  faithful 
attender   of   alumni   reunions   at    W.P.I. 

Charles  A.  Conant,  '01 

Charles  A.  Conant,  '01,  died  on  July  6, 
1967,  at  McHenry,  111.  He  lived  at  1714 
North  Ave.  He  had  been  ill  with  heart 
disease  for  several  years. 

He  was  born  in  1879  at  Leominster, 
Mass.  He  majored  in  electrical  engi- 
neering. 

Little  is  known  of  his  business  career. 
We  do  know  that  he  worked  with  Spooner 
&  Merrill,  Inc.  of  Chicago,  retiring  in 
1948.  Until  recently  he  lived  in  Wil- 
mette,  111. 

John  Fanning  Hubbard,  '06 

John  Fanning  Jlubbard,  '06,  died  on 
March  18,  1969,  at  Niagara  Falls,  On- 
tario, Canada. 

He  was  born  in  Canaan,  Conn.,  and 
attended  Searls  High  School  in  Great 
Harrington,  Mass.  At  W.P.I,  he  majored 
in  electrical  engineering. 

42 


He  first  worked  for  Westinghouse  and 
later  for  Ontario  Power  Co.  In  1918 
he  became  a  consulting  engineer  for 
Willis  L.  Adams,  and  in  1924  he  started 
his  own  company.  In  1939  he  became 
an  expediter  for  the  Chemical  Construc- 
tion Co.,  and  in  1944  an  electrical  engi- 
neer for  The  Carborundum  Co.  In  1949 
he  joined  the  Niagara  Electrical  Con- 
tractors as  office  manager  and  engineer, 
retiring  in  1965. 

Mr.  Hubbard  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason 
and  a  Shriner. 

His  first  wife,  the  former  Edna  Louise 
Cole,  died  in  1944.  A  son,  USAF  Lt.  John 
Hubbard,  died  in  1955. 

Surviving  are  his  wife,  the  former 
Sarah  Muriel  Cole;  one  daughter,  Mrs. 
David  Bid  well;  and  three  grandsons. 

Clarence  M.  Stowe,  '12 

Clarence  M.  Stowe,  '12,  died  on  January 
28,  1969.    He  lived  in  Edwell,  N.Y. 

He  prepped  at  Cushing  Academy,  Ash- 
burnham,  Mass.,  prior  to  entering  W.P.I. 

For  many  years  he  was  employed  by 
the  Fred  T.  Ley  Co.,  and  later  by  the 
firm  of  Johnson,  Drake  &  Piper,  Inc.,  both 
of  New  York  City. 

Among  his  survivors  is  his  daughter, 
Mrs.  Marion  S.  Angelo. 

Marius  McKarl  Nielsen,  '25 

Marius  McKarl  Nielsen,  '25,  died  on 
April    7,    1969,    at    his    winter    home    on 


Casey   Key,   Nokomis,   Fla.,   following  a 
stroke  suffered  last  September. 

Born  and  educated  in  Holyoke,  Mass., 
he  majored  in  electrical  enginneering  at 
Tech.  He  later  received  degrees  from 
Union  Theological  Seminary  and  Colum- 
bia University. 

He  worked  for  Westinghouse  for  a 
short  time  and  in  the  early  '30's  he  did 
missionary  work  in  the  Far  East.  He 
became  associated  with  the  Unitarian 
Church  in  1935  and  served  as  minister 
to  various  congregations.  For  the  last 
18  summers  he  was  minister  of  the  Stevens 
Memorial  Chapel  in  Vineyard  Haven, 
Mass.  During  the  winter  he  lived  in 
Sarasota,  Fla.,  where  he  founded  a  church 
in  1955.  He  was  named  minister  emeritus 
in  1964,  when  he  retired. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Lucienne  Glorieux  Twitchell. 

George  Warren  Keller,  '51 

George  Warren  Keller,  '51,  died  on 
December  14,  1968,  at  St.  Peter's  Hos- 
pital, New  Brunswick,  N.J. 

A  native  of  Titusville,  N.Y.,  he  later 
moved  to  Trenton,  N.J.,  where  he  at- 
tended high  school. 

At  W.P.I,  he  majored  in  civil  engi- 
neering and  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha. 

Upon  graduation,  he  took  a  job  with 
Theodore  Loranger  &  Sons,  New  Bedford, 
Mass.  In  1954  he  became  a  project  engi- 
neer in  highway  design  for  the  firm  of 
Howard,  Needles,  Tammen  &  Bergen- 
doff,  New  York  City. 

He  married  the  former  Eunice  J.  Brad- 
ley in  1951.  They  had  two  daughters 
and  one  son. 


MORGAN 

Continuous    Rolling    Mills 

for  Billets,  Merchant  Bars,  Small 

Shapes,  Skelp,  Hoops  and  Strips, 

Cotton  Ties,  Wire  Rods 

Producer  Gas  Machines     Wire  Mill  Equipment 

Combustion  Controls  for  Open  Hearth  Furnaces 

and  Soaking  Pits 

MORGAN    CONSTRUCTION    CO. 

WORCESTER,  MASS. 


I    III      Jill    UN  \l. 


Your  Class  and  Others 


1907 

William  R.  Wood  has  let  us  know  that 
he  and  his  wife  have  moved  from  Braden- 
ton,  Fla.,  to  their  son's  home  in  Atlanta, 
Ga.,  at  22  Woodcrest  Ave.,  N.E.  Mr. 
Wood  retired  in  1950  from  the  Sao  Paulo 
Tramway  L.  &  P.  Co.  in  Brazil. 

1910 

In  May,  Ernest  W.  Bishop  and  his 
wife  went  to  live  with  their  daughter, 
Mrs.  James  M.  Finch,  Jr.,  in  Hamden, 
Conn.,  after  40  years  in  Larchmont,  N.Y. 
Mr.  Bishop  retired  from  the  Western 
Electric  Co.  in  1952. 

1913 

Alton  H.  Kingman  sends  the  following 
ijnews  from  Winter  Park,  Fla.:  "Mrs. 
Kingman  and  I  recently  moved  to  the 
Winter  Park  Towers  and  very  much  en- 
joy our  new  home  and  newly  found  friends 
at  1111  S.  Lakemont  Ave.  We  feel  most 
fortunate  to  be  so  near  our  former  home 
and  can  still  retain  our  many  Winter  Park 
friends  that  we  have  made  during  the 
past  ten  years  while  at  1848  Mizell  Ave. 
Except  for  being  a  'little'  older,  we  are 
both  well  and  still  enjoy  our  church  and 
club  connections.  Steven  Cutler  Howe, 
who  arrived  in  this  world  last  December, 
makes  us  great-grandparents.  Kindest 
regards  to  all." 

1915 

A  note  from  William  J.  Becker  tells  us 
that  he  has  moved  from  Stuart,  Fla., 
to  Kansas  City,  Mo.  He  writes,  "Wife 
and  I  decided  we  should  move  closer  to 
our  children.  Our  daughter  and  her  hus- 
band with  their  four  children  live  in 
Kansas  City,  and  our  son,  William  J.,  Ill, 
with  his  wife  and  two  children  live  in 
Ohio.  Our  daughter's  husband  is  city 
manager  of  Kansas  City,  and  our  son  is 
a  research  chemist." 

1917 

Andrew  B.  Holmsirom,  retired  vice 
president  of  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester, 
has  been  elected  to  his  14th  term  as 
president  of  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Chapter  of  the  National  Safety  Council. 

1921 

Alexander  L.  Wilson,  who  is  with  the 
Mississippi  Valley  Structural  Steel  Co. 
in  Melrose  Park,  111.,  tells  us  that  "Alex- 

The  Journal 


ander  C.  Wilson,  great-grandson  of 
J.  Fred  Wilson,  class  of  1877,  was  born 
March  18,  1969."  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  Lincoln  Thompson  has  retired  from 
Raymond  Engineering  Inc.,  where  he  was 
chairman  of  the  board  and  chief  executive 
officer.  He  is  acting  as  consultant  to  the 
company,  located  in  Middletown,  Conn. 
Line,  who  lives  in  Cheshire,  Conn.,  is 
a  trustee  of  W.P.I. 

1924 

We  have  received  the  following  note 
from  Milton  A.  Bemis:  "Retired  from 
Pennsylvania  Dept.  of  Highways  in  late 
1967  and  moved  to  Attleboro,  Mass.,  to 
be  near  daughter  and  granddaughters. 
Now  working  part-time  for  consulting 
engineers  in  Boston  as  traffic  engineer, 
designing  surveillance  and  control  system 
for  all  express  highways,  existing  and 
proposed,  inside  Route  128,  except  Mass. 
'Pike." 

1925 

Kenzo  Matsuo  has  retired  as  an  indus- 
trial engineer  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Japan. 
His  home  is  in  Tokyo. 

1926 

Married:  Clyde  W.  Hubbard  to  the 
former  Virginia  Haley,  on  June  1,  1968. 
Clyde  is  with  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
neering Corp.  in  Boston,  Mass.  His 
home  is  in  Nahant. 

Joseph  P.  Flemming  is  a  self-employed 
educational  consultant  in  Hampton  Bays, 
N.Y.  .  .  The  executive  director  of  the 
Ludlow  (Vt.)  Area  Chamber  of  Commerce 
is  Kenneth  R.  Archibald.  He  and  his 
family  live  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  Howard 
B.  Smith,  for  the  past  22  years  president 
of  the  Middletown  (Conn.)  Savings  Bank, 
and  the  recipient  of  the  1968  "Outstand- 
ing Citizen  Award"  in  Middletown,  has 
moved  to  a  retirement  home  in  Orleans, 
Mass.  He  reports  that  his  principal 
occupation  hereafter  will  be  beach- 
combing. 

1928 

We  have  learned  that  Arthur  M.  Tarbox 
has  retired  as  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Boston  &  Lockport  Block  Co., 
E.  Boston,  Mass. 

1932 

John  R.  Tinker,  retired  swimming 
coach   at   Gardner   (Mass.)    High   School, 


recently  was  honored  at  two  swim  meets. 
He  served  as  an  honorary  referee  at  the 
23rd  Annual  Mass.  Interscholastic  Swim- 
ming and  Diving  Championship  at  the 
University  of  Mass.  The  event  was  also 
dedicated  to  him.  At  the  New  England 
Championships  at  the  University  of 
New  Hampshire,  his  fellow  coaches  of  the 
New  England  Interscholastic  Swimming 
Association  honored  him  with  an  engraved 
pewter  plate  for  his  outstanding  service  to 
New  England  interscholastic  swimming. 
He  was  called  "one  of  the  most  devoted 
and  dedicated  coaches  within  the  Com- 
monwealth of  Massachusetts." 

1934 

J.  Leonard  Burnett  is  now  manager 
of  composition  services  at  Vail-Ballou 
Press,  Inc.,  in  Binghamton,  N.Y.,  where 
he  and  his  family  also  make  their  home.  .  . 
We  received  the  following  note  from 
James  V.  Rowley:  "Retired  in  1968  as 
chief,  Quality  Assurance  Div.,  Spring- 
field (Mass.)  Armory,  which  was  phased 
out  in  April,  1968.  Since  retiring,  my 
wife  and  I  spent  two  months  in  Europe 
and  several  weeks  in  Florida  this  past 
winter.  I'm  also  enjoying  our  ten  grand- 
children." .  .  The  superintendent  director 
of  the  Blackstone  Valley  Vocational  Re- 
gional School  District  in  Massachusetts 
is  Paul  J.  Sullivan.  Paul  was  formerly 
with  the  Mass.  Dept.  of  Education  where 
he  was  senior  supervisor  in  charge  of  all 
area  redevelopment  act  training  programs 
and  manpower  development  and  training 
act  programs.  .  .  Continuing  with  the 
Worcester  Foundation  for  Experimental 
Biology  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass.,  Dr.  Elijah 
B.  Romanoff  is  senior  scientist  with  special 
interest  in  regulatory  mechanisms,  par- 
ticularly in  reproductive  physiology. 

1935 

A  note  from  Raymond  L.  Moeller  tells 
us  that  he  "retired  March  1  after  34  years' 
service  with  General  Electric.  Began 
with  G.E.  at  graduation  and  had  always 
planned  to  retire  at  a  very  early  age. 
Essentially  all  of  my  working  career  was 
spent  at  the  W.  Lynn  (Mass.)  plant  and 
my  last  position  was  manager — professional 
employee  relations."  Ray  has  moved  to 
Cromwell,  Conn. 

1936 

Capt.  Daniel  J.  Harrington,  111  has 
retired  from  the  U.S.  Navy  and  is  living 
in  San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  Loring  Coes,  Jr., 
consultant  for  the  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Dept.,  Grinding  Wheel  Div.,  of 
Norton  Co.  in  Worcester,  has  been  granted 
his  38th  patent  by  the  U.S.  Patent  Office. 
His  latest  invention  is  an  apparatus  for 
intermittently    changing    the    eccentricity 

43 


of  grinding  wheels  during  the  grinding 
process.  It  will  reduce  the  cost  and  im- 
prove the  efficiency  of  grinding  wheel 
processes. 

1937 

B.  Allen  Benjamin  is  now  professor  of 
civil  engineering  at  W.P.I.  He  has  been 
at  Tech  for  six  years.  .  .  We  received 
the  following  note  from  Martin  G.  Caine: 
"I  joined  Tenneco  Chemicals,  Inc.,  about 
two  years  ago  as  V.P. — Administration 
of  Tenneco  Plastics  Div.  On  July  1, 
1968, 1  was  made  President  of  the  Tenneco 
Plastics  Div.,  Tenneco  Chemicals,  Inc., 
with  my  office  in  Piscataway,  N.J." 
Martin  and  his  family  live  in  Livingston. 
.  .  "Here  is  a  belated  bit  of  news  about 
myself,"  writes  Laurence  F.  Granger. 
"On  December  2,  1968,  I  joined  the  Amer- 
ican Iron  and  Steel  Institute  as  Staff 
Representative  for  the  Committee  of  Tool 
Steel  Producers  and  the  Committee  of 
Seamless  Specialty  Tubing  Producers." 
The  Institute  is  located  in  New  York  City, 
and    Mr.    Granger   resides   in    Hartsdale. 

1938 

Donald  W.  Howe,  Jr.  has  been  named 
professor  of  physics  at  Worcester  Tech. 
Don  joined  the  W.P.I,  faculty  in  1941.  .  . 
The  owner  of  Swenson's  Men's  Shop  in 
Walpole,  Mass.,  Francis  B.  Swenson  was 
recently  elected  to  the  board  of  directors 
of  the  Walpole  Cooperative  Bank.  .  . 
A.  George  Mallis  is  a  partner  in  the  firm 
of  Mallis,  Patterson  &  Burgener,  Archi- 
tects-Engineers, located  in  Springfield, 
Mass.     His  home  is  in  Wilbraham. 

1939 

Continuing  with  Stanley  Tools  Div. 
of  The  Stanley  Works,  Robert  F.  West 
was  recently  appointed  manager  of  new 
product  research  in  the  New  Britain 
(Conn.)  facility.  Bob  and  his  wife, 
Dorothy,  and  their  two  children,  Karen 
and  Lee,  reside  in  W.  Simsbury.  .  .  The 
Spencer  Turbine  Co.  of  Hartford,  Conn., 
has  announced  the  appointment  of  David 
H.  Hunt  as  vice  president.  Dave  has 
also  been  elected  to  the  board  of  directors 
of  the  company,  a  manufacturer  of  turbo 
compressors  and  vacuum  systems.  He 
joined  Spencer  in  1954  as  an  engineer 
and  now  holds  four  patents  on  mechanical 
devices  related  to  Spencer  industrial 
vacuum  cleaning  equipment. 

1940 

Raymond  ./.  Forkey  has  been  elected 
to  the  board  of  directors  at  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.  in  Worcester.  Ray  is  president 
of  Coppus  Engineering  Corp.  and  is  a 
trustee  of  W.P.I.  .  .  The  owner  and  man- 


ager of  Hafey  Air  Conditioning  Co.  is 
Edward  E.  J.  Hafey.  The  company  has 
offices  in  Concord  and  San  Pablo.  .  . 
Vernon  J.  Liberty  has  joined  Magnat 
Corp.,  Easthampton,  Mass.,  as  a  sales 
engineer  in  the  Industrial  Roll  Div.  His 
territory  includes  all  of  New  England 
and  New  York  State,  except  New  York 
City  and  Long  Island.  .  .  Continuing  with 
United  Shoe  Machinery  Corp.,  W.  Clark 
Goodchild,  Jr.  is  the  senior  engineer, 
Special  Projects  Dept.,  Central  Research 
Div.,  located  in  Beverly,  Mass.  Clark  is 
secretary-treasurer  of  the  North  Shore 
Alumni  Chapter. 

1941 

Merrill  W.  Wright,  president  of  G.  F. 
Wright  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  Worcester, 
was  appointed  by  the  Treasury  Dept.  to 
serve  as  chairman  of  the  "Share  in  Amer- 
ica '69"  campaign  in  behalf  of  the  U.S. 
Savings  Bonds  Program  for  the  Worcester 
area.  .  .  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  of  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  has  announced  the  promotion 
of  J.  Philip  Berggren  to  assistant  secretary 
in  the  engineering  department,  casualty 
and  surety  division.  His  previous  posi- 
tion was  superintendent  of  technical  serv- 
ices. .  .  We  have  learned  that  Donald  T. 
Atkinson  is  manager — aerospace  market 
development  in  General  Electric's  De- 
fense Programs  Div.  in  Washington,  D.C. 
Don's  previous  title  was  manager — elec- 
tronic systems  field  operation.  He  resides 
in  Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr., 
president  of  Earle  Gear  and  Machine  Co. 
and  Donegal  Steel  Foundry  Co.  of  Phila- 
delphia, announced  recently  that  he  and 
the  president  of  the  Tower  Industrial 
Corp.  had  purchased  all  the  outstanding 
stock  of  the  Wicaco  Machine  Corp.  of 
Philadelphia.  Don  will  be  president  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  the  company.  .  . 
The  manager  of  industrial  engineering 
at  Raytheon  Co.'s  Equipment  Div.  in 
N.  Dighton,  Mass.,  is  John  P.  Schultheiss. 
John  and  his  family  live  in  Attleboro. 

1942 

Howard  C.  Warren  has  been  named  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.,  of  Worcester.  Howard  is  presi- 
dent and  founder  of  Scam  Instrument 
Corp.  of  Skokie,  111. 

1943 

Norton  Co.  of  Worcester  has  announced 
that  Arthur  H.  Medine,  Jr.  has  been 
appointed  superintendent  of  engineering, 
large  vitrified  products,  in  the  Grinding 
Wheel  Div.     Art  lives  in  Holden. 

1944 

Charles  E.  Cannon  is  vice  president 
of  Coffin    &   Richardson,   Inc.,   consulting 


engineers,  in  Boston,  Mass.  He  and  his 
family  (his  wife,  Mary,  and  their  three 
children,  Susan,  Mark,  and  Mathew) 
live  in  Sherborn.  .  .  The  sales  manager 
in  the  Explosives  and  Mining  Chemicals 
Dept.  of  American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Wayne, 
N.J.,  is  Leslie  M.  Davis.  Les  and  his  wife, 
Dona,  have  five  children:  Anne,  16;  Evan, 
14;  Matt  and  Tom,  12;  and  Stephanie,  2. 
Their  home  is  in  Mountain  Lakes.  .  . 
Rex  Chainbelt,  Inc.,  Milwaukee,  Wise, 
recently  announced  the  appointment  of 
Alfred  F.  Larkin,  Jr.  as  president  of  its 
Conveyor  and  Power  Transmission  Divi- 
sions. The  divisions  are  a  combination 
of  the  firm's  Chain  and  Transmission  and 
Conveyor  Divisions  to  provide  for  more 
efficient  manufacturing  and  marketing  of 
Rex  products.  .  .  "Three  Tech  men  have 
been  working  for  3 14  years  at  Communica- 
tions Satellite  Corp.,  Earth  Station  Imple- 
mentation Div.  (Washington,  D.C.)," 
writes  L.  Howard  Reagan.  "The  division 
has  42  people,  so  the  ratio  of  W.P.I, 
alumni  is  relatively  high.  The  men  are 
William  D.  Young,  '50;  Richard  J.  Mc- 
Bride,  '56;  and  myself.  Of  the  above 
42,  32  have  engineering  degrees,  which 
proves:  if  you  blow  in  a  Tech  man's  ear, 
smoke  will  come  out  the  other  side!"  .  . 
Donald  E.  Buser  is  now  with  Allied 
Chemical  Corp.  in  Morristown,  N.J. 
He  and  his  family  live  in  Glen  Rock.  .  . 
We  received  a  note  from  Benjamin  B. 
D'Ewart,  Jr.  which  states  that  he  is  a 
"Consultant  in  structural  dynamics  to 
Bell  Aerosystems  Co.,  for  a  surface  effects 
ship  to  be  built  in  the  New  Orleans  area  for 
the  Navy  and  Maritime  Commission."  .  . 
Premier  Thread  Co.  employs  Warner  H. 
Tabor  as  a  plant  engineer  in  Bristol,  R.I., 
where  he  also  makes  his  home. 


1945 

The  new  director  of  facilities  at  Glass- 
boro  (N.J.)  State  College  is  Robert  E. 
Duffy.  Bob  and  his  wife,  Mary  Jane, 
and  their  two  children,  Kathleen  and 
Kevin,  live  in  Cherry  Hill.  .  .  Avco  Missile 
Systems  Div.  in  Wilmington,  Mass.,  has 
appointed  John  A.  Templelon  director 
of  program  development.  John  will  be 
responsible  for  the  Division's  program 
development  and  marketing  activities 
across  a  wide  range  of  business  areas  in- 
cluding operational  re-entry  systems,  en- 
vironmental technology,  optical  and  ma- 
rine systems  and  industrial  services.  John, 
his  wife  Marjorie,  and  their  four  children 
live  in  Wcllesley. 


1946C 

Philip  G.  Duffy  has  been  named  to 
fill  the  new  position  of  marketing  man- 
ager at  Fairbanks  Morse  Weighing  Sys- 
tems Div.  of  Colt  Industries  in  St.  Johns- 


44 


The  Journal 


bury,  Vt.  Phil  will  have  responsibility 
for  all  St.  Johnsbury  and  E.  Moline  prod- 
uct marketing,  advertising,  national  ac- 
counts, and  government  and  export  sales. 
He  and  his  family  will  be  moving  from 
Trenton,  N.J.,  to  St.  Johnsbury  shortly. 

1947 

Paul  D.  O'Donnell,  corporate  director 
of  manufacturing  controls  at  Westing- 
house  Electric  Corp.  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa., 
was  recently  elected  president  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Industrial  Engi- 
neers, the  world's  largest  professional 
society  for  practicing  industrial  engineers 
.  .  The  vice  president  of  business  planning 
and  development  at  Potter  Instrument 
!  Co.,  Inc.  in  Plainvicw,  N.Y.,  is  Donald  B. 
Tkompson.    Don'3  home  is  in  Huntington. 

1948 

Dr.  Donald  C.  Eieson  of  W.P.I.'s  Elec- 
trical Engineering  Dept.  was  recently 
promoted  to  associate  professor.  Don 
joined  the  faculty  in  1962  as  an  instruc- 
tor. .  .  Carl  P.  Hershfield  is  now  with 
Raytheon  Co.  in  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  Con- 
tinuing with  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.,  Arne 
A.  Kellstrom  is  now  marketing  manager 
in  the  Air  Power  Div.,  Corning,  N.Y. 
He  and  his  family  live  in  Elmira.  .  . 
We  received  a  note  from  Charles  L. 
Loveridge,  Jr.:  "I  am  still  with  Camp, 
Dresser  &  McKee  as  resident  engineer  on 
a  water  treatment  plant  for  the  City  of 
Brockton,  Mass."  .  .  Kerr  Glass  Manu- 
facturing Corp.  has  announced  that  Rick- 
ard  TV.  Morse  is  Director  of  Employee 
Relations  in  the  new  Packaging  Products 
Div.  in  Lancaster,  Pa.  .  .  Bruce  E.  Nagler 
continues  with  Metcalf  &  Eddy  in  Boston, 
Mass.  His  home  is  in  Needham.  .  .  A 
note  from  Edward  J.  Powers  lets  us  know 
that  he  is  now  employed  by  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  E.  Hartford,  Conn. 

1949 

We  have  learned  that  Fred  J.  Brennan, 
Jr.  is  with  Singer  Co.'s  Kearfott  Group 
in  Wayne,  N.J.  He  and  his  family  live 
in  Ridgewood.  .  .  Paavo  Junno  writes 
that  he  was  promoted  in  September  of 
'68  to  works  manager  at  Chicago  Pneu- 
matic Tool  Co.,  Franklin,  Pa.  This  is  a 
foundry  and  plant  producing  compressors, 
diesel  engines,  and  mining  and  construc- 
tion equipment.  .  .  The  new  manager  of 
gas  supply  and  industrial  development 
for  the  Worcester  Gas  Light  Co.  is  Harold 
A.  Melden,  Jr.  Harry  joined  the  com- 
pany in  1950  and  most  recently  was 
director  of  commercial  and  industrial 
development.  .  .  Another  promotion  for 
a  '49'er  was  recently  announced  by  Norton 
I  Co.  in  Worcester.  Guy  D.  Metcalf  is 
now  chief  development  engineer,  Machine 

The  Journal 


Tool  Div.  He  is  in  charge  of  the  research 
and  design  department.  Guy's  most  re- 
cent title  was  product  quality  engineer.  .  . 
Karl  R.  Berggren,  Jr.  sends  us  some  family 
news:  "My  oldest  daughter,  Sylvia,  is 
a  freshman  at  Boston  University's  School 
of  Occupational  Therapy."  Karl  is  Man- 
ager of  Engineering  Services  at  Buffalo 
Pumps  Div.  of  Buffalo  Forge  Co.,  Buffalo, 
N.Y. 

1950 

Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr.  is  now  with  Polaroid 
Corp.  as  Dept.  Manager,  Facilities  Engi- 
neering, at  the  Cambridge  (Mass.)  branch. 
.  .  DuPont  in  Wilmington,  Del.,  employs 
Arthtir  TV.  Joyce,  Jr.  as  development  man- 
ager and  venture  manager  in  the  Electro- 
chemicals  Dept.  .  .  Royal  Typewriter  Co., 
Paramus,  N.J.,  a  div.  of  Litton  Industries, 
has  a  new  president  in  the  person  of 
Robert  F.  Stewart.  Bob  joined  the  com- 
pany five  years  ago  and  has  held  key 
positions  at  Litton,  most  recently  as 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
Royfax  Div.  He  and  his  family  live  in 
Convent  Station,  N.J.  .  .  We  have  re- 
ceived a  note  from  Robert  D.  Murdoch, 
bringing  us  up  to  date  on  his  career. 
"With  UNIVAC,  Twin  Cities  (Minn.) 
since  Jan.,  1964.  Recently  promoted  to 
manager,  language  processor  research  and 
development."     Bob  and  his  family  live 


in  Minneapolis.  .  .  "I  am  located  in  Tia- 
juana,  Venezuela,  with  Creole  Petroleum 
Corp.,  a  subsidiary  of  Standard  Oil  of 
New  Jersey,"  writes  John  C.  Margo,  Jr. 
"I  am  presently  supervisor  of  the  Plan- 
ning and  Programming  for  the  Main- 
tenance and  Construction  organization. 
We  have  850  men  engaged  in  these  activi- 
ties, which  include  2J^  million  feet  of 
pipe  laying  in  the  lake,  pile  driving,  four 
gas  turbine  injection  plants,  120  flow 
stations,  2,500  wells,  etc." 

1951 

Norton  Co.  in  Worcester  has  announced 
the  appointment  of  Stanley  R.  Lindberg 
as  superintendent  of  engineering,  organic 
products,  in  the  Grinding  Wheel  Div. 
Stan  joined  Norton  in  1956  and  most 
recently  was  a  supervisor  of  manufactur- 
ing control,  organic  products.  .  .  Neil  E. 
Sullivan  is  self-employed  as  a  writer  of 
programmed  learning  materials  in  Venice, 
Calif.,  and  is  working  toward  his  Ph.D. 
in  Educational  Psychology  at  U.C.L.A. 
(he  holds  an  M.A.  in  Psychology  from 
Hollins  College).  .  .  Having  completed 
courses  and  successfully  passed  the  real 
estate  broker's  examination  required  by 
the  state  of  Massachusetts,  John  M. 
Tomasz  and  his  wife,  Eleanor,  have 
formed  their  own  real  estate  business, 
Highland   Realty,  located  in  their  home 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  .  . 

Perhaps  you  can't  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 

COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 

Price:  $31.00 

• 

No.  342  214 

COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21 "  • 

Price:  $44.00     (Black  Anns) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $45.00     (Cherry  Arms) 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON  ROCKER 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  27  }4" 
Price:  $40.00 


Send  vour  remittance  and  make  checks  payable  to 

W.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

All  chairs  shipped  express  prepaid. 


45 


in  Amesbury,  Mass.  Eleanor  is  also  a 
licensed  broker  in  the  state  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. .  .  A  note  from  Charles  F.  Mulrenan 
states:  "I  was  promoted  to  chief  engineer 
of  the  Chicago  South  Shore  &  South  Bend 
Railroad  on  March  1.  The  South  Shore 
is  an  electric  railroad  which  transports 
approximately  11,000  commuters  each 
day  into  Chicago.  We  also  operate 
freight  trains  with  electric  engines.  We 
have  two  daughters — Jean,  13,  and  Kath- 
leen, 2."  Charlie  and  his  family  live  in 
Michigan  City,  Ind.  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  Vartlces  Sohigian  is  an  associate 
with  University  Affiliates,  Inc.,  Brighton, 
Mass.    Varkey's  home  is  in  Andover. 

1952 

Elliott  W.  Lewis  sends  the  following 
information:  "I  have  been  elected  presi- 
dent of  Adams-Sullivan,  Inc.  I  will  be 
general  manager  of  this  major  construc- 
tion machinery  distributor,  which  main- 
tains plants  in  the  cities  of  Industry  and 
El  Cajon,  Calif.  Major  product  lines  are 
Joy  compressors,  drills  and  hoists,  Hein- 
Werner  hydraulic  backhoes  and.  roto- 
graders,  and  Buffalo-Springfield  rollers 
and  compactors."  Elliott  and  his  family 
live  in  San  Marino.  .  .  The  district  man- 
ager for  Ashland  Chemical  Co.,  a  Div.  of 
Ashland  Oil  &  Refining,  in  Englewood 
Cliffs,  N.J.,  is  Philip  J.  O'Connor.  His 
home  is  in  Wyckoff.  .  .  Morristown,  N.J., 
is  the  location  of  Daniel  G.  Stoughton, 
who  is  a  project  engineer  for  Allied  Chem- 
ical Corp.  He  and  his  wife  and  their 
two  sons  live  in  Madison.  .  .  The  Director 
of  the  Board  of  Public  Works  in  Wake- 
field, Mass.,  is  Richard  C.  Boutiette. 

1953 

We  have  learned  that  G.  Brady  Buckley 
is  now  manager  of  marketing,  Educa- 
tional Relations  and  Recruiting  Opera- 
tion, Corporate  Management  Manpower 
Development,  at  General  Electric  Co.  in 
New  York  City.  Brady  joined  G.E. 
after  graduation.  He  lives  in  Morristown, 
N.J.,  with  his  wife  and  their  three  chil- 
dren. .  .  The  supervisor  of  professional 
and  technical  recruitment  at  Pratt  and 
Whitney  Aircraft,  E.  Hartford,  Conn., 
is  William  M.  Walsh.  Bill  was  named 
chairman  of  the  steering  committee  for 
the  Greater  Hartford  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce 1969  Career  Conference.  .  .  James 
C.  Hodder  is  now  with  ABT  Associates  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.  He  lives  in  Belmont. 
.  .  We  have  learned  that  John  0.  Morin 
has  joined  Sigma  Instruments,  Inc.  in 
Braintree,  Mass. 

1954 

A  letter  from  Wesley  P.  Wheeler  states: 
"Just   a   note   to   inform    you    that    I    am 


now  the  Port  Engineer  for  American 
Trading  and  Production  Corp.  Marine 
Div.  (in  New  York  City).  Our  fleet  con- 
sists of  six  U.S.  flag  tankers,  and  my 
duties  will  include  the  husbanding  of 
these  ships.  Since  receiving  my  master's 
degree  from  the  University  of  Michigan 
in  Naval  Architecture  and  Marine  Engi- 
neering, I  spent  a  good  deal  of  time 
traveling  throughout  the  U.S.  and  Europe 
on  vessel  construction,  repair  and  design 
and  thoroughly  enjoyed  my  work.  I 
might  note  that  Raymond  M.  H.  Naudin 
is  a  neighbor  of  mine  and  he,  Joachim 
Herz,  and  I  get  together  quite  frequently." 
.  .  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester  has  an- 
nounced the  recent  appointment  of 
Emmanuel  Milias  as  supervisor,  process 
systems  research,  for  the  research  and 
development  department,  Grinding  Wheel 
Div.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the  de- 
velopment of  major  new  systems  for  the 
manufacture  of  grinding  wheels.  .  .  Hugh 
K.  Tufts,  Jr.  has  joined  the  Carlson- 
Daniel  Insurance  Agency,  Inc.  in  West- 
boro,  Mass.,  specializing  in  the  field  of 
financial  planning.  Hugh  and  his  wife, 
Joan,  and  their  three  children  live  in 
Ashland. 

1955 

The  new  vice  president  and  plant 
manager  at  PresMet  Corp.,  Worcester, 
is  Reynold  J.  Sansoucy.  Reynald  joined 
PresMet  in  1955  and  most  recently  was 
manufacturing  manager.  .  .  Gerald  L.  Sut- 
ton writes  that  he  is  now  program  ad- 
ministrator in  IBM's  Data  Processing 
Div.,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.  .  .  The  chief 
of  the  environmental  planning  branch, 
airports  service,  of  the  Federal  Aviation 
Administration  in  Washington  is  John  R. 
Goodwin.  John's  home  is  in  Arlington, 
Va.  .  .  We  received  a  note  from  Lt.  Col. 
Dean  M.  Carlson,  who  is  now  stationed  in 
Germany  with  an  APO  New  York  address. 
Dean  writes,  in  part,  "Elke,  my  wife, 
is  happy  to  be  in  Germany  and  near  her 
folks  who  are  in  Karlsruhe — not  too  far 
from  Frankfurt.  Our  son  (Dean  Mills, 
two  years  old),  who  was  born  while  I  was 
in  Vietnam,  is  a  husky  youngster  who 
gives  his  sister  (Kirstin  Barbara,  age  four) 
considerable  competition.  I  expect  to 
stay  here  about  another  year." 

1956 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Christopher  R. 
Collins,  a  daughter,  Lynn,  on  July  7,  19G8. 
They  now  have  three  girls  and  one  boy. 
Chris  writes,  "Also  built  and  moved  into 
a  new  home  on  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
(Arnold,  Md.)  this  past  year.  Still  with 
Westinghousc  Underseas  Div.  (Balti- 
more)." 


Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr.  has  brought  us 
up  to  date  with  the  following  note:  "Now 
listed  in  Who's  Who  in  the  East  for  1968-69, 
and  elected  vice  president — engineering 
mechanics  for  Electronics,  Inc.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  in  February.  We  manu- 
facture ECG  Recorders  for  the  bio- 
medical industry.  Our  equipment  was 
used  on  General  Eisenhower  at  Walter 
Reed  Hospital."  .  .  At  a  dinner  in  his 
honor  on  April  12,  presided  over  by 
master  of  ceremonies  Irving  James  Dona- 
hue, Jr.,  '44,  Edwin  B.  Cogklin,  Jr.  re- 
ceived the  1969  Shrewsbury  (Mass.) 
Jaycee  Distinguished  Service  Award. 
The  award  recognizes  Ted's  meritorious 
service  to  his  family,  church,  and  com- 
munity. Ted,  active  in  many  groups  in 
the  Worcester  area,  is  vice  president  and 
manager  of  the  Engineering  and  Con- 
tracting Dept.  of  Coghlin's,  Inc.  of 
Worcester,  president  of  Shepherd  Engi- 
neering, Inc.,  and  a  vice  president  of 
Coghlin  Electric  Co.,  both  of  Worcester. 
Ted  was  also  recently  elected  a  director 
of  the  Mechanics  National  Bank.  .  .  A 
news  item  has  been  received  from  Roger  H. 
Tancrell:  "I  received  Ph.D.  degree  in 
Applied  Physics  from  Harvard  University 
in  March,  '69.  Am  currently  employed 
at  Raytheon  Research  Div.  in  Waltham, 
Mass.,  working  on  microwave  ultrasonic 
devices. 

1957 

George  W-.  Matarrese  has  sent  the  fol- 
lowing note:  "I  am  the  chief  plant  engi- 
neer at  Foote  &  Davies,  Inc.,  a  division 
of  McCall's  Printing  Co.,  in  Atlanta,  Ga. 
We  have  just  adopted  a  beautiful  daugh- 
ter, Stacey  Elizabeth.  She  was  hYi  weeks 
old  when  we  brought  her  home.  She 
quickly  had  her  Dad  wrapped  around  her 
finger."  George  and  his  family  live  in 
Dunwoody.  .  .  "I  am  still  with  the  United 
Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
Recently  appointed  engineering  manager. 
We  (wife,  Jane — Becker  Class  of  1956 — 
and  children  David,  11,  and  Sherry.  9) 
live  in  N.  Branford,  Conn.,"  writes  Leon 
A.  Morgan.  .  .  Tallahassee,  Fla.,  is  the 
location  of  George  A.  Rodes,  who  is  an 
area  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Dept.  of  Trans- 
portation, Federal  Highway  Administra- 
tion, Bureau  of  Public  Roads.  .  .  The 
Superior  Electric  Co.  of  Bristol,  Conn., 
announced  the  appointment  of  Charles  I. 
Whitney  as  product  engineer  ill  charge 
of  the  positioning  systems  engineering 
group.  Charlie  joined  Superior  Eleetric's 
engineering  dept.  in  1905.  He  and  his 
wife  and  their  three  children  live  in 
Canton.  .  .  Dr.  Robert  A.  Beaudet  con- 
tinues at  the  University  of  Southern 
California  in  Los  Angeles  in  the  Chemistry 

Dept.      He  is  an  associate  professor  on  an 


46 


I  iik  Journal 


Alfred    P.     Sloan    Research    Fellowship. 
I  He    has    been    studying    intermolecular 
!  forces     within     small     molecules.       The 
:  knowledge   of   these   forces    is    significant 
in  determining  the  shapes  and  conforma- 
tion    of     molecules.       Ideally,     complete 
i  knowledge  of  these  intermolecular  forces 
would     allow     the     complete     theoretical 
i  prediction     of     the     structures     of     large 
j  molecules    such    as    DNA    and    proteins. 
.  Bob  is  also  studying  the  molecular  struc- 
i  ture  and  other  properties  of  small  gaseous 
free  radicals  such  as  OH.     The  properties 
I  of  these  free  radicals  are  extremely  impor- 
tant  in   understanding   radio   astronomy, 
|  pulsar,     space     chemistry,     and     gaseous 
I  chemical  reactions.  .  .  Norman  C.  Ristaino 
I  was    recently    cited    by    the    U.S.    Army 
|  Natiek   (Mass.)   Laboratories  as   "Handi- 
capped Employee  of  the  Year"  in  recog- 
i  nition    of    his    outstanding    performance 
I  as     a    standardization     program    analyst 
I  in  the   Quality   Assurance   Office   and   of 
his    long    record    of    community    service. 
i  While    a    high    school    freshman,     Norm 
1  was    afflicted    with    polio    which    affected 
|  both  his  legs.     Despite  his  handicap,   he 
completed   his   education   and   joined   the 
Xatick  Labs  in  1957.     Norm,   a  resident 
of   Franklin,    Mass.,   has   served  on   their 
Planning  Board,  Board  of  Public  Works, 
I  School  Survey  Needs  Committee,  and  the 
High  School  Building  Committee.     He  is 
also    president    of    the    Franklin    Softball 
I  League  and  past  Chairman  of  the  Frank- 
j  lin   March   of   Dimes.      He  received   the 
Distinguished      Citizen      Award     of     the 
I  Franklin  Jaycees  in  1967. 

1958 

Richard  A.  Lisbon  is  now  with  the 
International  Div.  of  Bristol  Myers  Corp. 
in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  Dr.  David  W.  Abbott  is  associate  pro- 
fessor of  psychology  at  Florida  Tech. 
University  in  Orlando.  .  .  The  appoint- 
ment of  Stanley  0.  Anderson,  SIM,  as 
manager  of  production  engineering  was 
recently  announced  by  the  Worcester 
Div.  of  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp.  His 
home  is  in  W.  Millbury.  .  .  The  Worcester 
Gas  Light  Co.  recently  announced  a  pro- 
motion for  Peter  C.  Dirksen,  Jr.  He  is 
now  director  of  industrial  development. 
Pete  has  been  with  Worcester  Gas  since 
graduation,  except  for  a  period  of  military 
service  with  the  Army.  He  and  his  wife, 
Beverly,  live  in  Westboro.  .  .  Robert  B. 
Sundheim  is  with  the  law  firm  of  Meyer, 
Tilberry  &  Body,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  He 
and  his  wife,  Mary  Lou,  and  their  two 
children,  Kirsten,  age  8,  and  Robert,  Jr., 
age  6,  live  in  Shaker  Heights. 

1959 

Married:  Joseph  E.  Swider,  Jr.  to 
Miss    Margaret    H.    Moriarty    of    Long- 

The  Journal 


meadow,  Mass.,  on  April  26,  1969.  Joe 
writes:  "I  am  presently  employed  by  the 
Space  Systems  Dept.  of  the  Hamilton 
Standard  Div.  of  United  Aircraft.  Until 
recently  I  was  system  manager  on  the 
Apollo  Portable  Life  Support  System 
(Backpack)  Program  for  Hamilton.  With 
the  completion  of  two  major  milestones 
in  that  program  (Qualification  and  suc- 
cessful first  flight — Apollo  9),  I  am  now 
serving  as  the  Hamilton  Standard  Resi- 
dent Representative  at  McDonnell  Doug- 
las Astronautics  Co.  in  Huntington  Beach, 
Calif.  My  primary  responsibilities  in 
this  position  are  to  provide  management 
and  technical  coordination  on  the  MOL 
(Manned  Orbiting  Laboratory)  Program 
and  various  other  space  programs  in 
which  Hamilton  and  McDonnell  Douglas 
are  associates." 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  V.  James 
Cinquina,  their  first  child  and  son,  David 
James,  on  August  13,  1968.  Jim  and  his 
family  live  in  Ringwood,  N.J. 

Rex  Chainbelt,  Inc.  has  announced 
the  appointment  of  Robert  A.  Berg  as 
marketing  manager  of  its  Hanna  Fluid 
Power  Div.  in  Chicago,  111.  Bob  joined 
Rex  Chainbelt  in  1963  and  most  recently 
was  eastern  district  manager  for  the 
Construction  Machinery  Group.  He 
and  his  family  live  in  Lake  Forest,  111.  .  . 
We  received  the  following  note  from 
Alexander  L.  Pratt:  "Received  MBA 
degree  from  the  University  of  Maine  in 
June,  1968.  Due  to  job  changes,  the 
degree  was  the  result  of  work  at  three 
graduate  schools:  Boston  University, 
Maine,  and  Babson  Institute.  Employed 
by  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  N.H.,  in 
Special  Requirements  Group  of  E.C.M. 
Div.  I  have  been  with  Sanders  since 
April,  1967.  We  have  a  son,  Chet,  age 
4J-^,  and  a  daughter,  Elizabeth,  age  2J^." 

1960 

Ronald  L.  Letteney  is  a  Ph.D.  candidate 
at  Johns  Hopkins  University  in  Balti- 
more, Md.  He  and  his  wife,  Verna,  are 
living  in  W.  Hyattsville.  .  .  M.I.T.'s  In- 
strumentation Lab.  in  Cambridge,  Mass., 
is  the  location  of  F.  Gary  Augeri,  a  staff 
engineer.  .  .  Roger  R.  LaFontaine  is  with 
Salvi  Ford  Sales  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
He  lives  in  Arlington.  .  .  Honeywell,  Inc., 
in  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.,  is  Paul  R. 
Jolicoeur's  employer.  Paul  and  his  wife, 
Diane,  live  in  Westboro.  .  .  Edward  E. 
Lindberg,  associate  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  and  a  member  of  the  Western 
New  England  College  faculty  since  1963, 
has  been  named  to  direct  the  college's 
computer  center.  Ed,  who  received  his 
MS  from  W.P.I,  in  1963,  is  presently 
enrolled  in  the  Ph.D.  program  at  the 
University    of   Connecticut. 


1961 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sheldon  W. 
Rothstein,  their  second  child,  a  daughter, 
Deborah,  on  May  9,  1968.  Sheldon  is  an 
attorney  with  Polaroid  Corp.  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

Seymour  Davidson  is  a  field  under- 
writer for  New  York  Life  Insurance  Co. 
with  offices  in  Stamford  and  Trumbull, 
Conn.  Sy's  home  is  in  Trumbull.  .  . 
Ralph  M.  Dykstra  is  a  pilot  for  TWA.  .  . 
In  December  of  '68  Troy  Yarn  &  Textile 
Co.  of  Pawtucket,  R.I.,  appointed  John  H. 
Herron  manufacturing  manager.  .  .  Allen 
L.  Johnson  informs  us  that  he  is  a  self- 
employed  electronics  engineer  in  Ithaca, 
N.Y.  .  .  The  president  of  Wolf  Institute 
Electronics  in  College  Station,  Tex.,  is 
William  A.  F.  Maertens.  Bill  says,  "We 
design,  fabricate,  repair  and  maintain 
laboratory  instruments  for  Texas  A&M 
University."  .  .  We  have  learned  that 
Thomas  L.  Moloney,  Jr.  is  now  a  regis- 
tered representative  with  the  firm  of 
White,  Weld  &  Co.,  members  of  the  New 
York  Stock  Exchange,  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
Tom  lives  in  Torrington.  .  .  John  W. 
Powers,  who  received  an  MS  in  Environ- 
mental Engineering  from  R.P.I,  in  '65, 
is  a  project  engineer  with  Tighe  &  Bond 
Consulting  Engineers,  Holyoke,  Mass.  .  . 
Public  Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co. 
(Newark,  N.J.)  has  announced  the  re- 
cent promotion  of  Joseph  N.  Wrubel  to 
senior  engineer  in  the  Electric  System 
Planning  and  Development  Dept. 


TEACHING  OPPORTUNITIES 
Specialists  in  placing  teachers,  de- 
partment heads,  administrators  in 
private  schools,  all  states.  Significant 
positions  for  new  and  experienced 
candidates.  No  initial  fee.  Brochure 
on  request  without  obligation. 

SCHOOL  SERVICE  BUREAU 

P.  O.  Box  278  W 

Windsor,  Connecticut 


1962 

Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr.  completed  re- 
quirements for  his  D.Sc.  in  Materials 
Science  at  the  University  of  Virginia 
in  February  and  is  now  a  research  specialist 
at  Lockheed-California  Co.,  Burbank.  .  . 
The  treasurer  of  Wiltek,  Inc.  in  Wilton, 
Conn.,  is  Joseph  W.  (Jay)  Fitzpatrick,  Jr. 
His  home  is  in  Norwalk.  .  .  Syracuse  Uni- 
versity awarded  Terry  Furhovden  an  MS 
degree  last  year,  and  he  is  now  project 
engineer — reliability  with  G.E.  in  Syra- 
cuse, N.Y.  .  .  Paul  W.  Goranson  is  a  stu- 
dent in  the  Dept.  of  Anthropology  at  the 
University  of  California  at  Santa  Barbara. 
.  .  Tech  Weld  Corp.  in  Burlington,  Mass. 
is  the  location  of  Walter  W.  Luikey,  a 
project  engineer.     Walt  earned  his  MBA 

47 


from  Northeastern  University  in  1968.  .  . 
John  H.  Reynolds  is  with  Comsat  Labora- 
tories in  Washington,  D.C.  He  is  on  the 
research  staff.  .  .  Sunny  Florida  is  the 
location  of  Eugene  A.  Rheault,  senior 
electronics  engineer  for  Martin  Marietta 
in  Orlando.  .  .  The  acting  City  Engineer 
in  Marlboro,  Mass.,  is  Paul  A.  Sharon. 
Paul,  a  former  assistant  city  engineer, 
had  been  employed  as  division  manager 
and  chief  construction  and  design  engineer 
for  the  Chas.  Logue  Building  Co.  in 
Needham.  Paul  and  his  wife,  Cecile, 
have  three  children.  .  .  The  state  of  Cali- 
fornia employs  Robert  H.  York  as  an 
assistant  civil  engineer  in  its  Dept.  of 
Water  Resources,  Sacramento.  .  .  The 
senior  civil  engineer  (traffic)  for  the  New 
York  State  Dept.  of  Transportation's  Div. 
of  Traffic  Engineering  and  Safety  in 
Albany,  N.Y.,  is  James  F.  Carrigan.  Jim 
received  his  MS  from  R.P.I,  in  1968.  .  . 
Analog  Devices  in  Cambridge,  Mass., 
employs  Martin  L.  Gross  as  an  applica- 
tions/sales engineer.  .  .  William  A.  Krein 
is  a  traveling  auditor  for  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  His  home  is 
in  Scotia. 

1963 

Born:  To  Capt.  and  Mrs.  Peter  Chuto- 
ransky,  Jr.,  a  son,  Peter  III.  Peter,  who 
received  his  Ph.D.  from  Worcester  Tech 
last  June,  will  soon  be  separated  from  the 
U.S.  Army  and  will  return  to  the  Mobil 
Research  and  Development  Corp.'s  Pauls- 
boro  (N.J.)  Laboratories  as  a  research 
chemical    engineer    in    catalyst    R&D. 

Attleboro,  Mass.,  is  the  location  of 
Paul  R.  Conlin,  Jr.  He  is  with  Texas 
Instrument  Co.  .  .  Roger  E.  Cray  is  a 
teacher  at  Worcester  Industrial  Technical 
Institute.  .  .  Having  received  his  Ph.D. 
from  Stanford  University  last  year,  Robert 
M.  Malbon  is  now  a  member  of  the  tech- 
nical staff  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  in 
Newport  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  Robert  E.  Maynard,  Jr.  is  with  New 
England  Tel.  &  Tel.  in  Northampton, 
Mass.  .  .  Former  Marine  Lieutenant  John 
A.  McGrath,  Jr.  is  now  a  graduate  student 
at  the  University  of  Massachusetts, 
Amherst.  .  .  Continuing  with  General  Elec- 
tric, Ronald  C.  Pueschel  is  now  unit  man- 
ager, rotary  switch  manufacturing,  Acces- 
sory Equipment  Business  Section,  at  the 
Bridgeport  (Conn.)  branch.  .  .  Leeds  & 
Northrup  in  N.  Wales,  Pa.,  employs 
Henry  B.  Schroeder  as  a  programmer.  He 
lives  in  King  of  Prussia.  .  .  Arthur  E. 
Goddard,  II,  who  received  his  MS  EE 
from  Montana  State  University  in  1968, 
is  a  research  engineer  with  Collins  Radio 
Co.  in  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa.  .  .  A  Ph.D. 
candidate  in  the  Mechanical  Engineering 
Dept.  at  the  University  of  Illinois  in 
Urbana  is  Peter  F.  Lilientkal,  II. 

48 


1964 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Rounds, 
Jr.,  their  first  child  and  son,  Robert  III, 
on  January  30,  1969.  Bob  and  his  wife 
Geraldine  live  in  Elma,  N.Y.  Moog,  Inc. 
in  E.  Aurora  employs  him  as  a  sales  engi- 
neer. .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank  Barry 
Sylvia,  a  son,  Barry  Brian,  on  January  12, 
1969.  They  also  have  a  daughter,  Allison 
Jean,  also  born  on  January  12,  1967. 
Frank  is  an  associate  engineer  with  Gen- 
eral Foods  Corp.  in  Dover,  Del.,  where 
they  also  make  their  home.  .  .  To  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Krantz,  a  daughter, 
Valerie  Lynn,  on  July  4,  1968.  Paul  is  a 
development  engineer  with  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Div.  of  United  Aircraft  Corp.  in  E. 
Hartford,  Conn. 

Ronald  J.  Gemma  is  a  radar  systems 
engineer  for  Raytheon  Co.  in  Wayland, 
Mass.  He  and  his  family  live  in  Framing- 
ham.  .  .  The  assistant  division  engineer 
for  the  Public  Service  Co.  of  New  Hamp- 
shire in  Lancaster  is  Robert  J.  Lotlero.  .  . 
David  T.  Stone  writes  that  he  and  his 
wife  Nancy  and  their  children,  Kristina 
(3)  and  Kevin  (1)  are  living  in  Foxboro, 
Mass.  David  is  working  as  a  develop- 
ment engineer  at  Allis  Chalmer's  Boston 
plant,  where  power  circuit  breakers  are 
developed  and  manufactured.  He  is  also 
attending  Northeastern  University  eve- 
nings for  his  MS  in  E.E.  .  .  Arthur  D. 
Little,  Inc.,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.,  is 
where  David  F.  Beaber  works.  Dave  re- 
ceived an  MBA  from  the  Wharton  Gradu- 
ate Div.  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

1965 

Married:  Richard  B.  Kennedy  to  Miss 
Mary  Ann  E.  Manning  of  Tyngsboroy 
Mass.,  on  July  27,  1968.  The  best  man 
was  Dick's  brother,  Francis  E.  Kennedy, 
Jr.,  '63,  and  the  ushers  were  Paul  S. 
Kennedy,  '67,  another  brother,  Philip  B. 
Ryan,  John  T.  Hart,  Patrick  T.  Moran, 
and  Charles  ./.  DeSimone,  Jr.  The  father 
of  the  three  Kennedy  alumni  is  Francis  E. 
Kennedy,  Sr.,  '30.  Dick  is  living  in 
Boxborough  and  working  as  a  salesman 
for  IBM  in  Worcester. 

Born:  To  Lt.  j.g.  and  Mrs.  Robert  B. 
Edwards,  their  first  child  and  son,  Robert, 
on  February  11,  1969.  Bob  is  stationed 
at  Mare  Island  Naval  Shipyard,  Vallejo, 
Calif  ,  and  is  on  the  instructor  staff  at 
Nuclear  Power  School.  .  .  To  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Kenneth  W.  Terry,  their  second  child 
and  first  daughter.  Traccy  Elizabeth,  on 
November  22,  1968.  Ken  is  still  working 
as  a  research  engineer  in  the  acoustic 
research  section  of  Research  and  Develop- 
ment at  General  Dynamics  Electric  Boat 
Div.,  (iroton.  Conn. 

We  received  the  following  note  from 
L$6  A    Chouinttrd:  "I  have  been  drafted 


into  the  Army  and  am  now  undergoing 
basic  training  at  Fort  Bliss,  Tex."  .  . 
The  Empire  Electrical  Co.  in  Medford, 
Mass.,  employs  Oscar  G.  Cook,  III  as  a 
sales  engineer.  .  .  Richard  C.  Fortier  is 
employed  as  a  research  engineer  for  AC 
Electronics  R&D  Lab  in  Wakefield,  Mass. 
He  plans  to  enter  Northeastern  University 
in  September  for  his  Ph.D.  in  M.E.  .  . 
James  B.  Gustafson  is  a  systems  analyst 
for  Air  Products  &  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Allen- 
town,  Pa.  He  and  his  wife,  Dorothy,  live 
in  Breinigsville.  .  .  Continuing  his  studies 
at  New  York  University,  Thomas  E.  Pease 
is  a  candidate  for  his  Ph.D.  in  oceanog- 
raphy. .  .  Another  Ph.D.  candidate  is 
David  M.  Schwaber.  He  is  at  the  Univer- 
sity of   Akron   (Ohio). 

1966 

Married:  Eugene  B.  Wilusz  to  Miss 
Nancy  Balut  of  New  Bedford,  Mass.,  on 
July  1,  1968.  Gene  received  his  MS  in 
chemical  engineering  from  M.I.T.  in 
January,  1968,  and  is  now  a  graduate 
student  in  the  Dept.  of  Polymer  Science 
and  Engineering  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts.  .  .  Thomas  J.  Mortimer  to 
Miss  Mary  Jane  Chiarenza  of  Methuen, 
Mass.,  on  March  29,  1969.  Among  the 
ushers  were  William  F.  Nickerson,  '65, 
and  Kendall  W.  Gordon,  Jr.  Tom  is 
employed  by  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua, 
N.H. 

Newly-promoted  Lt.  Russell  W.  Ed- 
monds is  a  data  systems  analyst  in  the 
Management  Science  and  Data  Systems 
Office  at  the  Maryland  headquarters  of 
the  U.S.  Army  Test  and  Evaluation  Com- 
mand. Russ  received  his  MS  in  manage- 
ment from  R.P.I,  in  1967.  .  .  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.  of  Worcester  employs  Anthony 
Simulynas  as  an  engineer  in  Applied  Re- 
search and  Development.  .  .  Lt.  j.g.  John 
B.  Tata  left  the  USS  Marysville  in  January 
for  duty  on  the  USS  Chowanoc,  where  he 
is  second  in  command.  Now  stationed 
in  San  Diego,  Calif.,  John  is  due  to  go  to 
Vietnam  in  August.  .  .  Boston,  Mass., 
is  the  location  of  Ching-Soo  Liu,  MS, 
who  is  a  structural  engineer  for  Charles  T. 
Main.  .  .  Continuing  with  General  Elec- 
tric, Richard  B.  Nelson  has  been  named 
to  a  new  marketing  position  in  the  In- 
stallation and  Service  Engineering  Dept. 
in    Schenectady,    N.Y. 

7967 
Robert  E.  DeNigris  is  a  mathematics 
instructor  at  New  York  Institute  of 
Technology.  New  York  City  .  .  Dr.  Lee  E. 
Ettet,  MS,  of  W.P.I. 's  E.E.  Dept..  was 
recently  promoted  to  assistant  professor. 
.  .  Walt  ham,  Mass.,  is  the  location  of 
Htumrll  .1.  I. like*.  He  is  an  application 
analyst  for  Control  Data  Corp.  .  .  Having 


The  Journal 


Don't  Miss 

Homecoming,  October  18,1969 


Fall  Sports  Schedule 


>ept. 


)ct. 


*Jov. 


20 
27 

4 

11 

*18 

25 

1 
8 


VARSITY  FOOTBALL  SCHEDULE 

Union  Home  2:00  p.m. 

Bowdoin  Away  1 :30  p.m. 

Middlebury  Home  2:00  p.m. 

Bates  Away  1 :30  p.m. 

Wesleyan  Home  2:00  p.m. 

Coast  Guard  Away  2:00  p.m. 

R.P.I.  Home  1:30  p.m. 

Norwich  Away  1 :30  p.m. 


'Homecoming 


VARSITY  SOCCER  SCHEDULE 

Sept.     27  Hartford 

Oct.         1  Holy  Cross 

4  Tufts 

8  M.I.T. 

14  Lowell 

*18  Clark 

21  Assumption 

25  Coast  Guard 

28  Mass.  U. 

30  B.  U. 

Nov.        5  A.I.C. 


Home 

2:00  p.m. 

Home 

3:30  p.m 

Away 

2:00  p.m 

Away 

Away 

3:00  p.m 

Home 

11:00  a.m 

Home 

3:30  p.m 

Away 

11:00  a.m 

Home 

3:00  p.m 

Away 

7:30  p.m 

Away 

2:30  p.m 

•ompleted  requirements  for  his  MS  degree 
In  nuclear  engineering  at  Texas  A&M 
University  in  January,  Robert  G.  Mc- 
■indrew  has  entered  U.S.  Navy  OCS  in 
Newport,  R.I.  .  .  A  field  engineer  for 
|Hombustion  Engineering,  Inc.,  Mukundray 
V.  Patel,  MS,  is  presently  located  in  New 
;  Florence,  Pa.  .  .  We  have  learned  that 
\lharles  F.  Proctor  is  a  test  engineer  for 
|AVCO,  Lycoming  Div.,  in  Stratford, 
ponn.  .  .  We  have  learned  of  two  mem- 
bers of  the  class  who  are  graduate  stu- 
dents at  R.P.I,  in  Troy,  N.Y.— Kenneth 
\U.  Rex  and  Harry  E.  Taylor.  .  .  We  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  Robert  D.  Watkins. 
I  'I  am  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Field 
Artillery  serving  with  Bravo  Battery, 
■  2nd  Battalion,  94th  Artillery  located  in 
:he  northern  portion  of  South  Vietnam. 
My  position  is  senior  fire  direction  officer 
'or  Bravo  Battery.  .  .  I  will  be  joining  the 
civilian  world  in  Sept.,  '69,"  he  writes.  .  . 
The  U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command  at 
Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.,  is  the  location  of 
\John  F.  Armata,  Jr.,  MS.  John's  home 
is  in  Long  Branch.  .  .  Having  received 
Ibis  Army  discharge  last  year,  Joseph  J. 
iCieplak  is  now  employed  by  USM  Fastener 
ICo.  in  Ansonia,  Conn.,  as  a  research  lab 
technician  and  is  attending  night  classes 
at  New  Haven  (Conn.)  College.  .  .  Attend- 
ing graduate  school  at  Clark  University 
[in  Worcester  is  Phillip  J.   Clark. 

The  Journal 


1968 

Married:  Joseph  A.  Borbone  to  Miss 
Rosalie  K.  Borek  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
February  8,  1969.  John  D.  MacDougall, 
Jr.  was  best  man.  Joe  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  for  Heald  Machine  Co.,  Worces- 
ter. .  .  John  J.  Korzick  to  Miss  Mary 
LaPaglia  of  Ansonia,  Conn.,  on  June  22, 
1968.  John  is  also  with  Heald,  in  sales 
engineering.  .  .  William  J.  McCann,  Jr. 
to  Miss  Louise  Marie  Damigella  of  Hol- 
liston,  Mass.,  on  March  1,  1969.  Bill 
reported  for  active  duty  in  the  Army 
on  May  18,  with  the  rank  of  second  lieu- 
tenant. .  .  Paul  F.  Stasko  to  Miss  Marina 
G.  Woitusch  of  Webster,  Mass.,  and 
Weiden,  Germany,  on  February  16,  1969. 
Paul  is  a  design  engineer  at  the  Ports- 
mouth (N.H.)  Naval  Shipyard.  .  .  Richard 
J.  Weeden  to  Miss  Betty  Sargent  of 
Sterling,  Mass.,  on  November  9,  1968. 
Dick  is  an  engineer  with  Raytheon  Co. 
in  Portsmouth,  R.I.  .  .  Peter  A.  Saltz  to 
Miss  Susan  J.  Edelstein,  on  June  30,  1968. 
Pete  is  presently  in  New  York  attending 
the  University  of  Rochester  Graduate 
School  of  Electrical  Engineering.  .  .  Bruce 
G.  Lovelace  to  Miss  Karen  Joyce  Spencer 
of  Framingham,  Mass.,  on  October  19, 
1968.  Best  man  was  Francis  W.  Maher, 
Jr.  and  William  P.  Stanton  was  an  usher. 
The  Lovelaces  now  live  in  Midland,  Mich., 
where  Bruce  is  employed  by  Dow  Chemi- 


cal Co.  as  a  production  development 
engineer  in  the  styrene  derivatives  section. 
Several  '68's  are  in  the  service.  Among 
them  are:  Army  2/Lt.  John  H.  Clinton, 
2/Lt.  John  W.  Elphinstone  (at  the  U.S. 
Army  Air  Defense  School,  Fort  Bliss, 
Tex.),  Richard  G.  Perreault,  Army  Pvt. 
Richard  A.  Westsmith  (in  Vietnam), 
2/Lt.  Richard  Kung  (at  Keesler  AFB, 
Miss.,  for  training  as  a  communications 
officer),  2/Lt.  Ronald  D.  Rehkamp,  USAF 
(assigned  to  the  University  of  Michigan 
for  training  as  a  weather  officer),  and 
2/Lt.    Lee  J.  Solaroli,  USAF. 


EDUCATIONAL  COUNSELOR 

Personalized  Placement  Service 
for  Teachers  and  Administrators 

TELL  ME  WHAT  YOU  WANT 
I  SHALLTRY  TO  FIND  IT  FOR  YOU 

34  years  Teacher-Headmaster 

Write  or  call: 

WILLIAM   S.   PIPER 

55  Cross  St.,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  01  545 

Telephone:  617-844-6205 

LET   EXPERIENCE   SHOW  THE  WAY 


EXPECT  THE  UNEXPECTED 
FROM 


NORTON 


A  TAPE  THAT  MUFFLES  SOUND. 


ii 


Norton  started  a  quiet  revolu- 
tion with  Bear*  vinyl  foam  tape 

Vinyl  means  it  literally  locks  out 
dust,  moisture  —  even  air  pollution.    V 
Foam  construction  means  it  cushions 
sound. 

The  fact  that  it  comes  in  self-sticking 
strips  means  it's  an  ideal  sealant  for 
wall  partitions,  windows  and  doors. 
The  perfect  way  to  keep  on  friendly 
terms  with  the  wind,  the  rain  and  the 
neighbors. 


Norton  makes  a  vast  variety  of  tapes 
for  industrial  and  household  uses. 
Other  Norton  contributions  to  mod- 
ern living  include  filters  to  make 
water  drinkable;  "gentle"  plastic- 
bonded  tumbling  media  to  mass- 
finish  delicate  dining  utensils;  the 

lightest/warmest  blanket  in  the  world 
—evolved  from  material  used  in  the 
NASA  Apollo  program.  Norton  Com- 
pany world-wide:    where  you  can 

expect  the  unexpected. 

Norton  Company,  WorceiOr,  Mituchuiett*  01606 


■the  ■ 

journal 


Apollo  demands  the  strength  of  forging. 

So  do  better  bulldozers  and 
turbojets  and  submarines  and... 


The  forging  know-how  in  150  Wyman-Gordon  forged 
parts  for  Saturn  V  also  provides  product  improvement 
for  tractors,  jumbo  jets,  turbine  engines,  nuclear  power. 

From  a  1 4-foot  aluminum  hold-down  post  to  a  2"  titanium 
fuel  line  fitting,  the  Saturn  V  forgings  provide  the  best  com- 
bination of  strength  and  lightweight  .  .  .  and  the  skills  of 
Wyman-Gordon  ensure  superior  properties  and  reliability. 

This  is  what  any  manufacturer  needs  in  high-stress  com- 
ponents— Wyman-Gordon's  total  capability  in  forging  . . . 
the  result  of  aggressive  concern  with  improved  technol- 
ogy. Wyman-Gordon  Company,  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Offices  in  Chicago,  Detroit,  Dayton,  Los  Angeles,  Fort 
Worth,  Seattle,  Bombay  and  Geneva. 


This  aluminum  forging  for 
Saturn  V  measures  38"  x  165", 
weighs  1,930  pounds.    There  are 
Wyman-Gordon  forgings  in  every 
major  American  space  vehicle. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 

Forgings  of  all  sizes  and  metals 


X 


2 

"1 . 


the 
journal 

Published  by  the  Alumni  Association 
of  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

W.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 

President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 

Vice  presidents: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30; 

R.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 

W.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 

Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 

S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,   Jr.  '36; 

Executive  Committee, 

Members-at- Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

P.  Wiley,  '35; 

Fund  Board: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  L  G.  Humphrey, 

Jr.,  '35;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38; 

L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34;  A.  Kalenian,  '33. 

Alumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Office  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Magazine  Secretary: 

Nance  C.  Thompson; 

Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter. 


Volume  73 


Fall 


Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

The  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
Spring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
matter  July  26,  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
year.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
Alumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


Stephen  James  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Alumni  Secretary 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  introduce  to  you 
Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  the  newly- 
elected  Assistant  Alumni  Secretary. 
Steve  will  fill  the  position  left  vacant 
by    Roy   A.   Seaberg,   '56,   who,  after 


seven  years  with  the  Association,  has 
become  an  Assistant  Director  of  Ad- 
missions at  Tech. 

Steve  was  born  in  Boston,  Mass., 
and  moved  to  Springfield,  Vt.,  at  an 
early  age.  He  attended  Springfield  High 
School  prior  to  his  entrance  to  Tech  in 
the  fall  of  1962.  He  majored  in  civil 
engineering,  receiving  his  B.S.  degree 
in  1966.  While  at  Tech,  Steve  was  very 
active;  he  was  president  of  Skull,  the 
senior  honorary  society;  chairman  of 
the  Assembly  Committee;  vice  presi- 
dent of  his  fraternity,  Sigma  Phi  Epsi- 
lon;  President  of  the  Student  Chapter 
of  A.S.C.E.;  Business  Manager  of  The 
Peddler;  and  Treasurer  of  his  class. 

After  graduation,  Steve  joined  the 
staff  of  Springfield  (Vt.)  High  School. 
He  taught  mechanical  drawing  and 
physics,  coached  football  and  basket- 
ball, and  was  also  acting  athletic 
director  this  past  year. 

We  hope  you  will  have  a  chance  to 
meet  him  personally  in  the  coming 
year. 


In  this  Issue  — 


Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard  Inaugurated  as 

Eleventh  President  of  W.P.I Page  2 

Homecoming  1969  -  Largest  and  Best  Ever         .     .  .Page  8 

The  Future  of  Two  Towers 

Part  III:  A  Model          Page  10 

Admissions:  An  Important  Role Page  14 

Annual  Alumni  Fund  Report 

1968-69         Page  18 

Departments 

Undergraduate  Viewpoint Page  30 

In  Memory Page  31 

Your  Class  and  Others         Page  34 


THE  JOURNAL 


Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard  Inaugurated 
As  Eleventh  President  Of  W.P.I. 


Dr.  George  William  Hazzard  was  inaugurated  as  the 
eleventh  President  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  on 
Friday,  October  17.  The  well-planned  and  stately  ceremony 
was  attended  by  approximately  250  delegates  from  sister 
institutions  of  higher  learning  and  by  a  large  delegation  of 
trustees,  administrators,  faculty,  alumni,  and  friends.  Dr. 
Hazzard's  inauguration  was  the  first  to  be  held  in  Harring- 
ton Auditorium  and  was  preceded  by  a  luncheon  in  Morgan 
Hall  for  850  people. 

The  Reverend  Raymond  J.  Swords,  S.J.,  President  of 
the  College  of  the  Holy  Cross,  gave  the  Invocation  and 
Benediction,  and  the  Honorable  Francis  W.  Sargent,  Gov- 
ernor of  Massachusetts,  extended  the  greetings  of  the 
Commonwealth.  Professor  George  E.  Pake  of  Washington 
University  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  and  a  long-time  friend  of  Dr. 
Hazzard's,  introduced  the  President,  after  which  Dr. 
William  E.  Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
gave  the  charge  to  the  President  and  presented  him  with  the 
school  seal.  Music  was  provided  by  the  Worcester  Inter- 
collegiate Symphonic  Band  and  a  combined  chorus  from 
the  Worcester  area. 

Following  the  ceremonies,  a  reception  was  held  on  the 
quadrangle. 

President  Hazzard's  Inaugural  Address  follows: 

Ladies  and  gentlemen,  delegates  from  colleague  insti- 
tutions and  societies,  members  of  the  Worcester  and 
Worcester  Tech  community,  Governor  Sargent,  and  friends, 
friends  new  and  old.  Thank  you  for  coming.  Thank  you  for 
honoring  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  its  104th  year. 

The  presence  here  of  so  many  friends  o.  mine  and  of 
the  college  makes  this  a  heartwarming  moment  for  me,  a 
moment  I  shall  long  remember. 

The  responsibilities  I  accept  from  students,  faculty, 
alumni,  and  trustees  make  this  a  challenging  moment.  It  is  a 
moment  for  facing  and  interpreting  the  task  I  have  been 
asked  to  undertake. 

The  very  personal  nature  of  this  small  institution  makes 
this  a  moment  for  direct  personal  expression  of  my  present 


views  on  engineering  education.  It  is  the  moment  for  saying 
that  I  believe  engineering  education  is  better  called  tech- 
nologically-based education  and  explaining  why. 

It  is  a  moment  for  talking  about  a  professional  school 
and  for  reiterating  the  values  implicit  in  the  use  of  the  word 
professional. 

Finally,  it  is  a  moment  for  humility.  A  scientist  knows 
that  he  can  only  see  further  because  he  stands  on  the 
shoulders  of  those  who  labored  before  him. 

Today  man  is  where  he  is  only  because  so  many 
previous  generations  of  men  thought,  and  said,  and  did 
things  that  inspired  others  to  improve  on  what  went  before. 
All  men  have  related  such  efforts  to  some  view  of  the  world 
—  how  the  world  is  or  how  it  ought  to  be. 

What  I  propose  to  discuss  is  my  view  of  how  the  world 
is  or  how  our  society  is  and  how  engineering  education, 
technologically-based  education,  professional  education, 
can  serve  that  society.  In  so  doing,  I  am  asserting  a 
philosophy  of  higher  education  as  applied  to  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  and  suggesting  some  implications  of 
that  philosophy  for  the  Worcester  Tech  community. 

Society  today  is  technologically-based.  No  one  can 
deny  the  evidence  of  instant  communication  after  the 
Apollo  11  moon  walk.  Or  of  almost  instant  transportation 
after  lunching  in  London  and  dining  in  New  York.  Or  of  an 
incredibly  interdependent  technical  distribution  system 
when  eating  fruit  from  Texas  or  Israel  while  stuck  in  a 
Manhattan  elevator  in  a  power  blackout.  In  a  sense,  the 
medium  of  modern  technology  is  the  message. 

Such  being  the  case  I  believe  technologically-based 
education  provides  a  major  hope  for  the  creation  of  an 
informed  citizenry  able  to  act  on  and  be  aware  of  the 
problems  of  this  modern  society.  But  a  very  special  kind  of 
technical  education  is  required  -  an  education  that  will 
produce  technological  humanists. 

For  what  technological  humanism  means  I  am  indebted 
to  Sir  Eric  Ashby  and  his  illustrious  countryman,  Alfred 
North  Whitehead. 


THE   JOURNAL 


As  Ashby  says: 

"The  habit  of  apprehending  a  technology  in  its  com- 
pleteness: this  is  the  essence  of  technological  humanism, 
and  this  is  what  we  should  expect  education  in  higher 
technology  to  achieve." 

And  Whitehead  explains  this  further.  He  says: 

"There  is  something  between  the  gross  specialized 
values  of  the  mere  practical  man,  and  the  thin  specialized 
values  of  the  mere  scholar.  Both  types  have  missed 
something;  and  if  you  add  together  the  two  sets  of  values, 
you  do  not  obtain  the  missing  elements.  When  you 
understand  all  about  the  sun  and  all  about  the  atmosphere 
and  all  about  the  rotation  of  the  earth,  you  may  still  miss 
the  radiance  of  the  sunset.  There  is  no  substitute  for  the 
direct  perception  of  the  concrete  achievement  of  a  thing  in 
its  actuality....  A  factory,  with  its  machinery,  its  com- 
munity of  operatives,  its  social  service  to  the  general 
population,  its  dependence  upon  organizing  and  designing 
genius,  its  potentialities  as  a  source  of  wealth  to  the  holders 
of  its  stock  is  an  organism  exhibiting  a  variety  of  vivid 
values.  What  we  want  to  train  is  the  habit  of  apprehending 
such  an  organism  in  its  completeness." 

In  other  words,  the  person  with  a  technologically-based 
education  must  do  more  than  the  scientist-  The  scientist  has 
to  preoccupy  himself  with  abstractions  from  reality  for  that 
is  the  power  of  science.  The  engineer  has  to  respond  to  the 
assertion  that  he  is  a  professional.   For  any  professional 


school,  be  it  medicine,  or  law,  or  engineering,  produces 
graduates  dedicated  to  service  to  society.  Its  graduate  must 
be  concerned  with  the  whole  reality,  including  real  people. 

Since  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  is  one  of  less  than 
two  dozen  private  technical  universities  in  this  most 
technically-oriented  of  countries,  it  behooves  us  to  respond 
vigorously  and  creatively  to  such  a  challenge. 

To  educate  technological  humanists  is  to  respond  to 
several  aspects  of  modern  society  —  to  science  and  its 
evolutionary  building  of  a  more  complete  explanation  of 
nature  on  earlier,  less  general  paradigms;  to  the  young  and 
their  intuitive,  but  expressed,  wish  for  greater  individual 
self-realization;  to  the  problems  of  the  real  world  where  the 
very  successes  of  science  and  technology  in  solving  old 
problems  have  created  a  whole  set  of  new  ones;  and  to  the 
developing  knowledge  from  the  social  sciences  on  how 
people  learn. 

Once  upon  a  time,  I  was  a  scientist.  So  let  me  start  with 
science.  As  every  scientist  knows,  science  is  a  stimulating 
and  frustrating  mix  of  the  radical  and  the  conservative. 
Each  new  idea  has  the  potential  for  completely  changing 
the  existing  state  of  affairs  (though  rarely  now  does  a 
scientist  get  tried  by  the  Inquisition  as  did  Galileo  for  his 
ideas  coming  from  mechanics  and  optics).  But  simulta- 
neously each  idea  must  stand  the  test  of  practicality.  Can  it 
explain  information  that  was  known  before  while  simulta- 
neously predicting  and  explaining  the  knowledge  implied 


by  that  idea? 

Thus  a  person  with  scientific  training  is  automatically  a 
radical  and  a  conservative  in  his  own  field  once  he  is 
creative  enough  to  have  new  ideas.  Every  radical  new  idea 
has  to  stand  the  conservative  test  of  fitting  the  facts  or 
being  operationally  sound.  Scientific  training  enables  one  to 
learn  how  to  live  with  change  yet  relate  it  to  the  past. 

Simultaneously  the  scientist  must  develop  a  set  of 
values.  He  must  be  truthful;  for  others  check  his  facts.  He 
must  share  his  knowledge  with  others;  for  they  have  shared 
with  him.  He  must  give  credit  to  others  for  the  ideas  on 
which  he  builds;  as  they  must  credit  him.  If  this  all  sounds 
like  the  Golden  Rule,  it  isn't  very  surprising.  Science  really 
burgeoned  when  Puritan  man  decided  that  investigating  and 
elucidating  Nature's  secrets  was  the  best  way  to  glorify 
God. 

The  study  of  science  and  its  methods  must  be  part  of 
the  education  of  a  technological  humanist. 

Now  how  about  the  problems  of  the  real  world 
stemming  from  our  on-rushing  technological  advances? 
Here  I  must  join  Lee  DuBridge,  Science  Advisor  of 
President  Nixon,  in  saying  that  "Success  has  led  only  to 
rising  expectations  and  to  mounting  accusations  of  failure. 
Or  so  it  seems." 

Actually  a  greater  fraction  of  the  world's  population  is 
better  housed,  better  fed,  and  has  better  health  than  ever 
before  in  history.  Yet  all  of  us  want  everyone  to  participate 
in  these  advantages.  And  all  of  us  want  better  solutions  to 
housing,  transportation,  pollution,  war,  and  above  all,  the 
threat  of  the  bomb. 

Technology  holds  the  key  to  possible  solutions  if  it  can 
be  combined  with  the  developing  knowledge  of  the  social 
sciences  and  the  mutual  respect  and  understanding  between 
individuals  and  groups  that  comes  from  shared  values.  And 
here  I  repeat,  technology  can  provide  the  means.  Each  of  us 
must  provide  the  social  and  ethical  understanding.  No 
longer  can  engineering  education  be  undertaken  as  an 
escape  from  the  reality  of  people.  Not  many  of  us  can 
fulfill  Walter  Lippman's  wish,  "I'd  like  to  have  been  born  a 
great  mathematician  or  something  like  that  where  I  would 
have  dealt  with  problems  that  didn't  require  dealing  with 
the  everlasting  persnickitiness  of  human  nature." 

The  study,  understanding,  and  use  of  the  social  sciences 
and  the  humanities  must  be  part  of  the  education  of  the 
technological    humanist. 

Neither  the  great  ordering  principles  of  physical  science 
nor  the  growing  understanding  of  groups  or  individuals  by 
social  science  provide  evidence  to  modern  youth  that  each 
person  can  remain  a  person  and  not  become  a  thing,  a 
number,  a  pawn  on  an  overpopulated  world  chessboard. 
The  great  gatherings  at  Newport,  Bethel,  or  Lewisville  speak 
to  that  need  to  be  someone;  to  be  real  to  someone  else;  to 
share  emotions  like  love  and  kindness.  Or  in  other  words, 
our  higher  educational  system  must  respond  to  this  need; 
must  show  that  scientists  and  engineers  are  individual  and 


...  AN    EDUCATION 

THAT   WILL   PRODUCE 

TECHNOLOGICAL  HUMANISTS 


human;  that  they  work  in  a  value  system  of  individual 
contribution  for  the  good  of  all. 

What  this  means  is  that  each  student  needs  to  be  helped 
to  find  his  own  way  to  the  conclusion  of  his  college 
education.  Each  individual  student  will  be  a  wool  thread 
held  by  the  wrap  of  faculty  guidance,  all  together  forming 
the  brilliant  woven  patterns  of  the  university.  Being 
different  from  all  others  but  part  of  a  total  pattern  seems  a 
necessity  for  all  of  us. 

Personalized  and  individualized  teaching  and  learning 
must  be  part  of  the  education  of  the  technological 
humanist.  All  of  the  above  needs  might  never  be  met  by  a 
technical  institution  like  W.P.I,  were  it  not  for  technology 
and  science  itself.  Here  I  refer  to  the  considerable  progress 
now  being  made  in  that  difficult  and  complicated  area 
called  "the  learning  process."  Much  of  the  activity  is 
directed  toward  young  children  for  purposes  of  simplifi- 
cation; toward  simple  cognitive  or  tactile  situations.  Yet 
progress  in  understanding  is  considerable. 

Conscious  experimentation  with  the  learning  process 
must  be  part  of  the  education  of  the  technological 
humanist.  Only  thus  can  he  learn  and  learn  how  to  continue 
to  learn  in  this  world  of  accelerated  change. 

These  four  main  trends  form  the  challenge  to  any 
technological  university.  How  do  we  combine  broad  general 
principles,  real  social  problems,  individual  learning,  and 
optimal  teaching-learning  methods  into  a  coherent,  recog- 
nizable, unique  whole?  This  challenge  is  one  I  believe  W.P.I, 
is  ready  to  accept.  One  to  which  it  will  rise  in  the  first 
decade  of  its  second  century. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  some  possible  methods  for  reaching 
these  goals  at  W.P.I.,  methods  which  may  combine  here 
into  a  distinctive  kind  of  technologically-based  education. 
What  I  say  here  has  already  been  said  in  part  to  the  W.P.I, 
community  but  not  to  all  that  community  at  the  same  time 
and  place.  Presumptuous  this  may  be  after  three  months  on 
the  job,  but  non-squeaky  wheels  get  little  grease. 

Many  of  these  educational  objectives  are  best  reached 
by  operating  a  small  institution,  a  college  where  students 
and  faculty  and  administration  can  know  each  other  as 
people  rather  than  symbols,  as  individuals  rather  than  as 
"they".  With  an  undergraduate  population  of  less  than 
2,000  we  are  a  small  college  by  today's  standards.  It  is 
imperative  that  we  remain  small  and  that  our  student  body 
and    faculty    continue   and    extend    the    friendliness   and 


THE    JOURNAL 


Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  congratulates  President  Hazzard, 


THE  JOURNAL 


participation  already  here.  I  must  confess  that  I  don't  have 
a  really  good  definition  of  smallness.  But  I  can  say  that  a 
college  remains  small  until  it  starts  breaking  apart  into  units 
without  common  loyalties  or  until  faculty  members  start 
saying  there  are  so  many  students  that  they  can't  know  a 
large  fraction  of  them  so  they  won't  try  to  know  any. 

At  the  same  time,  one  has  to  deal  with  the  knowledge 
explosion  and  the  consequent  growth  of  specialization. 
Smallness  may  deprive  a  student  of  many  opportunities 
that  exist  in  a  large  institution.  We  must  in  many  ways  be 
large.  Luckily  the  situation  in  Worcester  permits  us  to  be 
both  small  and  large  simultaneously.  After  all  there  are  over 
13,000  students  enrolled  in  Worcester  institutions  of  higher 
education  today,  institutions  different  in  character,  educa- 
tion objectives,  specialties,  and  student  background.  With 
this  size,  produced  by  ten  institutions,  all  essentially  within 
15  minutes  of  each  other,  we  have  a  tremendous  oppor- 
tunity to  provide  the  qualities  of  the  large  institution. 

With  the  formal  incorporation  of  Worcester  Consortium 
for  Higher  Education  and  the  employment  of  a  full  time 
executive  director,  we  are  well  on  our  way  in  this  respect.  I 
look  forward  with  pleasure  to  the  results  of  our  mutual 
enthusiasm  for  this  consortium.  It  is  especially  rewarding  to 
continue  this  effort  pioneered  by  my  predecessor,  President 
Storke. 

We  shall  remain  small  within  the  matrix  of  a  large 
institution.  But  large  or  small,  we  can  still  miss  the  close 
student-faculty  interaction  that  is  one  of  our  major  goals  if 
faculty  commitment  and  internal  organizational  mecha- 
nisms are  not  there.  Here  is  where  we  have  already  made 
real  progress.  Our  Planning  Committee  has  been  working 
for  almost  a  year  on  meeting  the  goals  I  have  outlined. 
Involving  faculty,  students,  and  administration,  the  com- 
mittee has  produced  what  I  consider  to  be  creative  answers. 
These  answers  were  discussed  intensively  and  constructively 
by  over  400  members  of  the  Worcester  Tech  community  on 
Planning  Day  II  just  two  weeks  ago. 

Let  me  outline  the  major  points  to  show  one  way  to  be 
creative  In  American  higher  education.  First  is  individual 
student  program  planning  through  four  years  with  the  same 
faculty  advisor  to  develop  and  carry  out  each  student's 
course  of  study.  Second  is  the  emphasis  on  individual  study 
through  seminar,  library,  or  on  the  job  activities.  Large 
lectures  there  will  be  but  the  lecturer  will  focus  on  an 
integration  of  facts  and  ideas  into  a  creative  whole. 

Third  is  the  use  of  project  activity  for  over  a  quarter  of 
the  student's  academic  work.  Projects  of  two  kinds  are 
envisaged:  those  typical  of  a  disciplinary  orientation  within 
the  college  laboratory  or  classroom  and  those  oriented  to 
the  societal  activities  of  engineers  in  the  outside  world. 
Here  in  groups  of  3  to  5,  students  with  a  faculty  leader  can 
do  relevant,  constructive,  and  challenging  activities. 
Students  and  faculty  will  have  to  learn  together.  Addition- 
ally we  hope  to  involve  many  alumni  in  these  projects  —  a 
life-long  laboratory  school  so  to  speak.  You  might  say  that 


here  we  are  combining  the  pragmatism  of  John  Dewey  with 
the  idealism  of  Mark  Hopkins.  Finally,  testing  and  examina- 
tion will  come  from  outside,  providing  each  student  and  his 
teachers  with  a  critical  evaluation  of  his  college  achieve- 
ment, of  his  preparedness  to  contribute  to  the  society  that 
will  support  him. 

All  these  ideas,  good  in  themselves,  would  be  useless 
without  a  commitment  from  faculty  and  students.  The 
faculty  member  must  provide  the  model  of  a  concerned, 
learning,  dedicated  contributor.  The  student  must  accept 
great  responsibility  for  his  own  progress  in  return  for  his 
freedom  to  learn.  I  say  to  my  faculty  and  student 
colleagues:  This  is  a  challenge  I  dare  you  to  accept. 

Most  difficult  of  all,  I  expect,  is  adopting  new  learning 
and  teaching  techniques  and  then  measuring  our  success  in 
their  use.  Even  if  we  succeed  in  introducing  new  learning 
methods  or  "improve"  on  the  old,  how  are  we  to  know 
whether  we  do  better  or  worse  in  creating  a  graduate  fitted 
for  his  chosen  role  in  society?  How  do  we  know  if  just 
change  in  itself  is  not  the  most  effective  learning  stimulus? 

Measuring  the  effectiveness  of  education  is  an  elusive 
thing  at  best.  Here,  then,  is  a  challenge  to  the  expert 
measurers  and  to  the  foundations  or  to  our  federal  agencies. 
Who  can  measure  our  success  or  failure  and  who  will 
support  them  in  the  process? 

In  this  present  time  of  social  stress,  the  universities  are 
under  pressure  from  students  for  relevance,  from  the 
government  for  problem  solving,  from  parents  for  being  too 
expensive  and  contentious.  You  may  have  wondered  why  I 
have  not  said  more  about  such  matters.  Implicitly  I  have, 
but  let  me  be  explicit. 

The  business  of  W.P.I,  is  to  be  an  educational  institu- 
tion. It  is  not  a  consulting  firm,  a  baby-sitter,  or  a  research 
institute.  It  cannot  be  a  political  instrument,  an  arm  of 
industry  or  government.  It  must  look  at  each  part  or 
problem  of  society  and  selectively  utilize  it  for  the 
education  of  the  men  and  women  who  choose  to  come 
here.  Only  thus  can  a  private,  independent,  technologi- 
cally-oriented university  college  justify  its  existence.  Only 
thus  will  it  continue  properly  to  deserve  the  support  of 
parents,  alumni,  business,  foundations,  government,  trus- 
tees, and  friends. 

I  have  shared  with  you  some  hopes  and  dreams  for 
Worcester  Tech  and  its  people.  How  well  we  shall  succeed  I 
cannot  tell.  But  I  doubt  we  shall  fail  if  I  can  do  as  Robert 
Frost  said: 

"When  I  was  young  my  teachers  were  the  old. 

I  gave  up  fire  for  form  till  I  was  cold. 

I  suffered  like  a  metal  being  cast. 

I  went  to  school  to  age  to  learn  the  past. 

"Now  I  am  old  my  teachers  are  the  young. 

What  can't  be  moulded  must  be  cracked  and  sprung. 

I  strain  at  lessons  fit  to  start  a  suture. 

I  go  to  school  to  youth  to  learn  the  future." 


THE   JOURNAL 


Left:  Left  to  Right  -  Mrs.  Anne  (Hazzard)  Trenholme, 
Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard,  Miss  Ruth  Hazzard, 
and  Mrs.  Jean  Hazzard. 


Below:  Left  to  Right, 
Paul  S.  Morgan,  Trustee, 
Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38,  Trustee, 
and  President  Hazzard. 


THE  JOURNAL 


HOMECOMING 

1969 


LARGEST  AND  BEST  EVER 


A  windy  autumn  day  set  the  scene  for  the  1969 
Homecoming  celebration.  The  Sweetwater  concert  and 
fireworks  which  were  held  Friday  night  had  been  a  good 
omen  for  the  next  day's  activities. 

Registration  began  early,  and  by  the  time  the  soccer 
game  had  started  at  11:00  A.M.  the  baseball  field  had 
begun  to  fill  with  cars.  The  soccer  team  lost  its  contest  to 
Clark  2-0.  Over  400  alumni  and  families  registered  for  the 
combined  tailgate  picnic  and  barbecue.  Trunks  were  raised 
and  tailgates  opened  with  groups  gathering  to  renew  old 
friendships.  The  tailgate  prize  for  the  best  spread  of  food, 
awarded  for  the  first  time  this  year,  was  shared  by  Carl  W. 
Backstrom,  '30,  and  Iving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44. 

The  football  game  with  Wesleyan  was  the  highlight  of 
the  afternoon.  Coach  Mel  Massucco  and  his  squad  gave  the 
crowd  of  over  4,500  many  exciting  moments  in  their  losing 
cause  to  Wesleyan  21-13.  The  Engineers  generally 
out-played  and  out-hit  the  visiting  undefeated  Cardinals, 
but  were  hampered  by  miscues.  At  half-time,  Warren  B. 
Zepp,  '42,  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  awarded  the  Home- 
coming Display  Trophy  to  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity, 
with  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  receiving  honorable  mention.  The 
freshmen  won  the  annual  Freshman-Soph  Rope  Pull  follow- 
ing the  game. 

The  Reunion  of  the  classes  of  '59-'63  was  held 
following  the  football  game  in  the  form  of  a  social  hour  in 
the  Janet  Earle  Room  of  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium,  and 
there  was  a  large  turnout  for  this  inaugural  event. 

Homecoming  continued  as  various  groups  gathered  to 
return  to  their  fraternity  houses  or  to  have  dinner  at  local 
restaurants.  For  those  who  desired,  there  was  a  concert 
Saturday  night  featuring  Richie  Havens  and  a  Sunday 
concert  featuring  the  New  York  Jazz  Sextet. 


Courtesy  ■  Worcester  Sunday  Telegram 


THE   JOURNAL 


Courtesy  -  Worcester  Sunday  Telegram 


Left:  Richard  Lucey,  '55, 

and  his  family  enjoy  the  tailgate  picnic. 


Courtesy  -  Worcester  Sunday  Telegram 


THE   JOURNAL 


PART 


The  Future  of 
Two  Towers 


A  MODEL 

The  faculty  Planning  Committee  has  published  its  third 
report  containing  a  model  for  the  future  of  Worcester  Tech. 
The  committee  consists  of  Professors  John  P.  van  Alstyne, 
John  M.  Boyd,  William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  Charles  R.  Heventhal, 
Romeo  L.  Moruzzi,  and  C.  William  Shipman.  Stating  "It 
should  be  the  goal  of  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  to 
teach  its  science-  and  engineering-oriented  students  to  learn 
for  themselves  and  to  develop  in  them  an  understanding  of 
the  interplay  between  technological  advance  and  human 
need,"  the  report  proposed  a  radically  new  unstructured 
curriculum  which  would  emphasize  projects  and  independ- 
ent study  and  the  relationship  of  technology  to  society. 
Under  the  new  model,  the  present  academic  departments 
would  be  abolished  and  replaced  by  "Study  Groups,"  which 
would  be  based  on  common  areas  of  study. 

The  Committee  proposed  the  following  goal  for  Worces- 
ter Tech: 

"It  is  the  goal  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  to 
bring  into  the  second  century  of  its  existence  a  new,  dy- 
namic version  of  its  great  Two  Tower  tradition.  In  its  first 
century,  W.P.I,  pioneered  the  integration  of  science  and 
shop;  in  its  second  century,  W.P.I,  will  pioneer  in  scientific 
service  to  society. 

"The  W.P.I,  graduate  of  the  future  must  have  an  under- 
standing of  a  sector  of  science  and  technology  and  a  mature 
understanding  of  himself  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
around  him.  While  an  undergraduate  he  must  demonstrate 
that  he  can  learn  and  can  translate  his  learning  into  worth- 
while action.  He  must  learn  to  teach  himself  those  things 
that  are  needed  to  make  his  actions  socially  significant.  A 
W.P.I,  education  should  develop  a  strong  degree  of  self- 
confidence,  an  eagerness  to  contribute  to  the  community 
beyond  oneself,  and  an  intellectual  restlessness,  a  spur  to 
continued  learning." 


10 


THE   JOURNAL 


To  accomplish  this  goal,  the  report  outlined  an  educa- 
tional program  featuring  no  required  courses.  In  the  words 
of  the  report,  "Because  a  primary  objective  of  the  college 
should  be  to  teach  the  student  to  learn,  and  because  this 
process  is  highly  individualistic,  it  seems  advisable  to  have 
as  little  formal  curricular  structure  as  possible.  The  lack  of 
structure  has  the  virtue  of  providing  at  once  the  flexibility 
needed  and  the  requirement  that  the  student  develop  the 
self-reliance  characteristic  of  a  truly  educated  person." 

To  accomplish  this,  projects  and  independent  study  pro- 
grams will  play  a  major  role  and  the  student  is  expected  to 
put  a  minimum  of  25%  of  his  total  academic  work  into 
this  part  of  the  program.  Two  types  of  projects  will  exist: 

a)  Research  and  development  projects  of  the  type  com- 
mon to  most  technical  college  research  programs. 

b)  Humanistic-technological  projects.  In  the  words  of 
the  report,  "Examples  of  these  projects  might  be:  the  ef- 
fect of  a  new  north-south  toll  road  on  the  people  of  central 
Massachusetts;  the  economic,  technical,  and  social  implica- 
tions of  a  law  restricting  pollution  of  the  Blackstone  River; 
...  It  is  this  type  of  involvement  which  is  designed  to  bring 
the  student  to  a  familiarity  with  technology  as  a  service  to 
society,  leading  him  to  a  sense  of  professionalism  in  the 
sense  of  assuming  responsibility  for  some  area  of  society's 
needs,  and  showing  him  the  relevance  of  his  studies  of  hu- 
man behavior." 

It  is  also  suggested  that  "a  fair  fraction  of  the  projects  be 
centered  off-campus." 

The  projects  would  come  in  four  different  sizes:  Type 
A:  Individual  Work;  Type  B:  Individual  Team  Projects: 
three-man  units;  Type  C:  Comprehensive  Project  Activi- 
ties: two  sub-units  of  three  to  four  students  each,  combin- 
ing upperclassmen  with  underclassmen  and/or  technical  and 
humanistic  efforts;  Type  D:  Systems  Project  Divisions: 
Groups  of  fifteen  from  a  variety  of  levels  and  study  inter- 
ests. 

Upperclassmen  and  graduate  students  would  be  in  posi- 
tions of  leadership. 

Courses  would  be  offered  to  "bring  coherence  to  what 
has  been  learned  in  the  projects  .  .  .  and  to  lead  the  student 
from  the  curricular  disciplines  of  the  American  secondary 
schools  to  the  unstructured  system  proposed." 

Three  main  types  of  courses  would  be  offered: 
a)  Courses  designed  to  supply  preliminary  information  and  a 
transition  to  W.P.I. 's  unstructured  system;  b)  Short  courses 
of  the  "how-to-do-it"  type  to  aid  in  acquiring  specific  tech- 
niques as  they  are  needed;  c)  Summary  courses.  These 
would  be  of  the  lecture-supervision  type.  A  lecturer  would 
present  the  material  to  a  hundred  or  so  students  and  a 
supervisor,  meeting  with  four  students  at  a  time,  would  an- 
swer questions  and  go  over  solutions  to  specific  problems. 

No  prerequisites  would  be  required  for  a  course. 

Professor  Shipman,  a  member  of  the  Faculty  Planning 
Committee,  commented  that  one  critical  point  in  the  aca- 


demic program  would  be  the  transition  of  the  Freshmen 
from  a  structured  high  school  background  to  an  unstruc- 
tured college.  He  said  that  the  kinds  of  freshman  courses 
would  have  to  be  a  lot  different  from  the  present  courses, 
and  would  have  to  be  designed  to  lead  a  student  to  learn  on 
his  own,  and  that  a  freshman  would  be  involved  in  project 
work.  He  suggested  that  such  courses  as  "The  Philosophy 
of  Science"  and  "The  History  of  Science"  might  be 
appropriate. 

In  regard  to  the  student  body  in  general,  he  stated  his 
belief  that  a  "much  larger  percentage  of  the  present  stu- 
dents could  handle  the  suggested  program  than  the  faculty 
believes."  He  also  felt  that  we  could  attract  students  from  a 
much  wider  area  than  we  do  presently. 

Although  only  the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Science  would 
be  given,  students  will  be  able  to  "major"  in  a  Study  Group 
or  Division  Area.  This  quote  from  the  report  may  help  ex- 
plain the  Committee's  concept  of  study  groups: 

"Because  of  the  problem  orientation  of  the  program  and 
the  increasing  overlap  of  the  various  traditional  disci- 
plines, it  seems  wise  at  this  point  to  abandon  the  depart- 
mental structure  of  the  faculty  and  to  regroup  into  com- 
mon areas  of  study  -  Study  Groups.  It  is  not  to  be  inferred 
that  there  need  be  any  permanence  to  a  Study  Group,  for 
in  the  course  of  time  it  will  be  necessary  to  dissolve  some 
and  establish  others.  The  Dean  of  Academic  Resources 
must  bear  the  ultimate  responsibility  for  seeing  that  the 
Study  Groups  remain  relevant.  It  is  important  to  recognize 
that  the  common  denominator  in  the  Study  Groups  is  the 
problem  orientation  rather  than  the  academic  background 
of  the  members.  The  Study  Groups  are  collected  into  three 
divisions." 

The  following  degree  requirements  were  suggested: 

1.  "Acceptable  advanced-level  work  on  two  projects  or 
independent  study  programs,  a)  It  is  strongly  urged  that  at 
least  one  be  of  the  humanistic-technological  type,  b)  It  is 
strongly  urged  that  at  least  one  of  the  qualifying  projects  be 
centered  off-campus. 

"Advanced  level  work  must  produce  a  tangible  result 
(usually  in  the  form  of  a  written  report)  which  shall  be 
judged  not  only  for  technical  content  but  also  for  manner 
of  presentation  both  by  the  project  supervisor  and  external 
examiners  .  .  .  Grades  will  be  assigned  for  all  project  work 
as  follows:  A-Acceptable;  AWD-Acceptable  with  Distinc- 
tion; NA-Not  Acceptable. 

2.  "A  minimum  residence  of  two  years  is  suggested  be- 
cause of  the  importance  of  the  environment  to  be  estab- 
lished." 

3.  "Examinations:  a)  A  comprehensive  examination  in  a 
division  or  study  group  area.  This  examination  may  include 
oral  as  well  as  written  parts,  should  be  of  the  "open 
library"  type,  and  must  be  the  work  of  the  student 
alone  .  .  .  the  examination  should  confront  the  student  with 
the  unfamiliar,  b)  Two  "sufficiency"  examinations  in  areas 


THE   JOURNAL 


11 


other  than  that  of  the  comprehensive,  at  least  one  of  which 
should  be  in  a  different  division  from  that  of  the  compre- 
hensive. 

"Grades  for  these  examinations  will  be  A  or  AWD  (an 
unsuccessful  attempt  is  not  recorded)  and  the  examina- 
tions may  be  taken  at  any  time  after  matriculation  with  the 
approval  of  the  student's  advisor." 

ADVISOR  EXPLANATION 

A  different  part  of  the  report  explains  the  advisor.  "The 
entering  student  is  assigned  to  an  advisor  who  sees  the  stu- 
dent through  the  program  ...  it  is  essential  that  the  student 
records  be  computerized  so  that  the  advisors  can  have  at 
hand  all  information  for  counseling  the  student.  Obviously, 
the  project  supervisor  may  have  the  best  and  closest  con- 
tact with  the  student  and  can  give  considerable  assistance  to 
the  advisor.  The  exact  relationship  of  the  student  to  his  ad- 
visor will  depend  in  large  measure  on  the  student  living 
group  structure." 

Provision  is  made  in  the  model  for  the  expulsion  of  a 
student  "who  consistently  fails  to  do  acceptable  work." 

The  school  year  would  be  divided  into  four  eight-week 
terms  for  "flexibility  in  course  offerings,  project-logistics, 
and  scheduling."  The  student  would  carry  "four  units  of 
work"  each  term  (for  example,  three  courses  and  one  proj- 
ect [not  including  how-to-do  courses],  four  courses,  etc.). 
Courses  would  extend  from  one  to  four  terms. 

The  above  academic  program  was  reached  after  seven 
months  of  deliberations  by  the  President's  Planning  Group 
during  the  last  school  year.  During  that  time  they  studied 
Tech's  present  status,  developed  a  set  of  possible  objectives, 
and  published  a  set  of  two  reports,  "The  Future  of  Two 
Towers,"  Parts  1  and  2.  Then,  during  the  summer,  the  fac- 


ulty -  elected  Planning  Committee  created  the  program 
above. 

One  of  the  reasons  why  they  chose  to  try  to  educate  a 
"humane  technologist"  was,  in  the  words  of  the  Report, 
"a  growing  feeling  throughout  the  nation  that  many  science 
and  engineering  educators  have  become  so  concerned  with  a 
narrow  form  of  professionalism  that  they  fail  to  react  ade- 
quately to  disturbing  signs  .  .  .  For  a  decade  we  have  seen  a 
loss  of  interest  in  engineering  on  the  part  of  high  school  stu- 
dents; the  disenchantment  of  students  enrolled  in  engineer- 
ing programs  is  notorious;  and  we  have  heard  much  about 
the  importance  of  relating  science  and  engineering  to  the 
needs  of  the  people."  Another  was  in  the  form  of  a  conclu- 
sion: "the  major  contribution  of  the  independent  college  is 
to  leaven  the  national  educational  scene  with  diversification 
and  a  source  of  innovative  energy  which  lies  beyond  the 
capability  of  the  public  institutions." 

The  failure  of  the  present  structure  was  also  cited  as  a 
reason. 

"Attempts  to  broaden  the  student  by  offering,  and  even 
requiring  courses  in  the  humanities  have  largely  failed  .  .  . 
because  of  the  failure  to  show  the  students  the  relevance  of 
their  work  in  humanities  to  their  professional  careers.  The 
student  finds  his  learning  activities  more  or  less  "locked 
in"  to  a  course  program  and  satisfaction  of  his  curiosity 
hampered  by  a  formidable  set  of  prerequisites.  A  further 
factor  is  .  .  .  isolation  of  the  faculty  from  the  students  as 
people  who  have  a  view  of  life,  who  practice  what  they 
preach,  and  who  themselves  are  continuously  learning  .  .  . 
students  find  campus  life  devoid  of  interest.  Intellectual 
interchange  is  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule."  As  one 
result  of  this,  "the  Committee  had  decided  to  relegate  to  an 
inferior  position  the  argument  that  'our  students  have  limit- 


J.  M.  Boyd 
Mechanical  Engineering 


W.  R.  Crogan,  '46 
Eleclrical  Engineering 


C.  R.  Hevanthal,  Jr. 
English 


12 


THE    JOURNAL 


Ft.  L.  Moruzzi 
Electrical  Engineering 


C.l/V.  Shipman 
Chemical  Engineering 


J. P.  van  Alstyne 
Mathematics 


ed  capability.'  This  argument  appears  to  be  false  and  has  so 
pervaded  the  thinking  of  both  students  and  faculty  that  it 
has  strongly  affected  the  quality  of  W.P.I.'s  present  pro- 
gram." 

The  Committee  then  outlined  what  they  felt  were  essen- 
tial considerations  in  determining  W.P.I.'s  goal: 

1.  "It  is  hopeless  to  attempt  to  provide  the  student  with 
enough  information  and  technique  to  see  him  through  a 
lifetime  of  professional  work.  It  is  far  better  to  develop  the 
student's  learning  capability  so  that  he  can  learn  what  is 
necessary  to  solve  the  problem  at  hand  —  to  meet  the  un- 
familiar situation  competently. 

2.  ".  .  .  society  is  being  well  supplied  with  technologists 
who,  given  time  and  money,  can  eventually  solve  nearly 
any  technological  problem  from  development  of  an  anti- 
polio  vaccine  to  placing  a  man  on  the  moon  safely.  How- 
ever, decisions  as  to  what  technology  shall  be  developed 
and  what  problems  attacked  are  made  by  the  lawyer,  the 
sociologist,  and  the  politician  who  are,  for  the  most  part, 
unaware  of  the  nature  of  technology  itself. 

3.  "The  strongest  motivating  factor  in  student  learning 
is  the  student's  own  interest  .  .  . 

4.  "The  essence  of  the  college  experience  is  the  environ- 
ment —  the  nature  of  the  community.  There  is  no  stronger 
motivation  for  intellectual  development  than  the  inspiration 
of  one's  associates.  Delight  in  learning  is  infectious  .  .  .  there 
is  not  now  a  single  college  -  level  program  which  has  ade- 
quately come  to  grips  with  the  challenge  of  developing  and 
encouraging  the  necessary  human  understanding  in  its 
science  and  engineering  students." 

Professor  Shipman  outlined  four  criteria  that  he  felt  a 
program  would  have  to  fulfill,  and  that  he  felt  the  model 
did  fulfill:  1)  Students  would  be  involved  and  responsible; 
2)  There  would  be  a  community  of  spirit;  3)  It  would  have 
to   be   innovative   enough   to   justify   a  private  existence; 


4)  It  would  have  to  be  flexible. 

The  report  declared  that,  under  this  model,  the  follow- 
ing objectives  of  the  original  twelve  listed  in  the  first  and 
second  reports  could  be  executed: 

1.  High  Quality  Pre-Graduate  Education  in  Engineering 
and  Science 

2.  Education  for  Leadership  and  Decision-Making  in  a 
Technological  Society 

3.  Classical  Education  in  Engineering  and  Science  in  the 
Oxford  -  Cambridge  Manner 

5.  Middle  College 

7.  Educating  the  Underprivileged 

8.  Invention  and  Entrepreneurship 

Objective  4  (Research-Oriented  Graduate  Center)  was 
excluded  because  it  was  not  felt  to  be  attainable  at  this 
time  and  that  there  would  be  too  much  competition  from 
such  schools  as  M.I.T.  The  Committee  rejected  Objective  9 
(General  University)  because  they  felt  student  support  for 
this  was  mainly  due  to  a  desire  to  facilitate  shifting  to  a  dif- 
ferent major  field.  The  faculty  Planning  Committee  felt 
that  combining  with  Clark  as  a  way  of  achieving  a  general 
university  would  not  be  an  answer  because  there  was  no 
assurance  that  the  simple  act  of  combining  would  solve 
Tech's  problems,  there  was  a  problem  with  the  distance  be- 
tween the  two  schools,  and  that  colleges  which  had 
combined  had  had  problems  combining  departments. 
Objective  6  (Bachelor  of  Science  Degree  in  Technology) 
was  excluded  because  no  one  seemed  to  want  Tech  to 
become  that  type  of  a  school. 

According  to  Professor  Shipman,  this  proposed  program 
is  unique.  He  did  say  that  there  were  "precedents  for  any 
part  of  it,"  mentioning  that  one  public  high  school  in  New 
York  City  had  gone  to  an  unstructured  curriculum,  but 
added  that  no  program  in  any  technical  school  has  this 
orientation  towards  the  "humane  technologist." 


THE   JOURNAL 


13 


Admissions: 


An  Important  Role 


Donald  F.  Berth  '57 

Don  received  his  BS  and  MS  degrees  in  Chemical 
Engineering  from  W.P.I,  in  1957  and  1959  respectively. 
Since  graduation  he  has  been  at  Cornell  University  for  a 
majority  of  the  time,  holding  positions  as  Assistant  to  the 
Dean  of  Admissions,  Director  of  Admissions  in  the  College 
of  Engineering,  and  Administrative  Assistant  in  the  College 
of  Engineering.  At  present  Don  is  Director  of  College 
Relations,  College  of  Engineering,  at  Cornell  and  he  is  also 
National  Chairman  of  the  Alumni  Admissions  Program  for 
Tech. 


Kenneth  Nourse 

Ken  is  presently  Associate  Dean  of  Student  Affairs  and 
Director  of  Admissions  at  Tech.  He  received  his  Bachelors 
Degree  from  Middlebury  in  1952  and  became  Assistant 
Director  of  Admissions  at  Clarkson  College  of  Technology 
in  1953.  In  1957  he  moved  to  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology  as  Director  of  Admissions,  but  he  returned  to 
Clarkson  one  year  later  as  Director  of  Admissions.  He  held 
that  position  until  1965  when  he  joined  the  staff  of  W.P.I, 
as  Associate  Dean  of  Student  Affairs  and  Director  of 
Admissions. 


14 


THE    JOURNAL 


PART  I: 


A  VIEW  FROM   WITHIN 

by 
KENNETH   NOURSE 


"DO  YOUR  THING  '73"  ...  so  reads  the  pin  handed  to 
each  member  of  the  freshman  class  during  registration. 
Whether  or  not  they  do  will  in  no  way  remove  the  class 
from  its  position  of  being  the  largest  freshman  class  in  the 
history  of  the  college.  On  September  8  we  registered  637  of 
them.  We  were  looking  for  500.  We  had  an  overrun.  In 
September  1968  we  were  looking  for  450  freshmen  and 
came  in  with  360.  We  were  shy  by  90.  In  one  year,  we  in- 
creased freshman  enrollment  by  a  whopping  80%.  Why? 

The  summer  of  1968  was  particularly  long  and  particu- 
larly hot  for  Admissions.  It  was  agreed  that  a  repeat  of  the 
low  frosh  enrollment  of  1968  would  be  unacceptable  ...  a 
euphemism  for  disastrous.  An  Admissions  game  plan  was 
developed  in  outline  form  identifying  five  general  areas  and 
encompassing  27  specific  approaches.  The  plan  was  re- 
viewed with  the  Trustees  at  the  Worcester  Club  in  October 
1968.  It  was  suggested  that  if  the  plan  worked  in  its  en- 
tirety we  might  have  an  overrun.  Trustee  Fran  Harvey  com- 
mented that  such  a  problem  would  be  welcome. 

It  is  difficult  to  single  out  particulars  because  we  were 
operating  with  so  many  variables.  However,  I  can  mention 
some  educated  guesses  that  will  probably  stand  up.  Our 
financial  aid  allotment  was  increased  substantially.  This  was 
extremely  important  because  it  helped  us  regain  a  competi- 
tive position.  We  were  able  to  make  it  possible  for  more  of 
the  better  students  to  come.  We  were  slipping  badly  in  this 
area.  The  tuition  shows  a  recent  history  of  increasing  on  al- 
ternate years,  but  the  financial  aid  allotment  remained  stat- 
ic. Hence,  we  were  regressing.  We  now  have  an  understand- 
ing that  financial  aid  is  a  critical  factor  in  the  admissions  ac- 
tivity and  hope  we  shall  be  able  to  maintain  our  regained 
momentum. 

The  Early  Decision  program  was  given  special  attention 
and  the  number  accepted  under  this  plan  more  than 
doubled  from  a  year  ago . . .  139  as  opposed  to  60.  Financial 
aid  was  offered  to  this  group  in  sizeable  amounts  for  the  first 
time.  Highly  qualified  candidates  with  or  without  need  who 
indicated  that  W.P.I  was  a  strong  first  choice  were  "in  the 
fold"  as  early  as  December  15. 

The  number  of  "risk"  students  was  doubled  to  30.  This 
is  a  faculty-approved  program  to  admit  X  number  of  can- 
didates who  appear  to  be  statistically  unacceptable  but 
who,  through  a  particular  achievement  or  for  one  of  a 
number  of  subjective  reasons,  seem  desirable.  Data  on  this 
group  in  the  Classes  of  '71  and  '72  indicates  that  60+%  are 


working  successfully  toward  a  degree.  In  the  Class  of  '71 
(based  on  four  semesters)  the  C.OP.A's  range  from  1.46  to 
2.99.  In  the  Class  of  '72  (based  on  two  semesters)  the 
CQP.A's  range  from  1.75  to  3.44.  This  is  a  most  interest- 
ing Admissions  approach  because  it  tends  to  prove  that  we 
should  not  overrate  such  things  as  College  Board  scores  and 
counselor  recommendations.  All  these  students  were  en- 
couraged to  participate  in  a  new  five-week  summer  program 
(we  called  it  Pre-College  Study)  of  compensatory  work  in 
the  verbal  and  math  areas.  The  remaining  members  of  the 
class  were  invited,  but  not  encouraged,  to  participate. 
Twenty  students  were  ultimately  involved.  Their  experience 
will  be  carefully  measured  as  they  progress  through  the 
freshman  year.  As  soon  as  meaningful  data  has  been  as- 
sembled, perhaps  a  report  will  be  presented. 

Our  new  degree  programs  and  increased  flexibility  in  the 
freshman  curriculum  have  given  us  broader  appeal.  Many 
candidates  who  feel  that  a  science-oriented  education  is 
timely  and  relevant  are  unable  to  pick  specific  programs  of 
study  so  early  in  their  educational  careers.  Our  general  to 
specific  approach  is  very  saleable  and  very  sensible.  The 
current  flexibility  available  within  the  general  boundaries  of 
scientific  orientation  seems  to  be  very  appealing.  Parents 
paying  a  tuition  of  2,400  American  dollars  per  year  are 
pleased  that  there  is  lateral  movement  available.  Guidance 
counselors,  long  used  to  the  vicissitudes  of  teenage  think- 
ing, nod  their  heads  in  agreement  when  we  explain  our  flex- 
ibility. But,  most  important,  the  bright,  sensitive,  articulate 
student  seems  to  be  appearing  in  Boynton  Hall  for  a  person- 
al interview  in  greater  numbers.  If  we  can  land  some,  and 
we  shall,  the  faculty  will  find  it  timely  to  improve  our 
climate  for  learning. 

There  is  reason  to  believe  that  our  required  personal  in- 
terview brought  many  more  prospective  students  to  the 
campus  than  a  year  ago.  It  may  sound  like  schmaltz,  but 
this  campus  does  a  pretty  fair  job  of  selling  itself.  In  com- 
parative terms,  the  place  is  immaculate.  The  maintenance 
people  do  an  outstanding  job  and  it  is  noticed  by  visitors. 
There  is  definitely  a  warm  and  friendly  atmosphere 
throughout  and  in  spite  of  our  new  age  of  liberalism  it  is 
obviously  impressive.  To  give  you  some  perspective,  I 
quote  statistics  relative  to  campus  interview  traffic.  The 
personal  interview  was  not  required  for  the  Class  of  1972. 
Between  May  1967  and  May  1968  we  conducted  994  camp- 
us interviews.  We  then  required  a  personal  interview  for  the 
Class  of  1973.  From  May  1968  to  May  1969  we  conducted 
1,378  campus  interviews  ...  a  45%  increase.  We  believe  the 
interview  serves  three  positive  purposes: 

1.  it  brings  the  candidate  to  the  campus 

2.  it  gives  us  a  chance  to  explain  our  position  in  detail 

3.  it  serves  as  a  quasi-declaration  of  intent  on  the  part  of 
the  candidate. 

I  do  not  mean  to  infer  that  all  was  peaches  and  cream, 
but  I  more  than  infer  that  differences  were  resolved  with- 


THE  JOURNAL 


15 


out  violence  or  without  any  interruption  of  the  educational 
process.  It  is  my  observation  that  whoever  is  paying  the 
tuition  of  2,400  American  dollars  per  year  is  pleased  about 
that,  too. 

I  am  certain  that  there  are  other  factors,  but  I  cite  these 
as  major.  As  we  set  our  sights  on  the  Class  of  1974  which 
will  number  about  550,  we  have  already  introduced  a  new 
variable  in  the  form  of  a  re-organized  Alumni-Admissions 
Counselor  program.  It  is  intended  to  affect  the  quality  and 
not  the  quantity  of  the  Class  of  1974.  On  paper,  Bill  Elliott 
and  Don  Berth  have  constructed  a  well-oiled  piece  of  mach- 
inery. A  year  from  now  perhaps  we  shall  be  given  the  op- 
portunity to  report  on  its  progress  or  lack  of  it. 

Looking  to  the  future  we  hope  to  continue  working 
closely  with  the  Faculty  Committee  on  Disadvantaged  Stu- 
dents chaired  by  Prof.  Bourgault  and  the  Ad  Hoc  Commit- 
tee on  Admissions  chaired  by  Prof,  van  Alstyne.  Both  com- 
mittees are  proving  to  be  very  desirable  reaction  groups  to 
ideas  conceived  in  the  Admissions  Office. 


PART  II: 

ALUMNI    INVOLVEMENT 

by 

DONALD   F.  BERTH/59 

W.P.I,  alumni  may  often  feel  that  the  only  support  they 
can  give  their  alma  mater  is  through  their  checkbooks.  But 
another,  equally  significant  kind  of  support  may  be  provi- 
ded by  participation  in  one  of  the  most  critical  activities  of 
the  Institute  —  the  recruitment  of  quality  students.  To  this 
end  an  alumni  secondary  school  organization  has  been  es- 
tablished. Its  regional  chairmen  will  hopefully  serve  as 
spark  plugs;  they  will  be  responsible  for  organizing  and  sus- 
taining an  effective  working  committee  of  alumni.  In  the 
following  paragraphs  I  shall  try  to  outline  the  need  for  and 
the  nature  of  alumni  support  in  this  most  vital  effort. 

W.P.I,  is  essentially  a  specialist  college,  emphasizing  un- 
dergraduate programs  in  the  physical  sciences,  mathema- 
tics, and  the  major  fields  of  engineering.  In  the  past  fifteen 
years  there  has  been  little  or  no  increase  in  national  student 
populations  enrolled  in  these  subject  areas.  Consequently, 
since  college  populations  have  more  than  doubled  in  this 
period,  the  proportion  of  students  in  these  areas  has  been 
halved.  At  the  same  time,  the  number  of  undergraduate 
colleges  offering  work  in  the  subject  areas  which  Tech  of- 
fers has  increased  by  25  percent. 

These  facts  spell  a  number  of  consequences.  First,  it  is 
harder  to  find  a  high  school  student  who  is  interested  in  sci- 
ence or  engineering  than  it  was  fifteen  years  ago.  Second,  it 
is  harder  to  sell  him  on  a  private  college  in  view  of  much 
improved  state  university  programs  in  these  areas.  Third,  he 


is  likely  to  cost  more  in  financial  aid  than  he  did  fifteen 
years  ago. 

W.P.I,  has  an  outstanding  admissions  staff  and  a  quality 
education.  But,  as  many  Tech  men  who  have  spent  years  in 
informal  secondary  school  recruitment  efforts  can  attest,  it 
is  still  the  localized,  personal  interest  that  an  alumnus  can 
give  to  a  particular  student  that  counts  in  the  long  run  — 
catalogs,  campus  visits,  and  admissions  officers  interviews 
notwithstanding. 

For  the  past  seven  years  some  of  my  professional  atten- 
tion has  been  directed  to  student  recruitment  for  Cornell's 
College  of  Engineering.  And  one  lesson  is  clear.  The  best 
schools  owe  much  to  the  devotion  and  skill  of  alumni  who 
seek  and  then  sell  the  best  prospects  on  the  virtues  of  their 
alma  mater  and  its  programs.  While  the  size  of  the  alumni 
body,  its  geographical  diversity,  and  a  widespread  public 
knowledge  of  a  college  all  help  its  recruitment  efforts,  time 
and  again  I  have  witnessed  the  loss  of  valuable  recruits  be- 
cause alumni  were  not  "working"  their  areas  as  hard  as  oth- 
er colleges  were.  On  other  occasions  I  have  seen  colleges 
win  applicants  because  of  efforts  by  enthusiastic,  know- 
ledgeable, honest,  and  skillful  alumni. 

The  competition  among  alumni  groups  in  the  field  is 
keen.  And  because  of  the  increased  organizational  sophisti- 
cation of  many  of  these  groups,  it  is  essential  that  W.P. I.'s 
alumni  get  busy  to  gain  for  Tech  its  share  of  the  best  talent. 

The  alumnus  whose  participation  as  a  committeeman  is 
desired  is  the  one  who  wants  to  lend  a  hand  but  is  not  sure 
of  the  best  way  to  do  it.  Many  have  recognized  the  impor- 
tance of  student  recruitment  and,  with  little  guidance  or 
support,  have  already  become  involved  in  sponsoring  din- 
ners for  area  guidance  counselors  and  helping  in  the  inter- 
viewing of  Tech  applicants. 

We  need  more  men  who  are  enthusiastic  about  W.P.I, 
and  W.P.I,  today.  Not  the  college  that  they  graduated  from 
in  1934,  1948,  or  1957,  but  W.P.I,  today.  This  does  not 
mean  that  recent  graduates  will  be  best  as  committee  mem- 
bers, but  that  homework  will  be  required.  The  alumni  sec- 
ondary school  organizational  framework  will  provide  re- 
gional workshops  for  alumni  at  least  once  a  year. 

We  need  men  who  are  genuinely  interested  in  young 
people  (both  men  and  women)  and  who  would  like  to  be  of 
service  to  those  who  might  profit  from  their  college  ex- 
periences. And  we  need  men  who  can  seek  out  prospective 
Tech  students,  not  perfunctorily,  but  imaginatively,  in  such 
a  way  that  admissions  representatives  will  find  audiences 
acquainted  with  W.P.I,  when  they  visit  secondary  schools. 

Alumni  in  the  field  can  be  instrumental  in  multiplying 
efforts  in  student  recruitment  by  several  orders  of  magni- 
tude. The  general  regard  for  W.P.I,  alumni  by  secondary 
school  personnel  is  of  obvious  value.  By  becoming  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  teaching  and  counseling  staffs  -  particu- 
larly with  the  math  and  science  teachers  and  college  coun- 
selors -  of  a  particular  school,  an  alumnus  can  make  his 


16 


THE    JOURNAL 


name  and  presence  synonymous  with  W.P.I.  He  can  seek 
out  superior  secondary  school  prospects  and  encourage 
them  to  consider  W.P.I,  if  their  educational  interests  can  be 
served  through  one  of  the  Institute's  programs.  In  addition, 
he  can  assist  the  W.P.I.  Office  of  Admissions  in  the  inter- 
viewing process  by  exploring  and  assessing  the  non-intellec- 
tual qualities  of  a  candidate.  He  can  sell  W.P.I,  to  accepted 
candidates  by  personal  follow-up  and  get-acquainted  pro- 
grams where  numbers  warrant. 

Alumni  have  an  important  stake  in  the  well  being  of 
their  alma  mater.  If  we  do  not  see  to  it  that  more  and  more 
of  the  very  best  young  minds  and  young  leaders  go  to 
W.P.I.,  who  will?  And  who  will  insure  the  value  of  our  own 
degrees? 

I  hope  that  when  you  may  be  contacted  by  your  area's 
regional  chairman,  you  will  be  ready  to  say  yes  to  his  call 
for  help. 


ORGANIZATIONAL  PLAN  OF  ACTION 
Alumni  Secondary  School  Organization 

The  first  priority  of  the  Alumni  Secondary  School  Or- 
ganization is  to  develop  a  quality  organization  that  is  pre- 
pared to  do  some  work.  Casual  and  ill-planned  efforts  yield 
complementary  results.  At  the  outset,  the  organization's  ef- 
forts will  be  in  areas  where  W.P.I,  is  known  and  where 
alumni  live  in  some  concentration.  In  some  instances  these 
regions  will  approximate  chapter  boundaries;  in  others  they 
will  transcend  these  boundaries.  In  no  organizational  way 
are  the  efforts  of  the  secondary  school  organization  tied  to 
those  of  the  chapters. 

Executive  Secretary:  William  Elliott,  '66,  Assistant 
Director  of  Admissions 

The  executive  secretary  is  the  contact  man  at  W.P.I,  for 
planning,  staffing,  and  coordinating  all  "field  efforts."  He 
will: 

1.  plan  the  annual  workshops  for  regional  chairmen  and 
plan  and  schedule  workshops  for  regional  committee- 
men to  coincide  with  admissions  staff  visits. 

2.  have  necessary  materials  (brochures,  posters,  flyers, 
etc.)  prepared  as  required  to  maximize  recruitment 
effectiveness. 

3.  in  essence,  represent  W.P.I,  in  all  planning  and  co- 
ordination of  alumni  efforts  and  provide  the  on- 
campus  continuity  required  to  sustain  this  volunteer, 
part-time  effort. 

Regional  Chairmen: 

Their  responsibilities  include: 

1.  seeking  W.P.I,  alumni  as  committeemen. 

2.  planning  regional  workshops  (assisted  by  W.P.I,  ad- 
missions personnel). 


3.  planning  at  least  one  luncheon  or  dinner  meeting  for 
guidance  and/or  teaching  staffs  in  specific  areas  of 
their  region  annually. 

4.  scheduling  at  least  one  major  student  recruitment 
meeting  in  each  area  of  their  region  each  year  (co- 
ordinating and  complementing  ongoing  programs  of 
the  chapters,  the  Society  of  Families,  and  the  admis- 
sions office). 


Regional 
Chairmen 


to  be  announced 
Charles  Frary,  '34 

Henry  Nowick,  '56 


Regions 

Boston  and  North  Shore 
Boston  West  Suburbs  and 

South  Shore 
Connecticut  Valley 

(Hartford  and  Springfield) 
Rhode  Island  Robert  Dunklee,  '40 

Northern  New  Jersey  Edward  Peterson,  '43 

Southern  Connecticut  Charles  Walters  '55 

(Bridgeport,  New  Haven,  Stamford) 
Long  Island  James  Adams,  '49 

Mid- Atlantic  (Baltimore  Walter  Bank,  '46 

Washington,  D.C.) 
Delaware  Valley  (Philadelphia,  Thomas  Flynn,  '30 

Wilmington) 
Capital  District  (Albany,  Robert  Fulmer,  Jr.,  '51 

Schenectady,  Troy) 
Mid-West  (Chicago,  Milwaukee)  Leon  Bassett,  '51 

Western  Pennsylvania  Ken  Parker,  '61 

Eastern  Ohio  David  Pratt,  '56 

Upstate  New  York  (Buffalo,  Don  Girard,  '46 

Rochester,  Syracuse) 
Michigan  Edmund  Judd, '50 

New  York  City  and  to  be  announced 

Westchester  County 


Concerned  alumni  will  provide  the  "grass  roots"  contact 
for  W.P.I,  which  will  determine  whether  this  secondary 
school  student  recruitment  effort  is  a  success  or  failure. 
The  committeemen  in  each  region  (the  number  will  vary 
depending  on  alumni  concentration  and  secondary  schools 
to  be  serviced)  should  become  thoroughly  familiar  with  the 
secondary  schools  in  their  area.  About  the  one  or  two  for 
which  they  will  be  responsible,  they  should  know  the 
teachers,  counselors,  and  the  outstanding  juniors  each  year. 
The  presence  of  each  of  these  committeemen  in  a  second- 
ary school  should  be  synonymous  with  the  presence  of 
W.P.I. 

Won't  you  beat  your  regional  chairman  to  the  punch  by 
writing  to  him  (care  of  Bill  Elliott,  Admissions  Office, 
W.P.I.)  and  telling  him  you  can  be  counted  on  for  sup- 
port? 


THE  JOURNAL 


17 


ANNUAL  ALUMNI  FUND  REPORT  -  1968-69 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  1968-69  Annual  Alumni  Fund.  Although  the  percentage  of  alumni  participating  was  low  — 
only  34%  of  our  alumni  contributed  —  a  new  record  for  individual  gifts  was  set  with  a  total  of  $1 19,822  being  contributed.  In 
addition  $14,547  was  contributed  by  companies  with  matching  gift  programs,  $132,124  was  contributed  to  the  college  as 
unrestricted  gifts,  and  $245,753  was  contributed  as  alumni  bequests.  Thus  the  total  of  all  alumni  giving  to  Worcester  Tech  for 
the  period  1 968-69  was  $51 2,246. 


MEMBERS   OF   CLUBS 


THE  PRESIDENT'S  CLUB 

Earl  C.  Hughes,  '14;  Frederick  R.  Butler,  '20;  William  E.  Hanson, 
'32;  Arthur  E.  Smith,  '33;  James  J.  Clerkin,  '45. 

THE  DEAN'S  CLUB 

E.  Donald  Beach,  '11;  Arthur  B.  Schofield,  '13;  Ralph  M.  Johnson, 
'15;  George  W.  Smith,  Jr.,  '15;  Moses  H.  Teaze,  '17;  Weston  Hadden, 
'22;  Wayne  E.  Keith,  '22;  J.  Kendall  Fullerton,  '29;  Arthur  W. 
Knight,  '29;  Carl  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38;  George  W.  Knauff,  '41;  Irving  James 
Donahue,  Jr.,  '44;  Robert  C.  Wolff,  '51. 

THE  JOHN  BOYNTON  CLUB 

Frank  S.  Nutting,  '00;  James  J.  Shea,  '12;  Edmund  K.  Brown,  '13; 
Frank  G.  Gifford,  '16;  E.  Leland  Durkee,  '19;  George  R.  Rich, '19; 
Helge  S.  Johnson,  '24;  Luther  B.  Martin,  '25;  Milton  E.  Berglund, 
'26;  Dwight  E.  Jones,  '28;  Russell  C.  Wiley,  '29;  Aram  Kalenian,  '33; 
Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35;  Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.,  '35; 
Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  Robert  M.  Taft,  '38;  Robert  A.  Muir, 
'41;  Leonard  H.  White,  '41. 

THE  CENTURY  CLUB 

William  A.  Jordan,  '02;  Alfred  E.  Rankin,  '04;  Edwin  M.  Roberts, 
'04;  Harold  B.  Larned,  '05;  James  E.  Smith,  '06;  Percy  M.  Hall,  '07; 
Fritz  A.  Hedberg,  '07;  Arthur  J.  Knight,  '07;  Percy  C.  Smith,  '07; 
George  A.  Barratt,  '09;  Oliver  B.  Jacobs,  '10;  Daniel  H.  Reamy,  '10; 
Edmund  M.  Flaherty,  '11;  G.  Allan  King, '11;  Earl  W.  Gleason, '12; 
Fred  G.  Munson,  '12;  Wilfred  L.  Peel,  '12;  Frederick  S.  Carpenter, 
'13;  George  C.  Graham,  '13;  David  G.  Howard,  '13;  Harry  B. 
Lindsay,  '13;  J.  Arthur  Planteroth,  '13;  Leon  H.  Rice,  '13;  Donald 
M.  Russell,  '13;  Roland  H.  Dufault,  '14;  Carl  F.  Fritch,  '14; 
George  Ross,  '14;  Henry  C.  Whitlock,  '14;  Frederick  P.  Church,  '15; 
G.  Noble  Davidson,  '15;  Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart,  '15;  Everett 
Hutchins,  '15;  Raymond  P.  Lansing,  '15;  Edwin  T.  Warren,  '15 
Coburn  L.  Berry,  '16;  Carl  H.  Burgess,  '16;  Leslie  J.  Chaffee,  '16 
Roland  D.  Home,  '16;  Harold  W.  Howarth,  '16;  Arthur  Nutt,  '16 
Selden  T.  Williams,  '16;  Aurelio  E.  Zambarano,  '16;  Ronald  E 
Greene,  '17;  Herman  Hollerith,  Jr.,  '17;  Andrew  B.  Holmstrom,  '17 
John  M.  Leggett,  '17;  Philip  C.  Pray,  '17;  Russell  H.  Smith,  '17 
John  R.  Wheeler,  '17;  Levi  E.  Wheeler,  '17;  Edmond  E.  Moore, '18 
Oakley  C.  Walker,  '18;  Howard  S.  Foster,  '19;  Thomas  B 
Rutherford,  '19;  Paul  M.  Abbott.  '20;  Arvid  E.  Anderson,  '20 
C.  Harold  Berg,  '20;  Herbert  E.  Brooks.  '20;  Milton  W.  Garland,  '20 


Raymond  B.  Heath,  '20;  Burton  W.  Marsh,  '20;  Carlton  J.  O'Neil, 
'20;  Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr.,  '20;  George  L.  White,  '20;  Frank  K. 
Brown,  '21;  Philip  K.  Davis,  '21;  Cyril  Israel,  '21;  William  L. 
Martin,  '21;  Lyle  J.  Morse,  '21;  Paul  S.  Sessions,  '21;  Lincoln 
Thompson,  '21;  Harold  B.  Whitmore,  '21;  Charles  I.  Babcock,  '22; 
Lawrence  K.  Hyde,  '22;  Lloyd  F.  McGlincy,  '22;  John  V.  Russell, 
'22;  Edwin  L.  Sholz,  '22;  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  '23;  Wallace  C. 
Hathaway,  '23;  Percival  E.  Meyer,  '23;  Richard  Walberg,  '23; 
Edward  G.  Beardsley,  '24;  Thomas  L.  Counihan,  '24;  Roger  A. 
Fuller,  '24;  Alfred  K.  Morgan,  '24;  John  N.  Styffe,  '24;  Donald  B. 
Wilson,  '24;  David  C.  Bailey,  '25;  Charles  H.  Bidwell,  '25; 
Raymond  L.  Copson,  '25;  Henry  L.  Mellen,  '25;  L.  Ivan  Under- 
wood, '25;  Richard  S.  Boutelle,  '26;  Philip  R.  Delphos,  '26; 
Charles  N.  Healey,  Jr.,  '26;  Chandler  W.  Jones,  '26;  Howard  G. 
Lasselle,  '26;  Donald  F.  Sears,  '26;  Victor  E.  Hill,  '27;  Nelson  E. 
Parmelee,  '27;  Carleton  R.  Sanford,  '27;  Ralph  V.  Karlson,  '28; 
Frederick  H.  Knight,  '28;  A.  Everett  Lawrence,  '28;  William  A. 
Manty,  '28;  Alexander  L.  Naylor,  '28;  Frederick  G.  Sandstrom,  '28; 
Lothar  A.  Sontag,  '29;  C.  Eugene  Center,  '30;  Charles  H.  Cole,  '30; 
John  W.  Conley,  '30;  Clifford  B.  Ives,  '30;  Paul  B.  Morgan,  Jr.,  '30; 
Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  Fred  P.  Peters,  '30;  M.  Lawrence  Price,  '30; 
Warren  C.  Whittum,  '30;  Albert  M.  Demont,  '31;  Oliver  B.  Merrill, 
'31;  Eben  H.  Rice,  '31;  Trueman  L.  Sanderson,  '31;  Herbert  A. 
Stewart,  '31 ;  Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr.,  '31 ;  Robert  S.  Williamson,  '31 ; 
William  W.  Asp,  '32;  Clement  R.  Barlow,  '32;  Dana  B.  Carleton,  '32; 
Donald  J.  McGee,  '32;  Henry  B.  Pratt,  Jr.,  '32;  William  F.  Reardon, 
'32;  Leon  D.  Skuropat,  '32;  Sidney  Thune,  '32;  Waldo  E.  Bass,  '33; 
Robert  E.  Ferguson,  '33;  Harry  T.  Jensen,  '33;  Edwin  L.  Johnson, 
'33;  John  A.  Birch,  '34;  Warren  H.  Davenport,  '34;  Dwight  J. 
Dwinell,  '34;  Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr.,  '34;  Luther  C.  Leavitt,  '34; 
Charles  W.  McElroy,  '34;  Howard  E.  Stockwell,  '34;  Edward  J. 
Abendschein,  '35;  Raymond  J.  Quenneville,  '35;  M.  Kent  Smith, 
'35;  William  R.  Steur,  '35;  Plummer  Wiley,  '35;  Carleton  W.  Borden, 
'36;  Harold  F.  Henrickson,  '36;  John  J.  O'Donnell,  '36;  Stedman  W. 
Smith,  '36;  Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36;  Robert  C.  Wright,  '36; 
Erving  Arundale,  '37;  Philip  G.  Atwood.  '37;  Martin  G.  Caine,  '37; 
Gordon  F.  Crowther,  '37;  Morton  S.  Fine,  '37;  Charles  R.  Michel, 
'37;  Richard  J.  Donovan,  '38;  Richard  M.  Elliott,  '38;  Thomas  B. 
Graham,  '38;  Raymond  J.  Perreault,  '38;  Walter  L.  Abel,  '39; 
Jack  F.  Boyd,  '39;  Wilder  R.  Carson,  '39;  William  L.  Kay,  '39; 
Robert  W.  Martin,  '39;  George  E.  Monchamp,  Jr.,  '39.  Billie  A. 
Schmidt,  '39;  Frans  E.  Strandberg,  '39;  Fred  N.  Webster,  '39, 
Donald  R.  Bates,  '40;  William  S.  Brooks,  '40;  Malcolm  S.  Burton, 
'40;  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40;  Howard  G.  Freeman,  '40;  Joseph  M. 


18 


THE   JOURNAL 


Halloran,  Jr.,  '40;  Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr.,  '40;  Lawrence  C.  Neale,  '40 

S.  Merrill  Skeist,  '40;  Stanley  M.  Terry,  '40;  Donald  T.  Atkinson 

'41;  George  A.  Cowan,  '41;  Joseph  P.  Jurga,  '41;  Donald  F.  Palmer 

Jr.,    '41;    William    C.    Richardson,    '41;    Roy    F.    Bourgault,   '42 

Philip  J.  Hastings,  '42;  Howard  C.  Warren,  '42;  Raymond  Wynkoop 

'42;  Clifton   B.   Kinne,  '43;  Herbert  Asher,  '44;  George  W.  Collins 

'44;   Nicholas   N.    Economou,  '44;  Harrison   E.   Holbrook,  Jr.,  '44 

David  M.  Field,  '44;  Fred  S.  Moulton,  '44;  Joseph  D.  Carrabino,  '45 

Robert  M.  Edgerly,  '45;  Anson  C.   Fyler,  '45;  Howard  D.  Gerring 

'45;  Philip  A.  Henning,  '45;  William  C.  Howard,  Jr.,  '45;  Robert  E 

Scott,  '45;  George   E.  Comstock,  '46;  Edward  A.  Pendleton,  '46 

Peter   B.  Myers,  '46B;  Allan  Glazer,  '47;  Albert  S.  Goldberg,  '48 

Clark  L.  Poland,  '48;  Peter  J.  Dalton,  Jr.,  '49;  James  M.  Genser,  '49 

Edward  A.  Luiz,  '49;  Alfred  Strogoff,  '49;  Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr.,  '49 

John    H.    Williams,    '49;    Arthur    O.    Bouvier,    Jr.,    '50;    John    P 

Burgarella,    '50;    Robert    F.  Stewart,  '50;   Russell  W.   Waldo,  '50 

G.    Albert    Anderson,    '51;    Martin    G.    Bromberg,    '51;    Robert   N 

Cochran,  '51;  Frank  A.  MacPherson,  '51;  John  Marley,  '51;  Owen 

Ott,    '51;    John    M.    Tracy,    '52;    Orren    B.    McKnight,    Jr.,    '53 

Anthony    J.    Ruksnaitis,    '53;    Richard    D.    Kirk,    '54;    Douglas    B 

MacLaren,  '54;  Harry   L.   Mirick,  Jr.,  '54;  Walter  A.    Reibling,  '54 

Edwin  Shivell,  Jr.,  '54;  Robert  L.  Chang,  '55;  Louis  Gaumond,  '55 

Harold  S.  Sauer,  '55;  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56;  John  W.  Braley 

Jr.,  '57;  Edward  J.  Moineau,  '57;  Philip  M.  French,  '58;  Roger  A 

Jolicoeur,   '58;    Marian    C.    Knight,   '58;  Peter  J.   Zanini,  Jr.,   '58 

John  L.  Wheeler,  '59;  William  M.  Aitken,  '60;  Dwight  M.  Cornell 

'60;   Benjamin   B.   Morgan,  '60;  Arthur  W.   Kroll,  '61;   Robert   E 

Seamon,  '61;  Nicholas  Cotsidas,  '62;   Keyren   H.  Cotter,  Jr.,  '62 

Joseph    V.    Bucciaglia,    '63;   Arthur   E.    Goddard,   '63;   Robert   H 

Gowdy,   '63;  Maurice   R.   Silvestris,  '64;  Stanley  Szymanski,  '64 

Ronald  G.  Greene,  '65;  Richard  B.  Nelson,  '66;  Peter  G.  Stebbins 

'66;  Edward  J.  Ciarpella,  '67;  Thomas  Y.  Liu,  '67;  Charles  F.  Monnier 

'27. 

THE  BOOSTER  CLUB 

Ellery  B.  Paine,  '97;  George  K.  Howe,  '01;  Sidney  W.  Farnsworth, 
'06;  P.  Alden  Beaman,  '07;  Donald  H.  Mace,  '07;  Leon  W. 
Hitchcock,  '08;  Ralph  D.  Whitmore,  '09;  William  R.  Bell,  '10; 
Millard  F.  Clement,  '10;  Edward  A.  Hanff,  '10;  Frank  M.  McGowan, 
'12;  Leon  H.  Treadwell,  '12;  William  R.  Turner,  '12;  Edward  J. 
Dahill,  '13;  Norris  D.  Pease,  '13;  James  L.  Atsatt,  '14;  Frank 
Forsberg,  '15;  Charles  B.  Hurd,  '15;  Russell  M.  Searle,  '15; 
Maurice  G.  Steele,  '15;  J.  Arthur  Blair,  '16;  Raymond  W.  Burns,  '16; 
Simon  Collier,  '16;  Leonard  M.  Krull,  '16;  Harold  G.  Saunders,  '16; 
Clinton  S.  Darling,  '17;  Arthur  E.  Gorman,  '17;  Warren  W.  Parks, 
'17;  Roger  M.  Lovell,  '18;  Benjamin  Luther,  '18;  Leroy  W.  Vinal, 
'18;  Howard  A.  Mayo,  '19;  Richard  S.  Morse,  '19;  Robert  C. 
Sessions,  '19;  Richard  L.  Olson,  '19;  John  Q.  Holmes,  '20; 
Albert  R.  Rienstra,  '20;  Harry  W.  Tenney,  '20;  Irving  R.  Smith,  '21; 
Francis  W.  Towle,  '21;  Earl  H.  Winslow,  '21;  Charles  N.  Clarkson, 
'22;  William  H.  Cooney,  '22;  Robert  W.  Cushman,  '22;  Richard  D, 
Field,  '22;  Wilfred  H.  Howe,  '22;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Frank  R. 
Mason,  '22;  George  V.  Upton,  Jr.,  '22;  J.  Carleton  Adams,  '23; 
Lincoln  A.  Cundall,  '23;  Kenneth  E.  Hapgood,  '23;  Edward  B.  John- 
son, '23;  Weston  Morrill,  '23;  Howard  S.  Nutting,  '23;  Frederick  H. 
Scheer,  '23;  J.  Norman  Alberti,  '24;  Preston  W.  Hale,  '24;  Leslie  J. 
Hooper,  '24;  Harry  L.  Hurd,  '24;  F.  Paul  Ronca,  '24;  Carroll  C. 
Tucker,  '24;  Stephen  J.  Vouch,  '24;  Carl  F.  Carlstrom,  '25;  O.  Arnold 
Hansen,  '25;  Edwin  Higginbottom,  '25;  Daniel  L.  Hussey,  '25;  Urban 
R.  Lamay,  '25;  Thomas  G.  Wright,  '25;  Harold  A.  Baines,  '26; 
Frederick  D.  Fielder,  '26;  Donald  L.  Hager,  '26;  Eugene  M. 
Hunter,  '26;  John  S.  Miller,  '26;  Stanley  R.  Osborne,  '26;  Harry  C. 
Peinert,  '26;  Mabbott  B.  Steele,  '26;  Charles  J.  Thompson,  '26; 
Irvin  S.  Webster,  '26;  Emerson  A.  Wiggin,  '26;  George  L.  Bush,  '27; 
John  R.  Davis,  '27;  George  J.  Heckman,  '27;  Charles  MacLennan, 
'27;  Dean  L.  Merrill,  '27;  Charles  S.  Moore,  '27;  William  M.  Rauha, 
'27;    Carl    H.    Schwind,    '27;    Donald   S.    Searle,    '27;    Russell    G. 


Whittemore,  '27;  Gabriel  O.  Bedard,  '28;  Harold  G.  Butterworth, 
'28;  W.  Bigelow  Hall,  '28;  Roland  C.  Mather,  '28;  Harland  L.  Page, 
'28;  Karl  W.  Penney,  '28;  Lincoln  H.  Peterson,  '28;  Arthur  T. 
Simmonds,  '28;  Carl  H.  Carlson,  '29;  Nathaniel  Clapp,  '29; 
Stephen  D.  Donahue,  '29;  Robert  M.  Eccles,  '29;  O.  Vincent 
Gustafson,  '29;  Holbrook  L.  Horton,  '29;  Joseph  Matulaitis,  '29; 
Halbert  E.  Pierce,  '29;  Richard  J.  Stone,  '29;  Herbert  W.  Davis,  '30; 
William  H.  Doyle,  '30;  Stanley  H.  Fillion,  '30;  Thomas  F.  Flynn, 
'30;  Carmelo  S.  Greco,  '30;  Lincoln  B.  Hathaway,  '30;  William  W. 
Locke,  '30;  Christos  L.  Orphanides,  '30;  Philip  M.  Seal,  '30; 
F.  Dudley  Chaffee,  '31;  Henry  N.  Deane,  '31;  Albert  M.  Demont, 
'31;  Jay  M.  Harpell,  '31;  Otis  E.  Mace,  '31;  John  A.  Mott,  '31; 
J.  Philip  Pierce,  '31.  Hurant  Tashjian,  '31;  A.  Francis  Townsend, 
'31;  Elliott  D.  Jones,  '32;  Paul  E.  Nelson,  '32;  Olof  W.  Nyquist, 
'32;  Hugo  P.  Borgatti,  '33;  Irving  J.  Gartrell,  '33;  Gilbert  U. 
Gustafson,  '33;  Donald  W.  Haskins,  '33;  Leighton  Jackson,  '33; 
H.  Edward  Perkins,  '33;  Robert  C.  Peterson,  '33;  Frederick  M. 
Potter,  '33;  Franklin  B.  Roberts,  '33;  Jeremiah  H.  Vail,  '33; 
Howard  W.  Atkins,  '34;  J.  Boylston  Campbell,  '34;  Ernest  M. 
Crowell,  '34;  Curtis  A.  Hedler,  '34;  George  Kalista,  '34;  John  H. 
Keenan,  '34;  William  E.  Mesh,  '34;  Everett  F.  Sellew,  '34;  Paul  J. 
Sullivan,  '34;  Gordon  P.  Whitcomb,  '34;  C.  Marshall  Dann,  '35; 
Martin  B.  Graham,  '35;  James  J.  Gushaw,  '35;  C.  Gordon  Lincoln, 
'35;  Frank  H.  Madigan,  '35;  Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  '35;  Andrew  W. 
Palm,  '35;  Charles  S.  Smith,  '35;  Kingston  C.  Smith,  '35;  Leo  T. 
Benoit,  '36;  John  R.  Brand,  '36;  Walter  G.  Dahlstrom,  '36;  C.  James 
Ethier,  '36;  Jacob  A.  Sacks,  '36;  C.  Chapin  Cutler,  '37;  Nathaniel 
I.  Korman,  '37;  Carl  E.  Larson,  Jr.,  '37;  William  Price,  '37;  Robert 
B.     Abbe,    '38;     Robert    P.    Day,    '38;    Allen    R.    Deschere,    '38; 

E.  Morton  Fenner,  '38;  Raymond  K.  Houston,  '38;  Albert  J.  Kullas, 
'38;  Francis  B.  Swenson,  '38;  John  K.  Busada,  '39;  Malcolm  R. 
Chandler,  '39;  Donald  E.  Houser,  '39;  Carl  A.  Keyser,  '39;  Ward  D. 
Messimer,  '39;  Walter  P.  Rodgers,  '39;  Richard  B.  Wilson,  '39; 
Ronald  S.  Brand,  '40;  Arthur  S.  Dinsmore,  '40;  Edward  E.  J.  Hafey, 
'40;  Harding  B.  Jenkins,  '40;  Benjamin  A.  Lambert,  '40;  John  H. 
Peters,  III,  '40;  Raymond  B.  Shlora,  '40;  Carl  W.  Bettcher,  Jr., '41; 

F.  Harold  Holland,  '41;  Norman  G.  Klaucke,  '41;  Frank  R. 
Lindberg,  '41;  Chester  P.  Luke,  '41;  F.  Douglas  McKeown,  '41; 
Hilliard  W.  Paige,  '41;  Russell  W.  Parks,  '41;  Donald  E.  Smith,  '41; 
F.  William  Ziegler,  '41;  Robert  E.  Allen,  '42;  Gerald  J.  Bibeault,  '42; 
Paul  C.  Disario,  Jr.,  '42;  Edward  H.  Jacobs,  '42;  Norman  A.  Kerr, 
'42;  Richard  H.  Kimball,  Jr.,  '42;  Francis  J.  Oneglia,  '42;  Samuel  W. 
Williams,  Jr.,  '42;  Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42;  Elmer  W.  Bennett,  '43; 
Jackson  L.  Durkee,  '43;  Victor  E.  Kohman,  '43;  Earl  G.  Paige,  Jr., 
'43;  James  J.  Pezza,  '43;  Gordon  C.  Anderson,  '44;  Richard  A. 
Carson,  '44;  Erling  Lagerholm,  '44;  Paul  I.  Pressel,  '44;  Richard  W. 
Russell,  '44;  Frank  C.  Baginski,  '45;  Carl  C.  Clark,  '45;  John  T.  E. 
Hegeman,  '45;  Frank  J.  Stefanov,  '45;  James  Bush,  Jr.,  '46; 
Joseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr.,  '46;  Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr.,  '46B;  John 
E.  Runninger,  '46B;  John  Lee,  '46D;  Joseph  P.  Manna,  '46D; 
Wilfred  L.  DeRocher,  Jr.,  '47;  Daniel  W.  Knoll,  '47;  William  J.  Rice, 
'47;  Paul  E.  Evans,  '48;  Neil  I.  Fishman,  '48;  Sameer  S.  Hassan,  '48; 
Richard  K.  Home,  '48;  James  G.  McKernan,  '48;  Joseph  P.  Sheehan, 
'48;  Daniel  H.  Sheingold,  '48;  James  S.  Adams,  '49;  Richard  J. 
Coughlin,  '49;  Franklin  P.  Emerson,  '49;  Malcolm  E.  Ferson,  '49; 
Peter  Kalil,  '49;  Daniel  L.  McQuillan,  '49;  Edward  W.  Randall,  '49; 
Hugh  M.  Robinson,  '49;  Carroll  G.  Smith,  '49;  Stephen  J.  Spencer, 
'49;  Donald  Taylor,  '49;  John  F.  Brierly,  '50;  William  C.  Griggs,  '50; 
R.  Reed  Grimwade,  '50;  Richard  E.  Hathaway,  '50;  Arthur  W. 
Joyce,  Jr.,  '50;  Paul  D.  May,  '50;  Robert  E.  Smith,  '50;  Ashton  B. 
Brown,  '51;  Donald  J.  Corey,  '51;  Rafael  R.  Gabarro,  '51;  Arthur 
H.  Gerald,  Jr.,  '51;  Harvey  L.  Howell,  '51;  Edward  A.  Kacmarcik, 
'51;  Charles  F.  Mulrenan,  '51;  Roger  W.  Swanson,  '51;  Dick  van  den 
Berge,  '51;  Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz,  '52;  George  F.  East,  '52;  Ray  N. 
Fenno,  '52;  Robert  F.  Turek,  '52;  Edgar  L.  Van  Cott,  Jr.,  '52; 
Gordon    C.    Willard,    '52;    Donald    B.    Youngdahl,   '52;   Carlton   C. 


THE  JOURNAL 


19 


Comins,  '53;  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  William  G.  Mears,  '53;  Leo  A. 
Salmen,  '53;  George  E.  Saltus,  '53;  Philip  E.  Simon,  Jr.,  '53;  David 
T.  Van  Covern,  '53;  Michael  S.  Zucker,  '53;  Jaak  Jurison,  '54; 
Abdul  H.  Kazi,  '54;  S.  Paul  London,  '54;  Russell  R.  Lussier,  '54; 
Fabian  Pinkham,  '54;  Gerald  R.  Backlund,  '55;  Roger  F.  Bardwell, 
'55;  Edward  M.  Cahill,  '55;  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  Robert  J. 
Schultz,  '55;  John  L.  Hyde,  '56;  David  A.  Pratt,  '56;  George  P. 
Strom,  '56;  Thomas  O.  Wright,  '56;  Leland  H.  Baker,  Jr.,  '57; 
Donald  F.  Berth,  '57;  Fred  H.  Clark,  Jr.,  '57;  Richard  J.  Ferguson, 
'57;  Alvin  E.  Tanner,  '57;  Spiro  L.  Vrusho,  '57;  Robert  P.  Weis,  '57; 
David  B.  Denniston,  '58;  Michael  M.  Gailbraith,  '58;  Michael  S. 
Gutman,  '58;  Roy  A.  Pearson,  Jr.,  '58;  Harvey  G.  Roberts,  '58; 
Joseph  R.  Russo,  '58;  William  F.  Curran,  '59;  Richard  N.  Gustafson, 
'59;    Roger   W.    Kuenzel,   '59;   Peter   A.    Nelson,   '59;    Richard  S. 


Orehotsky,  '59;  Ronald  F.  Swenson,  '59;  Edwin  D.  Tenney,  '59; 
Mark  H.  Abramowitz,  '60;  Paul  W.  Bayliss,  '60;  Douglas  O.  Farrand, 
'60;  Peter  A.  Lajoie,  '60;  Bruce  E.  Schoppe,  '60;  James  F.  Teixeira, 
'60;  Bruce  G.  Willbrant,  '60;  Bradley  E.  Hosmer,  '61;  Lawrence  L. 
Israel,  '61 ;  John  A.  Matley,  '61 ;  Conrad  F.  Matuzek,  '61 ;  Allan  P. 
Sherman,  '61;  Edward  A.  Sundberg,  Jr.,  '61;  Rimas  A.  Zinas,  '61; 
Lewis  W.  Huntoon,  '62;  Robert  A.  Olson,  '62;  Paul  A.  Sharon,  '62; 
Myron  R.  Waldman,  '62;  Richard  T.  Dann,  '63;  Robert  D.  Jamaitas, 
'63;  W.  Allan  Lilius,  '63;  Stanley  P.  Skola,  '63;  Warren  R.  Standley, 
'63;  Peter  Baker,  '64;  Peter  L.  Domemann,  '64;  William  S.  Ingalls, 
Jr.,  '64;  William  J.  Museler,  '64;  Philip  C.  Nyberg,  '65;  David  M. 
Schwaber,  '65;  Jonathan  H.  Pardee,  '66;  Clinton  A.  Inglee,  '67; 
Mukundray  N.  Patel,  '67;  Robert  P.  Tolokan,  '67;  James  M. 
Wendell,  '68;  Frank  S.  Yazwinski,  '68;  George  T.  Kane,  '68;  Joshua  C. 
Alpern,'60. 


CONTRIBUTORS  TO  THE  1968-69  ANNUAL  ALUMNI   FUND 


Italic  type  is  used  to  commend  those  who  have  contributed 

annually  since  the  beginning  of  the -Alumni  Fund  in  1924, 

or  since  their  graduation.   Italics  are  not  used  for  the  first 

contributions  of  the  Class  of  1968. 

All  who  contributed  to  the  Centennial   Fund  are  credited 

with    contributing    to    the    Annual    Fund    for    1964—65, 

1965-66,  and  1966-67. 

Percentages  listed  refer  to  Alumni  Association  members  only. 

Gifts    by    non-members    are    not   included   in    percentage 

calculations.  Late  contributors  are  recognized  in  this  listing, 

but  their  gifts  have  not  been  shown  in  the  totals. 

Honorary  Alumni 

In  Memoriam,  Harold  J.  Gay,  George  H.  Haynes. 


1889 

In  Memoriam,  Myron  J.  Bigelow. 

1896           3  Members 

1  Contributor 

33% 

Ernest  Mosman. 

1897           2  Members 

1  Contributor 

50% 

Ellery  B.  Paine 

1898           3  Members 

1  Contributor 

33% 

Frank  C.  Harrington 

1900           6  Members 

2  Contributors 

33% 

Frank  S.  Nutting,  Lester  W.  West 

1901  9  Members 


4  Contributors 


44% 


Theo  Brown,  James  W.  Freeman,  George  K.  Howe,  Joseph  W.  Rogers. 

1902  8  Members  3  Contributors  38% 

Winthrop  G.  Hall,  William  A.  Jordan,  DeWitt  C.  Lambson. 

1903  13  Members  5  Contributors  39% 

Arthur  A.  Arnold,  Lewis  E.  Dickinson,  Benjamin  D.  Foot,  Henry  J. 
Potter,  Edward  L.  Stone,  Jr. 


1904 


8  Members 


4  Contributors 


50% 


In  Memoriam  -   1904  Seth   R.  Clark,  Oscar  M.  Howland,  Alfred  E. 
Rankin,  Edwin  M.  Roberts. 

1905  9  Members  3  Contributors  33% 
Roy  A.  Fitch,  Harold  B.  Lamed,  Ernest  C.  Morse. 

1906  14  Members  4  Contributors  29% 

Sidney  W.  Farnsworth,  Franklin  C.  Green,  John  F.  Hubbard,  James 
£  Smith. 


1907 


25  Members 


13  Contributors 


52% 


P.  Alden  Beaman,  Albert  G.  Belden,  L.  Herbert  Carter,  Joseph  F. 
Cullen,  Percy  M.  Hall,  Howard  H.  Haynes,  Fritz  A.  Hedberg,  Arthur 
J.  Knight,  Donald  H.  Mace,  Wilbur  C.  Searle,  Percy  C.  Smith,  Chester 
B.  Starbird,  William  R.  Wood. 


1908 


25  Members 


12  Contributors 


48% 


Arthur  F.  Barnes,  Herbert  M.  Carleton,  Royal  W.  Davenport, 
Sumner  A.  Davis,  Luther  W.  Hawley,  Leon  W.  Hitchcock,  Frank  F. 
Hutchings,  Forrest  G.  Kirsch,  George  H.  Ryan,  Donald  D.  Simonds, 
Louis  H.  Trott,  Ernest  C.  Willard. 


1909 


24  Members 


10  Contributors 


42% 


George  A.  Barratt,  Fred  F.  Chapman,  Charles  F.  Goldthwait, 
Dudley  Harmon,  Frank  E.  Hawkes,  Wilfred  F.  Jones,  Elwin  H. 
Kidder,  Francis  W.  Roys,  Joseph  K.  Schofield,  Ralph  D.  Whitmore. 


1910 


32  Members 


13  Contributors 


41% 


William  R.  Bell,  Ernest  W.  Bishop,  Alfred  N.  Chase,  Millard  F. 
Clement,  Ralph  G.  Gold,  Frank  W.  Green,  Edward  A.  Hanff.  Karl  E. 
Herrick,  Oliver  B.  Jacobs.  Everett  D.  Learned,  Clarence  A.  G.  Pease, 
Daniel  H.  Reamy,  Donald  B.  Wheeler. 


1911 


27  Members 


10  Contributors 


37% 


Charles  A.  Bassett,  E.  Donald  Beach,  David  E.  Carpenter,  Harold  R. 
Frizzell,  Edmund  M.  Flaherty.  Burdett  J.  Halligan,  Martin  H. 
Jachens,    G.    Allan    King,    A.    Hugh    Reid,    Clarence    W.    Taft. 


20 


THE   JOURNAL 


1912  40  Members  18  Contributors 


45% 


Eric  G.  Benedict,  Harrison  G.  Brown,  F.  Bertram  Cleveland,  George 
E.Clifford,  Earl  W.  Gleason,  J.  Francis  Granger,  Frank  M.  McGowan, 
Fred  G.  Munson,  Wilfred  L.  Peel,  Frank  H.  Plaisted,  Eugene  H. 
Powers,  Henry  A.  Rickett,  James  J.  Shea,  Harland  F.  Stuart,  Roger 
P.  Towne,  Leon  H.  Treadwell,  Edward  J.  Tucker,  William  R.  Turner, 
F.  Homan  Waring. 

In  Memoriam,  James  W.  Cunningham,  Herbert  F.  Taylor,  William  R. 
Turner. 


1913 


47  Members 


23  Contributors 


49% 


W.  Harker  Acton,  Clarence  A.  Brock,  Albert  L.  Brown,  Edmund  K. 
Brown,  Arthur  C.  Burleigh,  Frederick  S.  Carpenter,  George  E.  Chick, 
Edward  J.  Dahill,  Sherman  A.  Geer,  George  C.  Graham,  Leon  H. 
Greenwood,  Allen  H.  Gridley,  David  G.  Howard,  Alton  H.  Kingman, 
Harry  8.  Lindsay,  Norris  D.  Pease,  J.  Arthur  Planteroth,  Leon  H. 
Rice,  Donald  M.  Russell,  Arthur  B.  Schofield,  Millard  C.  Spencer, 
William  R.  Stults,  Arthur  W.  Turner. 


1914 


49  Members 


25  Contributors 


51% 


R.  L.  Keith  Memorial  Fund  (Income). 

James  L.  Atsatt,  Edward  C.  Bartlett,  Winthrop  B.  Brown,  Arthur  H. 
Burns,  Horace  L.  Cole,  Albert  S.  Crandon,  Leon  J.  Croteau,  Ray  C. 
Crouch,  John  J.  Desmond,  Roland  H.  Dufault,  Carl  F.  Fritch, 
A.  Frederick  Griffin,  Franklin  C.  Gurley,  Ernest  R.  Hedstrom,  Ell- 
wood  N.  Hennessy,  Asa  Hosmer,  Earl  C.  Hughes,  Edward  T.  Jones, 
E.  Russell  Karb,  Kirtland  Marsh,  Nels  A.  Nelson,  George  Ross, 
William  W.  Spratt,  Harold  L.  Tilton,  Henry  C.  Whitlock,  Clayton  R. 
Wilcox. 


1915 


41  Members 


30  Contributors 


73% 


Clarence  F.  Alexander,  Dwight  E.  Allen,  Howard  C.  Barnes,  William 
J.  Becker,  John  M.  Bond,  Roy  C.  Bowker,  Frederick  P.  Church, 
G.  Noble  Davidson,  Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart,  David  H.  Fleming,  Frank 
Forsberg,  John  W.  Gleason,  Robert  E.  Hancock,  Harrison  W.  Hosmer, 
Russell  N.  Hunter,  Charles  B.  Hurd,  Everett  Hutchins,  Winfield  S. 
Jewell,  Jr.,  Ralph  M.  Johnson,  Raymond  P.  Lansing,  Carroll  M. 
Lawton,  Ulric  J.  Lebourveau,  Philip  F.  Murray,  Edward  R.  Nary, 
Ernest  B.  Norton,  Russell  M.  Searle,  George  W.  Smith,  Jr.,  Myron  M. 
Smith,  Maurice  G.  Steele,  Edwin  T.  Warren. 


1916 


74  Members 


30  Contributors 


41% 


Coburn  L.  Berry,  J.  Arthur  Blair,  Carl  H.  Burgess,  Raymond  W. 
Burns,  Leslie  J.  Chaffee,  Wellen  H.  Colburn,  Simon  Collier,  Philip  N. 
Cooke,  Herbert  N.  Eaton,  Thomas  W  Farnsworth ,  Frank  G.  Gifford, 
Roland  D.  Home,  Harold  W.  Howarth,  Theodore  E.  Kloss,  Leonard 
M.  Krull,  Robert  E.  Lamb,  Donald  B.  Maynard,  Philip  P.  Murdick, 
Joseph  E.  Murphy,  Arthur  Nutt,  Chester  G.  Rice,  Raymond  W.T. 
Ricker,  Ellery  E.  Royal,  Harold  G.  Saunders,  C.  LeRoy  Storms, 
Sidney  T.  Swallow,  Harold  M.  Toombs,  Horace  Trull,  Selden  T. 
Williams,  Aurelio  E.  Zambarano. 


1917 


78  Members 


39  Contributors 


50% 


E.  Munroe  Bates,  Arthur  C.  Bird,  Edward  M.  Brennan,  Walter  F. 
Conlin,  Sr.,  Clinton  S.  Darling,  Richard  B.  Davidson,  Clarence  E. 
Fay,  Alfred  W.  Francis,  Leland  A.  Gardner,  Walter  H.  Gifford, 
Arthur  E.  Gorman,  Ronald  E.  Greene,  Robert  C.  Hanckel,  David  E. 
Hartshorn,  Charles  E.  Heywood,  Raymond  M.  Hicks,  Frederic  L. 
Holbrook,  Herman  Hollerith,  Jr.,  Andrew  B.  Holmstrom,  Clyde  T. 
Hubbard,  Everett  B.  Janvrin,  Richard  D.  Lambert,  John  M.  Leggett, 
William  L.G.  Mackenzie,  Paul  J.  Matte,  Warren  W.  Parks,  Philip  C. 
Pray,  Hermon  F.  Safford,  Henry  W.  Sheldrick,  Russell  H.  Smith, 
Moses  H.  Teaze,  Charles  A.  Thrasher,  Clarence  B.  Tilton,  Robert  L. 


Tomblen,    Max   W.   Tucker,  John   A.C.   Warner,  Allen  D.    Wassail, 
John  R.  Wheeler,  Levi  E.  Wheeler,  Hollis  J.  Wyman. 
In  Memoriam,  Lester  W.  Kimball. 

1918  49  Members  18  Contributors  37% 

James  Apostolou,  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Ervant  H.  Eresian,  George  C. 
Griffith,  Charles  S.  Howard,  Norman  P.  Knowlton,  John  F.  Kyes,  Jr., 
Heyward  F.  Lawton,  Lewis  F.  Lionvale,  Roger  M.  Lovell,  Benjamin 
Luther,  Edmond  E.  Moore,  Hobart  H.  Newell,  Maurice  W.  Richard- 
son, Ralph  F.  Tenney,  Leroy  W.  Vinal,  Charles  L.  Waddell,  Oakley 
C.  Walker,  Winfred  D.  Wilkinson. 


1919 


42  Members 


33  Contributors 


79% 


Edwin  W.  Bemis,  Carl  I.  Benson,  George  W.  Caldwell,  Donald  T. 
Canfield,  Roy  H.  Carpenter,  Roger  B.  Chaffee,  John  W.  Coghlin, 
E.  Leland  Durkee,  Howard  S.  Foster,  Ray  W.  Heffernan,  Judah  H. 
Humphrey,  Edgar  R.  Jones,  Howard  A.  Mayo,  Howard  A.  McCon- 
ville,  Richard  S.  Morse,  H.  Earl  Munz,  Richard  L.  Olson,  Vincent  J. 
Pettine,  George  R.  Rich,  Thomas  B.  Rutherford,  Robert  C. 
Sessions,  Charles  W.  Staples,  Raymond  E.  Taylor,  Harold  W. 
Thompson,    Louis   Zions. 

50-Year  Class  Gift,  James  E.  Arnold,  Carl  I.  Benson,  Everett  C. 
Bryant,  Donald  T.  Canfield,  Alden  G.  Carlson,  Roy  H.  Carpenter, 
Roger  B.  Chaffee,  John  W.  Coghlin,  Cyril  W.  Dawson,  E.  Leland 
Durkee,  Eric  S.  Ericsson,  Howard  S.  Foster,  Ray  W.  Heffernan, 
George  V.  Hough,  Judah  H.  Humphrey,  Burton  W.  Marsh,  '20, 
Howard  A.  Mayo,  Richard  L.  Olson,  Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr.,  '20, 
George  R.  Rich,  George  W.  Roraback,  Thomas  B.  Rutherford, 
Robert  C.  Sessions,  Raymond  E.  Taylor,  Harold  W.  Thompson, 
Alfred   M.   Whittemore,   Louis  Zions. 

1920  73  Members  35  Contributors  48% 

Paul  M.  Abbott,  Arvid  E.  Anderson,  Stanley  W.  Arthur,  Willis  F. 
Atkinson,  Lawrence  G.  Bean,  C.  Harold  Berg,  George  B.  Blaisdell, 
Harold  D.  Boutelle,  Herbert  E.  Brooks,  Frederick  R.  Butler, 
W.  Orrell  Davis,  Norman  C.  Firth,  Milton  W.  Garland,  Richard  A. 
Heald,  Raymond  B.  Heath,  Allan  W.  Hill,  John  Q.  Holmes,  Harold 
G.  Hunt,  Burton  W.  Marsh,  Raymon  F.  Meader,  Harry  C.  Merritt, 
Carlton  J.  O'Neil,  Ernest  A.  Peel,  Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr.,  Albert  R. 
Rienstra,  Saul  Robinson,  Baalis  Sanford,  Walter  B.  Shear,  Rudolph 
C.  Stange,  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Henry  B.  Townsend,  George  L.  White, 
Lester  C.  Wightman,  Albert  L.  Woodward,  Oliver  R.  Wulf. 


1921 


65  Members 


32  Contributors 


49% 


Chester  W.  Aldrich,  Harold  S.  Black,  Carleton  F.  Bolles,  Frank  K. 
Brown,  Cornelius  A.  Callahan,  Myron  D.  Chace,  Robert  E.  Chap- 
man, Philip  K.  Davis,  Irving  M.  Desper,  Robert  G.  Ferguson,  Walter 
G.  Fielder,  Edward  J.  P.  Fisher,  Wilmore  C.  Harcus,  Carroll  A. 
Huntington,  Cyril  Isreal,  E.  Daniel  Johnson,  Lyman  C.  Lovell, 
William  L.  Martin,  Lyle  J.  Morse,  Richard  P.  Penfield,  Edward  Rose, 
William  A.  Schuermann,  Paul  S.  Sessions,  B.  Clark  Shaw,  Irving  R. 
Smith,  Foster  E.  Sturtevant,  Lincoln  Thompson,  Francis  W.  Towle, 
Harold  B.  Whitmore,  Alexander  L.  Wilson,  Earl  H.  Winslow,  Paul  D. 
Woodbury. 

1922  83  Members  42  Contributors  50% 

Dean  W.  Alden,  Charles  I.  Babcock,  Wendell  B.  Batten,  Wellington 
H.  Bingham,  Alden  I.  Brigham,  Edward  L.  Campbell,  Charles  N. 
Clarkson,  Edward  H.  Colesworthy,  Martin  J.  Conroy,  William  H. 
Cooney,  Charles  S.  Cushing,  Robert  W.  Cushman,  Emerson  E. 
Donnell,  Richard  D.  Field,  Russell  M.  Field,  Weston  Hadden,  John 
A.  Herr,  William  S.  Hoar,  Wilfred  H.  Howe,  Solomon  Hurowitz, 
Lawrence  K.  Hyde,  Wayne  E.  Keith,  Enfried  T.  Larson,  Kenneth  J. 


THE   JOURNAL 


21 


Lloyd,  James  L.  Marston,  Frank  R.  Mason,  Lloyd  F.  McGlincy, 
Carl  F.  Meyer,  William  E.  Murphy,  Clark  H.  Overhiser,  C.  Warren 
Page,  George  F.  Parsons,  Fred  Pickwick,  Jr.,  Harold  S.  Rice,  Henry 
J.  Rives,  John  V.  Russell,  Ernest  M.  Schiller,  Edwin  L.  Sholz,  Luther 
C.  Small,  Stanley  M.  Townsend,  George  V.  Upton,  Jr.,  George  A. 
Walker,  Philip  H.  White,  Robert  M.  Wilder. 


1923 


71  Members 


34  Contributors 


48% 


J.  Carleton  Adams,  Jesse  M.  Blodget,  George  S.  Cary,  Edwin  B. 
Coghlin,  Lincoln  A.  Cundall,  Andrew  Fiore,  Judson  M.  Goodnow, 
Aldo  P.  Greco,  Kenneth  E.  Hapgood,  William  J.  Harrington,  Wallace 
C.  Hathaway,  C  Freeman  Hawley,  Carl  M.  Holden,  Max  Hurowitz, 
Edward  B.  Johnson,  Lewis  J.  Lenny,  Philip  W.  Lundgren,  Joseph  P. 
Mason,  Percival  E.  Meyer,  Weston  Morrill,  Raymond  D.  Morrison, 
Howard  S.  Nutting,  Ralph  C.  Pierce,  Frederick  H.  Scheer,  Richard 
H.  V.  Shaw,  George  B.  Snow,  Paul  R.  Swan,  John  H.  Tsui,  Roger  T. 
Waite,  Richard  Walberg,  James  A.  Whelpley,  Ralph  W.  White, 
Everett  G.  Wightman,  Raymond  S.  Worth. 


1924 


75  Members 


32  Contributors 


43% 


J.  Norman  Alberti,  Clarence  E.  Anderson,  Solon  C.  Bartlett, 
Edward  G.  Beardsley,  Milton  A.  Bemis,  Francis  C.  Bragg,  Edward  J. 
Burke,  Edward  L.  Carrington,  Thomas  L.  Counihan,  Rawson  C. 
Crawshaw,  Godfrey  J.  Danielson,  Warren  B.  Fish,  Roger  A.  Fuller, 
Preston  W.  Hale,  James  A.  Hillman,  Leslie  J.  Hooper,  Harry  L.  Hurd, 
Helge  S.  Johnson,  Lionel  O.  Lundgren,  Walter  T.  MacAdam,  Douglas 
B.  Martin,  Arthur  P.  Miller,  Alfred  K.  Morgan,  F.  Paul  Ronca,  John 
N.  Styffe,  Raymond  C.  Tower,  Carroll  C.  Tucker,  Stephen  J.  Vouch, 
Forrest  E.  Wilcox,  Raymond  G.  Wilcox,  Gordon  C.  Willard,  Donald 
B.  Wilson. 


1925 


77  Members 


25  Contributors 


33% 


David  C.  Bailey,  Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Roger  N.  Brooks,  Llewellyn  A. 
Burgess,  Carl  F.  Carlstrom,  Raymond  L.  Copson,  Louis  Corash, 
William  B.  Gould,  III,  0.  Arnold  Hansen,  Edwin  Higginbottom, 
Arthur  V.  Houle,  Daniel  L.  Hussey,  Urban  R.  Lamay,  Luther  B. 
Martin,  Donald  M.  McAndrew,  Henry  L.  Mellen,  David  J.  Minott, 
Roy  B.  Payne,  Julian  B.  Pendleton,  William  F.  Ronco,  Leonard  F. 
Sanborn,  L.  Ivan  Underwood,  Sigurd  R.  Wendin,  Lloyd  P.  Wilcox, 
Thomas  G.  Wright. 


1926 


124  Members  53  Contributors 


43% 


Walter  F.  Ames,  Kenneth  R.  Archibald,  Walter  R.  Bennet,  Harold  A. 
Baines,  Milton  E.  Berglund,  Raymond  H.  Bjork,  Richard  S. 
Boutelle,  Raymond  C.  Connolly,  Phillip  R.  Delphos,  Donald  G. 
Downing,  Elmer  0.  Earnshaw,  Frederick  D.  Fielder,  Joseph  P. 
Flemming,  Carroll  D.  Forristall,  F.  Ray  Green,  Donald  L.  Hager, 
Arthur  W.  Haley,  Carl  G.  Hammar,  Charles  B.  Hardy,  Frederic  V. 
Haskell,  Arnold  P.  Hayward,  Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr.,  Fred  H.  Hedin, 
Richard  P.  Houlihan,  Eugene  M.  Hunter,  Stanley  F.  Johnson, 
Chandler  W.  Jones,  O.  Harold  Kallander,  Howard  G.  Lasselle, 
Winthrop  S.  Marston,  Carleton  F.  Maylott,  Henry  G.  Mildrum,  John 
S.  Miller,  John  A.  Morse,  Stanley  R.  Osborne,  Linwood  E.  Page, 
Armand  L.  Paquette,  Harry  C.  Peinert,  Arthur  C.  Parsons,  George  I. 
Pierce,  Arthur  G.  Rand,  James  A.  Robertson,  William  A.  Russell, 
Donald  F.  Sears,  Charles  T.  Smith,  Mabbott  B.  Steele,  Harry  E. 
Stratton,  Charles  J.  Thompson,  Howard  B.  Thomson,  Llewellin  W. 
Wade,  Irvin  S.  Webster,  A.  Harold  Wendin,  Emerson  A.  Wiggin, 
Alfred   D.   Wilson. 


1927 


89  Members 


39  Contributors 


44% 


Richard    E     Bliven,  George  L.   Bush,  Edward  F.  Cahalen,  John   R 
Davis,   Chester    A.    Deane,    Harold   L.   Eastman,   Charles  H.    Fogg, 


Louis  H.  Griff,  Chester  Haitsma,  George  J.  Heckman,  Victor  E.  Hill, 
E.  Carl  Hoglund,  Richard  K.  Irons,  Lester  G.  Jaquith,  Robert  E. 
Johnson,  Walter  G.  Johnson,  Harry  J.  Kathman,  Donald  L.  King, 
Leonard  W.  Lewis,  Philip  A.  MacArdle,  Charles  MacLennan,  Arthur 
C.  Manning,  Dean  L.  Merrill,  Charles  S.  Moore,  Charles  B.  Parker, 
Robert  L.  Parker,  Nelson  E.  Parmelee,  Edward  J.  Purcell,  Jr., 
William  M.  Rauha,  Carleton  R.  Sanford,  Carl  H.  Schwind,  Donald  S. 
Searle,  James  M.  Simmons,  Nathan  M.  Southwick,  Jr.,  Howard  F. 
Stephenson,  Paul  W.  Swenson,  Emmett  A.  Thrower,  Russell  G. 
Whittemore,  John  F.  Wood,  Charles  F.  Monnier. 


1928 


108  Members 


59  Contributors 


45% 


Milton  H.  Aldrich,  Carl  F.  Alsing,  Lawrence  E.  Backlin,  Roderick  A. 
Bail,  Gabriel  O.  Bedard,  Harold  G.  Butterworth,  Frank  E.  Buxton, 
Bernard  N.  Carlson,  Arthur  M.  Cheney,  Jr.,  Frederick  R.  Cook, 
Gifford  T.  Cook,  Lyman  W.  Cross,  Charles  H.  Decater,  Herbert  P. 
Dobie,  John  E.  Driscoll,  Charles  G.  Durbin,  Theodore  J.  Englund, 
Clifford  G.  Engstrom,  Frank  J.  Fleming,  W.  Bigelow  Hall,  Paul  K. 
Henley,  Jacob  J.  Jaffee,  Dwight  E.  Jones,  Ralph  V.  Karlson,  Francis 
H.  King,  Frederick  H.  Knight,  A.  Everett  Lawrence,  Louis  F. 
Leidholdt,  Clifford  S.  Livermore,  Ralph  H.  Lundberg,  James  A. 
MacNabb,  William  A.  Manty,  Roland  C.  Mather,  James  H.  Mc- 
Carthy, Charles  B.  Muzzy,  Alexander  L.  Naylor,  Forrest  S.  Nelson, 
Reginald  J.  Odabashian,  Arthur  W.  Olcott,  Harland  L.  Page,  Karl  W. 
Penney,  Wilbur  H.  Perry,  Lincoln  H.  Peterson,  Stanley  H.  Pickford, 
Donald  P.  Reed,  Gordon  E.  Rice,  Frederick  G.  Sandstrom,  Lester  H. 
Sarty,  Arthur  T.  Simmonds,  Roger  K.  Stoughton,  Milton  A. 
Swanson,  Rodman  R.  Tatnall,  William  J.  Thacker,  James  W. 
Torrant,  Andrew  G.  Toussaint,  Winslow  C.  Wentworth,  Andrew  L. 
Wilkinson,  Edward  N.  Wooding,  Alfred  W.  Young. 


1929 


95  Members 


50  Contributors 


53% 


Frederick  G.  Baldwin,  Wayne  S.  Berry,  Clifford  Broker,  Charles  J. 
Brzezinski,  Arthur  H.  Burr,  Carl  H.  Carlson,  Luther  Q.  H.  Chin, 
Nathaniel  Clapp,  Laurence  F.  Cleveland,  William  L.  Crosby,  Boris 
Dephoure,  Diran  Deranian,  Richard  J.  Dobie,  Stephen  D.  Donahue, 
Robert  M.  Eccles,  Gale  E.  Flint,  Lester  W.  Frank,  Frank  H. 
French,  J.  Kendall  Fullerton,  Arthur  E.  Gilbert,  Jr.,  John  E.  Gill, 
O.  Vincent  Gustafson,  Holbrook  L.  Horton,  William  R.  Hutton, 
Francis  E.  R.  Johnson,  J.  Bernard  Joseph,  Arthur  W.  Knight, 
Harold  P.  Kranz,  Milton  F.  Labonte,  Edward  E.  Lane,  Daniel  R. 
Leamy,  Joseph  Matulaitis,  Frederick  J.  McGowan,  Jr.,  John  L. 
Mooshian,  Percy  E.  Newton,  Andrew  J.  O'Connell,  Erold  F.  Pierce, 
Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr.,  John  D.  Putnam,  Harold  P.  Richmond, 
Nicholas  J.  Ruberti,  Lawrence  Silverborg,  Lothar  A.  Sontag, 
Richard  J.  Stone,  Wilford  A.  Sutthill,  George  J.  Tsatsis,  Robert  L. 
Town,  Francis  Wiesman,  Russell  C.  Wiley,  James  H.  Williams. 


1930 


119  Members 


50  Contributors 


42% 


Henry  O.  Allen,  Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Albert  A.  Baron,  Robert  S. 
Bennett,  David  K.  Bragg,  John  W.  Burt,  E.  Waldemar  Carlson, 
C.  Eugene  Center,  Joseph  H.  Coghill,  Charles  H.  Cole,  John  W. 
Conley,  George  W.  Crossley,  Sherman  Dane,  William  D.  Davidson, 
Herbert  W.  Davis,  William  H.  Doyle,  Charles  R.  Fay,  Stanley  H. 
Fillion,  Myrton  P.  Finney,  Thomas  F.  Flynn,  Walter  H.  French, 
Ralph  H.  Gilbert,  Armando  E.  Greco,  Carmelo  S.  Greco,  Roger  T. 
Griswold,  Lincoln  B.  Hathaway,  Daniel  S.  Horgan,  Clifford  8.  Ives, 
Francis  E.  Kennedy,  William  W.  Locke,  Percy  F  Marsaw,  George  A. 
Marston,  James  E.  McLoughlin,  Paul  B.  Morgan,  Jr.,  Albert  N 
Narter,  Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  Christos  L  Orphanides,  John  R  Parker, 
George  E.  Perreault,  Fred  P.  Peters,  Arthur  F.  Pierce,  Jr.,  M. 
Lawrence  Price,  Warren  R.  Purcell,  Philip  M.  Seal.  Arthur  J. 
Shanstanian,  Harry  A.  Sorensen,  James  B.  Stearns,  George  W. 
Stratlon,  William  E.  Tate,  Vernon  E    Wade,  Warren  C.   Whittum. 


22 


THE    JOURNAL 


1931 


120  Members 


50  Contributors 


42% 


Idolf  Anderson,  Jr.,  Robert  E.  Barrett,  Edward  J.  Bayon,  Clifford  A. 
Bergquist,  Robert  Bumstead,  Joseph  J.  Bunevith,  H.  Oscar  Carlson, 
Benjamin  R.  Chadwick,  F.  Dudley  Chaffee,  Russell  V.  Corsini, 
Harold  T.  Cutler,  Henry  N.  Deane,  Albert  M.  Demont.  Warren  N. 
Doubleday,  I.  Bernard  Erkkila,  Frank  S.  Finlayson,  Theodore  L. 
Fish,  John  E.  Fletcher,  M.  Dexter  Gleason,  A.  Wallace  Gove, 
William  Graham,  Allan  G.  Hall,  Raymond  E.  Hall,  Jay  M.  Harpell, 
Edwin  V.  Haskell,  Frederic  C.  Holmes,  John  H.  Hinchliffe,  Jr., 
Charles  A.  Kennedy,  David  D.  Kiley,  Russell  J.  Libbey,  Otis  E. 
Mace,  Oliver  B.  Merrill,  William  H.  Mill,  John  A.  Mott,  J.  Philip 
Pierce,  Eben  H.  Rice,  Carl  F.  Sage,  Trueman  L.  Sanderson,  George 
W.  Smith,  Michael  C.  Sodano,  Herbert  A.  Stewart,  Hurant  Tashjian, 
Robert  D.  Taylor,  A.  Francis  Townsend,  Prescott  K.  Turner,  John 
B.  Tuthill,  Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr.,  Irving  S.  White,  Carroll  N. 
Whitaker,  Robert  S.  Williamson,  Charles  E.  Woodward. 


1932 


113  Members 


48  Contributors 


42% 


N.  Albert  Anderson,  William  W.  Asp,  Arthur  W.  Backgren,  Clement 
R.  Barlow,  Robert  I.  Belmont,  Theodore  H.  Berard,  Herbert  F. 
Borg,  Walter  J.  Brosnan,  Dana  B.  Carleton,  Henry  E.  Carlson, 
William  J.  Cullen,  Marcel  A.  E.  Delys,  John  W.  Dowgielewicz, 
C.  Milton  Ekberg,  Ernest  W.  Foster,  Earle  E.  Green,  William  E. 
Hanson,  Lambert  R.  Johnson,  Elliott  D.  Jones,  Howard  P.  Lekberg, 
Eino  0.  Leppanen,  Lester  N.  Lintner,  Richard  H.  Martin,  Donald  J. 
McGee,  Robert  W.  McMaster,  William  J.  Minnick,  Norman  Monks, 
Paul  E.  Nelson,  John  Nizamoff,  Olof  W.  Nyquist,  Charles  S. 
O'Brien,  Jr.,  Constantine  G.  Orfanos,  Irwin  W.  Peterson,  Edwin  L. 
Pollard,  Henry  B.  Pratt,  Jr.,  Russell  D.  Purrington,  William  F. 
Reardon,  David  Rice.  Lawrence  J.  Sarkozy,  Leon  D.  Skuropat, 
Eugene  W.  Somerville,  Ellis  R.  Spaulding,  Francis  M.  Sullivan, 
Sidney  Thune,  John  U.  Tillan,  John  R.  Tinker,  Curtis  M.  White, 
Frederick  F.  Whitford,  Clelan  G.  Winn. 


1933 


125  Members 


58  Contributors 


46% 


Edward  K.  Allen,  Jr.,  Alexander  L.  Alves,  William  A.  Anderson, 
Henry  C.  Ashley,  Gordon  E.  Barnes,  Waldo  E.  Bass,  Ethan  D. 
Bassett,  Robert  W.  Blake,  Hugo  P.  Borgatti,  Charles  S.  Brewer, 
Allen  L.  Brownlee,  R.  Norman  Clark,  Raymond  B.  Crawford, 
George  Davagian,  Thomas  E.  Decker,  Herman  W.  Dorn,  Cornelius  J. 
Doyle,  J.  Roy  Driscoll,  John  J.  Dwyer,  Frank  L.  Eaton,  Jr., 
Albert  H.  Ensor,  Kenneth  M.  Farnsworth,  Robert  E.  Ferguson, 
Alden  H.  Fuller,  Robert  W.  Fulton,  Irving  J.  Gartrell,  Kenneth  E. 
Gleason,  Albert  B.  Glenn,  Gilbert  U.  Gustafson,  Linval  D.  Harvey, 
Donald  W.  Haskins,  John  A.  Henrickson,  Leighton  Jackson,  Harry 
T.  Jensen,  Carl  L.  Johnson,  Carroll  M.  Johnson,  Edwin  L.  Johnson, 
Aram  Kalenian,  John  C.  Keefe,  Jr.,  Albert  J.  Laliberte,  Harvey  F. 
Lorenzen,  George  W.  Lyman,  Richard  T.  Merrell,  Emil  C.  Ostlund, 
H.  Edward  Perkins,  Jr.,  W.  Harvey  Perreault,  Robert  C.  Peterson, 
A.  Elmer  Pihl,  Frederick  M.  Potter,  Wesley  B.  Reed,  Franklin  B. 
Roberts,  John  C.  L.  Shabeck,  Jr.,  Arthur  E.  Smith,  John  C.  Spence, 
Chester  R.  Spielvogel,  Sumner  B.  Sweetser,  Walter  W.  Tuthill, 
Jeremiah  H.   Vail,  Ralph  J.  Voigt,  Albert  S.  White,  Jr. 


1934 


116  Members 


57  Contributors 


49% 


Bertil  H.  Anderson,  Clarence  W.  Anderson,  Howard  W.  Atkins, 
G.  Standish  Beebe,  Harold  B.  Bell,  Kenneth  E.  Bennett,  John  A. 
Birch,  Charles  N.  Bissell,  Joseph  A.  Bober,  John  H.  Bradbury, 
William  E.  Burpee,  J.  Boylston  Campbell,  Allan  R.  Catheron, 
Edward  D.  Chase,  Anthony  C.  Cowal,  Ernest  M.  Crowell,  Merritt  E. 
Cutting,  Warren  H.  Davenport,  Charles  S.  Dayton,  Jr.,  Dwight  J. 
Dwinell,  Charles  J.   Egan,  Robert  K.  Finlayson,  Charles  S.   Frary, 


Jr.,  Robert  S.  Grand,  Joseph  Haddad,  Carl  Hammarstrom,  Curtis  A. 
Hedler,  Russell  P.  Hook,  Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr.,  George  Kalista,  John 
H.  Keenan,  B.  Gustaf  Larson,  Luther  C.  Leavitt,  Edward  R. 
Markert,  Charles  W.  McElroy,  John  A.  McMahon,  William  E.  Mesh, 
William  P.  Mitnik,  Raymond  H.  Neubauer,  Shepard  B.  Palmer,  Jr., 
C.  Eugene  Parta,  Albert  T.  Phelps,  Louis  Press,  V.  Thomas 
Ratkiewich,  Jr.,  Richard  W.  Rhodes,  Elijah  B.  Romanoff,  Edmund 
F.  Rothemich,  James  V.  Rowley,  Everett  F.  Sellew,  H.  Victor 
Stenbeck,  Howard  E.  Stockwell,  Paul  J.  Sullivan,  Michael  G. 
Tashjian,  Donald  C.  Vibber,  Arthur  B.  Wentzel,  Howard  A. 
Whittum,  Gordon  P.  Whitcomb. 
In  Memoriam,  Leon  J.  Volley. 


1935 


133  Members 


57  Contributors 


43% 


Mark  Abelson,  Edward  J.  Abendschien,  George  W.  Axelby,  Carl  G. 
Bergstrom,  Karl  H.  Bohaker,  Joseph  P.  Buckley,  Edwin  T.  Clinton, 
B.  Austin  Coates,  John  B.  Coyle,  C.  Marshall  Dann,  Maurice  E.  Day, 
Philip  S.  Dean,  William  A.  Dempsey,  Samuel  D.  Ehrlich,  Joseph 
Glasser,  Martin  B.  Graham,  James  J.  Gushaw,  Preston  H.  Hadley,  Jr., 
Allan  F.  Hardy,  Jr.,  Francis  L.  Harrington,  James  K.  Healy, 
Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  Ladislaus  T.  Jodaitis,  Joseph  A. 
Johnson,  Paul  S.  Krantz,  Roger  H.  Lawton,  Harold  A.  LeDuc, 
Lester  L.  Libby,  C.  Gordon  Lincoln,  Arvo  A.  Luoma,  Frank  H. 
Madigan,  Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.,  Raymond  L.  Moeller,  John  J. 
Molloy,  Homer  R.  Morrison,  Roland  L.  Nims,  Andrew  W.  Palm, 
William  C.  Potter,  Wesley  A.  Proctor,  Charles  C.  Puffer,  Raymond  J. 
Quenneville,  Lionel  C.  Reed,  Irving  Skeist,  Charles  S.  Smith, 
M.  Kent  Smith,  Kingston  C.  Smith,  David  V.  Smyth,  William  R. 
Steur,  Roy  O.  Swenson,  Gordon  S.  Swift,  J.  James  Tasillo, 
Robert  B.  Taylor,  Harold  K.  Vickery,  Harvey  W.  White,  Plummer 
Wiley,  William  E.  Wyman. 


1936 


111  Members 


40  Contributors 


36% 


Harry  T.  Anderson,  Jr.,  Leo  T.  Benoit,  Carl  F.  Benson,  Walter  F. 
Beth,  Carleton  W.  Borden,  John  R.  Brand,  George  W.  Busby,  Jr., 
John  R.  Casler,  Jr.,  George  L.  Chase,  Earl  M.  Curtis,  Walter  G. 
Dahlstrom,  Donald  L.  Edmunds,  C.  James  Ethier,  Robert  Fowler, 
Jr.,  Thomas  C.  Frary,  Scoff  K.  Goodwin,  Vincent  P.  Grubbe,  Harold 
F.  Henrickson,  L.  Brewster  Howard,  Richard  W.  Keenan,  Raymond 
J.  Lawn,  Clinton  E.  Leech,  N.  Robert  Levine,  William  C.  Maine, 
Robert  E.  Maynard,  David  M.  Morley,  John  J.  O'Donnell,  Michael  C. 
Rallis,  George  E.  Rocheford,  Wesley  F.  Rouse,  Jacob  A.  Sacks, 
Louis  Sadick,  Alan  F.  Shepardson,  Burton  H.  Simons,  Stedman  W. 
Smith,  John  H.  Thompson,  Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  Abbott  D. 
Wilcox,  Robert  C.  Wright,  Theodore  C.  Wyman,  Frank  L.  Yeo. 


1937 


114  Members 


46  Contributors 


40% 


Erving  Arundale,  Philip  G.  Atwood,  Lawrence  K.  Barber,  Donald  L. 
Beebe,  B.  Allen  Benjamin,  William  E.  Brown,  William  S.  Bushell, 
Martin  G.  Caine,  William  E.  Carew,  William  C.  Clark,  John  H. 
Covell,  Jr.,  Harold  N.  Cox,  Jr.,  Gordon  F.  Crowther,  C.  Chapin 
Cutler,  Gordon  C.  Edwards,  Morton  S.  Fine,  Paul  R.  Glazier, 
Laurence  F.  Granger,  Francis  S.  Harvey,  Daniel  J.  Hastings,  Ralph 
H.  Holmes,  A.  Hallier  Johnson,  Stanley  L.  Hyman,  Nathaniel  I. 
Korman,  Carl  E.  Larson,  Jr.,  Ray  K.  Linsley,  Jr.,  Richard  J.  Lyman, 
Francis  H.  Marchand,  Maxwell  E.  Marshall,  Samuel  W.  Mencow, 
Charles  R.  Michel,  Rolland  W.  McMurphy,  Howard  W.  Osborn, 
Carl  S.  Otto,  Chandler  P.  Pierce,  A.  Hamilton  Powell,  Foster  C. 
Powers,  William  Price,  Raymond  W.  Schuh,  Carleton  E.  P.  Vinal, 
Talbot  F.  Wentworth,  M.  Blair  Whitcomb,  John  B.  Willard,  Dana  W. 
Woodward,  William  W.  Worthley,  Leonard  A.  Young. 

1938  136  Members  61  Contributors  45% 

Robert   B.    Abbe,    Robert   O.   Alexander,   Edward  W.   Armstrong, 


THE  JOURNAL 


23 


Gilbert  G.  Ashwell,  Paul  H.  Bergstrom,  Eugene  Bertozzi,  Charles  C. 
Bonin,  J.  Randolph  Buck,  Frederick  J.  Burg,  John  C.  Bradshaw, 
Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  George  B.  Cattermole,  Donald  B.  Clark, 
Richard  W.  Cloues,  Andrew  R.  Constant,  Leo  J.  Cronin,  Robert  P. 
Day,  Albert  L.  Delude,  Jr.,  Allen  ft.  Deschere,  Richard  J. 
Donovan,  Richard  M.  Elliott,  Robert  A.  Evans,  E.  Morton  Fenner, 
Robert  H.  Field,  Neil  A.  Fitzgerald,  Norman  M.  Gamache,  Thomas 

B.  Graham,  Perry  F.  Grenon,  Allen  H.  Gridley,  Jr.,  Ernest  E. 
Gustafson,  Howard  W.  Haynes,  William  D.  Holcomb,  Raymond  K. 
Houston,  Robert  Karakoosh,  Robert  B.  Keith,  Peter  P.  Koliss, 
Albert  J.  Kullas,  M.  Leonard  Kuniholm,  John  G.  Lawrence, 
A.  George  Mallis,  Daniel  G.  Mazur,  Richard  G.  Munson,  Walter  O. 
Nygaard,  Robert  W.  O'Brien,  Raymond  J.  Perreault,  Donald  F. 
Pethybridge,  Arnet  L.  Powell,  Maurice  Pressman,  Henry  M.  Ritz, 
Malcolm  G.  Safford,  Edward  A.  Sawtell,  John  B.  Scalzi,  Philip  R. 
Seaver,  Dana  D.  Stratton,  Francis  B.  Swenson,  Robert  M.  Taft, 
Raymond  H.  Tolman,  Edward  E.  Turner,  Paul  H.  Vaughan,  Murray 

C.  Wilson,  Francis  L.  Witkege. 


1939 


139  Members 


58  Contributors 


42% 


Walter  L.  Abel,  Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr.,  Roland  N.  Anderson, 
Robert  V.  Bergstrom,  Jack  F.  Boyd,  Harrison  K.  Brown,  Donald  M. 
Burness,  John  K.  Busada,  Wilder  ft.  Carson,  Allan  H.  Chase, 
Malcolm  ft.  Chandler,  Arthur  N.  Cooley,  Apostle  T.  Dervos, 
Howard  Duchacek,  Floyd  J.  Folmsbee,  George  C.  Graham,  Jr., 
Eugene  L.  Gravlin,  Jacob  J.  Hagopian,  John  C.  Harvey,  Jr.,  John  G. 
Hollick,  Donald  E.  Houser,  John  W.  Hughes,  David  H.  Hunt,  Roger 
L.  Iffland,  Paul  W.  Johnson,  Samuel  B.  Kaplan,  Oiva  J.  Kama, 
William  L.  Kay,  Carl  A.  Keyser,  Philip  A.  Kulin,  Gleason  W.  Jewett, 
John  H.  Lancaster,  Leonard  B.  Landall,  Albert  M.  Lavan,  Carl  W. 
Lewin,  C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  Arthur  H.  Mallon.  Robert  W. 
Martin,  David  McEwan,  Ward  D.  Messimer,  Robert  B.  Mirick, 
George  E.  Monchamp,  Jr.,  Robert  A.  Morse,  Robert  C.  Murphy, 
C.  Kenneth  Olson,  John  F.  Peavey,  Frederick  S.  Pyne,  Albert  J. 
Raslavsky,  Walter  P.  Rodgers,  Leo  G.  Rourke,  Jr.,  Billie  A.  Schmidt, 
Norman  W.  Stewart,  Frans  E.  Strandberg,  Louis  E.  Stratton,  Charles 
W.  Thulin,  Fred  N.  Webster,  Harold  E.  White,  Richard  B.  Wilson. 


1940 


157  Members 


63  Contributors 


40% 


Clayton  H.  Allen,  Eric  S.  Anderson,  Donald  ft.  Bates,  Max  Bialer, 
George  S.  Bingham,  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell,  William  H.  Bosworth, 
Ronald  S.  Brand,  William  S.  Brooks,  Malcolm  S.  Burton,  Donald  S. 
Chatfield,  Edward  D.  Cross,  Frank  J.  Delany,  Arthur  S.  Dinsmore, 
Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr.,  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  Kenneth  C  Eraser, 
Howard  G.  Freeman,  Carl  F.  Fritch,  Jr.,  Clyde  L.  Gerald,  W.  Clark 
Goodchild,  Jr.,  Edward  S.  Goodrich,  Frank  C.  Gustafson,  Edward 
£  J.  Hafey,  Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr.,  Robert  W.  Hewey,  Robert  E. 
Higgs,  Albert  E.  Howell,  Jr.,  Harding  B.  Jenkins,  Fritz  E.  Johanson, 
Benedict  K.  Kaveckas,  Stanley  W.  Kimball,  Arthur  R.  Koerber, 
David  A.  Kuniholm,  Benjamin  A.  Lambert,  Norman  U.  LaLiberte, 
John  A.  Leach,  Vernon  J.  Liberty,  Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr.,  Noel  ft. 
Maleady,  Zareh  Martin,  Kenneth  H.  McClure,  Lawrence  C.  Neale, 
Robert  G.  Newton,  Henry  J.  Paulsen,  John  H.  Peters,  III,  Bruce  G. 
Potter,  Marcus  A.  Rhodes,  Jr.,  Milton  E.  Ross,  Alden  T.  Roys,  M. 
Michael  Sadick,  Raymond  B.  Shlora,  S.  Merrill  Skeist,  Everett  P. 
Smith,  Joseph  V.  Smolinski,  Walter  H.  Sodano,  Frank  B.  Stevenson, 
Lawrence  ft.  Sullivan,  Robinson  Swift,  Harry  Terkanian,  Stanley  M. 
Terry,  Daniel  W.  bon  Bremen,  Jr.,  Randall  Whitehead,  David  B. 
Zipser. 


1941 


155  Members 


57  Contributors 


37% 


Donald  T.  Atkinson,  Albert  G.  Bellos,  Carl  W.  Bettcher,  Jr., 
William  Bosyk,  Irving  A.  Breger,  William  J.  Carroll,  Jr.,  Frederick  B. 
Chamber/in,  Sidney  W.  Clark,  George  A.  Cowan,  Thomas  R. 
d'Errico,    Kenneth    R.    Dresser,    James    C.    Ferguson,    George    F. 


George,  Lloyd  E.  Greenwood,  Marvin  Handleman,  John  T.  Haran, 
Leslie  B.  Harding,  James  H.  Hinman,  Charles  L.  Hoebel,  F.  Harold 
Holland,  Jr.,  Stephen  Horbal,  John  S.  Ingham,  Joseph  P.  Jurga, 
Harry  D.  Kingsley,  Norman  G.  Klaucke,  Melvin  H.  Knapp,  George 
W.  Knauff,  Frank  R.  Lindberg,  Chester  P.  Luke,  Stanley  J.  Majka, 
James  E.  McGinnis,  F.  Douglas  McKeown,  Herman  Medwin,  Robert 
A.  Muir,  N.  Aaron  Naboicheck,  Paul  G.  Nystrom,  Norman  H. 
Osgood,  Hilliard  W.  Paige,  Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr.,  Russell  W.  Parks, 
George  K.  Peck,  Stanley  S.  Ribb,  Richard  G.  Ramsdell,  William  C. 
Richardson,  Harold  E.  Roberton,  Jr.,  William  P.  Simmons,  Charles 
O.  Smith,  Donald  E.  Smith,  Sidney  Soloway,  Ralph  W.  Stinson, 
Robert  W.  Tuller,  Anton  J.  West,  Leonard  H.  White,  Berkeley 
Williams,  Jr.,  Robert  F.  Wilson,  Alfred  E.  Winslow,  F.  William 
Ziegler. 


1942 


161  Members 


66  Contributors 


41% 


Robert  £  Allen,  Jonathan  B.  Allured,  E.  Curtis  Ambler,  William  L. 
Ames,  Albert  S.  Ashmead,  George  F.  Barber,  John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr., 
Robert  M.  Bendett,  Norman  C.  Bergstrom,  Delbert  A.  Betterley, 
Gerald  J.  Bibeault,  Joseph  W.  Blaine,  Jr.,  Roy  F.  Bourgault,  Gordon 
J.  Chaffee,  Robert  C.  Chaffe,  Charles  W.  Charles,  Harold  L.  Crane, 
Harold  E.  Crosier,  Jr.,  Wilbur  H.  Day,  Paul  C.  Disario,  William  B. 
Dodge,  Eric  W.  Essen,  James  Fernane,  Robert  S.  Fleming,  John 
Ford,  Jr.,  Ralph  G.  Fritch,  Clinton  A.  Gerlach,  Herbert  M. 
Goodman,  Warren  G.  Harding,  Philip  J.  Hastings,  Edward  A. 
Hebditch,  Robert  H.  Hodges,  Robert  L.  Holden,  Peter  P.  Holz, 
Edward  H.  Jacobs,  William  S.  Jackson,  Norman  A.  Kerr,  Richard  H. 
Kimball,  Jr.,  Elmer  E.  Larrabee,  Frederic  Merriam,  F.  Gordon 
Merrill,  Albert  Mitnick,  Francis  J.  Oneglia,  Rodney  G.  Paige, 
Robert  W.  Pease,  Ralph  W.  Piper,  Jr.,  Russell  C.  Proctor,  Gordon  H. 
Raymond,  James  F.  Robjent,  John  E.  Rogerson,  Adolph  A. 
Salminen,  Elton  J.  Sceggel,  Robert  A.  Schultheiss,  Robert  W. 
Searles,  George  H.  Sprague,  Jr.,  Victor  H.  Thulin,  Victor  Tolis, 
Etienne  Totti,  Jr.,  Noel  Totti,  Jr.,  Howard  C.  Warren,  J.  Richard 
Weiss,  Jr.,  Samuel  W.  Williams,  Jr.,  Norman  A.  Wilson,  William  C. 
Woods,  Raymond  Wynkoop,  Paul  C.  Yankauskas,  Warren  B.  Zepp. 


1943 


140  Members 


60  Contributors 


43% 


Donald  C.  Alexander,  Everett  J.  Ambrose,  Jr.,  Louis  T.  Bartlett, 
Elmer  W.  Bennett,  Jr.,  Robert  A.  Bierweiler,  Harold  W.  Brandes, 
Hugh  M.  Brautigam,  Nelson  M.  Calkins,  Jr.,  Edwin  C  Campbell, 
Warren  H.  Chaffee,  Jackson  L.  Durkee,  Richard  F.  Dyer,  Lee  P. 
Farnsworth,  J.  Perry  Eraser,  George  W.  Golding,  Jr.,  Robert  £ 
Gordon,  Philip  J.  Gow,  Arthur  V.  Grazulis,  Leonard  Hershoff, 
Franklin  K.  Holbrook,  Carl  E.  Hartbower,  William  S.  C.  Henry, 
Chester  E.  Holmlund,  John  W.  Huckins,  Richard  Jamron,  Joseph  M. 
Jolda,  Arnold  R.  Jones,  Walter  E.  Kaskan,  Joseph  F.  Kawzowicz, 
Averill  S.  Keith,  Friend  H.  Kierstead,  Jr.,  Russell  L.  King,  Clifton  8. 
Kinne,  Victor  E.  Kohman,  Thomas  P.  Landers,  Arthur  E.  Lindroos, 
Herbert  W.  Marsh,  Harry  H.  Merkel,  Behrends  Messer,  Jr.,  S.  Bailey 
Norton,  Jr.,  Earl  G.  Page,  Jr.,  Robert  A.  Painter,  James  H. 
Parliman,  Edward  H.  Peterson,  James  J.  Pezza.  Leon  H.  Rice, 
Donald  M.  Roun,  Donald  H.  Russell,  Alan  N  Sanderson,  Robert  P. 
Seaton,  Richard  8.  Shaw,  Bruce  E.  Smyth,  Raymond  W.  South- 
worth,  George  E.  Stannard,  Frank  Szel,  William  W.  Tunnicliffe, 
Alfred  Voedisch,  Jr.,  Pierre  Volkmar,  Richard  T.  Whitcomb,  Edward 
C.  White. 


1944 


157  Members 


74  Contributors 


47% 


Gordon  C.  Anderson,  Herbert  Asher,  Roy  E.  Baharian,  Francis  L. 
Barry,  John  A.  Bjork,  Harold  W.  Blake,  Norman  S  Blodgett, 
Thomas  A.  Bombicino,  Donald  E.  Buser,  Sherman  B.  Campbell, 
Richard  A.  Carson,  John  W.  Chandler,  George  W.  Collins.  Charles  S. 
Cooper,  Lee  G.  Cordier,  Jr.,  Leslie  M.  Davis,  Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart, 


24 


THE    JOURNAL 


Jr.,  Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  Einar  A.  Eriksen,  David  M.  Field, 
Roger  F.  French,  Alan  C.  Gault,  Joseph  W.  Gibson,  Jr.,  Bruce  D. 
Hainsworth,  R.  Allan  Harder,  Raymond  E.  Herzog,  Harrison  E. 
Holbrook,  Jr.,  Richard  G.  Holden,  Leonard  Israel,  Erling  Lagerholm. 
John  W.  Lebourveau,  Allan  R.  Mandelin,  Vernon  A.  McLaskey, 
Fred  S.  Moulton,  John  W.  Patterson,  C.  Raymond  Peterson, 
Leonard  S.  Porter,  William  E.  Powers,  Jr.,  Paul  I.  Pressel,  William  L. 
Raymond,  Jr.,  L.  Howard  Reagan,  Lynwood  C.  Rice,  John  J. 
Robinson,  Leon  Rosenthal,  Richard  W.  Russell,  George  W.  Sargent, 
Arakel  M.  Shooshan,  Floyd  F.  Smith,  Arthur  L.  Stowe,  Charles  P. 
Stowell,  Warner  H.  Tabor,  Charles  C.  Tanona,  Christopher  T.  Terpo, 
Stephen  J.  Turek,  John  N.  Wholean,  Kimball  R.  Woodbury. 
25 -Year  Class  Gift,  Gordon  C.  Anderson,  Herbert  Asher,  Roy  E. 
Baharian,  John  S.  Bateman,  John  A.  Bjork,  Harold  W.  Blake, 
Norman  S.  Blodgett,  Thomas  A.  Bombicino.  Philip  P.  Brown, 
Robert  C.  Brown,  Sherman  B.  Campbell,  Richard  A.  Carson, 
Charles  S.  Cooper,  Lee  G.  Cordier,  Jr.,  Stewart  Dalzell,  III,  James  W. 
Dashner,  Harold  C.  Davis,  Jr.,  Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart,  Jr.,  Irving 
James  Donahue,  Jr.,  Nicholas  N.  Economou,  Einar  A.  Eriksen, 
David  M.  Field,  Roger  F.  French,  Alan  C.  Gault,  Irving  B.  Gerber, 
Joseph  W.  Gibson,  Jr.,  R.  Allan  Harder,  Richard  G.  Holden, 
Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr.,  Michael  J.  Hutnik,  Leonard  Israel, 
Erling  Lagerholm,  Alfred  F.  Larkin,  Jr.,  John  W.  Lebourveau, 
Vernon  A.  McLaskey,  Ellsworth  P.  Mellor,  Richard  K.  Merrell, 
Fred  S.  Moulton,  Douglas  G.  Noiles,  John  W.  Patterson,  C. 
Raymond  Peterson,  Arthur  P.  Pingalore,  William  E.  Powers,  Paul  I. 
Pressel,  William  L.  Raymond,  Jr.,  L.  Howard  Reagan,  Lynwood  C. 
Rice,  Miles  I.  Roth,  Richard  W.  Russell,  Arakel  M.  Shooshan,  Arthur 
L.  Stowe,  Howard  E.  Swenson,  Charles  C.  Tanona,  Christopher  T. 
Terpo,  John  G.  Underbill,  John  N  Wholean,  Kimball  R.  Woodbury. 


1945 


104  Members 


54  Contributors 


52% 


Frank  C.  Baginski,  Edwin  G.  Baldwin,  John  C.  Bayer,  Edward  C. 
Berndt,  Jr.,  Albert  C  Berry,  James  E.  Breed,  Robert  M.  Buck, 
Elso  R.  Caponi,  Joseph  D.  Carrabino,  Carl  C.  Clark,  James  J. 
Clerkin,  Jr.,  Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr.,  Stanley  R.  Cross,  Jr.,  William  P. 
Densmore,  Frederic  A.  Diegel,  Robert  E.  Duffy,  Harris  DuFresne, 
Robert  M.  Edgerly,  Richard  S.  Fitts,  Warren  H.  Fitzer,  Harold 
Fleit,  John  W.  Fondahl,  Anson  C.  Fyler,  Howard  D.  Gerring, 
Alfred  E.  Green,  John  T.  E.  Hegeman,  Philip  A.  Henning,  William  C. 
Howard,  John  P.  Hyde,  Charles  H.  Johnson,  Franklin  S.  June,  Owen 
W.  Kennedy,  Jr.,  Ernest  R.  Kretzmer,  Frederick  J.  Levitsky, 
Eugene  C  Logan,  Robert  W.  Lotz,  Walter  P.  Matzelevich,  John  B. 
McMaster,  Charles  A.  Morse,  Jr.,  Hugo  L.  Norige,  Robert  E.  Powers, 
Roger  P.  Roberge,  Robert  E.  Scott,  Elmer  B.  Severs,  Jr.,  Elbridge  M. 
Smith,  Frank  J.  Stefanov,  Robert  A.  Stengard,  Philip  V.  Tarr,  Jr., 
John  A.  Templeton,  Mitchell  J.  Tenerowicz,  Stanley  B.  Thomson, 
Joseph  F.  Tivnan,  Jr.,  George  V.  Uihlein,  Jr.,  Warren  H.  Willard. 


1946 


126  Members 


33  Contributors 


26% 


Robert  C.  Appenzeller,  Frank  L.  Baumgardner,  Cushing  C.  Bozen- 
hard,  John  L.  Brown,  Roger  H.  Brown,  James  Bush,  Jr.,  Rodney  S. 
Chase,  George  E.  Comstock,  John  R.  Corf,  Truman  S.  Dayton, 
Donald  A.  Ferguson,  Alpheus  M.  Farnsworth,  David  L.  Hall,  Joseph 
H.  Johnson,  Jr.,  M.  Daniel  Lacedonia,  Calvin  F.  Long,  James  H. 
Maloney,  Jr.,  Frederick  W.  Marvin,  Stanley  W.  Morris,  Norman  W. 
Padden,  Edward  A.  Pendleton,  William  R.  Potter,  Albert  H. 
Rawdon,  Jr.,  Richard  L.  Rodier,  Frank  E.  Schenk,  Carl  F.  Simon, 
Jr.,  J.  Larry  Stewart,  Roland  W.  lire,  Jr.,  Sherwood  S.  Vermilya, 
Davis  S.  Watson,  Charles  F.  Whitcomb,  Malcolm  K.  White,  Wilmer 
R.  Willard. 

1946B        111  Members  24  Contributors  22% 

Theodore    A.    Balaska,    Regis   E.    Breault,   Charles   D.    Cummings, 


James  R.  Davis,  Donald  L.  DeLand,  John  P.  Gagliardo,  Howard  L. 
Gelin,  Garabed  Hovanesian,  Foster  Jacobs,  Wilbur  C.  Jones,  Alan 
Kennedy,  Vincent  M.  LaSorsa,  Harry  J.  Mehrer,  Jr.,  George  F. 
Meyer,  Jr.,  Peter  B.  Myers,  Hazen  H.  Nault,  Julius  A.  Palley, 
Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr.,  John  E.  Runninger,  Donald  A.  Soorian, 
James  L.  Sullivan,  Delbert  E.  Watson,  John  L.  Wilki,  Jr. 


1946C        12  Members 

John  E.  Wilson 

1946D        56  Members 


1  Contributor 


17  Contributors 


8% 


30% 


George  Button,  II,  Leslie  Flood,  Walter  J.  Grimala,  Joseph  J. 
Hearne,  William  P.  Jaegle,  John  E.  Laffey,  John  Lee,  Joseph  P. 
Manna,  Frank  L.  Mazzone,  Peter  M.  McKinley,  John  C.  Meade, 
Richard  F.  Propst,  Manuel  Renasco,  Elmer  S.  Sachse,  George  W. 
Schott,  Robert  C.  Taylor,  Adelbert  W.  Whitman,  David  J.  Wright. 


1947 


75  Members 


24  Contributors 


32% 


Robert  E.  Begley,  Henry  J.  Bove,  Morrel  H.  Cohen,  Wilfred  L. 
DeRocher,  Jr.,  John  E.  Elley,  Leo  W.  F.  Geary,  A  Han  Glazer,  John 
P.  Harding,  Jr.,  Daniel  W.  Knoll,  Raymond  J.  LaFerriere,  Robert  C. 
Mark,  Guy  H.  Nichols,  Paul  D.  O'Donnell,  William  J.  Rice,  Samuel 
Ringel,  Walter  A.  Skers,  Russell  M.  Smith,  Edward  T.  Swierz, 
Donald  B.  Thompson,  Kenneth  H.  Truesdell,  Milford  R.  Van  Dusen, 
Roger  B.  Williams,  Jr.,  William  A.  Williams,  Vincent  A.  Zike. 


1948 


182  Members 


65  Contributors 


36% 


George  W.  Allen,  Paul  T.  Anderson,  David  L.  Anthony,  Robert  E. 
Beauregard,  William  A.  Beers,  Samuel  W.  Cocks,  William  D. 
Coulopoulos,  Norman  L.  Diegoli,  F.  Robert  Dieterle,  William  S. 
Dorman,  Edmund  J.  Eager,  Willard  E.  Estey,  Paul  E.  Evans, 
Robert  G.  Ferguson,  Niel  I.  Fishman,  Donald  E.  Flohr,  Frederick  A. 
Gammans,  Albert  S.  Goldberg,  George  Goshgarian,  Robert  A. 
Green,  Harold  B.  Guerci,  Sameer  S.  Hassan,  Carl  P.  Hershfield, 
Thomas  D.  Hess,  Lawrence  F.  Hine,  Frank  S.  Holby,  Richard  K. 
Home,  Robert  H.  Houghton,  Gordon  F.  Keller,  Arne  A.  Kellstrom, 
Russell  H.  Krackhardt,  Francis  X.  Lambert,  Lynwood  W.  Lentell, 
Robert  M.  Lerner,  Charles  L.  Loveridge,  Jr.,  James  G.  McKernan, 
William  E.  Meadowcroft.  Albert  J.  Merlini,  Allen  M.  Mintz,  Arthur 
T.  Moroni,  Richard  W.  Morse,  Charles  Mouradian,  James  M. 
Mullarkey,  Robert  E.  Nowell,  Norman  R.  Olson,  Arthur  L.  Pike, 
Clark  L.  Poland,  Edward  J.  Powers,  Charles  D.  Rehrig,  Alan  K. 
Riedel,  Albert  E.  Riley,  Edmund  J.  Salate,  Grant  W.  Schleich, 
Kenneth  E.  Scott,  Wayne  A.  Shafer,  Jr.,  Joseph  P.  Sheehan, 
Daniel  H.  Sheingold,  Bernard  Siegel,  Sturgis  A.  Sobin,  Albert  H. 
Soloway,  Prescott  A.  Stevens,  Alfred  C.  Syiek,  Richard  L.  Tracy, 
Irwin  T.  Vanderhoof,  George  J.  Zewski, 


1949 


240  Members 


94  Contributors 


39% 


James  S.  Adams,  Charles  C.  Allen,  Walter  D.  Allen,  Chester  L. 
Anderson,  Jr.,  Matthew  M.  Babinski,  Robert  A.  Bareiss,  Paul  H. 
Beaudry,  Walter  L.  Beckwith,  Jr.,  Karl  R.  Berggren,  Jr.,  Francis  J. 
Bigda,  Gordon  S.  Brandes,  Lawrence  C.  Brautigam,  Fred  J.  Brennan, 
Jr.,  Richard  W.  Brown,  Philip  G.  Buffinton,  Thomas  R.  Carlin, 
Walter  J.  Charow,  Thomas  J.  Coonan,  III,  Norman  E.  Cotnoir, 
Richard  J.  Coughlin,  Neal  W.  Cox,  Earl  R.  Cruff,  Peter  J.  Dalton, 
Jr.,  Wellen  G.  Davison,  Walter  G.  Dick,  Paul  R.  Dulong,  Gordon  G. 
Duncan,  Franklin  P.  Emerson,  Samuel  E.  Franc,  Jr.,  Malcolm  E. 
Person,  James  R.  Fitzgerald,  Orlando  W.  Foss,  Jr.,  James  M.  Genser, 
Gerald  H.  Gleason,  David  Goldstein,  Robert  N.  Gowing,  J.  George 
Gregory,  Albert  Hardaker,  George  K.  Howe,  William  A.  Jacques, 
Peter  A.  Kahn,  Peter  Kalil,  Roger  K.  Kane,  Robert  T.  Kesseli, 
C.   Theodore    Layton,   Elzear  J.   Lemieux,  Alfred   L.    Letourneau, 


THE   JOURNAL 


25 


Daniel  L.  Lintz,  John  I.  Logan,  Lester  H.  Longton,  Jr.,  Edward  A. 
Luiz,  Sidney  Madwed,  Daniel  L.  McQuillan,  Robert  E.  Miller,  Jr., 
Henry  G.  Mogensen,  Jr.,  Harry  H.  Mochon,  Jr.,  John  K.  Mullaney, 
Henry  J.  Oletz,  Jr.,  James  F.  O'Regan,  Harvey  L.  Pastan,  Albin  O. 
Pearson,  Hans  E.  Picard,  Murad  S.  Piligian,  William  J.  Ploran,  Mack 
J.  Prince,  Robert  K.  Quattrochi,  Edward  W.  Randall,  Raymond  J. 
Remillard,  Hugh  M.  Robinson,  Robert  A.  Rowse,  Ellsworth  M. 
Sammet,  Donald  R.  Sanders,  Charles  M.  Selwitz,  Arthur  J.  Sherman, 
Jr.,  Abraham  W.  Siff,  Donald  R.  Skeffington,  Carrol  G.  Smith, 
Jeremy  W.  Smith,  Stephen  J.  Spencer,  Joseph  T.  Starr,  Alfred 
Strogoff,  Haig  E.  Tashjian,  Donald  Taylor,  Howard  C.  Tinkham, 
Samuel  E.  Torrey,  Stephen  J.  Ucich,  Max  E.  Underwood,  Harvey  E. 
Vigneault,  Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr.,  Donald  G.  Weikman,  John  J. 
Wheeler,  John  H.  Williams,  James  D.  Wilson,  Joseph  R.  Winslow. 


1952 


173  Members 


54  Contributors 


31% 


1950 


212  Members 


72  Contributors 


34% 


Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr.,  Norman  E.  Baker,  George  S.  Barna,  Jr., 
Arthur  O.  Bouvier,  Jr.,  Willard  L.  Bowen,  III,  John  F.  Brierly, 
Paul  J.  Brown,  John  P.  Burgarella,  Richard  H.  Carlson,  Edgar  B. 
Carpenter,  William  ft  Carpenter,  Harvey  W.  Carrier,  Everett  S. 
Child,  Jr.,  John  T.  Cocker,  Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr.,  Henry  S.  C. 
Cummings,  Jr.,  Donald  E.  Deming,  Donald  W.  Dodge,  George  E. 
Edwards,  Stanley  Friedman,  Donald  W.  Giles,  Irwin  L.  Goodchild, 
Jr.,  Fred  W.  Grant,  Jr.,  William  C.  Griggs,  R.  Reed  Grimwade, 
Robert  J.  Hallisey,  Earle  A.  N.  Hallstrom,  Frank  W.  Harding,  III, 
Daniel  J.  Harrington,  Jr.,  Bartlett  H.  Hastings,  Richard  E.  Hathaway, 
Robert  P.  Hayward,  Sumner  W.  Herman,  Alan  F.  Howe,  David  J. 
Hudson,  Richard  N.  Jones,  Arthur  W.  Joyce,  Jr.,  Edmond  H.  Judd, 
Francis  E.  Kearney,  Schuyler  T.  B.  Keating,  Christy  D.  Lambert, 
Robert  B.  LaRocque,  Stuart  G.  Leonard,  Jr.,  John  C.  Margo,  Jr., 
Paul  D.  May,  Norman  B.  Maynard,  Robert  L.  Moison,  Kenneth  F. 
Muccino,  Robert  D.  Murdock,  Edmund  L.  Nichols,  Helge  V. 
Nordstrom,  Paul  D.  Nyquist,  Robert  A.  Padgett,  Charles  O. 
Parnagian,  John  M.  Percival,  Robert  C.  Proctor,  Jr.,  Lester  J. 
Reynolds,  Jr.,  Henry  J.  Richard,  Eli  S.  Sanderson,  Walter  C. 
Scanlon,  Paul  F.  Siebold,  John  C.  Slonczewski,  Robert  E.  Smith, 
Robert  F.  Stewart,  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  Edmond  T.  Suydam, 
Edward  J.  Sydor,  John  R.  Taylor,  Donald  W.  Thompson,  Joseph  R. 
Toegemann,  Robert  J.  VanAmburgh,  Russell  W.  Waldo,  William  D. 
Young. 


1951 


193  Members 


74  Contributors 


38% 


Warner  S.  Adams,  Andrew  C.  Andersen,  G.  Albert  Anderson,  Walter 
R.  Anderson,  Ralph  W.  Auerbach,  Jr.,  Bruce  M.  Bailey,  William  T. 
Baker,  Leon  H.  Bassett,  Martin  G.  Bromberg,  Ashton  B.  Brown, 
Robert  A.  Busch,  Robert  N.  Cochran,  Richard  A.  Coffey,  Donald  J. 
Corey,  William  J.  Cunneen,  Charles  G.  Darrell,  William  F.  Dewey, 
Jr.,  H.  Stuart  Dodge,  Walter  A.  Finneran,  Arthur  L.  Fisher,  Rafael 
R.  Gabarro,  John  C.  George,  Gary  Geissler,  Arthur  H.  Gerald,  Jr., 
Halsey  E.  Griswold,  Peter  Groop,  Aime  J.  Grenier,  William  H. 
Hasten,  Jr.,  Bradford  F.  Hawley,  Richard  E.  Howard,  Harvey  L. 
Howell,  Carl  E.  Johnson,  Edward  A.  Kacmarcik,  Sidney  Kessler, 
Elliott  M.  Krackhardt,  Leo  E.  Lemere,  Jr.,  Donald  C.  Lewis, 
Edward  L.  Lewis,  William  M.  Lloyd.  II,  Albert  H.  Lorentzen, 
Robert  M.  Luce,  Carl  J.  Luz,  Jr.,  Frank  A.  MacPherson,  William  E. 
Mansfield,  John  Marley,  Kenneth  E.  Mayo,  Thomas  A.  McComiskey, 
William  J.  McNeil,  Theodore  A.  Mellor,  Philip  D.  Michelman, 
Charles  F.  Mulrenan,  Duncan  W.  Munro,  Edwin  H.  Nahikian,  Roy 
H.  Olson,  Owen  Ott,  Alton  L.  Penniman,  Charles  C.  Peirce,  John  L. 
Reid,  James  E.  Rich,  Robert  W.  Ripley.  Jr.,  Robert  W.  Rodier, 
Donald  E.  Sands,  Kurt  A.  Schneider,  Lawrence  F.  Scinto,  Vartkes 
Sohigian,  A.  William  Spencer,  Merrill  E.  Spiller,  Jr.,  Anthony  B. 
Stefanov,  Donald  F.  Stockwell,  Roger  W.  Swanson,  Dick  van  den 
Berge,  Alfred  J.  Wheeler,  Donald  K.  White,  Donald  A.  Wimble, 
Robert   C.    Wolff. 


Donald  H.  Adams,  Everett  E.  Bagley,  Robert  E.  Baker,  Richard  G. 
Bennett,  Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz,  Richard  C.  Boutiette,  Albert  N. 
Brauer,  Charles  F.  Crathern,  III,  Richard  K.  Davenport,  John  W. 
Diachenko,  Monroe  M.  Dickinson,  Jr.,  George  F.  East,  Michael  J. 
Essex,  Jr.,  David  R.  Fairbanks,  John  E.  Feldsine,  Jr.,  Ray  N.  Fenno, 
Alan  S.  Foss,  Richard  Gillette,  Stuart  R.  Hathaway,  Edward  A. 
Hjerpe,  Jr.,  Walter  F.  Jaros,  Jr.,  George  Jeas,  Joseph  Jiunnies, 
Robert  D.  Johnson,  Donald  M.  Krauss,  David  A.  Kujala,  Kenneth  T. 
Lang,  Elliott  W.  Lewis,  Sueloong  P.  Li,  Joseph  D.  Lojewski,  Leo  0. 
Lutz,  Edmund  M.  Luzgauskas,  Edmund  Majewski,  John  M.  Mal- 
janian,  Robert  A.  Meyer,  Philip  J.  O'Connor,  Everett  B.  Palmer, 
Charles  F.  Reichert,  Warren  W.  Root,  Walter  H.  Rothman,  Allan  J. 
Rowe,  Stuart  B.  Rowe,  Jr.,  Roland  R.  St.  Louis,  Henry  Shapiro, 
F.  Patterson  Smith,  Charles  W.  Thrower,  Charles  P.  Toscano,  John 
M.  Tracy,  Alden  F.  Tucker,  Robert  F.  Turek,  Edgar  L.  Van  Cott, 
George  F.  Whittle,  Richard  B.  Will,  Gordon  C.  Willard,  Donald  B. 
Youngdahl. 


1953 


176  Members 


55  Contributors 


31% 


Stephen  J.  Abrams,  John  E.  Allen,  Jr.,  Conrad  M.  Banas,  David  E. 
Beach,  Robert  E.  Behringer,  John  R.  Black,  Henry  J.  Camosse, 
Richard  R.  Carlson,  Robert  E.  Chiabrandy,  Carleton  C.  Comins, 
Richard  A.  Davis,  Charles  O.  Dechand,  Ralph  J.  DiGiovanni,  David 
M.  Elovitz,  Willard  R.  Ernst,  Charles  D.  Flanagan,  John  E.  Flynn, 
Kendall  F.  Forsberg,  George  A.  Garrison,  Kenneth  E.  Haaland, 
Richard  J.  Hall,  David  B.  Hallock,  Sidney  R.  Harvey,  David  B. 
Hathaway,  Michael  N.  Hoechstetter,  Joseph  A.  Holmes,  Charles  E. 
Home,  David  S.  Jenney,  Philip  J.  Kaminsky,  Walter  B.  Lueft, 
Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  Christopher  F.  Martin,  Orren  B.  McKnight, 
William  G.  Mears,  Robert  J.  Menard,  John  P.  Morrill,  Thomas  P. 
O'Connor,  Raymond  L.  Peterson,  G.  Raymond  Polen,  Frederick  A. 
Rauppius,  Thomas  H.  Rothwell,  Eugene  L.  Rubin,  Anthony  J. 
Ruksnaitis,  Leo  A.  Salmen,  George  E.  Saltus,  Kenneth  W.  Shiatte, 
Philip  E.  Simon,  Jr.,  Paul  W.  Snyder,  Jr.,  Hubert  G.  Stanton,  Jr., 
Henry  L.  Sundberg,  Jr.,  Donald  W.  Sundstrom,  David  T.  Van 
Covern,  William  M.  Walsh,  Robert  C.  Woodward,  Michael  S.  Zucker. 


1954 


144  Members 


45  Contributors 


31% 


Paul  R.  Alasso.  Owen  F.  Allen,  Gregory  P.  Arvantely,  Harry  F. 
Chapell,  Allan  J.  Costantin,  Walter  H.  Dziura,  Joseph  J.  Fratino, 
Francis  J.  Gamari,  David  F.  Gilbert,  George  A.  Gingras,  Carl  A. 
Hammar,  Leigh  H.  Hickcox,  William  H.  Hills,  Adrian  J.  Horovitz, 
George  Idlis,  Souren  Jaffarian,  Jr.,  Jaak  Jurison,  George  H.  Kay,  Jr., 
Abdul  H.  Kazi,  Thomas  C.  Kee,  Jerome  W.  Kilburne,  King  D.  Killin, 
Richard  D.  Kirk,  Walter  J.  Kirk,  Gary  A.  Kunkel,  Richard  W. 
Lindquist,  S.  Paul  London,  Russell  R.  Lussier,  Douglas  B.  MacLaren, 
John  F.  Malloy,  Jr.,  Forrest  E.  Marcy,  Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr.,  Arthur 
E.  Nichols,  Jr.,  James  J.  O'Connor,  Jr.,  Fabian  Pinkham,  Richard  D. 
Popp,  Walter  A.  Reibling,  Donald  E.  Ross,  William  Schoenemann, 
Richard  B.  Scott,  William  A.  Seubert,  Edwin  Shivell.  Ill,  Walter  M. 
Stewart,  Otto  A.  Wahlrab,  Howard  P.  Whittle. 


1955 


134  Members 


40  Contributors 


30% 


Gerald  R.  Backlund,  Roger  F.  Bardwell,  Harry  S.  Barton,  Jr.,  Hugh 
C.  Bell,  Earl  M.  Bloom,  Jr.,  Philip  A.  Bourdon,  Edouard  S.  P. 
Bouvier,  Gedney  B.  Brown,  Paul  W.  Brown,  Jr.,  Richard  C. 
Butterworth,  Edward  M.  Cahill,  Dean  M.  Carlson,  Robert  L.  Chang, 
David  S.  Dayton,  Lawrence  F.  Dennis,  Alan  W.  Ede,  Louis 
Gaumond,  Daniel  A.  Grant,  Jr.,  Robert  W.  Holden,  Peter  H. 
Horstmann,  Robert  A.  Junior,  Norman  M.  Lawrence,  Richard  J. 
Lucey,  James  S.  Mathews,  Charles  F.  McDonough,  Donald  M. 
McNamara,    Ralph    K.   Mongoen,  Jr.,   Peter  S.   Morgan,   Edwin  F. 


26 


THE    JOURNAL 


Nesman,  Robert  E.  Olson,  Robert  H.  Pearce,  Alan  F.  Petit,  Walter 
B.  Power,  III,  Reynald  J.  Sansoucy,  Harold  S.  Sauer,  Robert  J. 
Schultz,  Henry  F.  Spadoni,  Jr.,  Allan  R.  Twitchell,  Charles  F. 
Walters,  Gordon  E.  Walters,  John  W.  Welsh. 


1959 


255  Members 


62  Contributors 


24% 


1956 


152  Members 


44  Contributors 


29% 


Joseph  J.  Alekshun,  Jr.,  Christian  S.  Baechrecke,  Howard  H.  Brown, 
John  F.  Burns,  Lebbeus  S.  Case,  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  Christopher 
ft  Collins.  Bernard  R.  Danti,  Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr.,  James  L.  Forand, 
James  W.  Green,  Charles  E.  Gunn,  Raymond  R.  Hagglund,  Arnold 
M.  Hall,  Charles  R.  Healy,  Robert  R.  Heath,  Allan  ft  Hunderup, 
John  L.  Hyde,  II,  William  A.  Johnson,  William  F.  Jordan,  Jr.,  Arthur 
G.  Kennard,  Robert  E.  Kleid,  Hans  H.  KoehJ,  William  E.  Lloyd, 
Fred  H.  Lohrey,  Raymond  J.  Lussier,  George  Marks,  Robert  W. 
Matchett,  Richard  J.  McBride,  John  M.  McHugh,  Robert  E.  Wlulno, 
Henry  W.  Nowick,  Eric  Ostergaard,  Albert  Palmero,  David  A.  Pratt, 
Robert  Robinson,  Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker, 
Irwin  J.  Smith,  III,  George  P.  Strom,  Roger  H.  Tancrell,  Harry  W. 
Tenney,  Jr.,  Robert  V.  Vieraitis,  Thomas  O.  Wright,  John  A. 
Taylor. 


1957 


209  Members 


61  Contributors 


29% 


Crosby  L.  Adams,  Edwin  R.  Ahlstrom,  Neil  W.  Armstrong,  John  H. 
Atchison,  Jr.,  Leland  H.  Baker,  Jr.,  Richard  A.  Barlow,  Alfred  E. 
Barry,  Robert  H.  Beckett,  Anthony  C.  Berg,  Donald  F.  Berth, 
Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Louis  A.  Blanchard,  John  W.  Braley,  Jr.,  James 
H.  Brigham,  John  L.  Buzzi,  Fred  H.  Clark,  Jr.,  James  R.  Clarke,  III, 
Irving  R.  Darwin,  Edward  W.  Eidt,  Adi  Eisenberg,  Richard  J. 
Ferguson,  George  E.  Friberg,  Seymour  L.  Friedman,  Ronald  S. 
Fuller,  Frank  Furman,  Robert  F.  Galligan,  Edward  L.  Gallini, 
Donald  D.  Girard,  Richard  P.  Johnson,  John  M.  Hoban,  David  W. 
Hoskinson,  John  F.  Howe,  Jr.,  Leonard  L.  Krasnow,  Alvin  C. 
Lanson,  Thomas  C.  Lekas,  Roger  E.  Leroux,  George  H.  Long,  Jr., 
George  W.  Matarrese,  Anthony  A.  Matulaitis,  Jr.,  Frederick  P. 
Mertens,  John  D.  Minott,  Edward  J.  Moineau,  Richard  F.  Moore, 
Leon  A.  Morgan,  Daniel  J.  Murphy,  David  N.  Olson,  Alex  C. 
Papaioannou,  Collins  M.  Pomeroy,  William  W.  Rawstron,  James 
Richards,  Ronald  A.  Samiljan,  Herbert  C.  Stohr,  Alvin  E.  Tanner, 
Leo  R.  Toomajian,  Jr.,  Spiro  L.  Vrusho,  Joseph  J.  Weber,  D.  Carl 
Webster,  Robert  P.  Weis,  Charles  A  Whitney,  Ronald  Wilson, 
Robert   A.    Yates. 


1958 


218  Members 


60  Contributors 


28% 


Harvey  A.  Berger,  Robert  J.  Boyea,  Christopher  Brayton,  Donald  J. 
Butterworth,  Bernard  M.  Campbell,  Jr.,  Frederic  Cossick,  Paul 
Dalton,  T.  Roger  Danielson,  John  E.  Darling,  Francis  D.  DeFalco, 
James  S.  Demetry,  David  B.  Denniston,  Peter  C.  Dirksen,  Jr., 
Larry  Dworkin,  Edward  C.  Fraser,  Philip  M.  French,  Jr.,  Thayer  A. 
French,  Michael  M.  Galbraith,  William  F.  Gess,  Jr.,  Donald  R. 
Grenon,  Gary  B.  Gulbranson,  Michael  S.  Gutman,  Richard  A. 
Hammond,  Donald  B.  Hayward,  William  H.  Hopf,  Roger  A. 
Jolicoeur,  Perry  E.  Joslin,  Ronald  D.  Kangas.  James  K.  Karalekas, 
Sheldon  R.  Kesslen,  Marian  C.  Knight,  Bertrand  J.  Lemieux, 
Philip  C.  Lenz,  Jr.,  Fred  M.  Levin,  William  ft  McLeod,  Jr., 
Robert  A.  Moore,  Michael  P.  Mullo,  William  J.  O'Neil,  Peter  J. 
Ottowitz,  Roy  A.  Pearson,  Jr.,  Sherman  K.  Poultney,  Howard  B. 
Pritz,  Marwood  E.  Rand,  Joaquim  Ribeiro,  Bernard  V.  Ricciardi, 
Harvey  M.  Robbin,  Harvey  G.  Roberts,  Joseph  R.  Russo,  William  P. 
Segulin,  Robert  C.  Simmonds,  Jr.,  Bruce  B.  Storms,  Norman  P. 
Stotz,  Robert  B.  Sundheim,  Norman  J.  Taupeka,  Robert  W. 
Thornton,  Paul  R.  Vilandre,  Robert  W.  Weinberg,  Robert  F.  Wolff, 
Jr.,  Peter  J.  Zanini,  Jr.,  William  F.  Zavatkay. 


Robert  A.  Allen,  Mohammed  Amin,  William  H.  Bailey,  Robert  A. 
Berg,  Peter  K.  Bertsch,  John  D.  Bonk,  Richard  L.  Bratt,  John  H. 
Britt,  Jr.,  V.  James  Cinquina,  Jr.,  Armand  E.  Clputier,  Lee  H. 
Courtemanche,  William  F.  Curran,  Richard  E.  Dehais,  A.  David 
Dickert,  Thomas  J.  Downs,  David  A.  Evensen,  F.  William  Farns- 
worth,  Carl  M.  Frova,  Walter  M.  Gasek,  Richard  N.  Gustafson, 
Bradford  J.  Harper,  William  C.  Hees,  Thomas  J.  Hill,  Robert  W. 
Hoag,  Paul  V.  Kearney,  Robert  Kieltyka,  Donald  E.  Kirk,  Roger  W. 
Kuenzel,  Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr.,  Robert  H.  Lynn,  Norman  Mahler, 
Robert  B.  Massad,  Matthew  C.  Matzkin,  John  A.  McManus,  Ronald 
L.  Merrill,  David  S.  Miller,  Roger  E.  Miller,  Peter  A.  Nelson,  Arthur 
Olsen,  Jr.,  Richard  S.  Orehotsky,  Philip  H.  Peirce,  Roger  A. 
Pekrul,  Alexander  L.  Pratt,  Robert  L.  Price,  Philip  H.  Puddington, 
William  U.  Pursell,  Jr.,  Frederick  W.  Reinhart,  Donald  J.  Richards, 
George  P.  Rizzi,  Richard  J.  Ronskavitz,  Edward  A.  Saulnier,  Jr., 
Robert  D.  Smith,  Stanley  W.  Sokoloff,  Malcolm  G.  Stearns,  Ronald 
F.  Swenson,  Alexander  Swetz,  Jr.,  Edwin  D.  Tenney,  Raymond  J. 
Tivnan,  James  P.  Torrant,  Joseph  B.  Vivona,  Winthrop  H.  Wassenar, 
James  J.   Walsh,   John   L.  Wheeler,  John  E.   Wolfe,  Neil  T.  Burke. 


1960 


224  Members 


73  Contributors 


33% 


Raymond  P.  Abraham,  Mark  H.  Abramowitz,  Paul  A.  Allaire, 
William  M.  Aitken,  Ernest  W.  Arnold,  Jr.,  Febo  Bartoli,  Paul  W. 
Bayliss,  John  W.  Biddle,  William  K.  Bonta,  Ronald  A.  Carlson, 
Robert  A.  Chechile,  Lawrence  J.  Cohen,  Dwight  M.  Cornell, 
George  DeVries,  Harry  F.  DiZoglio,  Carleton  D.  Driscoll,  Cornelius 
J.  Enright,  Jr.,  Douglas  0.  Farrand,  Russell  A.  Fransen,  Manuel 
Ganz,  David  R.  Geoffroy,  Jerry  B.  Gibbs,  Robert  W.  Goodfader, 
Paul  R.  Gould,  Kenneth  B.  Halvorsen,  Richard  P.  Harding,  Eric  A. 
Hauptmann,  W  Kenneth  Hildick,  David  A.  Johnson,  Carl  H. 
Karlsson,  Robert  F.  Kasprow,  Francis  J.  Kaszynski,  Jr.,  Paul  W. 
Kendra,  Jr.,  William  A.  Kerr,  Peter  A.  Lajoie,  Sang  Ki  Lee,  Richard 
A.  Loring,  Leonard  G.  Marcotte,  Alfred  P.  Materas,  Jr.,  Kenneth  L. 
Matson,  Robert  J.  Mercer,  Richard  S.  Meyer,  James  P.  Modrak, 
Benjamin  B.  Morgan,  Darek  S.  Morris,  Robert  B.  Mulholland,  Jr., 
Warren  T.  Munroe,  William  R.  Nimee,  Philip  R.  Pastore,  Jr., 
Ronald  R.  Pokraka,  Edward  J.  Powers,  Jr.,  Alan  T.  Reed,  Stuart  P. 
Roberts,  Edward  J.  Russell,  George  J.  Schoen,  Howard  A.  Sholl, 
Bruce  E.  Schoppe,  Bernard  J.  Seastrom,  Franklin  Siegel,  Fred  S. 
Snively,  Robert  A.  St.  Jean,  John  £  Stauffer,  Paul  B.  Stewart, 
H.  David  Sutton,  Warren  J.  Talbot,  James  F.  Teixeira,  Francis  G. 
Toce,  David  J.  Welch,  Bruce  G.  Willbrant,  George  G.  Wilson, 
Francis  B.  Wisnowski,  Peter  S.  Zilko,  Joshua  C.  Alpern. 


1961 


284  Members 


71  Contributors 


25% 


Richard  S.  Adler,  Edward  A.  Altieri,  Andrew  M.  Beaudoin,  William 
Calder,  III,  Nicholas  A.  Caputo,  David  P.  Carlson,  Thomas  K.  Caste, 
Harold  A.  Christopher,  Robert  B.  Davis,  Ronald  J.  Dellaripa, 
Ronald  W.  Dufries,  James  M.  Dunn,  Alfred  L.  Dunklee,  Michael  V. 
Economou,  Kenneth  ft  Engvall,  David  F.  Finlayson,  Robert  M. 
Fitch,  George  F.  Foxhall,  Ralph  F.  Guertin,  Robert  ft  Hale,  John 
H.  Herron,  Bradley  E.  Hosmer,  Richard  B.  Hosmer,  Lawrence  L. 
Israel,  Asjed  A.  Jalil,  John  W.  Johnson,  Walter  H.  Johnson,  Stuart 
C.  Kazin,  Richard  P.  Kosky,  Arthur  W.  Kroll,  Richard  G.  Ledoux, 
Roger  R.  Lesieur,  Richard  A.  Levendusky,  William  A.  F.  Maertens, 
Paul  A.  L.  Mannheim,  John  A.  Matley,  Conrad  F.  Matuzek, 
Charles  W.  Mello,  Frederick  T.  O'Brien,  John  J.  O'Meara,  Gordon 
M.  Parker,  Kenneth  I.  Parker,  Edwin  M.  Peacock,  Jr.,  Walter  E. 
Pillartz,  Jr.,  Thomas  E.  Postma,  David  W.  Prosser,  Donald  C.  Root, 
Alan  C.  Roseen,  Sheldon  W.  Rothstein,  Pierce  E.  Rowe,  A.  Craig 
Rowley,  Merrill  Rutman,  Donald  L.  Sangster,  Donald  J.  Schulz, 
Robert  E.  Seamon,  Allan  P.  Sherman,  Ralph  F.  Smith,  III,  Peter  J. 
Sugda,  Edward  A.  Sundburg,  Jr.,  Richard  E.  Taylor,  Wayne  L. 
Taylor,   James   M.   Tolos,   Kenneth   J.   Virkus,   Richard   H.   Vogel, 


HE  JOURNAL 


27 


Ronald  C.  Ward,  Robert  H.  Whyte,  W.  Dana  Wilcock,  Charles  E. 
Wilkes,  Stanley  L.  Wilson,  Bruce  W.  Woodford,  Joseph  N.  Wrubel, 
Rimas  A.  Zinas,  Richard  H.  Nelson. 


1962 


242  Members 


52  Contributors 


21% 


M.  Earl  Adams,  Jr.,  Walter  B.  Ambler,  Ronald  F.  Baruzzi,  Daniel  J. 
Brosnihan,  III,  William  A.  Brutsch,  Robert  R.  Cassanelli,  Robert  A. 
Cawood,  Robert  W.  Chapin,  Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr.,  Nicholas 
Cotsidas,  Michael  A.  Davis,  Richard  J.  DiBuono,  Arthur  E. 
Dobreski,  Bruce  W.  Dudley,  Victor  P.  Dufault,  Robert  A.  Eddy, 
Clifford  G.  Engstrom,  Paul  E.  Engstrom,  Jacob  N.  Erlich,  Alfred 
Ferron,  James  L.  Forand,  Jr.,  George  H.  Forsberg,  Joel  N. 
Freedman,  Ronald  C.  Gagne,  David  L.  Goodman,  John  J.  Grocki, 
Lewis  W.  Huntoon,  Neil  J.  Jorgensen,  John  E.  Lukens,  David  A. 
Luoma,  Frank  J.  Maher,  James  H.  Mayer,  Bernard  J.  Meister,  Ray  S. 
Messenger,  Richard  J.  Newton,  Brian  J.  O'Connell,  Robert  A.  Olson, 
Alfred  B.  Orr,  Peter  A.  Parrino,  Thomas  E.  Quinn,  Harry  T. 
Rapelje,  Donald  F.  Sanger,  Paul  A.  Sharon,  David  K.  Smith,  John  M. 
Szymanski,  Thomas  J.  Tully,  Myron  R.  Waldman,  Stanley  M. 
Wilbur,  Richard  P.  Williamson,  Raymond  B.  Wilson,  Jr..  Stephen  E. 
Winer,  Robert  H.   York,  Gerald  Zamost, 


1963 


242  Members 


59  Contributors 


24% 


Raymond  M.  Akerson,  Jr.,  Richard  L.  Ailing,  Alfred  H.  Barrett, 
Joseph  V.  Beaulac,  Charles  M.  Beck,  II,  Robert  D.  Behn,  Carleton 
W.  Borden,  Jr.,  David  P.  Bova,  Joseph  V.  Bucciaglia,  W.  James 
Budzyna,  Donald  L.  Chaffee,  Allen  S.  Dale,  Joseph  R.  de  Beaumont, 
Richard  T.  Dann,  Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr.,  David  Dunklee,  Jr., 
Norman  Fineberg,  Roger  D.  Flood,  Earl  T.  Fratus,  Lee  J. 
Globerson,  Arthur  E.  Goddard,  II,  Willard  W.  Goodwin,  Jr.,  Robert 
H.  Gowdy,  Dennis  W.  Heath,  Allen  H.  Hoffman,  George  B.  Hunt, 
Richard  A.  lacobucci,  Robert  D.  Ingle,  Robert  D.  Jamaitis,  Jay 
Kaminsky,  William  G.  Kanabis,  James  M.  Kelly,  Jr.,  Francis  E. 
Kennedy,  Jr.,  Chi-Ming  Li,  W.  Allan  Lilius,  Daniel  J.  Lizdas,  Robert 
M.  Malbon,  Richard  C.  Marcy,  Howard  I.  McDevitt,  Jr.,  Roger  C. 
McGee,  Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr.,  Philip  A.  Morrissette,  Stephen  P. 
Mozden,  Jr.,  Robert  E.  Murphy,  David  R.  Nordin,  Peter  Y.  L.  Ong, 
Daniel  J.  Pender,  Russell  E.  Person,  John  P.  Pisinski,  Edward  J. 
Polewarczyk,  Frederic  D.  Riley,  Stanley  P.  Skola,  Jr.,  John  P. 
Slovak,  Jr.,  Joseph  P.  Stakun,  Warren  R.  Standley,  Kendal  B. 
Turner,  Paul  W.   Ulcickas,  George  P.  Vittas,  Allan  R.  Whittum. 


1964 


285  Members 


43  Contributors 


15% 


Robert  P.  Allison,  Peter  Baker,  Anthony  W.  Bantly,  Stuart  P. 
Bowen,  William  A.  Cote,  Peter  L.  Dornemann,  Raymond  G.  Dube, 
Walter  B.  Fohlin,  James  E.  Gaffney,  Bradley  T.  Gale,  Daniel  F. 
Gorman,  Manmohan  S.  Gill,  Stephen  A.  Harvey,  Larry  G.  Hull, 
William  S.  Ingalls,  Jr.,  Raymond  G.  Johnson,  Jr.,  Paul  J.  Keating, 
Wayne  H.  Keene,  Daniel  S.  King,  M.  Stephen  Lajoie,  Jean  B. 
Letendre,  Frank  A.  Marafioti,  Steven  D.  Mittleman,  Harold  E. 
Monde,  Jr.,  Robert  H.  Morse,  William  J.  Museler,  Robert  W.  Palmer, 
Robert  E.  Parker,  William  R.  Phillips,  Alfred  P.  Potvin,  Robert 
Rounds,  Jr.,  John  H.  Schmidt,  William  S.  Shurbet,  Maurice  R. 
Silvestris,  George  V.  Spires,  III,  David  T.  Stone,  Stanley  Szymanski, 
S.  William  Wandle,  Jr.,  James  C.  Ward,  Jr.,  Paul  B.  Watson,  Brian  A. 
Wells,  Elliot  F.  Wyner. 


1965 


305  Members 


48  Contributors 


16% 


John  T.  Apostolos,  Alexander  B.  Campbell.  II.  Donald  C.  Carlson, 
Robert  E.  Cavallaro,  Stephen  L.  Cloues,  David  B.  Cooley,  James  A. 
Day,  Robert  B.  Edwards,  Maheshchandra  S.  Dikshit,  John  E.  Flynn. 
Harry  S.  Forrest,  Richard  Fortier,  William  D.  Galeback,  Philip  D 
Giantris,  Ronald  G.  Greene,  Peter  A.  Heibeck,  Walter  E.  Henry,  Jr., 


J.  Kirby  Holcombe,  Kenneth  J.  Hultgren,  Donald  P.  Johnson,  John 
J.  Josti,  Richard  B.  Kennedy,  Stephen  N.  Kimani,  Robert  D. 
Klauber,  David  B.  Luber,  Peter  E.  McCormick,  Patrick  T.  Moran, 
Philip  C.  Nyberg,  Paul  R.  Pearson,  Thomas  E.  Pease,  Harvey  J. 
Rosenfield,  Joseph  A.  Ruseckas,  Paul  A.  Schuster,  David  M. 
Schwaber,  Michael  D.  Shapiro,  Henry  J.  Skonieczny,  Alfred  G. 
Symonds,  Kenneth  W.  Terry,  Jeffrey  W.  Thwing,  Russell  B.  Trask, 
Eric  P.  Warman,  Bruce  R.  Webber,  Bruce  E.  Willerup,  John  T. 
Wilson,  William  H.  Wyman,  Bruce  C.  Yung,  John  H.  Zifcak,  Jr. 


1966 


299  Members 


39  Contributors 


13% 


Gary  M.  Anderson,  L.  Thomas  Benoit,  Jr.,  Roland  C.  Bouchard, 
John  J.  Braun,  John  H.  Carosella,  Paul  M.  Castle,  David  L.  Clarke, 
Douglas  H.  CrOwell,  Joachim  W.  Dziallas,  George  M.  Elko,  William 
F.  Elliott,  John  I.  Gilbert,  Richard  L.  Healer,  Stephen  J.  Hebert, 
Philip  J.  Hopkinson,  David  L.  Jorczak,  Peter  J.  Kudless,  Ernest  J. 
Kunz,  Jr.,  John  H.  Lauterback ,  Paul  R.  Lindberg,  Peter  H.  Lukesh, 
Donald  E.  McCarthy,  Paul  G.  Messier,  Donald  J.  Mugnai,  Ronald  F. 
Naventi,  Oleg  V.  Nedzelnitsky,  Jr.,  Richard  B.  Nelson,  Harry  B. 
Ogasian,  Jonathan  H.  Pardee,  Lawrence  Penoncello,  Donald  W. 
Petersen,  Jr.,  Robert  E.  Rapp,  Jesse  Stalker,  Peter  G.  Stebbins, 
David  H.  Stone,  Gerard  A.  Toupin,  Robert  J.  Zavatkay,  Roger  J. 
Zipfel. 


1967 


328  Members 


43  Contributors 


13% 


Stephen  R.  A/pert,  Arthur  F.  Amend,  Roger  V.  Bartholomew,  Paul 
B.  Cherubini,  Edward  S.  Ciarpella,  Joseph  J.  Cieplak,  William  E. 
Cobb,  Stephen  B.  Cotter,  Richard  H.  Court,  Jr.,  Francis  L.  Dacri, 
Richard  E.  Degennaro,  John  B.  Fe/dman,  Peter  N.  Formica,  Steven 
J.  Frymer,  Edward  A.  Gallo,  Carl  E.  Gilmore,  Ronald  J.  Gordon, 
Joseph  F.  Goulart,  Frederick  P.  Helm,  William  R.  Hyatt,  Clinton  A. 
Inglee,  Frank  T.  Jodaitis,  Bradford  A.  Johnson,  John  L.  Kilguss, 
Stephen  J.  Lak,  Jr.,  Thomas  Y.  Liu,  Robert  E.  Lundstrom,  Frank  D. 
Manter,  Robert  G.  McAndrew,  Edward  A.  Mendez,  Mukundray  N. 
Patel,  Leslie  J.  Payne,  William  F.  Pratt,  Joseph  R.  Pyzik,  John  G. 
Rahaim,  John  S.  Romano,  James  E.  Roy,  Jr.,  Neil  M.  Shea,  David 
K.  Smith,  John  E.  Sonne,  Peter  H.  Tallman,  Robert  P.  Tolokan, 
Elliot  F.  Whipple,  John  Pao-an  Yang,  Warren  B.  Zepp,  Jr. 


1968 


353  Members 


44  Contributors 


12% 


Arnold  J.  Antak,  Albert  J.  Attermeyer,  Robert  E.  Balmat,  Robert 
G.  Balmer,  David  C.  Baxter,  Paul  G.  Beaudet,  Norman  A.  Bergstrom, 
Jr.,  Bruce  M.  Blades,  John  M.  Burns,  Daniel  C.  Creamer,  Robert  H. 
deFlesco,  Jr.,  Robert  R.  Demers,  Michael  A.  DiPierro,  Pentti  O. 
Elolampi,  George  K.  Fairbanks,  Robert  J.  Gallo,  Cobb  S.  Goff, 
Edward  M.  Harper,  Robert  D.  Hickey,  Joseph  F.  Hilyard,  John  H. 
Holmes,  George  T.  Kane,  Charles  D.  Konopka,  Albert  A.  LaPrade, 
Carl  D.  Larson,  Michael  R.  Latina,  Andrew  A.  Lesick,  Bruce  G. 
Lovelace,  John  W.  Lovell,  Irving  I.  Mac,  John  D.  MacDougall.  Jr., 
David  R.  Martin,  Robert  Meader,  Joseph  L.  Paquette,  Roger  L. 
Phelps,  Roger  W.  Pryor,  David  H.  Rice,  Peter  Saltz,  Michael  A.  Sills, 
David  A.  Swercewski,  Richard  W.  Wallahora,  James  M.  Wendell, 
Richard  A.  Westsmith,   Frank  S.  Yazwinski,   III. 

Others 

Richard  J.  Altobelli  &  Company,  Alumni  Wives  Club,  American 
Optical  Corporation,  The  Carrier  Foundation,  Inc.,  Class  of  1969 
Cutler-Hammer  Foundation,  Factory  Mutual  Engineering  Corpora 
tion,  Franklin  Square  Agency.  Inc.,  George  W.  Knauff,  Inc. 
Morgan-Worcester,  Inc..  Dwight  J.  Potter.  Rex  Chainbelt  Founda 
tion.  Inc..  Stone  &  Webster,  Incorporated.  Textron,  Inc..  Harry  C 
Thompson,  Vee-Arc  Corporation,  West  Essex  Printing  Plates,  Inc. 
Agnes  S.  Wiley.  Worcester  County  Alumni  Association  Chapter. 


28 


THE   JOURNAL 


CLASS  TOTALS-June  30,  1969 

Class 

Contrib 
utors 

-     %  Par- 
ticipation  Amount 

Class 

Contrib- 
utors 

%Par- 
tici patio 

Amount 

Class 

Contrib- 
utors 

%  Par- 
ticipation  Amount 

1878-1901 

9 

34 

$462.00 

1927 

39 

44 

1,447.00 

1949 

95 

39 

2,680.00 

1902-1903 

8 

38 

225.00 

1928 

59 

45 

2,152.00 

1950 

72 

34 

1,856.00 

1904 

4 

50 

280.00 

1929 

50 

53 

2,595.00 

1951 

74 

38 

3,490.00 

1905 

3 

33 

130.00 

1930 

50 

42 

2,778.88 

1952 

54 

31 

1,320.00 

1906 

4 

29 

180.00 

1931 

50 

42 

1,994.57 

1953 

55 

31 

1,389.00 

1907 

13 

52 

635.00 

1932 

48 

42 

2,982.93 

1954 

45 

31 

1,408.00 

1908 

12 

48 

255.00 

1933 

58 

46 

3,258.00 

1955 

40 

30 

1 ,078.00 

1909 

10 

42 

320.00 

1934 

58 

49 

2,002.00 

1956 

44 

29 

920.00 

1910 

13 

41 

583.00 

1935 

57 

43 

2,416.00 

1957 

61 

29 

1,666.00 

1911 

10 

37 

887.25 

1936 

40 

36 

1,625.00 

1958 

60 

28 

1,650.75 

1912 

21 

45 

1,116.00 

1937 

46 

40 

2,193.49 

1959 

62 

24 

1 ,287.00 

1913 

23 

49 

1 ,735.00 

1938 

61 

45 

2,755.06 

1960 

73 

33 

1,646.00 

1914 

25 

51 

1,755.00 

1939 

58 

42 

2,410.00 

1961 

71 

25 

1,659.75 

1915 

30 

73 

2,715.63 

1940 

63 

40 

2,139.00 

1962 

52 

21 

891 .00 

1916 

30 

41 

1,811.00 

1941 

57 

37 

3,239.00 

1963 

59 

24 

1,307.00 

1917 

39 

50 

1 ,990.00 

1942 

66 

41 

1,824.75 

1964 

43 

15 

878.00 

1918 

19 

37 

560.00 

1943 

60 

43 

1,175.00 

1965 

48 

16 

866.00 

1919 

33 

79 

8,504.80 

1944 

74 

47 

3,965.00 

1966 

39 

13 

803.00 

1920 

35 

48 

2,637.75 

1945 

54 

52 

2,716.00 

1967 

43 

13 

633.00 

1921 

32 

49 

1,415.00 

1946 

33 

26 

1,100.00 

1968 

44 

12 

684.00 

1922 

44 

50 

2,445.00 

1946B 

24 

22 

637.00 

Hon.&  Others  21 

4,602.00 

1923 
1924 
1925 

34 
32 
25 

48 
43 
33 

1 ,240.00 
1,727.00 
1 ,368.00 

1946C 
1946D 
1947 

1 
17 

24 

8 
30 
32 

25.00 
445.00 
587.00 

Totals 

Matching 

2,928 

Gifts 

$119,822.61 
14,547.82 

1926 

53 

43 

2,055.00 

1948 

65 

36 

1,613.00 

Grand  Total 

$134,370.43 

DISTRICT  TOTALS-June  30,  1969 


No.  in 

District  District 

Berkshire 67 

Boston 770 

Central  New  York 102 

Chicago 108 

Cincinnati 44 

Cleveland 97 

Connecticut  Valley 323 

Detroit 86 

Hartford 578 

Hudson-Mohawk 120 

Los  Angeles 231 

New  Haven 378 

New  York 528 

North  Shore 270 

Northern  California 138 

Northern  New  Jersey 447 

Pacific  Northwest 30 

Philadelphia 367 

Pittsburgh 96 

Rhode  Island 239 

Rochester-Genesee 84 

Southeastern 111 

Washington 261 

Western  New  York 77 

Worcester 1,324 

Out  of  District 1,813 

Others 

TOTALS 8,689 


1968 

69 

1967 

-68 

No.  of 

Amount 

%  Partici- 

Average 

%  Partici- 

Average 

Gifts 

Received 

pation 

Gift 

pation 

Gift 

22 

$        630.00 

33 

$28.50 

35 

$29.20 

269 

10,924.00 

35 

40.60 

38 

34.84 

37 

1,180.00 

36 

31.90 

28 

35.68 

29 

1,115.00 

27 

38.40 

30 

65.39 

14 

380.00 

32 

27.00 

26 

21.61 

47 

1,601.75 

49 

34.25 

42 

46.50 

105 

4,391.25 

33 

41.70 

26 

38.84 

31 

1,110.00 

36 

36.00 

41 

37.74 

218 

8,346.00 

38 

38.00 

41 

31.33 

35 

1 ,846.07 

29 

53.00 

37 

23.08 

68 

2,716.00 

29 

40.00 

28 

40.04 

130 

4,622.00 

35 

35.50 

28 

37.96 

171 

8,363.06 

32 

49.00 

27 

47.38 

82 

2,702.25 

30 

33.00 

27 

34.50 

55 

2,315.75 

40 

42.20 

39 

34.75 

202 

7,475.49 

46 

36.70 

43 

39.52 

9 

552.50 

30 

61.80 

19 

55.00 

154 

5,793.00 

42 

37.50 

31 

39.35 

61 

3,267.93 

63 

53.45 

61 

45.68 

135 

2,831.00 

57 

20.90 

36 

24.29 

36 

1,170.00 

43 

32.50 

47 

32.37 

38 

1,181.50 

34 

31.30 

31 

33.26 

116 

4,728.00 

45 

40.70 

31 

33.50 

26 

910.00 

34 

35.00 

26 

24.25 

429 

17,927.43 

32 

41.90 

27 

39.14 

386 

17,120.63 

21 

44.30 

20 

49.69 

23 

4,622.00 

2,928 

$119,822.61 

34% 

40.58 

31% 

41.43 

THE   JOURNAL 


29 


UNDERGRADUATE  VIEWPOINT 

by 

GLENN  WHITE/71,  Feature  Editor, 

The  Tech  News 


An  engineering  college  has  often 
struck  me  as  having  a  split  personality. 
It  teaches  science  and  engineering, 
which  are  basically  innovative  and  con- 
stantly seeking  a  better  way  to  do 
something  or  produce  a  better  prod- 
uct. But  the  engineering  college  itself 
seems  resistant  to  change  and  afraid  of 
innovation,  in  the  face  of  growing 
signs  that  engineering  education  is 
simply  not  working.  The  old  saying 
"Those  who  can,  do;  those  who  can't, 
teach,"  comes  into  mind,  and  one  re- 
flects that  perhaps  that  could  be  the 
trouble.  The  engineering  college  may 
be  run  and  taught  by  engineers  who 
can't  innovate  (and  therefore  are  fail- 
ures as  engineers),  who  can't  look  at  a 
new  idea  objectively  and  judge  it  on  its 
merits  without  dismissing  it  because  it 
is  different. 

I  don't  really  believe  the  above, 
but,  with  the  publishing  of  "The  Fu- 
ture of  Two  Towers  —  Part  III:  A 
Model,"  Tech  is  now  in  a  position 
where  the  above  hypothesis  will  be 
tested  and  where  we  find  out  if  this 
college  community  can  look  objective- 
ly at  a  vastly  different  educational  sys- 
tem and  analyze  it;  not  on  the  basis  of 
what  has  been,  but  on  the  basis  of 
what  could  be.  The  model  suggested 
by  the  Faculty  Planning  Committee 
deserves  neither  our  blind  rejection 
nor  blind  acceptance,  but  rather  care- 
ful deliberation  by  the  entire  Tech 
community  on  whether  it  is  the  best 
plan  and,  if  so,  how  best  to  implement 
it. 

The  plan  appealed  to  me,  although 
I  have  some  reservations  to  parts  of  it 
(for  example,  how  could  a  person 
majoring  in  theoretical  mathematics  do 
advanced  -   level   project  work  of  the 


humanistic-technological  type?).  Over- 
all, though,  the  plan  impresses  me, 
mainly  because  it  confronts  so  many 
of  the  problems  in  society  today. 

The  Planning  Committee's  model 
would  deal  with  the  present  feeling  in 
so  many  engineering  students  that 
their  courses  aren't  relevant  to  their 
future  as  engineers.  Under  the  pro- 
posed system,  the  student  selects  his 
own  courses  and  at  the  same  time  does 
project  work.  The  project  work  would 
give  him  an  idea  of  what  he  needs  to 
know  in  his  particular  field  and  he 
takes  what  to  him  are  relevant  courses, 
that  he  now  knows  he  needs. 

The  "humane  technologist"  is  be- 
coming more  and  more  necessary  ev- 
ery day.  Since  the  19th  century,  the 
technologist  had  flourished  in  this 
country  and  has  produced  an  affluent 
society  unimaginable  a  hundred  years 
ago.  Unfortunately,  the  affluent  soci- 
ety is  not  satisfying  many  people.  The 
growth  of  technology  has  produced  a 
society  where  one  feels  like  an  IBM 
card,  where  pollution  and  violence  is 
making  the  Great  Society  the  Ugly 
Society,  and  where  starvation  exists 
not  far  from  low-cholesterol  diets.  The 
age  of  Science  is  ending,  the  age  when 
one  could  trust  blindly  in  Science  for 
the  salvation  of  the  human  race.  A 
new  age  is  dawning,  in  which  men  re- 
alize that  science  and  technology  is 
only  a  tool,  that  technology  is  neither 
good  nor  bad  in  itself,  that  only  man 
is,  and  that  man  will  have  to  direct 
technology  (and  not  simply  let  it  grow 
like  Topsy)  to  produce  not  only  afflu- 
ence and  more  affluence  for  the  major- 
ity, but  a  superior  way-of-life  (not 
necessarily  wealthier)  for  all. 

To  do  this,  mankind  will  have  to  re- 


late science  and  the  humanities.  Un- 
fortunately, liberal  arts  students  and 
graduates  seem  to  be  in  a  revolt 
against  science,  in  which  they  want 
nothing  to  do  with  technology.  The 
science  and  engineering  student  must 
then  be  the  one  to  cross  over  and  be- 
come familiar  with  the  relationship  be- 
tween science  and  society.  And  what 
better  way  to  make  them  familiar  with 
that  relationship  than  to  confront 
them  with  actual  situations  involving 
this,  as  the  report  so  well  pointed  out. 

The  abolishment  of  the  academic 
departments  may  well  lead  to  a  funda- 
mental change  in  scientists  and  engi- 
neers. No  longer  would  a  person  be  a 
physicist  or  a  chemical  engineer.  Rath- 
er, he  would  be  a  scientist  or  engineer 
studying  optics  or  an  engineer  study- 
ing chemical  processes.  The  old  lines 
of  academic  disciplines,  which  divided 
scientists  and  engineers  into  almost 
arbitrary  classifications  and  narrow 
fields  of  interests  and  which  are  already 
being  increasingly  crossed,  would  be 
abolished. 

A  sense  of  boldness  impresses  me  as 
I  think  of  what  the  model  could  result 
in.  We  will  be  venturing,  if  we  accept 
the  model,  into  an  educational  system 
that  is  unique,  into,  actually,  the  un- 
known. There  is  danger  involved,  of 
course.  Perhaps  we  cannot  attract  the 
money  to  maintain  the  program.  Per- 
haps the  graduates  of  American  high 
schools  will  not  be  able  to  adjust  to 
the  proposed  unstructured  curriculum. 
But  what  is  the  alternative?  Can  we 
continue  as  we  are  now,  safe  for  the 
moment  in  our  structured  framework, 
which  no  one  likes? 

I  remember  one  evening  this  sum- 
mer watching  men  walk  on  the  moon, 
men  there  because  a  man  had  the  bold- 
ness to  say,  "I  believe  this  nation 
should  permit  itself  to  achieve  the 
goal,  before  the  decade  is  out,  of  land- 
ing a  man  on  the  moon  and  returning 
him  safely  to  earth,"  because  scientists 
and  engineers  and  a  nation  (actually 
two)  had  the  boldness  to  venture  into 
the  unknown.  It  is  time  that  we  applied 
the  same  boldness  to  technical  educa- 
tion and  to  the  problems  of  society. 


30 


THE    JOURNAL 


IN 


MEMORY 


Leo  S.  Jansson, 
Trainer  and  Equipment  Man 

To  many  alumni,  Leo  Jansson  was  just 
another  name  on  the  football  program  at 
Homecoming,  but  to  the  Tech  athletes  and 
students  who  have  graduated  since  1959,  his 
name  means  much  more.  It  is  these  people 
who  know  how  deeply  Leo  felt  about 
Worcester  Tech  and,  above  all,  "his"  athletes. 

Bob  Pritchard,  head  of  the  Athletic 
Dept.,  described  him  best  when  he  said, 
"Leo  was  a  unique  individual;  he  never 
thought  first  of  himself  but  always,  and  I 
mean  always,  of  the  other  person.  He  spent 
untold  and  unheralded  hours  in  helping  a 
boy  get  back  into  shape.  He  went  far  beyond 
the  call  of  duty  in  working  with  Tech 
ath  letes. 

"He  had  a  unique  personality;  he  was 
never  harsh  or  unfair,  and  always  wore  a 
smile.  He  was  a  very  effective  trainer  because 
of  this,  and  I'm  sure  that  hundreds  of  Tech 
athletes  can  recall  helpful  kind  acts  that  Leo 
had  performed  for  them.  His  loss  is  im- 
measurable." 

Leo  was  born  in  West  Sutton,  Mass.  and 
served  for  20  years  in  the  Navy.  During  his 
Navy  career,  he  was  stationed  at  the  Worces- 
ter Reserve  Training  Center  several  times. 
During  World  War  II  he  was  with  the  First 
Marine  Division  and  participated  in  numer- 
ous landings,  receiving  five  battle  stars.  Leo 
served  as  a  pharmacist's  mate  and  joined 
Tech  four  days  after  he  completed  his  Navy 
career  in  1959.  Since  then  he  had  been  heal- 
ing, both  physically  and  mentally,  his  Tech 


n 


Leo  S.  Jansson 
1921-1969 


athletes. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Quinsigamond 
Lodge  of  Masons  and  was  a  32nd  degree 
Mason.  He  was  also  an  honorary  member  of 
the  Alumni  Association. 

He  leaves  his  sister,  Mrs.  Ruth  Hatfield; 
two  brothers,  Henry  R.  and  Arthur  J.;  and 
several  nieces  and  nephews. 

The  Tech  athlete  has  lost  a  good  friend, 
and  his  friendship  will  be  deeply  missed. 
Perhaps  the  largest  void  will  be  the  absence 
of  the  familiar  voice  in  the  training  room; 
"Hi  ya,  kid,  how's  it  goin'?" 


Albert  Leslie  Bliss  '02 

Albert  Leslie  Bliss,  '02,  of  30  Crofut  St., 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  died  at  his  home  on  May 
1 5,  1 969  at  the  age  of  88. 

Born  in  W.  Brookfield,  he  attended 
Worcester  English  High  School  and  studied 
electrical  engineering  while  at  Tech. 

Upon  graduation,  he  taught  at  Pratt 
Institute  of  Brooklyn  briefly,  and  in  1916 
moved  to  Pittsfield  to  work  for  General 
Electric.  He  retired  in  1944. 

He  was  long  active  in  community  affairs. 
In  1948,  Mr.  Bliss  was  given  Scouting's 
highest  honor,  the  Silver  Beaver  award.  At 
that  time  he  was  called  "one  of  the  most 
valuable"  men  in  the  Scouting  movement. 
He  formerly  served  on  the  Berkshire  County 
Boy  Scout  Council  Board. 

In  1949,  Mr.  Bliss  became  the  first 
Berkshire   County   member  of  the  Society 


for  Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  Children  to 
serve  on  the  state  board.  In  1964,  he  was 
presented  with  the  John  B.  Whiteman  award 
in  recognition  of  his  "outstanding  service" 
to  the  society.  In  his  25  years  of  service  he 
had  held  all  but  one  major  office  and  had 
served  on  many  committees. 

Mr.  Bliss  was  active  in  the  Community 
Fund  and  was  chairman  of  its  budget 
committee.  He  also  served  as  a  director. 

He  leaves  two  daughters.  Miss  Elizabeth 
B.  Bliss  and  Mrs.  Frederick  H.  Merrill;  and 
four  grandchildren. 

Ernest  O.  Wheeler  ,'02 

Ernest  O.  Wheeler,  '02,  died  December 
6,  1968,  at  Jordan  Hospital,  Plymouth, 
Mass.  He  resided  at  14  Old  Bridge  Rd., 
Hanover,  Mass. 

He    was    born    October    17,    1878,    in 


Marlboro,  Mass.;  where  he  attended  Marl- 
boro High  School.  While  at  Tech  he  was  a 
member  of  the  Society  of  Automobile 
Engineers. 

After  leaving  Tech  he  taught  at  voca- 
tional schools  in  Connecticut  and  Berlin, 
Mass. 

He  was  past  president  of  the  Wollaston 
Golden  Age  group,  former  vice  commodore 
of  the  Squantum  Yacht  Club,  and  a  member 
of  the  Hanover  Grange  and  Senior  Citizens. 
In  the  early  1900's  he  built  automobiles. 
One  of  his  cars,  which  was  called  the 
Wheeler  Runabout,  is  now  in  the  antique 
auto  museum  in  Athol,  Mass. 

Husband  of  the  late  Florence  B.  (Allen) 
Wheeler,  he  is  survived  by  a  daughter,  Mrs. 
Louise  B.  Morse;  a  sister,  Miss  Eva  B. 
Wheeler;  two  grandchildren;  and  four  great 
-grandchildren. 

George  Daniel  Goodspeed,'03 

George  Daniel  Goodspeed,  '03,  of  Holi- 
day Point  Rd.,  Sherman,  Conn.,  died  on 
December  20,  1968. 

He  was  born  February  3,  1 880,  at 
Gardner,  Mass.  and  attended  Gardner  High 
School.  When  he  left  Tech  he  became  a 
designer  for  Bullard  Machine  &  Tool  Co., 
Bridgeport,  Conn.  He  left  there  to  take  a 
position  as  plant  engineer  at  Heywood 
Wakefield  Co.,  Gardner,  Mass.  In  1935,  he 
took  a  position  with  the  Mahoney  Chair  Co. 
as  a  mechanical  enginee  until  his  retirement 
in  1955. 

In  1912  he  married  the  former  Bernice 
E.  Lucas.  They  had  one  daughter,  Barbara. 

Albert  Willis  Darling, '04 

Albert  Willis  Darling,  '04,  of  Street  Rd., 
Kennett  Sq.,  Pa.,  died  on  May  21,  1969. 
Born  on  September  7,  1881,  in  Worcester, 
he  attended  Worcester  English  High  School. 
While  at  Tech  earning  his  degree  in  Mechani- 
cal Engineering,  he  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity. 

Upon  graduation  he  became  a  mechani- 
cal engineer  for  Graton  &  Knight  Mfg.  Co. 
In  1926  he  took  a  similar  position  with 
Norton  Co.  until  he  was  employed  in  1932 
by  Reed  Rolled  Thread  Die  Co.  He  became 
plant  engineer  and  director  there  until  his 
retirement  in  1953. 

Husband  of  the  late  Marjorie  (Elder) 
Darling,  he  is  survived  by  a  son,  A.  Bennett; 
a  sister,  Mrs.  Robert  C.  Benchley;  a  brother, 
Syrus;  two  grandchildren  and  two  great- 
grandchildren. 

Alfred  Ernest  Rankin,  '04 

Alfred  Ernest  Rankin,  '04,  of  18  Norton 
St.,  Worcester,  Mass.,  died  August  21,  1969, 
at  Hahnemann  Hospital,  Worcester. 

Born  December  31,  1883,  in  Worcester, 
he  attended  Worcester  public  schools  until 
his  entrance  to  Tech  in  1900.  While  at  Tech 
he  studied  mechanical  engineering  and  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta  Fraternity. 


THE  JOURNAL 


31 


After  his  graduation,  he  joined  the  U.S. 
Envelope  Co.  of  Worcester.  From  1906  to 
1914  he  worked  at  several  jobs  in  the  New 
York  area  before  returning  to  U.S.  Envelope. 
From  1914  to  his  retirement  in  1949,  he  was 
the  director  of  engineering. 

He  was  a  former  member  of  the  Worces- 
ter Common  Council,  a  former  Worcester 
Public  Library  trustee,  a  former  director  of 
the  Worcester  Chamber  of  Commerce,  and 
former  president  and  formerly  director  and 
treasurer  of  the  Worcester  YMCA,  a  trustee 
and  honorary  trustee  of  Peoples  Savings 
Bank,  past  president  of  Worcester  Kiwanis 
Club,  Worcester  Community  Council,  and 
Southern  Worcester  County  Health  Associ- 
ation. 

He  was  also  a  member  of  Worcester 
Country  Club,  the  University  Club,  the 
Bohemians,  Worcester  Economic  Club,  Wor- 
cester County  Republican  Club,  Worcester 
County  Mechanics  Association,  Appalachian 
Mountain  Club,  and  the  Newcomen  Club. 
He  was  elected  a  33rd  degree  Mason  in  1948. 

He  leaves  a  sister,  Miss  Ethel  M.  Rankin, 
with  whom  he  made  his  home;  a  niece.  Miss 
Alice  C.  Rankin;  three  nephews,  John  R. 
Rice,  Benjamin  B.  Rice,  and  Alfred  W.  Rice. 
His  brother,  William  -J. A.  Rankin,  '00,  died 
in  1942 

Ralph  Parker  Norton,  '12 

Ralph  Parker  Norton,  '12,  of  9  Oakland 
St.,  Manchester,  Conn.,  died  July  30,  1969, 
at  a  Manchester  convalescent  home. 

He  was  born  August  23,  1888  in  Man- 
chester. He  attended  Worcester  (Mass.)  Acad- 
emy prior  to  his  entrance  to  W.P.I.  While  at 
Tech  he  majored  in  electrical  engineering. 
He  also  received  an  advanced  degree  in  1919 
from  Tech  in  the  same  field.  He  was  a  mem- 
ber of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity. 

Since  1931  he  was  affiliated  with  the 
Norton  Electrical  Instrument  Co.,  where  he 
served  as  secretary-treasurer  until  1954, 
when    he    became    its    president. 

He  was  a  member  of  Manchester  Lodge 
of  Masons,  and  in  June  of  1963  received  his 
50-year  membership  pin  from  the  Lodge.  He 
was  a  York  Rite  Mason  and  a  member  of  the 
Sphinx  Temple  Shrine  in  Hartford,  (Conn.). 
He  also  was  a  55-year  member  of  King  David 
Lodge  of  Odd  Fellows. 

Survivors  include  eight  cousins. 

John  Axtell  Canton,  '13 

John  Axtell  Canton,  '13,  of  43  E.  Chest- 
nut St.,  Sharon,  Mass.,  died  July  11,  1969, 
at  Norwood  (Mass.)  Hospital. 

He  was  born  July  12,  1890  in  Everett, 
Mass.,  and  was  educated  at  Chelsea  (Mass.) 
High  School.  While  at  Tech  he  majored  in 
civil  engineering. 

For  40  years  he  was  with  the  M.B.T.A., 
retiring  in  1955.  He  was  a  member  and  past 
Grand  Knight  of  Belmont  Council  No.  332 


K.  of  C,  a  member  of  the  Catholic  Alumni 
Sodality  of  Boston,  and  a  member  for  over 
50  years  of  the  Holy  Name  Society. 

He  is  survived  by  one  son,  John  A. 
Canton,  Jr.;  and  two  grandchildren. 

Nels  Albin  Nelson,  '14 

Dr.  Nels  Albin  Nelson,  '14,  a  nationally 
known  leader  in  public  health,  and  founder 
of  the  Nesserian  Medical  Society  of  Massa- 
chusetts, died  August  24,  1969,  in  Crescent 
City,  Fla. 

A  native  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  he  attended 
Fitchburg  High  School  before  his  entrance 
to  Tech.  While  at  Tech  he  studied  chemistry 
which  led  him,  upon  graduation,  to  a  medi- 
cal degree  from  Long  Island  College  and  a 
master's  degree  from  Johns  Hopkins  School 
of  Public  Health. 

He  devoted  his  life  to  public  health  as 
director  of  the  American  Red  Cross  Tuber- 
culosis Commission  in  Sicily,  after  which  he 
joined  the  Massachusetts  Dept.  of  Public 
Health.  While  in  this  capacity  he  was  associ- 
ated with  the  Harvard  School  of  Public 
Health,  Tufts  University,  and  Simmons  Col- 
lege. In  1942  he  was  appointed  deputy  state 
health  officer  in  charge  of  venereal  disease 
control  in  the  Maryland  Dept.  of  Health. 
During  this  period,  he  was  a  lecturer  at 
Johns   Hopkins  Medical   School. 

He  leaves  three  sisters.  Miss  Florence  A., 
Mrs.  Eric  J.  Anderson,  and  Mrs.  Kenneth  H. 
Wyatt. 

Major  Nathan  Carlos  Avery,  '15 

Major  Nathan  Carlos  Avery,  '15,  died 
June  8,  I969,  in  Long  Beach,  Calif.  He 
resided  at  233  Canada  West,  San  Clemente, 
Calif. 

Born  February  7,  I893,  in  New  Britain, 
Conn.,  he  was  educated  at  Westfield  (Mass.) 
High  School.  After  leaving  Tech  he  received 
a  Bachelor  of  Philosophy  degree  from  Yale 
University.  He  had  20  years  of  service  in  the 
Navy  and  Army  Reserve.  He  was  super- 
visor, of  plant  and  maintenance  at  the 
Connecticut  Veterans  Home  and  the  South- 
bury  Training  School. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Legion,  Rotary  Club,  and  was  a  Mason.  He 
is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former  Myrtle 
Cox;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Harriet  A.  Day;  a 
brother,  Sherman  F.;  two  sisters,  Mrs. 
Arthur  D.  Bradley  and  Mrs.  L.  P.  Forker, 
Sr.;  three  grandchildren  and  several  nieces 
and  nephews. 

Clifton  Perry  Howard,  '15 

Clifton  Perry  Howard,  '15,  of  1 147  Main 
St.,  Holden,  Mass.,  died  July  22,  1969. 

He  was  born  September  18,  1891  in 
Worcester,  where  he  attended  Worcester 
English.  He  studied  mechanical  engineering 
while  at  Tech.  He  was  elected  to  Tau  Beta 
Pi  and  also  worked  on  the  college  yearbook. 

He  had  retired  in  1957  from  the  Rock- 


wood  Sprinkler  Co.  where  he  had  been  em- 
ployed since  his  graduation  from  Tech.  He 
was  factory  manager  at  the  time  of  his 
retirement. 

He  was  a  former  chairman  of  the  Worces- 
ter Chapter  of  A.S.M.E.  and  a  former  direc- 
tor of  the  Worcester  Economic  Club  and  the 
Worcester  Safety  Council.  He  was  a  former 
president  of  the  City  Missionary  Society, 
the  Worcester  Engineering  Society,  and  the 
Worcester  Kiwanis  Club. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  the  former  Juniata 
Burlingame;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Richard  S. 
Day  and  Mrs.  Harry  W.  Burns;  six  grand- 
children; and  one  great-grandchild. 

Leonard  Maynard  Krull,  '16 

Leonard  Maynard  Krull,  '16,  of  Vinal 
Hill  Rd.  in  Westboro,  Mass.,  died  July  14, 
1969. 

Born  in  Molkwerum,  Netherlands,  he 
moved  to  the  United  States  at  the  age  of 
five.  After  two  years  of  high  school,  he  at- 
tended Mt.  Hermon  School  for  two  years 
before  coming  to  Tech.  While  at  Tech  Mr. 
Krull  was  a  member  of  the  Glee  Club.  He 
received  his  B.S.  in  mechanical  engineering. 

After  his  graduation,  he  went  to  work 
for  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester.  While  in  Nor- 
ton's employ,  he  spent  two  years  in  French, 
British,  and  Dutch  Guinea  in  search  of  baux- 
ite. 

In  November  of  1922,  with  two  associ- 
ates, he  founded  the  Bay  State  Abrasive 
Products  Co.,  which  later  became  Avco  Bay 
State.  As  the  success  of  the  firm  grew,  Bay 
State  Abrasives  became  one  of  the  largest 
industries  in  its  field  in  the  United  States. 
Mr.  Krull  became  Chairman  of  the  Board 
in  1949  and  Honorary  Chairman  in  1958. 

In  1951,  Mr.  Krull  was  elected  to  the 
Board  of  Trustees  at  Tech  and  was  elected 
to  life  membership  in  1956.  In  1967,  he  was 
honored  by  his  Alma  Mater  when  he  received 
an  honorary  doctor  of  engineering  degree. 

Mr.  Krull  had  served  as  vice-president 
and  director  of  the  Westboro  National  Bank, 
trustee  of  the  Westboro  Savings  Bank,  and, 
for  17  years,  a  member  of  the  town  Finance 
Committee.  He  also  served  on  the  Westboro 
Appeals  Board. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  the  former  Pauline  F. 
Fairbanks;  three  daughters,  Mrs.  Ida  May 
Elby,  Mrs.  Cornelia  Hutt,  and  Mrs.  Lenice 
Hirschberger;  two  sisters,  Mrs.  Rintze  Har- 
inga  and  Mrs.  Gert  Youngsma;  and  eight 
grandchildren. 

Lester  Willis  Kimball.  '17 

Lester  Willis  Kimball.  '17,  of  1894  Palm- 
as  Dr.,  San  Marino,  Calif.,  died  instantly  of 
a  massive  coronary  on  June  6,  1969  while 
on  vacation  in  the  San  Bernadino  Moun- 
tains. 

Born  March  14.  1892  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  he 
attended  Saugus  (Mass.)  High  School.  After 


32 


THE   JOURNAL 


two  years  at  Worcester  Tech,  Lester  trans- 
ferred to  the  University  of  Maine  where  he 
majored  in  economics  and  sociology.  He  left 
the  University  for  two  years  to  serve  in  the 
Army  Medical  Corps  during  World  War  I  and 
returned  to  graduate  from  Maine  in  1919. 
While  at  Tech  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  Fraternity.  He  was  an  honorary 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Phi. 

Since  his  graduation,  he  had  been  in  the 
security  business,  first  in  New  York  City  and 
later  in  Los  Angeles. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Kate  G.  Shoaff ;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Kate  Harris; 
a  son,  Robert  S.;  a  brother,  Charles  F.;  a 
sister,  Mrs.  Esther  Kohlhoff;  and  seven 
grandchildren. 

Winchester  DeVoe,  Jr.,  '21 

Winchester  DeVoe,  Jr.,  '21,  of  203 
Kingsley  Ave.,  Mahoning  Manor,  Danville, 
Pa.,  died  on  November  25,  1968,  in  Hallan- 
dale,  Fla.  He  had  been  staying  at  his  winter 
home  in  Hollywood,  Fla.,  at  the  time  of  his 
death. 

He  was  born  July  29,  I897,  in  Brooklyn, 
N.Y.,  where  he  attended  Manual  Training 
High  School.  Upon  graduation  from  Tech  as 
an  electrical  engineer,  he  worked  for  Gen- 
eral Electric  of  Schenectady,  N.  Y.  A  year 
later  he  became  the  district  manager  of 
Pennsylvania  Power  and  Light  Co.,  Danville. 
Then,  in  1930  he  established  his  own 
insurance  and  real  estate  business  in  Dan- 
ville. 

Mr.  DeVoe  was  active  in  many  civic 
fraternal  organizations.  He  was  a  member  of 
Mahoning  516;  F&AM;  the  Caldwell  Con- 
sistory; the  Danville  Elks;  Danville  Moose; 
and  the  Friendship  Fire  Company.  He  was  a 
veteran  of  World  War  1  where  he  served  in 
the  U.S.  Navy.  He  is  past  Commander  of 
Danville  American  Legion  Post  40.  He  was 
also  a  member  of  the  Danville  Board  of 
Health. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  the  former  Catherine 
M.  Koons;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Grant  Sum- 
mers and  Mrs.  Victor  Schwab;  one  brother, 
Bryan  R.  Devoe;  and  three  grandchildren. 

Carleton  Thomas  Gilbert,  '21 
Carleton    Thomas    Gilbert,    '21,   of   32 
Wildwood  Gardens,  Port  Washington,  N.  Y., 
died  May  8,  1968. 

Born  March  6,  1898,  in  Thomaston, 
Conn.,  he  attended  Worcester  Academy 
before  earning  his  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering in  1921.  While  at  Tech  he  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity 
and  served  on  the  Inter-fraternity  Council. 
Upon  graduation,  Mr.  Gilbert  joined  the 
New  York  Telephone  Co.,  where  he  remain- 
ed until  he  retired  in  1960.  While  employed 
there  he  served  as  supervisory  and  project 
engineer  for  the   Hempstead   (Long  Island) 


branch  of  the  company. 

Among  his  survivors  is  his  son,  Carleton 
T.,  Jr. 

Edwin  Augustus  Stewart,  '27 

Edwin  Augustus  Stewart,  '27,  of  588 
Main  St.,  Agawam,  Mass.,  died  June  5, 
1969,  at  his  home. 

He  was  born  November  15,  1905,  in 
Worcester,  where  he  attended  Commerce 
High  School.  While  at  Tech  he  earned  a 
degree  in  electrical  engineering.  He  was  a 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  Fraternity, 
was  on  the  basketball  team,  and  was  captain 
of  the  golf  team. 

Shortly  after  graduation  he  joined  the 
General  Fibre  Box  Co.  in  Springfield,  Mass., 
where  he  remained  and  eventually  became 
plant  manager. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Beatrice  Stone;  his  mother,  Mrs.  Clara 
(Lagerstrom)  Stewart;  a  son,  Edward  A.; 
and  a  sister,  Mrs.  Cyril  McQueen. 

Edwin  Augustus  Stewart,  '27 
Arthur  Stanley   Marshall,    '29,   of   797 
Grafton    St.,    Shrewsbury,    Mass.,    died    at 
Peter    Bent    Brigham    Hospital,   Boston,  on 
March  5,  1969. 

Born  November  8,  1908,  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  he  was  educated  in  local  schools. 
While  at  Tech  he  was  a  member  of  Tau 
Epsilon  Omega  Fraternity,  which  was  the 
original  chapter  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

He  worked  for  Savage  Arms  Corp.  of 
Utica,  N.  Y.,  as  foreman  and  product 
Engineer.  In  1950  he  joined  Crompton  and 
Knowles  in  Worcester  as  Superintendent  of 
Maintenance.  In  1958  he  was  made  plant 
manager. 

Julian  Hopkins  Ray,  '34 

Julian  Hopkins  Ray,  '34,  of  1700  Sher- 
wood Rd.,  Silver  Spring,  Md.,  died  Sunday, 
June  22,  1969,  at  the  George  Washington 
University  Hospital  after  a  brief  illness. 

Born  in  Framingham,  Mass.,  on  August 
21,  1912,  he  was  educated  in  the  Framing- 
ham  School  System.  He  earned  his  Bachelor 
and  Master  of  Science  degrees  at  Tech  in  the 
field  of  electrical  engineering.  While  at  the 
school  he  was  a  member  of  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha  Fraternity. 

He  was  a  nationally  known  development 
engineer,  and  the  founder,  past  president, 
and  chairman  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of 
Washington  Technological  Associates  Inc.,  a 
Rockville  (Md.)  based  research  and  develop- 
ment company.  Mr.  Ray  was  also  a  director 
and  member  of  the  executive  committee  of 
Quanta  Systems  Corp.,  which  he  helped 
found    in    1968. 

After  serving  as  a  research  and  electrical 
transmission  engineer  at  the  American  Steel 
and  Wire  Co.,  in  Worcester  between  1935 


and  1942,  he  went  to  the  Applied  Physics 
Laboratory  of  the  Johns  Hopkins  University 
in  Silver  Spring,  Md. 

At  the  Applied  Physics  Laboratory  he 
had  important  roles  in  the  accelerated  devel- 
opment of  the  proximity  fuze  during  World 
War  II,  and  later  participated  in  the  develop- 
ment of  advanced  underwater  guidance  and 
control.  His  last  assignments  at  APL  were 
concerned  with  support  and  fire  control 
systems  for  the  TERRIER  and  TALOS 
guided  missiles.  In  1950  he  left  APL  to 
found  the  Washington  Technical  Associates, 
Inc. 

He  has  been  an  active  member  of  the 
Science  Industry  Committee  of  the  Washing- 
ton Board  of  Trade,  and  of  numerous  other 
professional,  technical,  and  management 
societies. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Betty  J.  Gunst  of  Silver  Spring,  Md. 

Leon  James  Volley,  '34 

Leon  James  Volley,  '34,  died  February 
7,  1969,  in  Union  Memorial  Hospital,  Balti- 
more, after  a  long  illness.  He  resided  at  1311 
Kitmore  Rd.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Born  May  23, 1913,at  Springfield,  Mass., 
he  was  educated  in  St.  Petersburg,  Fla.,  be- 
fore attending  W.P.I.  While  at  Tech  he 
belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  Fraternity. 
After  leaving  Tech,  he  attended  Strayer 
College  of  Accountancy,  Washington,  D.C., 
where  he  received  his  B.C.S.  and  M.C.S. 
degrees. 

For  several  years  after  his  graduation  he 
did  general  accounting  for  several  firms  such 
as  Western  Electric  Co.,  Inc.,  Consolidated 
Terminal  Corp.,  and  Colony  House,  Inc.  The 
high  point  in  his  career  came  when,  in  1945, 
the  partnership  of  Koetting  &  Volley  was 
formed.  This  was  an  accounting,  auditing, 
and  tax  firm. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Mary  F.  Vol- 
ley; two  children,  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Harriet 
W.  Schuette,  and  a  son,  David  C;  and  two 
granddaughters. 

Everett  Leslie  Vaughn,  '35 

Everett  Leslie  Vaughn,  '35,  of  22  Granite 
St.,  Uxbridge,  Mass.,  died  Saturday,  May  31, 
1969,  in  Rutland  Heights  Hospital.  Born  in 
Worcester  on  September  27,  1912,  he  was  a 
graduate  of  Commerce  High  School.  While 
at  Tech  he  earned  a  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering. He  belonged  to  the  A.S.M.E.  and 
the  A.I.E.E. 

His  first  job  was  with  Heald  Machine  Co. 
as  a  designer.  He  then  moved  and  became 
N.E.  district  manager  of  Warner  &  Swasey 
Co.,  Cleveland.  Finally  he  returned  to  Heald 
Machine  Co.  to  become  their  eastern  man- 
ager of  dealer  sales. 

He  was  a  member  of  Uxbridge  Evangeli- 
cal Congregational  Church  and  served  as  its 


THE  JOURNAL 


33 


deacon  for  several  years.  He  was  a  member 
and  past  patron  of  Orion  Chapter,  Order  of 
Eastern  Star,  and  a  member  of  Solomon's 
Temple  Lodge  of  Masons.  He  also  served  as 
secretary  of  Boy  Scout  Troop  22. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  the  former  Ruth  A. 
Bassett;  a  son,  2/Lt.  Richard  B.,  '68,  sta- 
tioned at  Ft.  Bliss,  Tex.;  two  daughters, 
Mrs.  Ruth  L.  Phillips  and  Mrs.  Susan  C. 
Donham;  a  sister,  Mrs.  Viola  Cushman;  four 
grandchildren;  and  two  nieces. 

Dixon  Chapman  Burdick,  '36 

Dixdn  Chapman  Burdick,  '36,  of  Wash- 
ington, D.C.,  died  on  July  22,  1969,  at 
Providence  Hospital  in  Washington. 

Born  September  17,  1914,  in  Norwich, 
Conn.,  he  attended  Manchester  (Conn.)  High 
School  prior  to  entering  Tech.  While  at  Tech 
he  majored  in  chemistry.  He  was  a  member 


of  the  basketball  team  and  Skeptical  Chym- 
ists. 

He  was  a  research  scientist  at  the  Navy 
Research  Bureau  at  Anacostia,  Md.  He  was  a 
veteran  of  World  War  II,  and  a  captain  in  the 
Naval  Reserve. 

Surviving  are  two  daughters  and  three 
sons;  his  wife,  the  former  Mary  E.  King;  a 
sister,  Mrs.  Phyllis  B.  Howenson;  and  a 
niece,  Mrs.  Richard  Dziadus. 

Benjamin  Allen  Lambert,  '40 

Benjamin  Allen  Lambert,  '40,  passed 
away  in  Pittsburgh's  Western  Pennsylvania 
Hospital  on  June  2,  1969.  He  resided  at  101 
Algonquin  Rd.,  Pittsburgh. 

He  was  born  in  Brockton,  Mass.,  March 
14,  1918.  He  earned  a  degree  in  chemical 
engineering  at  W.P.I.  Ben  was  very  active 
while   at   Tech.   He  earned  letters  in  both 


football  and  baseball,  was  sports  editor  on 
the  Tech  News  and  served  on  the  Interfra- 
ternity  Council.  He  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity  and  was  honored 
by  election  to  The  Skull. 

He  originally  started  work  for  E.I.  duPont 
de  Nemours  and  Co.  and  later  for  the  Polar- 
oid Corp.  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  then 
moved  to  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc.  of  Cam- 
bridge where  he  was  a  senior  engineer.  He 
remained  at  this  firm  until  1965,  when  he 
was  appointed  director  of  market  develop- 
ment and  planning  for  Dravo  Corp.,  Pitts- 
burgh. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  the  former  Constance 
Keene,  and  five  sons:  Benjamin  A.,  Jonathan 
K.,  Christopher  G.,  Alexander  D.,  and  An- 
thony B.  He  also  leaves  his  mother,  Mrs. 
Deborah  (Doane)  Lambert,  and  a  brother, 
Stevens. 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1917 

Former  Worcester  City  Councillor  Andrew 
B.  Holmstrom  was  awarded  a  citation  for 
meritorious  service  at  Quinsigamond  Com- 
munity College's  fifth  commencement.  He 
served  as  chairman  of  the  Community  Col- 
lege Committee  of  the  Worcester  Area 
Chamber  of  Commerce  which  was  instru- 
mental in  locating  the  college  where  it  is 
today.  .  .  William  L.G.  Mackenzie  writes, 
"Still  working  after  52  years  with  same 
company."  He  is  President  of  Fiske-Carter 
Construction  Co.,  Greenville,  S.C. 

1919 

Rear  Admiral  James  E.  Arnold,  (Ret.)  has 
recently  completed  a  book  called  Hard- 
scrabble  Hall.  The  book  is  published  by 
Vantage  Press,  Inc.  of  New  York  who  state, 
"Hardscrabble  Hall  is  a  delight  to  read  if  on- 
ly for  the  story  it  tells."  .  .  .  Rear  Admiral 
Richard  S.  Morse  is  now  fully  retired  from 
the  U.S.  Navy. 

1921 

We  have  learned  that  Edward  Rose  has  re- 
tired and  is  now  living  in  Hallandale,  Fla.  He 
formerly  was  employed  by  Fred  S.  Dubin 
Assoc,  W.  Hartford,  Conn.,  as  Chief  Sani- 
tary Engineer. 

1922 

Kenneth  J.  Lloyd  writes,  "I  retired  from 
Turner  Construction  Co.,  Boston,  Mass.,  on 
Feb.  1,  1969,  after  47  years  as  construction 
engineer  on  general  types  of  buildings."  .  .  . 


Fred  P.  Millard  has  recently  joined  the 
Mogabgab  Co.,  Real  Estate  and  Insurance, 
in  New  Canaan,  Conn.  .  .  .  George  A.  Walker 
writes,  "I  am  now  somewhat  less  'retired' 
than  I  have  been  in  the  last  three  years.  A 
consulting  organization  that  prepares  speci- 
fications for  municipal  water  distribution 
and  sewage  disposal  plants  here  in  New 
Jersey  has  asked  me  to  handle  their  electrical 
power  specifications.  Officially  then  I  am 
now  a  Consulting  Engineer  in  Electric 
Power    .    .    ." 

1923 

Edmond  G.  Reed  has  retired  from  the  Fac- 
tory Insurance  Association  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  He  and  his  wife  now  live  in  E.  Booth- 
bay,  Me. 

1925 

O.  Arnold  Hansen  has  retired  from  Bell 
Aerosystems  Co.  to  become  a  Consultant  in 
Cryogenic  Engineering,  a  field  in  which  he 
spent  33  years  with  the  Linde  Div.  of 
Union  Carbide  Corp.  .  .  We  received  a  note 
from  Urban  R.  Lamay:  "I  retired  on  Feb.  1, 
1969,  after  43  plus  years  with  the  General 
Electric  Co.  .  .  Our  retirement  plans  in- 
clude visits  to  our  seven  children  and  eigh- 
teen grandchildren.  .."...  Leonard  F.  San- 
born is  a  Sr.  Engineer  for  Fay,  Spofford  & 
Thorndike,  Inc.  and  is  presently  at  a  project 
office  in  Worcester. 

1926 
We  have  learned  of  the  retirement  of  Henry 
G.   Mildrum.  He  leaves  The  Hartford  Insur- 
ance Group  after  a  43-year  career.  He  had 


been  a  Vice-President  of  the  company  since 
1 967.  .  .  Mabbott  ("Mab")  B.  Steele  has  re- 
tired after  41  years  with  Republic  Steel 
Corp.,  Steel  and  Tubes  Div.  He  was  District 
Sales  Manager  for  the  New  York-New  Eng- 
land District,  Steel  and  Tubes  Div.  He  is 
now  living  in  Centerville,  Mass.  .  .  Howard 
G.  Lasselle  has  retired  after  42  years  of  ser- 
vice with  New  England  Electric  System.  He 
had  served  as  Vice-President  and  General 
Purchasing  Agent  of  the  New  England  Pow- 
er Service  Co.  since  1958. 

1927 

We  received  a  letter  from  Richard  E.  Bliven. 
He  writes,  "On  December  1,  1968,  I  retired 
as  Senior  Engineer  from  the  New  Jersey 
Power  and  Light  -  Jersey  Central  Power  and 
Light  Co.  I  had  been  with  the  company  for 
the  past  sixteen  years."  .  .  .  Victor  E.  Hill 
has  informed  us  that  he  retired  from  the 
Duquesne  Light  Co.  in  Pittsburgh  on  May  1, 
1969  after  almost  42  years  of  service. 

1928 

Arthur  T.  Simmonds  has  retired  from  the 
New  England  Power  Co.  after  nearly  42 
years  of  service.  He  was  the  Director  of 
Hydro  Production  before  his  retirement  on 
May  1,  1969. 

1929 

Allerton  R.  Cushman  has  retired  from  the 
New  England  Power  Co.  where  he  was  a 
Senior  Engineer.  He  and  his  wife  now  live  in 
Sedona,  Ariz. 

1930 
C  Eugene  Center  was  Chairman  of  the  Pro- 
gram Arrangements  Committee  in  planning 
for  the  1969  Annual  Meeting  of  the  Ameri- 
can Association  of  Cost  Engineers  held  in 
Pittsburgh.  June  29  -  July  2.  1969.  There 
were  48  technical  papers  presented  in  4 
symposia.  .  .  Our  sincere  sympathy  to  Her- 


34 


THE   JOURNAL 


ben  W.  Davis  whose  wife,  Gladys,  died  sud- 
denly April  23,  1969.  His  son,  Gary,  is  an 
instructor  at  St.  Albans  School,  National 
Cathedral,  Washington,  D.C.  Herb  was  elect- 
ed President  of  the  Industrial  Equipment 
Manufacturers  Council,  a  National  Trade  As- 
sociation, at  the  annual  meeting  held  in 
Anaheim,  Calif.  He  is  Vice-President,  Re- 
search, at  Triumph  Machinery  Co.,  Hack- 
ettstown,  N.J.  .  .  M.  Lawrence  Price,  Vice- 
President  and  Dean  of  Faculty  at  Tech,  was 
recently  honored  by  the  ROTC  cadet  bri- 
gade. He  was  named  an  honorary  cadet  colo- 
nel in  recognition  of  his  leadership  of  the 
college  since  his  undergraduate  years. 

1931 
Edward  J.  Bayon  took  part  in  the  main  pro- 
gram of  the  spring  meeting  of  the  Holyoke 
(Mass.)  Hospital  Aid  Assn.  The  topic  of  the 
program  was  "To  Save  a  River."  Mr.  Bayon, 
who  is  presently  a  director  of  the  New  Eng- 
land Water  Pollution  Assn.,  discussed  what 
was  being  done  locally  to  prevent  and  cor- 
rect pollution  of  the  Connecticut  River. 

1932 

John  W.  Greene  has  been  named  Vice-Presi- 
dent of  Public  Relations  for  the  Sturbridge 
(Mass.)  Fairgrounds  recreational  develop- 
ment. He  will  assume  his  new  position  along 
with  his  present  position  as  executive  direc- 
tor of  the  Central  Massachusetts  Chapter  of 
the  National  Safety  Council.  .  .  CF&I  Steel 
Corp.  has  named  Timothy  D.  Crimmins  to 
the  post  of  Chief  Plant  Engineer  at  their 
Roebling  (N.J.)  Plant.  He  previously  held 
the  position  of  Staff  Engineer. 

1933 

Edwin  L.  Johnson  has  been  elected  Vice- 
President-Engineering  and  Operating  of  The 
Connecticut  Light  and  Power  Co.  .  Arthur 
E.  Smith,  who  recently  received  an  Honor- 
ary Doctor  of  Engineering  Degree  from  WPI, 
has  been  elected  a  Term  Trustee  of  Rensse- 
laer Polytechnic  Institute.  He  is  President 
and  Chief  Administrative  Officer  of  United 
Aircraft  Corp. 

1935 
Raymond  L.  Moeller  retired  March  1,  1969 
after  34  years  of  service  with  General  Elec- 
tric Co.  He  began  with  G.E.  upon  gradua- 
tion and  spent  most  of  his  career  with  them 
at  their  W.  Lynn  (Mass.)  Plant.  He  was  Man- 
ager of  Professional  Employee  Relations  at 
the  time  of  his  retirement.  .  .  William  E. 
Parker,  Jr.  has  retired  as  Chairman  of  the 
Science  Dept.  of  Wethersfield  (Conn.)  High 
School.  He  also  served  on  the  Board  of  Edu- 
cation in  Wethersfield. 

1938 

It  has  been  announced  that  Richard  J.  Don- 
ovan will  chair  the  Water  and  Sewer  Board 
of  Winchester,  Mass.  He  is  president  of  R.J. 
Donovan,     Inc.    in    Winchester.    .    .    Capt. 


George  B.  Cattermole  has  retired  from  the 
U.S.  Navy  and  is  now  self-employed.  He  and 
his  family  live  in  Hamburg,  Pa.  .  .  John  G. 
Despo  is  now  Manager  of  Construction  for 
the  Chicago  District  of  The  U.S.  Steel  Corp. 

1939 

Walter  L.  Abel  was  elected  Vice-President  of 
United  Shoe  Machinery  Corp.  in  Beverly, 
Mass.  He  had  previously  been  in  charge  of 
research.  .  .  Leo  G.  Rourke,  Jr.  has  moved 
to  Martin  Marietta  in  Orlando,  Fla.,  where 
he  is  an  Advanced  Systems  Engineer,  Sen- 
ior. .  .  Roland  N.  Anderson  is  a  Project  En- 
gineer for  the  U.S.  Army  Tank  Automotive 
Command  in  Warren,  Mich.  .  .  John  W. 
Hughes  is  now  on  the  staff  of  the  Oceanog- 
raphy Dept.  at  the  University  of  California 
at  Berkeley. 

1940 
Howard  G.  Freeman  has  received  the  "Heart 
of  the  Commonwealth  Award"  from  the  So- 
ciety for  Advancement  of  Management  at 
their  third  annual  banquet.  President  of  the 
Jamesbury  Corp.  of  Worcester,  he  received 
the  award  in  recognition  of  his  being  "an 
outstanding  business  management  execu- 
tive." .  .  .  Benedict  K.  Kaveckas  writes,  "I 
am  employed  as  Chief  Mechanical  Design 
Engineer  at  a  recently  formed  company, 
Information  Transfer  Corp.,  located  in  Well- 
esley  Hills,  Mass.  .."...  Philip  E.  Meany  has 
been  elected  a  Director  of  The  Heald  Mach- 
ine Co.  in  Worcester.  He  is  also  serving  as 
Vice-President  and  Manager  of  the  Bore- 
Matic  Div.  .  .  Lt.  Col.  Willard  R.  Terry,  Jr. 
(USAF,  Ret.)  is  an  Asst.  Prof,  of  Law  at 
Ferris  State  College  in  Big  Rapids,  Mich. 

1941 

Charles  L.  Hoebel  is  now  Manager  of  Mar- 
keting Research  with  Elliott  Co.,  a  Division 
of  Carrier  Corp.,  in  Jeannette,  Pa.  .  .  It  has 
been  announced  that  Stephen  Hopkins  has 
been  named  Director  of  Engineering  Re- 
search and  Evaluation  at  Texaco  Research 
Center,  Beacon,  N.Y.  He  was  formerly  Su- 
pervisor of  the  Combustion  Section. 

1942 

John  Ford,  Jr.  is  a  Project  Superintendent 
for  Peter  Kiewit  Sons  Co.  in  Richmond, 
Calif.  He  and  his  family  live  in  Corona  del 
Mar.  .  .  William  H.  Moulton  has  joined  the 
Phalo  Corp.  of  Worcester  as  Production 
Control  Manager.  He  was  previously  em- 
ployed by  U.S.  Steel  Corp. 

1943 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  H.  Henry  Ferris,  Jr., 
a  son,  Jeffere  Harold,  on  January  13,  1969. 
The  Ferris'  live  in  La  Jolla,  Calif. 
Nelson  M.  Calkins,  Jr.  has  been  elected  Pres- 
ident of  the  Central  Massachusetts  Chapter 
of  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers.  He  is  presently  employed  as  a 
Senior  Engineer  at  Norton  Co.  of  Worcester. 


In  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  Theodore  H.  Meyer  is 
Manager  of  Quality  Control  for  General 
Electric's  Accessory  Equipment  Dept.  He 
and  his  wife  live  in  Easton,  Conn.  .  .  E.I.  du- 
Pont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  employs  James 
S.  Proctor  at  their  Jackson  Lab  in  Wilming- 
ton, Del.,  as  a  chemist  .  .  .  Jose  L.  Zaragoza 
is  now  a  Quality  &  Reliability  Assurance  En- 
gineer for  the  U.S.  Navy  Dept.  of  Defense, 
in  Charlestown,  Mass.  .  .  Mobil  Oil  Corp.  has 
named  Behrends  Messer,  Jr.  Manager  of  Mar- 
keting Engineering  in  their  New  York  City 
Engineering  Dept. 

1944 
Texaco  has  announced  the  appointment  of 
Everett  M.  Johnson  as  Planning  Director 
(Engineering)  in  the  Scientific  Planning  Sec- 
tion of  the  Managerial  Div.  at  Texaco  Re- 
search Center,  Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  Jesse  R.  Watt 
is  a  Research  Engineer  for  the  National 
Highway  Safety  Bureau.  He  and  his  family 
live  in  Long  Beach,  Calif. 

1945 
Harold  D.  Fleit  is  President  of  Climatrol 
Industries,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of  Worthington 
Corp.  He  is  also  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  Worthington  Air  Coils  Ltd.,  On- 
tario, Canada,  and  the  Air  Conditioning  and 
Refrigeration  Institute.  .  .  Robert  A.  Sten- 
gard  is  on  a  special  assignment  concerning 
urethanes  for  CPC  International  at  Moffett 
Technical  Center,  Argo,  III.  .  .  George  V. 
Uihlein,  Jr.  is  now  Dean  of  Men  at  Loyola 
College  in  Montreal,  Canada. 

1946 

Roger  H.  Brown  is  a  Senior  Engineer  for 
FMA  Inc.,  Div.  of  Cutler— Hammer,  Inc.,  in 
Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  Richard  H.  Merritt, 
Senior  Product  Engineer  and  Manager,  abra- 
sive engineering  at  Avco  Bay  State  Abrasives 
Div.,  was  chairman  of  two  abrasive  machin- 
ing sessions  at  the  American  Society  of  Tool 
and  Manufacturing  Engineering  Conference 
held  at  the  Tool  Exposition  in  Chicago. 

1946B 

John  P.  McCoy  is  a  salesman  for  the  firm  of 
Hopper,  Soliday,  Brooke,  Sheridan,  Inc.  in 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  Dr.  Edward  R.  Funk, 
Professor  at  Ohio  State  University,  was  the 
main  speaker  at  Tech's  Honors  Banquet  for 
dean's  list  students.  He  addressed  the  stu- 
dents about  a  "balance"  he  said  is  necessary 
for  "healthy  nonconformity."  .  .  .  Paul  F. 
Gorman  has  been  appointed  Vice-President 
and  Project  Manager  of  Jackson  &  More- 
land,  a  Div.  of  United  Engineers  &  Construc- 
tors Inc.,  Boston,  Mass.  He  had  previously 
headed  the  Jackson  &  Moreland  power  de- 
partment. .  .  Robert  E.  Willis  is  now  with 
General  Electric  Co.  as  a  Sales  Engineer  in 
St.  Louis,  Mo.  .  .  Theodore  A.  Balaska  is 
now  Director  of  Engineering  &  New  Product 
Development  for  the  Bishop  Manufacturing 
Corp.  in  Cedar  Grove,  N.J.  .  .  Paul  R.  Mul- 


THE  JOURNAL 


35 


laney  is  a  Project  Engineer  for  Revere  Cop- 
per &  Brass  in  Scottsboro,  Ala. 

1946C 

Philip  G.  Duffy  is  a  Marketing  Manager  for 
Fairbanks  Morse,  Weighing  Systems  Div.,  in 
St.  Johnsubry,  Vt. 

1946D 

Leslie  Flood  has  become  Vice-President  of 
Hutton  Publishing  Inc.  of  Manhasset,  N.Y. 
He  and  his  family  live  in  No.  Kingston,  R.I. 

1947 

Robert  Fletcher  is  an  Electronic  Engineer 
for  The  Federal  Aviation  Administration, 
D.O.T.,  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  The  Boeing 
Co.  employs  Robert  S.Y.  Yoseph  as  an  En- 
gineering Manager  in  Seattle,  Wash.  .  .  Two 
members  of  the  class  have  received  Master 
of  Science  degrees:  Wilfred  L.  DeRocher,  Jr. 
from  the  University  of  Colorado  in  Applied 
Mathematics  and  Vincent  A.  Zike  from 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute. 

1948 

Thomas  D.  Hess  writes,  "In  July,  1968  I  was 
promoted  to  Director  of  Engineering,  Fuel 
Injection  Equipment.  My  former  title  was 
Chief  Engineer,  applications.  In  this  new  po- 
sition, the  responsibilities  cover  the  design, 
development  and  customer  application  of  all 
fuel   injection   products  of  Standard  Screw 


Co.,  Hartford  Div."  .  .  .  Edmund  J.  Salate  is 
Supervisory  General  Engineer  for  N.A.S.A. 
Electronic  Research  Center,  Cambridge, 
Mass. 

1949 
Raymond  A.  Brandoli  has  been  elected 
Chairman  of  the  Western  Massachusetts 
Chapter  of  American  Society  for  Quality 
Control.  He  is  Manager  of  Quality  Assist- 
ance at  Studebaker  Worthington  Inc.,  Con- 
struction Equipment  Div.,  in  Holyoke,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Lawrence  C.  Brautigam  is  now  Vice- 
President  of  Diversified  Packaging  Inc.,  Ken- 
sington, Conn.  .  .  The  new  Manager-Product 
Development  at  Modern  Machines  Co.  in 
Portland,  Ore.,  is  Robert  M.  Jodrey.  .  . 
Daniel  L.  McQuillan  is  the  new  Senior  Vice- 
President  of  the  Aerovox  Corp.  He  will  be  in 
charge  of  their  New  Bedford  (Mass.),  Moncks 
Corner  (N.C.).and  Hamilton  (Ont.)  plants  . . 
Dr.  Sidney  Baldwin  is  a  Professor  of  Politi- 
cal Science  at  California  State  College  in 
Fullerton.  His  latest  book,  Poverty  and  Poli- 
tics, has  been  universally  acclaimed  by  the 
professional  journals  in  economics,  history, 
sociology,  and  political  science  .  .  .  Gordon 
S.  Brandes  has  moved  from  Syracuse,  N.Y., 
to  become  Sales  Supervisor  for  the  Northern 
New  England  territory  for  Norton  Co.'s 
grinding  wheel  sales  force.  He  and  his  family 
will   live  in  Topsfield,   Mass.   .  .  Robert  E. 


Miller,  Jr.  is  Division  Manager  for  Connecti- 
cut Light  &  Power  .  .  .  Arthur  H.  Dinsmoor 
is  District  Supervisor  for  Marshall  R.  Young 
Oil  Co.  in  Midland,  Texas  .  .  .  Donald  Taylor 
has  resigned  as  President  of  George  F.  Meyer 
Manufacturing  Div.  of  "Automatic"  Sprin- 
kler Corp.  of  America  and  has  accepted  the 
position  of  Executive  Vice  -  President  of 
Nordberg  Manufacturing  Co.  in  Milwaukee, 
Wis. 

1950 
David  G.  Humphrey  is  now  a  Sales  Engineer 
for  the  Sprague  Meter  Co.,  Div.  of  Textron, 
Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  .  Charles  D.  Seaver  is  an 
Architectural  Mechanical  Engineer  for  the 
University  of  Illinois  in  the  office  of  the 
Campus  Architect  .  .  .Alexander  T.  Cyganie- 
wicz  is  Chief  Estimator  for  S.J.  Curry  &  Co., 
Inc.  in  Albany,  Ga. 

1951 

Newly  elected  Vice-President  of  Diesel  Con- 
struction, Div.  of  Carl  A.  Morse,  Inc., 
Donald  A.  Knowlton,  will  be  in  charge  of 
the  company's  Boston  operations  .  .  .  John 
B.  Seguin  is  the  District  Sales  Supervisor  for 
Norton  Co.  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  Theodore 
A.  Mellor  should  be  proud  of  his  son  Theo- 
dore, Jr.,  who  with  another  youth  helped 
prevent  a  Worcester  girl  from  being  assault- 
ed.  Police  commended  Mellor  and  Dunbar 


ENGINEERING   INGENUITY  . 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Design  a  machine  that  grinds  the  "nonrotatables"  .  .  . 
seem  impossible?  Not  when  Heald  engineering  ingenuity 
is  used.  The  new  Planetary  Model  5650  precision  grinds 
parts  that  are  too  big,  too  heavy,  and  too  awkward  to 
rotate. 

Instead  of  rotating  the  workpiece,  it  rotates  the  wheel- 
head  in  orbit  around  the  centerline  of  the  surface  to  be 
ground.  And  the  wheel  feeds  into  the  work  simply  by 
changing  the  orbital  radius. 

The  Model  5650  grinds  I.D.'s,  O.D.'s  and  faces  on  work- 
pieces  of  practically  any  size,  shape  or  weight.  This  versa- 
tile machine  can  be  equipped  to  grind  bores  from  "\'A"  to 
14'/j"  in  diameter,  with  maximum  hole  lengths  up  to  34" 
depending  on  bore  diameter.  When  it  comes  to  engineer- 
ing ingenuity  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald,  where  metalwork- 
ing  needs  meet  new  ideas. 

THE     HEALD     MACHINE     COMPANY 

ASSOCIATE  OF  THE  CINCINNATI  MILLING  MACHINE  COMPANY 

Worcester,   Massachusetts  01606     U.S.A. 


36 


THE    JOURNAL 


(the  other  youth)  for  "getting  involved  to 
help  this  girl." 

1952 

John  W.  Diachenko  is  a  Senior  Sales  Engin- 
eer for  the  Torin  Corp.  in  Torrington, 
Conn.  He  and  his  family  now  live  in  Sims- 
bury,  Conn.  .  .  Raytheon  has  named  Donald 
M.  Krauss  Manager  of  Product  Development 
for  the  Ocean  Systems  and  Equipment 
Dept.  at  their  Submarine  Signal  Div.  in 
Portsmouth,  R.I.  He  and  his  family  live  in 
Bristol,  R.I.  .  .  William  T.  Mehalick  is  Area 
Supervisor  for  E.I.  duPont  deNemours  & 
Co.,  Inc.  in  Circleville,  Ohio. 

1953 

Married:  Lucian  H.  Millard  to  Miss  Theresa 
Vera  Bryce  of  Erie,  Pa.,  on  May  24,  1969. 
Lucian  is  employed  by  General  Electric  Co. 
in  Erie,  Pa. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen  J.  Abrams, 
a  daughter,  Sharon  Lynn,  in  May,  1969.  He 
is  at  Riverside  Research  Institute  in  New 
York,  N.Y.  .  .  Alfred  C.  Bafaro  is  President 
of  Albro  Construction  &  Engineering  Corp. 
of  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  We  received  a  note 
from  John  E.  Flynn:  "My  wife,  Mary,  and  I 
are  enjoying  our  Monsanto  International  as- 
signment immensely  (plant  manager  of  Mon- 
santo's  Oakville  operation  near  Toronto, 
Ont.)  Now  have  two  children  ..."...  Joseph 
A.  Holmes  has  been  appointed  Chief  Chemist 
of  the  Color  Picture  Tube  Div.  of  Admiral 
Corp.  He  has  been  with  Admiral  since 
1964.  .  .  Texas  Gulf  Sulphur  Co.  of  Aurora, 
N.C.  employs  Edward  Markarian  as  a  Main- 
tenance Engineer-Mine.  .  .  Over  the  summer. 
Dr.  Herbert  Slotnick  (M.S.)  taught  a  course 
to  assist  greater  Hartford  industrial  chemists 
called  "Colloids  and  Surface  Chemistry." 
Dr.  Slotnick  is  an  Assoc.  Prof,  of  Chemistry 
at  Central  Connecticut  State  College.  .  . 
Mobil  Research  and  Development  Corp.  has 
announced  the  appointment  of  Paul  W.  Sny- 
der, Jr.  as  Supervisor  of  the  Engineering 
Research  and  Development  Group  at  their 
Paulsboro  (N.J.)  Laboratory.  .  .W.P.I.  Prof. 
Fred  N.  Webster,  '39,  writes  that  "While  in 
Iceland  on  a  tour  this  past  summer  my  wife 
and  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  be  able  to 
have  dinner  one  night  with  Jon  Stein- 
grimsson  and  his  wife.  Jon  is  with  the  Na- 
tional Electrical  Power  Board  in  Iceland,  and 
was  kind  enough  to  take  us  on  a  personally 
conducted  tour  of  Reykjavik  one  afternoon. 
Among  the  sights  were  a  new  gas  turbine 
power  plant  that  was  being  installed  in  con- 
nection with  power  service  for  a  new  alumi- 
num plant,  and  also  Jon's  new  home  which 
he  is  building  in  one  of  the  suburbs  of  the 
city.  Jon  wished  to  be  remembered  to  all  his 
friends  here  on  the  Hill."  .  .  .  Richard  R. 
Carlson  has  been  appointed  Project  Engineer 
in  the  Plant  Engineering  Dept.  of  Avco  Bay 
State  Abrasives  Div.,  Westboro,  Mass. 


1954 

William  H.  Hills  remains  with  Monsanto  Co., 
at  their  Chemstrand  Research  Center,  Inc.  in 
Durham,  N.C.  He  is  Head  of  the  Engineering 
Dept.  there.  .  .  Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr.  writes, 
"In  May,  I  accepted  the  position  of  Director 
of  Manufacturing,  Military  Products  Div., 
Hamilton  Watch  Co.,  in  Lancaster,  Pa.  In 
my  new  position,  I  am  responsible  for  the 
manufacture  and  support  functions  for  the 
production  of  Ordnance  fuses  and  allied 
devices.    .    ." 

1955 
John  E.  Edfors  is  Section  Head  of  the  Hard- 
ware Technology  Dept.  of  Honeywell  Inc.  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  Peter  H.  Horstmann  has 
been  promoted  to  Vice-President  of  Engin- 
eering at  Coppus  Engineering  Corp.  in  Wor- 
cester, Mass.  .  .  Raynald  P.  Lemieux  is  Asst. 
Manager  of  Technical  Service  &  Sales,  Petro- 
leum Catalysts,  for  the  Engelhard  Minerals 
&  Chemicals  Corp.  in  Newark,  N.J. 

1956 

Howard  H.  Brown,  Manager  of  the  Motor 
Control  Div.  of  the  Vee-Arc  Corp.,  has  been 
elected  to  the  firm's  Board  of  Directors.  He 
and  his  family  live  in  Westboro,  Mass.  .  . 
William  E.  Lloyd  tells  us,  "Still  employed 
by  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.  Recently  promot- 
ed to  Assistant  General  Mechanical  Foreman 
in  the  Coke  Dept.  at  the  Johnstown,  Pa. 
plant.  Have  three  boys  aged,  9,  6,  and  3." 

1957 

Allan  T.  Devault  has  been  named  Manager 
of  the  newly  created  Control  Products  Line 
by  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Itek  Corp.  employs  Robert  A.  White  as  a 
Senior  Manufacturing  Engineer  in  Lexing- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  Richard  P.  Johnson  has  re- 
ceived his  MBA  from  Northeastern  Univer- 
sity. He  is  employed  as  a  Product  Sales  En- 
gineer for  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass. 

1958 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Norman  J.  Taupeka, 
a  daughter,  Mary  Ann,  on  July  14,  1969. 
Norm  and  his  family  live  in  Eatontown, 
N.J. 

Richard  H.  Campbell  is  now  at  David  Clark 
Co.  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  as  a  Consulting 
Electro-Acoustical  Engineer.  .  .  Frederic  F. 
Cossick  is  presently  employed  by  Burgess  & 
Behr  of  Carmel,  N.Y.  as  a  land  surveyor.  .  . 
DeSoto,  Inc.  has  announced  the  promotion 
of  Michael  M.  Galbraith  to  Production  Man- 
ager of  their  Chicago  Heights  Plant,  Chemi- 
cal Coatings  Div.  .  .  Robert  H.  MacGillivray 
is  in  Fukui-ken,  Japan,  where  he  is  a  Field 
Engineer  in  Nuclear  Power  for  General  Elec- 
tric Technical  Services  Co.  .  .  Harry  R. 
Rydstrom  is  District  Plant  Superintendent 
for  the  Bell  Telephone  Co.  in  Oakmont,  Pa. 
.   .   .  Norman  J.   Taupeka  was  awarded  the 


U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command  certificate 
of  educational  achievement.  He  works  for 
the  U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command's  Com- 
munications-Automatic Data  Processing  Lab., 
Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  Larry  Dworkin  has 
received  his  Ph.D.  in  Electrical  Engineering 
from  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn. 
.  .  .  Gabriel  N.  Gaulin  is  an  Installation  En- 
gineer for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  Div.  of 
United  Aircraft  Corp.,  in  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  Marian  C.  Knight  has  received  his 
M.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering  from  North- 
eastern University.  He  is  employed  as  an  Ad- 
vanced Development  Engineer  by  Sylvania 
Electronic  Systems.  .  .  Peter  J.  Zanini,  Jr.  is 
a  Power  Supply  Engineer  for  Hi-G  Inc.  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

1959 

Married:  Charles  N.  Coniaris  to  Miss  Eileen 
Theresa  Feeley  on  May  4,  1968.  He  is  pres- 
ently an  Airport  Designer  for  the  Port 
Authority  of  New  York  and  is  also  study- 
ing for  his  Masters  in  Transportation  Plan- 
ning at  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn. 
Robert  A.  Bleau  is  an  Electronic  Engineer 
for  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua,  N.H.  .  . 
Computer  Data  Systems  employs  Fred  D. 
Blonder  as  a  Division  Manager  in  Miami, 
Fla.  .  .  V.  James  Cinquina,  Jr.  is  a  Design 
Engineer  at  St.  Regis  Paper  Co.  in  W.  Nyack, 
N.Y.  .  .  Two  members  of  the  class  have 
joined  the  clergy.  Rev.  Harvey  E.  Egan,  S.J. 
was  ordained  to  the  priesthood  in  the  Soci- 
ety of  Jesus  (Jesuits)  by  Richard  Cardinal 
Cushing,  Archbishop  of  Boston  on  May  31, 
1969.  .  .  Richard  E.  Thompson  graduated 
magna  cum  laude  with  a  bachelor  of  divinity 
degree  from  Drew  University  on  May  31, 
1969.  He  has  been  named  associate  pastor 
of  Wesley  Methodist  Church  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Walter  M.  Gasek  has  received  his  MBA  de- 
gree from  Clark  University.  He  is  presently 
General  Manager  of  Kenmore  Research, 
Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  Frank  B.  Goudey,  Jr. 
is  the  owner  of  his  own  construction  com- 
pany, Goudey  Construction  Co.,  Inc.  in 
E.  Bridgewater,  Mass. .  .  Chester  F.  Jacobson 
is  a  Design  Engineer  for  General  Electric  Co. 
in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  David  S.  Miller  has 
become  Plant  Manager  and  Asst.  Div.  Mana- 
ger of  Sprague  Electric  Co.,  Filter  Div., 
Annapolis  Jet.,  Md.  .  .  Norman  L.  Monks 
and  David  A.  Sawin  received  promotions 
from  Hobbs  Manufacturing  Co.  Monks  will 
be  Manager  of  the  Manufacturing  Div.  while 
Sawin  will  head  the  Planning  Div.  .  .  Francis 
J.  Pakulski  is  a  Development  Engineer  for 
the  IBM  Corp.  in  Essex  Jet.,  Vt.  .  .  David  H. 
Treadwell,  Jr.  has  gone  into  partnership  to 
form  the  new  firm  of  Panatek,  a  design  and 
engineering  oriented  organization.  He  and 
his  family  live  in  Foxboro,  Mass.  .  .  George 
B.  Constantine  is  a  Sales  Engineer  for  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  in  So.  Portland,  Me.  .  . 
Robert  W.   Hoag  received  his  MBA  degree 


THE   JOURNAL 


37 


from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  He 
was  recently  promoted  to  Senior  Design  En- 
gineer, Energy  Products  Dept.,  Texas  Instru- 
ments Inc.  in  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  Robert  A. 
Steen  is  President  of  Recreational  Enter- 
prises, Inc.,  located  in  Killington,  Vt. 
1960 

Raymond  P.  Abraham  has  become  manager 
of  the  new  downtown  store  of  Al  Abraham 
in  Norwich,  Conn.  .  .  The  Carlson  Corp.  in 
Cochituate,  Mass.  employs  George  S.  Beebe 
as  a  project  planner.  .  .  Dr.  Robert  A.  Con- 
drate  writes:  "I  am  now  an  assistant  profes- 
sor of  spectroscopy  at  Alfred  University, 
Alfred,  N.Y.  My  first  Ph.D.  student  has 
passed  his  final  oral  exam.  Besides  our 
daughter,  Barbara,  we  also  have  a  son,  Rob- 
ert, Jr.,  who  is  now  two  years  old."  .  .  . 
Frank  A.  Droms,  Jr.  has  received  his  M.S.  in 
industrial  administration  at  Union  College, 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  David  A.  Johnson  re- 
mains in  the  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  System 
but  has  moved  to  Oak  Brook,  III.,  where  he 
is  a  Technical  Sales  Representative.  .  .  The 
new  Manager  of  Engineering  at  Trump-Ross 
Industrial  Controls,  Inc.,  No.  Billerica,  Mass. 
is  Peter  A.  Lajoie.  .  .  Warrant  Officer  Robert 
M.  Neal  will  serve  in  Vietnam  for  the  next 
year.  .  .  Robert  R.  Nelson  is  employed  by 
The  General  Electric  Co.  of  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  .  .  The  Royal  Thai  Army  employs 
Thavalya  Prapapant  as  a  structural  engineer. 
.  .  .  Harry  F.  Ray  has  become  manufactur- 
ing representative  and  start-up  superintend- 
ent for  3  new  rubber  chemical  units  for 
Monsanto  Co.  in  Nitro,  W.  Va.  .  .  H.  David 
Sutton  is  a  Sr.  Electrical  Engineer  at  Sanders 
Associates,  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  James  F. 
Teixeira  remains  at  Sylvania  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  where  he  is  now  an  Advanced  Re- 
search Engineer.  He  has  been  awarded  a 
patent  for  an  electronic  device  designed  to 
aid  the  entering  of  data  in  a  computer.  .  . 
Shepard  B.  Brodie  received  his  M.S.  in  Aero- 
space Engineering  and  Mechanical  Engineer- 
ing from  the  University  of  Arizona  in  1967 
and  1968  respectively.  He  is  presently  em- 
ployed as  a  Staff  Engineer  for  the  Martin 
Marietta  Corp.  in  Denver,  Col.  .  .  John  R. 
Haavisto  is  a  Technical  Editor  for  the 
Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  in  Fullerton,  Calif. 

1961 
Married:  Ralph  M.  Dykstra  to  Miss  Connie 
Kaye  Brown  of  E.  Alton,  III.,  on  April  12, 
1969.  The  couple  will  live  in  New  York 
where  Ralph  is  a  Flight  Engineer  for  Trans 
World  Airlines. 

Mark  Britanisky  is  program  manager  and 
manager  of  program  control  at  Fairchild  - 
Hiller,  Stratos  Div.,  in  Bay  Shore,  N.Y.  .  . 
Philip  M.  Crimmins  is  now  at  Oxford  Paper 
Co.'s  New  York  City  office  where  he  is  a 
Sales  Engineer.  .  .  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 
has  named  Martin  S.  Cordon  manager  of  its 
Control  Systems  Group.  He  and  his  family 
live  in  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  Allen  L.  Johnson 


is  an  Electronic  Contract  Engineer  for  Pol- 
lack &  Skan  of  Chicago,  111.  .  .  Dr.  Arthur  S. 
Kamlet  has  received  his  Ph.D.  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan.  Arthur  works  for  Bell 
Telephone  Labs  in  Whippany,  N.J.  .  .  Ward 
D.  MacKenzie  is  Product  Development  Man- 
ager for  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in  Mayn- 
ard, Mass.  .  .  Alan  C.  Novaco  is  a  Sr. 
Systems  Engineer  for  Westinghouse  in  Balti- 
more, Md.  .  .  Philip  Hankins  Inc.  in  Arling- 
ton, Mass.  employs  David  Q.  Olson  as  a 
Programmer/Analyst.  .  .  Pierce  E.  Rowe  is 
employed  as  a  Civil  Engineer  by  Pittsburgh 
DesMoines  Steel  Co.,  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho.  .  . 
Dr.  Robert  E.  Seamon  has  joined  the  staff  of 
Los  Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory  in  New 
Mexico  to  work  with  the  Reactor  Develop- 
ment Div.  .  .  Robert  H.  Whyte  is  working 
for  General  Electric  in  Burlington,  Vt.  .  . 
W.  Dana  Wilcock  received  his  M.S.  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  Major  Norman 
I.  Ginsburg  is  now  Chief,  Television  Opera- 
tions, Armed  Forces  Radio  &  Television 
Service,  in  Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  John  H. 
Herron  has  been  appointed  Director  of  Man- 
ufacturing for  the  Fairfield  Optical  Co.,  Inc. 
in  Mansfield,  Mass.  .  .  Charles  S.  Cook  has 
received  his  M.S.  degree  in  Transportation 
Planning  from  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn.  .  .  Robert  W.  Schomber  is  Asst. 
to  the  President  of  the  Pacemaker  Corp.  in 
Egg  Harbor  City,  N.J. 

1962 

Married:  Laurent  A.  Beauregard  to  Miss 
Evylene  N.  Mehl  of  Eatontown,  N.J.,  on 
June  9,  1968.  Larry  is  working  towards  a 
Ph.D.  at  Indiana  University  in  the  field  of 
History  &  Philosophy  of  Science.  He  writes, 
"The  whole  idea  is  to  get  a  better  under- 
standing of  physics  using  its  history  and 
philosophy  as  tools." 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  L.  Goodman, 
their  third  son,  William  Louis,  on  April  18, 
1968.  Dave  has  been  named  Plant  Manager 
of  the  Chlorox  Co.  in  Chicago.  .  .  Edward  B. 
Allen,  Jr.  is  a  Product  Planner  with  RCA 
Information  SysteVi  Div.,  Cherry  Hill,  N.J.  .  . 
William  A.  Brutsch  has  left  the  Air  Force 
and  is  presently  employed  by  Draper  Div., 
North  American  Rockwell  Corp.,  in  Hope- 
dale,  Mass.  as  a  Product  Development  En- 
gineer. .  .  David  W.  France  is  a  Project 
Engineer  for  United  Shoe  Machinery  Corp.'s 
Development  Labs  in  Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  Com- 
puter Transceiver  System,  Inc.,  employs 
Thomas  J.  Tully  of  Mahwah,  N.J.,  as  senior 
development  engineer.  .  .  Ralph  H.  Griswold 
is  an  Engineer  K.A.D.  for  Eastman  Kodak 
Co.  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  Dr.  James  D. 
Quirk  received  his  Ph.D.  from  the  University 
of  New  Hampshire.  He  is  a  Professor  at 
Keene  State  College  and  is  also  President  of 
Quirk's  Marine  Rentals  in  Keene,  N.H. 

1963 
Married:   Joseph    V.    Beaulac  to  Miss  Eliza- 
beth   Rita    Mills    of    Lunenburg,    Mass.,   on 


April  19,  1969.  Paul  G.  Abajian  was  best 
man.  Joe  is  a  group  leader  at  Raytheon  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  W.  James  Budzyna  to 
Miss  Kathleen  Ann  Kelliher  of  Whitinsville, 
Mass.,  on  June  7,  1969.  They  will  live  in 
Whitinsville. 

Dr.  Paul  G.  Abajian  has  been  appointed  an 
Assistant  Professor  of  Chemistry  at  Johnson 
State  College,  Johnson,  Vt. .  .  Stone  &  Web- 
ster Engineering  Corp.  of  Boston  employs 
Henry  A.  Dowgielewicz,  Jr.  as  a  Cost  Engin- 
eer. .  .  Norman  Fineberg  is  now  attending 
Law  School  at  Boston  University.  .  .  Richard 
A.  Garvais  is  at  the  Fall  Brook  Plant  of  the 
Corning  Glass  Works,  Corning,  N.Y.,  as  Man- 
ager of  the  Process  Engineering  Dept.  .  . 
Capt.  Philip  M.  Howe  is  a  research  physicist 
at  the  U.S.  Army  Ballistic  Research  Labora- 
tories located  at  the  Aberdeen  Proving 
Ground,  Md.  .  .  John  B.  Lojko  is  a  Market- 
ing Representative  for  Service  Bureau  Corp., 
a  subsidiary  of  IBM  Corp.,  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  Thomas  M.  Owens  is  employed  by 
Norton  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  .  Dr.  Daniel  J. 
Pender  has  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  Medical  School  and  will  in- 
tern at  the  Pennsylvania  Hospital.  .  .  Don- 
ald M.  Wood,  II  has  started  his  own  busi- 
ness, Wood's  Marine  Supplies,  in  Lake  Park, 
Fla.  .  .  Dr.  Robert  E.  Murphy  is  now  Asst. 
Astronomer  at  the  University  of  Hawaii 
Institute  of  Astronomy.  He  received  his 
Ph.D.  last  February  from  Case  Western  Re- 
serve University.  .  .  James  D.  Clark  is  New 
Product  Planner  for  the  Xerox  Corp.,  Com- 
munications Product  Div.  in  Henrietta,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  Robert  S.  Magnant  is  a  Systems  Engin- 
eer and  Technical  Manager  for  U.S.  Army 
ECOM  at  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  George  P. 
Vittas  received  his  M.S.  degree  in  Transpor- 
tation Planning  from  Polytechnic  Institute 
of  Brooklyn.  .  .  Roger  M.  Winans  is  an 
Actuarial  Asst.  for  the  Travelers  Insurance 
Co.  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
1964 
Married:  Alfred  H.  Hemingway,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Julie  Ellen  Murphy  of  Framingham,  Mass. 
on  June  10,  1967.  He  is  now  studying  Pat- 
ent Law  at  Stanford  University  Law  School, 
Stanford,  Calif.  .  .  Thomas  S.  Baron  to  Miss 
Dorothy  Serafin  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
April  26,  1969.  Tom  is  a  Junior  Civil  En- 
gineer for  the  Metropolitan  District  Com- 
mission, Construction  Div.,  Boston,  Mass. 
He  is  now  back  at  Tech  on  a  one  year's  edu- 
cational leave  of  absence,  working  for  his 
master's  in  civil  engineering.  .  .  ManMohan 
S.  Gill,  MS,  to  Miss  Mary  Jane  Perry  of 
W.  Swanzy,  N.H.,  in  1967.  He  is  employed 
as  a  Mechanical  Engineer  in  the  Research  and 
Development  Center  of  the  General  Electric 
Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Bruce  M.  Juhola  is  a  Technical  Sales  Rep- 
resentative for  Calgon  Corp.,  Redwood  City, 
Calif.  .  .  Ensign  David  H.  Laananen,  who 
received  his  Ph.D.  from  Northeastern  Univer- 


38 


THE    JOURNAL 


sity  last  year,  is  now  a  Scientific  Officer 
for  the  U.S.  Navy,  Office  of  Naval  Research, 
in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  Church  and  Dwight 
Co.,  Inc.  of  Syracuse,  N.Y.  recently  pro- 
moted M.  Stephen  Lajoie  to  Manager  of  Re- 
search and  Development.  .  .  Dr.  Frank  A. 
Marafioti,  MS,  has  received  his  Ph.D.  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut  and  is  now 
employed  by  General  Dynamics,  Electric 
Boat  Div.,  as  a  Research  Specialist.  .  .  Robert 
H.  Morse  was  recently  appointed  as  Manager- 
Sales  Promotion  for  MB  Electronics,  Div.  of 
Textron  Electronics  Inc.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Dr.  Robert  A.  Peura  has  received  his 
Ph.D.  in  Biomedical  Engineering  from  Iowa 
State  University.  .  .  James  C.  Ward,  Jr.  is  an 
Engineer  for  the  Northeast  Utilities  Service 
Co.  in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  The  State  of  New 
York  employs  William  H.  Clark,  III  as  a 
Research  Engineer  at  the  State  Campus, 
Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  Peter  Baker  is  now  in  Saigon 
where  he  is  on  assignment  for  the  Pacific 
Architects  &  Engineers  of  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.  .  .  During  the  summer  we  received  a 
letter  from  Lt.  Paul  B.  Watson  bringing  us 
up  to  date:  "Right  now  I'm  on  leave,  about 
to  start  flying  the  C— 141  Starlifter  at  Dover 
AFB,  Del.  Since  joining  the  USAF  in  January 
1968,  I've  completed  OTS,  flight  school, 
survival  school,  and  the  C— 141  co-pilot 
course  at  Altus  AFB,  Okla." 

1965 

Married:  Patrick  T.  Moran  to  Miss  Mimi 
Moylan  of  Hammond,  Ind.  in  June  of  1969. 
Pat  received  his  M.S.  in  Industrial  Engineer- 
ing from  Purdue  in  June  also.  .  .  Thomas  P. 
Arcari  to  Miss  Marie  Bartumioli  of  New 
Britain,  Conn.,  on  June  14,  1969.  Tom  is  a 
Structural  Design  Engineer  for  Combustion 
Engineering  in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  Wayne  D. 
Pobzeznik  to  Miss  Patricia  Ann  Ciuffreda  of 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  on  June  21,  1969.  Wayne 
is  employed  as  a  Field  Engineer  by  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Pittsfield. 
Born:  To  Lt.  and  Mrs.  William  E.  Zetter- 
lund,  their  first  child,  Stefanie  Lauren,  on 
October  24,  1968.  Bill  is  presently  Public 
Works  Officer  and  Resident  Officer  in 
Charge  of  Construction  at  the  U.S.  Naval 
Radio  Station,  Isabela,  Puerto  Rico. 
There  are  several  members  of  the  Class  who 
are  now  in  the  Armed  Forces:  Pvt.  Lee  A. 
Chouinard,  stationed  at  Fort  Sam  Houston, 
Texas;  Lt.  David  B.  Herrmann,  Jr.,  based  at 
the  U.S.  Naval  Base,  Gulfport,  Miss.;  Capt. 
Frank  J.  Pinhack,  Jr.,  decorated  with  the 
Distinguished  Flying  Cross  at  Nha  Trang 
AB,  Vietnam,  will  soon  be  stationed  at  Otis 
AFB;  Army  Capt.  John  M.  Porter  who  is 
presently  in  Vietnam  and  recently  received 
the  Air  Medal  near  Bac  Lieu;  Lt.  (U.S.  Naval 
Reserve)  Francis  X.  Watson,  FPO  San  Fran- 
cisco, Calif.;  Lt.  William  H.  Wyman,  who 
left  the  Navy  in  September  after  four  years 
in  the  Submarine  Force;  and  Capt.  John  G. 


Zwyner,  stationed  at  Stewart  AFB,  New- 
burgh,  N.Y.  .  .  George  W.  Cordes,  Jr.  is  pres- 
ently employed  as  a  Development  Engineer 
at  Hamilton  Standard,  Div.  of  United  Air- 
craft Corp.  in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  Don- 
ald G.  Franklin  is  working  for  the  U.S.  Gen- 
eral Accounting  Office  in  Washington  as  an 
Accountant-Auditor.  .  .  The  U.S.  Army  em- 
ploys William  S.  Hagar  as  a  Mechanical  En- 
gineer. .  .  Charles  F.  Hunnicutt  is  a  member 
of  the  Technical  Staff  at  Bell  Telephone 
Labs  in  Whippany,  N.J.  He  received  his  MS 
from  R.P.I,  last  year.  .  .  Robert  D.  Klauber 
writes,  "Got  my  M.S.  in  M.E.  from  Syracuse 
University.  Working  for  last  16  months  at 
MIT  Instrumentation  Lab  on  inertial  guid- 
ance system  for  Apollo  Project.  Planning  to 
take  at  least  a  year  off  as  of  Ju  ne  1 ,  1 969  to 
travel  around  the  world."  .  .  .  Harvey  J. 
Rosenfield,  MS,  is  now  working  as  a  Market- 
ing Representative  for  IBM  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  After  a  three  year  training  program 
with  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Public  Roads,  Jef- 
frey W.  Thwing  is  now  working  in  their  Arl- 
ington, Va.  office  as  a  Highway  Engineer.  .  . 
Earle  R.  Weaver,  M.S.,  is  an  Engineer  with 
General  Electric  Co.  of  So.  Portland,  Me.  .  . 
Two  members  of  the  Class  have  received 
M.S.  degrees  from  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn:  Joseph  J.  Osvald  in  System  Sci- 
ence and  Takashi  Tsujita  in  Mechanical  En- 
gineering. .  .  Philip  B.  Ryan  is  an  MBA  can- 
didate at  the  Harvard  Graduate  School  of 
Business  Administration.  .  .  Thomas  F. 
Moriarty  has  received  his  Ph.D.  in  Engineer- 
ing from  the  University  of  Illinois.  He  will 
be  associated  with  Gulf  Atomic  in  San 
Diego,   Calif. 

1966 
Married:  Michael  R.  Mauro  to  Miss  Elaine 
M.  Shepard  of  Guilford,  Conn.,  on  May  17, 
1969.   .   .   Ronald  Swers  to  Miss  Gwen  M. 


Herman  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on  May  18, 
1969.  Ron  is  a  Mechanical  Engineer  with 
General  Electric  Co.,  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  Jona- 
than H.  Pardee  to  Miss  Susan  L.  Matthews 
of  Media,  Pa.,  on  June  22,  1968.  Jon  is  a 
Service  Representative  for  E.  I,  DuPont  de 
Nemours  Co.  in  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  David 
H.  Stone  to  Miss  Marie  Frances  Fiefhaus  of 
Levittown,  Pa.  on  April  12,  1969.  Dave  re- 
ceived his  M.S.  in  Chemical  Engineering  last 
year  from  Cornell  Institute  and  is  employed 
by  Rohm  &  Haas  Co.  of  Bristol,  Pa.  as  a  Re- 
search Engineer.  .  .  Frederick  F.  Valego,  Jr. 
to  Miss  Martha  Ann  Doros  of  No.  Brook- 
field,  Mass.,  in  June  1969.  Fred  is  working 
for  Monsanto  Chemical  Co.  in  Springfield, 
Mass.,  as  a  Chemical  Process  Development 
Engineer. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gary  P.  Cassery,  a 
daughter,  Karen  Gail,  on  May  21,  1969. 
Gary  is  a  Graduate  Student  at  the  University 
of  Tennessee  working  towards  an  MBA.  .  . 
To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Andrew  J.  Kudarauskas,  a 
son,  Thomas  A.,  on  September  22,  1968. 
Andy  is  still  working  for  Niagara  Mohawk 
Power  Corp.  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  as  Supervisor 
of  Natural  Gas  Construction  and  Mainten- 
ance. . .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donald  W.  Petersen, 
Jr.,  their  first  child,  Gail  Kristin,  in  Septem- 
ber of  1968.  Don  is  now  working  as  a  Sys- 
tems Engineer  for  Dialog  Computing,  Inc., 
Milford,  Conn.  .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jesse  R. 
Stalker,  Jr.,  their  first  son,  Kevin  David,  who 
is  now  one  year  old.  Jesse  has  resumed  work 
after  two  years  in  the  Army,  with  Goodyear 
Tire  &  Rubber  Co.,  Windsor,  Vt. 
Lt.  Garner  W.  Duvall,  Jr.  is  now  serving  in 
the  U.S.  Navy.  .  .  Western  Electric  Co.  of 
No.  Andover,  Mass.,  employs  A  Ralph  Fiore 
as  a  Development  Engineer.  Ralph  received 
his  MS  in  engineering  management  from 
Northeastern  this  year.  .  .  Ronald  F.  Naventi 


MORGAN 

Continuous   Rolling   Mills 

for  Billets,  Merchant  Bars,  Small 

Shapes,  Skelp,  Hoops  and  Strips, 

Cotton  Ties,  Wire  Rods 

Producer  Gas  Machines     Wire  Mill  Equipment 

Combustion  Controls  for  Open  Hearth  Furnaces 

and  Soaking  Pits 

MORGAN   CONSTRUCTION    CO. 

WORCESTER,  MASS. 


THE  JOURNAL 


39 


is  an  Application  Engineering  Specialist  for 
The  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass.  .  .  William 
J.  Remillong,  Jr.  is  employed  by  American 
Cyanamid  Co.  of  Bound  Brook,  N.J.,  as  an 
Analytical  Project  Chemist.  .  .  Capt.  Shelton 
B.  Wicker,  Jr.  is  presently  stationed  at  Fort 
Richardson,  Alaska.  .  .  Peter  K.  Sommer  has 
begun  studies  at  the  Washington  College  of 
Law  of  the  American  University  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  He  hopes  to  specialize  in  Patent 
Law. 

1967 
Married:  Richard  H.  Court,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Sandra  L.  Wright  on  May  18,  1968.  Dick  is  a 
Research  Assistant  at  Geigy  Chemical  Corp. 
in  Ardsley,  N.Y.  .  .  Capt.  John  P.  Dow  to 
Miss  Vickie  Lee  Herold  on  February  22, 
1969  in  Frankfurt,  West  Germany.  John  has 
just  started  a  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam.  .  . 
William  R.  Hyatt  to  Miss  Cynthia  Marie  Vin- 
berg  of  Leawood,  Kansas,  on  February  8, 
1969.  Bill  is  now  with  Ebasco  Services,  Inc. 
in  Sioux  City,  Iowa.  .  .  Lt.  Peter  H  Tallman 
to  Miss  Ellen  Marie  Maher  of  Munhall,  Pa., 
on  May  17,  1969.  Pete  is  presently  at  the 
Pentagon,  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  Ralph  C.  Ole- 
sen  to  Miss  Gale  Madeline  Haznar  of  Chico- 
pee,  Mass.,  on  June  21,  1969.  Ralph  con- 
tinues his  studies  at  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn  while  he  works  for  Hazeltine 
Corp.  of  Greenlawn,  N.Y.  .  .  Harry  E.  Tay- 
lor to  Miss  Lynda  Hope  Weston  of  W.  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  on  May  31,  1969.  Harry  re- 
ceived his  M.S.  degree  in  engineering  from 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  O.  Messer, 
a  boy,  William  Joseph,  on  March  24,  1969. 
Bill  is  presently  a  Technical  Representative 
for  Hercules,  Inc.,  Environmental  Services 
Div.,  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Charles  J.  Sisitsky,  a  daughter,  Tamar,  on 
May  19,  1969.  Charlie  received  his  Master  of 
Community  Planning  degree  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rhode  Island  and  is  currently 
a  Project  Planner  for  Roy  F.  Weston,  Inc.  in 
West  Chester,  Pa. 

John  R.  Daugherty  is  working  as  a  Mathema- 
tician/Analyst for  the  U.S.  Government  in 
Washington,  D.C.  .  .  Edwards  &  Kelcey  of 
Boston  employs  Steven  J.  Frymer  as  an 
Assistant  Civil  Engineer.  .  .  2nd  Lt.  Wayne 
C.  Garth  has  been  transferred  from  Hollo- 
mon  AFB  to  the  Satellite  Control  Facilities 
in  Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  Robert  F.  Hellen  is 
a  Graduate  Student  at  Cornell  University.  .  . 
Frank  T.  Jodaitis  is  now  serving  his  active 
duty  in  the  Army,  and  will  soon  be  serving 
in  Vietnam.  .  .  David  W.  Loomis  has  received 
his  M.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering  from  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  and  is  now  a  Sen- 
ior Research  Engineer  at  Sylvania  Electric 
Corp.  .  .  Arnold  R.  Miller  is  now  an  Elec- 
tronic Design  Engineer  for  the  Eagle  Signal 
Co.  .  .  John  E.  Sonne  has  received  his  M.S. 
degree    in      Biomedical     Engineering    from 


Drexel  Institute  of  Technology.  .  .  Ensign 
Robert  G.  McAndrew  has  received  his  M.S. 
degree  from  Texas  A&M  University  in  Nu- 
clear Engineering.  He  is  stationed  at  Port 
Hueneme,  Calif.,  where  he  will  continue  his 
officer   training. 

1968 

Married:  James  A.  Raslavsky  to  Miss  Janet 
Cheryl  Ferrante  of  Shrewsbury,  Mass.,  on 
April  12,  1969.  Jim  remains  at  International 
Silver  Co.  in  Meriden,  Conn,  as  an  Industrial 
Engineer.  .  .  Jeffrey  E.  Shaw  to  Miss  Carole 
Ann  Marie  Mistretta  of  Methuen,  Mass.,  on 
April  12,  1969.  John  Korzick  served  as  an 
usher  at  the  wedding.  Jeff  is  an  Electrical 
Engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.  in  North 
Andover,  Mass.  .  .  Marshall  B.  Taylor  to  Miss 
Nancy  Hamilton  Smith  of  Grafton,  Mass.  on 
June  7,  1969.  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell,  John  R. 
Farley,  and  Gregory  H.  Sovas  served  as 
ushers  at  Marshall's  wedding.  Marshall  is  a 
systems  analyst  with  Allis-Chalmers  in  Hyde 
Park,  Mass.  .  .  Bruce  M.  Blades  to  Miss  Linda 
Barbara  McGaughey  of  Framingham,  Mass., 
on  June  7,  1969.  Bruce  is  a  Foreman  for 
Howard  M.  Blades  Construction  in  Framing- 
ham,  Mass.  .  .  Robert  J.  Horansky  to  Miss 
Linda  Dunkel  of  Torrington,  Conn.,  on  June 
14,  1969.  Bob  received  his  M.S.  degree  in 
Electric  Power  Systems  from  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute  and  will  be  employed 
by  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co.,  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  Allen  Palmer  to  Miss  Rosemary 
Jean  Plante  of  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  on  June 
14,  1969.  Allen  is  a  Test  Engineer  for  the 
Hazeltine  Corp.,  Electro-Acoustic  Systems 
Lab,  in  Braintree,  Mass. 
Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  C.  Gosling,  a 
daughter,  Lisa  Ellen,  on  June  14,  1969.  Bob 
is  studying  for  his  M.S.  in  the  Civil  Depart- 
ment at  Tech. 

David  C  Baxter  and  Richard  J.  Scaia  are 
now  working  as  Design  Engineers  for  Tor- 
rington Co.  in  Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  Lt.  Dan 
iel  C.  Creamer  is  now  serving  in  the  U.S. 
Army.  .  .  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  of  May- 
nard,  Mass.  now  employs  Ronald  F.  Golas- 
zewski  as  a  programmer.  .  .  David  A.  Hop- 
kinson  has  been  commissioned  a  second  Lt. 
in  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps.  .  .  Douglas  W. 
Ktauber  is  presently  a  Research  Engineer  at 
Hollingswoth  &  Vose  Co.  in  E.  Walpole, 
Mass.  .  .  Ensign  William  R.  Nordstrom  is 
serving  aboard  the  U.S.S.  Corry  out  of  Nor- 
folk, Va.  .  .  2nd  Lt.  John  J.  Orciuch  is 
stationed  at  Fort  Hood,  Texas.  .  .  Michael 
R.  Paige  has  received  his  M.S.  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Illinois  and  will  continue  there  as 
a  Research  Assistant  working  for  his  Ph.D. 
.  .  .  James  M.  Perkins  is  serving  as  a  Light 
Weapons  Infantryman  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  . 
Lawrence  J.  Roger  is  now  an  Ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Navy.  .  .  Richard  F.  Weiner  is  working 
for  Raytheon  Co.,  Equipment  Div.,  in  Wal- 
tham,    Mass.  .  .  Pvt.  Richard  A.    Westsmith 


writes,  "At  present  I'm  in  Vietnam  with  the 
Army  working  as  a  mechanic  on  one  of  their 
observation  planes.  .  .  Having  only  one  year 
left  of  Active  Duty,  I  hope  to  continue  my 
Masters  next  year."  .  .  .  Piyush  P.  Amin,  MS, 
is  presently  employed  by  Michael  Baker,  Jr. 
in  Harrisburg,  Pa.,  as  a  Bridge  Design  Engin- 
eer. .  .  Ensign  R.  Gregory  Balmer  is  sta- 
tioned aboard  the  Battleship  U.S.S.  New 
Jersey.  .  .  Norman  E.  Brunei!  is  an  Electro- 
Mechanical  Designer  for  the  Foxboro  Co., 
Foxboro,  Mass.  .  .  Theodor  A.  Heidt,  Jr.  is  a 
District  Sales  Engineer  in  Training  for  the 
Torrington  Co.  in  So.  Bend,  Ind.  .  .  John  E. 
Keenan  is  now  with  Keenan's  Oil  Service  in 
W.  Warwick,  R.I.  .  .  Jeffrey  H.  Semmel  is  a 
Research  Engineer  for  Norton  Co.  in  Wor- 
cester, Mass.  .  .  Kenneth  H.  Turnbull  is  an 
Assoc.  Mechanical  Engineer  for  Texaco,  Inc. 
in  Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  William  J.  Krikorian  re- 
ceived his  M.S.  in  Civil  Engineering  at  the 
101st  Commencement  of  Tech.  .  .  2nd  Lt. 
Richard  G.  Perreault  is  stationed  in  Schwein- 
furt,  Germany,  with  the  Army. 

1969 

Married:  Brian  D.  Chace  to  Miss  Elizabeth 
Marian  Maxwell  of  Marion,  Mass.,  on  June 
14,  1969.  Brian  is  with  Sylvania  Electronics 
Systems  Division  in  Needham  Heights,  Mass. 
Roger  J.  Dashner  was  best  man,  and  James 
P.  Atkinson  was  an  usher.  .  .  Anthony  J. 
Crispino  to  Miss  Linda  Ann  Czyzewski  of 
Fiskdale,  Mass.,  on  July  5,  1969.  Tony  is  a 
mechanical  engineer  with  the  Boeing  Co.  in 
Seattle,  Wash.  .  .  Joseph  E.  Doran,  Jr.,  to 
Miss  Ann  Marie  Meunier  of  No.  Attleboro, 
Mass.,  on  June  13,  1969.  The  best  man  was 
Bernard  J.  Dodge,  '70,  and  among  the 
ushers  were  Daniel  A.  Lipcan  and  E.  Wayne 
Turnblom,  '68.  Joe  is  a  management  engin- 
eer employed  by  Avco's  Lycoming  Div.  in 
Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  James  W.  Foley  to  Miss 
Ella  Mae  Beaudin  of  Rutland,  Mass.,  on 
August  23,  1969.  The  best  man  was  Robert 
P.  Kusy.  Jim  is  at  Case  Western  Reserve  Uni- 
versity in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  working  toward 
his  master's  degree.  .  .  Mark  S  Gerber  to 
Miss  Sandra  Frances  Sowers  of  Shrewsbury, 
Mass.,  on  June  6,  1969.  .  .  William  E.  Hal- 
lock  to  Miss  Judith  Ann  Groesbeck  of  Sco- 
tia, N.Y.,  on  June  21,  1969.  Among  the 
ushers  were  Cornelius  J.  Collins,  '71,  and 
Wayne  M.  Chiapperini,  '67.  Bill  is  with  Shell 
Oil  Co.  in  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Jeffrey  A. 
Hynds  to  Miss  Linda  Jean  Wilson  of  Cum- 
berland Hill.  R.I.,  on  July  12.  1969.  Among 
the  ushers  were  Roy  Lampinski,  '72,  and 
Christopher  J.  Masklee.  Jeff  is  employed  by 
Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.  in  Newark, 
N.J.  .  .  Donald  G.  Johnson  to  Miss  Janet 
Alice  Johnson  of  W.  Springfield.  Mass.,  on 
June  21.  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was  David 
W.  Swenson.  Don  is  with  the  Conn.  State 
Highway  Dept.  in  Wethersfield.  .  .  Robert  P. 
Kusy  to  Miss  Gisela  Bauer  of  W.  Boylston. 


40 


THE   JOURNAL 


2   OOOOO  BIOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

<  oonooHrtOonooonooocoo 
S  b  ib  (6  (6  (6  (6  <b  <b  b  Co  b  tb  b  b  b  b  b  05  Oo 


< 

I- 
UJ 
id 

co 

< 

CO 

z 
< 
s 

X 
V) 
UJ 


<I<II«II<I<I<III<I 


3~> 


E     ~ 


m 
■o 
ro 
o 

< 


E»io?  = 


'    E 


>     S 
.2.8 


•a 

ES 

So 


(D  =       q  op  <d  >*^  +j 

M  fll   wis   C    nS  2T« 


o 

■ 

to 


o 
o 

ro 


I  Q 


—   mt      .  a)  =         n  l^  V   -^  in  j-i  —        Tl 

1  »l  s  eJ3  o  gl  SEo-il  lis  § 

Qo5ffl<<55-ii-m<fl5i-  ao  worn 
cMiooroiooorvOcoinivo''tfivrHiooocoin 

HrtHH         rH  iH  i-i  t-H  f-4  CM  CM  CM 


o 


oooo 
oooco 
Oocmcmcm 

o 

■z.  <IK 


u  > 


CO 


z 
< 
s 

X    O 


CO  o 

UJ 


—  =  *:  o 

«=^  3  i- 


™  IOOsh 
<B  -HrH      M 

d  c.q 

<D  (0   <n 


C3 


oooooo 
ocooooo 
^f  rv  cm  cj  ^  cm 


E 
<o 
■a 
ro 

=  •- 


E^2 

WO*-  ISnS 
</)  ■—  3  O  O  0) 

O00ONO<t 


O        C.Q 

£      ro  o 


i 

< 


CD 

E 
o 

x 


o 

s 

1- 

co 

z 

UJ 

K 

o 

>• 

z 

CO 

< 

X 

UJ 

o 

UJ 

a: 

h- 

o 

> 

u. 

_l 

Q 

o 

UJ 

a. 

I 

UJ 


u 


Q     5 


_  OOO  OO  OOOO 

2  oooco  oo  roonn 

O  ivcSiiv  c\iiv  cb'oo^iv  „, 

£  XIX  X<  <<<!  1 


< 

a: 

£ 

UJ 

a. 


UJ 

a 

DC 

I 


o 
o 

H 
UJ 

-j 

UJ 


5 

CO 


CO 

a. 

< 
> 


UJ 

a. 


</> 


< 


o 
O 

■o 

ro 
a> 

X 


00 


r> 

O 

> 

c 
o 

o 

JC 

«1   U> 

c 

ro 

Cxi 

3   TO 

TO   (/) 

s« 

roo<= 
o 


CD 


S"n 

7-w 

1     00 

1    c 

0) 

2^ 

rtco 

o 

1 

w-s 

IhU  I- CO  ODCDJ  °_> 


"3-COU3  OCO  NnOlfl  CM 

Hrt    HH  rH  CM  CM    rH 


c 

TO 


.a 


ro 
2 


UJ 

O 
ffl 


ca  ^ 

_l  K 

U  < 

>-  9 


o  wmwm  g  in  in  in  in  m  q  m 

O  r-t^j-iH^j;  o  ^■^^"'-hi-hO^j- 

iv  diivcniv  r^  iv  iv  iv  di  6i  6d  tv 

<XXXX<XXXIX<X 


uj   y 
iC    -1 
o 
o 


I  d 


(0 

*c 

»-   O 

■So- 
<u  E 
o 


U) 
V) 

o 
"6 


ro 

4-» 


O  «= 

ro 
O 

0  oi 

CM 

■a 

ro  > 

<d  o 

1  2 


■icoiniv  iv  cM«3-o)--tiooro 

»-Ht-i  i-l»-H  cmcm 


C  J3 


UJ 

X 


Q 

UJ 

>- 


UJ 

< 

U 
UJ 

O 

X 


< 

2 

UJ 

or 

< 

d 
or 
O 

5 


UJ 

w 

V 

UJ 

ro 

^ 

O 

< 
m 

< 

- > 

1 

J=u 

3    C 

o  >^ 

CO 

a: 

o 
ro 
n 

*j  o 
ro2 
OCO 

(i 

«r 

> 

■a 
ro 

0 

T 

CM  10 

w  a. 


.0=       E 


> 

3  (D 


ro 

3 

C3 


c      o-_      t      cm     >,    L  = 

!h!S6:=*g.E8f&«n.e 

(A  J  >  J    .  =3-  i/)  i_  4J  c  r  ra  v). 

W       -OO"   'C3  0a<C'L003 


L0 

'5 

_ro  g 


.I"£:fcK-oo-:=S30Q.ro,co03  —  - 
5m<<  Soa_i<  5i-cowmi-ooOTOCo 

cMioocoiooo  ivorort  co  in  iv  o 't  iv  t-i  io  oo  coin 

«-H  rH  I-H  i-t  rH  rH  CO  iH  t-H  rH  CM  CM  CM 


CO 

2 


OOO  o 
omm  cp 

CM  IV  IV   CO 


O 


O 

?  <X< 

> 


J    < 


CO 

UJ 

5 


2 

S   b 


oooooo  ,, 
cpcocococpo  2 

CO  IV  |V  CM  IV  CO  ;2 

X  X  <  <  <  <  _c 

a 

CO 


ro 

(A 

•a 

,'J=  ro 


U) 


-  ro  ,S-  = 

< 
> 


O; 


<"£;  i5 

™  3  M 

S  o  c 

o  c   c  uj 

, ,    -  ..    .     -   3  o  ro  t:    .rod) 
ijOlOl^hllffiDQZ 

TO    IOOVO   O    IVrHIVrHinOO    ft 
<U  "HrH    rH  rH  rH  CM  CM  CM    «3 


C    XI 

ro  .a> 


ro 


/ 


A  on  June  27,  1969.  Bob  is  in  graduate 
t;<  >.  . ,  at  Drexel  Institute  of  Technology  in 
Philadelphia.  .  .  Ronald  C.  Lewis  to  Miss 
Judith  Ellen  Carney  of  Southwest  Harbor, 
Me.,  on  June  14,  1969.  Ron  is  in  the  Navy. 
.  .  .  Lt.  Cordon  R.  Miller  to  Miss  Carol 
Elizabeth  Sargent  of  Reading,  Mass.,  on 
June  15,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was  John 
L.  Walkup,  and  the  best  man  was  Donald  L. 
Sharp.  Gordon  is  in  the  Army,  stationed  at 
Ft.  Benning,  Ga.  .  .  Stephen  F.  Nagy  to  Miss 
Barbara  Ann  George  of  Ashland,  Mass.,  on 
June  14,  1969.  The  best  man  was  Ronald  P. 
Rosadini,  and  among  the  ushers  were  George 
P.  Moore,  '70,  Domenic  J.  Forcella,  Jr.,  '70, 
and  Charles  E.  Basner,  '70.  Steve  is  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  .  .  Michael  G. 
Ouellette  to  Miss  Barbara  Van  Kleeck  of 
Westboro,  Mass.,  on  July  12,  1969.  Among 
the  ushers  was  Peter  R.  Walsh.  Mike  is  a 
product  engineer  with  G.E.  in  Pittsfield, 
Mass.  .  .  Stephen  E.  Platz  to  Miss  Judith 
Evelyn  Dickinson  of  Kennebunk,  Me.,  or 
August  23, 1969. . .  John  F.  Poblocki  to  Miss 
Gail  Ann  Piehler  on  June  15,  1969.  Among 
the  ushers  were  Richard  J.  Sandora  and 
Ronald  G.  Roberts.  John  is  a  civil  engineer 
for  Metcalf  &  Eddy  Engineers,  Boston, 
Mass.  .  .  Robert  J.  Rose  to  Miss  Margaret 
Faith  Weir  of  Framingham,  Mass.,  on  July 
19,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was  Charles  M. 
Zepp,  and  the  best  man  was  Craig  L.  Mad- 
ing.  Bob  is  a  chemical  research  engineer  with 
Dupont  in  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.  .  .  Joseph  A. 
Senecal  to  Miss  Linda  M.  Renzi  of  Marlboro, 
Mass.,  on  August  16,  1969.  Among  the 
ushers  was  Jerry  L.  Johnson.  Joe  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Stanford  University,  Stan- 
ford, Calif.  .  .  Raymond  B.  Stanley  to  Miss 
Penny  Jane  Bellinger  of  Westford,  Mass.,  on 
June  21,  1969.  Ray  is  with  Western  Electric 
Co.  in  Greensboro,  N.C.  .  .  John  A.  Taylor 
to  Miss  Maureen  Maynard  of  Worcester  on 
June  14,  1969.  John  is  a  development  en- 
gineer with  Eastman  Kodak  in  Rochester, 
N.Y.  .  .  Thomas  F.  Taylor  to  Miss  Jeanne  M. 
Petracone  of  Barre  Plains,  Mass.,  on  August 
23,  1969.  The  best  man  was  Roger  L. 
Gariepy,  '67,  and  among  the  ushers  was 
David  E.  Kilpatrick.  Tom  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  for  G.E.  in  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  John  S. 
Thompson,  Jr.  to  Miss  Helen  Marie  Grady  of 
Natick,  Mass.,  on  June  15,  1969.  David  G. 
Healy  was  the  best  man,  and  among  the  ush- 
ers were  Peter  T.  Grosch,  Douglas  A.  Nel- 
son, Roger  W.  Miles,  Frederick  G.  Spreter, 
and  Richard  M.  Gross.  John  is  attending 
Harvard  Business  School  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 


CLASS  OF  1030 

40th  Reunion 

Warren  Whittum,  Charlie  Fay,  Bill  Locke, 

and  Carl  Backstrom 

have  a/ready  reserved 

THE  WORCESTER   COUNTRY  CLUB 

for 

JUNE  4,  1970 

More  Details  Later 

for  now,  save  the  date  of 

JUNE  4,  1970! 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  .  • 

Perhaps  you  cant  endoiv  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $31.00 

• 

No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21"  •  j^o    133214 

Price:  $44.00     (Black  Arms)  COLLEGE  BOSTON   ROCKER 

No.  342  218  Seat  to  top  of  back:  27  Y2" 

Price:  $45.00     (Cherry  Arms)  Price:  $40.00 

Send  your  remittance  and  make  cheeks  payable  to 

W.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

Ml  chairs  shipped  express  prepaid  to  points  within  125  miles  of  Gardner,  Mass. 

For  all  other  points,  deduct  $4.00  from  prices  for  express  collect  shipment. 


.-■"^••^..rty 


^^™^WMB( 


I 


This  'little  white  box"  will  be  taken  to  the  moon  on  an  early  lunar 
landing  expedition,  and  left  there.  Its  job  will  be  to  measure  minute 
changes  in  the  atmosphere  (or  rather,  lack  of  it)  as  the  moon  goes 
through  its  natural  cycle.  Its  findings  will  be  continuously  trans- 
mitted back  to  earth.  This  information  will  help  scientists  study 
the  origin  of  the  moon,  and  further  our  understanding  of  how  the 
earth  was  formed. 

The  lunar  vacuum  gauge  is  another  scientific  contribution 
from  Norton— the  same  company  that  produces  a  special  metal 
for  computer  capacitors;  equipment  to  coat  pure  gold  on  plastics; 
and  radar  nose  cones  for  aircraft.  Norton  Company  world-wide: 
where  you  can  expect  the  unexpectecL 

Norfon  Company,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01606 


.•'  " 


*• 


•--. 


.  *# 

^  *  W  M 

FROA 

x  ^1 

NORTON 

$$* 


A  SC/ENT/F/C SENT/NEL  TO  BE, 
ONTHEMOON. 


cc 

Li 

h 

z 


n 

a 

J 

0 

> 


POLYTECHNIC  INSTITUTE 


T" 


^ 


Apollo  demands  the  strength  of  forging. 

So  do  better  bulldozers  and 
turbojets  and  submarines  and... 

The  forging  know-how  in  150  Wyman-Gordon  forged 
parts  for  Saturn  V  also  provides  product  improvement 
for  tractors,  jumbo  jets,  turbine  engines,  nuclear  power. 

From  a  1 4-foot  aluminum  hold-down  post  to  a  2"  titanium 
fuel  line  fitting,  the  Saturn  V  forgings  provide  the  best  com- 
bination of  strength  and  lightweight  .  .  .  and  the  skills  of 
Wyman-Gordon  ensure  superior  properties  and  reliability. 

This  is  what  any  manufacturer  needs  in  high-stress  com- 
ponents—Wyman-Gordon's  total  capability  in  forging  . .  . 
the  result  of  aggressive  concern  with  improved  technol- 
ogy. Wyman-Gordon  Company,  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Offices  in  Chicago,  Detroit,  Dayton,  Los  Angeles,  Fort 
Worth,  Seattle,  Bombay  and  Geneva. 


This  aluminum  forging  for 
Saturn  V  measures  38"  x  165". 
weighs  1.930  pounds.    There  are 
Wyman-Gordon  forgings  in  every 
major  American  space  vehicle. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 

Forgings  of  all  sizes  and  metals 


^ 


v 


i 


the 
journal 

Published  by  the  Alumni  Association 
of  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

W.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 

President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 

Vice  presidents: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30; 

R.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 

W.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 

Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 

S.  J.  Hebert,  '66; 

Past  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,   Jr.  '36; 

Executive  Committee, 

Members-at-Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

P.  Wiley,  '35;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

Fund  Board: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  L.  G.  Humphrey, 

Jr.,  '35;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38; 

L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34;  A.  Kalenian,  '33. 

Alumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Office  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Magazine  Secretary: 

Nance  C.  Thompson; 

Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter. 


Two  Towers  Subcommittee  Reports  page  two 

The  Faculty  Planning  Committee,  which  last  fall  presented  its  model  for  WPI's  second 
century,  has  now  received  some  committee  reports  which  study  specific  applications  of  the 
moael.  Included  in  this  article  are  excerpts  from  some  of  those  reports. 


Civil  Engineering  Education  at  WPI  —  A  Plan  for  the  Challenges  of  the  Modern  Age 
by  Carl  H.  Koontz,  Professor  and  Head  of  Civil  Engineering         


page  six 


The  faculty  has  approved  a  new  curriculum  for  the  civil  engineering  department  which  will 
permit  greater  flexibility  in  undergraduate  programs.  This  report  shows  how  one  department 
at  WPI  is  attempting  to  keep  up  with  our  rapidly  changing  world. 


The  Gordon  Library  After  2  1/2  years 

by  Albert  G.  Anderson,  Jr.,  Head  Librarian 


page  fifteen 


Although  Gordon  library  is  one  of  the  newest  facilities  on  campus,  it  is  also  one  of  the  most 
popular  and  most  widely  used.  Prof.  Anderson  explains  some  of  the  innovations  and 
"unusual"  areas  in  Gordon  Library. 

ROTC  at  WPI  -  Very  Much  Alive 

by  Col.  Edward  J.  Geaney,  Jr.,  Professor  of  Military  Science         ....      page  seventeen 

The  ROTC  program  became  entirely  voluntary  with  the  start  of  classes  in  September,  1969. 
Several  innovations  have  been  incorporated  into  the  program  which  have  helped  to  maintain  a 
high  enrollment. 

A  New  Techniquest  in  1970 

by  Dr.  Raymond  R.  Hagglund,  '56,  Assoc.  Professor,  Mechanical  Engineering  page  twenty 

Techniquest  has  been  revised  to  include  more  of  an  engineering  approach.  This  will  enable  the 
program  to  better  orient  a  prospective  freshman  to  engineering  and  to  WPI. 


Leo  S.  Jansson  Award 


page  twenty-three 


An  annual  award  has  been  established  in  memory  of  Leo.  Read  this  article  to  learn  how  you 
may  aid  this  award. 

Tax  and  Transfer  Problems  in  the  Gift  of  Securities 

by  Fred  L.  Broad,  Jr.,  WPI  Director  of  Development         page  twenty-five 

Many  people  prefer  to  make  gifts  to  their  alma  mater  in  the  form  of  securities.  In  an 
informative  article,  Mr.  Broad  explains  some  of  the  recommended  procedures  for  making  gifts 
of  this  type. 


Your  Alumni  Office 


page  twenty-seven 


Volume  73 


Winter 


Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

The  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
Spring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
matter  July  26,  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
year.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
Alumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


The  Alumni  Association's  daily  operations  are  carried  on  by  a  staff  of  four  full-time  and 
several  part-time  secretaries  in  addition  to  the  Secretary-Treasurer  and  the  Assistant  Secretary. 
Read  this  article  to  meet  the  people  in  the  office  and  to  learn  what  your  Association  does  on 
an  annual  basis. 

Twenty-first  Annual  Techni-Forum  Attended  by  22  Secondary 

School  Guidance  Counselors page  thirty 

DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes  10 

Varsity  Review  13 

Alumni  Fund  Progress  Report  23 

A  Faculty  Viewpoint 32 

Undergraduate  Viewpoint  33 

District  Doings 36 

In  Memory  37 

Your  Class  and  Others  40 


THE  JOURNAL 


TWO  TOWERS: 


SUBCOMMITTEE  REPORTS 


In  October,  1969,  the  Faculty  Planning  Committee  held 
Planning  Day  II.  It  was  an  entire  day,  without  classes, 
which  was  devoted  to  the  presentation  of  a  model  for  WPI's 
future  and  to  discussion  periods  about  the  model.  From  the 
model  and  the  discussions,  nine  subcommittees  were 
established  to  further  explore  various  topics.  These  sub- 
committees were  as  follows:  Environment,  Advising, 
Examinations,  Graduate  Program,  Courses,  Organization, 
Finances  and  Cost  Estimation,  Implementation,  and  Re- 
source Development. 

These  committees  were  made  up  of  volunteers  represent- 
ing the  student  body,  faculty,  and  administration.  In  some 
instances,  student  subchairmen  were  appointed  to  study  a 
particular  area  of  interest  in  a  committee's  work.  In  every 
case,  each  committee  member  had  an  equal  voice,  and,  in 
most  cases,  students  made  up  a  majority  of  the  members  on 
the  committee. 


As  this  issue  of  The  Journal  goes  to  press,  two  of  the 
subcommittee  reports  have  been  completed  and  released. 
These  are  the  Environment  and  the  Advisory  subcom- 
mittees. Other  reports  will  follow  shortly,  while  others, 
such  as  the  Implementation  report,  must  await  the  ideas 
and  recommendations  of  other  committees  before  they  can 
be  completed.  Upon  the  completion  of  the  subcommittee 
work,  the  Planning  Committee  will  prepare  a  final  report 
which  will  comprise  their  recommendations  for  the  future 
course  of  WPI.  This  final  report  will  hopefully  be  complete 
sometime  during  the  spring  of  1970. 

Excerpts  from  the  two  completed  subcommittee  reports 
follow,  printed  as  received  and  unedited  by  the  Planning 
Committee. 


ENVIRONMENT  SUBCOMMITTEE 

Attached  are  our  reports  on  Overall  Psyche;  Non- 
Fraternity  Life;  Housing  and  Dining;  Fraternities;  Campus; 
Highland  Street,  Worcester,  and  the  Consortium. 

Students  who  enter  WPI  with  intelligence  and  enthu- 
siasm will  continue  to  lose  what  spark  of  spontaneity  they 
have  unless  the  environment  of  the  College  is  radically 
changed.  In  an  attempt  to  look  at  some  of  the  important 
aspects  of  environment,  the  following  reports  have  been 
prepared  by  the  various  subcommittees  on  Environment 
and  College  Life.  (Ed.  Note:  Each  subcommittee  was 
chaired  by  two  undergraduates.) 

Each  report  was  written  independently;  similarities, 
differences,  and  contradictions  in  ideas  and  methods  will  be 
noticed.  An  inherent  fear  of  rejection  by  a  conservative 
faculty  and  student  body  has  probably  stifled  our  ability  to 
create  sparkling  new  ideas  .  .  . 

The  recommendations  presented  here  are  by  no  means 
final  ones.  They  are  meant  to  stimulate  thinking  about  our 
physical  and  psychological  environments.  There  are  barriers 
in  the  present  physical  environment  here  which  must  be 
eliminated,  but  changes  in  buildings  alone  will  not  solve  our 
problem.  We  must  still  discover  the  "spiritual"  catalyst  that 
will   make  the  reaction  run  and  bring  about  the  shifts  in 


attitude   of   both   students   and   faculty   that  are  so  pro- 
foundly needed  .  .  . 

Overall  Psyche  Team 

The  purpose  of  this  committee  was  to  examine  the 
psychological  make-up  of  the  Tech  student,  and  to  find 
ways  to  alter  the  environment  to  give  us  the  best  of  all 
possible  psyche. 

Since  many  of  a  student's  feelings  for  the  College  are 
formed  in  his  freshman  year,  it  would  be  wise  to  look  for 
ways  to  make  that  year  more  encouraging  than  it  is  now. 
The  freshman  environment  centers  at  this  time  (and  for  the 
immediate  future)  around  the  dormitory,  and  to  make 
dorm  life  more  livable  should  be  one  of  our  goals. 

The  freshman  living  in  a  dormitory  feels  more  like  an 
inmate  than  a  resident.  The  sameness  of  the  rooms  with 
their  pastel-colored  walls  and  everything-boltedtogether 
furnishings  is  nothing  less  than  oppressive.  We  feel  that  the 
dorm  resident  should  be  allowed  to  paint,  partition,  poster, 
and  rearrange  his  room  any  way  he  pleases  .  .  . 

The  opportunity  presents  itself  to  do  something  positive 
by  inventing  a  new  breed  of  dorm  counselor,  one  who  is 
more  of  a  teacher  than  a  policeman.  Chosen  by  a 
committee  of  faculty  and  students,  he  would  need  a  new 
set  of  qualifications:  the  ability  and  desire  to  communicate, 


THE   JOURNAL 


broad  knowledge  of  the  assets  of  the  College  and  the  city, 
and  an  interest  in  people  .  .  .  It's  a  task  best  left  for 
graduate  students  and  seniors. 

Though  we  are  examining  the  overall  psyche  of  the  WPI 
community,  the  student's  individual  psyche  must  also  be 
considered.  The  need  for  a  psychological  counseling  service 
was  pointed  up  by  the  visit  of  Dr.  George  Higgins  to  the 
campus.  Right  now,  for  a  Tech  student  to  begin  to  go  crazy 
is  simply  insane.  There  is  almost  no  one  to  help  him  .  .  . 

The  drudgery  imposed  by  much  of  the  curriculum  is 
partly  to  blame.  Even  if  the  model  succeeds  in  eliminating 
that,  something  positive  has  to  be  done  to  unsquash  the 
WPI  mind.  More  vehicles  for  creativity  should  be  provided 
both  in  and  out  of  the  classroom  .  .  . 

The  single  most  important  factor  influencing  student- 
faculty  interest  and  pride  in  the  College  is  its  name. 
"Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute"  is  not  very  inspiring  as 
names  go  .  .  .  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  The  first 
word  is  obvious.  It  represents  the  general  location  of  the 
College  .  .  .  Polytechnic:  relating  or  devoted  to  instruction 
in  many  technical  arts  or  applied  sciences.  That  definition 
certainly  describes  WPI  before  1950  .  .  .  The  word 
Polytechnic  is  far  too  confining  and  exceptionally  mis- 
leading to  the  prospective  college  student  and  the  general 
public.  Institute:  a  system  of  organized  and  often  highly 
formalized  belief,  practice,  or  acceptance.  That  word  fitted 
WPI  like  a  glove  up  until  about  1966  .  .  .  Under  the 
proposed  planning  model  the  College  will  be  as  totally 
unstructured  as  is  possible;  in  other  words,  it  will  be  the 
complete  antithesis  of  the  highly  formalized  practice 
required  of  an  institute  .  .  . 

According  to  Dr.  George  Higgins  of  Trinity  College, 
spontaneity  is  what  sparks  student  interest  in  campus  and 
non-campus  activities.  In  order  to  promote  this  "sponta- 
neity" it  might  be  to  the  advantage  of  the  College  to 
establish  a  special  organization,  answerable  to  no  one,  to 
spark  controversy.  Its  function  would  be  to  play  devil's 
advocate,  by  constantly  pushing  for  change  ...  It  will  point 
out  to  the  College  areas  that  are  starting  to  stagnate  and 
which  will  stall  the  College's  future  progress  .  .  . 

Further  Research  Needed 
In  addition  to  the  proposals  previously  outlined,  other 
questions   came    up  which  the  Overall   Psyche  Team  felt 
needed  further  study  .  .  . 

1.  A  complete  study  of  tradition  and  its  role  on  campus 
should  be  undertaken  .  .  . 

2.  Along  similar  lines,  a  study  of  Honor  Societies  on 
campus  should  be  undertaken  .  .  . 

3.  Does  the  college  proposed  under  the  model  want  to 
produce  a  stereotyped  graduate  as  WPI  does  today?  .  .  . 

4.  Finally,  more  study  will  have  to  be  given  to  the 
question  of  spontaneity  on  a  campus  where  "logic"  is  the 
watchword  and  the  tried-and-true  method  is  king  .  .  . 


Non-Fraternity  Life 

The  Non-Fraternity  Life  study  group  began  its  dis- 
cussions on  the  premise  that,  under  the  proposed  model, 
the  student  of  WPI  should  be  given  every  available 
opportunity  to  develop  himself  intellectually,  psycholog- 
ically, physically,  and  socially  within  the  environment  of 
this  school.  By  providing  certain  physical  facilities,  it  is 
hoped  that  they  may  be  taken  advantage  of  by  both 
students  and  faculty  .  .  . 

One  of  the  major  problems  with  non-fraternity  life, 
presently,  is  that  the  upperclassmen  who  are  now  not 
members  of  fraternities  must  find  housing  off  campus, 
which  somewhat  separates  them  from  activities  of  the 
school.  True,  some  of  these  people  feel  that  they  would  like 
to  live  off  campus  segregated  from  the  WPI  environment, 
but  many  non-fraternity  students  feel  that  they  do  miss 
much,  socially  and  academically,  by  living  any  distance 
from  the  school.  If  one  has  such  a  feeling,  then  some  of  his 
growth  may  be  stunted  as  a  result .  .  . 

The  subgroup  proposes,  as  its  basic  solution,  a  living 
situation  which  is  based  on  both  academic  and  social 
awareness.  It  is  hoped  that  such  a  situation  will  create  a 
greater  sense  of  community  among  both  fraternity  and 
non-fraternity  members.  To  do  this  we  suggest  that  the 
residential  college  system  (much  like  that  employed  in  the 
European  universities)  be  incorporated  within  WPI. 

Physically,  the  colleges  would  consist  of  a  number  of 
housing  units.  These  housing  units  would  contain  approxi- 
mately fifty  students,  and  would  be  structured  vertically  . . . 
as  opposed  to  the  present  horizontal  structure  .  .  .  Four  or 
five  of  these  housing  units  could  be  joined  to  make  a  larger 
dormitory  (but  in  such  a  way  that  each  section  will  preserve 
its  individuality)  or  grouped  together  (though  each  unit  will 
not  be  physically  joined  to  another)  in  a  small  but 
well -landscaped  area  .  .  . 

Each  housing  unit  would  provide  several  types  of  rooms 
to  allow  people  to  live  alone,  or  in  groups  of  two,  three,  or 
four  ...  A  lounge  would  also  be  located  within  each  unit. 
Dining  facilities  would  include  a  large  dining  hall  to  be 
located  in  one  of  the  units  .  .  . 

The  colleges  should  not  segregate  freshmen  from  upper- 
classmen at  social  activities.  The  units  themselves  should 
not  be  segregated  as  to  sex,  race,  or  class  .  .  . 

Many  may  feel  that  this  system  is  a  very  good  copy  of 
the  fraternity  system.  This  is  somewhat  true,  except  for  the 
ideas  of  selectivity  and  commitment  present  within  the 
fraternity  system,  now.  Though  many  of  the  physical 
objects  proposed  are  found  in  fraternity  houses,  they  are 
not  now  made  available  to  non-fraternity  students .  .  . 

The  Non-Fraternity  study  group  proposes  that  the 
model  discussed  above  be  implemented  in  the  Stoddard 
Residential  Center,  in  order  that  this  idea  may  be  tested  as 
to  its  practicality  .  .  . 


THE   JOURNAL 


Housing  And  Dining  Sub-Group  Report 

In  the  course  of  the  following  report  we  will  present  a 
housing  and  dining  arrangement  whose  primary  objective  is 
providing  a  pleasantly  livable  and  socially  rewarding  atmos- 
phere during  a  student's  stay  at  WPI  ...  It  is  our  hope  that 
the  model  we  propose  will  not  be  interpreted  as  a  move  to 
hold  a  student  on  campus,  but  rather  it  is  designed  to  allow 
him  to  more  naturally  become  a  part  of  his  environment 
instead  of  being  driven  away  by  it .  .  . 

The  model  we  propose  is  a  very  flexible  one  and  is 
centered  about  the  concept  of  small  living  units  placed  near 
to  the  campus  .  .  .  Flexibility  demands  that  a  student  live  in 
an  environment  which  is  best  for  him,  and  if  that  proves  to 
be  living  in  a  fraternity  or  an  apartment,  then  he  should  not 
be  forced  into  what  we  might  think  is  best.  .  .  We  propose 
the  construction  of  faculty  apartments,  built  with  a  high 
level  of  quality  and  originality,  which  would  allow  those 
faculty  members  and  their  families  to  live  in  the  midst  of 
the  campus  without  any  sacrifice  in  living  accommodations 
if  they  so  desire.  Graduate  students,  married  or  single, 
should  also  be  provided  with  modern  and  attractive 
apartments  .  .  . 

Up  to  this  point  in  the  model  no  mention  has  been 
made  of  foreign  students  as  a  special  entity.  We  feel  that, 
despite  special  needs  that  will  arise  during  a  foreign 
student's  stay  at  WPI,  we  would  be  doing  him  a  great 
disservice  by  not  completely  integrating  him  with  the  rest 
of  the  community  .  .  . 

The  dining  function  will  be  served  by  small  dining  units 
that  will  be  conveniently  placed  among  the  living  units  .  .  . 
These  small  dining  units  are  small  enough  not  to  be  large 
mess  halls,  yet  large  enough  to  allow  for  the  interaction  of 
the  residents  of  three  different  living  units. 

The  relationship  of  the  school  to  these  units  shall  be  a 
landlord  function  only.  These  units  should  definitely  be 
owned  and  managed  by  the  school  as  significant  tax  and 
loan  advantages  will  be  available  due  to  the  school's 
non-profit  status  .  .  . 

Owing  to  the  flexibility  of  the  housing  units  (and 
assuming  the  condition  regarding  bathrooms  is  feasible  as 
proposed),  they  would  be  as  coed  as  is  any  apartment 
building  on  a  room-by-room  basis.  We  feel  that  this  presents 
a  realistic  and  true-to-life  living  arrangement  .  .  . 

Despite  the  fact  that  the  first  look  at  this  proposal  might 
cause  one  to  shudder  at  the  probable  cost  of  this 
installation,  we  do  feel  that  the  model  can  be  made 
economically  feasible  and  still  have  moderate  cost  to  the 
residents  .  .  . 

In  summary,  we  feel  that  the  above  model  provides  for 
the  important  needs  of  community,  privacy,  and  flexibility 
for  all  of  those  connected  with  the  College. 


Flexibility  demands  that  a 

student  live  in  an  environment 

which  is  best  for  him  .  .  . 

Fraternities 

.  .  .  Succinctly,  our  subcommittee  goals  were:  (1) 
Increased  opportunities  for  personal  development;  and  (2) 
Closer  student-faculty  interaction.  With  this  in  mind  the 
fraternity  subgroup  would  make  the  following  proposals: 

(1)  Strongly  urge  and  support  the  project-type,  inde- 
pendent mode  of  education.  The  atmosphere  of  the 
fraternity  is  particularly  conducive  to  this  educational 
vehicle  and  is  particularly  appropriate  to  the  educating  of  a 
humanistic  technologist .  .  .  The  overwhelming  advantage  of 
the  fraternity  system  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  ...  is  an 
organization  conducive  to  vertical  as  well  as  horizontal 
integration. 

(2)  A  stronger,  more  active  IFC.  It  is  apparent  that  there 
is  a  need  for  a  coordinated,  cohesive,  united  IFC  in  which 
all  states  are  contributing  towards  and  protecting  individual 
development. 

Areas  with  which  the  IFC  could  immediately  research 
are:  (A)  Cooperative  buying  and  bargaining,  (B)  A  uniform 
accounting  system  and  an  auditor  hired  by  the  IFC,  (C)  An 
expanded  social  calendar  to  include  non-fraternity  students, 
(D)  A  system  by  which  fraternity  procedures  and  policies 
are  constantly  re-evaluated  and  upgraded,  and  (E)  The 
whole  topic  of  school  loyalty  and  overall  psyche  at  WPI  is 
an  untouched  area  where  the  IFC  at  other  colleges  have 
made  great  strides .  .  . 

(3)  A  Dean  of  Fraternities  .  .  .  The  College  (should) 
employ  a  professional  whose  task  is  to  give  direction  and 
advice  to  the  fraternity  system  so  as  to  encourage  their 
integration  with  the  school  .  .  . 

Campus 

We  have  attempted  to  attack  the  campus  life  as  it  will 
need  to  change  to  meet  the  changing  goal  of  the  Institute. 
We  have  broken  the  problem  into  four  parts  (appearance, 
cultural  and  social  life,  sports,  campus  center)  and  through 
these  hope  to  answer  what  we  feel  to  be  the  major  issues. 

1.  PROBLEMS: 

(1)  Campus  Center;  (2)  Appearance;  (3)  Cultural  Life 
and  Social  Life;  (4)  Sports. 

II     ANALYSIS  OF  PROBLEMS. 

Campus  Center:  A  large  part  of  the  lack  of  communica- 
tions, cultural  and  social  life,  and  student/faculty  interac- 


THE   JOURNAL 


tion  is  due  to  not  having  accommodations  suitable.  There  is 
no  central  meeting  point,  where  activities  of  all  sorts  can  be 
carried  on  .  .  .  Several  locations  were  discussed,  and  it  was 
decided  that  either  on  the  quadrangle  or  directly  off  the 
quadrangle  (next  to  the  Stoddard  Residence  Halls)  would 
be  the  best  locations  .  .  . 

Appearance:  ...  A  major  factor  in  attracting  students  is 
through  buildings,  landscaping,  and  overall  appearance  .  .  . 
We  can  no  longer  build  to  just  necessity  but  will  have  to 
catch  up  to  where  society  is  today  in  its  views  and  ideas. 
The  present  buildings  will  have  to  be  developed  as  best 
possible  to  meet  these  standards  .  .  . 

Cultural  and  Social  Life:  There  now  is  a  major  problem 
in  communications  among  students,  faculty,  and  adminis- 
tration. No  one  knows  what  is  going  on  and  often  assumes 
that  there  is  nothing  happening  that  evening  or  weekend.  A 
weekly  calendar  is  greatly  needed  .  .  .  The  social  life  is  the 
responsibility  of  the  students  and  administration  and  will 
depend  on  the  students.  Here  again  a  Campus  Center  would 
be  a  major  addition. 

Sports:  As  it  seems  that  all  mandatory  classes  will 
eventually  be  dropped,  the  sports  program,  other  than 
varsity  sports,  is  of  concern.  A  possible  answer  is  to  give 
physical  education  classes  credit  as  a  full  course.  This  would 
call  for  an  increase  in  its  desirability  to  students  and  in  its 
capabilities.  More  facilities  and  a  larger  staff  to  accom- 
modate a  more  varied  program  will  be  needed  .  .  . 

REPORT  OF  THE  SUBCOMMITTEE 
ON  ADVISING  PROCEDURES 

I  INTRODUCTION. 

.  .  .  Our  efforts  were  devoted  to  attempting  to  define  the 
role,  function,  and  responsibilities  of  the  academic  advisor, 
as  contrasted  with  the  other  advisors,  what  the  responsi- 
bilities of  the  student  would  be  under  the  plan  with  respect 
to  advice  offered,  and  finally,  attempting  to  define  what 
kind  of  relationship  we  would  hope  to  see  emerge  between 
advisor  and  advisee  and  how  that  relationship  might  be 
fostered  and  encouraged  .  .  . 

II  ANALYSIS. 

Although  there  was  initially  some  feeling  that  the 
advisor  should  be  a  member  of  the  student's  chosen  field  of 
interest,  our  conclusion  is  that  this  is  not  a  necessary 
condition  to  the  development  of  a  helpful  and  profitable 
student/advisor  relationship  .  .  .  We  feel  that  there  should 
be  an  effort  made  to  assign,  on  arrival,  a  student  to  a 
faculty  person  with  whom  he  may  be  expected  to  have 
common  interests  (not  necessarily  interests  of  the  technical 
or  professional  variety),  and  with  whom,  in  the  majority  of 
cases,  he  would  stay  associated  during  the  period  of  his 
undergraduate   career.  The  responsibilities  of  the  advisor 


are:  to  assist  the  student  in  defining  his  educational  goals; 
to  aid  in  the  transition  from  secondary  school  to  the 
relatively  unstructured  situation  at  WPI;  and  to  aid  in  the 
selection  of  basic  courses.  During  the  upperclass  years,  the 
advisor  will  help  to  define  alternatives,  keep  in  close 
contact  with  project  advisors  and  coursework  progress  so 
that  an  accurate  appraisal  correlating  all  this  information 
will  be  available  to  the  student. 

The  responsibility  of  the  student  is  to  meet  with  his 
advisor  at  appropriate  intervals,  discussing  with  the  advisor 
the  goals  he  has  formulated  and  the  progress  he  is  making 
toward  them  .  .  . 

An  estimate  of  the  time  required  to  perform  the 
function  described  above  is  rather  difficult  to  provide;  a 
consensus  seemed  to  be  that  advising,  if  done  ideally,  and 
under  the  conditions  as  specified  in  the  next  section,  would 
require  between  ten  and  twenty  percent  of  the  faculty 
member's  time  .  .  .  The  "Council  of  Advisors"  (to  use  the 
term  appearing  in  the  Planning  Committee's  report)  should 
serve  to  reinforce  the  advisory  group  .  .  . 

III  RECOMMENDATIONS. 

1.  The  entire  faculty  should  be  involved  in  the  advising 
of    students,    along    with    interested   administrators  .  .  . 

2.  Each  advisor  would  have  a  distribution  of  classes  as 
advisees  .  .  . 

3.  The  number  of  advisees  per  class  per  advisor  should 
be  limited  to  three  or  four,  and  fairly  close  control  should 
be  exerted  to  hold  the  total  number  of  advisees  per  faculty 
member  at  this  level  .  .  . 

4.  The  equivalent  of  a  one-credit  course  should  be 
scheduled  for  each  advisor  with  his  Freshmen  advisees  .  .  . 

5.  A  Council  of  Advisors  should  be  provided  to  plan, 
operate,  and  evaluate  orientation  programs  for  faculty 
(both  present  and  incoming)  and  students  .  .  . 

6.  To  augment  the  current  medical,  religious,  and 
counseling  services,  the  College  should  investigate  the 
possibility  of  securing  the  services  of  a  clinical  psychologist 
on  a  part-time  basis  .  .  . 

IV  CONCLUSIONS. 

There  have  been  concerns  expressed  that  under  a  system 
such  as  the  model  describes,  success  will  be  due  in  large 
measure  to  the  nature,  quality,  and  effectiveness  of  the 
advising  system.  While  the  subcommittee  agrees  that  effec- 
tive counseling/advising  is  important,  .  .  there  will  be 
students  who  will  not  avail  themselves  of  the  system  any 
more  than  necessary  and  who  will  do  well  or  badly  in  spite 
of,  not  because  of,  the  system  .  .  . 

As  the  situation  changes  and  the  model  becomes  reality, 
problems  impossible  to  foresee  at  this  point  will  be  certain 
to  occur;  the  best  that  can  be  hoped  for  is  that  the  advisors 
and  their  council  will  be  sufficiently  flexible  to  deal  with 
them,  and  that  the  entire  problem  will  be  accorded 
continuing  scrutiny  by  all  concerned. 


THE  JOURNAL 


CIVIL  ENGINEERING  EDUCATION  AT  WPI 


A  PLAN  FOR  THE  CHALLENGES 
OF  THE  MODERN  AGE 

by 
CARL  H.   KOONTZ 

Professor  and  Head  of  Civil  Engineering 


Ed.  Note:  Since  the  following  article  was  written,  the  Faculty  has 
approved  the  proposed  program,  effective  with  the  spring  term  of 
1970.  Following  the  trend  for  more  flexibility  in  individual 
programs,  the  adopted  plan  calls  for  only  twelve  required  civil 
engineering  courses.  The  traditional  sophomore  math,  physics,  and 
physical  education  courses  will  still  be  required,  but  the  remainder 
of  the  program  will  consist  of  elective  courses.  Six  elective  courses 
must  be  from  the  offerings  in  humanities  and  social  studies.  The 
remaining  twelve  elective  courses  must  include  one  course  each  from 
the  areas  of  environment,  planning,  structures  and  transportation. 
This  will  leave  eight  courses  which  can  be  selected  to  best  meet 
individual  needs.  Another  feature  will  be  the  possibility  of  selecting 
a  program  which  will  lead  directly  to  a  master's  degree. 

INTRODUCTION 

From  the  broadest  viewpoint,  all  technical  and  scientific 
resources  may  be  classified  into  one  or  any  combination  of 
three  areas  denoted  as  energy,  materials,  and  information. 
Engineering  progress  in  these  areas  has  produced,  deliber- 
ately or  by  accident,  an  involved  pattern  of  organized 
systems  of  men,  machines,  structures,  and  environment 
designed  to  handle  and  process  energy,  materials,  and 
information.  As  a  natural  consequence,  engineering  practice 
has  evolved  as  a  system  made  up  of  four  major  subsystems 
dealing  broadly  with  machines  (mechanical  engineering), 
chemical  processes  (chemical  engineering),  energy  and 
information  (electrical  engineering),  and  physical  environ- 
ment (civil  engineering).  It  is  largely  through  these  systems 
that  man  seeks  to  control  his  physical  and  economic 
environment  while  he  expands  his  social  and  cultural 
achievements. 


Traditional  engineering  practice  of  the  past  and  of  the 
present  has  placed  major  emphasis  on  design  and  develop- 
ment which  can  be  incorporated  into  the  technical  systems 
of  energy  materials  and  information.  Unfortunately,  not 
enough  attention  has  been  given  to  the  fact  that  technical 
systems  must  operate  within  a  framework  of  human  values 
defined  by  ethical,  moral,  religious,  and  cultural  considera- 
tions together  with  their  legal  and  economic  consequences. 
Every  significant  advance  of  civilized  society  has  been  the 
result  of  very  complicated  and  dynamic  arrays  of  forces 
produced  as  technological  developments  are  forced  into  the 
framework  of  human  values.  An  unstable  balance-of-power 
situation  exists  with  the  balance  point  constantly  shifting  as 
technology  advances  and  mutations  of  the  technological 
system  develop  or  as  patterns  of  human  values  change. 
Resulting  imbalances  generate  severe  conflicts  between  the 
technical  system  and  the  current  framework  of  human 
values. 

As  an  example,  the  present  stage  of  development  and 
use  of  the  modern  internal  combustion  engine  represents  a 
truly  great  technological  achievement.  The  benefits  derived 
from  it  by  our  modern  society  are  of  immeasurable  value. 
Modern  mechanical  marvels,  powered  by  the  internal 
combustion  engine,  rapidly  transport  products  of  com- 
merce, which  are  also  the  result  of  technological  progress, 
from  points  of  origin  to  centers  of  consumption.  Separated 
by  thousands  of  miles,  all  people  are  communal  in  the  sense 
of  a  mutual  sharing  of  the  products  of  their  labors  and 
wealth  made  possible  through  spectacular  systems  of 
transportation  and  of  communication.  Similar  advantages 
exist  with  respect  to  recreational,  cultural,  and  other 
opportunities  that  are  vastly  important  to  the  general 
well-being  of  mankind. 

As  further  advances  are  made  into  this  modern  age  of 
transportation,  the  failures  associated  directly  or  indirectly 
with  the  internal  combustion  engine  are  attracting  more 
attention  and  becoming  of  greater  immediate  and  future 
concern  than  the  successes.  As  the  major  single  source  of  air 
pollution,  the  internal  combustion  engine  threatens  the 
very  health  and  well-being  that  it  has  been  instrumental  in 
enhancing  in  other  ways.  In  localized  areas,  transportation 
by  modern  modes  is  now  even  less  rapid  than  that  by 
modes  replaced.  Injuries,  deaths,  and  property  damage 
resulting  from  the  improper  operation  of  vehicles  have 
reached  preponderant  economic  levels.  Vast  areas  of  valu- 
able land,  a  precious  natural  resource,  have  been  diverted 
from  other  uses,  real  and  potential,  to  those  associated  with 
the  movement  and  storage  of  vehicles. 

The  point  made  here  is  that  the  measure  of  value  of  an 
engineering  accomplishment  is  obviously  time  dependent. 


THE   JOURNAL 


An  engineering  solution  of  yesterday  can  be  an  engineering 
problem  of  tomorrow;  a  success  of  yesterday,  a  failure  of 
tomorrow.  A  need  of  yesterday  can  be  an  unwanted 
commodity  of  tomorrow.  These  are  truths  that  can  be 
evidenced  by  example  after  example.  Human  values  deter- 
mine what  is  success  and  what  is  failure.  Human  values 
change,  sometimes  rapidly  and  radically. 

Unfortunately,  there  appears  to  be  no  way  to  com- 
pletely avoid  dislocations  of  forces  and  their  resulting 
impact  upon  human  values  and  society.  The  important 
thing,  from  the  viewpoint  of  engineering  practice  and  of 
engineering  education,  is  to  recognize  that  the  engineer 
must  move  with  equal  ease  between  the  abstract  world  of 
science  and  technology  and  the  real  world  of  people  and 
culture.  C.  P.  Snow,  the  British  scientist  and  novelist,  once 
spoke  of  these  two  worlds  as  the  "two  cultures",  deploring 
the  widening  gap  between  the  culture  of  the  scientist  and 
the  culture  of  the  humanist.  He,  as  well  as  most  engineers 
and  engineering  educators  of  the  past  and  of  today, 
overlooked  the  fact  that  the  engineer  is  the  bridge  between 
the  two. 

By  virtue  of  education  and  inclination,  the  engineer, 
almost  alone,  must  shuttle  between  the  "two  cultures".  The 
conflict  between  East  and  West,  the  conflicts  between 
different  economic  and  political  systems,  the  rising  aspira- 
tions of  the  economically  depressed,  the  explosion  in 
scientific  knowledge,  the  rapidly  accelerating  growth  of 
human  population,  all  of  these  factors  and  many  more 
make  technological  advance  an  absolute  necessity.  But  even 
while  society  demands  engineering  progress  as  necessary  for 
physical  well-being,  health,  comfort,  and  safety,  for  higher 
standards  of  production  and  consumption,  for  a  better  way 
of  life  for  all,  it  must,  quite  properly,  insist  that  engineers 
design  organized  technological  systems  also  to  preserve, 
protect,  and  enhance  those  social,  ethical,  moral,  and  legal 
institutions  which  truly  represent  the  highest  aspiration  of 
the  culture  of  which  the  engineer  is  a  part.  This  places  an 
incredible  burden  of  responsibility  on  the  engineer.  He 
must  creatively  exploit  scientific  knowledge  to  improve 
existing,  or  to  design  new,  technological  systems,  while 
protecting  and  enhancing  national  cultural  and  social 
aspirations.  Although  no  man,  nor  any  group  of  men,  is 
sufficiently  wise  to  foresee  all  the  social  and  cultural 
stresses  created  by  an  advance  in  technology,  engineers  have 
a  responsibility  to  minimize  dislocations  antithetical  to  the 
expressed  aspirations  of  their  city,  state,  nation,  or  culture. 
Failing  in  this,  they  may  destroy  the  very  essence  of  the 
culture  they  are  striving  to  protect  and  enhance. 

Engineering  education,  as  it  was  formulated  in  the 
not-too-recent  past  and  as  it  has  existed  even  to  today,  was 
obviously  geared  to  a  consideration  of  those  needs  of 
society  and  human  values  associated  with  the  "industrial 
revolution".  Truly  to  be  admired  are  those  educational 
leaders    of   the    past   century    who    evolved    patterns    of 


education  completely  attuned  to  the  practice  of  engineering 
—  practice  that  was,  in  all  respects,  completely  compatible 
with  societal  needs  and  desires.  Engineering  practice  was 
"hardware"  oriented.  Engineering  designs  produced  those 
systems  of  machines  and  processes  that  made  possible  the 
development  of  an  unprecedented  technologically-based 
economy.  With  marvelous  rapidity  this  nation  became  the 
most  affluent  society  on  earth.  During  that  era,  engineers 
made  possible  the  tremendous  productive  capacity  of  our 
industrial  complex.  They  engineered  systems  of  trans- 
portation and  communication  which,  indeed,  made  this 
nation  a  single  community  wherein  all  segments  could 
achieve  full  mutual  benefit  from  the  natural  and  man-pro- 
duced resources  of  all  others.  They  made  possible,  and 
necessary,  the  development  of  our  huge  centers  of  popula- 
tion and  provided  the  structural  designs  necessary  to 
achieve  compactness  and  conveniences  compatible  with 
then  current  standards.  They  produced  those  designs  that 
have  given  modern  personal  convenience  and  comfort  to 
individuals  and  to  families.  They  have  produced  countless 
gadgetry  designed  specifically  to  make  life  more  enjoyable. 

In  all  respects,  up  to  the  recent  past,  engineering  has 
been  spectacularly  successful  in  its  role  as  the  bridge 
between  scientific  and  human  cultures.  It  is  speculated  that 
the  success  it  has  enjoyed  has  tremendous  influence  on 
what  appears  to  be  a  reluctance  to  reorient  —  a  reluctance 
that  is  similarly  reflected  in  engineering  education.  It  is 
perhaps  the  case  that  the  prolonged  relevance  of  engi- 
neering practice  and  education,  through  several  decades,  to 
human  values  has  led  to  a  lulling  of  the  senses.  The 
importance  of  the  real  world  of  human  values  has  been 
completely  overshadowed  by  the  successes  of  the  past 
brought  about  in  the  abstract  world  of  technology.  Human 
values,  the  real  or  desired  needs  and  interests  of  society, 
have  changed  over  the  past  couple  of  decades,  subtly  at  first 
but  more  explosively  in  the  recent  past.  Prime  need  exists 
now  not  for  the  industrially-geared  engineering  systems  of 
the  past  but  for  the  sociologically-geared  engineering 
systems  attune  with  present  values. 

Man  has  constantly  altered  his  environment  through 
technological  "progress".  Such  alterations  generally  force 
him  to  respond  to  the  very  changes  he  has  caused. 
Accommodation,  in  the  past,  has  been  an  evolutionary 
adaptation  process.  Technological  advances  of  the  recent 
past,  accelerating  at  an  ever-increasing  rate,  together  with 
accelerating  industrialization,  urbanization,  and  population 
growth  among  others,  all  have  combined  to  similarly 
accelerate  the  rate  at  which  accommodation  must  be  made 
in  order  to  maintain  proper  balance  between  scientific  and 
human  value  cultures.  All  have  introduced  new  and  serious 
threats  to  man's  health  and  well-being.  Accommodations 
can  no  longer  be  accomplished  without  rational  planning. 

This  crisis  in  the  affairs  of  man  has  become  known  in 
this  land,  and   in  other  highly  developed  nations,  as  the 


THE  JOURNAL 


urban  crisis.  Most  of  the  ever-mounting  problems  that  are  as 
yet  unsolved  arise  out  of  urbanization,  and  urbanization  is 
the  inescapable  distribution  pattern  for  populations  of 
man's  entire  future.  Transportation  in  and  between  urban 
centers,  the  preservation  of  land,  air,  water,  power,  and 
space,  their  allocation,  collection,  and  treatment  and  dis- 
posal of  wastes,  preservation  of  recreational  resources, 
rehabilitation,  preservation  of  residential  values,  elimination 
of  blighted  areas,  land  values,  commercial  interests,  indus- 
trial expansion  —  these  are  all  contemporary  problems  that 
have  not  been  adequately  solved  and  that  will  continue  to 
increase  in  magnitude  and  importance  with  time. 

The  exclusively  man  vs.  machine  age  of  engineering 
practice  is  obsolete.  Human  values  today  require  a  reor- 
iented approach.  The  man  vs.  environment  age  of  engi- 
neering is  the  pattern  of  the  future  if,  indeed,  it  is  not 
already  overdue.  The  industrial  crisis  of  the  past  has  been 
replaced  with  the  urban  crisis  of  today.  Engineering 
practice  and  engineering  education  must  be  reoriented  to 
face  the  challenges  of  this  crisis. 

CIVIL  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  MODERN  AGE 

Through  the  ages,  a  great  deal  of  attention  has  been 
given  by  many  to  a  properly  drawn  definition  of  engi- 
neering in  general  and  the  various  engineering  disciplines  in 
particular.  It  is  difficult  to  resist  the  temptation  to  add  still 
another  inadequate  definition  to  those  already  in  existence 
for  civil  engineering,  but  preference  is  given  to  sensible 
indifference  to  the  definition  game.  Civil  engineering  is 
simply  what  a  civil  engineer  does.  He  knows  what  it  is  but 
generally  is  too  busy  doing  it  and  enjoying  it  to  worry 
about  defining  it.  An  insight  into  the  wide  variety  of 
endeavors  involved  in  civil  engineering  practice  can  be  had 
from  a  perusal  of  the  titles  of  the  fourteen  current  technical 
divisions  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers: 
Aero-Space  Transport,  Construction,  Engineering  Mechan- 
ics, Highways,  Hydraulics,  Irrigation  and  Drainage,  Pipeline, 
Power,  Sanitary  Engineering,  Soil  Mechanics  and  Founda- 
tions, Structural,  Surveying  and  Mapping,  Urban  Planning 
and  Development,  and  Waterways  and  Harbors.  All  of  these 
can  be  broadly  classified  as  components  or  functions  in  one 
or  more  of  four  broad  subsystems  in  the  total  system  of 
civil  engineering  practice:  transportation  systems,  structural 
systems,  environmental  control  systems,  and  urban  plan- 
ning systems. 

Two  all-important  features  dominate  the  practice  of  civil 
engineering  and  make  such  practice  significantly  different 
from  the  practice  of  engineering  of  the  other  classical 
disciplines.  First,  civil  engineering  design  in  any  one  of  the 
areas  delineated  above  is  systems  design.  In  most  instances 
of  civil  engineering  works,  such  systems  become  subsystems 
to  a  larger  system  in  the  sense  that  such  works  generally 
involve  an  amalgamation  involving  several  of  the  delineated 
areas.  Secondly,  and  perhaps  most  importantly,  it  should  be 


clear  that  civil  engineering,  much  more  than  any  other 
branch  of  engineering,  is  engineering  for  basic  human  needs. 
The  involvement  of  the  civil  engineer  with  the  society  he 
serves  is  direct.  Further,  civil  engineering,  much  more  than 
any  other  branch,  is  interdisciplinary.  Sanitary  engineering 
and  structural  engineering,  for  example,  have  distinctly 
different  scientific  bases.  The  direct  relation  of  civil 
engineering  with  people  suggests  an  appropriate  involv- 
ement with  sociology,  government,  politics,  economics,  and 
administration,  among  others. 

Clearly  indicated  is  the  fact  that  civil  engineering 
practice  must  involve  a  systems  engineering  approach  that 
takes  into  account  the  interdependence  of  all  factors  and 
permits  decision-making  on  some  rational  basis.  The  piece- 
meal approach  concentrated  on  limited  and  disjointed 
objectives  such  as  air  quality  control,  water  quality  control, 
sanitation,  and  transportation,  each  for  its  own  sake,  will 
continue,  but  systems  analysis  must  be  applied  to  these  as 
subsystems  of  some  total  system.  Ultimate  design  of  a 
subsystem,  impeccable  as  it  may  be,  must  ultimately  stand 
the  test  of  acceptability  into  the  total  system. 

Systems  analysis  is  not  new  to  civil  engineering  practice. 
As  previously  described,  design  in  any  one  of  the  divisions 
of  practice  involves  systems  analysis,  and  civil  engineering 
works  usually  require  the  amalgamation  of  systems  repre- 
senting more  than  one  of  the  recognized  divisions.  Systems 
analysis,  as  it  is  currently  applied,  is  almost  exclusively 
oriented  toward  technological  aspects  of  design.  Decidedly 
lacking  is  the  all-important  interface  and  interaction  with 
social  values.  It  should  be  clearly  obvious  that  most 
effective  decision  making  can  be  accomplished  only  with 
the  aid  of  analysis  based  on  all  related  elements  that  are 
significant  subsystems  of  the  total  physical  and  social 
environmental  system. 

The  problems  involved  in  the  environmental  system  have 
several  common  and  general  characteristics.  They  include 
several  components.  Each  component  contains  several 
variables.  Interactions  between  components  are  generally 
more  important  than  the  components  themselves.  Variation 
with  time  is  a  dominating  factor.  The  allocation  of  limited 
resources  and  economic  efficiency  is  an  important  consider- 
ation. Decisions  must  be  made  from  that  viewpoint.  Such 
decisions  must  be  made  under  a  high  degree  of  uncertainty 
about  the  future.  Great  dependence  must  exist  on  prob- 
abilities and  statistical  inferences.  Solutions  depend  on 
quantification  of  the  elements  of  the  system.  They  depend 
also  on  optimization  of  the  response  of  the  system. 

This  is  the  challenge  of  the  modern  age  to  the  practice 
of  engineering.  This  is  the  challenge  to  engineering  educa- 
tion. Because  the  traditional  interests  of  the  civil  engi- 
neering profession  have  always  spoken  directly  to  the  needs 
of  society  in  all  of  the  areas  of  concern,  this,  more  than  for 
any  other  discipline,  is  the  direction  in  which  civil 
engineering  education  must   turn.  It  is  not  to  be  implied 


THE    JOURNAL 


that  the  environmental  system  is  alone  civil  engineering.  Far 
from  it.  However,  that  discipline  is,  inescapably,  the  key 
element  and  must  play  a  dominant  role  in  a  systems 
engineering  approach  to  the  problems  of  the  human 
environment. 

These  considerations  lead  conclusively  and  specifically 
to  a  non-traditional  approach  to  the  traditional  education 
of  civil  engineers, which  will  add  new  dimension  and  power. 
Each  substantive  application  area  must  be  pursued  with  a 
view  to  a  central  emphasis,  the  entire  environmental 
system.  Until  such  time  as  civil  engineering  education  meets 
the  objective  of  enhancing  the  ability  of  a  student  to  deal 
effectively  with  modern  problems  in  a  particular  setting; 
until  such  time  as  civil  engineering  education  brings  the 
student  to  the  position  of  attaining  a  general  problem 
solving  ability  that  will  permit  him  to  contribute  in  a 
number  of  different  problem  settings;  until  such  time  as 
civil  engineering  education  provides  to  the  student  the 
ability  to  integrate  and  interrelate  aspects  of  several 
settings;  until  then>  civil  engineering  practice  and  education, 
a  key  element  in  the  modern  age  human  environment 
problem,  will  not  properly  respond  to  its  mission.  Until 
then,  all  important  decisions  will  continue  to  be  made  on 
the  same  basis  as  before,  through  artistic,  political,  or 
superficial  economic  considerations. 

CURRICULA  AND  ANCILLARY  CONSIDERATIONS 

Only  a  few  years  ago,  curricula  of  the  various  engi- 
neering disciplines  had  a  narrowly  oriented  base  in  the 
so-called  professional  aspects  of  engineering  design.  Empha- 
sis was  on  the  methodology  necessary  to  produce  the 
hardware  required  to  serve  in  the  development  of  a  rapidly 
developing  industrial  technology.  In  recent  years,  it  became 
evident  to  some  that  the  practice  of  engineering  was  lagging 
somewhat  behind  the  explosive  development  of  scientific 
knowledge.  It  was  no  doubt  apparent  to  engineering 
educators  and  others,  with  an  inborn  bias  toward  tech- 
nology and  overwhelmingly  influenced  by  the  successes  of 
the  past,  that  continued  successes  could  be  accelerated  only 
by  emphasis,  educationally,  on  the  basic  and  engineering 
sciences.  Influenced  greatly  by  ASEE  and  ECPD,  and  by 
the  availability  of  research  funding,  educational  programs  in 
engineering  shifted  toward  a  scientific  base.  At  about  the 
same  time,  sometimes  strongly  and  irrationally  resisted  by 
engineering  educators,  pressures  from  other  sources  led  to 
increased  emphasis  in  curricula  on  liberal  studies.  This  latter 
development  could  be  interpreted  as  a  recognition  of  the 
interface  between  engineering  and  human  values.  A  frank 
evaluation  might,  however,  lead  to  the  observation  that 
efforts  in  this  regard  have  been  more  rhetoric  than  they  are 
of  true  significance. 

What  has  been  the  result  is  evidenced  by  most  present 
day  engineering  curricula.  Everything  that  has  been  done  in 
undergraduate  education  has  been  forced  into  the  time-old 
framework  of  a  four-year  curriculum.  Reluctance  to  change 


and  a  failure  to  recognize  that  change  is  in  order  have  led  to 
the  retention  of  traditional,  and  sometimes  obsolete, 
coursework  and  programs-.  The  time  honored  emphasis  on 
producing  specialists  of  one  sort  or  another  has  been 
generally  retained,  perhaps  watered  down  as  the  result  of 
time  restrictions,  but  still  recognizable  and  still  geared  to  an 
emphasis  on  industrial  development. 

But  far  worse,  graduate  engineering  education  serves 
further  to  entrench  the  traditional  and  sometimes  out- 
moded patterns  of  the  past.  True  specialties  in  narrow  areas 
are  developed  at  the  M.S.  level  and,  in  a  sense,  almost  trivial 
facets  of  a  specialty  are  highly  developed  at  more  advanced 
levels.  While  society  with  its  problems  demands  a  more 
broadly  educated  engineer,  education  continues  to  produce 
an  overabundance  of  those  ever  more  narrowly  oriented. 
These,  in  general,  become  the  educators  of  new  generations, 
and  the  system  is  self-perpetuating. 

It  is  not  to  be  implied  from  the  above  statements  that 
there  no  longer  is  need  for  the  engineering  specialist  capable 
to  design  technological  systems  much  the  same  as  in  the 
past.  It  is  also  not  to  be  implied  that  there  is  no  longer  need 
for  the  engineering  researcher  deeply  involved  in  the 
technical  aspects  that  lie  at  the  base  of  engineering 
solutions.  The  broad  range  of  works  in  civil  engineering 
practice  requires,  for  many,  inevitable  specialization  over 
only  a  limited  range  of  the  technological  spectrum  in  order 
that  distinct  and  worthwhile  contributions  can  be  made  to 
the  whole.  On  the  other  hand,  complex  projects  require 
civil  engineering  generalists  with  a  broad  understanding  of 
several  of  the  areas  of  the  profession.  These  considerations 
have  a  complex  influence  on  civil  engineering  educational 
programs  in  that  they  require  the  opportunity  for  breadth 
as  well  as  depth  in  the  technically  oriented  portions  of  the 
curriculum.  Further,  since  the  most  significant  charac- 
teristic of  the  technical  output  of  today's  civil  engineer  is 
its  influence  on  society,  a  properly  oriented  civil  engi- 
neering curriculum  must  provide  a  balance  between  tech- 
nological content  and  that  associated  with  social  respon- 
sibility. It  is  this  latter  element,  heretofore  generally  lacking 
in  the  mental  equipment  of  the  young  civil  engineer,  that 
must  receive  considerable  attention  in  his  education. 

Although  the  technical  aspects  of  civil  engineering  are, 
as  they  always  have  been,  key  elements  in  the  human  needs 
problems  of  engineering,  other  disciplines  are  also  involved. 
A  few  of  the  more  important  are  sociology,  government 
and  politics,  management  and  administration,  business  and 
economics  and  others  such  as  the  basic  sciences  and  biology 
and  public  health  aspects  of  medicine.  The  broad  educa- 
tional perspective  is  at  least  the  opportunity  for  a  complete 
interdisciplinary  approach  providing  strong  linkages  among 
various  of  the  supporting  elements. 

Another  important  consideration  is  involvement.  In  civil 
engineering  practice  there  is  direct  involvement  of  the 
practitioner   in   problems  at  the  human  interface.  Oppor- 

Continued  on  page  34 


rHE  JOURNAL 


CAMPUS    NOTES 


CURRICULUM  CHANGES 
Computer  Science  Program 

The  faculty  has  approved  an  under- 
graduate degree  program  in  computer 
science  effective  in  the  fall  of  1970.  It 
is  added  to  the  degree  programs  at  WPI 
only  one  year  after  a  master's  degree 
program  in  computer  science  was 
adopted  at  WPI.  The  new  program, 
however,  is  only  a  degree-granting  pro- 
gram and  is  not  a  department.  It  was 
adopted  to  offer  undergraduate-  stu- 
dents a  coherent  and  meaningful  se- 
quence of  courses  in  computer  science 
to  support  their  educational  and 
technical  training,  or  to  prepare  them, 
if  they  so  desire,  for  professional 
careers  in  the  computer  science  field. 

The  program  will  include  such 
courses  as  Higher  Level  Programming, 
Digital  Computing  Processes,  Systems 


Programming,  Business  Data  Proc- 
essing, and  Introduction  to  Analog/ 
Hybrid  Computer  Programming.  In 
addition,  humanistic  courses  such  as 
Social  Implications  of  Information 
Processing  and  Human  Factors  in 
Computer-based  Systems  will  be  re- 
quired. The  program  is  designed  to 
follow  two  computer  courses  presently 
offered  as  electives  in  the  freshman 
year,  and  it  will  result  in  the  awarding 
of  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  at  the 
end  of  four  years. 

Physics  Curriculum 

The  faculty  has  also  approved  a 
curriculum  change  for  undergraduate 
physics  majors  which  will  allow  a 
greater  degree  of  flexibility  in  their 
program.  In  a  move  which  will  permit 
physics  majors  to  better  meet  career 
objectives,   the   new   program  has  re- 


Freshmen  receive  their  grades  and  register  for  the  second  semester. 


duced  the  number  of  required  credits 
in  the  junior  and  senior  years  to  1 5  per 
semester  from  the  previous  require- 
ment of  18  credits  per  semester  each 
year. 

The  new  program  requires  42  credit 
hours  in  physics  and  21  credit  hours  in 
mathematics  for  graduation  as  op- 
posed to  the  previous  requirements  of 
51  credits  in  physics  and  27  credits  in 
mathematics.  Also  available  will  be  an 
option  for  the  student  to  take  a  lab 
course  or  a  project  course. 

WORCESTER  CONSORTIUM 
PARTICIPATION 

Formed  in  1968  with  a  goal  of 
broadening  and  enriching  academic 
and  continuing  education  opportu- 
nities in  the  Worcester  area,  the 
Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher 
Education,  Inc.  has  shown  continual 
growth,  and  interest  is  increasing. 
Figures  for  the  fall  semester  of  1969 
indicate  a  total  of  173  Worcester-area 
college  students  cross  registered.  This 
was  a  marked  increase  over  the  96 
students  who  participated  in  the  pro- 
gram during  the  spring  semester  of 
1969.  In  addition,  each  semester,  a 
number  of  students  enroll  in  courses  at 
the  Worcester  Art  Museum,  and  these 
figures  are  not  included  in  the  totals 
shown. 

WPI  participation  has  been  some- 
what limited  and  involved  a  total  of  18 
students  and  63  credit  hours  of  cross 
registration  at  other  schools  during  the 
fall  semester  of  1969.  This  included  12 
students  who  attended  Clark  Univer- 
sity courses  during  the  day  and  six 
students  who  participated  in  evening 
courses  at  Clark.  Cross  registration 
from  other  schools  to  WPI  last  fall 
included  two  from  Assumption,  nine 
from  Clark,  and  five  from  Holy  Cross. 


10 


THE    JOURNAL 


Construction  of  Stoddard  Residence  Center  progresses 

rapidly  toward  an  anticipated 

completion  date  of  early  fall,  1970. 


Clark  and  Holy  Cross  have  been  the 
most  active  participants  in  the  Con- 
sortium. Last  fall  74  Clark  students 
and  52  Holy  Cross  students  registered 
at  other  institutions.  These  two 
schools  were  also  popular  with  stu- 
dents from  other  schools,  as  76  regis- 
tered at  Clark  and  57  participated  at 
Holy  Cross. 

MORATORIUM  ACTIVITY 

WPI  had  a  somewhat  limited  in- 
volvement in  the  Vietnam  morato- 
riums last  fall.  The  October  mora- 
torium involved  a  varying  number  of 
students  and  WPI  personnel  through- 
out the  day.  The  decision  to  hold 
classes  on  that  day  was  left  to  each 
instructor  and  in  most  cases  classes 
were  held,  but  the  attendance  was  low. 
The  day  began  with  about  75  students 
attending  a  teach-in  at  Olin  Hall  which 
was  a  brief  history  class  about  the 
Vietnam  war.  Later  that  morning, 
about  20  WPI  students  joined  a  large 
number  of  students  from  other  area 
colleges  in  distributing  anti-war  leaflets 
and  petitions  throughout  the  city. 

The  largest  activity  of  the  day  was 
a   peace   rally  by  college  students  in 


downtown  Worcester.  An  estimated 
400  WPI  students  participated  in  the 
rally  and  the  peaceful  and  orderly 
march  downtown  from  the  campus. 
The  rally  included  speakers  from  many 
of  the  area  colleges,  but  WPI  was  not 
represented  on  the  speaker's  platform. 

The  march  on  Washington  was  at- 
tended by  about  40  WPI  students  who 
made  the  trip  to  Washington  by  char- 
tered bus.  Most  of  those  who  attended 
found  sleeping  quarters  on  the  gymna- 
sium floor  at  Catholic  University,  and 
at  least  some  were  disappointed  that 
the  march  failed  to  gain  more  atten- 
tion than  it  did  in  Washington.  Ac- 
cording to  Paul  J.  Cleary,  '71,  who 
attended  and  wrote  the  following  for 
the  Tech  News,  "Most  people  in  the 
city  paid  little  attention  to  the 
240,000  marchers. ..The  President's 
ability  to  ignore  large-scale  dissatis- 
faction is  incredible. ..The  march  is 
over  now  and  no  change  in  our  Viet- 
nam policy  has  been  effected.  In  that 
light,  the  march  on  Washington  can 
only  be  judged  as  the  most  impressive 
failure  in  the  history  of  anti-Vietnam 
protests." 


COMMUNITY  COUNCIL  FORMED 

A  Tech  Community  Council  has 
been  formed  on  campus  as  a  method 
for  the  faculty,  students,  and  adminis- 
tration to  get  together  on  an  equal 
basis  to  discuss  anything  which  con- 
cerns WPI.  It  is  the  first  time  in  the 
history  of  the  Institute  that  a  formally 
structured  organization  such  as  this 
has  ever  existed.  The  Council  is  com- 
posed of  13  members,  six  of  whom  are 
students,  and  includes  the  following 
distribution:  five  undergraduates,  one 
graduate  student,  four  faculty,  and 
three  administration  members.  The 
undergraduate  student  body  elected 
two  students,  one  faculty  member, 
and  one  administrator;  the  graduate 
students  elected  their  representative; 
the  faculty  elected  one  student,  two 
faculty  members,  and  one  adminis- 
trator; and  the  President  appointed 
one  student,  one  faculty  member,  and 
one  administrator. 

The  Council  was  not  formed  to  be 
an  action  group  on  campus,  nor  was  it 
formed  to  supercede  any  existing 
campus  organization.  Rather  it  was 
formed  with  the  sole  purpose  of  pro- 
viding a  forum  for  discussion.  From 
the  discussions,  however,  the  Council 
will  be  able  to  make  recommendations 
to  groups  on  campus,  so  that  they  may 
take  any  appropriate  action.  Thus  a 
new  method  has  been  introduced  on 
campus  for  improving  communication 
among  students,  faculty,  and  the 
administration. 


Faculty: 

Roy  F.  Bourgault,  '42 

Mechanical  Engineering 
Richard  V.  Olson,  '54 

Mathematics 
Armand  J.  Silva 

Civil  Engineering 
Benjamin  A.  Wooten 

Physics 
St u den  K.- 
Leonard Polizzotto,  '70,  E.E. 

Westbury,  N.  Y. 
Vincent  T.  Pace,  '71,  E.E. 

W.  Hartford,  Conn. 
Paul  B.  Popinchalk,  '71,  M.E. 

Norwich,  Conn. 


THE   JOURNAL 


11 


James  A.  Henderson,  '72,  E.E. 

New  Haven,  Conn. 
Robert  H.  Epstein,  '73 

Woodmere,  N.  Y. 

Graduate  Student: 

James  I.  Joubert,  '66,  Ch.E. 

Worcester,  Mass. 

Administration: 
William  F.  Elliott, '66 

Assistant  Director  of  Admissions 
Kenneth  A.  Nourse 

Associate  Dean  of  Student  Affairs 
and  Director  of  Admissions 
Gardner  T.  Pierce 

Administrative  Assistant  to  the 
President 


GLEE  CLUB  ON  TOUR 

The  WPI  Glee  Club,  under  the  very 
capable  direction  of  Prof.  Louis  Cur- 
ran,  will  make  a  one-week  concert  tour 
during  the  week  of  March  30,  1970. 
The  itinerary  will  include  Albany, 
N.Y.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  and  Cleveland, 
Ohio.  In  each  city,  the  Glee  Club  will 
present  an  evening  concert,  with  a 
local  girls'  college  if  possible,  for  WPI 
alumni,  friends,  and  the  public.  This 
will  be  followed  the  next  morning  by 
an  appearance  in  at  least  one  of  the 
area  high  schools. 

The  Glee  Club  will  also  travel  to 
New  York  City  for  a  Palm  Sunday 
afternoon  concert  at  St.  Thomas 
Cathedral.  In  addition,  a  trip  to  the 
Washington,  D.C.  area  is  being  con- 
sidered for  mid-April. 

The  tour  to  Albany,  Pittsburgh, 
and  Cleveland  is  being  sponsored  as  a 
joint  venture  by  the  Glee  Club  as  a 
worthwhile  musical  experience;  by  the 
Admissions  Office  as  a  public  relations 
activity;  and  by  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion as  alumni  chapter  activity.  It  is 
hoped  that  a  majority  of  the  housing 
on  this  trip  will  be  provided  by 
alumni,  parents  of  students,  and 
friends. 

The  Glee  Club  currently  consists  of 
over  60  members.  They  have  been 
extremely  successful  in  recent  years 
and  already  this  academic  year  they 
have  presented  two  impressive  con- 
certs in  Worcester  and  Boston  with 
Wheelock  College. 


CHANGE  TO  COMPUTER 

The  Alumni  Association  is  cur- 
rently converting  its  record  system  to 
storage  on  the  Worcester  Area  College 
Computation  Center  computer.  In  a 
move  which  is  also  being  made  by 
several  other  Worcester-area  colleges, 
the  Association  will  be  able  to  more 
effectively  serve  both  her  alumni  and 
the  school  when  the  conversion  is 
completed  around  March  1,  1970. 

Among  the  benefits,  the  change 
will  enable  the  Association  to  address 
most  of  its  mail  with  the  computer,  it 
will  maintain  a  more  current  record 
system    in    regards   to   addresses  and 


businesses,  it  will  provide  a  more 
effective  Alumni  Fund  program  by 
providing  frequent  up-dates  of  partici- 
pation, it  will  enable  district  alumni 
chapters  to  maintain  closer  contact 
with  area  alumni,  and  it  will  eliminate 
a  large  amount  of  time-consuming 
filing  in  the  office. 

A  number  of  files,  however,  will 
still  be  maintained  in  the  office  for 
certain  purposes.  The  computer  is  only 
as  effective  as  the  information  which  it 
contains,  and  the  office  personnel  will 
be  responsible  for  keeping  it  up  to 
date.  Thus  the  storage  of  records  on 
the  computer  will  increase  the  effec- 
tiveness with  which  the  Association 
operates. 


Sculptures  by  Michael  Phillips  and  Curtis  Crystal  which  have  been  on  display 
on  the  quadrangle  since  last  October. 


12 


THE    JOURNAL 


VARSITY  REVIEW 


Basketball 

At  press  time,  the  Engineers  have 
compiled  a  respectable  4-5  record  in 
Coach  Jim  Herrion's  first  year  at  WPI 
as  head  basketball  coach.  Herrion,  who 
was  a  former  assistant  and  freshman 
coach  at  Holy  Cross  under  Jack 
Donahue,  is  presently  a  guidance  coun- 
selor at  Tantasqua  Regional  High 
School  in  Sturbridge.  He  has  instilled 
new  desire  and  hustle  in  his  hoopsters, 
and  his  efforts  have  paid  off.  While  the 
record  is  4-5,  two  of  those  losses  came 
in  close  ball  games  away  from  home 
against  well-regarded  Dartmouth  and 
Wesleyan. 

They  opened  the  season  in  Han- 
over, N.H.,  against  a  much  taller  Dart- 
mouth quintet.  Using  a  full  court  zone 
press  and  a  deliberate  offense,  WPI  was 
in  the  ball  game  all  the  way,  tying  the 
score  on  several  occasions,  before 
bowing,  67-58.  It  was  a  well-rounded 
team  effort  with  junior  Steve  Watson 
of  Syosset,  N.Y.  and  sophomore  Jim 
Henderson  of  New  Haven,  Conn,  pro- 
viding the  board  strength,  while  junior 
Ned  Cunningham  of  Waterbury,  Conn, 
and  junior  co-captain  Tim  Rooney  of 
Ludlow,  Mass.  led  the  offense  with  20 
and  21  points  respectively. 

On  their  next  outing  the  Engineers 
evened  their  record  at  1-1  by  rolling 
over  a  small  Brooklyn  College  team, 
83-52.  Once  again  a  strong  defense, 
which  caused  27  turnovers,  and  strong 
rebounding  played  a  major  role.  Tim 
Rooney  led  all  scorers  with  25  points, 
and  Jim  Henderson  chipped  in  with  13 
points  and  a  large  number  of  rebounds 
and  blocked  shots.  Rooney,  inciden- 
tally, was  22  for  24  from  the  foul  line 
in  his  first  two  games.  The  hoopsters 
next  lost  a  heartbreaker  to  Wesleyan, 
77-75,  in  a  double  overtime  ball  game. 
After  being  down  36-28  at  half  time, 
they  were  psyched  when  they  returned 
to  the  floor  and  fought  back  to  tie  the 
score  at  62-62  at  the  end  of  regulation 


time.     Ned     Cunningham     led     WPI's 
scorers  with  16  points. 

Against  a  much  taller  Brown  team 
WPI  lost  its  third  game  of  the  season 
75-64  in  a  Winter  Weekend  home 
game.  The  Engineers  were  plagued  by 
poor  shooting,  poor  rebounding,  and 
an  abundance  of  fouls  which  saw  four 
WPI  players  foul  out.  The  leading 
scorers  were  Rooney  with  17,  Cun- 
ningham with  15,  and  junior  Don 
Backlund  of  Rehoboth,  Mass.  with  12. 
The  team  brought  its  record  to  2-3  in  a 
well-played  game  at  home  against 
Amherst,  winning  70-67.  Once  again 
the  zone  press  created  a  number  of 
scoring  opportunities  and  offensively 
the  team  was  led  by  some  fine  foul 
shooting  and  ball  handling  by  Tim 
Rooney. 

In  other  games  in  this  first  portion 
of  the  season,  the  Engineers  lost  to 
nationally-ranked  Assumption, 
101-75;  lost  to  MIT,  87-61;  defeated 
Bowdoin,  83-64,  and  defeated  Lowell 
98-75. 

There  are  only  two  seniors  on  the 
team,  and  they  have  seen  very  little 
action  so  far.  Co-captain  Ollie  Briggs 
of  Rutland,  Mass.  was  injured  and  did 
not  dress  for  the  first  six  games.  The 
remainder  of  the  squad  is  made  up 
about  evenly  of  juniors  and  sopho- 
mores and  with  the  hustle  and  desire 
displayed  so  far,  this  "building  year" 
should  lead  to  bigger  and  better  sea- 
sons in  the  future. 

The  freshman  basketball  team, 
however,  has  been  a  disappointment  to 
Coach  Ken  Kaufman,  who  is  in  his 
first  year  of  coaching  at  WPI.  They 
lost  their  first  six  games,  mostly  by 
wide  margins,  although  they  played 
their  best  game  at  Wesleyan,  losing  by 
4,  72-68.  One  bright  spot  has  been  the 
offensive  play  of  Bill  lerardi  of  Ham- 
den,  Conn.  He  is  the  team's  leading 
scorer  and  is  averaging  over  20  points  a 
game,  including  a  45-point  effort 
against  MIT. 


Swimming 

After  the  first  two  meets  of  the 
season,  the  swimming  team  is  off  to  an 
excellent  start  with  a  record  of  2-0. 

Led  by  sophomores  Al  Nafis  and 
Bruce  Eteson  who  turned  in  record- 
setting  performances,  Coach  Carl 
Peterson's  Mermen  dumped  Holy 
Cross  in  their  first  meet  72-19.  Nafis 
knocked  a  full  six  seconds  off  the 
school  record  in  the  200-yard  butter- 
fly with  a  time  of  2:35.5  and  Eteson 
broke  the  school  record  in  the  200- 
yard  breaststroke  by  0.3  seconds  with 
a  time  of  2:38.1.  In  the  process  of 
defeating  Holy  Cross,  the  strong  WPI 
team  won  every  event  except  diving 
and  gave  up  only  two  second  place 
finishes,  thus  showing  its  depth  and 
balance. 

Against  a  fairly  strong  Trinity  Col- 
lege Swim  team,  WPI  again  showed  its 
strength  and  depth  by  scoring  a  67-27 
victory.  On  their  way  to  victory,  the 
Engineers  won  eight  of  1 1  events  and 
set  two  school  records.  Al  Nafis  once 
again  set  a  record,  this  time  in  the 
500-yard  free-style,  with  a  time  of 
5:37.7.  Sophomore  John  Loehmann 
also  set  a  record  with  a  winning  time 
of  1:46.7  in  the  100-yard  individual 
medley.  Other  strong  performances 
were  turned  in  by  co-captain  Lou 
Zitnay  and  Tom  Weil. 

Coach  Peterson  has  a  good  reason 
to  be  smiling  these  days.  Not  only  is 
his  varsity  team  undefeated,  but  his 
freshman  team  also  has  a  perfect  rec- 
ord, having  scored  impressive  victories 
over  Assumption  Prep  and  Nichols.  In 
addition,  Steve  Johnson,  from  Weth- 
ersfield,  Conn.,  and  Fred  Baker,  from 
Falmouth,  Me.,  have  been  officially 
timed  faster  than  the  existing  school 
records  in  the  200-yard  breaststroke 
and  200-yard  backstroke,  respectively. 
Thus,  with  a  strong  freshman  team  and 
with  sophomores  setting  school  rec- 
ords on  the  varsity,  it  looks  like  the 
swimming  outlook,  not  only  for  this 


FHE  JOURNAL 


13 


year  but  for  the  next  few  years,  is  very 
good. 

Wrestling 

After  the  first  three  matches  of  the 
season.  Coach  John  Vino's  wrestling 
team  has  a  record  of  1-2. 

The  Matmen  opened  the  season 
against  a  relatively  weak  Brandeis 
team,  defeating  them  32-10.  After 
forfeiting  the  118-lb.  and  126-lb. 
matches,  they  came  up  with  four  pins 
and  four  decisions  to  decisively  defeat 
the  Judges.  Senior  co-captains  Lenny 
Polizzotto  and  Phil  Warren,  along  with 
Jeff  Petry,  '72,  and  Art  Geetersloh, 
'72,  all  came  up  with  pins.  Scott 
Wallace  (134),  Bobby  Mills  (150), 
Greg  Dickson  (158),  and  Ken  Koike- 
beck  (190),  all  won  by  decisions. 
Outstanding  spirit  and  conditioning 
were  very  much  in  evidence  as  WPI 
overcame  injuries  and  illness  to  win 
their  first  match. 

The  Coast  Guard  Academy  pro- 
vided the  opposition  for  the  first  home 
match,  and  they  defeated  WPI  34-10. 
It  was  a  night  which  started  out  similar 
to  the  Brandeis  match  with  WPI  for- 
feiting the  118-  and  126-lb.  classes. 
Polizzotto  then  pinned  his  opponent 
in  the  first  period,  but  Coast  Guard 
came  back  to  win  the  next  three 
matches  with  two  decisions  and  a  pin. 
Jeff  Petry  then  won  his  match  by 
default,  following  an  illegal  slam  which 
left  him  unconscious,  but  his  were  the 
last  points  WPI  would  score. 

In  their  third  encounter  of  the 
season,  the  Matmen  lost  to  a  strong 
M.I.T.  team,  33-13.  Winners  for  WPI 
were  Geetersloh  and  John  Zorabedian, 
who  both  won  by  falls,  and  Polizzotto, 
who  decisioned  his  opponent.  With  his 
victory,  Polizzotto  brought  his  colle- 
giate wrestling  record  to  33-4-1 . 

The  same  night,  the  frosh  wrestlers 
lost  in  their  first  match  of  the  season 
to  M.I.T.,  29-12.  A  promising  prospect 
from  this  team  appears  to  be  Mike 
Varga  of  Danbury,  Conn.,  who  wres- 
tles at  126  lbs. 

In  other  wrestling  action,  Lenny 
Polizzotto  captured  the  134-lb.  cham- 
pionship at  the  7th  Annual  M.I.T. 
Christmas  Holiday  Open.  He  defeated 


four  opponents  on  his  way  to  the 
finals,  and  in  the  final  match  he 
pinned  his  opponent  at  3:50  to  make 
his  record  8-0  for  the  season.  WPI  also 
did  well  as  a  team  as  they  came  up 
with  a  fifth  place  over-all  finish  in  a 
field  of  29  schools. 

Sports  Slants 

Soccer  team  (7-2-1)  named  New 
England  Small  College  Champions. 
Congratulations!. ..Mike  Santora  se- 
lected to  the  first  team  All-New  Eng- 
land defensive  football  team  for  his 
play  at  right  defensive  end.  Mike  will 
be  a  co-captain  of  the  team  next  fall 
along  with  Richard  Lisauskas...Vic 
Fusia,  head  football  coach  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  was  the 
Fall  Sports  Banquet  speaker. ..Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon  I.F.  volleyball  champions 
with  12-0  record. ..Former  ROTC  Sgt. 
Herbert  Mello  is  the  new  trainer  in  the 
Athletic  Department...  Sig  Ep  and 
Shield  leading  I.F.  basketball  at  press 
time. ..Hockey  club  had  a  record  of  1-4 
when  they  broke  for  exams. 


SPRING 

SPORTS 


Baseball 

Coach  Charlie  McNulty,  entering 
his  23rd  season  as  head  baseball  coach 
at  WPI,  will  have  a  large  number  of 
veterans  to  build  his  team  around. 
Gone  from  last  year's  club,  which 
compiled  a  7-6  record,  are  only  three 
starters:  southpaw  Art  Katsaros,  one 
of  only  two  starting  pitchers,  and  two 
outfielders,  Ed  Griffith  and  Bob 
Magarian. 

McNulty  will  have  his  entire  infield 
returning,  along  with  his  catcher,  two 
pitchers,  and  one  outfielder  from  a 
year  ago.  Co-captains  John  Pel  I  i  of 
Cranston,  R.I.,  a  catcher  with  two  full 
years  of  experience,  and  Bob  Johnson 
of  W.  Boylston,  Mass.,  an  outfielder, 
lead    those   returning.    Other  veterans 


include  first  baseman  Tom  Rogers  of 
Berlin,  Conn.;  second  baseman  Tim 
Rooney  of  Ludlow,  Mass.;  shortstop 
George  Moore  of  N.  Grafton,  Mass.; 
third  baseman  Greg  Sankey  of  Mans- 
field, Mass.;  and  infielder  Steve 
Johnson  of  Holden,  Mass. 

Pitching  appears  to  be  the  big 
question  mark.  The  only  hurlers  re- 
turning are  Bill  Beloff  of  Rockport, 
Mass.,  a  starter  along  with  Katsaros 
last  year,  and  relief  pitcher  Steve  Katz 
of  Worcester.  Other  prospects  include 
Gary  Smith  of  Holden,  Mass.,  a  starter 
two  years  ago  who  missed  last  season, 
and  Jim  Keefe  of  Arlington,  Mass., 
who  didn't  play  freshman  ball  last 
year. 

The  team  opens  the  season  April  1 1 
with  a  scheduled  doubleheader  with 
MIT. 

Track  and  Field 

After  compiling  a  somewhat  dis- 
appointing 7-8  record  last  year,  head 
coach  Merl  Norcross  is  looking  for- 
ward to  having  a  winning  season  this 
year.  Graduation  last  year  took, 
among  others,  Charlie  Zepp,  an  out- 
standing 440-yd.  man  who  holds  the 
WPI  record  in  that  event,  and  sprinter 
Duncan  Loomis. 

Norcross  will  have  a  strong  nucleus 
of  veterans  returning  this  spring  which 
he  will  build  his  team  around.  Charlie 
Basner  of  Reading,  Mass.,  in  the  dashes 
and  the  440,  and  Tom  Heinold  of 
Leominster,  Mass.,  in  the  weight 
events,  will  lead  the  team  as  co- 
captains.  Also  returning  will  be  middle 
distance  man  Bob  Downie  of  Warwick, 
R.I.,  Mike  Malone  of  Taunton,  Mass. 
and  Bill  Light  of  Port  Chester,  N.Y., 
both  distance  runners.  A  question 
mark  on  the  team  will  be  sophomore 
Mark  Dupuis  of  Lunenburg,  Mass. 
Mark  set  freshman  records  last  year  in 
both  the  shot-put  and  discus  events, 
but  he  suffered  a  serious  knee  injury 
during  last  fall's  football  season.  The 
biggest  weakness  on  the  team  appears 
to  be  in  the  hurdle  events. 

According  to  Coach  Norcross,  the 
freshmen,  who  participate  in  a  limited 
schedule,  appear  to  be  quite  strong. 


14 


THE    JOURNAL 


The  Gordon  Library 
After  2%  Years 


by 
ALBERT  G.  ANDERSON 

Head  Librarian 


Two  and  one-half  years  have  passed 
since  that  bright  day  when  the  doors 
opened  to  the  George  C.  Gordon 
Library.  Yet  not  all  immediate  reac- 
tions to  that  day  were  optimistic. 
Many  felt  the  library  was  going  to  be  a 
white  elephant  with  inexcusable  ex- 
penses and  perhaps  even  of  little  use. 
Some  faculty  and  students  bemoaned 
the  fact  that  the  departmental  "librar- 
ies" were  no  more,  and  thus,  the  book 
and  periodical  collections  in  the  new 
building  would  just  draw  dust.  Few  of 
the  faculty  and  none  of  the  students 
would  hold  with  such  ideas  today,  for 
this  building  more  than  any  other  has 
tied  the  Institute  together.  Departmen- 
talization is  gone  when  it  comes  to 
library  operations.  Everyone  becomes 
a  part  of  WPI  when  he  enters  the  doors 
of  this  carpeted  interior.  Its  design, 
furnishings  and  decorations  have  set  a 
new  tone  for  future  building  on  the 
campus  as  well  as  proved  that  good 
architecture  means  a  good  investment. 

Services  which  were  nonexistent 
before  are  now  taken  for  granted. 
There  are  few  days  in  which  the 
Seminar  Room  is  not  in  use  by  stu- 
dent, faculty,  and  the  Worcester  Com- 
munity. It  is  thought  prestigious  to 
hold  a  meeting  in  the  Archives  Room. 
Much  interest  is  displayed  at  our  ex- 
hibits on  the  third  floor.  On  the  other 
hand,  disappointment  is  seen  if  the 
latest  home  town  newspaper  or  pop- 
ular periodical  is  not  on  the  rack  or  if 
a  certain  record  or  tape  is  not  available 
in  the  Music  Room.  It  is  hard  some- 
times   to    distinguish    between    one's 


personal  and  professional  attitudes  to 
the  library. 

What  does  a  library  do?  What  is  its 
function?  Whom  does  it  serve?  In 
years  past  a  library  was  a  collection  of 
books  and  periodicals,  neatly  housed 
on  shelves  with  a  few  tables  and  chairs 
for  the  few  people  who  ventured  to 
read  them.  That  concept  has  been 
greatly  vitiated.  Now  one  thinks  of  a 
library  as  a  learning  center  where  tools 
of  the  mind  may  be  stored  and  util- 
ized. Although  hard  cover  books  are 
still  a  major  part  of  any  library,  one 
cannot  ignore  micro-form  reader-print- 
ers, copiers,  electronic  calculators, 
music  and  other  audio  services,  visual 
presentations  through  film  and  dis- 
plays —  individual  and  group  study 
areas  —  even  lounges  in  which  to  relax 
—  all  have  become  library  functions. 
The  library  is  changing  and  will  con- 
tinue to  do  so  in  the  many  years  to 
come.  Yet  can  we  question  this,  for  is 
not  change  an  inherent  component  of 
growth?  If  we  answer  this  in  the 
affirmative,  then  we  must  realize  that 
as  the  needs  of  our  students,  faculty 
and  society  modify  or  enlarge,  we 
must  in  turn  adapt  to  them.  The 
importance  of  automation  in  the  li- 
brary's operations  is  just  beginning  to 
be  studied  in  a  serious  manner  so  that 
more  practical  and  financially  accept- 
able programs  may  be  designed  for 
improving  the  dissemination  of  knowl- 
edge. 

Recently,  the  Gordon  Library  has 
become  the  headquarters  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Technical  Referral  Center,  a 
project  supported  by  both  federal  and 
state  funds.  The  Center  is  to  provide 


Professor  Anderson 

the  Commonwealth's  business,  com- 
merce and  industry  with  useful  refer- 
rals to  appropriate  technological  infor- 
mation and  expertise. 

Technical  reports  which  have  be- 
come a  major  source  of  current  engi- 
neering and  technical  data  and  re- 
search have  often  been  ignored  by 
most  libraries.  They  are  usually 
shelved  in  a  back  room  without  being 
cataloged  and  classified  with  the  hope 
that  no  one  will  request  them.  Here 
again  we  are  attempting  to  find  ways 
to  make  such  material  more  readily 
available  for  use  by  the  undergraduate, 
graduate  student,  and  faculty. 

However  fine  the  collection,  a 
library's  reputation  has  always  been 
based  upon  the  quality  of  its  staff. 
Too  many  times  an  individual's  con- 
tact with  the  staff  is  through  the 
untrained  clerical  help  at  the  Circu- 
lation Desk.  Here  again,  I  feel  WPI  has 
done  well.  Our  staff  is  young,  eager 
and  intelligent  so  that  one  is  not 
discouraged  from  asking  for  assistance. 
Part  of  the  responsibilities  and  reward 
of  a  good  staff  is  to  feel  it  is  sharing  in 
the  education  of  its  patrons.  It  is  most 
important  from  a  morale  point  of  view 
that  the  well-trained  professional  li- 
brarian be  accorded  the  same  respect 
as  that  which  is  given  the  faculty. 

Formerly,  environment  was  never 
really  given  much  thought  in  library 
building.  A  table,  chair,  and  suitable 
lighting  were  considered  adequate  for 
the  "scholar".  This  idea,  too,  has  been 
drastically  changed,  for  libraries  gener- 
ally lead  the  academic  campus  in 
esthetic  appearance.  Air-conditioning, 
carpeting,  luminous  lighting,  windows 


THE  JOURNAL 


15 


Robert  J.  Goodness,  '70,  examines  a  display 
of  architecture  by  Pier  Luigi  Nervi. 


Students  studying  on  the  main  floor  of  the  Library. 


with  extended  views,  and  upholstered 
furniture  reflect  some  of  the  comforts 
of  the  modern  times.  Bright  colors, 
textures,  and  variations  of  construc- 
tion are  as  much  a  part  of  the  environ- 
ment as  its  circulation  desk  and  book 
shelves.  In  other  words,  today's  library 
is  doing  its  thing  in  pleasant  surround- 
ings with  a  cheerful,  competent  staff 
who  cares  about  its  patrons.  In  recent 
years  the  library  has  been  "trying  a 
little  harder". 

Now  one  might  ask,  what  are  the 
future  plans  of  the  Gordon  Library  at 
WPI?  I  foresee  much  more  cooperation 
and  inter-use  of  the  other  academic 
and  special  libraries  in  Worcester.  With 
the  Worcester  Consortium  established 
and  a  group  called  the  Worcester  Area 
Cooperating  Libraries  much  can  be 
done  to  break  down  the  barriers  of  the 
staid  private  college  and  its  aloof  view 
of  the  outside  world.  The  exchange  of 
students  among  the  various  campuses 
will  bring  about,  at  some  future  time, 
a  library  charging  card  that  will  be 
accepted  at  all  institutions  within  the 
city.  It  will  be  the  task  of  specific 
libraries  to  maintain  book  materials  of 
certain  disciplines.  Here  at  WPI  the 
areas  on  which  we  shall  concentrate 
will  certainly  be  those  of  engineering, 
certain  sciences,  and  the  history  of 
science  and  technology.  The  various 
academic  libraries  taken  as  a  whole 
will  form  a  sort  of  unofficial  Univer- 
sity Library  of  Worcester. 

Automation  is  a  realistic  goal  as 
well  as  a  practical  one  under  this 
cooperative  scheme.  Central  pur- 
chasing of  books  as  well  as  central 
processing  can  be  accomplished.  This 
could  lead  to  a  union-catalog  of  hold- 
ings that  is  a  complete  listing  of  book 
materials  for  the  entire  city.  You  may 
ask,  will  this  decrease  efficiency  of  the 
Gordon  Library's  operation  for  WPI 
students?  No,  I  believe  it  will  be 
enhanced,  for  the  student  body  will 
have  at  their  disposal  resources  of 
greater  depth  and  scope  than  ever 
before. 

Another  aspect  of  change  will  be 
the  increased  use  of  film  loops,  short 


16 


THE    JOURNAL 


films  explaining  a  specific  function  or 
period  in  our  history.  Here  again  the 
library  will  be  housing  numerous  loops 
and  readers  —  the  concept  of  the 
picture  book.  Such  loops,  if  carefully 
designed,  can  act  as  a  supplement  to 
classroom  teaching. 

With  the  great  explosion  of  the 
printed  word,  many  feel  that  a  library 
building  will  be  outgrown  before  it  has 
been  completed.  I  hope  that  the  Gor- 
don Library  will  be  more  than 
adequate  to  function  into  the  next 
century.  This  can  be  accomplished 
through  micro-storage  of  material. 
Hard  cover  books  and  bound  periodi- 
cals consume  space  and  cause  the  need 
for  physical  expansion.  There  is  no 
reason  that  older  and  seldom  used  but 
nonetheless  valuable  periodicals  can- 
not be  placed  on  some  sort  of  micro- 
form, reducing  the  storage  required  to 
the  amount  of  1  /1 00  to  1  /1 000  of  the 
existing  area.  With  improved  reading 
equipment  and  excellent  printers  for 
making  full-sized  copies,  the  student 
can  read  and  retain  the  material 
needed  for  research.  The  library  has 
received  from  NASA  100,000  tech- 
nical reports  on  microfiche,  requiring 


some  eight  file  cabinets  to  house  them. 
This  vast  mine  of  information  would 
require  an  area  100'  by  10'  of  shelving 
were  it  not  for  the  microfiche. 

Problem  solving  is  also  becoming 
another  function  that  has  been  trans- 
ferred to  the  library  due  to  its  long 
hours  of  service  —  averaging  fifteen 
hours  a  day.  The  library  contains  the 
fantastic  electronic  calculator  for  solv- 
ing mathematical  equations  and  engi- 
neering problems.  The  one  calculator 
which  is  in  the  library  at  present  is  no 
longer  sufficient,  for  the  demand  is  so 
widespread  that  we  are  being  forced  to 
consider  additional  ones. 

The  cultural  area  of  education  must 
be  augmented;  the  music  room  is 
serving  a  viable  purpose.  It  is  a  pleas- 
ure to  hear  a  student  comment  that  he 
enjoyed  and  appreciated  other  music 
than  rock  and  roll.  Yet  whether  it  be 
classical,  jazz,  the  blues  or  the  now 
accepted  rock  and  roll  as  personified 
by  the  Beatles,  it  is  most  important  to 
expose  students  to  all  types. 

The  displays,  both  in  the  vestibule 
cases  as  well  as  those  on  the  third  floor 
walls,  attempt  to  give  a  wide  variance 
of  the  visual  world.  From  the  photo- 


graphic exhibit  of  WPI's  George  E. 
Schmidt  to  the  lithographs  of  Stow 
Wegenroth  to  the  architectural  design 
of  Nervi  —  the  student  is  exposed  to 
an  exciting  artistic  world.  Japanese 
and  Chinese  porcelains  and  pottery  as 
compared  to  fine  printing  provide  still 
another  diverse  expression  of  our 
heritage. 

I  feel  the  Gordon  Library  continues 
to  progress  with  the  times  and  within 
it  is  serving  the  needs  of  its  students 
and  faculty.  However,  this  does  not 
mean  we  can  be  complacent.  The 
greatest  need  and  present  lack  of  the 
library  is  an  endowed  fund  in  which 
money  is  readily  available  —  where  the 
new  and  unusual  may  be  explored 
toward  resolving  a  better  education  for 
our  young  people.  With  such  a  fund, 
apart  from  day  to  day  operating  ex- 
penditures, the  library  could  be  even  a 
stronger  innovator  in  its  teaching  role. 

Thus,  the  modern  academic  library 
is  no  longer  just  a  depository  for  the 
written  word,  but  encompasses  what- 
ever tools  and  methods  are  required  to 
be  a  learning  center  to  stimulate  the 
mind  and  prepare  it  for  contributing 
to  mankind. 


ROTC  at  WPI-Very  Much  Alive 

by 
COL  EDWARD  J.  GEANEY,  JR. 

Professor  of  Military  Science 


This  fall,  ROTC  at  Worcester  Tech 
took  on  a  new  look.  For  the  first  time 
in  its  eighteen-year  history,  the  pro- 
gram became  entirely  voluntary.  Al- 
though this  caused  some  drop  in  enroll- 
ment, the  size  of  the  WPI  Cadet  Corps 
remains  quite  respectable.  Along  with 
this,  a  few  bold  innovations  in  our 
course  curriculum  and  in  our  approach 
to  practical  leadership  development 
are  helping  to  put  new  vitality  into  the 
program.  All  things  considered,  ROTC 
is  very  much  alive  on  today's  WPI 
campus,  and  the  outlook  for  the 
future  is  optimistic. 


Just  what  was  the  impact  of  the 
change  to  voluntary  ROTC  —  in  num- 
bers? —  in  quality?  Our  major  concern, 
of  course,  was  the  incoming  freshman 
class  which,  as  expected,  was  well  over 
600  students.  During  the  summer  we 
had  written  to  all  these  prospective 
cadets,  explaining  the  purpose  of  the 
Reserve  Officers  Training  Corps  and 
how  the  program  could  help  to  pre- 
pare them  to  fulfill  their  future 
military  obligation  as  commissioned 
officers.  We  knew,  however,  that  the 
real  payoff  would  be  on  the  strength 
of  our  appeal  to  these  young  men  in 


our  personal  contact  with  them  at  the 
start  of  the  school  year.  This  oppor- 
tunity came  in  September  when  all  the 
incoming  male  freshmen  attended  a 
mandatory  30-minute  orientation  on 
ROTC.  This  wasn't  much  time,  we 
realized,  but  we  were  determined  to 
make  the  best  use  of  it.  During  this 
period  we  briefly  exposed  the  new 
students  to  all  the  members  of  the 
military  staff  (six  officers,  five  NCO's, 
and  three  civilians).  We  told  them 
about  the  ROTC  program  in  general 
and  how  it  could  benefit  them.  We 
discussed  Selective  Service,  how  they 


THE  JOURNAL 


17 


Miss  Nancy  E.  Woods,  '73  of  Gardner,  Mass.  is  crowned  queen  of  the  Military  Ball. 


would  be  affected  by  it,  and  the 
options  that  were  open  to  them  to 
fulfill  their  military  obligations;  and 
we  covered  the  highlights  of  the  four- 
year  ROTC  program  that  they  could 
expect  at  WPI.  After  this  30-minute 
required  orientation,  the  new  fresh- 
men then  had  the  option  of  attending 
all  or  part  of  three  additional  orienta- 
tion sessions  before  having  to  make  up 
their  minds  whether  to  enroll.  As  it 
turned  out,  ROTC  gained  130  of  the 
616  men  presently  in  the  freshman 
class.  We  had  hoped  to  enroll  about 
200  of  these  men,  but  we  feel  that  130 
is  a  respectable  number  and  one  that 
we  can  live  with.  With  50  sophomore 
cadets,  49  juniors,  and  56  seniors  in 
the  program,  this  is  a  sizable  decrease 
from  last  year's  total  enrollment  of 
nearly  550.  However,  this  is  compen- 
sated by  the  fact  that  we  now  have 
cadets  who  are  in  ROTC  because  they 
want  to  be  part  of  the  program.  By 
and  large,  we  find  that  these  men  are 
better  motivated,  more  enthusiastic, 
and  a  lot  more  responsive. 


We  on  the  military  staff  at  WPI  are 
alert  and  sensitive  to  the  tremendous 
challenge  that  faces  us  today.  We 
welcome  this  challenge,  and  I  believe 
that  we  are  facing  it  head  on.  After  a 
long  period  of  introspection  from 
which  we  concluded  that  some  of  the 
criticisms  being  leveled  at  ROTC  must 
be  accepted  as  valid,  we  determined  to 
try  some  innovations  this  year  aimed 
at  putting  more  vitality  into  the  pro- 
gram, more  intellectual  content  and 
stimulation  in  the  courses,  and  more 
variety  and  interest  in  Leadership  Lab- 
oratory. 

What  are  some  of  the  innovations 
we  came  up  with?  For  one  thing,  we 
have  revised  the  freshman  year  curricu- 
lum by  relegating  military  skill  sub- 
jects such  as  Weapons  Proficiency, 
Map  Reading,  and  First  Aid,  to 
Leadership  Laboratory  time,  intro- 
ducing subjects  that  have  more 
thought  content  and  which  lend  them- 
selves to  inquiry  and  discussion  by  the 
students.  Realizing  that  the  average 
freshman    has   a   very    limited    under- 


'SOME  OF 

THE  INNOVATIONS" 


standing  of  the  Army  and  the  role  of 
an  officer,  we  are  endeavoring  to  build 
for  him  some  frame  of  reference  by 
providing  him  a  broad  overall  picture 
of  the  Army,  the  job  it  must  perform, 
how  it  is  organized  and  deployed 
around  the  world,  and  how  it  manages 
its  resources.  For  example,  we  are 
conducting  a  short  course  known  as 
Introduction  to  the  Management  of 
Military  Resources  which  is  oriented 
toward  giving  the  cadet  an  appreci- 
ation of  the  magnitude  of  the  re- 
sources for  which  the  Army  is 
responsible  and  some  understanding  of 
just  what  goes  into  the  management  of 
men,  materials,  and  money.  In  another 
course,  Leadership  Fundamentals,  we 
examine  the  role  of  the  officer,  what 
he  is,  what  is  expected  of  him,  what  an 
officer  does,  and  how  he  relates  to  the 
non-commissioned  officers  and  the 
men  who  serve  under  him.  I  don't 
mean  to  say  that  subjects  like  Weapons 
Proficiency  and  Map  Reading  are 
unimportant  and  should  be  ignored. 
Not  at  all.  But  the  fact  is  that  these  are 
subjects  which  involve  basic  soldierly 
skills.  They  involve  rote  memorization 
of  facts  and  statistical  data,  habit  type 
of  learning  and  very  little  conceptual 
understanding.  We  feel  that  the  cadets 
can  familiarize  themselves  with  these 
subjects  during  Leadership  Labora- 
tory. Then  in  the  more  military  atmos- 
phere of  ROTC  summer  camp,  they 
can  improve  on  their  knowledge  of 
and  ability  to  perform  these  skills. 

Let  me  say  a  word  here  about 
Leadership  Laboratory.  Some  of  you 
alumni  who  took  ROTC  at  WPI  will 
remember  this  as  "Drill".  The  term 
Leadership  Laboratory  was  adopted  to 
emphasize  that  drill  is  not  just  a 
matter   of   marching   for  the  sake  of 


18 


THE    JOURNAL 


marching  but  is  an  opportunity  for 
practical  leadership  development  of 
the  cadets.  Leadership  Lab  is  presently 
conducted  one  day  a  week  for  an 
80-minute  period.  For  the  freshmen 
and  sophomore  cadets,  this  involves 
about  12  attendances  in  the  fall  semes- 
ter and  equal  time  in  the  spring, 
adding  up  to  a  little  over  one  30-hour 
semester's  work.  This  is  the  one  period 
in  the  week  when  all  the  cadets  can  be 
together  at  one  time  and  at  one  place 
and  when  the  cadet  battalion  (we  are 
too  small  to  be  a  brigade  any  longer) 
can  function  as  such.  A  certain 
amount  of  the  time  is  taken  up  with 
marching  per  se,  and  this  certainly  has 
its  place.  The  cadet  officers  and  non- 
commissioned officers  get  the  oppor- 
tunity to  perform  in  their  respective 
roles.  And  the  men  in  the  ranks  gain 
some  feeling  of  pride  and  esprit  that 
comes  from  teamwork,  proficiency, 
and  well-disciplined  response  to  drill 
commands.  However,  realizing  that 
this  type  of  activity  can  become  mo- 
notonous and  boring  when  done  to 
excess,  we  are  endeavoring  to  limit  the 
amount  of  time  devoted  to  pure 
marching  and  ceremonies  in  favor  of 
more  varied  activity  that  affords  the 
maximum  number  of  cadets  an  oppor- 


tunity to  exercise  leadership  in  some 
form  or  other.  Thus,  by  using  part  of 
Leadership  Lab  time  to  familiarize  the 
freshmen  with  military  skill  subjects, 
we  are  varying  the  drill  program  for 
these  men,  at  the  same  time  giving 
more  upperclassmen  an  opportunity  to 
exercise  leadership  as  instructors  and 
assistant  instructors. 

We  took  another  step  this  year  in 
the  direction  of  adding  intellectual 
content  to  our  curriculum  and  stimu- 
lating more  student  interest.  This  was 
the  introduction  of  a  course  in  General 
Psychology  for  the  juniors.  Here  it 
goes  without  saying  that  an  under- 
standing of  the  mechanics  of  human 
behavior  will  help  to  make  our  WPI 
students  not  only  better  military 
leaders  but  better  leaders  in  whatever 
profession  or  field  they  might  take  up. 
This  particular  course  promoted  a  lot 
of  discussion  and  interplay  between 
instructor  and  cadet,  and  it  was  gener- 
ally well-received. 

For  the  seniors  we  have  expanded 
our  course  in  Leadership  and  Manage- 
ment and  made  it  more  sophisticated. 
This  course  treats  leadership  as  a  phe- 
nomenon of  human  behavior  and 
draws  on  some  prior  knowledge  of 
psychology.    We    go    into    leadership 


Worcester  Tech  ROTC  dining-in  at 
Fort  Devens,  Mass.  in  April,  1969. 


theory  and  offer  the  cadet  a  philoso- 
phy of  leadership.  We  take  up  the 
functions  of  management  and  cause 
the  cadets  to  teach  themselves  by 
actually  planning,  organizing,  coordi- 
nating, and  directing  all  aspects  of  an 
activity  that  will  take  place  a  few 
months  hence.  In  another  sub-course, 
we  cover  the  human  relations  or  group 
dynamics  aspects  of  leadership  by  dis- 
cussing senior-subordinate  relation- 
ships, counseling,  awards  and  punish- 
ments, etc.  This  course  lends  itself  to 
maximum  participation  by  the  student 
through  role  plays,  problem  solving 
exercises,  case  studies,  and  seminar 
discussions.  We  are  also  endeavoring  to 
enrich  the  course  with  guest  lecturers. 
For  example,  we  recently  had  Dr. 
Richard  Juralewicz  from  the  Manage- 
ment Engineering  Department  of  WPI, 
who  teaches  courses  in  Social  Psy- 
chology and  Human  Relations  in 
Industry.  He  discussed  with  our  cadets 
some  theories  of  leadership  and  vari- 
ous leadership  styles  that  can  be  used. 
For  February  we  have  booked  Mr. 
John  J.  McCarthy,  a  well-known 
management  consultant  to  General 
Electric  Company  (he  lectures  at  West 
Point  as  well),  who  will  talk  to  both 
the  juniors  and  seniors  on  "Executive 
Leadership". 

Just  how  well  we  are  doing  in  all 
this  remains  to  be  seen.  While  we  are 
very  enthusiastic  about  today's  ROTC 
program  at  WPI,  we  are  not  static.  In 
our  experimentations  for  new  and 
better  ways,  I  do  believe  we  are 
making  a  little  progress.  Most  impor- 
tantly, we  continue  to  be  our  own 
worst  critics. 

To  sum  it  all  up,  we  in  the  Military 
Department  feel  that  we  are  in  part- 
nership with  the  school  and  that  we 
are  complementing  what  the  university 
does  by  contributing  in  some  way  to 
the  total  development  of  the  "whole- 
man"  here  at  WPI. 

We  might  be  smaller  in  size  than  we 
were  in  the  past,  but  we  are  still  going 
strong.  Yes,  indeed,  ROTC  is  still  very 
much  alive  on  the  WPI  campus. 


THE  JOURNAL 


19 


A  New  Techniquest  In  1970 

by 
DR.  RAYMOND   R.  HAGGLUND,  '56 

Associate  Professor,  Mechanical  Engineering 

"Did  you  have  firm  ideas  about  a  career  choice  when  you  were  a  high  school  student?" 


"What  is  the  purpose  of  Techniquest?" 

Techniquest  is  a  one-week  summer  program  for  high 
school  juniors  who  want  to  investigate  engineering  as  a 
possible  career  choice. 

The  summer  of  1970  marks  the  thirty-second  program 
which  is  designed  to  expose  the  students  to  the  general  field 
of  engineering  and  to  college  life.  A  change  is  being  made  in 
the  program  this  year  to  provide  the  students  with  a  more 
realistic  and  meaningful  engineering  experience.  This  will  be 
accomplished  by  giving  a  significant  engineering  problem  to 
teams  of  approximately  20  students.  Each  engineering  team 
will  be  directed  by  a  professor  who  will  play  the  role  of 
a  chief  engineer  or  manager.  The  team  will  be  expected  to 
arrive  at  a  reasonable  solution  at  the  end  of  the  one-week 
program. 

This  article  will  answer  many  questions  about  the 
program.  After  reading  the  article,  you  may  find  that  you 
agree  with  the  new  idea.  If  so,  you  can  be  instrumental  in 
helping  high  school  students  investigate  engineering  as  a 
career  by  encouraging  them  to  attend  the  Techniquest 
program.  It  is  also  possible  for  you,  the  alumni,  to  actively 
participate  by  providing  engineering  projects  and/or  case 
studies. 

"What  exposure  to  college  life  and  engineering  does  the 
program  give  to  the  student?" 

The  program  can  be  divided  into  six  major  areas,  namely: 

1.  Engineering  Problem  Experience 

2.  Aptitude  Testing 

3.  College  Lectures 

4.  Evening  Seminars 

5.  Dormitory  Life 

6.  Industrial  Tours 

The  "new"  and  "old"  Techniquests  have  the  same  major 
areas.  The  major  difference  in  the  programs,  however,  is  in 
the  Engineering  Problem  Experience,  and  a  more  detailed 
explanation  will  be  provided  for  this  area. 


1.  Engineering  Problem  Experience 

In  the  "old"  Techniquest,  groups  of  approximately  ten 
students  would  visit  all  engineering  and  science  departments 
and  would  participate  in  a  45-minute  work  experience.  This 
experience  generally  consisted  of  a  lecture,  an  experiment, 
a  discussion  of  results,  and  a  quiz  with  a  recorded  grade. 
This  meant  that  the  students  were  rushed  through  many 
unrelated  experiences.  Of  course,  the  students  saw  many 
interesting  phenomena,  but  they  did  not  actively  partici- 
pate in  defining  the  problem  or  planning  the  solution 
and/or  the  experiment.  It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  students 
did  not  become  exposed  to  engineering  by  today's  stand- 
ards. In  addition,  the  recorded  grades  for  each  work 
experience  were  accumulated  and  averaged  and  were 
supposed  to  indicate  the  students'  ability  to  do  engineering 
work. 

The  "new"  Techniquest  is  different  because  the  students 
play  an  active  role  as  part  of  a  working  engineering  team.  A 
problem  will  be  assigned  to  a  team  of  20  students  by  the 
professor-manager.  The  professor  will  introduce  the  stu- 
dents to  a  logical  design  thought  process  which  is  used  in 
engineering  to  solve  problems  from  a  systems  point  of  view. 

The  logical  thought  process  incorporates  the  entire 
design  cycle  from  problem  definition  to  solution.  It  will  be 
up  to  the  students  to  define  the  problem  in  simple, 
understandable  terms;  to  recognize  the  need  for  specialized 
information;  to  make  assumptions;  to  create  ideas  and  plans 
for  solving  the  problem;  and  to  choose  one  plan  which  will 
lead  to  a  reasonable  answer  at  the  end  of  one  week. 

Hopefully,  the  students  will  experience  the  joys  and 
frustrations  that  an  engineer  learns  to  live  with  when 
solving  problems  employing  a  similar  design  cycle.  This 
experience  should  give  the  student  more  food  for  thought 
when  considering  engineering  as  a  profession. 

This  project  learning  approach  represents  a  new  way  of 
teaching  for  many  faculty  and  is  undoubtedly  a  new 
experience   for   the   students.   Some  of   the  students  will 


20 


THE    JOURNAL 


experience  the  difficulties  of  managing  a  section,  and  all  of 
the  students  will  experience  the  sociological  problems  often 
encountered  in  group  endeavors. 

The  professor-manager  will  play  an  important  role.  He 
will  have  to  direct  the  students,  but  not  lecture  to  them. 
Each  group  of  20  students  will  be  broken  down  into  smaller 
groups  of  three  members,  and  one  student  will  be  ap- 
pointed section  head.  The  section  head  will  have  the 
responsibility  of  directing  the  total  section  effort.  It  will  be 
necessary  for  the  professor-manager  to  monitor  each 
section  and  to  keep  all  of  his  sections  related  and  working 
toward  their  common  goal. 

Each  of  the  professor-managers  will  assign  a  different 
project.  Idealistically,  the  projects  should  be  interdiscipli- 
nary in  nature  so  that  the  engineering  teams  will  be  exposed 
to  a  variety  of  areas  in  engineering,  science,  and  the 
humanities.  In  actual  practice,  however,  it  is  difficult  to 
cover  all  of  these  fields.  It  is  felt  that  this  is  not  important; 
rather,  it  is  more  important  for  the  students  to  be 
introduced  to  the  engineering  way  of  thinking  common  to 
all  engineering  departments. 

Throughout  this  plan,  engineering  has  been  emphasized 
over  science.  It  is  meant  to  be  that  way.  It  is  felt  that  the 
students  have  a  fairly  clear  understanding  of  science  and 
what  a  scientist  does  from  their  high  school  courses,  but 
that  they  have  a  very  vague  understanding  of  engineering 
and  what  an  engineer  does.  Hence,  the  emphasis  is  on 
engineering. 

2.  Aptitude  Testing 

At  the  end  of  the  week,  the  students  should  have  some 
idea  of  their  interests  and  their  ability  in  engineering.  In 
addition,  aptitude  testing  will  also  be  provided  by  educa- 
tional testing  personnel  from  Clark  University  to  provide 
another  measure  of  ability  and  aptitude.  Also,  the  profes- 
sor-managers will  provide  qualitative  information  relative  to 
the  students'  interests  and  engineering  ability.  At  the  end  of 
the  week,  all  three  parties  —  the  student,  the  educational 
tester,  and  the  professor-manager  —  will  make  a  qualitative 
judgment  for  the  student  relative  to  engineering  as  his 
career  choice.  This  will  be  done  for  each  student. 

3.  College  Lectures 

Obviously,  the  students  will  not  have  the  background 
knowledge  to  solve  the  engineering  problem.  They  should, 
however,  recognize  the  need  for  specialized  information. 
Furthermore,  they  can  define  their  specific  needs.  Some 
information  will  be  provided  by  showing  the  students  how 
to  use  the  library  effectively.  In  addition,  lectures  will  be 
given  by  a  staff  of  professor-consultants  in  such  fields  as 
physics  and  chemistry.  In  this  way,  the  student  will 
experience  the  total  learning  environment. 

4.  Evening  Seminars 

The  evening  hours  will  be  more  relaxed.  Each  evening 
will  be  devoted  to  a  special  topic,  such  as  digital  computers, 


their  application  to  engineering,  and  a  limited  amount  of 
programming;  analog  computers;  the  role  of  the  humanities 
in  engineering;  panel  discussions  on  the  various  employ- 
ment opportunities  in  engineering,  such  as  research,  design, 
sales,  etc.,  and  how  to  select  a  college  and  a  particular  field 
of  engineering.  These  are  only  a  few  examples  of  possible 
topics  for  discussion. 

5.  Dormitory  Life 

For  most  students,  this  will  be  their  first  experience 
living  in  a  dormitory  environment.  In  any  case,  they  will 
sample  the  present  college  dormitory  life. 

6.  Industrial  Tours 

At  the  end  of  the  week,  the  students  will  tour  a  local 
industry.  This  will  give  them  a  chance  to  see  an  industrial 
environment  and  to  see  how  an  engineer  applies  his 
education.  It  will  also  be  an  opportunity  to  view  manufac- 
turing processes  which  are  a  direct  product  of  engineering. 

"Aren't  we  expecting  too  much  from  high  school 
students?" 

The  "new"  Techniquest  is  designed  after  the  WPI 
freshman  course,  ES-102  (Introduction  to  Engineering).  My 
personal  experience  with  the  course  shows  that  the  fresh- 
men are  capable  of  arriving  at  solutions  to  problems.  The 
solutions  are  not  optimum,  but  they  are  acceptable.  It  is 
more  important  for  the  student  to  learn  the  engineering 
way  of  thinking  than  to  obtain  the  "best"  solution.  Hence, 
learning  to  think,  gathering  information,  and  making 
decisions  are  considered  most  important.  Surprisingly,  the 
freshmen  can  do  it  very  well. 

"Can  you  give  an  example  of  a  typical  project?" 

The  following  project  is  proposed  for  one  of  the 
projects.  It  was  used  in  ES-102  in  the  fall  term  of  1969  and 
could  be  scheduled  for  Techniquest. 

Problem:  To  determine  the  effectiveness  of  automobile 
radiator  additives,  such  as  Kwick  Kool  and  Prestone,  in 
preventing  engine  overheating. 

Explanation:  The  students  are  not  given  any  of  this 
information.  It  is  presented  here  only  to  show  the  depth  of 
involvement  of  a  typical  project. 

The  project  is  experimental  in  nature  and  requires 
detailed  thinking  and  understanding.  It  uses  concepts  and 
theories  from  thermodynamics  such  as  temperature,  heat, 
boiling  point,  specific  heat  and  energy.  In  addition,  the 
project  shows  the  difference  between  scientific  experiments 
designed  to  get  a  quantity  like  specific  heat  as  compared  to 
an  engineering  test  using  an  automobile  engine  to  measure 
the  cooling  effectiveness  of  the  additives.  The  project  also 
shows  the  difficulty  in  obtaining  good  experimental  data. 
Support  faculty  from  physics,  chemistry,  and  mechanical 
engineering  are  required.  The  project  is  loaded  with  joy  and 
frustration. 


THE  JOURNAL 


21 


Tentative  Schedule  for  Techniquest 


The  following  schedule  is  an  example  only  and  is 
tentative.  Sports  events  and  socials  are  not  shown  but 
will  be  included. 


Sunday 
Monday 


Evening: 
Tuesday 


Students  arrive.  Orientation.  Aptitude  test- 
ing begins. 

Student  groups  of  20  are  formed  and  sub- 
divided into  sections  of  three.  Professor 
presents  design  cycle  and  problem.  Stu- 
dents define  problem  and  are  introduced 
to  the  library.  Thermodynamics  needed  are 
defined. 
Introduction  to  digital  computers. 


Lecture  by  physics  professor  covering  con- 
cepts of  temperature,  heat,  specific  heat, 
energy,  etc.  Students  apply  knowledge  to 
problem.  Professor  guides  students  to 
think  in  terms  of  experiments.  Students  ob- 
serve experiments  to  determine  specific 
heat,  boiling  point,  and  temperature  meas- 
urement in  an  automobile  engine. 
Evening:  Introduction  to  analog  and  hybrid  com- 
puters. 

Wednesday  Lecture  by  chemistry  professor  on  deter- 
mining ingredients  of  additives  and  im- 


portance to  problem.  Student  sections  of 
three  perform  experiments  to  measure 
boiling  point,  specific  heat,  and  test  engine 
in  round-robin  style. 
Evening:  Panel  discussion  on  role  of  the  humanities 
and  social  sciences  in  engineering  educa- 
tion. 

Thursday  Student  sections  plot  data;  draw  conclu- 
sions; make  decisions;  and  write  a  brief 
report.  The  project  is  finished  Thursday 
noon.  Aptitude  testing  continues. 

Evening:  Panel  discussion  on  the  fields  of  engineer- 
ing, engineering  positions  in  industry,  and 
how  to  select  a  college. 

Friday  Industrial  Tours 

Saturday  Each  student  meets  with  educational 
testing  personnel  and  his  professor- 
manager  to  make  a  judgment  on  engineer- 
ing as  a  possible  career  choice  for  the 
student.  Students  leave  WPI. 

"Do  you,  the  alumni,  agree  with  the  program?" 

If  you  agree,  then  sell  the  program.  Inquiries  may  be 
made  to  Dean  William  F.  Trask  at  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Deadline  for  applications  is  April  1. 


We  are  a  group  of  alumni  and  friends  formed  to  assist  WPI  Athletics. 

Our  accomplishments  to  date  have  been: 

Tutorial  support  to  all  student  athletes  desiring  it.  •  Referral  of  student  athletes 
to  WPI.  •  Publication  of  a  very  well-received  brochure — "Sports  in  Perspec- 
tive"—  (copies  are  available).  •  Seasonal  mailings  of  athletic  Newsletters.  •  Social 
gatherings  at  the  various  athletic  events. 

Solid  growth  has  been  experienced — (membership  has  doubled  itself  each  year— over 

150  members  now). 

1st  year  -  1967-68     74  members  2nd  year  - 1968-69      150  members 

3rd  year -1969-70      Progress  ahead  of  last  year 

WOULD   YOU    LIKE  TO   JOIN? 


THE    POLY   CLUB 

Sign  me  up  as  a  member  of  THE  POLY  CLUB.    Dues  enclosed. 

$25.00  Sustaining  Member  (Includes  Season  Pass  to  all  WPI  home  games,  all  sports) 

S10.00  Participating  Member 

Name Class 

Address — 


(Bill  mo  lata'  as  indicated  above 


) 


22 


THE   JOURNAL 


Leo  S.  Jansson  Award 


February  1,  1970 

Dear  "Techman": 

Recently  Worcester  Tech  lost  one  of  its  most  well- 
known  and  well-liked  personalities,  Leo  Jansson.  Leo  died 
on  September  15,  1969,  after  having  spent  the  previous 
three  months  at  the  Fort  Devens  Army  Hospital. 

The  following  editorial  appeared  in  the  September  16th 
issue  of  the  Tech  News: 

"HIYA.  KID,  HOW'S  IT  GOING?" 

He  was  our  man,  sincere,  dedicated; 
he  cared  so  much  about  so  many 
athletes.  So  often  he  worked  twelve 
hours  and  more,  advising,  healing,  and 
caring  for  his  boys.  .  .  his  experienced 
hands  banishing  pain,  daring  it  to 
return.  Work?  No.  .  .  life. 

He  helped  with  your  problems,  but 
never  had  any  of  his  own.  His  time  was 
yours  —  his  friendship  forever.  His 
friends  were  his  life,  and  his  life  he 
loved. 

And  he  is.  .  .  a  departed  friend. 

To  honor  the  memory  of  Leo  Jansson,  we  are  imple- 
menting an  annual  award,  to  be  known  as  the  Leo  S. 
Jansson  Memorial  Award,  to  be  "awarded  to  the  sopho- 
more who  best  exemplifies  the  WPI  Athlete",  as  described 
by  the  plaque,  "The  WPI  Athlete",  found  in  the  varsity 
locker  room.  This  plaque  specifies  the  true  WPI  athlete  as 


exhibiting  high  personal  standards  of  physical,  moral,  and 
social  behavior;  as  being  a  gentleman  athlete;  as  possessing 
courage,  devotion,  and  a  desire  to  achieve  excellence.  The 
selection  of  the  recipient  will  be  made  by  the  coaching  staff 
of  WPI. 

A  permanent  plaque  will  be  placed  in  the  lobby  of 
Harrington  Auditorium  bearing  the  names  of  the  annual 
recipients.  Each  year  the  awardee  will  receive  a  scholarship 
amounting  to  the  interest  received  on  the  principal  in  the 
fund.  Presentation  of  the  award  will  be  made  at  the  Spring 
Honors  Convocation. 

In  order  to  establish  a  fund  for  this  award,  we  are  asking 
alumni  and  those  currently  enrolled  at  Worcester  Tech,  as 
well  as  faculty  and  administration,  to  make  donations  to 
the  Leo  S.  Jansson  Memorial  Award  Fund,  c/o  Fred  Broad, 
Development  Office,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Your  generous  support  will  assure  that  all  future 
members  of  the  Tech  community  are  aware  of  Leo's 
unselfish  dedication  to  the  men  who  made  his  life  worth- 
while. 

Sincerely, 

William  J.  Hakkinen,  '70 


OJv*lC 


James  G.  Hannoosh,  '70 


ALUMNI  FUND  PROGRESS  REPORT 


After  only  four  months  have  passed  in  this  year's 
Annual  Alumni  Fund  program,  a  total  of  $71,560.31  has 
been  contributed  by  loyal  alumni.  In  addition,  a  sum  of 
$6,306.25  has  been  contributed  by  corporations  who  have 
matching  gift  programs,  thus  making  the  total  of  the  two 
programs  $77,866.56  as  of  December  31,  1969.  Last  year 
on  the  same  date  the  total  was  $71,100.52.  This  year  only 
the  general  mail  solicitation  has  been  conducted  so  far  and 
the  personal  solicitation  will  not  be  conducted  until  about 
March  1,  1970.  Thus  a  comparison  of  results  by  years  is 
somewhat  misleading,  but  it  does  seem  to  indicate  a  trend 
which  should  produce  a  record  contribution  of  funds. 


The  Fund  Board  adopted  an  optimistic  goal  this  year  of 
having  at  least  50%  of  all  alumni  contribute  to  the  Fund. 
Last  year  only  34%  participated  during  the  entire  program. 
To  date  this  year  20%  have  contributed  to  the  Fund  as 
compared  to  only  15%  at  the  corresponding  time  a  year 
ago,  and  thus  it  appears  that  the  goal  of  50%  participation 
will  at  least  be  approached. 

"Many  thanks  to  all  of  the  loyal  alumni  who  have  so 
willingly  contributed  generously  this  year  and  in  past  years. 
WPI  needs  more  assistance  from  more  alumni.  I  am  sure 
that  more  than  50%  want  to  help  WPI."  So  states  Irving 
James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Alumni  Fund  Board  Chairman. 


THE  JOURNAL 


23 


LAST  YEAR'S  LEADERS 

TOP  THREE  DISTRICTS 

TOP  FIVE  CLASSES 

BY  PERCENTAGE  OF  PARTICIPATION 

BY  PERCENTAGE  OF  PARTICIPATION 

I.Pittsburgh           63% 

1.1919 79% 

2.  Rhode  Island            ....      57% 

2.  1915 73% 

3.  Cleveland            49% 

3.  1929 53% 

TOP  THREE  FUND  KEYMEN 

4.  1945 52% 

5.  1907 52% 

1.  Donald  H.  McNamara,  '55    Pittsburgh 

2.  Otto  A.  Wahlrab,  '54        Rhode  Island 

3.  David  A.  Pratt,  '56        .      .  Cleveland 

DISTRICT  SUMMARY 

' 

December  31,  1969 

Chapter  Rank  by 

*  in 

*  of  Gifts 

% 

Total 

A  verage 

A  verage 

Chapter 

%  Participation 

Chapter 

or  Pledges 

Participation 

Dollars 

Gift 

Gift  Rank 

Pittsburgh 

1 

91 

30 

33% 

$    1,180.00 

$39.30 

0) 

Northern  California 

2 

140 

.  40 

29% 

1,685.00 

42.10 

(6) 

Cleveland 

3 

98 

27 

28% 

912.00 

33.80 

(16) 

Rochester- Genesee 

104 

29 

28% 

991.13 

34.20 

(15) 

Southeastern 

5 

95 

26 

27% 

912.50 

35.10 

(13) 

Detroit 

6 

75 

19 

25% 

61 1 .00 

32.20 

(20) 

Northern  New  Jersey 

7 

441 

104 

24% 

6,022.95 

57.90 

(D 

Boston 

8 

801 

188 

23% 

6,205.00 

33.00 

(18) 

Rhode  Island 

262 

60 

23% 

1,714.00 

28.60 

(21) 

North  Shore 

10 

297 

66 

22% 

2,195.15 

33.30 

(17) 

Connecticut  Valley 

11 

350 

71 

20% 

2,438.00 

34.30 

(14) 

Hartford 

612 

120 

20% 

4,534.00 

37.80 

(10) 

New  Haven 

419 

83 

20% 

3,027.00 

36.50 

(12) 

Chicago 

14 

105 

20 

19% 

970.00 

48.50 

(3) 

Los  Angeles 

216 

42 

19% 

1,762.38 

42.00 

(7) 

Washington 

370 

71 

19% 

1,877.00 

26.40 

(24) 

Western  New  York 

75 

14 

19% 

397.00 

28.40 

(22) 

Worcester 

1,324 

257 

19% 

11,835.79 

46.10 

(4) 

Hudson-Mohawk 

19 

135 

24 

18% 

565.00 

23.50 

(25) 

New  York 

542 

95 

18% 

4,037.00 

42.50 

(5) 

Philadelphia 

353 

64 

18% 

2,095.00 

32.70 

(19) 

Central  New  York 

22 

107 

18 

17% 

660.00 

36.70 

(11) 

Pacific  Northwest 

23 

37 

6 

16% 

315.00 

52.60 

(2) 

Berkshire 

24 

68 

10 

15% 

280.00 

28.00 

(23) 

Wilmington 

25 

149 

18 

12% 

740.00 

41.10 

(8) 

Cincinnati 

26 

50 

4 

8% 

70.00 

17.50 

(26) 

Out  of  District 

— 

1,813 

275 

— 

11,990.41 

43.60 



Others  and  Honorary 
Totals 

— 

9 

20% 

1,538.00 



9.129 

1,790 

$71,560  31 

$40.00 

Matching  Gifts 
GRAND   TOTAL 

6,306.25 

$77,866.56 

24 


THE   JOURNAL 


Tax  and  Transfer  Problems 

in  the  Gift  of  Securities 


by 
FRED   L.  BROAD,  JR. 

WPI  Director  of  Development 


We  have  just  come  through  that 
season  of  the  year  when  Americans  go 
on  their  annual  philanthropic  spree. 
Those  last  few  weeks  of  the  year 
when,  as  December  31st  approaches, 
we  are  reminded  most  forcefully  that 
if  we  want  to  give  some  money  away 
Uncle  Sam  will  pick  up  part  of  the  tab. 
Which  is  another  way  of  saying:  When 
anyone  considers  his  taxes,  gifts  some- 
times help  the  giver,  too. 

It  has  often  been  said  that,  "Amer- 
icans like  to  give,"  and  this  is  certainly 
true  as  all  our  private  educational  and 
charitable  institutions  bear  witness. 
But  to  procrastinate  is  human  and  this 
is  why  as  the  year  end  approaches  we 
go  scurrying  around  in  our  safe  deposit 
boxes  to  find  some  stock  certificates 
that  can  be  used  for  this  purpose.  It 
seems  appropriate  therefore,  at  this 
time  when  all  this  is  fresh  in  our 
minds,  for  us  to  take  a  look  at  this 
whole  matter  of  supporting  your  Alma 
Mater  by  gifts  of  securities.  There  are 
many  things  about  this  that  one  ought 
to  know  and  that  he  seldom  has  time 
to  find  out  in  the  last  minute  rush  to 
beat  the  tax  deadline. 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  and 
the  Alumni  Association  welcome  gifts 
of  securities.  Use  of  this  method  is 
often  one  of  the  simplest  and  best 
ways  one  may  make  a  gift  to  the 
college.  The  college  or  the  Association 
may  either  add  these  securities  to  their 
investment  portfolios  or  sell  them  for 
their  current  market  value.  In  either 
case,  such  gifts  are  advantageous  to 
both  the  college  and  the  donor. 

As  this  is  being  written,  the  new 
tax  reform  legislation  is  still  pending  in 


Washington.  The  outcome  of  this  may 
have  an  effect  on  the  allowable  deduc- 
tion for  gifts  of  appreciated  securities, 
but,  in  general,  in  making  gifts  of 
securities,  one  should  always  use  those 
that  have  appreciated  in  value.  There 
are  two  reasons  for  this.  First,  the  full 
current  market  value  is  both  the  value 
of  the  gift  to  the  college,  and  to  the 
donor  in  determining  the  size  of  his 
gift  and  his  eligible  tax  deduction, 
even  though  his  original  cost  may  have 
been  substantially  less.  Second,  the 
donor  incurs  no  capital  gains  tax  lia- 
bility even  though  he  gets  a  tax  deduc- 
tion for  the  full  current  market  value 
of  the  gift.  (Unless  this  too,  is  changed 
by  the  new  legislation.) 

Securities  that  have  depreciated  in 
value  should  not  be  used  for  gifts.  The 
value  of  such  a  gift  for  tax  purposes  is 
still  its  current  market  value.  If  a 
donor  has  depreciated  securities  that 
he  wishes  to  dispose  of  in  connection 
with  a  gift,  he  should  sell  the  secu- 
rities, claim  his  tax  loss,  and  use  the 
cash  for  the  gift. 

Now  how  does  one  go  about  mak- 
ing a  gift  of  securities?  Depending  on 
the  particular  circumstances,  there  are 
several  things  to  consider. 
1.      If  you  have  a  certificate  for  the 
exact  number  of  shares  you  wish 
to  give:  Simply  endorse  this  over 
to  the  college  or  the  Association 
(see    information    following    on 
how  this  is  done)  and  deliver  the 
certificate    to    Worcester    Tech, 
either  in   person,  by  messenger, 
or  by  mail. 

Endorsement   may   be   handled 
in    several  ways: 
a.  You  may  complete  the  endorse- 
ment to  the  college  according  to 
the  instructions  below.  If  this  is 


done,    certified    mail    is   recom- 
mended. 

b.  You  may  leave  the  certificate 
blank  and  send  a  signed  stock 
power.  If  this  is  done,  they 
should  be  mailed  separately. 

c.  You  may  sign  the  certificate  in 
blank.  If  this  is  done,  registered 
mail  should  be  used. 

2.  If  you  wish  to  divide  the  number 
of  shares  on  the  certificate  you 
have:  It  will  be  necessary  for  you 
tp  have  this  done  through  a 
broker. 

a.  Inform  your  broker  of  the  num- 
ber of  shares  you  wish  to  use  for 
your  gift  and  the  number  you 
wish  to  retain.  Do  not  tell  the 
broker  how  to  dispose  of  the 
shares  in  the  gift.  Instruct  him  to 
contact  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute  or  the  Alumni  Associ- 
ation immediately  for  directions 
from  the  college  regarding  the 
disposition  of  the  securities  to 
be  contributed.  Notify  the  col- 
lege of  your  gift  and  of  the  name 
of  the  broker  who  is  handling 
the  transfer.  If  this  procedure  is 
not  followed,  there  will  be  an 
extended  delay  in  establishing 
the  effective  date  of  the  gift 
which  may  substantially  alter 
the  amount  of  your  tax  deduc- 
tion, and  may,  if  the  gift  is  made 
near  the  end  of  the  year,  result 
in  the  gift  not  being  eligible  for  a 
deduction  in  the  year  in  which 
you  intended.* 

b.  Do  not  tell  your  broker  to  sell 
securities  and  send  the  check  to 
Worcester  Tech:  If  you  do  so, 
you  will  be  liable  for  a  capital 
gains  tax  on  any  appreciation 
over  your  original  cost. 


THE  JOURNAL 


25 


3.  Proper  Endorsement:  Do  not 
personally  endorse,  or  have  a 
broker  transfer  securities  to 
"Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute" or  to  "The  WPI  Alumni 
Association."  The  investments 
of  both  the  college  and  the 
Association  are  managed  and 
held  in  Trust  by  the  Worcester 
County  National  Bank.  So  that 
the  bank  can  keep  the  Trust 
accounts  separate  from  the 
bank's  own  corporate  accounts, 
a  nominee  account  called  Morrill 
&  Co.  has  been  set  up.  Morrill  & 
Co.  is,  therefore,  an  agency 
name  for  the  college  and  the 
Association  funds  which  are  in- 
vested in  the  Trust.  All  transfers 
of  securities  should  be  to  "Mor- 
rill &  Co."  This  will  save  the 
college  considerable  time  and 
expense  and  will  in  no  way 
affect  the  eligibility  of  the  gift 
for  a  tax  deduction. 

4.  If  you  wish,  you  may  make  a 
gift  of  only  the  appreciated  val- 
ue of  the  securities  over  your 
original  cost  by  so  notifying  the 
college.  In  such  cases  the  trans- 
fers are  handled  in  the  same 
manner  as  above,  and  the  college 
will  return  to  the  donor  a  check 
in  the  amount  of  his  original 
cost.  The  value  of  such  a  gift  is 
then  the  difference  between  the 
current  market  value  and  the 
original  cost  to  the  donor. 

So  much  for  the  mechanics  of 
making  a  gift.  Now  if  you  have  de- 
cided to  make  a  gift  of  securities,  or  if 
during  the  past  year  you  have  made  a 
gift  of  securities,  the  next  question 
will  be  how  you  determine  your  tax 
deduction.  Remembering  again  that 
the  new  tax  legislation  may  alter  the 
amount  of  the  gift  that  is  eligible  for 
your  deduction,  there  are  several 
things  to  consider  in  establishing  the 
value  of  the  gift  itself. 

The  college  is  frequently  asked  by 
donors  to  inform  them  "how  much 
the  school  received  from  the  sale  of 
their    gift    of   securities  so   they   can 


figure  their  income  tax  deduction." 
The  following  information  is  given  as 
an  attempt  to  clarify  this  problem. 

1 .  The  determination  of  the 
amount  of  deduction  for  a  chari- 
table contribution  is  primarily 
the  responsibility  of  the  donor, 
but  the  recipient  may  help  him 
determine  the  deductible  a- 
mount. 

2.  WPI  or  the  Alumni  Association 
does  not  always  sell  securities  re- 
ceived as  gifts.  Very  often  these 
stocks  or  bonds  are  retained  in 
the  investment  portfolios. 

3.  The  value  of  a  gift  of  securities 
as  a  charitable  contribution  for 
tax  purposes  is  the  mean  be- 
tween the  highest  and  lowest 
quoted  selling  prices  (or  the  bid 
and  asked  prices  for  unlisted 
securities)  on  the  effective  date 
of  the  gift.  The  ultimate  disposi- 
tion of  gifts  of  securities  by  the 
donee  has  no  bearing  on  the 
donor's  eligible  deduction  for 
the  gift. 

4.  The  effective  date  of  the  gift  is 
determined  by  whichever  one  of 
the  following  conditions  applies: 

a.  If  the  certificate  is  mailed  to 
WPI  or  one  of  its  representatives 
(e.g.,  campaign  solicitor,  Trus- 
tee, officer,  etc.),  the  effective 
date  of  the  gift  is  the  postmark 
on  the  envelope  from  the  donor. 
This  envelope  will  be  returned  to 
the  donor. 

b.  If  the  certificate  is  delivered 
personally  or  by  messenger  to 
WPI  or  one  of  its  representatives 
(same  as  above),  the  effective 
date  of  the  gift  is  the  date  of 
receipt  by  WPI  or  its  represent- 
ative. 

c.  If  the  certificate  is  delivered  to 
a  broker  who  subsequently  be- 
comes an  agent  of  WPI,  the 
effective  date  of  the  gift  is  the 
date  the  broker  becomes  an 
agent  of  WPI.* 

d.  If  the  certificate  is  delivered  to 
a  broker  who  continues  to  act  as 
agent  for  the  donor,  for  transfer 


to  WPI,  the  effective  date  of  the 
gift   is   the  date  the  transfer  is 
completed  on  the  books  of  the 
company.  This  is  the  date  on  the 
face    of    the    certificate.    This 
method    will   cause   a   delay   of 
several  weeks  in  establishing  the 
effective    date   of  the  gift   and 
thus  is  not  recommended.  This 
date  must  then  be  obtained  from 
the  college.   If  the  gift  is  made 
near   the  end  of  the  year,  this 
may    then    cause   the    effective 
date  of  the  gift  to  go  into  the 
following  year  and  lose  its  eligi- 
bility for  a  tax  deduction  in  the 
year    in    which    the    donor    in- 
tended.* 
Therefore,  subject  to  the  provisions 
of  any  new  tax  legislation  that  may 
alter  the  amount  of  the  gift  that  may 
be    deducted,    a   donor   of   a   gift  of 
securities  may  determine  the  amount 
of  his  tax  deduction  by  first,  estab- 
lishing the  effective  date  of  his  gift; 
second,    consulting    a    listing    of    the 
prices  of  the  stock  for  that  day;  and 
third,  determining  the  mean  between 
the  high  and  low  prices  listed.  This  is 
the  procedure  followed  in  determining 
the  figure  listed  on  the  acknowledge- 
ment of  gifts  of  securities. 

Naturally,  there  will  always  be 
some  cases  that  do  not  seem  to  fit 
these  procedures  exactly.  Either  the 
Alumni  Office  or  the  WPI  Develop- 
ment Office  will  always  be  pleased  to 
assist  you  if  you  have  further  ques- 
tions. Please  do  not  hesitate  to  call  us. 
The  above  information  is  also  available 
in  a  small  folder  titled  Gifts  of  Securi- 
ties. We  will  be  happy  to  send  you  one 
upon  request. 


•When  gifts  are  made  through  a  broker, 
or  other  transfer  agent,  it  should  be  noted 
that  the  broker  cannot  become  an  agent  of 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  upon  the 
instructions  of  the  donor  alone.  The  donor 
cannot  deputize  his  broker  to  become  the 
agent  of  the  college.  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute  must  itself  designate  the  broker  to 
act  on  its  behalf.  This  should  be  done  in 
writing  and  before  the  donor  transfers  the 
securities  to  his  broker. 


26 


THE  JOURNAL 


YOUR  ALUMNI  OFFICE 


The  Alumni  Association  wasformed 
in  1873  by  the  first  three  classes  to 
serve  the  college  by  developing  loyalty 
among  the  alumni.  It  was  incorporated 
in  1891  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of 
Massachusetts.  The  total  membership 
to  date  is  9,338. 

The  governing  body  of  the  Associa- 
tion is  the  Alumni  Council,  which  is 
comprised  of  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee of  the  Association  and  repre- 
sentatives from  each  of  the  26  organ- 
ized chapters  around  the  country.  The 
Alumni  Office  is  located  on  the  second 
floor  of  Boynton  Hall,  and  this  is 
where  all  alumni  records  are  main- 
tained and  all  Alumni  Association 
activities  are  coordinated. 

The  Alumni  Office  is  composed 
of  three  divisions:  The  Annual  Alumni 
Fund,  WPI  JOURNAL  and  Records. 


THE  OFFICE  MANAGER 
The  Office  Manager  is  responsible 
for  overseeing  all  of  the  office  oper- 
ations. She  must  keep  operating  proce- 
dures current,  and  she  is  responsible 
for  the  office  being  operated  at 
optimum  efficiency.  As  the  college 
changes  and  alumni  needs  change,  the 
office  procedures  are  reviewed  and 
changed  accordingly.  A  yearly  calen- 
dar of  activities  and  operations  is 
drawn  up  and  followed  as  closely  as 
possible.  In  addition,  the  Office  Man- 
ager is  responsible  for  all  financial 
reports  and  accounting  and  assists  in 
budget  planning.  She  works  closely 
with  the  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer 
and  his  Assistant  in  the  yearly  oper- 
ations and  acts  as  secretary  in  confi- 
dential matters. 


Miss  Norma  F.  Larson 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary 

Office  Manager 


From  left  to  right,  Helen  Winter, 
Nance  Thompson, 
and  Stephanie  Beland 
transfer  alumni  records 
to  computer  forms. 


THE   JOURNAL 


27 


RECORD  KEEPING 

CHAPTER  ACTIVITIES 
ANNUAL  FUND 
THE  JOURNAL 
REUNIONS 

HOMECOMING 

TECHNI-FORUM 


Mrs.  Stephanie  A.  Be/and 
Fund  Secretary 


THE  FUND  SECRETARY 
The  Fund  Secretary  is  responsible 
for  maintaining  all  records  for  each 
Annual  Alumni  Fund.  This  includes 
recording  all  gifts  and  pledges,  sending 
pledge  reminders,  and  acknowledging 
the  receipt  of  gifts.  She  must  also 
provide  for  four  mail  solicitations  and 
the  personal  solicitation  segment  of 
the  Annual  Fund  which  functions 
from  September  to  June  30.  Several 
types  of  reports  are  made  up  semi- 
monthly carrying  statistics  of  giving 
within  the  chapters,  classes,  and  show- 
ing amounts  of  gifts  and  comparisons 
to  the  previous  year's  giving.  During 
the  personal  solicitation  phase  of  the 
fund  drive,  reports  are  sent  every  two 
weeks  to  the  fund  workers,  and  the 
workers  are  also  notified  of  alumni 
giving  of  the  alumni  solicited. 


THE  MAGAZINE  SECRETARY 
Communication  is  a  most  impor- 
tant phase  of  any  alumni  organization. 
The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  four 
times  a  year  and  is  sent  to  all  alumni, 
other  colleges  throughout  the  country, 
and  WPI  campus  personnel.  It  is  also 
available  to  students.  The  magazine 
carries  articles  which  are  intended  to 
keep  the  alumni  informed  about  cam- 
pus activities.  All  articles,  with  the 
exception  of  some  feature  articles,  are 
written  by  the  staff. 


cards  for  personal  news,  and  notes  and 
letters  from  alumni.  These  are  first 
processed  by  the  Records  Secretary 
for  any  address  or  business  changes 
and  then  given  to  the  Magazine  Secre- 
tary for  writing  of  classnotes. 

We  learn  of  deceased  alumni  not 
only  through  our  clipping  service,  but 
also  from  mail  returned  by  the  post 
office  or  communications  from  rela- 
tives and  friends  (frequently  alumni) 
of  the  deceased.  Short  obituaries  are 
written,  and  several  copies  of  the  issue 
containing  the  "In  Memory"  are  sent 
to  the  survivors. 


Miss  Nance  C.  Thompson 
Magazine  Secretary 

A  major  function  of  an  alumni 
magazine  is  to  carry  alumni  news.  The 
chief  sources  of  this  news  are  news- 
paper clippings  which  are  sent  to  us  by 
a  New  England  clipping  service,  Alum- 
ni Fund  pledge  cards  which  invite 
alumni  to  use  the  reverse  side  of  the 


Mrs.  Helen  J.  Winter 
Records  Secretary 

THE  RECORDS  SECRETARY 
The  office  receives  over  2,000  ad- 
dress changes  a  year.  Changes  may 
involve  a  complete  change  of  chapter 
affiliation  and  new  business,  while 
others  are  changes  within  the  chapter. 
Various  files  are  maintained  on  each 
alumnus:  by  class,  alphabetically,  the 
town  in  which  he  resides  and  works, 
and  also  by  the  company  where  he  is 
employed.  Chapter  secretaries  are  peri- 
odically notified  of  changes  con- 
cerning their  chapter  membership. 

In  addition  to  the  three  main  divi- 
sions, the  office  also  serves  many  other 
functions. 


28 


THE   JOURNAL 


YOUR   HELP 
IS   NEEDED! 

PLEASE   KEEP 

YOUR  ALUMNI 

ASSOCIATION 

INFORMED   OF 

YOUR  ACTIVITIES 


Well  over  150,000  pieces  of  mail 
are  sent  from  the  office  annually.  This 
includes  the  Fund  mailings,  announce- 
ments of  class  reunions  and  alumni 
chapter  meetings,  the  JOURNAL, 
council  announcements,  and  miscel- 
laneous class  letters.  In  addition,  the 
office  prepares  all  of  the  copy  for 
Fund  literature  and  Homecoming  and 
Reunion  brochures. 

In  1970  a  special  project  will  in- 
volve the  preparation  of  an  alumni 
register.  This  register,  which  is  up- 
dated, printed,  and  distributed  peri- 
odically, basically  includes  a  geograph- 
ical listing,  an  alphabetical  listing,  and 
a  class  listing  of  all  WPI  alumni.  The 
class  listing  includes  degree  depart- 
ments, and  business  and  residence  ad- 
dresses. This  operation  has  required 
the  addition  of  up  to  12  part-time 
people  in  the  past,  but  this  year  for 
the  first  time  it  will  be  prepared  from 
our  computer  records  system.  Each 
alumnus  will  receive  a  copy  of  the 
register. 

Techni-Forum,  the  program  spon- 
sored by  the  Alumni  Association 
whereby  High  School  guidance  person- 
nel are  invited  to  the  campus  for  one 
and  one-half  days,  primarily  to  see 
what  an  engineering  and  science  col- 


lege is  like  and  most  particularly  what 
WPI  is  like,  is  entirely  organized  and 
supported  by  the  Association.  This 
program  enables  the  guidance  person- 
nel to  come  in  direct  contact  with 
faculty  and  students  and  also  to  see 
the  WPI  campus  firsthand.  Over  the 
years  many  guidance  directors  have 
directed  topnotch  students  to  WPI  as  a 
result  of  this  program.  There  is  a  great 
amount  of  time  and  effort  involved  in 
making  this  program  the  success  it  is. 
The  office  must  help  select  the  guid- 
ance directors  to  be  invited  and  must 
utilize  alumni  to  make  personal  con- 
tact with  them.  All  arrangements  are 
made  here  from  planning  an  interest- 
ing and  informative  program  to  mak- 
ing travel  and  hotel  reservations.  A 
number  of  records  are  maintained  for 
this  program,  including  the  schools 
represented  and  guidance  directors  in 
attendance,  prospective  schools  and 
guidance  directors  for  future  pro- 
grams, and  the  geographic  distribution 
of  those  who  have  attended. 

In  the  fall,  the  Alumni  Association 
sponsors  the  Annual  Leadership  Con- 
ference. Alumni  volunteers  are  invited 
to  this  program  on  campus  for  discus- 
sions and  an  exchange  of  ideas  with 
the  faculty,  students,  administration, 
and  their  fellow  alumni.  They  reac- 
quaint  themselves  with  the  campus 
and  learn  what  is  expected  of  them  as 
alumni  leaders.  Both  Techni-Forum 
and  the  Leadership  Conference  include 
panel  sessions  with  faculty,  students, 
administration,  and  alumni. 

Another  major  event  of  the  year 
which  occurs  in  the  fall  is  Home- 
coming. Each  year  Homecoming  re- 
minders must  be  mailed  to  all  of  the 
alumni  and  the  activities  must  be 
planned  and  coordinated  for  Home- 
coming Saturday.  This  includes  regis- 
tration, the  popular  tailgate  picnic  and 
barbeque,  the  judging  of  the  fraternity 
displays,  and  a  social  hour  following 
the  football  game. 

Communication  is  maintained  reg- 
ularly with  classes  scheduled  for  re- 
union, aiding  them  as  much  as  they 
require.  Class  reunion  letters  are 
mailed      from     the     Alumni     Office 


throughout  the  year  and  the  general 
Reunion  held  on  the  Saturday  pre- 
ceding commencement  is  arranged  dur- 
ing the  spring.  At  each  Reunion 
luncheon  the  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award  for  professional  achievement 
and  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  award  for 
service  to  the  Institute  are  presented 
to  alumni. 

As  mentioned  earlier,  it  is  the 
responsibility  of  the  office  to  com- 
municate to  the  alumni  the  needs  of 
their  college,  and  to  communicate  to 
the  college  the  alumni  point  of  view. 
This  is  done  through  the  JOURNAL 
and  also  through  the  26  organized 
alumni  chapters.  The  chapters  are  the 
grass  roots  of  the  Association  and  are 
the  source  of  its  manpower.  The  chap- 
ters hold  from  one  to  four  meetings 
per  year.  Many  chapters  request  a 
specific  individual  as  a  speaker,  others 
will  ask  for  suggestions,  but  usually  at 
least  one  meeting  every  year  is  at- 
tended by  a  speaker  from  the  campus. 
This  year  Dr.  Hazzard  will  visit  most 
of  the  chapters.  Because  of  changing 
population  patterns,  the  chapters  are 
constantly  being  realigned  to  maintain 
the  best  possible  communications  and 
operations. 

In  addition  to  chapter  meetings,  it 
is  planned  to  send  a  periodic  news- 
letter to  all  alumni  chapter  officers 
keeping  them  abreast  with  the  Insti- 
tute and  of  what  their  Association  is 
doing. 

Accurate  record  keeping  is  essential 
and  must  be  kept  current.  There  are 
times  when  the  office  is  nearly  over- 
whelmed and  the  days  are  not  long 
enough.  In  addition  to  the  records 
mentioned  earlier,  there  must  be  listed 
all  chapter  officers,  Association  offi- 
cers, committee  members,  and  bio- 
graphical data  on  each  alumnus  for  the 
Taylor  and  Goddard  awards  and 
honorary  degrees.  The  records  kept 
provide  a  great  service  to  the  Institute 
as  well  as  alumni.  Hopefully,  con- 
verting to  the  computer  will  alleviate 
many  man  hours  spent  on  details  of 
record  keeping,  and  time  may  be  spent 
to  better  advantage  for  the  alumni  and 
the  Institute. 


THE  JOURNAL 


29 


21st  ANNUAL  TECHNI-FORUM 

ATTENDED  BY  22  SECONDARY 

SCHOOL  GUIDANCE  COUNSELORS 


The  Twenty-First  Annual  Tech- 
ni-Forum  was  held  on  campus  on 
November  6  and  7.  Attended  by  22 
secondary  school  guidance  counselors 
and  administrators,  this  ever-popular 
program  sponsored  by  the  Alumni 
Association  was  extremely  well  re- 
ceived by  everyone.  The  goal  for  Tech- 
ni-Forum  as  stated  by  President  Haz- 
zard  in  a  letter  to  those  attending  was 
"to  bring  together  secondary  school 
and  college  educators  for  the  discus- 
sion of  matters  concerning  both  the 
secondary  school  and  the  science  and 
engineering  college  and  to  afford  an 
opportunity.. .to  examine  our  facil- 
ities." Everyone  agreed  that  this  was 
amply  accomplished. 

Bradford  W.  Ordway,  '39,  Chair- 
man of  the  Techni-Forum  Committee, 
presided  at  the  opening  session  in  Olin 
Hall  and  welcomed  everyone  to  Tech- 
ni-Forum. He  then  introduced  Dean 
M.  Lawrence  Price,  '30,  Vice  President 
of  the  college  and  Dean  of  the  Fac- 
ulty. Noting  that  the  direction  and 
breadth  of  the  total  education  pro- 
gram at  Tech  has  changed  rapidly  in 
recent  years,  he  stated  that  new 
courses  and  degree  programs,  along 
with  the  Worcester  Consortium,  now 
allow  Tech  to  attract  a  larger  number 
of  students.  He  was  careful  to  point 
out,  however,  that  the  size  of  Tech  is 
not  expected  to  increase  beyond  2,000 
undergraduates. 

Following  Dean  Price  was  Dr.  Allan 
E.  Parker,  Professor  of  Physics  and 
Head  of  the  Department,  who  ex- 
plained the  high  school  preparation 
which    is  expected   of   each   entering 


freshman.  He  emphasized  a  firm  back- 
ground in  english  as  well  as  physics, 
chemistry,  and  math,  and  he  spoke 
briefly  about  the  Physics  Dept.  The 
distinction  between  a  scientist  and  an 
engineer  was  then  explained  by  Dr. 
Alvin  H.  Weiss,  Associate  Professor  of 
Chemical  Engineering.  He  pointed  out 
that  they  overlap  more  than  most 
people  realize  and  that  today  the 
humanistic  aspect  of  each  is  more 
important  than  ever. 

After  a  tour  of  Harrington  Audi- 
torium, the  George  C.  Gordon  Library, 
and  the  Worcester  Area  College  Com- 
putation Center,  Professors  Higgin- 
bottom,  '25,  Johnson,  and  Onorato 
explained  the  major  and  minor  pro- 
grams of  business,  economics,  human- 
ities and  technology,  and  the  courses 
associated  with  each. 

At  the  noon  luncheon  in  Morgan 
Hall,  Dr.  Hazzard  described  what  he 
calls  the  "technological  humanist,"  a 
person  who  can  not  only  cope  with 
the  problems  of  science  and  engi- 
neering, but  also  with  humanistic  or 
social  values.  He  spoke  of  our  Two 
Towers  plan  and  the  hope  and  desire 
that  we  will  be  employing  more  of  a 
project  orientation  to  our  program  of 
studies  in  hopes  of  better  educating 
our  students  so  they  may  better  en- 
counter today's  —  and  tomorrow's  — 
problems. 

After  lunch,  professors  Van 
Alstyne,  Richardson,  Schwieger,  and 
Zwiep  discussed  their  respective  de- 
partments and  programs.  It  was  noted 
that  there  is  much  interaction  between 
the    departments    of   math,   electrical 


engineering,  management  engineering, 
and  mechanical  engineering.  This  dis- 
cussion was  followed  by  a  talk  by 
William  F.  Elliott,  '66,  Assistant  Direc- 
tor of  Admissions,  on  the  newly-inau- 
gurated Admissions  Counselors  pro- 
gram, whereby  alumni  visit  students  in 
high  schools.  Edgar  F.  Heselbarth, 
Director  of  Financial  Aid,  spoke  on 
the  various  types  and  amounts  of 
money  available  to  students  as  aid,  and 
Kenneth  A.  Nourse,  Associate  Dean  of 
Student  Affairs  and  Director  of  Ad- 
missions, concluded  the  session  by 
speaking  about  WPI's  general  admis- 
sions policies. 

A  panel  of  undergraduates,  Miss 
Lesley  E.  Small,  '72,  Leonard  Poliz- 
zotto,  '70,  and  Paul  E.  Evans,  71, 
then  answered  questions  from  the 
guidance  personnel  in  what  was  pos- 
sibly the  most  popular  program  of  the 
day.  Subjects  of  particular  interest 
were  the  advisor  system,  the  ease  of 
transition  from  high  school  to  college, 
and  why  the  students  chose  to  attend 
WPI. 

The  evening  session  consisted  of 
talks  by  Dean  Martin  C.  Van  de  Visse, 
Dean  of  Student  Affairs,  Merl  M. 
Norcross,  Associate  Professor  of  Physi- 
cal Education  and  Athletics,  and 
Edward  J.  Geaney,  Colonel,  U.S.A., 
Professor  of  Military  Science  and  Head 
of  the  Department. 

Friday's  schedule  began  with  talks 
by  Carl  H.  Koontz,  Professor  of  Civil 
Engineering  and  Head  of  the  Depart- 
ment, and  Robert  C.  Plumb,  Professor 
of  Chemistry  and  Head  of  the  Depart- 
ment. This  was  followed  by  a  tour  of 


30 


THE    JOURNAL 


Goddard  Hall  and  Alden  Research 
Laboratories  and  a  concluding  lunch- 
eon. 

Those  who  attended,  whether  from 
near  or  far,  were  impressed  by  the 
quantity  and  quality  of  the  proarams 
and  facilities  which  WPI  has  to  offer. 
They  had  gained  a  clear  insight  into 
the  distinction  between  science  and 
engineering,  the  flexibility  of  our  pro- 
grams, and  the  value  of  the  Worcester 
Consortium.  But  probably  most  im- 
portant, they  were  impressed  by  the 
hospitable,  family  atmosphere  which  is 
so  much  a  part  of  an  education  at 
Tech. 

Those  secondary  school  personnel 
attending  were: 

Mr.  Melvin  Ginsberg 

Bristol  Central  High  School 

Bristol,  Connecticut 

Mr.  Edward  F.  O'Neill 
St.  Bernards  High  School 
New  London,  Connecticut 

Mr.  Lee  E.  Pyne 
Windham  High  School 
Willimantic,  Connecticut 

Mr.  Heaman  H.  Stevens 
Windham  High  School 
Willimantic,  Connecticut 


Mr.  Arthur  Pepin 
Chicopee  High  School 
Chicopee,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  George  DeFlorio 

Chicopee  Comprehensive  High 

School 

Chicopee  Falls,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  Howard  Groom 

Wachusett  Regional  High  School 

Holden,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  Henry  Miles 

Wachusett  Regional  High  School 

Holden,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  Kirby  R.  Thwing 
Longmeadow  High  School 
Longmeadow,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  Arthur  G.  Sticklor 
Natick  High  School 
Natick,  Massachusetts 

Mrs.  Jean  H.  Woodhead 
Algonquin  Regional  High  School 
Northboro,  Massachusetts 

Mr.  William  Ellithorpe 
Palmer  High  School 
Palmer,  Massachusetts 

Mrs.  Margaret  Ziegler 
Palmer  High  School 
Palmer,  Massachusetts 


Mr.  James  E.  Sabin 

Cherry  Hill  High  School  East 

Cherry  Hill,  New  Jersey 

Mr.  Scott  H.  Borchers 
Cherry  Hill  High  School  East 
Cherry  Hill,  New  Jersey 

Mr.  Walter  Knittel 

Raritan  Township  High  School 

Hazlet,  New  Jersey 

Mr.  Leonard  T.  Neil 
Midland  Park  High  School 
Midland  Park,  New  Jersey 

Mr.  Howard  I.  Barnes 
Maine-Endwell  High  School 
Endwell,  New  York 

Mr.  Brian  R.  Walsh 
Shaker  High  School 
Latham,  New  York 

Mr.  Henry  Payne 

New  Rochelle  High  School 

New  Rochelle,  New  York 

Mrs.  Nancy  J.  Lang 

Westhampton    Beach    High   School 

Westhampton  Beach,  L.I.,  New  York 

Mr.  Royce  B.  Radeline 
Yorktown  High  School 
Arlington,  Virginia 


'"•BWsfs- 


A  tour  of  the  Worcester  Area 
College  Computation  Center  was 
a  highlight  of  the  campus  tours. 
Pictured  here  with  Dr.  Norman  E.  Sondak 
(seated!,  head  of  the  computer  science 
program,  are:  left  to  right, 
Mrs.  Jean  Woodhead  (Northboro,  Mass.  I, 
Mr.  Howard  Groom  (Holden,  Mass.) 
and  Mr.  Henry  Miles  (Holden,  Mass.) 


THE   JOURNAL 


31 


A  Faculty  Viewpoint 

by 
ROGER   R.  BORDEN,  MS  '61 

Associate  Professor,  Mechanical  Engineering 


The  older  generation  often  asks: 
"What  is  wrong  with  today's  youth?" 
After  17  years  of  teaching  and  coun- 
seling, in  post-secondary  technical  edu- 
cation, I  feel  somewhat  competent  to 
answer.  Many,  if  not  most,  of  the 
young  men  and  women  in  high  school 
and  college  this  year  are  the  finest, 
most  intelligent,  most  knowledgeable, 
most  mature,  and  most  sensitive 
youngsters  this  country  has  ever  pro- 
duced. They  are  rightfully  concerned 
and  indignant  about  the  state  of  affairs 
in  this  nation  and  in  the  world  at  the 
present  time.  They  seem  to  have  X-ray 
insight  into  the  economic,  political, 
and  social  problems  that  we  now  face. 
They  are  fed  up  with  pretense,  hypoc- 
risy, false  premises,  and  expediency. 

The  world  that  we  oldsters  (anyone 
25  or  older)  were  born  into  has  gone. 
Accelerated  technological  growth  and 
the  population  explosion  have  created 
startling  contrasts  in  society.  Air  and 
water  pollution,  haphazard  waste  dis- 
posal, nuclear  testing,  the  decaying 
inner-city,  ill-planned  and  uncon- 
trolled residential  and  industrial  ex- 
pansion into  the  rural  suburbs,  the 
rapidly  increasing  number  of  motor 
vehicles,  the  growing  inadequacy  of 
our  highways  and  transportation 
systems,  economic  inflation  and  in- 
creasing foreign  competition,  demor- 
alizing warfare,  political  expediency 
and  graft,  individualism,  and  materi- 
alism are  examples  of  the  questions 
that  need  immediate  answers  if  our 
western  civilization  is  to  survive. 

In  the  past  twenty-five  years  we 
have  passed  through  the  nuclear  age 
into  the  space  age.  We  have  walked  on 
the  moon;  flown  by  Mars  and  Venus; 
created  new  electronic  marvels;  and 
conquered  many  human  diseases,  but 
we  have  made  very  little  progress  in 


social  science  and  the  humanities.  Col- 
leges and  secondary  schools  have  em- 
phasized science  and  technology  at  the 
expense  of  the  courses  which  em- 
phasize human  understanding  and 
values.  Government,  education,  re- 
ligion, and  the  other  non-technical 
aspects  of  our  society  have  fallen 
woefully  behind  in  the  race  for  supe- 
riority in  science  and  technology.  We 
are  rapidly  becoming  masters  of  outer 
space,  but  we  have  yet  to  really 
explore  man's  inner  space. 

A  large  number  of  teenagers  and 
young  adults  are  at  odds  with  their 
parents  and  other  representatives  of 
the  "establishment".  They  wear  un- 
usual clothes  and  eyeglasses  that  are 
out  of  the  style  of  the  conservative, 
contemporary  fashion.  The  boys  and 
young  men  favor  beards,  mustaches, 
and  long  hair.  This  group  does  not 
want  to  be  identified  with  the  hypo- 
critical older  generation  that  merely 
gives  political  lip  service  to  human 
values  and  ethics.  They  are  also  striv- 
ing for  identity  in  an  expanding,  im- 
personal world  where  human  beings 
are  fast  becoming  a  number  instead  of 
a  name. 

We  should  all  remember,  however, 
that  the  younger  generations  in  all  eras 
of  our  history  have  been  distinguished 
by  their  dress,  taste  in  music,  and 
method  of  dancing.  Have  you  for- 
gotten the  raccoon  coat,  the  "zoot"- 
suits,  the  "flappers",  jazz,  "boogie- 
woogie",  ragtime,  "speakeasies", 
bath-tub  booze,  etc.?  "Let  him  who  is 
without  sin  among  you  cast  the  first 
stone." 

A  generation  gap  most  definitely 
exists  —  particularly  in  the  area  of 
communication.  Most  parents  are  con- 
scientious enough  to  see  that  their 
children  are  fed  and  clothed,  but  often 


that  is  as  far  as  their  interest  extends. 
Teenagers  with  unanswered  questions, 
personal  problems,  and  a  fundamental 
need  to  talk  things  over  with  their 
elders  are  frequently  shut  out  by  their 
fathers  and  mothers  who  cannot  af- 
ford time,  for  their  children,  from 
their  busy  schedules.  And  then  there  is 
the  growing  problem  of  broken  homes 
where  there  is  a  working  mother  or 
where  the  children  are  brought  up  by 
relatives. 

Frustration  and  hopelessness  are  at 
the  root  of  vandalism,  juvenile  delin- 
quency, alcoholism,  the  drug  abuse 
problem,  and  protest  demonstrations. 
An  impersonal,  materialistic  society 
with  no  apparent  national  purpose 
creates  the  atmosphere  for  lawlessness 
and  despondency. 

The  time  has  come,  according  to 
our  youthful  leaders,  for  the  citizens 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to 
recognize  their  shortcomings  and  to 
realize  that  you  cannot  solve  the  prob- 
lems of  the  1970's  with  puritanical  or 
mid-Victorian  techniques  —  partic- 
ularly when  these  methods  only  apply 
to  the  other  person.  They  say  our 
nation  is  at  the  last  fork  in  the  road. 
Two  paths  are  open  to  us.  If  we 
continue  the  way  we  are  going,  we  will 
follow  all  previous  empires  into  deca- 
dence and  oblivion,  but  if  we  come  to 
grips  with  our  human  natures,  and 
realize  that  we  are  capable  of  the  kind 
of  human  behavior  that  Jesus  taught, 
we  still  have  a  chance  to  retain  truly 
democratic  world  leadership. 

The  youth  of  today  say,  in  con- 
clusion, that  if  we  are  to  have  a  future, 
then  all  of  our  people  and  their  organi- 
zations have  to  be  changed,  partic- 
ularly religion,  Government,  the 
church,  and  society  must  be  brought 
up-to-date  in  order  to  cope  with  the 
problems  of  the  space  age.  The  prin- 
cipal change,  they  maintain,  must  be  a 
change  in  the  human  heart.  "Love  Thy 
Neighbor",  the  Ten  Commandments, 
and  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  must  be 
rediscovered  and  put  to  practical  use. 

In  all  honesty  and  objectivity,  as 
you  observe  our  nation  and  the  world 
in    1970,  don't  you  agree  with  them? 


32 


THE   JOURNAL 


Undergraduate 
Viewpoint 

by 
DOMENIC  J.  FORCELLA,  JR.,  '70 

President,  WPI  Inter- Fraternity  Council 


The  fraternity  system  at  WPI  is 
changing  as  rapidly  as  the  school. 
During  the  last  five  years,  changes  on 
campus  have  produced,  or  at  least 
helped  to  produce,  many  changes  in 
the  fraternities. 

In  the  past,  the  WPI  student  was 
almost  entirely  dependent  on  the  fra- 
ternity system  to  provide  his  social 
life.  This  led  to  the  complete  involve- 
ment of  the  students  in  fraternity  life, 
and  campus  life  suffered.  Now  the 
campus  elects  a  social  chairman  and 
has  an  active  assembly  committee,  so 
the  fraternities  no  long'er  have  to 
supply  the  students  with  the  number 
of  activities  they  did  in  the  past.  The 
idea  of  joining  a  fraternity  because  it's 
the  only  way  to  have  any  social  life  is 
obsolete.  The  fraternities  continue  to 
supply  a  portion  of  the  social  life  on 
campus,  but  it  is  not  as  dominant  a 
factor  when  a  student  is  considering 
membership  as  it  used  to  be. 

The  type  of  man  joining  a  frater- 
nity these  days  is  also  different.  The 
old  stereotype  beer-drinking,  girl- 
chasing  fraternity  man  is  gone.  To- 
day's member  has  more  opportunities 
than  in  the  past  to  get  involved  in 
activities.  This  leads  to  a  new  conflict 


between  the  fraternity  and  the  school, 
and  it  results,  I  feel,  in  a  drop  in 
school  spirit. 

Whenever  a  fraternity  man  does  not 
show  up  for  a  school  function,  the 
fraternity  is  alleged  to  have  stifled 
school  spirit.  A  person's  likes  or  dis- 
likes are  not  taken  into  consideration, 
but  rather  the  whole  system  is  de- 
nounced. What  many  people  fail  to 
realize  is  that  fraternities  probably  do 
more  to  take  the  name  of  the  school 
to  the  public  than  any  other  school 
organization.  The  community  projects 
carried  on  by  the  individual  frater- 
nities and  by  the  Inter-Fraternity 
Council  as  a  whole  reach  a  large  and 
diversified  group  of  people.  Yet  these 
men  who  indulge  in  tutoring,  big 
brother  programs,  aid  to  the  under- 
privileged, city  beautification  work, 
hospital  work,  fund  canvassing,  and 
similar  projects  are  said  to  be  stifling 
WPI  school  spirit. 

What  the  school  community  fails  to 
realize  is  that  the  majority  of  campus 
leaders  are  the  dorm  counselors  and 
that  these  people  tend  to  be  a  little 
too  idealistic.  Most  do  not  have  a  real 
feel  for  the  campus  pulse,  and  they 
cannot  reach  the  fraternity  man.  Con- 
sequently,  they   do   the   next   easiest 


thing  and  berate  him.  This  sort  of 
misunderstanding  tends  to  influence  a 
person  to  direct  his  efforts  towards  his 
fraternity  where  he  feels  he  will  be 
appreciated.  In  the  future,  I  hope, 
with  the  "do  your  own  thing"  atti- 
tude, people  will  see  that  fraternities 
do  not  influence  a  person  to  such  a 
degree  as  to  keep  him  away  from 
campus  life,  but  rather  that  each 
individual  is  free  to  do  as  he  pleases. 

The  fraternity  is  still  an  integral 
part  of  college  life  today.  Its  assets 
have  been  brought  more  to  light  now 
that  its  social  aspect  is  not  a  chief 
selling  feature.  The  fact  is  that  a 
fraternity  is  a  cross-section  of  the 
campus,  made  up  of  all  types  of 
people  and  is  not  a  stereotyped  organi- 
zation. Responsibility  and  leadership, 
which  it  imparts  to  its  members,  are 
probably  its  strongest  assets. 

With  a  membership  of  people  look- 
ing for  more  than  social  life,  the 
quality  of  fraternities  is  sure  to  im- 
prove. Some  of  these  signs  have  al- 
ready been  seen.  When  community 
projects  are  completed,  people  don't 
remember  the  fraternities,  but  rather 
those  "nice  guys  from  WPI."  The 
school  now  runs  social  functions  on 
Saturday  nights  without  worry  of 
fraternity  competition. 

As  more  and  more  of  the  social 
program  is  assumed  by  the  school,  the 
fraternities  can  expand  their  activities 
and  more  readily  adapt  themselves  to 
the  changing  times  and  attitudes.  As 
the  largest  organizational  body  on 
campus,  the  fraternities  can  tackle 
large  projects  that  even  the  Student 
Government  may  not  wish  to  take  on. 
The  success  and  growth  of  the  campus 
will  be  determined  when  all  the  stu- 
dent organizations  realize  that  they  are 
all  working  towards  the  same  goal  — 
the  betterment  of  WPI. 


"HE   JOURNAL 


33 


CIVIL  ENGINEERING  -com.  from  page  9 

tunity  for  such  involvement  must  exist  for  the  student  in 
his  educational  program.  The  educational  institution  must 
be  committed  to  recognizing  the  need  for  and  providing 
opportunity  for  such  involvement  with  academic  credit. 

Whenever  there  is  involvement  of  an  educational  institu- 
tion with  the  outside  world,  the  key  to  success  is  people. 
The  right  people  in  the  institution  must  deal  with  the 
agency,  or  civic  organization,  or  professional  bureau  head. 
Although  one  does  not  have  to  agree  with  it,  he  simply  has 
to  get  along  with  the  local  power  structure,  and  the 
emphasis  must  be  on  the  demonstrated  ability  of  a 
university  person  to  be  able  to  work  with  people.  The  usual 
ivory-tower  professor  does  not  generally  qualify.  The  need 
is  for  people-oriented  engineers,  not  engineering-oriented 
people.  This  is  one  important  obstacle  to  involvement. 

Traditionally,  when  an  educational  institution  looks  at  a 
new  problem,  its  first  inclination  is  to  research  it.  This  is 
particularly  true  in  the  technical  areas.  It  is  a  needed 
inclination,  but  it  stands  as  an  obstacle  to  involvement  in 
the  sense  that  over-emphasis  on  the  research  effort  prevents 
involvement  in  the  problem  itself  —  a  potentially  much 
more  meaningful  undertaking.  The  research,  publication 
reward  system  must  be  critically  reviewed  in  this  regard. 
This  bears  directly  on  the  recruitment  of  faculty  and  staff. 
Commitment  must  be  made  (policy  changes)  to  the  end 
that  the  problem  solver  is  recruited  in  equal  status  with 
instruction  and  research. 

Unfortunately,  there  are  compelling  reasons  why  educa- 
tional institutions  are  prone  to  point  to  research  as  an 
important  vehicle  for  their  contribution  to  the  solution  of 
problems  associated  with  the  urban  crisis.  Foundation 
grants  and  government  assistance  have  traditionally  been 
pointed  in  that  direction.  But  for  educational  institutions 
simply  to  cite  such  projects,  most  of  which  may  have  little 
to  do  with  real  people  and  immediate  human  environmental 
problems  and  to  seek,  in  this  fashion,  to  convince  them- 
selves and  society  that  they  are  doing  their  share,  may  be 
viewed  quite  properly  in  most  cases,  particularly  in  science 
and  engineering,  as  begging  the  question.  The  real  question 
is  relevance  to  the  problem  today.  Continuation  of  the 
above  outlook  can  be  viewed  only  as  evidence  of  ignorance 
of  what  the  problems  are,  and  such  ignorance  provides  little 
hope  for  success  in  attacking  the  problems. 

Another  obstacle  is  often  encountered  in  the  classroom 
itself.  This  is  where  students  can  begin  to  learn  about  real 
problems,  to  develop  the  ideas  and  convictions  necessary  to 
become  urban  problem  solvers  or  simply  good  citizens. 
Somewhat  facetiously,  it  might  be  commented  that  course 
structure,  traditions,  and  curricula  content  teach  students 
more  about  the  problems  of  medieval  days  than  about 
contemporary  problems.  Perhaps  a  real  hard  look  needs  to 
be  taken  at  the  value  of  personal  cultural  growth  through 
certain  humanities  courses  vs.  that  broadening  outlook  that 


could  be  achieved  through  more  emphasis  on  contemporary 
social  problem-oriented  coursework. 

Two  fundamental  issues  are  inherent  in  all  this.  One  has 
to  do  with  instructional  policy  regarding  urban  problem 
solving  and  the  other  with  financial  support.  These  are 
inevitably  linked  to  one  another  and  must  be  the  subject  of 
intense  study. 

CIVIL  ENGINEERING  STUDY  PLAN  FOR  WPI 

For  almost  two  years,  the  faculty  of  civil  engineering  at 
WPI  has  been  involved  in  an  intensive  study  of  its 
curriculum  with  a  view  to  revision  in  keeping  with  the 
philosophy,  goals,  and  objectives  described  in  preceding 
sections  of  this  paper.  In  the  initial  stages  of  this  study,  the 
view  was  taken  that,  in  education  to  meet  properly  the 
challenges  posed  in  modern  engineering  problems,  civil 
engineering  practice  and,  consequently,  civil  engineering 
education  could,  for  an  individual,  take  a  variety  of 
directions  and  still  be  most  meaningful  insofar  as  the  end 
product  was  concerned.  Civil  engineering  is  what  civil 
engineers  should  be  doing  in  this  modern  age.  This  latitude 
implied  from  such  a  general  definition  of  civil  engineering 
must,  of  course,  be  restricted  from  the  point  of  view  that 
there  are  traditional  areas  that  are  generally  accepted  as  the 
province  of  the  civil  engineer.  Fortunately,  however,  each 
of  these  areas  is  sufficiently  broad  in  scope  to  permit 
distinct  variations  in  traditional  educational  approaches 
where  such  variations  are  justified  from  the  point  of  view  of 
their  potential  value  in  contemporary  problem  solving. 

First  consideration  was  given  to  specification  of  the 
minimum  required  civil  engineering  course  content  in  the 
undergraduate  curriculum  necessary  to  accomplish  first 
professional  degree  status  at  the  B.S.  level  in  four  years. 
This,  in  itself,  was  no  easy  undertaking  and  required 
considerable  study  and  soul  searching.  It  is  always  difficult 
to  abandon  traditional  course  offerings  for  a  variety  of 
reasons.  The  key  philosophy  here  was  that  the  curriculum 
should  not  be  such  as  to  provide  something  of  everything 
for  everybody.  It  is  always  easy  to  take  the  easy  route  and 
justify  a  course  from  the  point  of  view  that  at  some  time 
the  student  might  be  encountered  with  a  problem  situation 
in  a  particular  area  and  therefore  must  have  some  course- 
work  in  it.  It  is  just  as  easy  to  adopt  a  philosophy,  although 
it  may  at  first  be  hard  to  realize,  that  most  of  the  problems 
faced  professionally  are  problems  for  which  coursework  in 
the  formal  educational  process  cannot  be  directly  applied. 
If  the  student  should  learn  anything  at  all,  it  is  to  learn  to 
learn.  That  is  the  philosophy  that  should  be  imparted  to 
students  and  the  most  important  effect  that  teaching 
should  produce.  A  properly  constituted  set  of  profes- 
sionally and/or  scientifically  oriented  formal  courses  can  be 
minimized  to  accomplish  certain  immediate  purposes  while, 
at  the  same  time,  it  prepares  the  student  for  continuing  the 
learning  process  after  his  first  degree  whether  formally  or  as 
a  process  of  professional  development. 


34 


THE   JOURNAL 


Since  all  WPI  students  are  required  to  complete  a 
common  first  year  of  study,  departmental  control  is 
exercised  only  within  the  three  upper-class  years.  Of  the 
total  time  available  in  those  three  years,  the  approximate 
equivalent  of  a  full  year  of  study  is  devoted  to  Institute 
requirements  in  the  basic  sciences  and  liberal  studies.  Thus, 
departmental  dominion  is  restricted  to  the  equivalent  of 
two  full  years  of  academic  work. 

In  the  proposed  civil  engineering  curriculum  one  year 
equivalent  of  study  is  devoted  to  a  series  of  twelve  required 
course  study  areas.  The  second  equivalent  full  year  of  study 
is  elective.  No  course  in  the  three  upper  class  years, 
required  or  elective,  would  be  specifically  listed  in  a 
particular  year  or  semester. 

Prior  to  the  beginning  of  the  sophomore  year,  students 
electing  civil  engineering  would  be  individually  assigned  to 
an  advisory  board  of  faculty.  Each  student,  in  consultation 
with  his  board,  would  prepare  a  complete  preliminary  study 
plan  for  the  upper  three  years.  Such  plan  would  be  oriented 
to  include  all  requirements  and  electives  in  the  best  order 
necessary  to  meet  the  planned  objectives  and  interests  of 
the  student.  The  plan  would  be  subject  to  change  as  the 
desired  objectives  and  interests  of  the  student  may  change 
for  whatever  reason. 

The  twelve  required  courses  are  designed  to  equip  the 
student  with  the  necessary  fundamental  body  of  knowledge 
underlying  professional  level  studies  in  any  area  of  the  civil 
engineering  discipline.  Topical  content  is  selective  and 
integrated  for  immediate  relevance.  For  example,  statics 
and  strength  of  materials  would  be  integrated  in  a  two- 
course  sequence  rather  than  as  two  separate  courses.  Such 
integration  would  also  apply  to  analysis  and  design  and  to 
other  suitable  combinations  of  study  areas.  This  would 
occur  horizontally  from  semester  to  semester  in  sequence 
and  vertically  within  any  given  semester.  To  the  fullest 
extent  possible  the  program  of  a  student  in  any  semester 
would  be  an  integrated  whole  rather  than  a  battery  of 
separate,  disjointed  courses. 

The  flexibility  inherent  with  twelve  elective  courses 
opens  up  all  sorts  of  desirable  avenues  in  the  undergraduate 
curriculum.  Opportunity  exists  for  some  degree  of  tradi- 
tional specialization  even  at  the  B.S.  level.  This  is  not 
achieved  at  the  expense  of  a  well-balanced  program,  since 
the  required  course  content  provides  that.  Specialization 
must  also  be  structured  for  many  reasons,  not  the  least  of 
which  is  the  matter  of  course  proliferation  and  attendant 
adverse  effects  on  the  unit  cost  of  education.  Opportunity 
also  exists  for  generalization  either  within  or  without  the 
discipline  or  in  various  combinations.  This  provides  for  the 
student  who  has  interdisciplinary  inclinations,  or  for  one 
who  may  simply  wish  to  exercise  an  opportunity  to  shop 
around  until  he  has  established  his  own  goals  and  objec- 
tives. Perhaps  most  significant  is  the  opportunity  to  provide 


parallel  four  and  five  year  tracks.  As  early  as  the  third  year, 
a  student  might  elect  to  spend  a  fifth  year  in  quest  of  an 
M.S.  degree.  Such  work  could  then  be  integrated  through 
all  remaining  years,  and,  followed  to  conclusion,  would 
result  in  the  earning  of  an  M.S.  degree  while  still  retaining 
terminal  B.S.  possibilities  at  the  end  of  four. 

Batteries  of  elective  courses  in  the  subsystems  of 
transportation,  environment,  planning,  and  structures  have 
been  proposed  at  such  levels  as  to  permit  simultaneous 
registration  of  advanced  undergraduate  and  graduate  stu- 
dents. This  would  tend  to  alleviate  the  all  important  aspect 
of  adverse  economy  associated  with  small  graduate  classes. 

The  flexibility  inherent  in  the  new  proposal  affords 
vastly  increased  opportunity  for  project  work.  The  program 
visualizes  a  continuation  of  what  has  been  done  before.  For 
example,  in  structural  design  courses  students  have  pro- 
duced and  will  continue  to  produce  complete  designs  of 
structural  systems.  Since  flexibility  now  crosses  all  class 
years  through  the  M.S.,  such  projects  can  be  of  greater 
variety  both  in  breadth  and  depth  involving  teams  made  up 
of  all  classes.  They  can,  furthermore,  be  integrated.  For 
example,  a  waste  disposal  system  design  can  be  integrated 
with  an  urban  plan  which  would  include  structural  and 
transportation  systems,  among  others. 

CONCLUSION 

The  new  study  plan  proposed  for  civil  engineering 
students  at  WPI  embodies  substantial  departures  from 
traditional  concepts  of  engineering  education.  It  is,  how- 
ever, only  the  beginning  —  a  foundation  which  will  permit 
other  innovative  and  imaginative  educational  ventures  as 
continued  studies  and  experiences  will,  no  doubt,  indicate. 

Apart  from  the  educational  advantages  inherent  in  the 
plan,  there  is  the  all  important  consideration  that  it  has 
been  developed  in  complete  conformance  with  the  concepts 
of  the  system  of  engineering  practice  and  education  that 
has  evolved  naturally  over  many  decades.  This  system  has 
produced  remarkable  successes  and  no  failures.  There  are 
unsolved  problems.  Failure  is  not  in  solution  but  is,  in  fact, 
failure  of  inaction.  The  simple  fact  is  that  those  who 
operate  and  activate  the  system  (not  necessarily  the 
engineer)  sometimes  operate  out  of  phase  with  societal 
development.  All  that  is  required  to  solve  most  of  the 
problems  is  to  operate  the  system  in  step  with  concentra- 
tion of  expertise  and  other  resources  diverted  to  new 
directions. 

The  study  plan  for  civil  engineering  inherently  permits 
educational  concentration  within  the  natural  system  in 
conformance  with  current  societal  needs  and  with  the 
capability  for  instant  reorientation  as  such  needs  change. 
From  this  point  of  view,  it  is  a  model  that  depends  for 
success  only  on  the  ability  of  students  and  faculty  to 
recognize  changing  human  values  and  adjust  their  directions 
accordingly. 


THE   JOURNAL 


35 


DISTRICT 


DOINGS 


<MS 


Boston.  For  the  fall  meeting,  the  Boston 
Chapter  invited  the  members  of  the  North 
Shore  Chapter  to  hear  Dr.  George  W.  Haz- 
zard  speak  on  the  latest  developments  on 
the  Hill.  Over  50  alumni  and  wives  turned 
out  on  October  28th  at  the  Pillar  House  in 
Newton  to  greet  Tech's  new  President.  Dr. 
Hazzard's  address  was  followed  by  a  lively 
discussion  of  both  future  plans  for  WPI  and 
the  trends  in  higher  education  in  general. 

Robert  D.  Behn,  '63 
Secretary 

Rochester-Genesee.  Nineteen  alumni  and 
wives  attended  our  first  fall  meeting  at  the 
new  Flagship-Rochester  Hotel  on  Monday, 
October  20,  1 969.  We  were  pleased  to  have 
as  our  guests  Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard,  Tech's 
new  President,  accompanied  by  Mrs.  Haz- 
zard and  Alumni  Secretary  Warren  B.  Zepp, 
'42.  After  a  satisfying  dinner  of  roast  beef, 
Chaper  President  Bob  Kostka,  '63,  intro- 
duced Dr.  Hazzard,  who  gave  a  most  inform- 
ative talk  on  the  present  status  of  Worcester 
Tech  and  on  future  goals  and  direction  of 
growth.  He  mentioned  expected  problems 
to  be  overcome  in  meeting  the  changing 
requirements  of  the  times  while  still  retain- 
ing its  independent  status  as  a  small  engi- 
neering school.  Following  the  meeting,  we 
all  enjoyed  talking  informally  with  Dr. 
Hazzard  and  with  Mrs.  Hazzard. 
Respectfully, 

Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr.,  '34 
Secretary-  Treasurer 

Washington,  D.C.  The  fall  meeting  of  the 
Washington,  D.C.  Chapter  was  held  at  Evans 
Farm  Inn,  McLean,  Virginia,  on  November 
18,  I969.  It  was  our  great  pleasure  to  have 
Tech's  new  President,  Dr.  George  W.  Haz- 
zard, Mrs.  Hazzard,  and  Prof.  Warren  B. 
Zepp,  '42,  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  as 
our  guests.  The  meeting  was  attended  by 
approximately  40  alumni  and  wives. 

Dr.  Hazzard  was  introduced  by  President 
Dan  Brosnihan,  '62.  Dr.  Hazzard  spoke  on  a 
wide  variety  of  interesting  subjects,  in- 
cluding his  impressions  of  Worcester,  Plan- 
ning Day,  admissions,  and  admissions 
counseling,  to  mention  a  few.  The  present 
thinking  on  the  Hill  in  regards  to  the 
curriculum  and  the  desired  size  of  the 
student  body  was  also  discussed. 

Prof.  Zepp  briefly  discussed  the  current 
fund  drive  and  admissions  counseling. 

Walter  Bank,  '46B,  reported  on  the  prog- 
ress of  admissions  counseling  efforts  by  the 
chapter. 

Dwight  M.  Cornell,  '60 
Secretary 


Connecticut  Valley.  On  November  20, 
1969,  the  chapter  embarked  on  its  1969-70 
season  with  a  meeting  at  the  Lord  Jeffery 
Inn  in  Amherst,  Mass. 

Chapter  President  Lou  Stratton,  '39, 
signified  his  desire  to  move  some  of  the 
meetings  to  the  fringe  areas  of  the  chapter 
in  order  to  draw  participation  from  alumni 
who  would  find  the  Springfield  area  imprac- 
tical. This  initial  endeavor  appeared  to  be 
successful,  since  there  were  a  number  of 
new  faces  among  the  thirty-four  in  attend- 
ance. 

Representing  the  "Hill"  were  Steve 
Hebert,  '66,  Assistant  Alumni  Secretary, 
and  Mel  Massucco,  WPI's  Head  Football 
Coach. 

Steve  spoke  briefly,  introducing  himself 
to  the  chapter,  describing  his  new  position 
and  the  changes  in  the  Alumni  Office  as 
made  possible  by  the  advance  of  the  com- 
puter age. 

Mel  Massucco,  principal  speaker  of  the 
evening,  captured  his  audience  with  a  very 
interesting  commentary  on  athletics  and 
physical  fitness  in  general  and  football  in 
particular  as  it  applies  to  WPI.  Mel's  com- 
ment on  recruiting  possibilities  left  open  to 
him,  i.e.,  a  football  player  with  the  proper 
S.  A.  T.  scores,  being  in  the  upper  third  of 
his  class,  and  having  a  desire  for  an  engi- 
neering education,  indicated  to  all  present 
that  Mel  continues  the  dedication  of  his 
predecessors  in  the  head  coaching  job  at 
WPI. 

Paul  J.  Brown,  '50 
Secretary 

Pittsburgh.  The  fall  Dinner  Meeting  of  the 
1969-70  season  was  held  at  the  Sherwood 
East,  Center  Avenue,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  on 
Wednesday,  November  19,  1969.  In  addi- 
tion to  our  special  guests.  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Hazzard,  the  newly  inaugurated  President  of 
WPI  and  his  wife,  and  Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42, 
Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  18  Pittsburgh 
Chapter  members  and  1 1  wives  attended  the 
meeting. 

President  Donald  M.  McNamara,  '55, 
called  the  business  portion  of  the  meeting  to 
order  at  8:30  P.M.  with  a  word  of  welcome 
to  members  and  guests.  Secretary-Treasurer 
Gedney  B.  Brown,  '55,  reported  a  balance 
of  S37.14  remaining  in  the  treasury.  He 
announced  that  dues  notices  for  the  year 
would  be  sent  out  in  the  next  few  weeks 
and  that  anybody  could  pay  their  dues 
(S2.00I  in  advance  if  they  desired  to  do  so. 


He  also  distributed  copies  of  the  newly 
revised  1969  Pittsburgh  Chapter  Directory 
to  those  present  and  requested  that  he  be 
notified  of  any  additions,  corrections,  or 
deletions  so  that  an  addendum  could  be 
issued  sometime  after  the  first  of  the  year. 

Warren  Zepp  briefly  reviewed  some  of 
the  recent  and  current  Alumni  Association 
activities,  including  the  Techni-Forum  and 
the  Alumni  Association  Master  Plan  Pro- 
gram. 

Following  a  word  of  welcome  by  Vice 
President  Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36,  our 
featured  guest  speaker.  Dr.  Hazzard,  was 
introduced  by  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32, 
Chairman  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees. 

Dr.  Hazzard  began  his  talk  with  his 
impression  of  the  status  at  WPI  through 
stories  of  personal  experiences  on  campus 
and  with  the  students.  He  concluded  from 
these  stories  that  there  was  a  "friendly  spirit 
and  an  enterprising  attitude"  present  on 
campus.  He  then  went  on  to  express  his 
feelings  on  where  WPI  was  going  in  the 
future  which  he  felt  reflected  those  of  the 
faculty,  board  of  trustees,  and  students.  He 
indicated  that  WPI  must  maintain  high 
quality,  and  at  the  same  time,  remain  small 
with  an  estimated  eventual  enrollment  of 
2,000  students.  He  also  stated  that  WPI 
must  provide  diversification  as  well  as  qual- 
ity. He  felt  that  the  Consortium  for  Higher 
Education  in  Worcester  permitted  that 
diversification  while  allowing  the  individu- 
ality of  the  smaller  schools  to  be  retained. 
He  stated  that  the  future  graduate  must  be  a 
technological  humanist,  as  many  of  the 
problems  of  society  are  people  limited,  not 
engineering  limited.  He  then  said  that  a 
program  must  be  developed  at  WPI  to  match 
the  present  physical  plant  which  implies  a 
roll  in  the  process  by  the  alumni.  Alumni 
participation,  he  felt,  could  be  by  helping  to 
bring  new  students,  understanding  and  inter- 
preting the  program,  and  passing  on  ideas 
about  real  life  engineering  and  technical 
behavior  and  studies.  This  latter  assistance 
could  be  in  the  form  of  case  studies  and 
projects  that  could  be  performed  by  the 
students.  He  also  urged  alumni  financial  aid 
which  he  felt  that,  with  the  5-10%  operating 
deficit  at  WPI,  would  be  a  large  lever  to  a 
quality  education.  He  concluded  that  WPI's 
quality,  character,  nature,  and  reputation 
depend  greatly  on  its  students  and  its 
alumni. 

Dr.  Hazzard  received  a  standing  ovation 
from  the  members  present,  which  I  am  sure 
reflects  the  confidence  and  support  the 
alumni  will  have  for  him  in  carrying  out  his 
work  at  Tech. 

The  meeting  closed  at  approximately 
930  P.M. 

Gedney  B.  Brown,  '55 
Secretary-  Treasurer 


36 


THE   JOURNAL 


DeWitt  Clinton  Lambson,  '02 

DeWitt  Clinton  Lambson,  '02,  died  in 
Meriden-Wallingford  (Conn.)  Hospital  on 
December  5,  1969  after  being  ill  for  several 
months.  He  was  94. 

Mr.  Lambson  was  born  on  February  18, 
1875  in  Southwick,  Mass.  and  attended 
Westfield  (Mass.)  High  School  prior  to  en- 
rolling at  WPI  in  1898.  He  received  his 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering  in  1902. 

After  graduation,  Mr.  Lambson  was 
employed  by  the  American  Thread  Co.  of 
Holyoke,  Mass.,  as  an  engineer.  For  the  past 
44  years,  he  had  made  his  home  in  Meriden, 
Conn.,  where  he  was  the  owner  and  oper- 
ator of  Lambson  Specialty  Co. 

He  is  survived  by  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Ernest 
Moesel  of  S.  Meriden;  a  sister,  Mrs.  John  Ely 
of  Granby,  Conn.;  and  four  grandchildren. 


Fritz  A.  Hedberg,  '07 

Fritz  A.  Hedberg,  '07,  died  on  August 
18,  1969,  in  Utica,  N.Y.,  at  the  age  of  83. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  entered  Tech 
in  1903,  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
Fraternity,  and  received  his  degree  in  elec- 
trical engineering  in  1907. 

Mr.  Hedberg  joined  the  Westinghouse 
Electrical  Co.  soon  after  graduation  and 
held  the  position  of  manager  of  the  Utica 
maintenance  and  repair  department  for 
many  years.  He  retired  in  1951.  He  was  also 
a  former  member  of  the  Oneida  County 
Alcoholic  Beverage  Control  Board,  the 
Municipal  Housing  Authority,  and  a  past 
president  of  the  Yahnundasis  Golf  Club.  He 
was  also  a  member  of  the  Rotary  and  the 
Masons. 

Mr.  Hedberg  is  survived  by  his  daughter, 
Mrs.  John  Quinn  of  S.  Hadley,  Mass.;  a 
brother,    Irving,   of    Holden,    Mass.;   and   a 


sister,  Mrs.  Earl  Harper  of  Worcester,  Mass. 
His  wife,  Alma,  died  in  1965. 

Luther  Willis  Hawley,  '08 

Luther  Willis  Hawley,  '08,  died  on  Au- 
gust 4,  1969,  in  New  York  City  after  a  brief 
illness. 

He  was  born  in  Brattleboro,  Vt.,  in  1885 
and  graduated  from  Brattleboro  High 
School  in  1904.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1908  with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering, 
and  he  went  on  to  receive  an  LL.B.  degree 
from  George  Washington  University  in 
1914. 

Following  graduation  from  Tech,  he 
taught  in  Braintree,  Mass.,  before  going  to 
Washington,  D.C.,  to  work  in  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office  and  to  study  patent  law.  He 
later  worked  as  a  patent  attorney  for  the 
Packard  Motor  Car  Co.  and  the  Inter- 
national Harvester  Co.  before  joining  the 
firm  of  Marshall  and  Hawley  in  New  York 
City  where  he  continued  to  practice  until 
his  death. 

He  married  Lola  Waugh  on  August  22, 
1912,  and  they  made  their  home  in  New 
Rochelle,  N.Y.,  for  40  years.  She  died  in 
September,  1957.  He  married  his  second 
wife,  Henrietta,  in  1960,  and  moved  to 
Brooklyn  where  he  lived  at  the  time  of  his 
death. 


ENGINEERING   INGENUITY  . 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Landing  gear  components  on  the  C-5A  military  jet  and 
747  jumbo  jet  are  more  than  twice  the  conventional  size. 
But  Heald  engineers,  using  experience  and  ingenuity, 
designed  the  Heald  Model  576  so  that  one  man  can  pre- 
cision grind  these  out-size  parts  easily. 

The  new  576  is  one  of  the  largest  standard  internals 
ever  built.  This  57-ton  grinder  precision  grinds  holes  up 
to  65"  in  length  and  24"  in  diameter.  It  also  handles  face 
grinding  operations  on  huge,  awkward  parts  weighing  as 
much  as  6,000  pounds  and  requiring  swings  up  to  12  ft. 

The  576  internal  is  already  finding  wide  application 
opportunities  in  the  aerospace,  ordnance  and  power 
generating  equipment  industries. 

For  ingenuity  in  solving  huge  grinding  problems,  it  pays 
to  come  to  Heald,  where  metalworking  needs  meet  new 
ideas. 

THE     HEALD     MACHINE     COMPANY 

ASSOCIATE  OF  THE  CINCINNATI  MILLING  MACHINE  COMPANY 
Worcester,    Massachusetts    01606     U.S.A. 


THE  JOURNAL 


37 


He  is  survived  by  his  widow;  a  sister.  Miss 
Jessie  L.  Hawley  of  Brattleboro;  a  son;  two 
daughters;  and  seven  grandchildren. 

Burdette  Joseph  Halligan,  '11 

Burdette  Joseph  Halligan,  '11,  died  of  a 
heart  attack  while  shopping  in  Greenfield, 
Mass.,  on  October  31,  1969. 

He  was  born  April  15,  1888  in  Shelburne 
Falls,  Mass.  and  graduated  from  Arms  Acad- 
emy in  Shelburne  Falls  in  1907.  He  entered 
WPI  in  the  Fall  of  1907  and  graduated  in 
1911  with  a  B.S.  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering. 

Mr.  Halligan  was  employed  for  many 
years  by  the  New  York  Telephone  Co.,  from 
which  he  retired  in  1946.  From  1946  until 
his  death,  he  was  a  representative  for  State 
Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.  in  Shelburne 
Falls.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Shelburne 
Kiwanis  Club,  the  Masons,  and  Catamount 
Sportsmen's  Club. 

He  leaves  two  sons,  Richard  D.  of  Norris- 
town,  Pa.,  and  Robert  R.  of  West'  Sand 
Lake,  N.Y.;  a  sister;  and  five  grandchildren. 


Harry  Warren  Button,  '12 

Harry  Warren  Button,  '12,  died  on  Octo- 
ber 8,  1 969  in  E.  St.  Louis,  III.  at  the  age  of 
85. 

He  was  born  in  Hartford,  Conn,  on  June 
18,  1884  and  attended  Suffield  Academy 
before  entering  WPI  where  he  earned  his 
B.S.  degree  in  electrical  engineering.  While 
in  college  he  was  elected  to  membership  in 
Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Mr.  Button  was  vice  president  of  Laclede 
Gaslight  Co.  in  charge  of  generation  and 
operations  until  that  company  was  absorbed 
by  Union  Electric  Co.  of  Missouri.  He 
retired  as  plant  superintendent  from  Union 
Electric  in  1950. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  and  he  was 
a  Mason. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Luella;  a 
son,  H.  Warren;  a  daughter,  Barbara;  and 
seven  grandchildren. 

Henry  Philip  Ackermann,  '13 

Henry  Philip  Ackermann,  '13,  passed 
away  on  September  8,  1969  in  Metropolitan 
Hospital,  Detroit.  Mich. 

Mr.  Ackermann  was  born  in  Adams, 
Mass.  on  August  1 3,  1 888  and  attended  high 
school  in  Adams  before  enrolling  at  WPI.  He 
married  Sadie  L.  Curtiss  on  May  26,  1921  in 
Detroit,  and  he  was  employed  by  Chevrolet 
Gear  and  Axle  in  Detroit  until  his  retire- 
ment. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow;  a  daughter, 
Mrs.  Dona  Horton  of  Livonia,  Mich.;  a  son, 
Ralph  C.  of  Dearborn,  Mich.;  a  sister,  Anna 
K.  Ackermann;  and  seven  grandchildren. 


Arthur  W.  Turner,  '13 

Arthur  W.  Turner,  '13,  died  en  route  to  a 
hospital  after  suffering  a  heart  attack  on 
October  9,  1969  in  Warner,  N.H. 

Mr.  Turner  was  born  in  Worcester,  Mass. 
on  January  5,  1890,  and  he  attended  high 
school  in  Templeton,  Mass.  He  entered  WPI 
in  1909  and  majored  in  chemical  engi- 
neering. He  had  lived  in  Warner  for  the  last 
15  years  and  had  devoted  much  of  his  time 
to  renovating  toys  for  the  children's  Christ- 
mas boxes  given  to  local  children.  He  was  a 
member  and  past  officer  of  the  American 
Legion  and  Mount  Hope  Masonic  Lodge, 
Gardner,  Mass. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  the  former 
Margaret  Ruggles;  three  sons,  John  S.  R., 
Morrison  F.,  and  Alden  W.;  two  daughters, 
Marjorie  T.  Etler  of  Amherst,  Mass.  and 
Martha  T.  Gelinas  of  Framingham,  Mass.;  15 
grandchildren;  and  9  great-grandchildren. 

E.  Russell  Karb.  '14 

E.  Russell  Karb,  '14,  passed  away  on 
October  31,  1969  in  a  nursing  home  in 
Framingham,  Mass. 

He  was  born  on  June  27,  1892  in  IMatick, 
Mass.  Before  entering  WPI  in  1909,  he 
attended  Natick  High  School.  While  at  WPI 
he  majored  in  mechanical  engineering  and 
was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity.  He 
graduated  in  1914. 

Mr.  Karb  spent  his  entire  business  career 
of  39  years  as  an  employee  of  the  Dennison 
Manufacturing  Co.  where  he  was  production 
manager  of  the  box  division  for  30  years.  He 
retired  in  1953. 

He  was  active  in  many  musical  organi- 
zations, the  Plymouth  Congregational 
Church  in  Framingham,  and  in  town  affairs. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Gladys 
(Doty)  Karb;  two  sons,  Richard  D.  of 
Framingham  and  Alan  of  Cherry  Hill,  N.J.;  a 
sister,  Mrs.  Alfred  B.  Rich  of  Framingham; 
and  seven  grandchildren. 

Philip  Freeman  Murray,  '15 

Philip  Freeman  Murray,  '15,  a  resident  of 
Merion  Station,  Pa.  and  a  summer  resident 
on  Nantucket  Island,  Mass.,  died  on  August 
29,  1969,  after  a  long  illness. 

He  was  a  retired  insurance  broker  and 
was  associated  with  the  Penn  Mutual  Life 
Insurance  Co.  of  Philadelphia. 

Mr.  Murray  attended  high  school  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio,  and  entered  Tech  in  1911. 
He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
Fraternity.  He  served  as  a  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army  in  World  War  I  and  held  the  rank 
of  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Army  in  World 
War  II. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Society  of 
Mayflower  Descendants,  the  Union  League 
of  Philadelphia,  Merion  Cricket  Club,  and 
the   American  Sons  of   the  Revolution.   He 


was  a  past  president  of  the  Merion  Civic 
Association  and  a  member  of  the  Nantucket 
Yacht  Club  and  the  Cliffside  Beach  Club. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  the  former  Edith 
Hornickel;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Margaret 
Schoff  of  Darien,  Conn.,  and  Mrs.  Jean 
Lewis  of  Berwyn,  Pa.;  a  sister,  Mrs.  Grover 
Burrows  of  Newtown,  Conn.;  and  six  grand- 
children. 


Robert  Whitney  Bartlett,  '16 

Robert  Whitney  Bartlett,  '16,  suffered  a 
fatal  heart  attack  at  his  home  in  Memphis, 
Tenn.  on  November  20,  1969. 

Born  on  July  17,  1892  in  Westfield, 
Mass.,  Mr.  Bartlett  attended  Westfield 
(Mass.)  High  School  before  enrolling  at  WPI 
in  the  fall  of  1912.  He  withdrew  from 
school  in  1914  and  earned  his  B.S.  degree 
from  the  University  of  Maine  two  years 
later. 

He  was  employed  for  a  number  of  years 
by  Barrow-Agee  Laboratories  in  Memphis, 
Tenn.  as  a  senior  chemist.  He  retired  in 
October,  1961. 

Among  his  survivors  is  his  son,  William 
R.  Bartlett  of  Memphis,  Tenn. 

Eric  Harry  Fors,  '16 

Eric  Harry  Fors,  '16,  retired  vice  pres- 
ident in  charge  of  foreign  affairs  and  direc- 
tor of  the  Morgan  Construction  Co.,  died  on 
September  16,  1969,  in  Worcester. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  attended 
preparatory  school  in  Real  Skola,  Sweden. 
He  graduated  from  Tech,  where  he  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity,  in  1916 
with  a  mechanical  engineering  degree.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  British  Iron  and  Steel 
Institute  and  spent  most  of  his  life  in 
Europe. 

He  married  the  former  Nellie  Jackson  in 
1924. 

Mr.  Fors  is  survived  by  his  widow;  two 
sisters,  Mrs.  Marie  Gullberg  of  Clinton, 
Mass.,  and  Mrs.  Lillie  Peterson  of  Worcester; 
and  several  nieces  and  nephews. 

William  Wheeler  Hall,  Jr.,  '18 

William  Wheeler  Hall,  Jr.,  '18,  died  on 
August  24,  1969  in  Maiden  (Mass.)  Hospital 
after  a  lengthy  illness. 

Mr.  Hall  was  born  in  Maiden  and  at- 
tended St.  John's  Military  Academy,  Man- 
lius,  N.Y.,  before  coming  to  Worcester  Tech 
in  1914.  In  1920  he  established  the  firm  of 
W.  W.  Hall  &  Sons  in  Maiden,  selling 
building  materials  and  fuels. 

His  depth  of  knowledge  in  finance 
caused  him  to  be  constantly  sought  for 
counsel  and  advice.  He  was  director  since 
1926  and  president  since  1964  of  the 
Fellsway   Co-operative   Bank,  a   director  of 


38 


THE    JOURNAL 


the  Maiden  Morris  Plan  Bank,  and  a  corpo- 
rator of  the  Maiden  Savings  Bank  and 
Maiden  Hospital.  He  was  also  a  member  of 
the  Maiden  Kiwanis  Club,  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
Fraternity,  and  a  32nd  degree  Mason. 

Mr.  Hall  traveled  extensively  throughout 
the  United  States,  Europe,  and  South  Amer- 
ica and  spent  much  time  showing  pictures  of 
his  travels. 

He  was  the  husband  of  Mrs.  Pauline 
(Sheldon)  Hall,  whom  he  married  in  Maiden 
on  June  16,  1928. 

George  Robert  Roden,  Jr.,  '20 

George  Robert  Roden,  Jr.,  '20,  died  on 
November  3,  I969  in  Pasadena,  Calif. 

Born  in  Ogontz,  Pa.  on  February  18, 
1898,  he  attended  Cheltenham  (Pa.)  High 
School  before  enrolling  at  Tech  in  1916.  He 
was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  frater- 
nity. 

Mr.  Roden  was  sales  manager  of  the 
Window  and  Door  Div.,  Truscon  Steel  Div., 
of  Republic  Steel  Corp.,  and  he  was  located 
in  Youngstown,  Ohio  prior  to  his  retirement 
in  1963.  Upon  retirement,  he  moved  to 
Altadena,  Calif. 

He  married  the  former  Lurline  E. 
Brayley  in  1930.  They  had  a  daughter, 
Carolyn,  and  a  son,  G.  Robert,  III,  who  died 
in  1955. 

Harold  Willard  Bodwell,  '27 

Harold  Willard  Bodwell,  '27,  died  in  a 
Boston  (Mass.)  hospital  on  September  28, 
1969,  after  a  brief  illness.  He  was  64. 

Mr.  Bodwell  was  born  on  March  3,  1905 
in  Methuen,  Mass.,  and  he  attended  Me- 
thuen  High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1923, 
and  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
fraternity.  While  he  was  enrolled  at  WPI,  he 
received  letters  in  football  and  track  and 
was  elected  secretary  of  the  Athletic  Associ- 
ation. 

He  was  a  dairy  farmer  in  Kensington, 
N.H.  for  40  years,  operating  the  Bodwell 
Dairy  Farm.  He  was  a  member  of  numerous 
agricultural  organizations. 

Mr.  Bodwell  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Dorothy  (Turner)  Bodwell;  six  children;  22 
grandchildren;  and  one  great-grandson. 

Edward  John  Purcell,  Jr.,  '27 

Edward  John  Purcell,  Jr.,  '27,  died  at  his 
home  in  Worcester  on  November  15,  I969. 

Born  in  Woonsocket,  R.I.  on  December 
31,  I905,  he  entered  WPI  in  the  fall  of  1923 
after  attending  North  High  School  in 
Worcester.  He  graduated  in  1927  with  a 
degree  in  electrical  engineering. 

Mr.  Purcell  was  employed  by  Morgan 
Construction  Co.,  American  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  and  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  all  in 


Worcester,  before  joining  the  staff  of  Boys 
Trade  High  School  in  Worcester  in  1938  as  a 
drafting  instructor.  He  was  named  assistant 
director  of  the  school  in  1946  and  director 
in  1965.  He  retired  from  the  school  in 
October,  1968. 

He  was  active  in  the  American  Legion 
and  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  II.  He  was  a 
former  commanding  officer  of  the  Naval 
Reserve  Officers  School  in  Worcester  and 
had  served  the  city  of  Worcester  as  chief  of 
civil  defense  operations  from  1951  to  1966. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mary 
(Foley)  Purcell;  a  daughter,  Grace  L.  Dietz 
of  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.;  a  brother,  Warren  R. 
of  Natick,  Mass.;  and  two  grandsons. 

Donald  Bascom  Pike,  '28 

Donald  Bascom  Pike,  '28,  died  at  his 
home  in  Hingham,  Mass.  on  October  20, 
1969,  at  the  age  of  63.  He  had  been  in  ill 
health  for  several  weeks. 

He  was  born  in  Everett,  Mass.  on  Octo- 
ber 16,  1906,  and  attended  Holden  (Mass.) 
High  School.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1928  with  a  B.S.  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering. 

Mr.  Pike  was  employed  for  15  years  by 
the  Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Co.  in  Albany, 
N.Y.  before  he  joined  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  Corp.  of  Boston  as  an  electrical 
draftsman.  He  had  worked  for  them  for  over 
25  years  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

He  was  very  active  in  the  Hingham 
Congregational  Church  and  the  Hingham 
Historical  Society.  He  was  also  a  member  of 
the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engi- 
neers and  the  National  Association  of  Corro- 
sion Engineers. 

Surviving  him  are  his  widow,  Lillian 
(Modig)  Pike;  a  son,  Robert  M.,  USN;  a 
daughter,  Ellen  M.  Pike  of  Hingham;  and  a 
brother,  Stuart,  of  E.  Greenwich,  R.I. 

Carl  Gustav  Larson,  '30 

Carl  Gustav  Larson,  '30,  died  August  9, 
I969  at  his  home  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of 
63. 

Mr.  Larson  had  been  a  plant  superin- 
tendent for  the  Reed  Prentice  Corp.  of 
Worcester  and  later  a  development  engineer 
for  them  after  spending  nine  years  as  plant 
superintendent  for  Botwinik  Brothers  Corp. 
of  Worcester.  He  had  also  been  employed  by 
Norton  Co.  of  Worcester,  R.  J.  Rodday  Co. 
of  Boston,  and  Harrington  &  Richardson 
Arms  Co.  of  Worcester. 

Mr.  Larson  was  born  in  Hoganas,  Swe- 
den, and  attended  school  there.  He  entered 
WPI  in  1926  and  graduated  with  a  degree 
in  electrical  engineering.  While  at  Tech,  Mr. 
Larson  was  an  outstanding  swimmer,  and  in 
1930  as  a  senior,  he  set  a  New  England 
medley  record. 


He  is  survived  by  his  mother,  Mrs.  Albina 
(Hernstron)  Larson  in  Sweden;  his  widow, 
the  former  Alice  Wiberg;  a  son,  Carl  L.;  two 
daughters,  Miss  Linda  K.  of  Worcester  and 
Mrs.  Steven  H.  Nelson  of  Colorado  Springs, 
Colo.;  a  sister  in  Sweden;  and  three  grand- 
children. 

Charles  Thomas  McGinnis,  '32 

Charles  Thomas  McGinnis,  '32,  died  at 
the  Memorial  Hospital  in  Worcester  on 
October  18,  1969,  at  the  age  of  59. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  December 
4,  I909  and  entered  WPI  in  1928.  He  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity. 

Mr.  McGinnis  had  been  employed  as  a 
machine  designer  for  the  Morgan  Construc- 
tion Co.  of  Worcester  for  over  20  years.  He 
had  previously  been  employed  by  the  Riley 
Stoker  Corp.  of  Worcester  and  the  Civilian 
Conservation  Corps  in  Hartford,  Conn.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Mildred  R. 
(Farrell)  McGinnis;  three  sons;  two  daugh- 
ters; three  brothers;  three  sisters;  and  13 
grandchildren. 

Robert  Fiske  Bye,  '33 

Robert  Fiske  Bye,  '33,  was  found  dead 
by  firefighters  in  Worcester  on  September 
14,  1969,  after  fire  swept  his  apartment.  He 
was  60. 

Mr.  Bye  attended  high  schools  in  Maine 
and  Worcester  and  graduated  from  Tech  in 
1933  with  a  B.S.  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  Fraternity.  He  had  been  assistant 
general  manager  of  Cherron  Precision  Gage 
and  Tool  Corp.  in  Lynn,  Mass.  and  in  1962 
he  became  self-employed  as  an  artist  and 
writer. 

Mr.  Bye  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Loretta; 
a  son,  John  F.  of  Kennebunk,  Me.;  a 
daughter,  Mrs.  Janice  Diane  of  Westboro, 
Mass.;  a  sister;  and  two  grandchildren. 

Dixon  Chapman  Burdick,  '36 

Dixon  Chapman  Burdick,  '36,  of  Hughes- 
ville,  Md.,  died  on  July  22,  1969  at  Prov- 
idence Hospital,  Washington,  D.C. 

Born  September  17,  1914,  in  Norwich, 
Conn.,  he  attended  Manchester  High  School 
prior  to  entering  Tech.  While  at  Tech  he 
majored  in  chemistry.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  basketball  team  and  Skeptical  Chymists. 

He  was  a  research  scientist  at  the  Navy 
Research  Bureau  at  Anacostia,  Md.  He  was  a 
veteran  of  World  War  II,  and  a  captain  in  the 
Naval  Reserve. 

Surviving  are  two  daughters  and  three 
sons;  his  wife,  the  former  Mary  E.  King;  a 
sister,  Mrs.  Phyllis  B.  Howeson  of  Man- 
chester, Conn.;  and  a  niece. 


THE  JOURNAL 


39 


Kenneth  Walker  Fowler,  '40 

Kenneth  Walker  Fowler,  '40,  died  on 
November  4,  1969  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  at 
the  age  of  51. 

He  was  born  in  Winthrop,  Mass.  on 
September  2,  I9I8  and  attended  Winthrop 
Senior  High  School.  He  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1941  with  a  degree  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering. He  later  received  an  MBA  degree 
from  Boston  University  in  1957.  While  at 
Tech  he  was  active  in  the  Masque  and  the 
student  chapter  of  A.S.M.E.  as  well  as  being 
a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity. 

Mr.  Fowler  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  II 
and  joined  the  staff  of  Tech  in  I946  as  an 
instructor  in  mechanical  engineering.  He  left 
WPI  in  1956  to  join  Worcester  County 
National  Bank  and  at  the  time  of  his  death 
he  was  assistant  vice-president. 


He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Plant  Engineers  and  the  Na- 
tional Society  of  Professional  Engineers  and 
was  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts.  He  was  also  a  member  of  the 
Worcester  Engineering  Society.  He  was 
active  in  the  Boy  Scouts  and  was  a  Mason. 

He  is  survived  by  two  sons,  Brian  K.  and 
Miles  W.;  a  daughter,  Carol  I.;  a  sister;  and 
two  brothers,  one  of  whom  is  Robert 
Fowler,  Jr.,  '36. 

Victor  Roger  Romasco,  SIM  '65 

Victor  Roger  Romasco,  SIM  '65,  died  at 
his  home  in  Whitinsville,  Mass.  on  Septem- 
ber 23,  1969  after  suffering  a  heart  attack. 
He  was  52. 

He  was  born  in  Uxbridge,  Mass.  on 
November  26,  1916  and  attended  Uxbridge 


High  School  and  Northeastern  University. 

Mr.  Romasco  joined  Whitin  Machine 
Works,  Whitinsville,  in  1937  and  at  the  time 
of  his  death  had  risen  to  be  production 
control  manager. 

He  was  an  Air  Force  Veteran  of  World 
War  II  and  among  his  medals  was  a  Purple 
Heart  with  an  oak  leaf  cluster.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  Milford  (Mass.)  Post,  Dis- 
abled American  Veterans,  and  the  Whitins- 
ville Golf  Club. 

Besides  his  mother,  Mrs.  Nicola 
(Sabatino)  Romasco,  he  is  survived  by  his 
widow,  Muriel  A.  (Wood)  Romasco;  two 
sons,  Stephen  and  Mark;  a  daughter,  Mrs. 
Cheryl  A.  DeFalco  of  Northboro,  Mass.;  and 
two  brothers,  John  and  Mario,  both  of  N. 
Uxbridge. 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1908 

It  has  been  reported  that  Fannie  G. 
Andrews,  wife  of  Bernard  R.  Andrews,  died 
on  August  30,  1969.  As  classmates,  we 
extend  our  sincere  sympathy  to  Bernard  and 
his  family. 

Donald  D.  Simonds,  Secretary 

1913 

George  E.  Chick  is  treasurer  of  John  F. 
Chick  &  Son,  Inc.  in  Silver  Lake,  N.H. 

1917 
Moses  H.  Teaze  writes:  "Nothing  much 
to  add  at  the  'ripe  old  age'  of  80Vi  except  to 
think  back  about  pleasant  memories  of 
which  my  years  at  Worcester  Tech  are  most 
important.  Mrs.  Teaze  and  I  have  enjoyed 
our  nearly  50  years  of  life  together  and  now 
in  our  old  New  England  farmhouse  in 
Weston  (Conn.).  We  also  enjoy  seeing  our 
three  children  lead  successful  lives  and  now 
our  grandchildren  and  great-grandchildren 
add  'spice'  to  life!".  .  .  Alfred  W.  Francis  has 
retired  from  Mobil  Chemical  Co.  and  is 
living  in  Metuchen,  N.J. 

1920 
John  Q.  Holmes  writes  that  "Mrs. 
Holmes  and  I  have  now  been  in  58  countries 
of  the  world.  We  are  running  out  of  places 
to  go."  Last  summer  they  took  a  47-day 
cruise  to  all  the  Scandinavian  countries. 
U.S.S.R.,  Germany,  Holland,  Belgium,  and 
Ireland.  .  .  Raymond  D.  Bishop  reports  that 
he  is  enjoying  retirement  in  Brattleboro,  Vt. 


1922 

Russell  M.  Field  has  retired  as  supervisor 
of  shipbuilding  and  head  of  interior  com- 
munication and  fire  control  for  the  U.S. 
Navy  in  Quincy,  Mass.  He  makes  his  home 
in  S.  Weymouth.  He  writes:  "Howard  F.  and 
Claire  Carlson  were  hosts  to  the  following 
original  members  of  the  class  of  1922  and 
their  wives  at  their  mountain  top  retired 
home  in  Sanbornton,  N.H.  on  Oct.  11, 
1969:  Roy  G.  and  Mariam  Bennett,  Welling- 
ton H.  and  Neva  Bingham,  John  and  Marion 
Cassie,  Russell  M.  and  Luella  Field,  Carl  M. 
and  Opal  Holden,  James  L.  and  Rachel 
Marston,  George  F.  and  Winnie  Parsons,  and 
John  G.  Snow." 

1925 

Robert  B.  Scott  is  retired  and  makes  his 
winter  home  in  Mesa,  Ariz.  In  the  summer 
he  resides  in  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

1926 

Kenneth  R.  Archibald  has  accepted  a 
position  as  Executive  Director  of  the  Spring- 
field (Vt.)  area  Chamber  of  Commerce.  He 
was  formerly  Executive  Director  of  the 
Ludlow  (Vt.)  Chamber  of  Commerce.  .  . 
John  S.  Miller  has  retired  from  the  Torring- 
ton  Co.,  Torrington,  Conn.  He  was  assistant 
manufacturing  manager  of  the  bearings  divi- 
sion. .  .  A.  Harold  Wendin  is  now  living  in 
Mesa,  Ariz.  He  writes:  "We  have  been 
wandering  around  the  country  and  Mexico 
for  the  past  three  and  one-half  years.  It  has 
been    a  wonderful   retired   life  and  we  are 


looking  forward  to  many  more  exciting  and 
interesting  trips." 

1929 

Boris  Dephoure  reports  that  he  is  retired 
from  Sears,  Roebuck  &  Co.  and  that  on 
August  22,  1969  he  married  Helen  Miller 
after  being  a  widower  for  13  years.  He  lives 
in  Hollywood,  Fla. 

1930 

George  E.  Perreault  recently  retired  from 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  after  a  career 
of  39  years.  He  was  supervisor  of  the 
Switching  Apparatus  Development  Group  in 
Holmdel,  N.J. 

1931 

Jay  Harpell  reported  in  the  fall  that  he  is 
working  for  Pope,  Evans  &  Robbins  Inter- 
national, Ltd.  in  Saigon  as  chief  electrical 
engineer.  .  .  Charles  A.  Kennedy  has  retired 
from  Worthington  Corp.  and  is  living  in 
Short  Hills,  N.J. 

1933 

A.  Elmer  Pihl  is  employed  as  an  electrical 
engineer  by  the  Leland  Gifford  Co.  of 
Worcester,  and  he  makes  his  home  in  S.Yar- 
mouth, Mass.  .  .  Joseph  S.  Virostek,  a  senior 
partner  in  the  law  firm  of  Virostek  & 
Virostek,  E.  Douglas,  Mass.,  has  been  nomi- 
nated by  Mass.  Governor  Sargent  as  special 
justice  of  the  Second  Southern  District 
Court  of  Worcester  County.  .  .  E mil  C. 
Ostlund  is  presently  self-employed  as  a 
consulting  engineer  in  Dover,  Mass. 

1934 
William  E.   Mesh  is  a  senior  engineer  for 
IBM  Corp.  in  Rochester,  Minn. 


40 


THE   JOURNAL 


Addition 

Additiona 

Contributors    to    the 

1968-69  Annual  Alumni  Fund  are: 

Sumner  A 

.  Norton,  '33 

Robert  W 

Baker,  '36 

Gordon  E 

Hitchcock,  '49 

Joseph  S. 

Vitalis,  '51 

Thaddeus 

Betts,  '64 

CENTURY  CLUB: 

Charles  F 

Monnier,  '27 

BOOSTER  CLUB: 

Lester  H. 

Longton,  Jr.,  '49 

1935 

Frank  O.  Holmes,  Jr.  is  the  Manager  of 
Research  and  Development  for  the  Thomp- 
son Aircraft  Tire  Corp.  in  S.  San  Francisco, 
Calif.  .  .  Charles  S.  Smith  reports  that  he  has 
left  Shenango  Furnace  in  Cleveland,  Ohio 
and  has  opened  his  own  business  in  Pom- 
pano  Beach,  Fla.  as  a  marine  consultant.  He 
says  he  is  looking  forward  to  life  in  the 
sunshine  state.  .  .  William  R.  Steur  has  been 
named  Director  of  Engineering  for  Sargent 
&  Lundy  of  Chicago.  He  has  been  with  the 
company  continuously  since  his  graduation 
from  WPI. 

1936 

Harold  F.  Pomeroy  is  employed  by 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co.  in  Hartford, 
Conn.,  as  Superintendent,  Transmission  and 
Distribution.  He  lives  in  Glastonbury. 

1938 

Robert  0.  Alexander  is  now  employed 
by  the  Kendall  Co.,  Walpole,  Mass.  .  .Albert 
J.  Kullas  is  planetary  systems  vice-president 
of  Martin  Marietta  Corp.  in  Denver,  Colo. 
At  present,  he  is  largely  responsible  for  the 
design  of  a  craft  to  land  on  Mars  and  he  was 
previously  director  of  the  technical  staff 
which  developed  the  Titan  II  rocket.  .  .  A. 
George  Mallis  has  been  sworn  in  as  the  Civil 
Engineer  on  the  Massachusetts  Board  of 
Professional  Engineers.  .  .  Robert  B.  Abbe 
was  recently  appointed  assistant  professor  at 
Thames  Valley  State  College  in  Norwich, 
Conn.  His  son,  Pat,  is  a  member  of  the  class 
of  1970  at  WPI.  .  .  Dr.  Arnet  L.  Powell  is 
now  Deputy  Director  and  Chief  Scientist  for 
the  Office  of  Naval  Research  in  Boston, 
Mass.  He  makes  his  home  in  Wayland,  Mass. 

1939 

John  M.  Driscoll,  vice  president,  sales. 
Western  Hemisphere,  of  the  M.  W.  Kellogg 
Co.,  has  been  elected  a  vice  president  and 
director  of  Canadian  Kellogg  Co.,  Ltd.,  in 
Toronto,  an  affiliate  company  of  M.  W. 
Kellogg.  .  .  Oiva  John  Kama  is  currently  in 


Madrid,  Spain,  working  for  the  Foster 
Wheeler  Corp.  .  .  Bradford  W.  Ordway  says, 
"After  30  years  with  Heald  Machine,  have 
retired  to  devote  full  time  to  investments  in 
real  estate.  Currently  on  drawing  board  — 
100  family  lakeside  community  within  20 
minutes  of  downtown  Worcester." 

1940 

Benedict  K.  Kaveckas  is  presently  chief 
mechanical  design  engineer  for  Information 
Transfer  Corp.  in  Wellesley  Hills-v  Mass.  He  is 
involved  in  the  design  of  desk  top  com- 
puters for  the  instruction  of  students. 

1941 

K.  Blair  Benson  is  employed  as  a  staff 
consultant,  Advanced  Technology,  to  the 
general  manager  of  engineering  and  develop- 
ment for  the  CBS  television  network.  He 
resides  with  his  wife  and  four  children  in  S. 
Norwalk,  Conn.  .  .  Harvey  W.  Eddy  is  now  a 
Brigadier  General  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and 
has  assumed  command  of  the  Office  of 
Aerospace  Research  (OAR)  in  Arlington, 
Virginia.  .  .  Rotron,  Inc.  of  Woodstock, 
N.Y.  has  promoted  Berkeley  Williams,  Jr.  to 
the  position  of  manager,  Design  Documen- 
tation and  Support.  .  .  George  A.  Cowan  is 
serving  the  American  Chemical  Society  as 
chairman  of  the  Division  of  Nuclear  Chemis- 
try and  Technology  in  1970.  He  also  reports 
that:  "(I  am)  moonlighting  as  chairman  of 
the  board,  Los  Alamos  (Calif.)  National 
Bank." 

1942 

John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr.  has  left  the  Morgan 
Construction  Co.  in  Worcester  and  is  now 
employed  as  Products  Sales  Manager  at 
Hobbs  Manufacturing  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Paul  Yankauskas  is  with  Los  Angeles  Period 
Furniture  Co.  in  Los  Angeles.  .  .  Also  in 
California  is  David  M.  Coleman.  He  is 
employed  by  the  Diamond  Shamrock  Co.  in 
Redwood  City  as  Production/Sales  Coordi- 
nator. .  .  Allan  G.  Anderson  is  President  of 
Underseas  Engineering,  Inc.  in  Riviera 
Beach,  Fla.,  and  he  makes  his  home  in  Palm 
Beach  Gardens.  .  .  Wilbur  H.  Day  is  an  engi- 
neering branch  manager  for  the  Singer  Co., 
Link  Div.,  in  Silver  Spring,  Md. 

1943 
Jackson  L.  Durkee  is  chief  bridge  engi- 
neer for  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.,  Fabricated 
Steel  Construction,  in  Bethlehem,  Pa.  .  . 
George  F.  Fairhurst  has  been  elected  the 
fourth  President  of  the  Society  of  Logistics 
Engineers.  George  is  employed  as  Manager 
of  Engineering  Support  and  Logistics  with 
RCA  Electromagnetic  and  Systems  Div., 
Van  Nuys,  Calif.  .  .  George  W.  Golding,  Jr.  is 
principal  structural  engineer  for  Jackson  & 
Moreland    Div.,  United  Engineers  and  Con- 


structors, Inc.  in  Philadelphia.  He  is  located 
in  Santurce,  Puerto  Rico. 

1944 

Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.  is  President 
and  Treasurer  of  Donahue  Industries,  Inc., 
Carroll  Pressed  Metal  Div.,  Component  Plas- 
tics Div.,  which  has  recently  completed  a 
move  to  a  new  plant  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 
Jim  continues  to  be  very  active  in  many 
public  and  private  organizations,  including 
being  Chairman  of  WPI's  Alumni  Fund 
Board.  .  .  Sidney  Stayman  is  President  of 
Stamina  Mills,  Inc.  in  New  York  City  and  he 
resides  in  Mamaroneck,  N.Y.  .  .  Thomas  A. 
Bombicino  is  vice-president  —  manufac- 
turing and  research  at  New  England  Mica 
Co.  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

1945 

Anson  C.  Fyler  has  been  named  a  direc- 
tor of  Phoenix  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Harold  D.  Fleit  reports 
that  he  is  now  living  in  Bayside,  Wis.  .  . 
Jamesbury  Corp.  in  Worcester  reports  that 
Olavi  H.  Halttunen  is  their  vice-president  — 
marketing.  .  .  Albert  P.  Talboys  is  located  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  working  for  Air  Pollution 
Control. 

1946 

George  E.  Comstock,  III  has  formed  a 
computer  equipment  company  in  Hayward, 
Calif.,  Diablo  Information  Systems  Corp.,  of 
which  he  is  president.  Four  days  after  the 
company  was  formed,  ITEL  Corp.  pur- 
chased part  of  the  company  for  $2  mil- 
lion. .  .  Dr.  John  L.  Brown  is  now  at  the 
University  of  Rochester  (N.Y.)  as  a  Pro- 
fessor of  Psychology  and  Visual  Science.  He 
had  previously  been  at  Kansas  State  Univer- 
sity as  vice  president  for  academic 
affairs.  .  .  Dr.  Roland  W.  Ure,  Jr.  is  also  in 
the  field  of  education.  He  is  Professor  of 
Materials  Science  and  Electrical  Engineering 
at  the  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City.  .  . 
We  have  learned  that  Bernard  L.  Beisecker 
has  been  appointed  assistant  general  man- 
ager of  Reed  &  Prince  Mfg.  Co.  in  Worcester. 

1946B 
John   W.   Carpenter,   Jr.    is  district  sales 
manager  for  National  Homes  Corp.  in  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich. 

1946D 

Allen  Breed  has  informed  us  that  he  has 
recently  returned  to  the  States  from  Japan 
and  that  he  is  now  living  in  Saratoga,  Calif. 
He  is  employed  by  the  Nuclear  Energy  Div. 
of  General  Electric  in  San  Jose,  Calif.  .  .  The 
Kuhlman  Transformer  Co.  of  Lexington, 
Ky.  has  hired  Richard  F.  Propst  as  their 
manager    of    distribution,    transformer  pro- 


THE   JOURNAL 


41 


ducts.  Prior  to  this  move,  he  had  been 
employed  by  G.E.  for  23  years.  .  .  Manuel 
Renasco  has  formed  a  consulting  engi- 
neering firm  in  Rumford,  R.I.,  Guillemette- 
Renasco  Associates. 

1947 

H.  Edwin  Johnson  is  now  living  in 
Scottsdale,  Ariz,  and  is  employed  by  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  in  Phoenix  as  a  marketing 
specialist.  .  .  Kenneth  H.  Truesdell  has  been 
promoted  to  Manager,  Systems  Support,  at 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  E.  Hartford, 
Conn.  Ken,  his  wife,  and  three  children  live 
in  S.  Glastonbury,  Conn. 

1948 

Robert  A.  Green  has  been  elevated  to  the 
executive  staff  at  Avco  Bay  State  Abrasives 
Div.  in  Westboro,  Mass.  Bob  is  now  director 
of  safes. 

1949 

Dean  P.  Amidon  is  presently  chief  dis- 
trict engineer  for  the  Massachusetts  DPW  in 
the  Pittsfield  Area.  .  .  New  London,  Conn,  is 
the  location  of  John  R.  Hunter.  He  is 
manager  of  electrical  engineering  at  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat  Div.  .  .  Daniel  L. 
McQuillan  reports  he  is  now  living  in  Mat- 
tapoisett,  Mass.  Dan  is  senior  vice  president 
for  the  Aerovox  Corp.  in  New  Bedford, 
Mass.  and  he  is  in  charge  of  three  plants.  .  . 
Dynamics  Research  Corp.  has  informed  the 
Association  that  they  have  promoted  Abra- 
ham W.  Siff  to  the  position  of  marketing 
manager  of  its  Components  Div.  He  lives  in 
Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  Edward  H.  Dion  is  an 
electrical  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at 
Westover  AFB,  Mass.  Ed  received  his  MBA 
last  year  from  Western  New  England  Col- 
lege. .  .  Roger  N.  Wentzel  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  at  the  U.S.  Army's  Mobility  Equip- 
ment Research  and  Development  Center  at 
Fort  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  Charles  C.  Allen  writes: 
"I  have  just  returned  to  General  Electric's 
Research  and  Development  Center  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  after  a  very  stimulating 
year  on  leave  as  Visiting  Associate  Professor 
of  Electrical  Engineering  at  Union  College  in 
Schenectady.  It  was  a  rewarding  experience 
both  working  with  the  students  and  re- 
newing and  updating  my  grasp  of  funda- 
mentals." 

1950 
Paul  J.  Brown  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer for  Wico,  the  Prestolite  Div.  of  Eltra 
Corp.  in  W.  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  Richard 
Connell  writes:  "For  a  fellow  who  stayed  in 
one  place  for  14  years,  I  have  really  jumped 
around  in  the  last  year."  He  is  currently 
Chief  Electrical  Engineer  for  Automated 
Handling  Systems  Inc.  in  Washington,  D.C., 
and  he  says  his  family  enjoys  the  area.  They 


are  living  in  Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  Tejinder 
Singh  reports  he  has  now  become  the 
manager  of  the  Bombay  (India)  terminal  for 
Burmah-Shell  Refineries  Ltd.  He  says,  "If 
anyone  from  Tech  ever  happens  to  be  in 
India.  .  .  my  wife  and  I  would  both  be  very 
glad  to  see  them  and  assist  them  in  any  way 
we  can.".  .  .  Royal  Typewriter  Co.,  Div.  of 
Litton  Industries,  has  Robert  F.  Stewart  as 
their  President.  Bob  lives  in  W.  Hartford, 
Conn.,  with  his  wife,  Joan,  and  their  two 
children.  .  .  Richard  H.  McMahan,  Jr.  is  a 
senior  systems  analyst  for  General  Electric 
Co.  and  is  living  in  Honolulu,  Hawaii. 

1951 

Walter  R.  Anderson  lives  in  Sudbury, 
Mass.  and  is  President  of  IRA  Systems,  Inc. 
in  Waltham.  .  .  Bailey  Meter  Co.  employs 
William  J.  Cunneen  as  its  manager  of  com- 
puter sales  in  Wickliffe,  Ohio.  .  .  E.  I.  Du- 
Pont  deNemours  &  Co.  has  informed  us  that 
Paul  E.  Thomas,  MS,  is  now  in  Geneva, 
Switzerland.  .  .  Roger  E.  Wye  writes:  "After 
eighteen  years  with  Philco  (Philco-Ford),  I 
am  joining  up  with  Magnavox  as  Director  of 
Engineering  of  Fort  Wayne  Operations  in 
Indiana.".  .  .  Capt.  Edward  A.  Kacmarcik  is 
an  Administration  Management  Officer  for 
the  U.S.  Air  Force.  He  is  stationed  at 
Stewart  AFB,  N.Y.  .  .  Celanese  Fibers  Mar- 
keting Co.  in  Charlotte,  N.C.,  now  employs 
Robert  M.  Luce.  .  .  Antonio  J.  Renasco  is 
Consul  General  for  the  Nicaraguan  Govern- 
ment in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  Scott  Paper  Co. 
employs  Phillip  G.  Blair  as  a  finishing 
engineer  at  their  Detroit  (Mich.)  plant.  .  . 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford, 
Conn,  has  named  Herbert  J.  Hayes,  Jr.  chief, 
product  support  engineering  —  commercial 
airline  engines.  .  .  Thomas  A.  McComiskey  is 
a  project  engineer  for  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp. 
in  Leetsdale,  Pa. 

1952 

Ray  N.  Fenno  is  a  civil  engineer  with 
Charles  T.  Main,  Inc.  in  Boston.  He  lives  in 
Norwell,  Mass.  .  .  Walter  H.  Rothman  re- 
ports  that  Sanders  Associates  has  transferred 
him  to  S.  Portland,  Me.,  and  that  he  is  living 
in  Portland.  .  .  George  F.  Whittle  is  now 
residing  in  Weymouth,  Mass.  and  is  self- 
employed  as  a  manufacturers'  representa- 
tive. .  .  Edgar  L.  VanCott,  Jr.  has  recently 
accepted  a  position  at  Devonshire  Computer 
Corp.  in  Dedham,  Mass.  He  is  vice-president 
—  engineering  and  manufacturing. 

1953 
The  new  chief  of  the  Development  Div. 
of  the  Air  Force  is  Major  Emit  G.  Larson. 
He  is  currently  stationed  in  Wiesbaden, 
Germany.  .  .  Also  in  the  armed  forces  is 
Robert  G.  Lunger.  He  is  in  the  Design  and 
Development  Branch  of  the  Explosive  Ord- 


nance Disposal  Center  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Picatinny  Arsenal  in  Dover,  N.J.  .  .  Heald 
Machine  Co.  in  Worcester  has  announced 
that  Orren  B.  McKnight,  Jr.  has  been  ap- 
pointed domestic  sales  manager.  .  .  Henry  A. 
Vasil  writes:  "I  am  still  working  for  Boston 
Edison  Co.,  now  as  a  supervising  engineer  in 
the  Electrical  Operations  Dept.  He,  his  wife 
Louise,  and  son  Michael  live  in  W.  Roxbury, 
Mass.  .  .  G.  Brady  Buckley  is  now  living  in 
Erie,  Pa.  and  is  working  for  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Erie  as  Manager  —  Marketing  Trans- 
portation Parts.  .  .  George  E.  Saltus  is  with 
Bell  Telephone  Labs  in  Denver,  Col.  as  a 
department  head.  .  .  Donald  R.  Campbell  is 
a  program  manager  for  the  U.S.  Navy 
Underwater  Sound  Lab.  at  Fort  Trumbull, 
New  London,  Conn.  .  .  Western  Electric  Co., 
Inc.  has  transferred  John  H.  Gearin,  Jr.  to 
Indianapolis,    Ind.,    where    he    is    manager, 

manufacturing  and  industrial  engineering. 

1954 

IRA  Systems,  Inc.  of  Waltham,  Mass.  has 
a  new  computer  systems  manager  in  the 
person  of  Clayton  S.  Brown.  He  makes  his 
home  in  Westwood.  .  .  Dr.  Richard  E.  Gil- 
bert is  in  the  Chemical  Engineering  Dept.  at 
the  University  of  Nebraska  in  Lin- 
coln. .  .  Harry  L.  Mirick  has  been  appointed 
the  director  of  manufacturing  for  the  Pre- 
cision Metals  Div.  of  the  Hamilton  Watch 
Co.  Harry  and  his  family  now  live  in 
Lancaster,  Pa.  .  .  Robert  C.  Pickford  is  a 
systems  analyst  project  leader  for  the  Amer- 
ican Optical  Co.  in  Southbridge,  Mass.,  and 
he  makes  his  home  in  Sturbridge.  .  .  The 
assistant  to  the  head  of  the  Weapons  Devel- 
opment Dept.  of  the  U.S.  Naval  Underwater 
Weapons  Research  &  Engineering  Station  in 
Newport,  R.I.  is  Edwin  Shivell.  He  has  been 
with  the  station  since  1955.  .  .  George  D. 
Ramig  is  Product  Manager/Electronic 
Ceramics  for  Magnetics,  Inc.  in  E.  Butler, 
Pa. 

1955 

Francis  J.  Horan,  Jr.  has  won  the  Nor- 
thampton (Mass.)  Jaycee's  Distinguished 
Service  Award  as  the  outstanding  young 
man  in  Northampton  for  1968  and  1969. 
He  is  a  district  sales  manager  for  the 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  .  .  Peter  S.  Mor- 
gan, SIM,  is  now  Vice-President  -  Adminis- 
tration and  Purchases  for  Morgan  Construc- 
tion Co.  in  Worcester.  He  has  also  been 
elected  a  trustee  of  Worcester  Junior 
College. 

1956 
John  H.  Rogers,  Jr.  is  a  special  represent- 
ative for  E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  and  Co., 
Inc.  in  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  William  A.  John- 
son is  employed  by  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc.  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.  as  a  consulting  chemical 
engineer.  .  .  Ronald  A.    Venezta   is  a  Com- 


42 


THE    JOURNAL 


Satellite  Systems 


You'll  find  a  future 
at  Philco-Ford 

Your  future  will  be  as  bold  and  as  bright  as  your 
imagination  and  ambition  make  it. 

Your  future  will  be  as  challenging  as  your 
assignments  .  .  .  and  you  might  work  on  anything 
from  satellites,  to  communications  systems,  to 
microelectronics,  to  home  entertainment  or 
appliances.  It's  your  chance  to  be  as  good  as  you  want 
to  be.  You  will  build  an  experience  bank  that  will 
prepare  you  for  many  opportunities. 

Your  future  begins  now  with  a  letter  to  College 
Relations,  Philco-Ford  Corporation,  C  and 
Tioga  Streets,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  19134. 


PHILCO 

The  Better  Idea  People  In  Your  Future. 

An  equal  opportunity  employer 


Communications  Antenna  Systems 


THE    JOURNAL 


43 


mander  in  the  U.S.  Public  Health  Service. 
Ron  is  presently  assigned  to  Washington 
Univ.  in  St.  Louis  to  work  on  his  doctorate 
in  Environmental  Engineering.  .  .  Edwin  B. 
Coghlin,  Jr.  has  been  elected  a  trustee  of 
Worcester  Junior  College.  .  .Arnold  M.  Hall 
writes:  "I  recently  joined  two  associates  in 
forming  a  new  company  devoted  to  the 
design  and  fabrication  of  air  cushion  vehi- 
cles. The  company  was  incorporated  in 
April,  1969  and  is  known  as  Air  Cushion 
Technology  Corp.  It  is  in  Groton,  Conn." 
Arnold  is  the  company's  vice-president. 

1957 

David  E.  Stuart  is  the  new  assistant 
director  of  the  New  England  Power  Ex- 
change. He  and  his  family  reside  in  South- 
wick,  Mass.  .  .  Howard  C.  Dickson  is  a  sales 
engineer  for  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.  in  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  He  resides  in  Newark,  Del.  .  . 
Sprague  Electric  Co.  in  l\l.  Adams,  Mass. 
employs  Robert  R.  Purple  as  Marketing 
Manager  —  Filter  Div.  .  .Stephen  Z.  Gunter 
is  an  assistant  project  scientist  for  the  Jet 
Propulsion  Laboratory,  division  of  Cal  Tech. 

1958 

Roger  L.  Alvey  is  now  a  product  mer- 
chandiser for  the  Minnesota  Mining  &  Manu- 
facturing Co.  in  St.  Paul,  Minn.  He  makes 
his  home  in  Stillwater,  Minn.  .  .  Paul  Dalton 
tells  us  that  he  has  moved  about  once  a  year 
for  the  last  three  or  four  years.  He  is 
presently  plant  manager  for  the  Monsanto 
Co.  in  Yardville,  N.J.,  and  he  lives  in 
Mercerville.  .  .  Dr.  Larry  Dworkin  is  now  a 
project  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Government  at 
Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  M.  B.  Associates  in 
San  Ramon,  Calif.,  has  Edward  C.  Eraser  as 
a  program  manager.  .  .  Donald  R.  Grenon  is 
a  District  Electrical  Engineer  for  the  Con- 
necticut Light  and  Power  Co.  in  Waterbury, 
Conn.  He  resides  in  Cheshire.  .  .  James  K. 
Karalekas  is  City  Traffic  Engineer  for  the 
town  of  E.  Providence,  R.I.  He  is  also 
President  of  the  Rhode  Island  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  ..  Peter  J. 
Ottowitz  has  been  appointed  manager  of  the 
Scientific  Div.  of  O.  S.  Walker  Co.,  Inc.  in 
Worcester.  He  came  to  O.  S.  Walker  from 
Texas  Instruments,  Inc.  ..  Bernard  M. 
Campbell,  Jr.  reports  that  he  is  now  back  in 
the  Worcester  area  and  is  employed  by  Avco 
Bay  State  Products  Div.  in  Westboro  as  a 
project  engineer.  .  .  William  J.  O'Neil  is  an 
automation  sales  engineer  for  General  Elec- 
tric Co.  in  New  York  City.  .  .  J.  William 
Be/anger,  Jr.  is  Executive  Vice-President  of 
Multi-Logic  Corp.  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

1959 
Married:     David     B.     Sullivan     to     Miss 
Judith  Mary  Andersen  of  Closter,  N.J.,  on 
June    28,    1969.    Among    the    ushers    was 


Ronald  C.  Pueschel,  '63.  Dave  is  an  engi- 
neering supervisor  with  Grumman  Aero- 
space Corp.  in  Bethpage,  N.Y. 

Thomas  J.  Downs  has  been  promoted  to 
construction  supervisor  in  the  Waterbury 
(Conn.)  office  of  the  Southern  New  England 
Telephone  Co.  He  is  also  a  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Coast  Guard  Reserve.  ..  John  A. 
McManus  has  been  appointed  director  of  the 
New  Britain  (Conn.)  Water  Dept.  .  .  Charles 
T.  Smith,  Jr.  has  received  his  master's  degree 
in  business  administration  from  North- 
eastern University  and  is  employed  by  the 
Foxboro  Co.  in  Foxboro,  Mass.  as  a  project 
engineer.  .  .  Frederick  J.  Costello  is  District 
Sales  Manager  for  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in 
Chicago.  .  .  Thomas  F.  Humphrey  is  Vice- 
President  and  Treasurer  of  Urban  Transpor- 
tation Systems  Associates,  Inc.  in  Wellesley, 
Mass.  .  .  Hamilton  Standard  Div.  of  United 
Aircraft  Corp.  in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn, 
employs  Armand  Ruby,  Jr.  as  a  chemical 
engineer.  ..  James  Cinquina,  Jr.  writes:  "I 
resigned  from  St.  Regis  Paper  Co.  to  take  a 
position  as  project  engineer  with  Better- 
Built  Machinery  Inc.,  Saddle  Brook, 
N.J.".  .  .  Roger  E.  Miller  received  a  master's 
degree  from  Florida  Institute  of  Technology 
in  September,  '1969  in  systems  manage- 
ment. .  .  Major  Joseph  B.  Vivona  is  now 
stationed  in  Ankara,  Turkey,  where  he  is  a 
signal  planner. 


1960 

Paul  W.  Bayliss  has  been  promoted  by 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  Murray  Hill, 
N.J.,  to  Director  of  the  Employee  Activities 
Center  and  Secretary  of  the  Employees' 
Benefit  Committee.  .  .  Dr.  Robert  C.  Bearse, 
who  received  his  doctorate  degree  from  Rice 
University  in  1964,  is  now  an  Assistant 
Professor  at  the  University  of  Kansas  in  the 
Physics  and  Astronomy  Dept.  .  .  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Div.  of  the  United  Aircraft 
employs  Donaldson  A.  Dow  as  a  senior 
design  engineer  in  W.  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  .  . 
Frank  A.  Droms,  Jr.  is  employed  by  Thomp- 
son Ramo  Woolridge  Systems  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  .  .  Sang  Ki  Lee  is  now  a  patent 
attorney  for  Western  Electric  Co.  in 
N.Y.C.  .  .  Francis  G.  Toce  has  written  us  to 
say  that  he  has  become  Manager  of  Engi- 
neering of  the  Closed  Circuit  TV  Unit  of 
General  Electric  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  Nathan 
O.  Beale  is  manufacturing  manager  for 
Eastern  Industries,  Div.  of  LFE,  in  Hamden, 
Conn.  .  .  George  H.  Cadwell,  Jr.  is  Vice- 
President  of  Flanders  Filters,  Inc.  in  Wash- 
ington, N.C.  .  .  Lawrence  W.  Cochrane,  Jr.  is 
now  living  in  Marblehead,  Mass.  .  .  Edward 
P.  Donoghue  has  been  appointed  Corporate 
Manager  of  Management  Information  Sys- 
tems of  American  Biltnte  Rubber  Co.  in 
Boston,    Mass.  .  .  David   A.    Mudgett    is  an 


engineer  for  M.l.T.'s  Lincoln  Labs,  working 
at  Project  Press  in  Honolulu.  .  .  Chester  W. 
Stanhope  is  an  Assistant  Professor  in  the 
E.E.  Dept.  at  Merrimack  College  in  Law- 
rence, Mass.  .  .  Bankers  Trust  of  New  York 
City  employs  David  J.  Welch  as  an  official 
assistant.  David  received  his  MBA  this  year 
from  the  Wharton  School  at  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania.  .  .  Edward  J.  Russell  is  now 
employed  by  Booz,  Allen  &  Hamilton,  Inc., 
management  consultants,  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  Ronald  F.  Pokraka  is  eastern  mar- 
keting manager  for  Industrial  Dynamics.  He 
is  located  in  Pennsauken,  N.J.  .  .  We  have 
learned  that  Jon  E.  Thorson  is  still  with  IBM 
and  that  he  is  living  in  Hyde  Park,  N.Y.  In 
the  last  two  years  he  has  done  some 
traveling  throughout  Europe,  and  he  is 
awaiting  the  publication  of  his  second  arti- 
cle. .  .  John  S.  Vale  has  received  a  Juris 
Doctor  degree  from  Suffolk  University,  and 
he  took  the  Massachusetts  Bar  exam  in 
December  of  1969.  He  is  presently  product 
manager  at  P.R.  Mallory  &  Co.,  Inc.  in 
Burlington,  Mass. 


1961 

Married:  Richard  T.  Davis  to  Miss 
Dorothy  I.  DeSocio  of  Hewitt,  N.J.  on 
September  6,  1969.  They  are  living  in  New 
Rochelle,  N.Y.,  and  Dick  is  working  in  New 
York  as  an  associate  editor  for  MicroWaves 
magazine  which  is  published  by  Hayden 
Publishing  Co.  .  .  John  A.  Quagliaroli  to 
Miss  Judith  Sylvia  Fowler  of  Syracuse,  N.Y., 
on  November  15,  1969.  John  is  a  marketing 
representative   of    IBM    Corp.    in  Syracuse. 

Lawrence  L.  Israel  is  Manager  of  OEM 
Product  Development  in  the  Peripheral 
Products  Dept.  of  Scientific  Data  Systems,  a 
Xerox  Co.  He  resides  in  Santa  Monica,  Calif, 
and  says,  "I  would  highly  recommend  the 
climate  here  to  any  Tech-Men  who  are 
thinking  of  relocating".  .  .  Richard H.  Nelson 
is  now  living  in  IniJialantic,  Fla.,  and  is 
Assoc.  Principal  Engineer  for  Radiation  Inc. 
in  Melbourne,  Fla.  .  .  Dr.  James  W.  Swaine, 
Jr.  is  a  research  chemist  for  Allied  Chemical 
Corp.  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  Dr.  Charles  E. 
Wilkes  has  been  named  a  section  leader  at 
the  B.  F.  Goodrich  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Center  in  Brecksville,  Ohio.  .  .  Charles 
R.  Lehtinen  is  with  the  Boeing  Co.  at  Cape 
Kennedy.  Charlie  was  the  individual  as- 
signed the  task  of  pushing  the  button  that 
ignited  the  Saturn  rocket  which  sent  the 
Apollo  II  astronauts  on  their  way  to  the 
moon.  He  says,  "I  also  pushed  the  buttons 
launching  Apollos  6  and  9  and  will  be  doing 
it  for  Number  13".  .  Joseph  P.  Carpentiere 
is  an  account  representative  for  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Meriden,  Conn.  He  lives  in 
Clinton,  Conn.  .  .  The  High  Energy  Physics 
Div.  of  Argonne  (III.)  National  Laboratory 


44 


THE   JOURNAL 


has  Arthur  F.  Greene  as  a  research  associ- 
ate. .  .  David  M.  Raab  writes:  "I  received  an 
MS  degree  in  E.E.  from  Northeastern  in 
1966.  Following  that,  I  toured  Europe  for 
about  a  year  and  in  1968  took  my  'last 
trip  down  the  aisle.  I  now  have  a  baby 
daughter,  Sarah,  and  a  house  in  Belmont, 
Mass.  .  .  Lt.  Norbert  F.  Toczko  is  stationed 
in  Washington,  D.C.  at  Coast  Guard  Head- 
quarters and  is  Chief  of  the  Family  Housing 
Section.  .  .  General  Electric  Co.  employs 
Frank  A.  Verprauskus  in  its  Nuclear  Energy 
Div.  in  San  Jose,  Calif.  .  .  Robert  A.  Weiss  is 
an  inventory  product  coordinator  for  Polar- 
oid Corp.  in  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  Kenneth  J. 
Blanchard  now  makes  his  home  in  Sacra- 
mento, Calif.  He  is  employed  as  an  assistant 
bridge  engineer  by  the  California  Div.  of 
Highways.  He  writes:  "My  C.E.  colleagues  in 
the  East  might  be  interested  in  knowing  that 
a  majority  of  our  projects  utilize  the 
theories  of  prestressed  concrete." 

1962 

The  appointment  of  Roland  J.  Beaure- 
gard as  supervisor  of  engineering  services  has 
been  announced  by  Norton  Co.'s  Machine 
Tool  Div.  in  Worcester.  .  .  Jerald  N.  Hamer- 
nick  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Torin  Corp.  in 
Farmington,  Mich.  .  .  David  N.  Lyons  is  an 
Assistant  Sanitary  Engineer  for  the  State  of 
New  York  Health  Dept.  at  Albany.  .  .  Roger 
G.  Massey  is  now  with  the  Parker  and 
Harper  Manufacturing  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Stanley  Works  in  Newark,  N.J.  has  John  C. 
Robertson  as  their  chief  manufacturing  engi- 
neer. .  .  Stanley  J.  Strychaz,  Jr.  reports  that 
he  recently  joined  the  American  Appraisal 
Co.  in  Milwaukee,  Wise.  .  .  Barry  J. 
Dworman  is  an  account  representative  for 
General  Electric  Co.  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  . 
Paul  F.  Gelinas  reports  that  he  is  now 
vice-president  in  charge  of  production  for 
Hunter  Sportswear,  Inc.  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  .  .  George  E.  Loomis  is  an  assistant 
engineer  for  Turner  Construction  Co.  in 
Boston,  Mass.  He  resides  in  Wakefield.  .  . 
Peter  C.  Albertini  was  the  1969  Community 
Chairman  for  the  town  of  Dover  in  the 
Massachusetts  Bay  United  Fund  campaign. 
Peter  is  a  marketing  specialist  for  Honey- 
well, Inc.  in  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  Robert  R. 
Cassanelli  writes:  "I  am  a  senior  food 
chemist  working  in  new  product  develop- 
ment at  General  Foods  Corp.,  Tarrytown, 
N.Y.".  .  .  Paul  E.  Engstrom  has  been  ap- 
pointed assistant  actuary,  mathematical 
department,  and  an  officer  of  State  Mutual 
Life  Assurance  Co.  of  America,  located  in 
Worcester.  .  .  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.  employs 
Bartlett  D.  Fowler  in  Washingtonville,  Pa.  as 
an  office  engineer.  .  .  David  P.  Norton  re- 
ceived his  MBA  from  Florida  State  Univer- 
sity last  year  and  is  presently  attending 
Harvard   Business  School.  .  .  John  M.   Sam- 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01B05 


Class  of  1930 
40th  Reunion 

Worcester  Country  Club 
June  5, 1970 

(Please  note  the  date.    It  was  incorrectly  stated  in  the  Fall 
Journal  as  June  4,  1970.) 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  .  . 

Perhaps  you  cant  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $31.00 

• 

No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21"  •  ^      ljn  214 

Price:  $44.00     (Black  Arms)  COLLEGE  BOSTON   ROCKER 

No.  342  218  Seat  to  top  of  back:  27  H" 

Price:  $45.00     (Cherry  Arms)  Price:  $40.00 

Send  your  remittance  and  make  checks  payable  to 

V.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

411  chairs  shipped  express  prepaid  to  points  within  125  miles  of  Gardner,  Mass. 

For  all  other  points,  deduct  S4.00  from  prices  for  express  collect  shipment. 


fHE  JOURNAL 


45 


borski  has  been  promoted  to  assistant  super- 
intendent of  the  bicarb-Purecal  department 
at  Wyandotte  Chemicals  Corp.,  Wyandotte, 
Mich.  John  has  been  with  the  company 
since  1964,  and  he  now  makes  his  home  in 
Riverview,  Mich.  .  .  Dr.  John  K.  Tien  re- 
ceived his  PhD  degree  from  Carnegie-Mellon 
University  in  June  of  1969.  His  major  was  in 
Metallurgy  and  Materials  Science.  .  .Joel  N. 
Freedman  is  now  employed  as  a  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  The  Mitre  Corp., 
Bedford,  Mass. 


1963 

Capt.  Richard  B.  Alien  received  the 
Army's  Bronze  Star  Medal  for  "outstanding 
meritorious  service  while  serving  in  Viet- 
nam." He  is  now  stationed  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. .  .  Stanley  J.  Belcinski,  Jr.  has  been 
named  production  manager  for  Massa- 
chusetts Steel  Treating  Corp.,  subsidiary  of 
PresMet  Corp.  in  Worcester.  .  .  Robert  E. 
Maynard,  Jr.  is  attending  Dartmouth  Col- 
lege's Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business  Ad- 
ministration .  .  .  Dr.  Kenneth  C.  Benton  is  a 
senior  research  chemist  for  Copolymer  Rub- 
ber &  Chemical  Corp.  in  Baton  Rouge, 
La.  .  .  Edward  A.  Platow  has  received  a 
Master  of  Management  Science  degree  from 
Stevens  Institute  of  Technology  and  is 
employed  by  Western  Electric  Co.  in  Prince- 
ton, N.J.  .  .  Robert  M.  Desmond  has  re- 
turned to  WPI  as  an  assistant  professor  in 
the  mechanical  engineering  department.  Bob 
received  his  PhD  degree  from  the  University 
of  Minnesota  in  1968,  and  he  was  on  the 
staff  at  Clarkson  College,  Potsdam,  N.Y., 
before  returning  to  Worcester.  .  .  The 
Badger  Co.,  Inc.  employs  Roger  D.  Flood  as 
a  project  manager  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Roger  resides  in  Needham.  .  .  Robert  J. 
Hermes,  SIM,  has  been  named  Sales  Manager 
for  the  Rolling  Mill  Dept.  of  Morgan  Con- 
struction Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  Dr.  Stephen  W. 
Nagy  is  an  assistant  professor  in  the  physics 
department  at  the  University  of  Ver- 
mont. .  .  Joseph  R.  Santosuosso  is  a  thermal 
design  and  analysis  engineer  for  General 
Electric  Co.,  Information  Systems  Div., 
Phoenix,  Ariz. 


1964 
Married:  Adam  S.  Kochanek  to  Miss 
Crete  M.  Liadrakis  of  Chicopee,  Mass.,  on 
June  22,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was 
Lawrence  M.  Krasner.  Stan  received  a  BS  in 
ME.  from  WPI  last  June  to  add  to  the  one 
he  earned  in  Math  in  '64.  He  is  employed  by 
Banner  Machine,  Inc.,  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  .  .  Thomas  G.  McGee  to  Miss  Sandra 
Clark  Litchfield  of  Barre,  Vt..  on  August  29, 
1969.  Tom  received  his  master's  degree  in 
business  administration  from  Harvard  Busi 


ness  School  last  June.  .  .  Robert  E.  Parker  to 
Miss  Jeanne  Marguerite  Gravel  of  Black- 
stone,  Mass.,  on  September  1,  1969.  Bob  is 
Senior  Materials  Engineer  for  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  . 
Walter  F.  Roach  to  Miss  Kristin  Wakefield 
of  Londonderry,  N.H.,  on  July  12,  1969. 
The  best  man  was  Dennis  W.  Balog,  and  one 
of  the  ushers  was  Thomas  B.  Newman,  Jr. 
Walt  is  an  engineer  with  Sylvania  Lighting 
Corp.  in  Manchester,  N.H. 

Allen  W.  Case,  Jr.,  is  back  at  Tech 
as  a  graduate  assistant  in  the  E.E. 
Dept.  .  .  David  A.  Helming  is  a  District 
Engineer  for  Public  Service  Electric  and 
Gas  Co.  in  Plainfield,  N.J.  "The  Moose" 
lives  in  White  House  Station,  N.J.  .  .  Bruce 
A.  Ochieano  is  employed  by  Arthur  Ander- 
sen &  Co.  in  San  Francisco  as  a  management 
consultant.  .  .  Capt.  W.  Charles  Zisch  is  sta- 
tioned at  Vandenburg  AFB,  Calif.  .  .  David 
L.  Gendron  is  a  chemical  engineer  with 
Monsanto  Co.  in  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  . 
Bell  Telephone  Labs,  Holmdel,  N.J.,  em- 
ploys Joseph  L.  LaCava  as  a  member, 
technical  staff.  Joe  makes  his  home  in 
Marlboro,  N.J. 

1965 

Married:  Patrick  T.  Moran  to  Miss  Mimi 
Moylan  of  Hammond,  Ind.  in  June,  1969. 
At  the  wedding  were  Stanley  Szymanski, 
'64,  David  D.  McCaffrey,  '64,  John  D. 
Camera,  Jr.,  '64,  Bradley  T.  Gale,  '64, 
Victor  A.  Maroni,  '64,  Joseph  Gracia,  Jr.. 
John  T.  Hart,  James  F.  Fee,  and  Eugene  R. 
Dionne,  '66.  Pat  received  his  MS  in  indus- 
trial engineering  from  Purdue  in  June  and 
now  lives  and  works  in  Kingston,  N.Y., 
where  he  is  an  industrial  engineer  for  IBM 
Corp. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  S. 
Frary,  III,  their  first  child  and  daughter, 
Kathryn  Beth,  in  May,  1969.  Chuck  has 
been  appointed  New  England  Telephone 
manager  in  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  To  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Marvin  S.  Berger,  a  son,  Jonathan 
Mark,  on  October  8,  1969.  Marv  is  a  student 
at  the  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business 
Administration  at  Dartmouth  College. 

1966 

Married:  Anthony  S.  Carrara  to  Miss 
Pamela  Doucet  of  Manchester,  N.H.,  on 
August  23,  1969.  Tony,  who  holds  an  MS 
from  M.I.T.,  is  a  civil  engineer  with  Ray- 
theon in  Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  Chester  J.  Patch, 
III,  to  Miss  Patricia  Marion  Richards  of 
Wakefield,  Mass.,  on  June  28,  1969.  .  . 
Ronald  C.  Snell  to  Miss  Judith  M.  McKinley 
of  Winchester,  Mass.,  on  August  2,  I969. 
Donald  J.  Pearson  was  best  man.  Ron  is  an 
electrical  engineer  with  Polaroid  Corp.  in 
Waltham,  Mass,  .  .  Gerard  A.  Toupin  to  Miss 
Annette  M.  Doucette  of  Tornngton,  Conn., 


on  August  23,  1969.  His  best  man  was 
Charles  C.  Slama.  Gerard  is  an  engineer  in 
the  bearings  division  of  Torrington  Co., 
Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  Roger  J.  Zipfel  to 
Miss  Joyce  Ann  Kenyon  of  Wilmington,  Del. 
on  October  11,  1969.  Roger  is  an  engineer 
with  E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  in 
Deepwater,  N.J. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lawrence  A. 
Penoncello,  their  first  child,  a  son,  Scott 
Louis.  Larry  is  a  foreman  for  Torrington 
Co.,  Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  To  Lt.  j.g.  and 
Mrs.  James  A.  Cocci,  a  son,  James  John,  on 
October  3,  I969.  Jim  is  stationed  at  the 
Naval  Security  Station  in  Washington, 
D.C.  .  .  To  Lt.  j.g.  and  Mrs.  Peter  J.  Kudless, 
their  first  son,  Christopher  John,  on  Octo- 
ber 16,  I969.  Peter  is  presently  the  Resident 
Officer  in  Charge  of  Construction  in  the  Can 
Tho-Binh  Thuy  area  in  Vietnam.  He  expects 
to  return  to  the  states  in  February,  1970. 

Peter  F.  Behmke  is  a  design  engineer  for 
Hoyt  Mfg.  Corp.  in  Westport,  Mass.  Peter 
lives  in  Swansea.  .  .  Dr.  Jerry  Chih-li  Ch'en, 
MS,  is  an  Assistant  Professor  in  the  Dept.  of 
Physical  Sciences  at  Pan  American  College 
in  Edinburg,  Texas.  .  .  Ecological  Research 
Corp.  in  Hanover,  N.H.,  employs  Francis  X. 
Dolan,  Jr.  as  a  research  engineer.  Fran  lives 
in  Norwich,  Vt.  .  .  Albert  L.  Giannotti,  Jr.  is 
a  graduate  student  at  the  University  of 
Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  We  have  been  informed 
that  James  A.  Keith  is  a  Senior  Design 
Engineer  for  Sanders  Associates,  Inc.  in 
Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  James  W.  Pierce  is  a  staff 
scientist  for  MIT's  Lincoln  Labs  in  Lexing- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  Monsanto  Co.  in  Indian  Or- 
chard, Mass.  has  Donald  C.  Sundberg  as  a 
Senior  Chemical  Engineer.  .  .  Ronald  W. 
Wood  has  taken  a  job  as  Senior  Marine 
Engineer  with  Litton  Systems,  Advance 
Marine  Technology  Div.,  in  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.  .  .  Dr.  John  J.  Wright  is  doing  post- 
doctoral research  at  the  University  of  Colo- 
rado. .  .  Lt.  William  E.  Zetterlund  is  the 
officer  in  charge  of  construction  for  the 
U.S.  Naval  radio  station.  .  .  Capt.  William  F. 
Shields  is  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  4th 
Tactical  Fighter  Wing,  Seymour  Johnson 
AFB,  N.C.  .  .  Eugene  G.  Sweeney,  Jr.  is  a 
sales  engineer  for  Dow  Chemical  Co..  Dow 
Industrial  Service  Div.,  in  Stoneham, 
Mass.  .  .  Philip  I.  Bachelder  is  now  employed 
by  Plastic  Coating  Corp.,  S.  Hadley,  Mass., 
as  a  senior  research  project  engineer.  .  .  Lt. 
Robert  H.  Cahill  is  currently  stationed  in 
Norfolk,  Va.  and  is  an  admiral's  aide  in  the 
Naval  Civil  Engineering  Corps.  Bob  has 
made  three  Southeast  Asian  tours  and  has 
received  five  medals,  including  the  Purple 
Heart  and  the  Navy  Commendation  with  a 
combat  "V".  .  .  Robert  H.  Jacoby  has  been 
promoted  to  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air 
Force.  He  is  presently  on  duty  at  Cam  Rahn 
Bay,  Vietnam  and  is  an  aircraft  maintenance 


46 


officer.  .  .Joseph  J.  Osvald  writes:  "In  June, 
1969,  I  received  my  Master's  Degree  in 
Systems  Science  from  the  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute of  Brooklyn  (N.Y.).  I  am  still  employed 
at  the  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Laboratory  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  as  a  technical  team 
leader.".  .  .  Other  members  of  the  class  who 
are  in  the  Armed  Forces  are:  Air  Force 
Capt.  Francis  J.  Pinhack,  Jr.,  presently 
stationed  at  Otis  AFB,  Mass.  and  the  recip- 
ient of  three  Distinguished  Flying  Crosses; 
Army  Capt.  John  M.  Porter;  and  Navy  Lt. 
Francis  X.  Watson  who  is  presently  sta- 
tioned in  Saigon  with  the  Navy  Corps  of 
Engineers  and  who  anticipates  receiving  his 
PhD  degree  in  soils  from  Georgia  Tech  very 
shortly.  .  .  Richard  K.  Seaver  is  a  senior 
experimental  engineer  with  Hamilton  Stand- 
ard in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  John  J. 
Vytal  is  a  research  engineer  at  General 
Telephone  &  Electronics  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  Navy  Lt.  John  F.  Kelley,  III,  is  now 
stationed  in  Washington,  D.C.  as  a  member 
of  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps. 

Russell  W.  Morey  has  accepted  a  position 
as  an  industrial  engineer  with  Honeywell,  Inc. 
in  Lawrence,  Mass.  .  .  Bechtel  Corp.  of  San 
Francisco  reports  that  Charles  W.  Pike  is 
now  a  design  engineer  for  them.  .  .  Stuart  R. 
Roselle  is  an  engineer  with  Union  Camp 
Corp.  in  Savannah,  Ga.  .  .  Robert  E.  Shaw  is 
in  Worcester  working  as  a  research  engineer 
for  Norton  Co.  .  .  2/Lt.  Robert  W.  Trefry  is 
stationed  at  Lowry  AFB,  Colo.  .  .  Capt. 
David  E.  Wilson  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
Saigon.  .  .  Robert  S.  Sternschein  is  a  man- 
agement trainee  with  General  Electric  Co.  in 
Erie,  Pa.  Bob  plans  to  receive  an  MS  degree 
in  Industrial  Engineering  from  Northeastern 
in  June,  1970.  .  .  Bertis  H.  Adams,  III  is  a 
design  engineer  for  Charles  T.  Main,  Inc.  in 
Boston,  Mass.  .  .  Fred  T.  Erskine,  III,  MS,  is 
an  instructor  at  Cushing  Academy  in  Ash- 
burnham,  Mass.  .  .  Teradyne,  Inc.  of  Boston 
employs  Alan  P.  George  as  an  applications 
engineer.  .  .  Richard  B.  Leon  received  his 
master's  degree  from  WPI  in  June  of  1969 
and  is  presently  employed  by  Eastman 
Kodak  Co.  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  as  a  process 
engineer.  .  .  Also  a  process  engineer  is  Rich- 
ard W.  Mason.  He  is  employed  by  Corning 
Glass  Works  in  Medfield,  Mass.  .  .  John  K. 
Wright  is  a  sales  representative  for  Stauffer 
Chemical  Co.  in  New  York  City.  J.K.  lives  in 
New  Canaan,  Conn.  .  .  Ernest  J.  Kunz,  Jr.  is 
an  industrial  salesman  for  Humble  Oil  Co. 
He  lives  in  N.  Kingston,  R.I.  .  .  1/Lt.  Earl  C. 
Sparks,  III,  is  a  staff  officer  with  the  Army's 
Combat  Development  Command  —  Institute 
of  Land  Combat  in  Alexandria,  Va.  .  .  Ens. 
Malcolm  C.  White,  Jr.,  is  stationed  aboard 
the  Naval  ship,  USS  Massey.  .  .  1/Lt.  Robert 
D.  Wilson  is  stationed  in  Gelnhausen,  Ger- 
many, working  as  an  Army  Technical  Sup- 
ply Officer. 


1967 

Married:  John  C.  Boutet  to  Miss  Jane 
Ann  Chad  of  Leicester,  Mass.,  on  June  21, 
1969.  John,  who  also  holds  an  MS  from 
M.I.T.,  is  with  Eastman  Kodak  in  Rochester, 
N.Y.  .  .John  B.  Feldman  to  Miss  Sharon 
Lois  Sinel  of  Brighton,  Mass.,  recently.  John 
received  his  MS  from  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  and  is  employed  by  the  Air- 
craft Engine  Div.  of  General  Electric  in 
Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  Dana  C.  Finlayson  to  Miss 
Cynthia  Jacoby  of  W.  Falmouth,  Mass.,  on 
June  7,  1969.  Dana  has  his  own  private 
alumni  association  composed  of  his  father, 
Frank  S.,  '31,  his  two  uncles,  Kenneth  M., 
'27,  and  Robert  K.,  '34,  and  his  brother, 
David  F.,  '61.  Dana's  employer  is  Hewlett- 
Packard  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  Arnold  R. 
Miller  to  Miss  Freyda  Nancy  Greenberg  of 
Quincy,  Mass.,  on  August  31,  I969.  Mitchell 
P.  Koziol  was  among  the  ushers.  Arnold  is 
an  electronics  engineer  with  Bliss-Eagle 
Signal  Co.  in  Davenport,  Iowa.  .  .  Joseph  M. 
Archambeault  to  Miss  Gail  A.  Ciak  of 
Webster,  Mass.,  on  August  30,  1969.  Francis 
P.  Archambeault,  '69,  was  his  brother's  best 
man.  Joe  is  presently  a  graduate  student  in 
the  E.E.  Dept.  at  WPI.  .  .  Bradford  A.  John- 
son to  Miss  Judy  Ann  Hosley  of  Long  Lake, 
N.Y.  on  August  24,  1969.  Since  graduation. 
Brad  has  received  a  master  of  engineering 
degree  from  the  University  of  Akron  (Ohio), 
and  he  is  currently  employed  as  an  aero- 
mechanical  R&D  engineer  by  Goodyear 
Aerospace  Corp.,   Akron,  Ohio. 

John  L.  Kilguss  is  a  mathematician  with 
Bell  Telephone  Labs  in  Denver,  Colo.  He 
makes  his  home  in  Boulder.  .  .  Rene  B.  La- 
Pierre  has  been  commissioned  a  second  lieu- 
tenant in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  He  has  been 
assigned  to  Mather  AFB,  Calif.,  for  navigator 
training.  .  .  Warren  L.  Clark  is  a  graduate 
student  in  the  physics  department  at  WPI.  .  . 
Carmen  M.  Delia  Vecchia  has  been  promoted 
to  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 
Carmen  is  an  electronics  engineer  at  Kelly 
AFB,  Texas.  .  .  Bhoopen  K.  Kurani,  MS,  is 
employed  by  Sumner  Schein  Architect  in 
Boston  as  a  design  engineer.  .  .  Springfield 
(Mass.)  Technical  Community  College  has 
appointed  Stephen  J.  Lak,  Jr.,  MS,  a  me- 
chanical technology  instructor.  .  .  1/Lt. 
Richard  A.  Symonds,  USA,  is  stationed  in 
Vietnam.  .  .  The  Badger  Co.,  Inc.  employs 
William  E.  Tanzer  as  a  project  engineer  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  Robert  V.  D'Elia  is  a 
hose  designer  for  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.  in  Akron,  Ohio.  .  .  Raymond  J.  Fortin, 
who  received  a  master's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  last  year,  is 
presently  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at 
The  Mitre  Corp.,  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  William 
W.  Goudie  remains  with  E.  I.  duPont  deNe- 
mours  &  Co.,  Inc.,  but  he  is  now  working  in 
Linden,     N.J.     at     the    Grasselli    Plant.  .  . 


Clinton  A.  Inglee  is  a  sales  engineer  for  the 
Torrington  Co.  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  Ken- 
neth H.  Rex,  who  received  his  master's 
degree  in  astronomy  from  RPI  last  year,  still 
remains  at  RPI  and  is  doing  further  graduate 
work.  .  .  Raymond  C.  Rogers  is  a  member  of 
the  industrial  engineering  staff  at  Texas 
Instruments,  Inc.  in  Attleboro,  Mass.  Ray 
received  a  master's  degree  from  North- 
eastern University  last  year  in  industrial 
engineering.  .  .  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Roch- 
ester, N.Y.,  has  Matthew  R.  Sinasky,  MS,  as 
an  applications  analyst.  .  .  John  E.  Sonne  is 
a  technical  assistant  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  Hospital  in  Philadelphia.  John 
received  a  master's  degree  in  biomedical 
engineering  from  Drexel  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology in  June  of  1969.  .  .  Peter  N.  Formica 
is  a  research  associate  in  the  Regional 
Planning  Div.  of  Travelers  Research  Corp.  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Joel  B.  Kameron  is  an 
instructor  of  psychology  at  Paterson  State 
College  in  Wayne,  N.J.  .  .  1/Lt.  John  E. 
Rogozenski,  Jr.,  wrote  us  the  following  in 
November,  1969:  "Finishing  up  my  tour 
with  the  U.S.  Army  in  January,  1970.  I  am 
then  heading  back  to  UMass  graduate  school 
to  get  an  MS  degree  in  industrial 
engineering." 

1968 

Married:  Ens.  Alan  J.  Blanchard  to  Miss 
Donna  Marie  Portelance  of  Sutton,  Mass., 
on  July  19,  1969.  The  best  man  was 
Raymond  F.  Racine,  and  David  A.  Swercew- 
ski  was  one  of  the  ushers.  The  couple  will 
live  in  Washington,  D.C.,  where  Alan  is 
stationed  at  the  Naval  Observatory.  .  . 
Edward  H.  Borgeson  to  Miss  Trudy  Carol 
Hood  of  Wakefield,  Mass.,  on  June  28,  I969. 
Ed  is  employed  by  Raytheon  Corp.  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  Jeffrey  A.  Decker  to  Miss 
Elsie  Marie  Brennan  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
June  15,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  were 
Frederick  G.  Thumm,  '67,  Paul  F.  McDon- 
agh,  '67,  James  L.  Viele,  '67,  and  Jeffrey  C. 
Knapp,  '69.  Jeff  is  presently  on  duty  as  a 
2nd  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  at  Fort  Sill, 
Okla.  .  .  George  K.  Fairbanks  to  Miss  Bar- 
bara Jean  Connal  of  Brewster,  N.Y.,  on 
August  30,  1969.  George  is  an  electrical 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford, 
Conn.  .  .  William  J.  Giokas  to  Miss  Linda 
Louise  Pikula  of  Chicopee,  Mass.,  on  July 
12,  1969.  Andrew  J.  Giokas,  '70,  was  his 
brother's  best  man,  and  one  of  the  ushers 
was  Eugene  L.  Murphy.  Bill  is  a  law  student 
at  Western  New  England  College  and  teaches 
math  at  Enfield  (Conn.)  High  School.  .  . 
Francis  W.  Maher,  Jr.  to  Miss  Judith  Fitz- 
gerald of  Hartford,  Conn.,  on  August  5, 
1969.  Bruce  G.  Lovelace  was  the  best  man, 
and  one  of  the  ushers  was  Richard  A. 
Symonds,  '67.  Frank  is  an  electrical  engi- 
neer with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Div.  of  United 


IE  JOURNAL 


47 


Aircraft  Corp.  in  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Lt. 
Michael  A.  Sills,  U.S.A.,  to  Miss  Claire 
Regina  Morris  of  Hamden,  Conn.,  on  July 
12,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  were  Roger  P. 
Sepso  and  Edward  B.  Pero,  '66.  Mike  is  an 
instructor  in  missile  engineering  at  Ft.  Bliss, 
Tex.  .  .  James  F.  Sinnamon  to  Miss  Cath- 
erine A.  Dawson  of  Methuen,  Mass.,  on 
August  23,  1969.  Rafik  E.  Kathiwalla  was 
best  man.  .  .  Lt.  Michael  J.  True,  U.S.A.,  to 
Miss  Eleanor  Victoria  Pekar  of  Hamden, 
Conn.,  on  July  12,  1969.  Among  the  ushers 
were  Jack  S.  Siegel  and  Gregory  F.  Wirz- 
bicki.  .  .  Harold  T.  Gentile  to  Miss  Kathleen 
M.  Eldridge  of  Chatham  Port,  Mass.,  in  June 
of  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was  Cameron  P. 
Boyd,  '69.  Harold  is  employed  by  Jackson 
and  Moreland,  Inc.  in  Boston,  and  he  is 
working  toward  a  master's  degree  at  North- 
eastern University.  .  .  Robert  J.  Collette  to 
Miss  Diane  M.  Gilmartin  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  on  August  3,  1969.  Bob  is  a  burner 
and  fuel  engineer  for  Combustion,  Engi- 
neering, Inc.  in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  Lt.  Ron- 
ald D.  Rehkamp  to  Miss  Susan  Ann  Slager 
of  Oakville,  Conn,  on  August  24,  1969. 
John  C.  De  Meo  was  best  man.  .  .  Richard  J. 
Scaia  to  Miss  Linda  Anne  Hudak  of  Torring- 
ton.  Conn,  on  October  25,  I969. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ronald  E.  Jodoin, 
a  son,  Jeffrey  Charles,  on  March  29,  1969. 
Ron  is  a  graduate  student  in  the  department 
of  physics  and  astronomy  at  the  University 
of  Rochester  (N.Y.). 

George  F.  Gamache  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  civil  engineering  department  at 
Tech.  .  .Joseph  F.  Hilyard  is  employed  by 
the  Hamilton  Standard  Div.  of  United  Air- 
craft Corp.  as  a  Systems  Engineer.  .  .  Walter 
C.  Lynick  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Lai  Khe, 
Vietnam,  and  is  serving  as  an  engineering 
equipment  repairman.  .  .  The  Naval  Air  Engi- 
neering Center,  Ground  Support  Equipment 
Dept.,  in  Philadelphia  has  David  R.  Martin  as 
a  mechanical  engineer.  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  Peter  F.  McKittrick  is  an  engineer  with 
Raytheon  Co.  in  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  Joseph  L. 
Paquette  has  been  transferred  by  the  Dravo 
Corp.  to  Tampa,  Fla.,  where  he  is  an  opera- 
tions engineer.  .  .  Jeffrey  E.  Shaw  remains 
with  Western  Electric  Co.,  but  he  is  now 
working  in  Princeton,  N.J.  and  living  in  Cran- 
bury..  .  George  R.  Skog/und  is  a  graduate 
student  at  Colorado  State  Univ.  in  Ft. 
Collins,  Colo.  .  .  Francis  L.  Addessio  re- 
ceived  an  MS  degree  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering from  Stanford  University  in  August, 
1969.  He  is  now  employed  as  a  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs  in 
Whippany,  N.J.  .  .  David  E.  Andersen  is  a 
second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  and  is 
stationed  at  Fort  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  2/Lt. 
Robert  H.  deFlesco.  Jr.  writes:  "On  August 
8,  1969,  I  received  my  master's  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  Purdue  Univer- 


sity. I  am  currently  attending  the  Field 
Artillery  Officer  Basic  Course  at  Fort  Sill, 
Okla.  On  January  29,  1970,  I  will  leave  for 
South  Vietnam.".  .  .  2/Lt.  Robert  J.  Gallo  is 
stationed  in  Hawaii  with  the  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers.  He  is  assigned  to  Hickam  Air 
Force  Base  as  an  assistant  project  engi- 
neer. .  .  Other  members  of  the  class  in  the 
service  are:  Airman  Charles  A.  Griffin  (at 
Barksdale  AFB,  La.  with  the  Strategic  Air 
Command);  Army  PFC  Stephen  M.  Holub 
(with  the  Military  Police  at  Fort  Dix,  N.J.); 
and  Army  1/Lt.  Robert  Meader  (in  Viet- 
nam). .  .  Philip  A.  Mattson  is  currently  at 
Officer's  Candidate  School  in  Newport, 
R.I.  .  .  Donald  B.  Holden  is  a  staff  engineer 
for  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co.  in  N. 
Chicago,  III.  .  .  Michael  R.  Latina  is  a  grad- 
uate student  at  Brown  University  in  Provi- 
dence, R.I...  J.  Kevin  Sullivan  is  a  sales 
engineer  for  The  Torrington  Co.,  Torring- 
ton.  Conn.  .  .  Ens.  John  M.  Burns  has 
recently  attended  the  Navy's  Civil  Engi- 
neering Corps  Officer  School  in  Port 
Hueneme,  Calif.  .  .  Victor  V.  Calabretta,  Jr. 
has  recently  attended  Officer  Candidate 
School  in  Newport,  R.I.  .  .  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.  employs  William  E.  Catterall, 
Jr.  in  their  Aerospace  Div.  in  Baltimore,  Md. 
as  an  associate  engineer.  .  .  Army  2/Lt. 
Bruce  A.  Denson  has  been  assigned  to  Fort 
Leonard  Wood,  Mo.  He  was  employed  by 
the  Oxford  (Mass.)  Public  School  System 
before  entering  the  service.  .  .  Robert  D. 
Hickey  is  a  programming  analyst  for  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Phoenix,  Ariz.  .  .  Army  2/Lt. 
Chester  J.  Kasper  is  currently  stationed  in 
Germany.  .  .  Also  in  the  Army  is  2/Lt. 
Russell  B.  Snyder.  He  is  stationed  at  Fire 
Island,  Alaska.  .  .  Dr.  Roger  L.  Ludin,  MS,  is 
doing  post-doctoral  research  work  at 
WPI.  .  .  David  F.  Moore  has  accepted  a 
position  as  a  salesman  with  Shell  Oil  Co.  in 
Boston.  .  .  Wayne  L.  Pierce  is  employed  by 
Esso  Research  &  Development  Co.  in 
Florham  Park,  N.J.  as  an  engineer.  .  .  Roger 
P.  Sepso  is  a  design  engineer  for  Sikorsky 
Aircraft  in  Stratford,  Conn. 


1969 

Married:  Gregory  B.  Enz  to  Miss  Linda 
Diane  Charlesworth  of  S.  Attleboro,  Mass. 
on  August  30,  1969.  Stephen  O.  Rogers  was 
an  usher.  Greg  is  employed  by  the  New 
England  Telephone  Co.  in  Boston.  .  .  Joseph 
A.  Senecal  to  Miss  Linda  M.  Renzi  of 
Marlboro,  Mass.  on  August  16,  1969. 
Among  the  ushers  was  Jerry  L.  Johnson. 
They  are  living  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif,  while  Joe 
attends  graduate  school  at  Stanford  Univer- 
sity. .  .  Richard  H.  Gurske  to  Miss  Andrea 
Leigh  Herrmann  of  W.  Boylston,  Mass.  on 
June  7.  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was  Henry 
E.    McGuire,   '68.    Rick    is   employed   as  a 


sanitary  engineering  assistant  by  the  City  of 
Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  Charles  F.  Robinson 
to  Miss  Janet  Elaine  MiHer  of  Franklin, 
Mass.  on  July  26,  1969.  He  is  employed  as 
an  engineering  service  specialist  by  The 
Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass.  They  are 
making  their  home  in  N.  Attleboro,  Mass. 

Dr.  David  W.  Clark,  PhD,  is  a  senior 
research  chemist  for  General  Motors  Corp. 
in  Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  .  Riegel  Paper  Corp., 
Riegelwood,  N.C.,  employs  two  members  of 
the  class,  Ralph  N.  demons  and  Raymond 
H.  Barrows.  They  are  members  of  the 
Technical  Service  group  in  the  Technical 
Dept.,  and  they  both  live  in  Wilmington, 
N.C.  .  .  Stephen  D.  Cope,  Jr.  has  accepted  a 
field  engineering  position  in  the  Installation 
and  Service  Engineering  Dept.  of  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  We 
have  been  informed  that  John  B.  Czajkow- 
ski  is  a  test  engineer  for  Colt  Industries, 
Inc.,  in  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Ralph  J. 
Eschborn,  II,  is  an  engineer  with  E.  I. 
duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  in  Antioch, 
Calif.  .  .  Raytheon  Co.  Radar  Systems  Sec- 
tion in  Bedford,  Mass.  employs  Michael  M. 
Hart  as  an  associate  engineer.  .  .  Roy  C. 
Johnson,  Jr.,  MS,  is  a  graduate  fellow  in  the 
department  of  civil  engineering  at  Rice 
University  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  Another 
member  of  the  class  attending  graduate 
school  is  Robert  P.  Kusy.  He  is  enrolled  in 
the  metallurgy  department  of  Drexel  Insti- 
tute of  Technology  in  Philadelphia, 
Pa.  .  .John  Hancock  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Co.  in  Boston  employs  Stephen  H. 
Legomsky  as  an  actuarial  assistant.  .  . 
Bhupendra  A.  Parikh,  MS,  is  in  Cleveland, 
Ohio  working  as  a  design  engineer  for  C.  A. 
Litzler  Co.,  Inc.  .  .  Stephen  E.  Platz  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  computer  science 
department  at  WPI.  .  .  We  have  learned  that 
Stephen  O.  Rogers  is  employed  by  E.  I. 
duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  in 
Gibbstown,  N.J.  Steve  lives  in  Glassboro, 
N.J.  .  .  Pvt.  Robert  J.  Scott  is  stationed  at 
Fort  Dix,  N.J.  .  .  Michael  J.  Cohen  is  a 
mathematics  teacher  in  the  Ellington 
(Conn.)  School  System.  .  .  Michael  Gan  is  a 
mechanical  design  engineer  for  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  . 
MIT's  Civil  Engineering  dept.  has  Edward  A. 
Mierzejewski  as  a  research  assistant.  .  .  We 
have  learned  that  Alvin  B.  Pauly  is  a  project 
engineer  for  Westvaco  Corp.,  Luke, 
Md.  .  .  Daniel  C.  Pond  is  an  associate  engi- 
neer in  the  applied  physics  lab  at  Johns 
Hopkins  University  in  Silver  Spring,  Md. 
Also  employed  in  the  same  lab  is  Donald  L. 
Sharp.  .  .  Paul  S.  Wolf  is  working  (or  the 
Washington,  D.C.  Dept.  of  Highways  and 
Traffic  in  their  tralfic  engineering  and  oper- 
ations division.  .  .  Joseph  Woo-Tien  Wu.  MS. 
is  now  in  the  chemistry  department  at  the 
University   of  Pennsylvania  in  Philadelphia. 


JR 


THE    JO 


URNAll- 


REUNION  WEEKEND 
JUNE  6-7,  1970 

Reunion  Day -Saturday,  June  6 

Commencement -Sunday,  June  7 


Classes  Holding  Reunions 


1911 
1912 
1913 
1920 
1925 
1930 
1935 


1940 
1945 
1954 
1955 
1956 
1957 
1958 


WHY  NOT  PLAN 
NOW  TO 
ATTEND? 


SPRING  ATHLETIC  SCHEDULES 

VARSITY  BASEBALL 

VARSITY  TENNIS 

April 

11 

M.I.T.  (doubleheader) 

A 

1:00  p.m. 

April 

11 

R.P.I. 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

15 

Northeastern 

A 

3:00  p.m. 

16 

Assumption 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

18 

Assumption 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

18 

Bentley 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

21 

Suffolk 

H 

3:00  p.m. 

22 

Holy  Cross 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

25 

Coast  Guard 

H 

1:00  p.m. 

25 

Babson 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

30 

Tufts 

A 

3:00  p.m. 

May 

2 

Coast  Guard 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

May 

2 

Brandeis 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

5 

Clark 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

7 

Hartford  U. 

H 

3:00  p.m. 

11 

A. I.C. 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

9 

Trinity 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

13 

Lowell 

A 

3:00  p.m. 

11 

Clark 

H 

3:30  p.m. 

FRESHMAN  TENNIS 

13 
16 

Lowell 
A. I.C. 

H 
H 

3:30  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

April 

15 
24 
30 

Leicester  Jr.  College 
Dean  Jr.  College 
Worcester  Jr.  College 

H 
H 
H 

2:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

VARSITY  TRACK 

May 

4 

Clark 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

April 

11 

Middlebury 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

VARSITY  GOLF 

May 

17 

25 

29 

2 

6 

9 

12 

Nichols,  Bentley 
Norwich,  Colby 
Amherst,  R.P.I. 
Bridgeport,  Coast  Guard 
Tufts 

Assumption,  Clark 
Trinity 

H 
A 
A 
A 
A 
H 
A 

4:00  p.m. 

3:30  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 
3:30  p.m. 
1:30  p.m. 
3:30  p.m. 

April 
May 

6 
16 
21 
24 
27 
1 
4 
12 

Bentley 

Trinity 

A.I.C. 

Providence 

Assumption,  Holy  Cross 

Clark,  Tufts 

M.I.T.,  U.  Mass. 

Lowell,  Coast  Guard 

A 
A 
H 
A 
A 
H 
A 
H 

2:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

2:00  p.m. 
1:30  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

FRESHMAN  TRACK 

15 

Springfield 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

April 

15 

Assumption  Prep. 

H 

4:15  p.m. 

FRESHMAN  GOLF 

23 

Worcester  Academy 

A 

4:00  p.m. 

April 

17 

Worcester  Academy 

H 

2:00  p.m. 

May 

6 

Tufts 

A 

3:30  p.m. 

27 

Winchendon  School 

A 

1:30  p.m. 

12 

Trinity 

A 

3:30  p.m. 

May 

4 

Leicester  Jr.  College 

A 

1:00  p.m. 

HE  JOURNAL 


49 


Even  at  moderate  speeds,  on  a  wet  highway,  the 
wheels  of  a  car  may  not  touch  the  road.  They  ride 
up  on  a  film  of  water  like  a  surfboard  on  a  wave. 

This  "hydroplaning"  effect  can  send  cars  spin- 
ning helplessly  out  of  control. 

That's  why  Norton  has  developed  the  first 
equipment  designed  expressly  for  "grooving"  high- 
ways and  airport  runways.  A  machine  that  cuts  into 
the  surface  to  allow  waterjp  flow  off.  Thereby  pro- 
viding better  traction, 
safer  stops  and  starts. 


And  "grooving"  is  just  one  way  Norton  has  made 

our  world  a  little  safer  to  live  in. 
We're  the  people  who  make  a  product  used  for 

insulation  in  heating  elements  in  your  electric  stove; 

invented  an  energy  absorbing  resin  that  could  be 
used  for  safety  padding  in  your  car; 
supply  the  basic  and  finished  mate- 
rials used  in  floors,  stairs  and  ramps 
that  keep  you  from  slipping.  Norton 
Company  world-wide:  where  you 
can  expect  the  unexpected. 


EXPECf7HE  DNEXi 
FROM  "™" 


A  GROOVY  MACHINE  THAT 
KEEPS  CARS  FROM  SKIDDING. 


£?<=» 


*"    * 


A 

different 

breed 


Ready  to  take  on  any  challenge.  Sure-footed 
ability.  Lean  and  hungry  for  the  chance  to 
solve  your  parts  problems  through  forging. 
That's  Wyman-Gordon  E| 

Wyman-Gordon  Company,  Worcester.  Mass.     •     Chicago,  Detroit.  Dayton,  Los  Angeles.  Fort  Worth,  Seattle,  Bombay.  Geneva 


the 
journal 

Published  by  the  Alumni  Association 
of  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

W.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 

President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 

Vice  presidents: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30; 

R.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 

W.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 

Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 

S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,   Jr.  '36; 

Executive  Committee, 

Members-at-Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

P.  Wiley,  '35;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

Fund  Board: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  L.  G.  Humphrey, 

Jr.,  '35;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38; 

L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34;  A.  Kalenian,  '33. 

Alumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Office  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Magazine  Secretary: 

Nance  C.  Thompson; 

Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter. 


In  This  Issue 

Two  Towers,  Part  IV:  A  Plan  page  two 

After  more  than  a  year  of  work,  the  Planning  Committee  has  submitted  its  plan  for  the  future 
of  WPI. 

Alden  Research  Laboratories 

By  Lawrence  C.  Neale,  '40,  Director,  Alden  Research  Laboratories  .       .      .       page  eleven 

Prof.  Neale  explains  some  of  the  areas  of  research  being  conducted  at  this  nationally  and 
internationally  famous  facility. 

Faculty  Promotions  Announced page  fifteen 


WPI  Enters  Race 


page  sixteen 


In  this  day  and  age  of  anti-pollution  efforts,  WPI  will  enter  a  number  of  minimum  pollution 
cars  in  the  Great  Electric  Car  Race  from  Massachusetts  to  California. 


A  Letter  From  Your  Alumni  Association  President 

By  Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40 page  twenty 

President  Higgs  clarifies  the  proposed  reorganization  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Financial  Aid  Based  on  "Need" 

By  Edgar  F.  Heselbarth,  Director  of  Financial  Aid page  twenty-three 

With  expenses  for  undergraduates  at  WPI  continually  rising,  financial  aid  becomes  more  and 
more  important.  In  an  informative  article,  Mr.  Heselbarth  describes  how  WPI  awards  financial 
aid. 


.page  twenty-seven 


Board  of  Trustees  Meet  

Dr.  Hazzard's  message  to  the  Trustees  is  included  in  this  article  along  with  the  announcement 
that  a  new  Computer  Science  program  has  been  approved. 


Vol.  73 


Spring  1970 


Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

The  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
Spring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
matter  July  26,  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
year.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
Alumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes  ' 

Varsity  Review  17 

An  Alumnus  Comments 22 

Alumni  Council  Meets  24 

Trustees  Nominated 24 

Alumni  Fund  Progress  Report  26 

In  Memory  30 

Campus  Notes  33 


HE  JOURNAL 


THE  FUTURE  OF 

TWO  TOWERS 


PART  IV: 


A  PLAN 


Formed  in  December,  1968,  to  develop  long-range  goals 
and  plans  for  WPI  during  its  second  century  of  existence, 
the  Faculty  Planning  Committee  has  submitted  four  reports 
to  the  WPI  community  since  that  date.  The  most  recent  of 
these  reports,  The  Future  of  Two  Towers,  Part  IV:  A  Plan, 
was  presented  on  April  20,  1970,  after  many  months  of 
hard  and  time-consuming  work,  not  only  by  the  Planning 
Committee,  but  by  a  large  number  of  volunteers  from  the 
WPI  Community. 

In  March,  1969,  the  Planning  Group  submitted  its  first 
report  which  contained  a  preliminary  schedule  of  the 
planning  operation,  a  partial  analysis  of  the  present  status 
of  the  college,  and  twelve  possible  objectives  for  the 
college.  The  report  emphasized  that  WPI  should  commit 
itself  to  a  single  objective  and  establish  effective  quality 
control  procedures  by  June,  1970.  In  April,  1969,  Planning 
Day  I  was  held,  a  day  without  classes  which  was  devoted  to 
discussions  about  the  future  of  the  college.  It  was  attended 
by  10%  of  the  student  body  and  by  80%  of  the  faculty. 

In  June,  1969,  the  Planning  Committee,  supported  by 
the  activities  of  Planning  Day  I,  completed  a  second  report. 
It  contained  a  discussion  of  Planning  Day  I  and  a  further 
discussion  of  the  twelve  possible  objectives  for  the  college 
as  outlined  in  the  original  report.  It  paved  the  way  for  Two 
Towers  III:  a  Model,  which  was  completed  in  October,  1969. 

A  key  item  which  was  necessary  for  the  completion  of 
the  Plan  was  the  approval  of  an  ultimate  goal  of  the  college. 
This  was  presented  and  endorsed  by  the  faculty  in 
December,  1969,  and  is  the  foundation  of  the  entire  plan. 
It  reads  as  follows:  "It  is  the  goal  of  the  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  to  bring  into  the  second  century  of  its 
existence  a  new,  dynamic  version  of  its  'Two  Towers' 
tradition. 

"By  means  of  coordinated  programs  tailored  to  the 
needs  of  the  individual  student,  it  is  the  fundamental 
purpose  of  WPI  to  impart  to  the  student  an  understanding 


of  a  sector  of  science  and  technology  and  a  mature 
understanding  of  himself  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
around  him.  The  WPI  student,  from  the  beginning  of  his 
undergraduate  education,  should  demonstrate  that  he  can 
learn  on  his  own,  that  he  can  translate  his  learning  into 
worthwhile  action,  and  that  he  is  thoroughly  aware  of  the 
interrelationships  among  basic  knowledge,  technological 
advance,  and  human  need.  A  WPI  education  should  develop 
in  the  student  a  strong  degree  of  self-confidence,  an 
awareness  of  the  community  beyond  himself,  and  an 
intellectual  restlessness  that  spurs  him  to  continued 
learning." 

In  formulating  the  plan,  the  Committee  recognized  the 
need  to  find  a  balance  between  education  and  training  and 
that  WPI  should  recognize  the  need  for  more  of  a 
sociological  orientation  to  its  technically-oriented  curricu- 
lum. Thus  the  Committee  concluded  that  "The  temporal 
nature  of  'training'  means  that  the  training  aspects  of  higher 
education  must  lean  much  more  heavily  on  the  analysis  of 
problems  than  on  how  to  do  specific  things." 

The  following  are  excerpts  from  the  Plan: 

Characteristics 

The  Plan  for  WPI  is  designed  to  meet  the  goal  of  the 
college  to  impart  to  the  individual  student  an  understanding 
of  a  sector  of  science  and  technology  and  a  mature 
understanding  of  himself  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
around  him. 

It  is  structured  so  that  the  student  himself  would  be 
responsible  and  accountable  for  his  life  style  and  for  his 
becoming  educated.  The  Plan  requires  that  the  student, 
supported  by  excellent  instruction  and  an  effective  advisory 
system,  demonstrate  that  he  can  learn  on  his  own,  that  he 
can  translate  learning  into  worthwhile  action,  and  that  he 
has  become  aware  of  the  interrelationships  among  basic 
knowledge,  technology,  and  human  need. 


THE  JOURNAL 


The  Plan  is  flexible  enough  to  accommodate  the  varying 
backgrounds,  needs,  and  maturities  of  students.  With  its 
innovations  and  sound  academic  approach,  it  is  a  justifiable 
and  exciting  undertaking  for  an  independent  college  of 
engineering  and  science.  It  would  create  a  community 
where  both  the  student  and  the  faculty  member  would  find 
about  them  a  group  of  people  enjoying  learning  and 
attempting  to  solve  some  of  the  most  difficult  problems  of 
the  time. 


The  Educational  Program 

Each  student's  academic  program  would  consist  of  a 
mixture  of  Independent-Studies/Projects,  Studies,  and 
Study-Conferences  selected  to  meet  his  individual  goal  and 
the  College's  degree  requirements.  The  Committee  has 
defined  these  three  areas  as  follows: 

a)  Independent-Studies/Projects  are  a  basic  educational 
tool  of  the  college  requiring  individually  motivated  study  of 
a  problem  or  sub-problem  under  the  guidance  of  a  staff 
member  or  an  advanced  student.  Emphasis  would  be  placed 
upon  the  student's  learning  what  he  needs  to  know  to 
contribute  to  the  solution  of  the  overall  problem.  The 
investigation  would  culminate  in  a  written  report,  possibly 
accompanied  by  an  oral  presentation,  or  a  piece  of 
equipment  with  a  working  manual. 

b)  Study  refers  to  a  basic  element  of  instruction  which 
would  involve,  on  the  average,  four  class  meetings  and  13 
hours  of  outside  work  for  a  total  student  commitment  of 
about  17  hours  per  week  for  one  term.  A  term  is  defined  as 
a  basic  period  of  study  which  lasts  seven  weeks  and  includes 
35  class  days. 

c)  Study-conferences,  on  the  other  hand,  are  a  basic 
element  of  instruction  which  would  involve,  on  the  average, 
three  hours  of  lecture,  2.5  hours  of  Conference,  and  11-12 
hours  of  outside  work,  for  a  total  student  commitment  of 
about  17  hours  per  week  for  one  term. 

One  of  the  most  important  aspects  of  the  proposed 
educational  program  is  that  each  student,  in  conjunction 
with  his  advisor,  would  structure  his  own  program.  Thus,  in 
a  very  literal  and  practical  sense,  each  student's  course  of 
study  would  be  tailor-made  for  him,  and  he  would  have  a 
large  part  in  the  tailoring  process.  The  average  WPI  student, 
while  concentrating  in  the  scientific,  technical,  and  socio- 
logical areas,  would  benefit  most  by  establishing  a  minor  in 
a  humanities  area  to  increase  his  personal  perspective  and 
ability  to  make  reasonable  judgments. 

The  overall  educational  program  would  be  conducted  as 
follows:  Studies  and  the  lecture  portion  of  Study- 
Conferences  would  be  given  to  relatively  large  groups  (but 
less  than  100  students)  and  would  be  formally  scheduled. 

The  Conference  portion  of  Study-Conferences,  formally 
scheduled,  and  IS/P's  would  be  conducted  in  small  groups, 
providing  for  close  personal  contact  between  students  and 
faculty. 


HE  JOURNAL 


Short  "how-to-do-it"  presentations  would  be  available 
on  demand  to  aid  in  acquiring  specific  techniques  as 
needed. 

The  Intersession  period  of  three  weeks  would  be 
devoted  to  concentrated  presentations  of  specific  topics. 

Some  students  would  undoubtedly  wish  to  follow 
programs  similar  to  current  departmental  programs,  and 
they  could  so  allot  their  time;  but  the  allocation  of  effort 
for  traditional  programs  or  for  new  combinations  would 
vary  for  the  average,  above  average,  or  for  the  outstanding 
student.  Such  a  student-centered  and  flexible  curriculum 
should  develop  self-reliance  and  responsibility  in  the  stu- 
dent. This  aspect,  coupled  with  meaningful  humanities  and 
project  work,  would  enable  the  WPI  graduate  to  make  real 
contributions  to  the  society  of  which  he  becomes  a  part. 

Undergraduate  Degree  Requirements 

The  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  from  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute  would  be  awarded  upon  completion  of  the 
following: 

1.  A  normal  residence  of  16  terms.  Students  with 
exceptional  backgrounds  or  who  would  have  demonstrated 
unusual  accomplishments  at  WPI  might,  upon  recommenda- 
tion of  the  Council  of  Advisors,  take  their  Comprehensive 
Examination  before  the  completion  of  the  normal  16  terms 
and  receive  their  degree  early  if  other  requirements  were 
met.  In  any  case,  however,  early  examination  would  not  be 
recommended  before  completion  of  8  units  in  residence. 

2.  Acceptable  or  Distinguished  completion  of  a  Com- 
prehensive Examination  in  the  major  field  of  study.  (Under 
the  Plan,  the  now-existent  4.0  grading  system  would  be 
abandoned  and  only  the  grades  of  Acceptable,  Distin- 
guished, or  Unacceptable  would  be  used). 

3.  Qualification  in  a  minor  field  of  study  either  by 
Sufficiency  Examination  or  by  overall  evaluation  of  two 
units  of  work  in  the  area.  Students  majoring  in  a  scientific 
or  engineering  field  would  normally  fulfill  the  requirement 
in  a  humanities  area.  Students  majoring  in  a  humanities  area 
would  normally  fulfill  this  requirement  in  a  scientific  or 
engineering  area. 

4.  At  least  two  units  established  by  Acceptable  or 
Distinguished  work  in  an  advanced  level  activity  involving 
Independent-Study  or  Project  work.  One  of  these  units 
would  have  to  be  in  the  student's  major  field.  An  activity 
relating  science  or  technology  to  society  is  recommended 
for  the  second  unit.  Examinations  may  not  be  substituted 
for  this  requirement. 

Advisory  Program 

(One  of  the  most  discussed  items  concerning  Part  III:  A 
Model  was  the  extremely  significant  role  which  advisors 
would  be  required  to  carry.  The  Plan  sees  the  advisor 
system  as  follows:) 


.    .    .   To  Develop 

Long-range  Goals 

And  Plans  For  WPI 


It  would  be  the  responsibility  of  the  advisor  to  assist  his 
advisees  in  defining  their  educational  goals,  and  developing 
with  them  academic  programs  directed  toward  achieving 
those  goals.  The  advisor  would  direct  his  advisees  in  their 
preparation  for  the  Comprehensive  and  Sufficiency  Ex- 
aminations and  would  ultimately  certify  that  they  were 
ready  for  those  examinations.  Occasionally,  he  might  have 
to  recommend  to  the  Council  of  Advisors  that  one  of  his 
advisees  withdraw  from  the  college. 

The  assignment  of  a  faculty  member  to  the  role  of 
advisor  must  be  based  on  his  interest  in  students,  the 
diversity  and  depth  of  his  knowledge,  his  commitment  to 
the  academic  program,  and  on  a  thorough  analysis  of  the 
way  he  could  best  contribute  to  the  total  educational 
program.  The  advising,  of  course,  should  be  recognized  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  faculty  member's  teaching  assign- 
ment. 

The  advisor  for  each  student  would  be  assigned  when 
the  student  enrolls  at  WPI  and  the  assignment  would  be 
made  by  the  Dean's  Office. 

An  important  point  in  the  program  is  that  the  advisor 
must  gain  an  understanding  of  each  of  his  advisees  as  soon 
as  possible,  not  only  to  make  an  initial  determination  of  the 
student's  probable  academic  program,  but  also  to  be 
sensitive  to  changes  in  the  student's  attitudes  and  interests 
as  he  progresses. 

Calendar 

The  Calendar  recommended  consists  of  four  seven-week 
terms;  a  three-week  January  intersession  for  a  series  of 
special,  intensive  seminars;  and  an  optional  seven-week 
summer  term. 

Each  term  would  consist  of  35  class  days  followed  by  a 
recess  of  approximately  five  days.  The  first  term  would 
begin  early  in  September;  two  terms  would  be  completed 
before  the  Christmas  recess  of  approximately  two  weeks; 
and  the  fourth  term  would  be  completed  before  the  end  of 
May.  Three  weeks  would  be  provided  throughout  the  year 
for  comprehensive  evaluation  and  program  review. 


THE  JOURNAL 


Environmental  Principles 

A  campus  environment  must  be  created  to  help  the 
student  assume  the  role  of  an  adult  in  a  community.  This 
environment  includes  his  total  experience  —  his  living, 
social  life,  and  day-to-day  relations  with  staff,  fellow 
students,  and  Worcester  community.  The  college  would 
encourage  each  student  to  make  his  own  decisions  and  be 
fully  accountable  for  them  and  to  develop  and  demonstrate 
his  many  capabilities.  The  environment  would  provide  a 
congenial  atmosphere  for  living,  where  the  common  campus 
morality  would  be  good  manners,  not  a  set  of  rules.  To  the 
extent  that  the  undergraduate  population  exceeds  1500,  it 
would  become  increasingly  difficult  to  provide  the  kind  of 
environment  needed. 

Closer  communication  and  interaction  amongst  stu- 
dents, faculty,  and  administration  is  felt  to  be  an  area  of 
great  importance  if  the  college  is  to  meet  its  stated  goal. 
Along  these  lines,  the  Plan  recommends,  among  other 
items,  that  dining  is  an  important  area  of  living  and  must  be 
re-evaluated,  that  the  students  need  versatile  forms  of 
housing,  and  that  some  form  of  campus  center,  which 
would  be  a  central  meeting  place  for  students  and  faculty 
and  administration,  is  urgently  needed. 

Graduate  Studies 

The  graduate  program  should  support  the  educational 
goal  of  WPI  and  should  complement  the  undergraduate 
program.  In  considering  the  development  of  areas  of 
graduate  research  emphasis  or  support,  the  governing 
criterion  should  be  the  relevance  of  the  program  to  the  goal 
of  the  college  and  to  the  education  of  our  students. 
Programs  that  support  this  criterion  should  receive  funding 
priority. 

Only  those  graduate  areas  that  show  strong  promise  of 
significant  self-support  should  be  given  Institute  funding  for 
development.  Such  funding  should  be  sufficient  to  provide 
for  realistic  development,  but  it  should  be  for  a  limited 
time  period. 

For  the  immediate  future  a  large  portion  of  the  energies 
of  the  faculty  should  be  devoted  to  implementing  the 
proposed  undergraduate  program.  In  the  meantime  the 
present  graduate  program  should  be  strengthened,  but  no 
major  change  in  this  program  should  be  attempted  concur- 
rently with  the  changes  in  the  undergraduate  program. 

It  is  expected  that  as  the  undergraduate  program  gains 
momentum,  a  multidisciplinary  graduate  interest  and  need 
would  evolve.  This  interest  and  need  should  be  developed 
into  a  graduate  effort  that  meshes  naturally  with  the 
undergraduate  program. 

Organizational  Concepts 

Generally,  the  administrative  structure  of  colleges  or 
universities  is  the  responsibility  of  the  boards  of  trustees 
and    presidents    with    their    administrative    officers.    The 


faculty  should  play  an  advisory  role  to  insure  that  the 
administrative  structure  promotes  the  educational  goal  of 
the  college.  To  this  end,  only  those  organizational  concepts 
considered  important  to  the  functioning  of  the  plan  are 
considered. 

The  work  of  the  present  Dean  of  Faculty  would  be 
divided  into  two  parts  under  a  Dean  of  Academic  Resources 
and  a  Dean  of  Program  Operations.  The  two  Deans  would 
report  to  an  Academic  Vice  President. 

The  Dean  of  Academic  Resources  would  direct  the 
faculty  groupings,  the  library,  the  computation  center,  and 
consoritium  instruction.  Chairmen  of  faculty  groups  would 
report  to  the  Dean  of  Academic  Resources,  would  have 
primary  responsibility  for  the  recruitment  and  development 
of  faculty,  and  should  be  appointed  for  renewable  terms  of 
service  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  faculty  con- 
cerned. The  faculty  groupings  must  be  flexible  enough  to 
sustain  capabilities  in  areas  where  perhaps  only  one  person 
with  a  particular  disciplinary  interest  would  be  on  campus. 
The  groupings  should  encourage  meaningful  faculty  and 
student  interaction  among  engineer,  science,  humanities, 
and  social  science  fields. 

The  Dean  of  Program  Operations  would  be  responsible 
for  Study,  Study-Conference,  and  Independent-Study/ 
Project  operations.  He  would,  in  co-operation  with  the 
Dean  of  Academic  Resources,  draw  upon  faculty  from  the 
academic  resource  groupings  as  needed. 

A  graduate  program  should  be  incorporated  within  the 
same  organizational  pattern.  A  co-ordinator  of  graduate 
studies  should  be  appointed  to  serve  the  special  needs  of 
graduate  efforts.  He  should  report  to  the  Dean  of  Program 
Operations. 

The  organizational  structure  should  be  integrated  with 
the  advisory  system  and  with  the  faculty  government 
outlined  in  the  Constitution  of  the  WPI  faculty. 

IMPLEMENTATION  OF  THE  PLAN 

A  Suggested  Calendar  for 

Implementation  of  the  Plan 

1970-71:  An  Implementation  Committee,  consultants, 
and  administration  would  develop  complete  plans  for  a 
pilot  program,  including  the  administrative  structure, 
advisory  procedures,  allocation  of  faculty,  generation  of 
on-campus  and  off-campus  projects,  and  utilization  of  the 
physical  plant  of  WPI  for  both  educational  and  living 
purposes.  Concurrently,  all  departments  would  undertake  a 
thorough  study  of  the  content  of  their  course  offerings  in 
order  to  design  new  courses  to  meet  the  educational 
requirements  of  the  new  program. 

1971-72:  First  year  of  pilot  program.  Some  members  of 
the  faculty  would  be  involved  on  a  full-time  basis,  others  on 
a  part-time  basis,  working  with  approximately  ten  to  fifteen 
percent  of  the  undergraduate  student  body,  proportion- 
ately distributed  by  classes,  except  for  seniors. 


HE  JOURNAL 


1972-73:  Pilot  program  would  be  considerably  enlarged 
with  the  addition  of  a  large  portion  of  the  entering  class  as 
well  as  upperclass  transfers  from  the  regular  program. 
Approximately  two-thirds  of  the  faculty  would  be  involved 
at  least  part-time. 

1973-74:  All  faculty  would  be  involved  to  some  extent. 
Approximately  two-thirds  of  the  students  would  be  under 
the  new  program. 

1974-75:  All  entering  students  and  most  upperclassmen 
would  be  on  the  new  program.  Upperclassmen  under 
existing  programs  could  continue  until  graduation  but  no 
new  students  would  be  accepted  under  present  graduation 
requirements. 

Recommendations 

1.  A  Dean  of  Program  Operations  should  be  appointed 
as  soon  as  possible,  and  no  later  than  September  1,  1970,  to 
direct  the  development  of  a  pilot  program. 

2.  Each  department  at  WPI  should  begin  a  detailed 
study  of  the  content  of  its  undergraduate  program  so  that  it 
can  design  new  courses  meeting  the  requirements  of  the 
Plan.  This  study  should  be  completed  no  later  than  April  1, 
1971. 


3.  WPI  should  seek  the  advice  of  consultants  from 
industry,  government,  and  other  colleges  and  universities  in 
the  development  of  the  pilot  program. 

4.  WPI  should  appoint  ten  new  faculty  members, 
selected  particularly  because  of  the  contributions  they 
could  make  to  the  Plan  as  exemplified  by  their  previous 
experience. 

5.  Upon  adoption  of  the  Plan  by  the  faculty,  the 
Admissions  and  Public  Relations  Offices  should  develop 
detailed  brochures  regarding  the  new  academic  program  of 
the  College  and  should  embark  upon  an  extensive  campaign 
to  educate  guidance  directors  and  other  school  officials 
regarding  its  operation. 

Two  Towers,  Part  IV:  A  Plan  was  presented  to  the 
faculty  and  staff  on  April  20,  1970.  Since  that  time,  a  series 
of  meetings  and  discussions  have  been  held  concerning  the 
Plan  and  it  is  the  hope  of  the  committee  that  some  definite 
decisions  relative  to  the  implementation  of  the  Plan  can  be 
reached  by  mid-May,  1970. 

The  Journal  has  only  attempted  to  summarize  some  of 
the  important  items  contained  in  the  Plan.  (The  original 
length  of  the  Plan  was  123  pages).  Additional  and  more 
detailed  information  may  be  obtained  by  contacting  the 
college.  Your  comments  concerning  the  Plan  are  welcomed. 


We  are  a  group  of  alumni  and  friends  formed  to  assist  WPI  Athletics. 

Our  accomplishments  to  date  have  been: 

Tutorial  support  to  all  student  athletes  desiring  it.  •  Referral  of  student  athletes 
to  WPI.  •  Publication  of  a  very  well-received  brochure — "Sports  in  Perspec- 
tive"—  (copies  are  available).  •  Seasonal  mailings  of  athletic  Newsletters.  •  Social 
gatherings  at  the  various  athletic  events. 

Solid  growth  has  been  experienced— (membership  has  doubled  itself  each  year— over 

150  members  now). 

1st  year  -  1967-68     74  members  2nd  year  -  1968-69      150  members 

3rd  year  -  1969-70      Progress  ahead  of  last  year 

WOULD   YOU    LIKE  TO   JOIN? 


THE   POLY   CLUB 

Sign  me  up  as  a  member  of  THE  POLY  CLUB     Dues  enclosed. 

$25.00  Sustaining  Member  (Includes  Season  Pass  to  all  WPI  home  games,  all  sports) 

$10.00  Participating  Member 

Name  Class 

Address 

(Bill  mo  lolor  as  indicated  above       ) 


THE  JOURNAL 


OLAVI  H.  HALTTUNEN,  '45, 
NAMED  WPI  VICE  PRESIDENT 

Olavi  H.  Halttunen,  '45,  has  ac- 
cepted the  recently  created  position  of 
Vice  President  for  University  Re- 
lations. The  new  position  is  the  top 
supervisory  position  in  the  areas  of 
public  and  press  relations,  college  de- 
velopment, fund  raising,  and  the  cor- 
porate associates  program. 

Prior  to  coming  to  WPI,  Olle  had 
been  Vice  President  for  Marketing  at 
Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester,  and  be- 
fore that  he  was  Director  of  Marketing 
at  Cornell-Dubilier  Electronics,  a  sub- 
sidiary of  Federal  Pacific  Electric  Co., 
in  Newark,  N.  J.  Most  of  his  business 
experience,  however,  has  been  with 
General  Electric  Co.,  which  he  served 
in  several  marketing  and  management 
capacities  throughout  the  country. 

Mr.  Halttunen  attended  Colby  Col- 
lege before  enrolling  at  WPI.  His 
education  was  interrupted  by  three 
years  service  in  the  Navy  during  World 
War   II,   including  duty   in   the  South 


Mr.  Halttunen,  '45 


Pacific.  He  returned  to  WPI  and  was 
graduated  with  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

In  a  statement  announcing  Mr. 
Halttunen's  appointment,  Dr.  Hazzard 
said:  "The  tremendous  financial  pres- 
sures on  private  colleges  offering 
quality  education  require  the  greatest 
possible  efforts  in  locating  support. 
Because  of  the  unusual  possibilities  for 
contribution  to  modern  society  by  our 
technologically  educated  graduates,  we 
need  creative  new  approaches  to  assure 
such  support  at  WPI.  The  addition  of 
Mr.  Halttunen  with  his  outstanding 
technical  marketing  experience  will 
greatly  strengthen  our  efforts  in  this 
area." 

PROFESSOR  GROGAN,  '46, 
NAMED  DEAN 

Prof.  William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  has 
been  appointed  to  the  newly-created 
post  of  Dean  for  Undergraduate  Pro- 
grams at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. 

In  his  new  post,  Prof.  Grogan  will 
be  responsible  for  the  undergraduate 
curriculum  and  curricular  program 
planning,  summer  school,  and  coordi- 
nation of  academic  matters  with  the 
Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher 
Education.  He  will  continue  to  hold 
the  rank  of  professor  of  electrical 
engineering  when  he  begins  his  new 
duties  on  July  1 . 

In  announcing  the  appointment, 
President  George  W.  Hazzard  said, 
"The  planning,  adoption,  implementa- 
tion, and  management  of  under- 
graduate programs  necessary  for  the 
fulfillment  of  our  future  educational 
goals  will  require  a  much  greater  effort 
than  has  been  needed  in  the  past.  Prof. 
Grogan's   service   as   chairman  of  the 


faculty  curriculum  study  committee 
and  other  activities  in  this  area  have 
been  indicative  of  the  special  skills  he 
brings  to  this  important  new  post." 

Prof.  Grogan  was  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1946  and  received  his  master's 
degree  in  1949.  He  has  been  a  member 
of  the  WPI  faculty  since  1946  and  was 
promoted  to  full  professor  in  1962.  He 
was  the  recipient  of  the  1969  Faculty 
Award,  given  annually  for  distin- 
guished service  and  for  distinguished 
excellence  in  teaching. 


Professor  Grogan,  '46 

PERSONNEL  RELATIONS 
DIRECTOR  NAMED 

James  R.  Keskula  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  the  recently-created  posi- 
tion of  director  of  personnel  relations 
for  the  college.  In  this  new  position, 
Mr.  Keskula  will  be  responsible  for 
personnel  relations  with  non-academic 
personnel  employed  by  WPI.  He  will 
also  be  involved  in  the  researching  and 
coordinating  of  certain  staff  benefits 
for  the  faculty  and  professional  staff. 


rHE  JOURNAL 


One  of  the  highlights  of  Earth  Day,  April  22  was  a  speech  by  Massachusetts  Governor  Sargent. 
Pictured  here,  left  to  right  are:  Pres.  Hazzard,  Worcester  Mayor  George  A.  Wells,  Gov.  Sargent, 
and  Earth  Day  Chairman,  Domenic  J.  Forcella,  Jr.,  '70. 


A  graduate  of  Boston  University, 
Mr.  Keskula  has  a  broad  background  in 
the  personnel  field.  Immediately  prior 
to  joining  WPI,  he  was  manager  of 
personnel  and  executive  assistant  to 
the  president  at  Ty-Core,  Inc.,  of 
Nashua,  N.H.  Prior  to  that  he  was 
associated  with  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology  and  the  Mitre  Corp.  in 
placement  and  personnel  capacities 
along  with  spending  three  years  in 
inventory  control,  purchasing,  and  per- 
sonnel work  at  Reid-Meredith,  Inc.,  of 
Lawrence,  Mass. 

GLEE  CLUB  TOUR  A  SUCCESS 

The  WPI  Glee  Club  completed  a 
tour  during  the  week  of  March  30 
which  was  termed  a  huge  success  by  all 
involved.  Under  the  direction  of  Prof. 
Louis  Curran,  the  group  made  seven 
concert  appearances  in  three  cities  in 
four  days.  Cities  included  on  the  tour 
were  Cleveland,  Pittsburgh,  and 
Albany. 

Arrangements  for  the  various  con- 
certs were  made  by  the  local  alumni 
chapter  presidents  and  included  setting 
up  an  evening  concert  for  WPI  alumni 


and  the  public,  plus  an  appearance  at 
an  assembly  program  in  a  local  high 
school.  In  addition,  a  concert  was 
presented  at  the  General  Electric  Co.'s 
Research  and  Development  Center  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  arranged  by  Albert 
M.  Demont,  '31,  and  the  group  was 
given  a  tour  of  the  facilities  following 
the  concert. 

Although  the  evening  concerts 
were  presented  to  relatively  small 
audiences,  the  Glee  Club  was  ex- 
tremely well  received.  Most  alumni 
were  impressed  by  the  fine  perform- 
ance by  the  group  and  expressed  satis- 
faction that  the  group  was  able  to 
undertake  a  tour  and  to  do  so  in  such 
a  professional  manner. 


TUITION  INCREASES 

As  previously  announced,  tuition 
will  be  increased  S300  in  September, 
1970,  to  a  total  of  S2.400  annually. 
Faced  with  the  rising  costs  of  educa- 
tion, the  increase  places  WPI  at  about 
the  same  tuition  level  as  other  private, 
technically-oriented  colleges  in  the 
east. 


In  addition  to  tuition  costs,  an 
entering  freshman  in  the  fall  of  1970 
can  expect  to  have  the  following  ex- 
penses: board  ($580);  room  ($375); 
books  and  supplies  ($130);  social  fee 
($20);  accident  and  health  insurance 
($35);  and  a  room  damage  deposit 
($25).  Although  the  room  cost  listed  is 
only  an  average  and  can  vary  from 
$325  to  $600,  the  average  freshman  in 
the  fall  of  1970  can  expect  to  have 
expenses  of  $3,665,  exclusive  of  such 
items  as  travel,  clothing,  laundry, 
linen,  and  entertainment. 


COMPUTER  CENTER 
RECEIVES  GRANT 

WPI  recently  received  a  grant  of 
$220,000  from  the  National  Science 
Foundation  to  support  the  Worcester 
Area  College  Computation  Center 
which  is  located  in  Gordon  Library. 
According  to  Norman  E.  Sondak, 
Director  of  the  center,  the  grant  will 
be  used  to  pay  salaries  of  personnel 
employed  at  the  center.  Presently,  the 
center  employs  nine  persons  full-time, 
of  whom  five  are  professionals.  No 
new  personnel  will  be  hired  with  the 
grant. 

The  center  is  used  by  about  15 
colleges  in  the  area  and  is  used  for 
computer  science  education,  research 
in  many  areas,  and  by  participating 
college  administrations.  The  center 
supports  engineering  and  scientific 
courses  at  WPI  and  other  colleges  as 
well  as  courses  such  as  sociology, 
psychology,  and  geography  at  Clark. 
WPI  and  Clark  are  the  major  users  of 
the  center. 

The  center  serves  all  the  colleges 
participating  in  the  Worcester  Con- 
sortium for  Higher  Education,  al- 
though it  is  not  actually  a  part  of  the 
Consortium.  Participating  colleges 
from  the  greater  Worcester  area  are 
Assumption,  Anna  Maria,  Holy  Cross, 
Worcester  State,  Becker  Junior,  Leices- 
ter Junior,  Quinsigamond  Community, 
Worcester  Junior,  Clark,  and  WPI. 


THE  JOURNAL 


PUB  IS  SUCCESSFUL 

The  Pub,  located  in  the  basement 
of  Sanford  Riley  Hall,  is  now  in  its 
second  full  year  of  operation  and  has 
enjoyed  a  successful  year.  Formally 
created  two  years  ago  to  promote 
closer  communication  between  stu- 
dents and  faculty  on  a  social  level,  the 
Pub  has  a  license  to  sell  beer  and  wine. 
Memberships  are  available  to  any 
member  of  the  WPI  community  21 
years  of  age  or  older. 

The  Pub  currently  has  about  250 
members  with  many  of  these  being 
graduate  students  and  faculty  mem- 
bers. It  is  student-operated  with  two 
seniors.  Randy  Sablich  of  Seaford, 
N.Y.,  and  Jim  Bagaglio  of  Milford, 
Mass.,  managing  it  this  year  with  Dean 
William  F.  Trask  as  their  advisor.  It  is 
open  only  on  Wednesday  evenings  and 
Friday  afternoons. 


BROAD  RESIGNS 

Frederick  L.  Broad,  Jr.,  Director 
of  Development  at  WPI  since  1963, 
has  accepted  a  position  as  Director  of 
the  Department  of  Public  Information 
at  Old  Sturbridge  Village  in  Stur- 
bridge,  Mass. 

While  at  WPI,  Mr.  Broad  was  re- 
sponsible for  capital  giving,  deferred 
giving,  foundation  grants,  and  other 
methods  of  fund  raising  for  the  col- 
lege. He  supervised  the  successful 
Centennial  Fund  campaign  from 
1964-67  which  resulted  in  contribu- 
tions to  WPI  of  over  $15  million. 

According  to  an  announcement 
from  Old  Sturbridge  Village,  the  De- 
partment of  Public  Information  is  a 
new  department,  formed  to  better 
inform  members  and  friends  of  the 
Village  and  the  general  public  about 
the  complete  program  and  wide  range 


of  activities  and  resources  of  the  Vil- 
lage. Old  Sturbridge  Village  is  nation- 
ally known  as  a  museum  of  early  New 
England  life  and  for  its  unique  ex- 
hibits, but  its  function  as  an  educa- 
tional institution  with  the  extensive 
programs  and  resources  that  this 
involves  is  not  generally  realized,  and 
Mr.  Broad  will  be  responsible  for 
promoting  this  educational  area. 

NCAA  ELECTS  PRITCHARD 

Robert  W.  Pritchard,  WPI's  Direc- 
tor of  Athletics  and  Head  of  the 
Physical  Education  Dept.,  was  recently 
appointed  a  vice  president  of  the 
National  Collegiate  Athletic  Associa- 
tion. He  succeeds  Dolph  Samborski  as 
representative  of  District  I,  and  he  will 
also  serve  on  the  NCAA  Council, 
which  is  the  policy-making  committee. 

In  another  recent  event,  Pritchard 
was    elected    president    of    the    New 


The  Student  Government  Social  Committee  sponsored  Spree  Day  on  April  16.  Classes  were 
called  off  at  9:00  a.m.  and  the  remainder  of  the  day  was  beer  and  bands  on  the  quadrangle. 


THE  JOURNAL 


Construction  on  Stoddard  Residence  Center  progresses  about  on  schedule. 


England  Inter-Collegiate  Amateur 
Athletic  Association. 

Pritchard  has  long  been  active  in 
many  athletic  organizations,  and  his 
recent  elections  only  serve  to  em- 
phasize his  popularity  and  competency 
in  his  field.  He  is  a  past  president  of 
the  New  England  College  Athletic 
Conference.  He  has  served  on  three 
different  Eastern  College  Athletic  Con- 
ference committees  and  recently  com- 
pleted a  four-year  term  on  the  ECAC 
executive  committee.  He  is  also  a  past 
chairman  of  the  Quinsigamond 
Regatta  Committee  and  currently 
serves  on  their  board  of  directors. 

He  graduated  from  Susquehanna  in 
1936  and  received  his  master  of  educa- 
tion degree  from  Penn  State  in  1940. 
He  came  to  WPI  as  head  football  coach 
in  1947,  a  position  he  held  for  20 
years.  He  has  been  athletic  director  for 
the  past  18  years. 

HERRION  APPOINTED 

After  serving  as  interim  basketball 
coach  for  one  year,  James  J.  (Jim) 
Herrion  has  been  appointed  head 
basketball  coach  and  assistant  profes- 
sor in  the  Department  of  Physical 
Education    and    Athletics.    This    past 


season  he  directed  the  basketball  team 
to  its  first  winning  season  in  11  years, 
finishing  the  season  with  a  record  of 
11-10  while  winning  six  of  the  last 
seven  games  of  the  season.  He  has  to 
be  optimistic  about  next  year,  too,  for 
only  one  member  from  this  year's 
team  will  be  graduating. 

Herrion  was  a  varsity  basketball 
aide  and  a  freshman  coach  at  Holy 
Cross  for  three  years,  working  under 
head  coach  Jack  Donahue.  He  resigned 
in  1968  to  become  a  guidance  coun- 
selor at  Tantasqua  Regional  High 
School  in  Sturbridge,  Mass.  While  at 
Holy  Cross,  his  freshman  teams  com- 
piled a  highly  respectable  34-15  rec- 
ord. Prior  to  joining  Holy  Cross  in 
1965,  he  had  been  at  Sacred  Heart 
High  School  in  Yonkers,  N.Y.  He  had 
a  varsity  basketball  record  of  157-67 
in  12  seasons  at  that  school.  He  is  the 
second  former  Holy  Cross  coach  to 
cross  the  town  to  WPI.  Melvin  G.  (Mel) 
Massucco,  now  associate  professor  in 
physical  education  and  athletics, 
joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1967  to 
become  head  football  coach  of  the 
Engineers. 

Bob  Pritchard,  who  made  the  an- 
nouncement    of     Herrion's     appoint- 


ment, said,  "I  am  very  happy  that  Jim 
Herrion  has  decided  to  accept  the 
position  in  the  Physical  Education 
Department.  He  will  be  head  basket- 
ball coach  with  other  coaching  duties 
in  the  Fall  and  Spring.  He  will  also 
work  with  physical  education  classes 
as  do  all  other  members  of  the  depart- 
ment. 

"Jim  served  as  interim  head 
basketball  coach  for  the  last  season 
and  did  an  excellent  job,  concluding 
with  a  winning  season.  The  winning 
season  was  climaxed  with  a  double 
overtime  win  over  arch  rival  Clark 
University. 

"I  am  sure  the  members  of  the 
basketball  squad  will  be  pleased  with 
this  announcement.  I  think  the  associ- 
ation will  be  good  for  all  concerned." 

Herrion  is  a  graduate  of  lona  Col- 
lege and  has  a  master  of  arts  in 
guidance  in  the  secondary  school  from 
New  York  University.  Presently  living 
in  Oxford,  Mass.,  Herrion  is  married 
and  the  father  of  three  boys. 


Coach  Herrion 


10 


THE  JOURNAL 


ALDEN  RESEARCH 
LABORATORIES 

by 
LAWRENCE  C.  NEALE,  '40 

Director,  Alden  Research  Laboratories 


Editor's  Note:  In  1894,  Prof. 
George  I.  Alden,  then  head  of  the 
Mechanical  Engineering  Dept.  of 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
foresaw  a  need  for  research  in  hy- 
draulics and  fluid  mechanics.  He 
selected  a  240-acre  site  in  Hoi  den  on  a 
power  privilege  which  had  flowage 
rights  to  a  1 50-acre  pond.  Through  his 
efforts,  the  site  was  given  to  the 
Institute  and  a  laboratory  constructed. 

The  laboratory  was  formally  named 
the  Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory  in 
1915  when  George  Alden  financed  a 
meter  station.  Through  gifts  or  grants 
from  his  trust  fund  after  his  death, 
additions  to  the  facility  were  made  in 
1925,  1930,  1936,  and  1937.  Further 
generosity  from  his  trust  fund  made 
possible  the  construction  of  the 
present  main  building  in  1968. 

The  Alden  Research  Laboratories 
are  operated  as  a  separate  research 
facility  of  WPI.  Presently,  its  efforts 
are  divided  into  four  main  work  areas. 
The  facility  must  first  provide  research 
facilities  and  instruction  for  graduate 
and  undergraduate  students  studying 
at  WPI.  Second,  the  Laboratory 
provides  services  to  industry  in  the 
area  of  flow  calibration  or  flow  studies 
of  numerous  devices  used  in  pipe  lines 
ranging  in  size  from  a  fraction  of  an 
inch  in  diameter  to  48  inches  in 
diameter.  The  third  area  is  concerned 
with  naval  ballistic  studies  associated 
with  water  entry,  water  exit  or  under- 
water studies. 

Finally,  the  Laboratory  has  ac- 
quired a  national  and  an  international 
reputation  in  the  area  of  model  studies 
of    rivers,    dams,    spillways,    intakes. 


Alden    Research    Laboratories   Director   Lawrence   C.    Neale,    '40.   discusses  a  project  with 
Gordon  T.  Curney,  '41,  a  member  of  the  Alden  staff. 


THE  JOURNAL 


11 


pumps,  etc.  In  addition  to  a  pump  test 
facility,  there  are  currently  30  models 
in  existence  or  under  construction  at 
the  Laboratory.  Of  these  models  ten 
are  in  the  area  of  flow  through  struc- 
tures, eight  for  pump  storage  projects, 
ten  for  heat  rejection  studies,  and  two 
miscellaneous  studies. 

In  addition  to  the  model  studies, 
members  of  the  staff  are  active  par- 
ticipants on  numerous  national  and 
international  committees  dealing  in 
areas  of  fluid  mechanics.  This,  in 
addition  to  consulting  on  numerous 
full-scale  projects,  helps  the  Laborato- 
ry staff  stay  abreast  of  current  work  in 
its  field. 

The  following  article  by  Prof.  Neale 
explains  some  of  the  current  areas  of 
effort  at  the  Laboratory. 


The  Alden  Research  Laboratories 
continue  to  develop  in  a  number  of 
areas  that  are  of  interest  to  many  of 
our  alumni  and  friends.  In  the  instruc- 
tional program,  the  staff  is  par- 
ticipating in  a  number  of  the  new 
courses  which  are  developing  on  the 
main  campus.  At  least  one  staff  mem- 
ber (Albert  G.  Ferron,  '57)  is  par- 
ticipating in  ES  102,  the  "Introduc- 
tion to  Science  and  Engineering"  for 
freshmen,  which  has  been  extremely 
successful.  Another  member  (Prof. 
Clifford  H.  Lantz)  has  been  one  of  two 
faculty  members  responsible  for  the 
CM  III  "Environmental  Engineering" 
course  for  freshmen.  In  addition,  a 
new  graduate  course  in  Open  Channel 
Flow  is  now  being  offered  on  a  regular 
basis  by  a  staff  member  (Prof.  Peter  A. 
Larsen).  The  usual  courses  of  Elemen- 
tary Fluid  Mechanics,  Power  Plant 
Design,  and  Hydraulic  Transients  con- 
tinue to  be  offered.  With  the  availabili- 
ty of  the  new  building  at  Alden,  the 
laboratory  experimental  equipment 
for  the  undergraduate  courses  is  gradu- 
ally being  updated  and  moved  into  the 
new  experimental  wing.  The  transfer 
to  the  new  building  of  some  student 
experiments  is  being  developed  to  give 
the  students  the  "feel"  of  the  new 
building. 


The  space  in  what  was  our  main 
building  and  is  now  our  number  2 
building  is  being  utilized  for  other 
work,  such  as  a  graduate  thesis  in  the 
old  student  laboratory.  In  connection 
with  the  old  building,  it  should  be 
noted  that  the  50,000-pound  weighing 
tank  scales  are  calibrated  every  six 
months,  and  on  the  basis  of  these 
calibrations,  they  continue  to  perform 
as  a  high  precision  instrument  after  94 
years  of  service.  The  flow  capability 
has  been  increased  with  the  addition 
of  two  centrifugal  pumps  so  that 
maximum  flow  is  now  22  cubic  feet 
per  second,  a  large  increase  over  our 
early  capabilities.  Thus,  it  is  apparent 
that  building  number  2  is  being  used  at 
equally  as  high  a  level  as  at  any  time  in 
its  history. 

In  the  new  experimental  wing  of 
building  number  1,  a  100,000-pound 
weigh  tank  has  now  been  put  in 
service.  This  has  been  a  major  effort  of 
all  hands  with  special  credit  to  Prof. 
Leslie  J.  Hooper,  '24,  Prof.  Hobart  H. 
Newell,  '18,  and  Mr.  Alden  T.  Roys, 
'40.  The  "shakedown"  exercise  is  still 
going  on  but  two  complete 
calibrations  have  been  carried  out,  and 
the  excellent  results  on  these  initial 
runs  predict  a  fine  caliber  of  work  in 
the  future.  Another  project  set  up  at 
present  in  the  experimental  wing  of 
the  new  building  is  an  example  of  the 
expanding  interest  of  Alden  Research 
Laboratories.  A  full-scale  mock-up  of 
the  reactor  cavity  on  an  880  MW  unit 
is  being  studied  to  determine  the 
cooling  air  flow  distribution  between 
the  concrete  and  the  insulating  panels. 
The  construction  and  testing  on  this 
experiment  is  being  handled  by  Mr. 
Gordon  T.  Gurney,  '41,  a  recent 
addition  to  the  Alden  staff.  The  flow 
measurement  facilities  are  being  uti- 
lized to  the  fullest  extent  possible  by 
industry  for  both  flow  meter  develop- 
ment and  control  and  regulation 
studies  for  valve  manufacturers. 

A  major  portion  of  the  Alden 
research  effort  is  being  directed  to- 
ward service  to  the  power  industry  and 
the  research  needs  involved  with  the 
expanding     installed     capacity.     Two 


.  with  a 
national 
and 

international 
reputation 


main  areas  of  interest,  pumped  storage 
and  thermal  pollution,  are  apparent 
from  a  review  of  our  projects.  The 
vital  concern  over  heat  dissipation 
from  thermal  electric  plants  has  result- 
ed in  a  number  of  river  model-type 
studies  being  conducted.  Over  the  past 
17  years  there  have  been  23  of  these 
studies  conducted  for  various  power 
producers.  At  present  there  are  five 
active  studies  being  conducted  at 
ARL.  These  are  the  Calvert  Cliffs 
Nuclear  Plant  on  Chesapeake  Bay  for 
the  Baltimore  Gas  and  Electric  Co.; 
the  Indian  Point  Nuclear  Plant  on  the 
Hudson  River  for  the  Consolidated 
Edison  Co.  of  New  York;  the  Peach 
Bottom  Nuclear  Plant  on  the  Susque- 
hanna River  for  the  Philadelphia  Elec- 
tric Co.;  the  Fitzpatrick  Nuclear  Sta- 
tion on  Lake  Ontario  for  the  Power 
Authority  of  the  State  of  New  York; 
and  the  Chalk  Point  Plant  on  the 
Patuxent  River  for  the  Potomac  Elec- 
tric Power  Co.  In  each  of  these  studies, 
the  basic  goal  is  to  minimize  the  effect 
of  the  heated  condenser  water  dis- 
charge on  the  receiving  body  of  water. 
The  ARL  part  in  this  effort  is  to 
define  the  flow  patterns  of  the  warm 
water  being  discharged  to  develop  data 
in  a  form  to  allow  decisions  by  the 
ecologist,  on  the  biological  effects,  and 
by  the  design/operating  engineer,  on 
the  performance.  In  developing  a  test 
program  to  satisfy  our  goals,  the  type 


12 


THE  JOURNAL 


Professor  Neale  and  Albert  G.  Perron,  '57,  discuss  a  project. 


of  structures  involved,  the  modes  of 
operation  of  the  plant,  the  receiving 
body  conditions,  and  other  pertinent 
aspects  are  all  integrated  into  the 
model.  Thus,  comparisons  of  plant 
operations,  structural  modifications, 
and  other  pertinent  parameters  can  be 
made. 

In  terms  of  size  and  scope,  these 
models  are  of  interest.  In  order  to 
model  34  miles  of  Chesapeake  Bay  at  a 
scale  of  1/1000,  the  Calvert  Cliffs 
model  is  over  200  feet  long  and 
averages  60  feet  in  width.  Controls  at 
three  boundaries  of  the  model  provide 
the  correct  tidal  flow  variation  and 
water  surface  change  automatically 
and  continuously.  It  should  be  pointed 
out  that  the  time  scale  is  such  that  a 
12Y2  hour  tide  cycle  is  reproduced  in 
71/2  minutes.  Also,  in  terms  of  scaling, 


the  temperature  variations  are  mod- 
eled at  1  to  1,  which  means  that  a  1  ° 
F.  change  in  the  field  is  reproduced  by 
a  1°  F.  change  in  the  model.  These 
tidal  models  are  basically  self-con- 
tained, in  that  a  sump  is  provided  and 
tidal-river  flows  are  pumped  from  the 
sump  to  provide  the  correct  tidal 
flows.  The  sump  affords  the  possibility 
to  maintain  any  required  river  or 
estuary  temperature  such  as  winter 
condition  of  32°  F.  or  a  summer 
temperature  near  90°  F. 

In  terms  of  data  retrieval,  the  later 
models  provide  some  interesting 
changes  from  earlier  installations.  In 
the  Indian  Point  model  a  data  retrieval 
system  is  installed  for  300  individual 
temperatures.  The  system  is  able  to 
survey  these  300  points  in  15  seconds 
total.   The   data    is   printed   on   paper 


tape  and  simultaneously  digitalizes  the 
data  and  records  it  on  magnetic  tape. 
The  tape  can,  in  turn,  be  used  in 
computer  techniques  and  permits  data 
reduction  as  well  as  computer  con- 
trolled plots  of  the  data. 

Pumped  storage  is  another  interest- 
ing new  aspect  of  the  Alden  Research 
Laboratory  modeling  task.  The  model 
study  is  usually  concerned  with  the 
flow  patterns  in  the  upper  reservoir 
and  the  possible  formation  of  vortex 
flow  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the 
intake  structure.  A  case  in  point  is  the 
model  of  the  newly-announced  Bear 
Swamp  development  on  the  Deerfield 
River  in  Massachusetts.  The  entire 
upper  reservoir  has  been  modeled  at 
ARL  to  a  scale  of  1/50  to  study  the 
intake.  In  addition  to  studies  to  elimi- 
nate vortex  flow,   assurance  must  be 


THE  JOURNAL 


13 


developed  that  no  large  blocks  of  ice 
can  be  withdrawn  from  the  reservoir. 
The  entire  reservoir  is  modeled,  since 
early  studies  have  shown  that  the 
patterns  of  flow  developed  in  the 
reservoir  are  critical  to  the  accurate 
modeling  of  flow  near  the  intake. 
Other  areas  of  study  on  this  model 
include  head  loss  and  rock  trap  prob- 
lems. 

In  still  another  area  the  pump  test 
facility  is  now  fully  operative  with  two 
loops  available  under  the  supervision 
of  Mr.  Frazier  P.  Colon,  MS  '68.  One 
loop  is  a  40  HP  constant  speed  stand 
for  centrifugal  pumps.  This  loop  is 
designed  basically  for  developmental 
type  studies  and  incorporates  a  cradled 


drive,  a  calibrated  venturi  meter,  and 
associated  speed  and  head  measure- 
ment equipment,  all  arranged  to  take 
advantage  of  a  concrete  sump  40'  x  5' 
x  8'  in  volume. 

The  second  loop  is  a  100  HP 
variable  speed  installation  for  vertical- 
type  pumps.  The  loop  incorporates  a 
calibrated  venturi  meter  and  basic 
water  columns  for  head  measurement. 
A  diesel-driven  DC  generator  provides 
power  to  the  variable  speed  DC  drive. 
Model  pumps  with  as  much  as  a  12" 
diameter  have  been  tested  in  this  loop. 
This  facility  is  set  up  entirely  in 
building  number  6,  which  also  is  ar- 
ranged to  test  pump  well  intakes  and 
similar  structures. 


A  series  of  tests  have  been  conduct- 
ed this  past  winter  on  a  40  HP  gear 
drive  for  a  water  treatment  system.  An 
interesting  aspect  of  the  tests  has  been 
the  use  on  a  sponsored  project  of  an 
Alden  Dynamometer  for  the  first  time 
in  over  30  years.  The  dynamometer 
has  performed  so  well  that  the  client 
has  indicated  an  interest  to  purchase 
such  a  unit. 

These  are  some  of  the  highlights  of 
the  present  activities  at  Alden  Re- 
search Laboratories.  The  Laboratories 
are  open  for  visitation  and  inspection 
and  a  visit  will  certainly  provide  a 
more  complete  picture  of  the  current 
status  of  our  instructional  and  research 
activities. 


ALDEN   RESEARCH   LABORATORIES 


1-  New  Lab  Building 

2-  Old  Lab  Building 

3-  Low  Head  Lab 

4-  Technician's  Off. 

5-  Sammis   I 
Vermont  Yankee 

6-  Foster  Wheeler 


7-  Chalk  Point 

8-  Riley  Stoker 

9-  Pilgrim  Wave  Basin 

10-  Bear  Swamp 
1  1-  Morgantown 

12-  Calvert  Cliffs 

13-  Indian  Point   III 


14-  Gilboa 

15-  Peach  Bottom 

16-  Jocassee 

17-  Beaver  Valley 

18-  Indian  Point   II 
Vt.  Yankee  Disch. 
Northfield  Intake 
Cornwall    II 


Area  A-Oyster  Creek 

Area  B-Northfield  River 
Midland 

Area  C-Easton 

Seabrook 
City  of  Madrid 

Area  D-Ludington 
Cornwall 
Oyster  Creek   II 


14 


THE  JOURNAL 


FACULTY  PROMOTIONS  ANNOUNCED 


Eight  faculty  promotions  were 
announced  recently  by  M.  Lawrence 
Price,  '30,  Vice  President  and  Dean  of 
the  Faculty.  The  promotions  will  be- 
come effective  July  1 ,  1 970. 

Professor 

Promoted  to  professor  of  electrical 
engineering  is  Dr.  Harit  Majmudar.  He 
received  his  BS  degree  from  Banaras 
Hindu  University  in  1952  and  his 
doctorate  degree  from  Syracuse  Uni- 
versity in  1961.  He  joined  the  staff  of 
WPI  in  1964  as  an  associate  professor 
and  has  written  several  articles  and 
textbooks. 

Associate  Professor 

Dr.  Robert  W.  Fitzgerald,  '53,  has 
been  promoted  to  associate  professor 
of  civil  engineering.  Dr.  Fitzgerald 
received  his  bachelor's  and  master's 
degrees  from  WPI  in  1953  and  1960, 
respectively.  He  recently  received  his 
doctorate  degree  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut,  and  he  has  been  an 
assistant  professor  at  WPI  since  1963. 

John  A.  Mayer,  Jr.,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  associate  professor  of  me- 
chanical engineering.  Prof.  Mayer  re- 
ceived his  bachelor's  degree  from  New 
York  State  Maritime  College  in  1954. 
He  has  earned  two  master's  degrees, 
one  in  mechanical  engineering  from 
Columbia  University  in  1956  and  one 
in  nuclear  engineering  in  1962.  He  was 
an  instructor  and  rose  to  be  an  associ- 
ate professor  at  N.Y.  State  Maritime 
College  before  he  joined  the  WPI 
faculty  as  an  assistant  professor  in 
1964. 

Dr.  Alfred  A.  Scaia  has  been  pro- 
moted to  associate  professor  of 
chemistry.  He  received  his  bachelor's 
and  master's  degrees  from  Brooklyn 
College  in  1957  and  1961,  respec- 
tively,   and    received    his    PhD    degree 


from  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn  in  1965.  He  came  to  WPI  in 
1966  as  an  assistant  professor. 

Dr.  Kenneth  Schoen  has  been  pro- 
moted to  associate  professor  of  mathe- 
matics. Dr.  Schoen  received  his  doctor- 
ate degree  in  mathematics  from  the 
University  of  Pittsburgh  in  1968.  He 
had  previously  received  a  BA  degree 
from  the  University  of  Connecticut  in 
1954,  an  AM  degree  in  mathematics 
from  Yale  University  in  1955,  and  an 
MS  degree  in  engineering  science  from 
RPI  in  1961.  He  joined  the  staff  at 
WPI   in  1968  as  an  assistant  professor. 

Dr.  Stephen  J.  Weininger  has  been 
promoted  to  associate  professor  of 
chemistry.  Dr.  Weininger  received  a 
BA  degree  from  Brooklyn  College  in 
1957  and  received  his  doctorate  degree 
from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in 
1964.  He  then  was  a  senior  demonstra- 
tor at  Durham  University  in  England 
for  a  year  before  he  joined  the  staff  at 
WPI   in  1965  as  an  assistant  professor. 

Assistant  Professor 

Warren  E.  Chase  has  been  pro- 
moted to  assistant  professor  of  mathe- 
matics. He  received  a  BS  degree  from 
Franklin  &  Marshall  in  1956,  and  an 
MS  degree  from  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire  in  1962.  He  was  an  instruc- 
tor at  WPI,  1962-63;  a  teaching  assist- 
ant at  Lehigh,  1963-64;  an  instructor 
at  Albright  College,  1964-65;  and  he 
returned  to  WPI  in  1965  as  an  instruc- 
tor. 

George  F.  Riley  has  been  pro- 
moted to  assistant  professor  of 
physics.  He  joined  the  faculty  at  WPI 
in  1961  as  an  instructor  after  receiving 
a  BS  degree  from  Brown  University  in 
1957  and  an  MS  degree  from  the 
University  of  Maine  in  1959.  He  was 
an  instructor  at  the  University  of 
Maine  from  1959-61. 


Professor  Chase 


THE  JOURNAL 


15 


THE  GASSER" 

ENTERS  RACE 


WPI  will  be  well  represented  when 
the  second  running  of  the  Great  Elec- 
tric Car  Race  begins  on  August  19. 
About  60  WPI  students,  ranging  from 
freshmen  to  graduate  students,  are 
involved  in  designing  and  producing 
six  different  minimum  pollution  auto- 
mobiles for  entry  in  the  race. 

The  entire  concept  for  a  minimum 
pollution  auto  race  began  in  1968 
when  MIT  and  Cal  Tech  held  an 
electric  car  challenge  race.  This  year 
the  same  two  schools  decided  to  ex- 
pand their  race  and  invited  entries 
from  engineering  students  at  other 
colleges  in  North  America.  At  present, 
about  40  entries  are  expected.  The 
race  will  run  from  Cambridge,  Mass., 
to  Pasadena,  Calif. 

The  only  design  requirements  are 
that  the  vehicles  produce  less  pollution 
than  the  amount  allowed  by  the  State 
of  California  motor  vehicle  code  which 
will  go  into  effect  in  1975.  Entry 
requirements  dictate  that  each  entry 
must  meet  local  requirements  for 
vehicle  registration,  that  certain  design 
and  performance  tests  must  be  passed 
before  the  cross  country  drive  begins, 
and  that  each  vehicle  must  be  driven 
by  a  team  of  two  registered  college 
students. 

The  response  to  the  project  and 
challenge  at  WPI  has  been  overwhelm- 
ing. According  to  Roger  R.  Borden, 
MS  '61,  Professor  of  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering and  faculty  advisor  for  the 
project,  "When  I  first  mentioned  the 
project,  I  expected  that  there  would 
be  several  students  who  would  want  to 
develop  an  entry.  I  was  hardly  pre- 
pared to  find  60  men  who  would  come 
up  with  six  different  designs.  However, 
each  team  has  come  up  with  plans 
which  are  technically  sound  and  quite 
practical  as  prototypes  of  new  types  of 
automotive  power." 


Planned  entries  from  WPI  include  a 
reciprocating  steam  engine  car,  a  steam 
turbine  car,  a  gas  turbine  car,  a  natural 
gas  car,  a  modified  "conventional" 
engine  car,  and  a  hybrid-electric  car. 
All  of  the  entries  are  being  adapted 
from  conventional  automobiles  with 
only  the  necessary  changes  in  the 
power  plant  and  power  train  being 
made.  Donation  of  automobiles  has 
been  made  by  at  least  one  local  auto 
dealer  and  support  in  terms  of  finances 
and/or  parts  has  come  from  a  wide 
range  of  sources.  The  Ford  Motor 
Company  and  Mobil  Oil  Company,  for 
example,  are  jointly  sponsoring  one 
entry,  while  Saab  is  sponsoring  an- 
other entry. 

"These  men  have  already  received 
considerable  help  and  encouragement 
in  the  form  of  donated  or  loaned 
pieces  of  equipment,"  said  Prof.  Bor- 
den. "Other  firms  are  providing  equip- 
ment at  cost.  They'll  also  need  funds 


for  operating  and  living  expenses  as 
the  entries  drive  across  the  country  in 
August.  We've  already  had  several 
offers  of  support  from  people  who 
want  to  back  a  winner. 

"I  feel  this  is  really  a  pilot  pilot 
program  for  the  Two  Tower  III  pro- 
gram," Prof.  Borden  continued.  "If 
the  program  is  adopted  this  spring, 
there  will  probably  be  a  pilot  program 
with  the  project  approach.  The  stu- 
dents involved  in  this  project  have 
worked  under  an  advisor  relationship, 
have  sought  outside  help  on  their  own, 
and  have  sought  successfully  assistance 
from  other  departments  on  the  Hill. 
It's  been  a  real  learning  procedure  for 
all  involved,"  he  enthused. 

And  with  the  enthusiasm  evident 
on  the  part  of  the  students  involved,  as 
well  as  Prof.  Borden,  the  prospect  of 
the  winner  representing  WPI  would 
appear  to  be  a  distinct  possibility. 


"The  Gasser,"a  natural  gas  powered  car.  is  readied  for  display. 


16 


THE  JOURNAL 


mm  mm 


Basketball 

Happiness  is  a  winning  season,  and 
this  is  what  Coach  Jim  Herrion's  first 
WPI  team  achieved.  Coming  up  with 
strong  team  efforts  during  the  last  half 
of  the  season,  the  team  won  its  last 
four  games  and  six  of  its  last  seven  to 
finish  with  a  record  of  1 1-10,  the  first 
winning  season  in  basketball  in  11 
years. 

After  starting  the  season  quite 
strongly,  the  Engineers  slumped  about 
mid-season  and,  at  one  point,  had  a 
record  of  5-9.  Included  in  this  were 
sound  defeats  at  the  hands  of  Boston 
University,  80-66,  and  Springfield  Col- 
lege, 112-73.  But  at  this  point  the 
hoopsters  appeared  to  reach  maturity 
as  a  team  and  went  on  to  finish  the 
season  in  an  impressive  style. 

After  the  Springfield  massacre,  the 
team  bounced  back  to  defeat  Bates 
73-58.  It  was  a  solid  team  effort  with 
excellent  rebounding  and  a  strong 
zone  and  zone  trap  press  forcing  nu- 
merous Bates  turn-overs.  The  hoop- 
sters then  went  on  to  defeat  Trinity 
before  suffering  a  minor  setback  in 
their  quest  for  a  winning  season,  losing 
to  Colby. 

Against  a  weak  Coast  Guard  team, 
the  Engineers  upped  their  record  to 
8-10  with  a  76-51  victory,  and  talk 
suddenly  centered  around  a  winning 
season.  Against  Coast  Guard,  it  was 
once  again  a  team  effort  with  four 
players  scoring  in  double  figures,  led 
by  junior  co-captain  Tim  Rooney,  '71, 
of  Ludlow,  Mass.,  with  17  points. 
Scoring  an  overwhelming  victory  over 
Suffolk  University,  98-69,  the  Engi- 
neers upped  their  record  to  9-10  and 
the  possibility  of  a  winning  season 
appeared  to  center  around  the  game 
with  cross-town  rival,  Clark. 

The  Clark  game  was  everything  it 
had    been    built   up   to   be.    It   was  a 


double  overtime  thriller  with  the  score 
tied  at  69-69  and  77-77  before  reserve 
forward  John  O'Brien,  '72,  of  Charles- 
town,  Mass.,  canned  an  underhand 
layup  with  time  running  out  to  defeat 
Clark,  87-85.  Sophomore  center,  6'4" 
Jimmy  Henderson,  '72,  of  New  Haven, 
Conn.,  was  outstanding.  He  grabbed 
off  22  rebounds  and  was  9  for  1 1  from 
the  floor,  winding  up  with  20  points 
for  the  night. 

Before  a  large  and  spirited  crowd, 
the  Herrion-men  ended  the  season  by 
defeating   Brandeis   University,   82-58, 


and  thus  won  their  fourth  game  in  a 
row  and  finished  the  season  with  a 
winning  record. 

Coach  Herrion  did  an  outstanding 
job  of  building  a  winner  in  his  first 
year  as  head  coach.  Not  only  did  he 
produce  a  winning  record,  but  he  won 
six  of  his  last  seven  games  with  an 
impressive  display  of  team  effort  and 
desire.  And  the  outlook  for  next  year 
appears  to  be  bright.  Only  one  mem- 
ber of  the  squad  graduates  (Ollie 
Briggs  of  Rutland,  Mass.),  and  it  ap- 
peared as  the  season  progressed  that 
the  freshman  team  might  produce  a 
few  stars  for  the  future.  Freshmen 
with  good  talent  included  Bill  lerardi 
of  Hamden,  Conn.;  John  MacDougall 
of  Hopedale,  Mass.;  and  Bob  Zawada 
of  Thompsonville,  Conn. 


Jim  Henderson,  '72,  goes  high  to  grab  another  rebound  against  Colby. 


THE  JOURNAL 


17 


Wrestling 

The  wrestling  team,  coached  by 
John  Vino,  finished  their  season  with  a 
record  of  five  wins  and  five'  losses. 
After  getting  off  to  a  slow  start,  losing 
two  of  their  first  three  matches,  the 
matmen  came  on  strong  to  finish  with 
a  .500  record. 

Outstanding  all  season  long  was 
co-captain  Lenny  Polizzotto,  '70,  of 
Westbury,  N.Y.,  who  finished  the  dual 
meet  season  undefeated,  wrestling  at 
134  lbs.  His  varsity  record  at  WPI  was 
an  amazing  35-4-1,  and  he  scored  a 
school  record  of  121  points  during  his 
career  to  break  the  record  of  103 
points  held  by  Peter  Grosch,  '69.  In 
the  New  Englands  this  year,  Lenny, 
hampered  by  an  injury,  finished  fourth 
in  the  134-lb.  weight  class,  a  disap- 
pointment after  finishing  second  in 
that  weight  division  the  previous  year. 


Early  in  February,  the  matmen 
defeated  Tufts  University  by  a  score  of 
28-20  to  bring  their  record  to  3-2.  This 
victory  also  brought  them  an  eighth- 
place  ranking  in  the  New  England 
wrestling  conference.  In  their  next 
match  they  brought  their  record  to  4-2 
as  they  destroyed  cross-town  rival 
Holy  Cross,  43-3.  The  only  points 
scored  by  Holy  Cross  came  when 
heavyweight  Art  Geetersloh,  '72,  of 
Avon,  Conn.,  lost  a  3-2  decision. 

The  next  two  matches  proved  to 
be  disappointments  as  the  wrestlers 
dropped  two  heartbreakers  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Hartford  by  a  score  of  24-20 
and  to  Brown  University  by  an  even 
closer  score,  21-19. 

The  grapplers  then  lost  to  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  suffering 
their  worst  defeat  of  the  season  as 
they  were  buried  41-5.  The  only  win- 


Ned  Cunningham,  '71,  lays  in  two  against  Brandeis  as  John  O'Brien,  '72,  looks  on. 


ner  for  WPI  was  all-star  Lenny  Poliz- 
zotto, who  pinned  his  opponent.  The 
matmen  finished  their  season  and 
evened  their  record  at  5-5  as  they 
defeated  Ivy  League  foe  Dartmouth, 
26-16. 

At  the  New  England  Tournament 
held  at  Springfield  College,  the  team 
placed  11th  in  a  field  of  28.  In  this 
meet  a  fine  performance  in  the  167-lb. 
weight  class  was  turned  in  by  sopho- 
more Jeff  Petry,  Greenlawn,  N.Y. 

"Last  November  I  wasn't  quite 
sure  what  kind  of  a  team  we  would 
shape  into,  particularly  after  gradu- 
ating five  strong  seniors  who  had 
scored  a  lot  of  points,"  commented 
Coach  Vino.  "The  men  worked  hard 
to  finish  with  a  5-5  record." 

Gone  next  year,  among  others,  will 
be  record-setting  Lenny  Polizzotto.  A 
strong  array  of  young  talent,  however, 
will  be  returning.  Included  in  this 
group  are  sophomores  Jeff  Petry,  who 
had  a  7-3  record  this  past  season,  and 
Ken  Kolkebeck  of  Westbury,  N.Y., 
who  had  a  5-5  record,  along  with 
junior  Greg  Dickson  of  Gouverneur, 
N.Y.,  who  finished  with  a  6-4  record. 
This  nucleus,  plus  a  strong  freshman 
group,  give  Coach  Vino  a  bright  out- 
look for  next  season. 


Hockey 

The  WPI  hockey  team  also  had  a 
successful  year  as  they  gained  the 
play-offs  in  the  Worcester  City  College 
Hockey  League  for  the  first  time  in 
five  years. 

Led  by  high-scoring  sophomore  "J. 
C."  Tremblay  of  Waterville,  Me.,  and 
defensemen  Jim  Risotti,  a  freshman 
from  Marlborough,  Mass.,  and  junior 
co-captain  Bob  Johnson  of  W.  Boyl- 
ston,  Mass.,  along  with  outstanding 
goal-tender  George  Gamache,  the  team 
used  strong  teamwork  to  gain  their 
play-off  berth. 

The  team  entered  the  play-offs 
seeded  fourth  and  finished  in  exactly 
that  position,  losing  to  both  Holy 
Cross  and  Worcester  State. 


18 


THE  JOURNAL 


Swimming 

The  1969-70  swimming  team 
scored  more  victories  than  any  other 
swim  team  in  the  history  of  WPI  as 
they  finished  the  season  with  a  record 
of  6-2.  They  also  scored  a  most 
impressive  victory  over  Northeastern 
in  a  "practice"  meet,  to  make  Coach 
Carl  Peterson's  second  season  at  WPI  a 
memorable  one. 

After  opening  the  season  with  two 
impressive  victories,  the  mermen  ran 
into  an  extremely  strong  Tufts  Univer- 
sity team  and  lost  in  a  meet  that  was 
decided  in  the  final  event  of  the  day, 
54-41.  The  team  bounced  back,  how- 
ever, and  easily  defeated  Babson  as  the 
free-style  relay  team  broke  the  Babson 
pool  record  and,  according  to  Coach 
Peterson,  sophomore  Randy  Partridge 
of  Braintree,  Mass.,  had  his  best  day 
ever  in  the  diving  event. 

The  swimmers  lost  their  second 
and  final  meet  of  the  year  in  their  next 
outing  as  an  outstanding  Coast  Guard 
team  defeated  them  in  a  heartbreaker, 
48-47.  Senior  co-captain  Roger  John- 
son of  Hamden,  Conn.,  was  out- 
standing in  defeat  as  he  broke  his  own 


WPI  record  in  the  200-yd.  backstroke. 

In  what  Coach  Peterson  termed 
the  most  gratifying  win  of  the  season, 
the  team  came  back  to  defeat  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  for  the 
first  time  in  nine  years  and  only  the 
third  time  since  1933.  The  meet  was 
decided  in  the  last  event  as  WPI  won 
the  final  relay  by  less  than  one  second 
to  come  out  on  top  52-43.  Three  school 
records  were  set  on  the  way  to  victory, 
with  sophomore  John  Loehmann  of 
the  Bronx,  N.Y.,  leading  the  way  with 
a  new  record  in  the  individual  medley. 

The  team  finished  the  season  with 
two  easy  victories  over  Brandeis  and 
Lowell  Tech  to  finish  with  a  6-2 
record.  In  the  "practice"  meet  with  a 
strong  Northeastern  team,  the  team 
came  up  with  their  best  performance 
of  the  year,  according  to  Coach  Peter- 
son, as  they  prepared  for  the  New 
England  meet. 

In  the  strongest  showing  by  a  WPI 
swim  team  since  the  days  of  Bob 
Rounds,  '64,  "We  swam  at  the  New 
England's  the  way  we  had  been  cap- 
able of  swimming  all  year,"  said  Coach 
Peterson.  "We  swam  up  to  our  poten- 
tial there."  The  400-yd.  medley  relay 


team,  although  they  did  not  reach  the 
finals,  broke  their  own  WPI  record  by 
a  full  seven  seconds.  Sophomore  Bruce 
Eteson  of  Worcester,  lowered  his  own 
record  in  the  200-yd.  breaststroke  by 
two  seconds,  and  the  400-yd.  free- 
style relay  team  of  Dick  Ellis,  '72,  of 
Gardner,  Mass.,  senior  co-captain  Lou 
Zitnay  of  Stratford,  Conn.,  Al  Nafis, 
'72,  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  junior 
Tom  Weil  of  Staten  Island,  N.Y.,  had 
an  outstanding  day,  taking  six  seconds 
off  the  school  record. 

The  freshman  team  wound  up 
their  season  with  a  3-3  record.  Two 
outstanding  prospects  for  next  year's 
varsity  are  Fred  Baker  of  Falmouth, 
Me.,  who  was  consistently  faster  than 
the  varsity  times  in  the  backstroke, 
and  Steve  Johnson  of  Wethersfield, 
Conn.  Two  other  potential  prospects 
are  Vern  Hatt  of  Staffordville,  Conn., 
and  Steve  Cole  of  Wethersfield,  Conn., 
who,  according  to  Coach  Peterson, 
shared  the  freshman  team  award  for 
most  improvement. 

Thus,  with  a  strong  freshman  team 
and  the  loss  of  only  four  seniors, 
Coach  Peterson  is  looking  forward  to 
an  even  better  season  next  year. 


Lenny  Polizzotto  pins  his  opponent. 


THE  JOURNAL 


19 


To  All  WPI  Alumni: 


A  LETTER  FROM  YOUR 
ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION  PRESIDENT 


Dear  Fellow  Alumnus: 

I  wish  I  could  sit  down  with  each  of  you  for  a 
person-to-person  discussion  of  recent  developments  re- 
garding a  proposed  administrative  reorganization  of  our 
WPI  Alumni  Association.  In  lieu  of  our  personal  chat,  I 
would  like  to  use  The  Journal  as  the  vehicle  for  delivering 
this  important  message  to  you. 

The  past  eight  months. have  been  filled  with  action  and 
progress.  Your  representatives  have  made  outstanding  con- 
tributions and,  after  a  series  of  constructive  "cards  on  the 
table"  discussions  and  debates,  have  reached  a  position 
which  I  want  to  pass  along  to  you.  Your  individual  and 
collective  reactions  and  suggestions  are  earnestly  solicited. 

Let  me  first  give  you  a  brief  recap  of  the  developments 
since  the  summer  of  1969.  Soon  after  his  inauguration,  our 
new  president  of  WPI,  Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard,  clearly 
stated  his  conviction  that  your  Alumni  Association  repre- 
sents an  extremely  important  group  of  people.  He  has 
repeatedly  stated  that  the  future  well-being  of  private, 
independent  colleges  in  general,  and  WPI  in  particular,  is,  to 
a  very  large  degree,  dependent  upon  the  whole-hearted, 
year-in-year-out  support  of  alumni.  And  he  was  not 
referring  to  dollars  alone.  It  was  made  clear  that  our 
president  recognizes  and  stresses  the  need  for  non-financial, 
as  well  as  financial,  participation  by  our  alumni. 

Since  the  day  Dr.  Hazzard  arrived  on  our  campus,  it  has 
been    obvious    that    his    prime    objective    and    the   prime 


objective  of  our  Alumni  Association  are  one  and  the  same: 
to  do  all  we  can  for  WPI,  to  do  what  is  best  for  WPI,  and  to 
do  it  all  in  the  way  that  is  most  effective  and  best  for  WPI. 
Our  common  target  was  quickly  established. 

Prior  to  the  February,  1970  meeting  of  your  Alumni 
Council,  Dr.  Hazzard  requested  that  the  Association  give 
serious  (and  prompt)  consideration  to  an  ADMINISTRA- 
TIVE reorganization  of  the  Alumni  Association.  The 
reorganization  being  considered  is  limited  to  administrative 
and  office-type  activities  only. 

In  presenting  his  recommendations,  Dr.  Hazzard  made 
it  clear  that  he  is  proposing  nothing  that  will  reduce  the 
stature  or  functions  of  the  Alumni  Association.  On  the 
contrary,  he  visualizes  the  kind  of  dynamic,  constructive 
Association  we  all  want  and  have  been  planning  for.  It  will 
be  a  more  effective  and  powerful  Alumni  Association  than 
has  been  known  in  any  prior  period.  You,  through  your 
council  delegates,  would  continue  to  elect  your  own 
officers,  propose  your  own  budgets  before  consolidation 
into  the  overall  college  budget  proposal,  and  determine 
your  own  goals  and  programs. 

At  its  February  14,  1970  meeting,  your  Council  passed 
a  motion  that  we  consider,  between  then  and  June,  1970, 
the  suggested  consolidation  of  the  Alumni  Association 
administrative  office  into  the  Institute,  conditional  upon 
studies  of  what  would  have  to  be  done  and  what  the 
advantages  and  disadvantages  are.  The  Alumni  Association 


20 


THE  JOURNAL 


president  was  authorized  to  appoint  a  committee  to  make 
the  necessary  studies  and  to  meet  personally  with  Dr. 
Hazzard  and  his  associates.  Under  the  outstanding  chair- 
manship of  Brad  Hosmer,  '61,  this  committee,  named  the 
Administrative  Reorganization  Committee,  has  worked 
hard  and  completed  its  assignment  quickly  and  with  flying 
colors.  Each  member  of  this  committee  was  a  volunteer  and 
an  enthusiastic  participant. 

At  the  time  of  their  appointments,  the  people  on  this 
committee  represented  every  possible  attitude  toward  the 
suggested  administrative  reorganization.  In  their  lengthy 
face-to-face  discussions  with  Dr.  Hazzard  and  Mr.  Halt- 
tunen,  these  fellows  raised  just  about  every  question  you 
would  have  asked  if  all  10,000  of  you  had  been  there. 
Fund-raising,  budgeting,  control  of  the  Association,  com- 
munications, publications,  office  economies,  structure  of 
alumni  associations  at  other  colleges,  selection  and  election 
of  the  alumni  secretary,  and  active  involvement  of  alumni 
in  non-financial  working  committees  were  among  the  major 
questions  discussed  at  length.  You  may  be  assured  that  the 
subject  at  hand  has  received  exhaustive  and  meticulous 
study.  I  can  also  assure  you  that  the  WPI  president  and 
your  alumni  representatives  have  a  complete,  two-way 
understanding  of  each  other's  goals,  plans,  and  proposed 
implementation  routes.  Most  importantly,  the  two  groups, 
have  established  a  high  degree  of  mutual  respect  and 
working  rapport. 

Before  going  any  further,  I  want  to  be  sure  you  clearly 
understand  that  there  is  not,  nor  has  there  been,  during  the 
deliberations,  any  intent  or  proposal'to  affect  your  Alumni 
Association  through  absorption  of  the  Association  into  the 
college  structure.  As  far  as  your  Association  is  concerned,  it 
is  not  an  absorption,  nor  is  it  a  consolidation,  merger,  or 
acquisition. 

In  analyzing  the  duties  and  functions  of  your  Alumni 
Association  office,  it  quickly  becomes  apparent  that  in 
many  areas  there  are  administrative  branches  of  the  college 
organization  performing  similar,  overlapping,  or  contiguous 
assignments.  The  proposal  covers  combinations  of  such 
activities.  For  examples,  the  Alumni  Association  and  the 
college  would:  maintain  and  use  one  master  file  of  alumni 
for  all  purposes;  jointly  plan,  solicit,  and  record  on  a 
consolidated  basis,  all  alumni  giving  (with  all  gifts  directed 
to    WPI);    jointly   plan   and   execute   pre-admission    inter- 


viewing and  counseling;  and  eliminate  duplication  in  publi- 
cations with  the  intent  of  providing  more  effective  com- 
munication between  each  of  you  and  your  college.  Under 
the  terms  of  the  proposal,  the  alumni  secretary  would  still 
be  elected  by  the  Alumni  Council,  but  would  now  report 
administratively  to  a  member  of  the  WPI  president's  staff, 
specifically,  the  vice  president  -  university  relations.  His 
nomination  would  be  recommended  jointly  by  the  nomi- 
nating committee  of  the  Alumni  Association  and  the  vice 
president  —  university  relations. 

I  called  a  special  meeting  of  your  Executive  Committee 
and  Alumni  Council  on  April  4,  1970,  for  the  purpose  of 
receiving  Brad  Hosmer's  final  report  on  the  Administrative 
Reorganization  Committee's  fulfillment  of  the  terms  of  the 
motion  of  the  February  Council  meeting. 

The  report  recommended  that  the  Alumni  Association 
support  and  move  ahead  with  the  administrative  reorganiza- 
tion proposal;  and  that  a  full  statement  of  the  recommenda- 
tions and  conditions  be  mailed  to  every  alumnus  prior  to 
May  5,  1970.  Final  action  could  then  be  taken  at  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  Association  on  June  6,  1970. 

There  was  a  full  discussion  by  the  Council  with  Dr. 
Hazzard  of  supporting  statements,  reservations,  and  quali- 
fied opposition.  As  a  result,  there  was  a  complete  recon- 
ciliation of  all  points  of  view. 

The  motion  to  adopt  the  Administrative  Reorganization 
Committee's  report  and  present  it  to  each  of  you  for  final 
approval  at  the  June,  1970  meeting  was  unanimously 
passed  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  Council. 

The  material,  with  all  necessary  supporting  detail,  is 
now  in  your  hands.  Please  give  it  your  serious  consideration 
and  reach  your  own  conclusions  based  upon  your  feelings 
regarding  the  progress  you  desire  for  WPI.  Please  communi- 
cate your  opinions  to  your  council  delegates  in  advance  of 
the  June  meeting. 

WPI  and  the  Alumni  Association  are  entering  into  a  new 
and  exciting  era.  We  need  the  active  interest  and  participa- 
tion of  every  one  of  you. 
Best  regards, 


££/ 


Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40 

President 

Alumni  Association 


HE  JOURNAL 


21 


AN 
ALUMNUS 

COMMENTS 


Note:  The  editors  welcome  comments 
concerning  issues  of  the  JOURNAL. 
The  following  letter  is  in  response  to  "A 
Faculty  Viewpoint"  in  the  Winter 
1970  issue  of  the  JOURNAL  by  Prof. 
Roger  Borden. 

Dear  Mr.  Zepp: 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention 
to  Volume  73  of  "The  Journal",  spe- 
cifically, "A  Faculty  Viewpoint"  by 
Associate  Professor  Roger  R.  Borden. 

At  the  risk  of  appearing  cynically 
critical  of  his  expose,  may  I  suggest 
that  Professor  Borden's  presentation 
has  all  the  earmarks  of  being  just 
another  can  of  Maxwell  House  off  the 
shelf. 

In  the  last  few  years,  we  readers 
have  been  deluged  with  this  type  of 
triviality  wrapped  in  the  camouflaged 
cloak  of  "competence"  to  the  extent 
that  we  can  sympathize  with  the  Pro- 
fessor's unconscious  excursion  into 
repitiveness;  almost  logarithmic  plagia- 
rism. Succinctly,  what  he  says  is  "old 
hat". 

The  only  thing  novel,  I  think, 
about  his  analysis  of  all  the  wrongs 
that  have  been  wrought  on  young 
people  by  their  parents,  is  the  fact  that 
he  has,  with  his  assumed  and  admitted 
competence,  condemned  the  present 
world  to  "pretense,  hypocrisy,  false 
premises  and  expediency".  He  has 
suggested,  but  feebly  so,  that  he  is  a 
member  of  this  giant  colony  of  execu- 
tioners. The  pretentiousness  of  his 
writings  do  suggest  that  he  be  classi- 
fied as  a  charter  member. 

I,  too,  in  the  last  25  years  have  had 
some  experience  in  the  observation  of 
young  people,  especially  college  grad- 
uates.    Admittedly,     my     association 


period  follows  that  of  the  paternal 
protection  afforded  by  parents  and 
self  adulation  propounded  by  some 
college  professors.  These  have  been  the 
"meat  and  butter  days"  —  the  days  a 
person  mentally  and  financially  must 
become  independent;  or,  become  so 
frustrated  that  he  or  she  resorts  back 
to  a  career  student,  another  cog  in  a 
government  bureau,  or  some  lesser 
occupation  where  a  more  energetic 
person  directs  their  entire  life. 

I  would  suggest  to  Professor  Bor- 
den —  that  his  admitted  competency 
to  write  on  his  selected  subject  be 
fortified  with  additional  responsibil- 
ities to  be  blended  with  his  "teaching 
and  counseling". 

And  now,  a  few  observations  of 
my  own  about  the  youth.  First,  there 
is  no  establishment  today  that  has  not 
always  existed  between  generations 
because  of  age  differences.  The  only 
difference  is  that  the  word  is  used 
today  to  suggest  something  undisci- 
plined, because  that's  what  some  inef- 
fective frustrated  people  hope  the 
world  will  degenerate  to.  Then,  their 
appointed  wisdom  will  allow  them  to 
save  the  world. 

As  for  the  bearded,  mustached 
students  graduating  from  college,  may 
I  say  that  with  the  exception  of 
socialist  oriented,  bureaucratic,  educa- 
tionally affiliated  or  a  parasitically 
inclined  organization,  that  the  length 
of  the  students  beards  and  hair  be- 
come indirectly  proportional  to  their 
work  and  family  responsibility  and  to 
their  growing  affluence.  As  they, 
through  their  labor  and  ingenuity  be- 
come more  prosperous,  they  seem  to 
fuse  very  quickly  into  what  I  think 
Professor  Borden  refers  to  as  the  estab- 


lishment. And,  I  might  say,  converse 
to  his  pronouncement,  it  regularly 
happens  before  the  age  of  25.  Frankly, 
it  happens  when  they  face  the  respon- 
sibility of  paying  a  great  portion  of 
their  income  for  taxes  rather  than 
receiving  money  as  a  hand-out.  Only 
on  the  point  of  hand-out  can  I  agree 
with  Professor  Borden  concerning  the 
wicked  role  being  played  by  parents. 
Finally,  with  reference  to  the  next 
to  the  last  paragraph  of  his  analysis  of 
the  human  race,  may  I  suggest  that  he 
tell  his  students  that  this  country  and 
its  mankind  has  a  future,  not  if  we 
have  a  future.  My  class  of  '46  was  a 
rebel  class,  no  better,  no  worse  than 
that  of  '70.  But,  if  I'm  to  use  his 
faculty  viewpoint  as  a  criteria,  the 
difference  is  that  the  Professors  at  that 
time  instilled  in  the  students  the  fact 
that  the  world  did  not  owe  them  a 
thing.  We  were  told  that  as  we  pro- 
gressed mentally,  spiritually,  and  fi- 
nancially that  the  contemporary  world 
would  progress  with  us.  This  grad- 
uate's viewpoint  is  that  not  to  realize 
this  fact  suggest  that  one  must  be 
totally  blind  to  the  economic  facts, 
oblivious  to  the  religious  views  of 
humans,  unappreciative  of  the  giant 
strides  made  in  social  justice,  and 
quarantined  from  the  elegant  plans 
being  made  and  instituted  to  improve 
both  man's  mental  and  physical  envi- 
ronment. In  short,  an  academic  snob 
would  qualify.  No  accusations  in- 
tended. This  is  simply  a  journey  into 
semantics. 

Sincerely, 


R.  P.  Kuykendall,  '46  D 


22 


THE  JOURNAL 


FINANCIAL  AID  IS  BASED  ON 

NEED 


// 


// 


by 
EDGAR   F.  HESELBARTH 

Director  of  Financial  Aid 


A  student's  parent  went  to  see  a 
psychiatrist  and  said,  "Doctor,  I  have  a 
problem.  But  first  let  me  tell  you  I 
have  a  $100,000  home,  three  auto- 
mobiles, and  four  children  in  college." 
The  doctor  replied,  "That's  fine.  Now 
what's  your  problem?"  The  parent 
said,  "I  only  make  $60  per  week." 

It  would  appear  this  gentleman, 
indeed,  had  somewhat  of  a  "need". 
Most  financial  aid  administrators,  how- 
ever, would  probably  review  his  appli- 
cation with  a  rather  jaundiced  eye. 
Fortunately,  we  have  not  encountered 
such  a  problem,  but  as  with  all  colleges 
we  do  have  the  opportunity  to  review 
some  very  interesting  family  situa- 
tions. 

The  concept  of  "need"  in  the 
awarding  of  student  financial  aid 
seems  to  not  only  be  baffling  but 
frustrating  to  many  parents.  Fre- 
quently we  hear  from  the  parents  and 
sometimes  even  the  students  them- 
selves that  a  student  they  know,  whose 
family  lives  in  an  expensive  house,  has 
two  or  three  late  model  automobiles,  a 
summer  cottage,  etc.,  has  received 
great  quantities  of  scholarship  aid, 
while  they,  living  frugally,  have  been 
denied  the  same  opportunity.  In  fact, 
they  feel  they  have  even  been  pe- 
nalized for  having  saved  and  done 
without  luxury  items  in  order  that 
their  offspring  might  be  able  to  attend 
college.  Generally,  the  facts  do  not 
substantiate  this  information.  Now  it 
is  true,  that  there  are  colleges  which 
award   grants-in-aid  to   students  with- 


out consideration  of  the  family  finan- 
cial situation.  These  grants  are 
primarily  for  the  "purchase"  of  some 
particular  talent  such  as  athletics, 
music,  art,  etc.  Of  the  total  financial 
aid  awarded  annually  in  the  United 
States,  the  greatest  amount  by  far  is 
awarded  on  the  need  concept!  AtWPI 
all  financial  aid  is  awarded  on  the 
basis  of  need. 

Now  then,  what  is  "need"?  Finan- 
cial need  is  the  difference  between  the 
amount  of  money  a  student  and  his 
family  can  provide  for  an  education 
and  the  expense  of  that  education. 
Financial  need  is  not  a  term 
synonymous  with  poverty.  It  is  related 
to  college  expenses  as  well  as  family 
financial  strength.  While  maintaining 
its  objectively  measured  standard  of 
living,  a  family  that  would  need  sub- 
stantial financial  aid  to  send  its  stu- 
dent to  one  college  might  need  much 
less  to  meet  that  student's  expenses  at 
another  institution.  Two  elements 
must  always  be  considered: 

1.  The  amount  of  money  the  stu- 
dent and  his  family  can  reasonably  be 
expected  to  contribute  toward  a  def- 
inite period  of  education,  usually  an 
academic  year. 

2.  The  expense  of  the  education 
during  that  period  at  the  institution  of 
higher  education  the  student  plans  to 
attend. 

Financial  need  is  the  difference 
between  these  two  amounts;  the 
greater  the  difference,  the  greater  the 
need,  measured  on  a  scale  relative  to 
college  expenses. 


Who  determines  financial  need?  At 
WPI,  as  with  most  colleges  in  the 
northeastern  part  of  the  United  States, 
we  use  the  College  Scholarship  Service 
to  evaluate,  on  a  formula  basis,  the 
financial  need  of  our  applicants.  These 
formulas  give  an  objective  picture  of 
the  financial  situation  at  a  given 
moment  and  the  attempt  is  to  treat 
identical  situations  equally.  While 
there  are  rarely  two  identical  financial 
situations,  in  theory  at  least,  the 
amount  of  need  would  be  the  same  if 
there  were.  The  C.  S.  S.  analysis  is  a 
guideline  for  use  of  the  financial  aid 
administrators,  but  it  must  be  pointed 
out  that  it  is  the  college  which  makes 
the  final  determination  of  the  stu- 
dents' need  and,  of  course,  the  awards. 
I  think  it  is  important  for  parents  of 
college  students  to  understand  that  the 
C.  S.  S.  formulas  are  constantly  being 
revised.  Therefore,  it  is  possible  for  a 
family  to  be  declined  aid  one  year  and 
to  have  a  need  the  next,  even  though 
the  overall  financial  situation  has  not 
changed.  The  reverse  of  this  is  also 
true.  Therefore,  I  usually  recommend 
that  parents  with  children  in  college 
apply  for  financial  aid  every  year  (if 
they  feel  they  have  a  need)  even 
though  their  application  has  been  re- 
peatedly declined.  I  think  it  is  also 
important  for  parents  to  understand 
that  the  C.  S.  S.  formula  looks  mainly 
to  the  family  income  for  the  contri- 
bution to  the  student's  college  ex- 
penses rather  than  the  assets.  Gener- 
ally the  amount  expected  from  family 
assets  is  negligible. 


HE  JOURNAL 


23 


Alumni  Council  Meets 


The  Alumni  Council  of  the  Alumni 
Association  held  its  Winter  meeting  on 
Saturday,  February  14,  1970,  in  Mor- 
gan Hall.  Thirteen  alumni  chapters  of 
the  Association  were  represented. 

WPI  President  Dr.  George  W.  Haz- 
zard  was  introduced  to  the  Council  by 
Alumni  Association  President  Robert 
E.  Higgs,  '40.  In  speaking  to  the  group. 
Dr.  Hazzard  stated  that  he  is  very 
impressed  by  the  environment  on  the 
campus  and  by  the  spirit  and  attitude 
of  the  alumni,  and  that  because  of 
this,  he  feels  WPI  is  really  on  the 
move.  He  also  indicated  that  the  final 
Planning  Committee  report  would 
present  a  model  for  the  college  which 
would  individualize  the  instruction  of 
every  Tech  student. 

Dr.  Hazzard  introduced  an  alum- 
nus of  WPI,  Olavi  H.  Halttunen,  '45,  to 
the  Council  as  a  newly-appointed  Vice 
President  of  the  college.  He  said  he 
would  be  responsible  for  university 
relations,  which  include  public  and 
press  relations,  college  development, 
and  fund  raising. 


Dr.  Hazzard  feels  very  strongly 
that  the  college  can  operate  more 
effectively  if  a  closer  relationship 
exists  between  the  alumni  and  the 
college.  Therefore,  he  recommended 
that  the  Council  take  the  steps  neces- 
sary to  make  the  management  of 
alumni  affairs  a  part  of  the  college 
administration,  effective  as  soon  as 
possible. 

Reporting  on  the  activities  of  the 
Annual  Fund,  Alumni  Fund  Board 
Chairman  Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr., 
'44,  stated  that  contributions  were 
running  about  10%  ahead  of  the  pre- 
vious year  with  a  sum  of  $85,385.87 
having  been  contributed  as  of  January 
31,  1970. 

Encouraging  every  Council  Dele- 
gate to  voice  his  opinions  and  to 
reflect  the  feelings  of  his  local  chapter 
to  the  best  of  his  ability,  President 
Higgs  noted  that  the  question  of  reor- 
ganizing the  Alumni  Association 
should  be  thoroughly  discussed,  and 
agreement  must  be  reached  on  a  pro- 
posed course  and  time  of  action. 


A  majority  of  the  time  spent  at  the 
meeting  was  devoted  to  a  discussion  of 
the  proposed  reorganization  of  the 
Association.  While  many  ,  seemed  to 
feel  that  the  Alumni  Association  and 
the  college  might  eventually  merge, 
there  was  a  rather  widespread  lack  of 
knowledge  of  how  the  merger  would 
be  handled.  In  addition,  most  people 
seemed  to  feel  that  the  proposed 
merger  date,  as  set  by  Dr.  Hazzard, 
was  probably  too  hasty  to  provide  a 
smooth  merger.  Thus,  upon  a  motion 
by  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46B,  of  the  Wash- 
ington Chapter,  a  committee  was 
established  to  "consider  between  now 
and  June,  1970,  the  consolidation  of 
the  Alumni  Association  administrative 
office  into  the  Institute,  conditional 
upon  the  studies  of  what  would  have 
to  be  done,  and  what  the  advantages 
and  disadvantages  are.  (Furthermore,) 
the  President  of  the  Association  is  to 
appoint  a  committee  that  will  actively 
look  into  these  points  .  . .  in  con- 
junction with  representatives  of  the 
Institute  so  that  we  know  clearly  what 
has  to  be  done  and  what  it  means  to 
us." 


Trustees  Nominated 


At  the  February  14  meeting  of  the 
Alumni  Council,  three  WPI  alumni 
were  nominated  by  the  Council  to  be 
Term  Trustees  of  the  Institute.  Term 
Trustees  serve  for  a  period  of  five 
years.  They  may  be  renominated  at 
the  end  of  their  first  term  to  serve  a 
second  five-year  term,  but  at  the  end 
of  two  consecutive  terms  on  the 
Board,  they  become  ineligible  for 
renomination. 

This  year  the  Council  renominated 
for  a  second  five-year  term  Daniel  F. 
O'Grady,  '30,  and  Lincoln  Thompson, 
'21.  Mr.  O'Grady  is  currently  general 
services  manager  for  New  England 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co.  in  Bos- 
ton. While  an  undergraduate,  he  was  a 


member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  Frater- 
nity, Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Skull.  As  an 
alumnus,  he  has  served  as  the  Boston 
Alumni  Chapter  President  and  was 
President  of  the  Alumni  Association 
from  1960  to  1962.  Mr.  Thompson  is 
retired.  He  was  formerly  chairman  of 
the  board  and  chief  executive  officer 
of  Raymond  Engineering,  Inc.,  in  Mid- 
dletown,  Conn.  While  an  under- 
graduate, he  was  a  member  of  Phi 
Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity  and  Sigma  Xi 
Honorary  Society.  He  has  served  the 
Alumni  Association  as  a  Council  Rep- 
resentative, a  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee,  and  as  a  Vice  President  of 
the  Association. 

The  third   nominee  is  Thomas  B. 
Graham,  '38.  He  was  nominated  to  fill 


a  vacancy  created  because  William  E. 
Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees,  had  completed  two  suc- 
cessive terms  as  a  Term  Trustee  and 
thus  was  ineligible  for  renomination. 
Mr.  Graham  is  presently  operating 
his  own  law  firm  in  New  York  City, 
and  he  specializes  in  patent  and  trade- 
mark matters.  He  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1938,  with  distinction,  in  chemical 
engineering  and  went  on  to  receive  his 
master's  degree  from  WPI  in  1940.  He 
received  his  Juris  Doctor  degree  from 
Georgetown  University  in  1946,  and  in 
1968  WPI  awarded  him  an  honorary 
Doctor  of  Engineering  degree.  He  is  a 
Past  President  of  the  New  York 
Alumni  Chapter  and  is  a  former 
member  of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board. 


24 


THE  JOURNAI 


REUNION  WEEKEND 
JUNE  5,  6,  7,  1970 

Friday,  June  5 

Rooms  Available,  Daniels  Hall.    Check-In 

9:00  a.m.  to  Midnight 
See  Schedule  Below  for  your  Reunion 

Saturday,  June  6 

8:30-  9:30     Breakfast  for  Dorm  Guests,  Morgan  Hall 
9:00-12:00     Registration,  Morgan  Hall  Lobby 

Coffee  Time 

Meeting  of  50-Year  Associates,  Daniels  Hall  Lounge 

Class  Pictures 

Alumni  Parade 

Reunion  Luncheon,  Morgan  Hall. 

Annual  Meeting  of  Association  Follows 

Commissioning  Ceremony,  ROTC,  Alden  Memorial 


9:30-11:00 
10:30 

10:30-11:20 
11:30 
12:15 


3:00 

Sunday,  June  7 

10:00 
2:30 


Baccalaureate,  Alden  Memorial 

Commencement,  Harrington  Auditorium 
Reception  on  West  Campus  Follows 


CLASS  REUNION  SCHEDULE 


1910  Morgan  Hall  June  5 

W.  P.  I. 

1911  Sterling  Inn  June  5 
Sterling,  Mass. 

1912  Marlboro  Country  Club     June  5 

Marlboro,  Mass. 

1913  Winchendon  School      June  4-5 

Winchendon,  Mass. 

1915  To  be  announced 


1920  Franklin  Manor  June  5 

W.  Boylston,  Mass. 

1925     Worcester  Country  Club     June  5 

1930     Worcester  Country  Club     June  5 

1935  Old  Mill,  Rt.  2 A  June  5 

Westminster,  Mass. 

1940     Worcester  Country  Club     June  5 

1945   Sheraton  Yankee  Drummer  June  6 

Inn  &  Motor  House 

Auburn,  Mass. 


HE  JOURNAL 


25 


ALUMN 

FUND 

PROGRESS 

REPORT 

With  2%  months  remaining  in  the  1969-' 

70  annual  Alumni  Fund,  a  total  of  $103,605.92  has  been 

contributed  by  loyal  alumni, 

and  an  additional 

$11,449.88  has  been  contributed  by  corporations  which 

have  matching  gift  programs 

Thus,  the  total  of  the  two 

programs 

as  of  April  1 5, 

1970,  is  $115,055.80. 

Last  year  on  the  same  date  $93,878.55  had  been  contributed  by  alumni. 

The  announcement  in  February  of  a  special  Challenge  Fund  has  helped  to  boost  the  total  contribu- 

tions to  the  Fund,  and  the  oi 

tlook  from  this  viewpoint  continues  to  be  encouraging.    However,  1 

he  per- 

centage  of  participation  by  a 

umni 

is  somewhat  disappointing  as  of  April  1 5.     On 

that  date  only  26%  of 

the  alumni  had  contributed  to  the 

Fund,  which  is  a  lone 

way  from 

meeting  the  optimistic  goal  of  50% 

participation  set  by  the  Fund  Board. 

DISTRICT  SUMMARY 

April 

15,  1970 

Chap 

'er  Rank  by 

#  in 

#  of  Gifts 

% 

Total 

Average 

Chapter 

%  Participation 

Chapter 

or  Pledges 

Participation 

Dollars 

Gift 

Pittsburgh 

1 

91 

39 

43 

$      2,740.00 

$70.25 

Detroit 

2 

75 

27 

36 

901 .00 

33.37 

Northern  California 

140 

50 

36 

2,015.00 

40.30 

Southeastern 

4 

95 

33 

35 

1,292.50 

39.17 

Cleveland 

5 

98 

32 

33 

1,122.00 

35.06 

Northern  New  Jersey 

441 

145 

33 

9,289.95 

64.06 

Rhode  Island 

7 

262 

84 

32 

2,534.00 

30.17 

Rochester-Genesee 

104 

33 

32 

1,151.13 

34.88 

Boston 

9 

801 

238 

30 

8,317.00 

34.95 

Hartford 

10 

612 

179 

29 

7,249.00 

40.50 

Connecticut  Valley 

11 

350 

98 

28 

3,407.00 

34.77 
44.12 

Los  Angeles 

216 

60 

28 

2,647.38 

North  Shore 

13 

297 

81 

27 

2,770.15 

34.20 

Philadelphia 

353 

97 

27 

3,325.00 

34.27 

New  Haven 

15 

419 

107 

26 

4,557.00 

42.58 

Western  New  York 

75 

20 

26 

582.00 

29.10 

Worcester 

1,324 

346 

26 

15,917.22 

46.00 

Washington 

18 

370 

94 

25 

2,749.00 

29.24 

Central  New  York 

19 

107 

26 

24 

1,155.00 

44.42 

Hudson-Mohawk 

135 

32 

24 

1,901.13 

59.41 

New  York 

542 

133 

24 

6,087.00 

45.76 

Chicago 

22 

105 

24 

23 

1,225.00 

51.04 

Berkshire 

23 

68 

13 

19 

440.00 

33.80 

Pacific  Northwest 

37 

7 

19 

325.00 

46.43 

Wilmington 

25 

149 

24 

16 

1,240.00 

51.66 

Cincinnati 

26 

50 

5 

10 

120.00 

24.00 

Out  of  District 

— 

1,813 

352 

19 

16,123.41 

45.80 

Others  and  Honorary 
Totals 

— 

16 

26% 

2,423.05 

— 

9,129 

2,395 

$103,605.92 

$43.26 

Matching  Gifts 

11,449.88 

GRAND  TOTAL 

$115,055.80 

26 


THE  JOURNA 


Board  of  Trustees  Meet 


COMPUTER  SCIENCE  PROGRAM  APPROVED 
HANSON  ELECTED  TRUSTEE-AT-LARGE 


The  Board  of  Trustees,  at  their  midwinter  meeting  on 
February  14,  approved  a  recommendation  to  establish  a 
Department  of  Computer  Science,  effective  July  1,  1970, 
and  to  establish  a  Bachelor  of  Science  Program  in  Computer 
Science,  effective  in  September,  1970.  The  new  computer 
science  program  and  degree  will  supplement  the  master's 
degree  program  in  computer  science  which  was  approved  by 
the  trustees  in  February,  1969.  The  new  program  will 
utilize  the  facilities  of  the  Worcester  Area  College  Computa- 
tion Center  located  in  Gordon  Library.  Dr.  Norman  E. 
Sondak  is  director  of  the  center. 

The  board  elected  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32,  an 
at-large  trustee,  effective  July  1,  1970.  Dr.  Hanson,  who  is 
chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  is  currently  a  term 
trustee  and  has  served  two  five-year  terms.  Under  the 
constitution  and  by-laws  of  the  Alumni  Association,  he 
became  ineligible  for  renomination  as  a  term  trustee  this 
year  and  could  continue  to  serve  on  the  board  only  by  the 
action  of  the  trustees. 

In  other  business.  Dean  Martin  C.  Van  de  Visse 
informed  the  board  that  applications  for  admission  are 
running  about  the  same  as  last  year  with  a  freshman  class  of 
550  as  the  goal  this  year.  He  also  noted  that  the  elimination 
of  Saturday  classes  has  probably  decreased  the  student 
social  life  and  that  the  number  of  recruiters  and  the  number 
of  available  jobs  are  down  from  a  year  ago. 

Student  Government  President  Steven  A.  Udell  of 
Hewlett,  N.Y.,  presented  his  thoughts  to  the  trustees  about 
the  WPI  community.  He  mentioned  the  need  for  a  student 
union,  a  faculty  lounge,  and  a  definite  need  to  make 
student  housing  more  appealing.  He  further  stated  that  he 
felt  the  Planning  Committee  report,  if  accepted,  would  be  a 
giant  step  in  the  right  direction  for  a  successful  WPI  in  the 
future. 

In  his  report  to  the  trustees,  Dr.  Hazzard  stated,  in  part: 

This  report,  my  second,  reflects  a  snow  job.  Here  in 
Worcester,  snow  is  all  we  have  seen  since  early  December, 
huge  piles  and  streets  full  of  it.  But  the  campus  has  been 
hot  with  discussion  about  Two  Towers  III  and  the  college 


role  in  many  things.  So  the  snow  melts  fast  where  the 
discussion  is. 

The  news  media  try  to  convince  people  they  should  feel 
sorry  for  college  presidents  these  days.  They  shouldn't.  We 
never  had  a  better  opportunity  to  examine  our  goals  and 
test  our  ability  to  meet  the  challenges  of  society.  And  at 
WPI  there  is  still  a  healthy  climate  for  orderly  and 
constructive  change. 

There  are  other  reasons  why  I  am  optimistic  about  WPI. 
This  past  winter  and  fall  I  have  visited  16  alumni  chapters. 
The  alumni  enthusiasm  for  WPI,  respect  for  its  past 
accomplishments,  and  interest  in  its  future  are  exciting 
stimulants  to  a  new  president.  But  the  effect  is  visible 
elsewhere.  Everywhere  I  go  in  Worcester  I  find  the  same 
attitudes,  that  WPI  has  been  and  will  be  an  important  and 
respected  part  of  the  city.  My  objective  is  to  retain  and 
increase  that  confidence. 

Most  interesting  of  all  are  the  faculty  and  students  and 
the  "process"  that  is  our  kind  of  higher  education.  We  have 
an  excellent  student  body,  intelligent,  hard  working,  moral. 
Our  faculty  is  devoted  to  teaching  and  it,  too,  fits  the 
student  description.  Yet  here  is  the  rub. 

Many  faculty  and  students  have  responded  enthusias- 
tically to  the  proposals  in  Two  Towers  III.  Yet  many  others 
have  expressed  doubts  and  raised  objections.  The  way  they 
do  so  expresses  an  attitude  we  must  overcome  at  WPI.  It 
seems  to  be  a  lack  of  self-confidence  in  their  ability  to 
accomplish  great  things,  to  learn  on  their  own,  to  put 
themselves  at  risk  for  fear  of  failure.  Still  to  be  established 
is  a  self-image  that  properly  reflects  their  abilities  and  frees 
them  for  great  accomplishment.  To  me,  their  willingness  to 
move  ahead  into  a  unique  WPI  kind  of  education  will  be  a 
measure  of  our  success  in  this  area. 

We  are  in  the  throes  of  developing  a  long  range 
academic  plan  stating  the  goals  and  the  necessary  intellec- 
tual steps  to  reach  them.  Coupled  with  the  intellectual  must 
be  a  physical  plan  to  provide  the  environment  most  likely 
to  ensure  success.  Much  has  been  done  by  a  sub  unit  of  the 
Planning  Committee  but  a  great  deal  more  detailed  planning 


THE  JOURNAL 


27 


must  be  done  before  we  can  move  confidently  ahead.  Only 
with  a  detailed,  careful,  yet  flexible  physical  plan  can  we  be 
confident  about  our  next  moves. 

The  details  are  not  yet  clear  but  I  think  two  physical 
needs  are  essential  yet  unmet.  Even  with  the  completion  of 
the  Stoddard  Residence  Center  we  still  will  need  student 
housing  promptly.  The  only  question  is  "what  kind?" 
Secondly  we  need  better  physical  means  for  non-classroom 
interactions  by  all  parts  of  our  campus  community  —  a 
College  Center,  but  not  necessarily  the  big  all  purpose 
student  union  of  the  state  university.  With  the  help  of  a 
sub-committee  of  the  Planning  Committee,  I  believe  we  will 
produce  some  novel  but  useful  ideas.  It  is  most  important 
that  both  the  housing  and  the  center  serve  the  real  needs  of 
the  WPI  community. 

Again  this  year  the  Student  Social  Committee  is 
co-sponsoring  with  the  Worcester  Art  Museum  their  series 
of  twelve  Sunday  afternoon  free  concerts.  These  include 
performances  of  such  groups  as  the  New  York  Jazz  Sextet, 
the  Prokofiev  Quartet,  and  the- Mozarteum  Woodwind 
Quintet  from  Argentina. 

A  dream  of  students  for  almost  the  past  decade  became 
a  reality  in  late  November  when  radio  station  WICN 
received  permission  from  the  Federal  Communications 
Commission  to  begin  program  testing.  This  allowed  the 
station,  which  is  a  project  shared  by  students  of  both  WPI 
and  Holy  Cross,  to  begin  broadcasting  at  full  power  of 
2,000  watts.  This  station,  which  appears  at  90.5  megacycles 
on  the  FM  dial,  now  broadcasts  athletic  events,  campus 
news,  and  for  a  large  part  of  their  program  time,  recorded 
music. 

During  the  fall  the  newspapers  had  many  accounts  of 
student  participation  throughout  the  country  in  the  Viet- 
nam moratorium  activities.  Students  in  the  Worcester  area 
as  throughout  the  country  participated  in  October  and 
November  activities.  On  October  15  classes  were  held  as 
usual,  though  some  were  sparsely  attended  as  students  took 
part  in  discussions  concerning  the  Vietnam  war.  Some 
faculty  members  took  the  opportunity  in  the  class  period 
to  discuss  the  topic  of  the  day.  In  the  afternoon  delegations 
of  students  from  the  colleges  of  the  city  all  marched  to  the 
center  of  Worcester  for  an  outdoor  rally  in  front  of  City 
Hall  where  a  number  of  speakers  took  part.  They  heard 
talks  by  President  Jackson  of  Clark  University,  President 
Swords  of  Holy  Cross,  and  Dr.  Hoagland  of  the  Worcester 
Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology.  Commendation  is 
certainly  due  the  Worcester  Police  Department  who  worked 
with  student  leaders  in  arranging  the  routes  of  march  and 
providing  motorcycle  and  police  escorts  for  the  marching 
contingents,  protecting  them  from  traffic  hazards  on  route 
to  the  center  of  the  city. 

On  the  November  moratorium  day  the  campus  activities 
were  on  a  somewhat  smaller  scale.  One  of  the  major  efforts 
of   the   WPI   group  was  to  encourage  a  large  number  of 


'7  FIND  MYSELF 
REALLY  ENTHUSIASTIC" 


students  to  go  to  the  local  Red  Cross  Blood  Center  and 
make  a  donation  of  blood  as  an  expression  of  their  concern 
for  others. 

Our  black  students  have  found  the  WPI  experience 
generally  satisfactory.  We  hope  to  continue  or  modestly 
expand  the  admission  of  academically  qualified  black  high 
school  graduates.  The  interest  of  several  black  girls  is 
especially  encouraging  to  us  and  to  the  men  now  on 
campus. 

Several  comments  are  in  order  in  reference  to  the 
admissions  situation  this  year.  In  spite  of  the  increase  in 
tuition  effective  next  year,  interest  by  applicants  in  WPI  is 
at  an  all  time  high.  More  and  more  students  with  a  serious 
interest  in  a  technological  education  are  finding  WPI 
attractive.  Helping  to  maintain  high  quality  in  the  appli- 
cants is  a  major  contribution  of  the  Alumni  Admissions 
Counselors.  This  is  a  dedicated  group  of  several  hundred 
alumni  who  actively  have  been  seeking  out  and  counseling 
the  best  candidates  in  their  home  areas.  The  admissions 
staff  has  developed  a  program  to  inform  and  involve  these 
counselors  throughout  the  year. 

The  WPI  Society  of  Families  is  again  sponsoring  coffee 
parties  for  prospective  freshmen  and  their  families  this 
winter.  Often  co-sponsored  by  alumni  in  the  areas  where 
the  meetings  are  held,  these  parties  have  been  very  effective 
in  attracting  candidates  to  the  campus  for  a  personal 
interview.  Past  experience  indicates  that  the  campus  visit  is 
one  of  the  key  factors  in  influencing  an  applicant  to  prefer 
WPI.  A  final,  and  major,  factor  is  the  increased  financial  aid 
which  the  trustees  made  available,  starting  last  year. 

The  Stoddard  Residence  Center  construction  is  about 
on  schedule.  The  recent  bitter  cold  weather  has  slowed 
construction  though  much  work  is  going  on  under  the 
cocoon-like  protective  covering  of  wrap-around  plastic. 
These  new  residences  will  be  available  non  too  soon  as  more 
nearby  housing  falls  in  the  name  of  urban  redevelopment. 

On  January  19,  the  Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher 
Education  was  joined  by  Dr.  Lawrence  Fox,  who  became 
the  full-time  Executive  Director.  He  brings  a  wealth  of 
experience  to  this  position  after  three  years  as  Associate 
Director  of  the  Massachusetts  Advisory  Council  on  Educa- 
tion in  Boston.  The  Consortium  continues  to  be  one  of  the 
great  hopes  of  the  Worcester  academic  community  as  we 
find  more  and  more  ways  in  which  the  local  colleges  can 


28 


THE  JOURNAL 


cooperate.  There  are  now  signs  of  students  looking  for  ways 
to  take  part  in  cooperative  ventures.  You  can  see  such 
examples  in  the  cross  registration,  library  bookshuttle,  FM 
Radio  Station  or  the  Worcester  Intercollegiate  Symphonic 
Band,  and  the  groups  which  meet  at  the  Collegiate 
Religious  Center  just  off  the  WPI  campus. 

Voluntary  ROTC  seems  eminently  successful.  All  those 
now  taking  part  are  there  by  their  own  choice  which 
permits  a  more  meaningful  educational  experience  for  all 
concerned.  The  draft  lottery  had  its  effect  on  campus  as 
everyplace  in  the  country  where  young  men  of  college  age 
anxiously  watched  to  see  what  number  they  would  draw  in 
the  lottery.  Just  how  the  lottery  will  actually  affect  young 
men  in  general,  and  WPI  students  in  particular,  we  can't  tell 
yet. 

The  Tech  Community  Council  which  I  proposed  at  the 
beginning  of  the  academic  year  is  now  a  reality.  The  council 
consists  of  five  undergraduates,  on  graduate  student,  four 
faculty  members  and  three  members  of  the  administration. 
Their  first  meeting  in  January  was,  to  our  knowledge,  the 
first  time  such  a  representative  group  had  ever  met  on  this 
campus  for  the  express  purpose  of  identifying  problems  and 
needs,  with  the  responsibility  for  making  recommendations 
to  the  proper  action  group.  Several  pertinent  topics  were  on 
their  first  agenda  and  the  first  reaction  is  that  the  TCC  will 
fill  an  important  gap  in  the  campus  interaction  structure.  It 
is  our  sincere  hope  that  this  forum  for  open  discussion  will 
bring  to  the  attention  of  all  concerned  the  type  of  problems 
which,  when  not  recognized,  have  led  to  campus  unhap- 
piness  in  many  parts  of  the  country. 

Involving  students  in  the  real  problems  of  the  com- 
munity, a  major  objective  of  Two  Towers  III,  is  already  a 
reality  in  several  departments  on  campus.  Dr.  Nicholas 
Onorato  has  arranged  for  students  in  his  Business  Finance 
course  to  work  on  solving  real  financial  problems  of  local 
companies.  This  type  of  practical  experience  is  made 
possible  through  the  cooperation  of  members  of  his  School 
of  Industrial  Management  classes.  This  same  type  of  real-life 
experience  has  involved  students  in  the  Management  Engi- 
neering program  in  developing  new  products  through  the 
cooperation  of  a  Boston  firm.  Courses  taught  by  several 
faculty  members  in  other  engineering  fields  have  also 
involved  this  practical  application  approach  to  the  great 
benefit  of  both  the  students  and  the  participating  business- 
men. The  enthusiasm  on  the  part  of  students  and  the 
greater  effectiveness  of  the  learning  process,  certainly 
points  out  the  value  of  the  projects  approach  to  the  WPI 
education  programs  —  a  key  element  of  the  approach  being 
developed  by  the  Planning  Committee. 

Basketball  coaching  duties  this  year  are  being  handled 
by  two  part-time  coaches.  The  appointment  of  a  permanent 
coach  will  probably  be  made  in  the  near  future. 

The  women's  physical  education  program  has  com- 
pleted its  first  semester  with  no  problems.  Mrs.  Paula  Lantz, 
a  physical  education  college  graduate,  has  taught  the  girls 


the  fundamentals  of  swimming,  tennis  and  bowling.  As  the 
number  of  women  students  grows,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
provide  a  larger  permanent  girls'  locker  room  and  perhaps 
additional  athletic  field  facilities. 

One  of  the  values  of  the  athletic  program  which  is  not 
readily  apparent  is  the  contact  which  team  participation 
establishes  for  WPI  with  the  colleges  with  whom  we  do  not 
have  much  regular  contact  at  the  faculty  or  administrative 
levels  because  of  distance  or  differences  in  academic 
programs.  WPI  teams  have  always  deported  themselves  as 
gentlemen.  Their  dress,  behavior,  and  in  most  cases  their 
athletic  prowess  leave  an  excellent  impression  on  our 
opponents,  students,  faculties,  administrators  and  alumni. 
Our  normal  competitors  include  Dartmouth,  Harvard, 
Middlebury,  Boston  University,  Brandeis,  Amherst,  Trinity, 
Wesleyan,  Brown  and  Williams. 

Plans  are  progressing  well  for  the  Second  International 
Conference  on  Molecular  Sieve  Zeolites  to  be  held  on 
campus  September  8  to  1 1  under  the  local  chairmanship  of 
Professor  Leonard  B.  Sand.  Financial  support  in  the 
amount  of  $10,000  has  already  been  received  from  industry 
and  from  the  Petroleum  Research  Fund  to  defray  expenses. 
Ten  distinguished  speakers  will  present  invited  papers; 
seventy-five  additional  papers  have  been  selected  for  pres- 
entation. This  WPI  conference  will  report  progress  in  the 
field  since  the  first  conference  in  London  in  1967.  The  next 
meeting  is  already  being  planned  for  Zurich  in  1973. 

The  new  freshman  elective.  Introduction  to  Environ- 
mental Problems,  has  been  so  well  received  that  Dr.  Zwiebel 
of  Chemical  Engineering  and  Professor  Lantz  of  Civil 
Engineering  will  offer  it  again  during  the  second  semester. 

Consulting  with  industry  is  a  fairly  common  occupation 
for  faculty  members.  However,  Dr.  Wilmer  Kranich,  head  of 
the  Chemical  Engineering  department,  must  have  set  some 
sort  of  local  distance  record  when  he  went  to  Botswana  in 
southern  Africa  in  connection  with  a  project  for  recovery 
of  several  commercially  useful  salts  from  a  dry  lake. 

In  looking  back  over  my  first  half  year  on  campus,  I 
find  myself  really  enthusiastic  about  the  future  of  WPI. 
Many  challenges  lie  ahead  for  all  of  us.  However,  the 
prospects  for  success  are  bright.  We  have  on  this  campus  a 
dedicated  staff  of  people  who  want  the  very  best 
opportunities  for  our  students.  This  is  their  reason  for  being 
here. 

This  spirit,  the  optimism  I've  felt  on  all  sides,  the  many 
activities  which  have  been  described  in  this  letter,  all  add  up 
to  the  idea  expressed  by  an  early  president  of  Haverford 
College,  Rufus  Jones,  who  said: 

"The  most  important  thing  about  a  college  today,  after 
its  intellectual  honesty  and  integrity  are  taken  for  granted, 
is  the  way  it  reaches  the  innermost  life  of  its  students  and 
quickens  the  central  aims  and  ideals  by  which  they  are 
henceforth  to  live." 

What  I  see  here  at  WPI  is  just  that  opportunity  for 
people  who  will  play  a  central  role  in  tomorrow's  society. 


THE  JOURNAL 


29 


SEEM? 


Edwin  E.  Waite,  '03 

Edwin  E.  Waite,  '03,  passed  away  on 
December  23,  1969,  in  Framingham,  Mass. 
He  was  88. 

Born  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  May  10,  1881, 
he  graduated  from  WPI  in  1903  and  went  on 
to  become  well  known  as  an  inventive 
engineer  as  well  as  a  violinist.  He  was  a 
partner  in  the  Waite-Wilde  Co.,  manufac- 
turers, in  Framingham. 

Mr.  Waite  was  a  32nd  degree  Masop  and 
a  member  of  Alpha  Lodge  A.  F.  and  A.  M., 
and  the  Williamsport  (Pa.)  Consistory.  He 
was  also  a  reader  at  the  Christian  Science 
Church  of  Framingham. 

He  is  survived  by  a  son;  a  daughter, 
three  grandchildren;  and  four  great- 
grandchildren. 

Charles  T.  Willard,  '03 

Charles  T.  Willard,  '03,  died  on  January 
28,  1970,  at  a  nursing  home  in  Madison, 
N.J.,  at  the  age  of  88. 

Mr.  Willard  was  born  in  Worcester, 
Mass.,  on  January  16,  1882,  and  he  at- 
tended Worcester  Classical  High  School.  He 
entered  WPI  in  the  fall  of  1899  and  grad- 
uated in  1903  with  a  degree  in  chemistry. 
He  retired  in  1957  as  chief  metallurgist  for 
the  Singer  Manufacturing  Co.,  Elizabeth- 
port,  N.J.,  after  53  years  service. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  the  Echo  Lake  Golf  Club 
of  Westfield,  N.J.,  an  honorary  member  and 
founding  trustee  of  Vail-Deane  School  in 
Elizabeth,  and  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  Fraternity. 

Mr.  Willard  is  survived  by  two  daughters; 
six  grandchildren;  and  two  great-grandsons. 

Frank  G.  Webber,  '04 

Frank  G.  Webber,  '04,  died  on  January 
7,  1970,  in  Winter  Haven,  Fla.  He  was  88. 

Born  in  N.  Brookfield,  Mass.,  on  July 
11.  1881,  he  attended  N.  Brookfield  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  in  1900.  He 
graduated  in  1904  with  a  degree  in  electrical 
engineering. 

Mr.  Webber  was  employed  by  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co.  in  Chicago,  A. 
Burlmgame  Co.  and  O.  S.  Kendall  Co.,  both 
of  Worcester,  before  he  joined  the  Holyoke 


(Mass.)  Valve  &  Hydrant  Co.  in  1910.  He 
retired  in  1967  as  president  of  that  com- 
pany. 

He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
and  a  past  master  of  the  William  Whiting 
Lodge  of  A.  F.  and  A.  M. 

He  is  survived  by  a  son,  Frederick  G. 
Webber,  '34;  a  daughter;  a  brother;  and  a 
sister. 

George  W.  Woodward,  '08 

George  W.  Woodward,  '08,  died  in  a 
Hartford  (Conn.)  nursing  home  on  De- 
cember 24,  1969,  at  the  age  of  84. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  May  25, 
1885  and  he  entered  WPI  in  1904.  While  at 
WPI  he  was  a '  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  Fraternity.  He  was  treasurer  of  his 
freshman  class.  He  received  his  bachelor's 
degree  from  Cornell  University  in  1909. 

Mr.  Woodward  was  employed  by  the 
Factory  Insurance  Association  of  Hartford, 
Conn.,  from  1909  to  1914.  In  1914  he  left 
that  company  to  join  Rockwood  Sprinkler 
Co.  of  Worcester,  where  he  remained  until 
1931.  In  1931  he  returned  to  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  and  was  employed 
there  until  he  retired  in  1956. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Masons,  the 
City  Club  of  Hartford,  and  the  Avon  Coun- 
try Club. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Lylian 
(Weisner)  Woodward;  a  daughter;  two  broth- 
ers; a  sister;  two  grandchildren;  and  a 
great-grandchild. 

Alfred  N.  Chase,  '10 

Alfred  N.  Chase,  '10,  died  in  Joplin, 
Mo.,  on  August  24,  1969,  after  a  long 
illness.  He  was  82. 

Mr.  Chase  was  born  on  May  27,  1887,  in 
New  Bedford,  Mass.,  and  he  attended  sec- 
ondary school  in  that  city.  He  entered  WPI 
in  1906  and  graduated  in  1910  with  a 
degree  in  chemistry.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity,  and  he  was 
elected  permanent  class  treasurer. 

He  was  employed  by  the  Atlas  Powder 
Co.  (now  Atlas  Chemical  Co.)  in  Joplin, 
Mo.,  for  42  years  prior  to  his  retirement  in 
1952.  He  was  plant  manager  at  the  Joplin 
explosives  plant. 


Mr.  Chase  was  married  in  Houghton, 
Mich.,  on  August  21,  1911,  to  Mayme  A. 
MacCarthy.  She  passed  away  in  1968.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  Elks  and  the  Twin 
Hills  Golf  and  Country  Club  in  Joplin. 

He  is  survived  by  a  brother,  Robert  E. 

John  L.  Harvey,  '10 

John  L.  Harvey,  '10,  died  on  February 
3,  1969,  in  Winter  Haven,  Fla. 

Mr.  Harvey  was  born  on  June  7,  1889, 
at  Norton,  Mass.,  and  attended  Attleboro 
(Mass.)  High  School.  He  came  to  WPI  in 
1906  and  graduated  in  1910  with  a  degree 
in  electrical  engineering.  He  was  a  member 
of  Delta  Tau  Fraternity,  which  is  now  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon. 

Mr.  Harvey  was  employed  from  1922 
until  his  retirement  by  the  Niagara  Mohawk 
Power  Corp.  in  Albany,  N.Y.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Elec- 
trical Engineers,  the  New  York  State  Soci- 
ety of  Professional  Engineers,  and  the 
Albany  (N.Y.)  Society  of  Engineers. 

Daniel  J.  Riordan,  '11 

Daniel  J.  Riordan,  '11,  of  Collinsville, 
Conn.,  died  on  January  4,  1970,  after  a 
brief  illness.  He  was  78. 

He  was  born  on  February  2,  1891,  in 
Worcester,  Mass.,  and  he  attended  Worcester 
Classical  High  School  before  entering  WPI  in 
1907. 

Mr.  Riordan  was  employed  by  American 
Steel  &  Wire  Co.  of  Worcester  for  three 
years  and  by  Reed-Prentice  Co.  of  Worcester 
for  ten  years  before  he  joined  the  Collins 
Co.  of  Collinsville,  Conn.,  in  1925.  He  was 
employed  there  for  over  40  years  and  was 
production  manager  at  the  time  of  his 
retirement  in  1965. 

Survivors  include  his  wife,  Mrs.  Ellen 
(Elliott)  Riordan;  and  a  sister,  Mrs.  Grace 
Quinn. 

Leon  J.  Croteau,  '14 

Leon  J.  Croteau,  '14,  died  in  Fairlawn 
Hospital,  Worcester,  on  February  5,  1970, 
at  the  age  of  82. 

Born  June  6,  1887,  in  Worcester,  he 
attended  Williston  Seminary  before  entering 
WPI  in  1911.  He  received  an  LLB  degree 
from  Northeastern  University  in  1921.  and 
he  also  received  a  degree  in  graphology,  the 
analyzing  of  handwriting,  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Missouri 

Mr.  Croteau  was  a  lifelong  resident  of 
Worcester  and  was  a  lawyer  and  handwriting 
analyst  for  35  years  prior  to  his  retirement 
in  1965.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
County  Bar  Association,  the  Tech  Old 
Timers,  the  Tougas  Family  Association,  and 
the  Union  St.  Jean  Baptiste  Society. 


30 


THE  JOURNAL 


He  leaves  his  widow,  Mabel  E.  (Turpin) 
Croteau;  a  daughter;  a  stepdaughter;  a 
brother;  four  sisters;  and  nine  grandchildren. 

Louis  T.  Hamblin,  '14 

Louis  T.  Hamblin,  '14,  died  on  January 
12,  1970,  in  Worcester's  Fairlawn  Hospital. 
He  was  76. 

Born  in  Worcester  in  1893,  he  attended 
Worcester  Classical  High  School  before 
entering  WPI  in  1910.  He  later  withdrew 
from  WPI,  and  he  received  a  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  Cornell  Uni- 
versity in  1 91  5.  He  was  elected  to  member- 
ship in  Tau  Beta  Pi  honorary  society. 

Mr.  Hamblin  was  a  former  officer  of 
Bowker-Hamblin-Quirk,  Inc.,  of  Worcester 
and,  at  the  time  of  his  retirement,  was 
president  of  that  company.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  Paxton  (Mass.)  board  of 
selectmen  for  many  years,  the  Worcester 
Club,  the  Sons  of  Paxton,  and  the  Univer- 
sity Club  of  Worcester. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Esther 
(Scott)  Hamblin;  and  a  nephew,  Richard  H. 
Hazelton. 

Harold  F.  Brown,  '15 

Harold  F.  Brown,  '15,  passed  away  on 
January  5,  1970,  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  at  the 
age  of  77.  His  death  followed  a  brief  illness. 

A  native  of  Gardner,  he  attended 
Gardner  High  School  before  entering  WPI  in 
1911.  He  majored  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering. 

Mr.  Brown  was  president  and  treasurer 
of  Brown  Brothers  Chair  Manufacturing  Co. 
of  Gardner  from  1916  until  1954,  and  in 
1954  he  purchased  Brown  and  Lee,  Inc.,  in 
Gardner  and  became  president  and  treas- 
urer. He  operated  that  company  until  his 
retirement  in  1969. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Sons  of  Union 
Veterans,  a  vice  president  and  director  of 
the  Chairtown  Cooperative  Bank  in  Gard- 
ner, and  a  very  active  member  of  the 
Masons. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  Jessie 
(Lusk)  Brown;  and  several  cousins. 

Harold  W.  Howarth,  '16 

Harold  W.  Howarth,  '16,  died  on  Feb- 
ruary 13,  1970,  in  Atlanta,  Ga.  He  was  75. 

Mr.  Howarth  was  born  in  Lawrence, 
Mass.,  on  December  29,  1894,  and  attended 
preparatory  school  at  Webster  (Mass.)  High 
School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1912  and  while 
at  Tech  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  Fraternity. 

He  was  a  long-time  employee  of  Robert 
and  Company  Associates  in  Atlanta  and  was 
chief  engineer  and  project  manager  for  that 
company  on  some  of  their  largest  projects. 


Mr.  Howarth  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason, 
a  member  of  the  Atlanta  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  the  Georgia  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers,  and  the  American  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers.  He  was  also  a  past 
president  of  the  Architects  and  Engineers 
Institute,  the  Atlanta  Chapter  of  the  Navy 
League,  and  he  continued  to  be  very  active 
in  his  fraternity  and  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs.  Ruby 
(Quinn)  Howarth;  a  daughter;  a  son;  two 
sisters;       and       two       grandchildren. 

Edward  E.  Wolfe,  '20 

Edward  E.  Wolfe,  '20,  died  on  August  6, 
1969,  in  a  Kansas  City  (Mo.)  hospital. 

Born  on  January  9,  1899,  in  Worcester, 
Mass.,  he  attended  South  High  School  in 
Worcester  before  enrolling  at  WPI  in  1916. 
He  graduated  in  1920  with  a  BS  degree  in 
chemistry. 

Mr.  Wolfe  spent  most  of  his  life  in 
Missouri.  He  was  employed  by  the  city  of 
Hannibal,  Mo.,  as  a  chemist  for  1 8  years  and 
most  recently  had  been  employed  by  West- 
ern Chemical  Co.  in  Kansas  City  as  technical 
director. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Water  Works  Association,  the  American 
Society  of  Refrigeration  Engineers,  the 
American  Society  of  Corrosion  Engineers, 
and  he  was  a  Mason. 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  . 

Perhaps  you  can't  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back :  20  " 
Price:  $31.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON  ROCKER 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  271^" 
Price:  $40.00 


Dr.  Robert  E.  Bateson,  '24 

Dr.  Robert  E.  Bateson,  '24,  died  on 
January  22,  1970,  in  Sun  City  Center,  Fla. 

Dr.  Bateson  was  born  in  Hopedale, 
Mass.,  and  attended  Hopedale  High  School. 
He  graduated  from  WPI  in  1924  with  a 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering.  While  at  Tech  he  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity  and  was 
active  in  musical  organizations.  He  later 
went  on  to  receive  both  a  master's  and  a 
doctorate  degree  from  New  York  University 
in  1946  and  1950,  respectively. 

He  worked  for  the  Campbell  Soup  Co. 
as  a  maintenance  engineer  and  for  the 
Draper  Corp.  as  a  design  engineer  before  he 
entered  the  field  of  education.  He  retired  in 
1965  after  serving  on  the  faculty  of  Central 
Connecticut  State  College,  New  Britain, 
Conn.,  for  23  years.  He  was  a  specialist  in 
industrial  and  vocational  education. 

He  was  a  member  of  numerous  educa- 
tional and  professional  societies,  a  32nd 
degree  Mason,  a  member  of  the  New  Britain 
Rotary  Club,  and  a  registered  professional 
engineer. 

Dr.  Bateson  is  survived  by  his  widow, 
Clara  S.  Bateson;  and  by  two  daughters. 

Joseph  Matulaitis,  '29 

Joseph  Matulaitis,  '29,  died  on  February 
10,  1970,  at  Arlington  (Va.)  Hospital  after 
suffering  a  heart  attack.  He  was  61 . 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21 " 
Price :  $44.00      (Black  Arms) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $45.00     (Cherry  Arms) 


Send  your  remittance  and  make  checks  payable  to 

W.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

All  chairs  shipped  express  prepaid  to  points  within  125  miles  of  Gardner,  Mass. 

For  all  other  points,  deduct  84.00  from  prices  for  express  collect  shipment. 


HE  JOURNAL 


31 


Andrew  B.  Holmstrom, 


Andrew  B.  Holmstrom,  '17,  prominent 
Worcester  citizen  and  industrialist,  passed 
away  on  January  13,  1970,  at  the  age  of  74. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  entered  WPI  in 
1913  and  graduated  in  1917  with  a  bachelor 
of  science  degree  in  civil  engineering.  He  was 
elected  to  membership  in  Chi  Epsilon,  the 
national  civil  engineering  honor  society.  In 
June  of  1968,  his  alma  mater  awarded  him 
an  honorary  doctor  of  engineering  degree. 

Most  of  Mr.  Holmstrom's  life  was  de- 
voted to  working  for  the  city  of  Worcester 
and  for  the  Norton  Co.  of  Worcester.  After 
serving  in  the  Navy  for  two  years,  he  joined 
the  Norton  Co.  in  1919  as  a  design  and 
construction  engineer.  He  left  that  company 
in  1924  to  become  superintendent  of  sewers 
for  the  city  of  Worcester,  a  position  he  held 
for  five  years.  He  rejoined  Norton  in  1929 
and   rose  to  be  named  vice  president  and 


He  was  born  June  30,  1908,  in  Worces- 
ter and  attended  Classical  High  School  here 
before  graduating  from  WPI  in  1929  with  a 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

Mr.  Matulaitis  worked  for  the  Federal 
Aviation  Administration  for  17  years  and 
the  Army  Materiel  Command  for  16  years. 
He  was  serving  as  chief  of  the  Systems 
Branch  of  the  Air  Mobility  Division  of  the 
Research  and  Development  and  Engineering 
Directorate  at  the  Army  Medical  Command 
headquarters  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Anne;  two 
daughters;  and  two  grandchildren. 


Edward  D.  Chase,  '34 

Edward  D.  Chase,  '34,  of  Hingham, 
Mass.,  died  suddenly  on  January  9,  1970, 
after  suffering  a  heart  attack  at  his  home. 
He  was  57. 

Chase  was  born  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  on 
March  2,  1912,  and  entered  WPI  in  1930 
after  attending  Springfield  Technical  High 
School.  He  graduated  in  1935  with  a  degree 
in  civil  engineering. 

After  graduation  from  college,  Mr. 
Chase  was  employed  by  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey  for  a  year  before  he  joined  the  U.S. 
Army's  Corps  of  Engineers.  At  the  time  of 


works  manager  of  the  Abrasives  Div.  in 
1940.  Upon  his  retirement  in  1960,  after  36 
years  with  the  company,  he  was  vice  presi- 
dent and  a  director  of  Norton.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  Worcester  City  Council  from 
1950  to  1967  and  was  elected  mayor  of 
Worcester  in  1950,  thus  becoming  the  first 
mayor  of  Worcester  under  the  city  manager 
form  of  government. 

He  was  active  in  numerous  civic,  frater- 
nal, and  engineering  organizations.  Among 
these,  he  was  a  member  of  the  Development 
Program  Cabinet  of  WPI  during  the  Centen- 
nial Fund  program,  vice  chairman  of  the 
Advisory  Board  of  Quinsigamond  Com- 
munity College,  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Worcester  Council  of 
Churches,  a  member  of  the  board  of  trustees 
of  the  Bay  State  Society  for  the  Crippled 
and  Handicapped,  Inc.,  and  a  Mason. 

"I  believe  in  energy,"  Holmstrom  had 
once  said.  "I  believe  in  life.  I  believe  in 
order.  I  believe  in  beauty,  and  thought  and 
conscience,  and  in  love  which  is  brother- 
hood and  charity.  I  believe  that  the  numer- 
ous recently  found  tools  of  human  desires 
such  as  those  attained  in  the  field  of 
electronics  and  atomic  research,  serve  only 
to  reaffirm  the  energy,  the  life,  and  the 
order  that  I  recognize,  in  part,  as  God's 
design."  And  thus  Andy  lived. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Jennie  E.  Holm- 
strom, of  Worcester;  four  daughters;  two 
sisters;  and  eleven  grandchildren. 


his  death  he  was  assistant  chief  of  the 
Engineering  Division  in  Waltham,  Mass.,  and 
held  a  prominent  position  in  the  planning 
and  design  of  many  major  construction 
projects.  He  had  recently  been  the  recipient 
of  the  Army's  Outstanding  Performance 
Citation. 

He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
in  Maine,  a  member  of  the  Boston  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers,  the  Hingham  Historical 
Society,  and  a  past  president  of  the  Hing- 
ham Men's  Club. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  Dorothy 
(Abbott)  Chase,  and  two  daughters,  Susan 
and  Andrea.  A  son,  Lt.  Curtis  E.,  died  in 
action  in  Vietnam  in  1967. 

Walter  F.  Graham,  '40 

Walter  F.  Graham,  '40,  died  on  Decem- 
ber 2,  1969. 

He  was  born  on  June  23,  1918,  in 
Worcester,  Mass.,  and  he  entered  WPI  in 
1936,  graduating  in  1940  with  an  electrical 
engineering  degree.  He  was  selected  for 
membership  in  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Mr.  Graham  had  been  employed  at  the 
U.S.  Navy  Underwater  Sound  Lab  in  New 
London,  Conn.,  as  an  electrical  engineer. 

Among  his  survivors  are  two  brothers, 
Martin  B.,  '35.  and  Thomas  B.,  '38. 


Theodore  A.  Kostarides,  '41 

Theodore  A.  Kostarides,  '41,  died  sud- 
denly at  Newport  (R.I.)  Hospital  on  January 
28,  1970.  He  was  50. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  attended 
Classical  High  School  before  enrolling  at 
WPI  in  1937.  He  graduated  in  1941  with  a 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  electrical 
engineering. 

Mr.  Kostarides  was  an  electrical  engineer 
at  the  Raytheon  Co.,  Burlington,  Mass.,  and 
had  been  stationed  at  the  Newport  Naval 
Base  for  the  past  1 5  years.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  board  of  St.  Spyridon's  Church  in 
Newport,  and  a  member  of  the  Lions  Club 
and  the  Masons. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Ariadne 
(Sarando)  Kostarides;  a  son,  Anestis  T.  II; 
and  a  daughter,  Miss  Chrysanthe. 

Raymond  K.  Gardner,  '53 

Raymond  K.  Gardner,  '53,  was  fatally 
injured  in  Andover,  Mass.,  on  January  25, 
1970,  when  a  jack  slipped  from  the  car  he 
was  working  on  and  pinned  him  under  the 
vehicle.  He  was  38. 

Mr.  Gardner  was  born  in  Meriden, 
Conn.,  on  September  26,  1931.  He  entered 
WPI  in  1949  and  received  a  BS  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  in  1953.  While  in 
college  he  participated  in  the  band,  the 
paddle  rush,  and  the  rope  pull,  and  he  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity. 

He  had  been  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  by  Dynametrics  Corp.,  Burlington, 
Mass.,  as  a  project  engineer  by  Corning  Glass 
Works,  Corning,  N.Y.,  and,  at  the  time  of 
his  death,  he  was  an  engineer  at  Dionics 
Corp.,  Woburn,  Mass.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Judith  L. 
(Sample)  Gardner;  three  sons,  James,  Mark, 
and  Scott;  a  daughter,  Susan;  his  mother, 
Mrs.  Walter  Gardner;  and  three  sisters. 

Mark  H.  Sannella,  '57 

Mark  H.  Sannella,  '57,  died  on  Decem- 
ber 30,  1969,  in  Worcester,  after  a  long 
illness.  He  was  34. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  December  4, 
1935,  he  was  the  son  of  Frank  and  Helen 
Sannella.  (Frank  is  the  cross  country  and 
relay  coach  at  WPI.)  Mark  was  graduated 
from  Oxford  (Mass.)  High  School  and  en- 
tered WPI  in  1953.  He  received  a  bachelor 
of  science  degree  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  in  1961  with  a  major  in  hotel 
and  food  management. 

Mr.  Sannella  was  a  hotel  manager  for  the 
Indian  Hills  Motel,  Richmond,  Va..  until  his 
retirement  in  1967  because  of  ill  health.  He 
had  served  as  assistant  librarian  in  Oxford 
for  the  last  two  years. 

Besides  his  parents,  he  is  survived  by  a 
sister.  Miss  Lee  Ann  Sannella. 


32 


THE  JOURNAI 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1903 

Benjamin  D.  Foot  was  recently  honored 
by  the  choirs  of  two  churches  on  the  eve  of 
his  90th  birthday.  Mr.  Foot,  who  lives  in 
Scotia,  N.Y.,  attends  rehearsals  at  both 
churches  each  week  and  sings  with  the  two 
choirs  on  Sunday  mornings.  He  was  em- 
ployed by  G.  E.  for  43  years  prior  to  his 
retirement  in  1946. 


1908 

Royal  W.  Davenport  of  Silver  Springs, 
Md.,  writes:  "Things  are  going  well  for  us. 
During  the  last  year  we  spent  the  seven 
cooler  months  here  in  Rossmoor  Leisure 
World  and  the  five  warmer  months  in  Stone 
Harbor,  N.J.  The  latter  has  the  fresh  sea  air 
that  is  a  relieving  contrast  to  the  more 
humid  air  of  inland  places.  It  is  a  good  place 
for  entertaining  grandchildren  and  relatives. 
We  continue  to  be  enthusiastic  with  our 
setup  at  Leisure  World.  Anyone  interested 
would  do  well  to  investigate  the  place." 

Donald  D.  Simonds, 
Secretary 

1909 

Leslie  E.  Swift,  who  lives  in  Bethlehem, 
Pa.,  reports  that  he  and  his  wife  are  in  fairly 
good  health  and  are  grandparents  of  three 
and  great-grandparents  of  a  ten-month-old 
boy. 

1910 

Millard  F.  Clement  writes:  "I  am  look- 
ing forward  to  the  60th-year  reunion  of  the 
class  of  1910  with  as  many  present  as 
possible.  Really  have  enjoyed  retirement 
including  the  celebration  of  our  50th  wed- 
ding anniversary  last  July."  Millard  lives  in 
Middletown,  N.Y. 

1912 

Ernest  R.  (Nibs)  Taylor  had  an  active  1 1 
months  in  1969  with  outdoor  work  (we  still 
would  like  to  see  that  electric  hoe).  Every- 


thing was  going  fine  until  December  when 
both  Nibs  and  Myrt  were  taken  with  the  flu. 
But  he  is  very  much  alive  and  expects 
another  11  months  of  activity  and  will  be 
cautious  next  December.  .  .  I  don't  remem- 
ber hearing  from  George  I.  Gilchrest  since 
graduation.  Now  he  sent  me  a  colored 
picture  of  roadrunners,  cuckoo  birds  which 
live  happily  in  Arizona.  George  lives  in  Mesa 
but  spends  summers  in  hillbilly  western 
Maryland.  .  .  Guy  C.  Hawkins  has  been 
spending  winters  in  Arizona.  Now  has  sold 
out  in  Vermont  and  will  live  permanently  in 
Tucson.  .  .  Of  the  35  men  of  1912,  18  of  us 
still  resist  the  rigors  of  New  England. 

Harrison  G.  Brown 
Secretary 

1915 

Maurice  G.  Steele  writes:  "Sold  my 
eleven-year-old  business  on  January  1,  1969. 
Am  continuing  on  as  president  of  the 
company  which  is  known  as  M.  G.  Steele, 
Inc.  The  prospect  of  retirement  continues  to 
recede."  Maurice  lives  in  Rome,  N.Y. 

1917 

Walter  H.  Gifford  writes:  "Enjoying 
good  health  for  a  50-year  plus  alumnus. 
Divide  my  time  between  Cape  Cod  in  the 
winter  and  Maine  in  the  summer.".  .  .  From 
Weston,  Conn.,  comes  a  note  from  Moses  H. 
Teaze:  "Have  reached  the  'ripe  old  age'  of 
81.  .  .  with  three  fine  children  (all  over  40), 
nine  grandchildren,  and  3'/2  great-grand- 
children". 

1918 

Maurice  W.  Richardson  is  employed  10 
months  of  the  year  by  the  Amsterdam 
(N.Y.)  Community  Chest  as  its  executive 
secretary.  He  retired  in  1961  after  38  years 
with  Mohasco  Industries,  Inc.,  in  Amster- 
dam. 

1922 

Neil  T.  Heffernan  continues  as  President 
of  Heffernan  Press,  Inc.,  in  Worcester. 
Heffernan  Press  is  one  of  the  largest  family- 
owned  printing  businesses  left  in  New 
England. 

1923 

Married:  Claude  M.  Lamb  to  Mrs. 
Dorothea  E.  Rogers  on  November  22,  1969, 
in  Laconia,  N.H.  Mr.  Lamb  is  retired.  The 
couple  is  making  their  home  in  Laconia. 


1924 

Godfrey  J.  Danielson  retired  on  May  1, 
1969,  from  the  New  York  State  Public 
Service  Commission.  .  .  Leslie  J.  Hooper, 
Professor  Emeritus  of  Hydraulic  Engineering 
and  Director  Emeritus  of  Alden  Research' 
Labs  at  WPI,  was  recently  named  to  a 
special  water  study  commission  by  Massa- 
chusetts Governor  Sargent.  In  addition,  on 
February  24,  1970,  he  received  the  Worces- 
ter Engineering  Society's  annual  Science 
Achievement  Award  for  outstanding  con- 
tribution in  the  field  of  hydraulic  engi- 
neering, pollution  control,  and  water  re- 
sources. 


CORRECTIONS 

Harold  B.  Whitmore,  '21,  should  have 
been  listed  as  a  lifetime  contributor  in  the 
report  of  the  1968-69  Annual  Alumni  Fund. 

It  should  have  been  noted  in  the  Class 
Notes  section  of  the  Fall  Journal  that 
Edmond  G.  Reed,  '23,  held  a  position  as 
Town  Engineer  in  Agawam,  Mass.  prior  to 
his  retirement. 


We  welcome 
your  comments 

and  ideas 
concerning  the 

publication 
of  the  Journal. 


Please  address: 

Editor,  The  Journal 
Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester, 
Mass.  01609 


THE  JOURNAL 


33 


Class  of  1930 
40th  Reunion 

Worcester  Country  Club 
June  5, 1970 

Ed   Delano   will   be  riding  a  bicycle  from  California  to 
Worcester  to  attend  the  reunion.    Can't  vou  make  it,  too? 


1925 

David  C.  Bailey  retired  from  the  Bailey 
Co.,  Amesbury,  Mass.,  on  January  31,  1970. 
He  had  been  president  of  the  company  since 
1951. 

1926 

Arthur  Ft.  Brown  has  retired  from  West- 
inghouse  Electric  Corp.,  and  is  living  in  Sun 
City,  Calif. 


1928 

Gordon  E.  Rice  reports  that  he  retired 
from  Agway  Inc.  of  Syracuse,  N.Y.,  on 
January  1,  1969,  and  he  is  very  busy  doing 
consultant  work.  ..  Arthur  T.  Simmonds 
writes:  "I  retired  on  May  1,  1969,  as 
director  of  hydro  production  from  the  New 
England  Power  Co.,  Lebanon,  N.H.,  after 
over  40  years  of  service.  I  am  now  settled 
down  in  Littleton,  N.H." 


N.C.  .  .  .  Codman  &  Shurtleff,  Inc.,  of  Ran- 
dolph, Mass.,  employs  Eben  H.  Rice  as  their 
executive  vice  president.  He  reports  that  he 
married    Johanna    Karwath   on    January    8, 

1968,  and  that  they  are  the  parents  of  a 
daughter,  Rebecca  Jo. 

1932 

Clement  R.  Barlow  retired  on  June  30, 

1969,  from  Heller  Tool  Co.  in  Newcomers- 
town,  Ohio.  .  .  Also  recently  retired  is 
Rocco  N.  LaPenta.  He  is  now  living  in  New 
Britain,  Conn. 

1933 

After  spending  more  than  32  years  with 
Friden,  Inc.,  Thomas  E.  Decker  has  joined 
Computer  Services  Center,  Inc.,  in  Worces- 
ter. The  company  is  a  newly  formed  sub- 
sidiary of  Worcester  Bancorp,  Inc.,  and  Tom 
is  a  salesman  for  the  company. 

Arthur  O.  Andersen  has  been  named 
general  patent  attorney  by  The  Trane  Co.  in 
La  Crosse,  Wis.  Art  joined  Trane  in  1947 
after  ten  years  as  a  patent  examiner  for  the 
U.S.  Patent  Office.  .  .  The  manager  of  the 
Fabrics  and  Finishes  Plant  of  E.  I.  duPont 
deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  in  Leominster, 
Mass.,  is  Albert  O.  Bell. 


1927 

Married:  Joseph  J.  Sears  to  Mrs.  Janet 
Carples  Magod  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  on 
January  8,  1970.  The  couple  will  reside  in 
W.  Hartford. 

C.  Sture  Carlson  reports  that  he  retired 
from  the  Central  Engineering  Dept.  of 
Norton  Co.  of  Worcester  in  April, 
1969.  .  .  Harold  B.  Mallett  has  retired  from 
the  American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Wallingford, 
Conn.,  and  he  is  now  living  in  Boca  Raton, 
Fla.  .  .  Carleton  R.  Sanford  also  retired  re- 
cently. He  was  employed  by  Eastman 
Kodak  Co.  in  Rochester,  N.Y.,  as  assistant 
manager  of  the  film  sensitizing  and  plate 
organization.  He  now  makes  his  home  in 
Walnut  Creek,  Calif. 

Clifford  I.  Fahlstrom  is  vice  president  of 
the  Associated  Industries  of  Massachu- 
setts. .  .  Nathan  M.  Southwick  writes:  "As  a 
retired  man  I'm  getting  more  involved  with 
church  and  allied  work.  Started  on  the 
MEALS  ON  WHEELS  program  in  Feb. 
1969,  delivering  hot  meals  to  needy 
elderly.  .  .  now  involved  in  a  new  program 
called  'Leisure  and  Learning'.  .  .  for  the  re- 
tired. .  .  In  addition,  I'm  driving  patients  for 
the  Red  Cross  to  the  various  hospitals.  . 
Not  enough  hours  in  the  day!"  Nathan  lives 
in  Warwick,  R.I. 


1929 

Wayne  S.  Berry  has  retired  from  Under- 
writers' Laboratories  in  Melville,  N.Y.,  after 
over  40  years  of  service. 


1930 

Henry  O.  Allen  retired  on  May  1,  1969, 
after  a  career  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.  .  .  David  K.  Bragg  has  retired  from  the 
Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass.,  where  he  was 
a  member  of  the  research  dept. 


1931 

F.  Dudley  Chaffee  writes:  "For  thirty 
years  I  have  been  in  charge  of  operations 
and  maintenance  at  six  different  colleges  or 
universities  and  while  not  rich,  I  have 
enjoyed  every  minute  of  that  work.  For  the 
last  five  years  I  have  been  in  charge  of 
planning  and  new  construction  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  North  Carolina  at  Greensboro. 
Here,  I  have  been  and  am  supervising  over 
S30  million  in  new  construction.".  .  . 
Russell  V.  Corsini  is  president  of  Denholm 
&  McKay,  a  department  store  in  Worces- 
ter. .  .  C.  Russell  Gill  is  market  manager, 
textiles,  for  ICI  America,  Inc.,  of  Stamford, 
Conn.  He  currently  is  residing  in  Charlotte, 


1934 

Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Co.  employs 
Charles  J.  Egan  as  a  marketing  research 
associate.  .  .  Howard  E.  Stockwell  is  director 
of  hydro  production  for  the  New  England 
Power  Co.  in  Lebanon,  N.H.  He  has  been 
with  the  company  for  35  years. 


1935 

Karl  H.  Bohaker  is  vice  president, 
marketing,  for  Potter  &  Brumfield,  a  divi- 
sion of  American  Machine  &  Foundry  Co. 
He  resides  in  Princeton,  Ind.  .  .  J.  Russell 
Hemenway  is  a  sales  proposal  engineer  for 
Heald  Machine  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  .  John  J. 
Molloy  is  a  district  chief  for  the  U.  S. 
Geological  Survey's  Water  Resources  Div. 
He  is  located  in  Columbus,  Ohio.  .  .  Robert 
B.  Taylor  is  president  and  treasurer  of  R.  B. 
Taylor  Corp.  in  Albany,  N.Y. 


1938 
Dr.  Gilbert  G.  Ashwell  is  chief  of  the 
laboratory  of  biochemistry  and  cellular 
metabolism  at  the  National  Institute  of 
Arthritis  and  Metabolic  Diseases  in 
Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  Robert  A.  Evans  recently 
became  an  honorary  member  of  the  Univer- 


34 


THE  JOURNAL 


sity  of  Connecticut  chapter  of  Pi  Tau  Sigma, 
a  national  honorary  fraternity  of  mechanical 
engineers.  Bob  works  for  Northeast  Utilities 
Co.  and  lives  in  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  The 
Heat  Transfer  Div.  of  American  Standard, 
Inc.  has  appointed  Ernest  E.  Gustafson 
manager,  marketing  research-heat  ex- 
changers in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  He  lives  in  Elma, 
N.Y.  .  .  Philip  K.  Hathaway  is  a  senior  cus- 
tomer engineer  for  IBM  in  Concord, 
N.H.  .  .  Warren  R.  Spofford  has  been  named 
an  account  executive  in  the  Grinding  Wheel 
Div.  of  Norton  Co.,  and  he  is  responsible  for 
sales  in  the  Los  Angeles  and  Arizona  areas. 
He  resides  in  Santa  Monica,  Calif.  .  .  Earle 
Ft.  Vickery,  Jr.  has  been  named  superin- 
tendent of  the  state  skating  rink  in  Worces- 
ter. His  responsibilities  include  supervision 
of  state  swimming  areas  in  the  summer. 

1939 

Walter  L.  Longnecker  has  been  named 
vice  president  —  power  components  for 
Gould,  Inc.,  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  John  T. 
Rushton  is  employed  as  general  manager  of 
Publishers  Forest  Products  Co.  in  Anacortes, 
Wash. 

1940 

George  S.  Bingham  is  chief  engineer  for 
the  Bonneville  Power  Administration  in 
Portland,  Oregon.  .  .  Raymond  B.  Shlora  is 
president  and  treasurer  of  H.  H.  Brown  Shoe 
Co.,  Ltd.,  in  Montreal,  Canada.  .  .  Frank  C. 
Brown  &  Co.  of  Ridgewood,  N.J.,  employs 
Charles  J.  Wilde  as  their  vice  president  and 
general  manager. 

1941 

Irving  A.  Breger  reports  that  he  is  a 
visiting  professor  of  chemistry  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Maryland  and  that  he  is  also  working 
with  lunar  samples  in  conjunction  with 
NASA's  Ames  Research  Center,  Moffett 
Field,  Calif.  .  .Stanley  S.  Ribb  writes  that 
he  was  recently  promoted  to  vice  president 
and  general  manager  of  the  Blackstone 
Valley  Electric  Co.  in  Lincoln,  R.I.  .  . 
Emhart  Corp.  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  has  an- 
nounced that  Ralph  W.  Stinson  has  been 
appointed  manager  of  planning.  .  .  Alfred  E. 
Winslow  is  now  a  group  leader  with  the 
Borden  Chemical  Co.  in  Bainbridge,  N.Y.  He 
lives  in  Unadilla,  N.Y. 

Donald  T.  Atkinson  is  a  consultant  for 
the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Philadelphia, 
Pa.  .  .  F.  Douglas  McKeown,  assistant  to  the 
director  of  research  at  WPI,  has  been  ap- 
pointed by  Pres.  Hazzard  to  direct  the  WPI 
Corporate  Associates  Program,  an  organiza- 
tion of  Central  New  England  corporations 
to  promote  mutual  needs  and  interests  and 
to  facilitate  the  relationship  of  the  member 
firms  with  the  college. 


1942 

John  B.  Wright  informs  us  that  he  is 
very  busy  at  the  Air  Force's  Cambridge 
Research  Labs  at  Hanscom  Field,  Bedford, 
Mass.  He  is  engaged  in  high  altitude  rocket 
systems  development.  .  .  Ralph  G.  Fritch 
has  been  appointed  assistant  to  the  director 
of  Boston's  Museum  of  Science. 

1943 

Col.  Paul  G.  Atkinson,  Jr.,  is  director  of 
technology  applications  at  Andrews  AFB, 
Md.  .  .  Donald  H.  Russell  reports  that  he  is 
still  at  Grumman  Aerospace  Corp.,  Beth- 
page,  N.Y.  He  is  employed  as  an  engineer 
and  has  been  with  the  company  for  ten 
years.  .  .  William  A.  Walsh,  Jr.,  informs  us 
that  after  making  several  moves  in  recent 
years,  he  has  finally  settled  back  in  Man- 
chester, N.H.  He  is  employed  by  Comstock 
&  Westcott,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  as  a 
senior  product  engineer.  He  has  also  done  an 
extensive  amount  of  work  developing  snow- 
making  machines. 

1944 

L.  Howard  Reagan  is  manager  of  sup- 
port-earth station  div.  of  the  Communica- 
tions Satellite  Corp.  in  Washington,  D.C. 
(See  picture  this  page.).  .  .  Kimball  R. 
Woodbury,  president  of  Woodbury  and  Co. 
in  Worcester,  has  been  named  a  trustee  of 
both  Worcester  County  Institution  for 
Savings  and  Worcester  Academy. 

1945 
John  T.  Hegeman  reports  that  he  is  now 
resident  mill  manager  for  Crestbrook  Pulp  & 
Paper,  Ltd.,  in  Skookumchuck,  B.C. 

1946 

John  H.  Barrett  has  been  appointed 
assistant  vice  president  and  corporate  secre- 
tary of  Charles  T.   Main,   Inc.,  of   Boston, 


Mass.  .  .  Ernest  S.  Hayeck  has  been  ap- 
pointed a  special  justice  in  the  Worcester 
(Mass.)  Central  District  Court.  He  is  a 
graduate  of  Boston  University  Law 
School.  .  .  Richard  C.  Lawton  writes:  "My 
new  company,  Buell  Automatics,  Inc.,  is 
now  three  years  old  and  has  reached  sales  of 
$1  million."  He  is  president  of  the  com- 
pany. .  .  Calvin  F.  Long  informs  us:  "Still 
with  Elco  Corp.  in  Detroit  as  district  man- 
ager, selling  gear  lubricants  to  automotive 
type  customers.  My  wife  and  I  are  looking 
forward  to  a  journey  to  Worcester  in  1971 
for  our  25th  class  reunion.".  .  .  Carl  F. 
Simon,  Jr.,  is  manager  of  engineering,  gear 
motor  business,  for  General  Electric  Co.  in 
Paterson,  N.J. 

1946B 
Garabed  Hovhanesian  is  manager,  prod- 
uct planning  industrial  marketing,  in  the 
specialty  appliance  dept.  of  the  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Ashland,  Mass.  He  lives  in 
Shrewsbury.  ..  August  C.  Kellermann  is 
manager.  Petrochemical  International  Div., 
of  Continental  Oil  Co.,  Saddle  Brook,  N.J. 

1946D 

John  C.  Meade,  who  is  a  district  man- 
ager for  Ashland  Oil  &  Refining  Co.,  Ash- 
land Chemical  Co.  Div.,  writes:  "Our  tenth 
child  and  fifth  daughter  arrived  last  April." 
Phil  lives  in  Palos  Verdes  Peninsula,  Calif. 

1947 

Samuel  Ringel  is  president  of  Dynaloy, 
Inc.,  in  Hanover,  N.J.  .  .  The  State  of  New 
Hampshire  has  named  Edward  T.  Swierz 
bridge  engineer  for  the  Dept.  of  Public 
Works  and  Highways.  He  will  direct  and 
coordinate  all  activities  of  the  bridge  design 
and  bridge  maintenance  divisions. 

John  P.  Harding,  Jr.  recently  became 
vice  president  of  engineering  in  the  Data 
Systems  Div.  of  Litton  Systems,  Inc.,  in  Van 
Nuys,    Calif.    He  and    his  family   have  also 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


THE  JOURNAL 


35 


moved  into  their  newly-completed 
"hacienda"  in  Westlake  Village,  Calif.  .  .  The 
manager  of  engineering  standards  at  General 
Electric's  Oklahoma  City  (Okla.)  facility  is 
James  J.  Hierl.  .  .  Roger  B.  Williams,  Jr.  is 
manager  of  research  for  the  Toledo  Scale 
and  Systems  Div.  of  Reliance  Electric  Co.  in 
Toledo,  Ohio.  His  family  consists  of  his 
wife,  Madeleine;  two  sons,  Ned,  who  attends 
Bowling  Green  Univ.,  and  Pete,  who  will  be 
a  freshman  at  Baldwin  Wallace  College  next 
fall;  and  two  daughters,  Sheila,  13,  and 
Sally,  11. 

1948 

Robert  E.  Eilertson  is  in  the  sales  dept. 
of  Benefacts,  Inc.,  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  Robert 
W.  Henderson  has  been  named  a  trustee  of 
New  Salem  (Mass.)  Academy.  Bob  is  em- 
ployed at  Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Orange,  Mass., 
as  manager  of  its  water  control  equipment 
div.  .  .  James  M.  Mullarkey  has  been  pro- 
moted to  assistant  vice  president  by  Charles 
T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston,  Mass.  Jim  lives  in 
Westwood,  Mass.  .  .  Daniel  H.  Sheingold  re- 
ports that  he  is  now  with  Analog  Devices, 
Inc.,  of  Cambridge,  Mass.,  as  director  of 
marketing  and  editor  of  "Analog  Dialogue." 

David  L.  Anthony  has  been  transferred 
by  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  from  Dallas, 
Tex.,  to  Houston.  He  is  now  manager  of 
TTL  Integrated  Circuit  Assembly.  .  . 
Gordon  E.  Hall  is  the  resident  master  (math 
and  physics)  at  Laurelcrest  Preparatory 
School  in  Bristol,  Conn.  .  .  Dr.  Carlton  A. 
Lane  presented  a  ten-minute  paper  at  the 
Nov.  1969  meeting  of  the  S.  E.  Section  of 
the  American  Physical  Society,  held  at  the 
Univ.  of  Fla.,  Gainesville. 

1949 
John  H.  Beckwith  is  a  division  manager 
for  Esso  Research  &  Engineering,  Florham 
Park,  N.J.,  and  he  is  currently  working 
overseas.  .  .  ITT  Gilfillan,  Inc.,  of  Van  Nuys, 
Calif.,  employs  Fred  J.  Brennan,  Jr.,  as  their 
director  of  marketing.  .  .  Samuel  E.  Franc, 
Jr.,  is  a  construction  manager  for  Systech 
Construction  Corp.,  Walnut  Creek,  Calif.  .  . 
Also  in  California  is  Raymond  J.  Remillard. 
He  is  manager  of  mechanical  design  for 
Amelco  Semiconductor  in  Mountain  View, 
Calif.  .  .  Union  Camp  Corp.,  Wayne,  N.J., 
has  named  Edward  D.  Wilcox,  Jr.,  as  general 
manager  of  its  newly-formed  engineered 
systems  div. 

1950 
General  Electric  Co.  has  named  Carl  D. 
Ahlstrom  product  sales  manager  of  micro- 
wave devices.  Carl  is  located  in  Owensboro, 
Ky.  .  .  John  O.  Archibald.  Jr.,  continues  to 
be  employed  as  a  field  sales  engineer  by  The 
Carborundum   Co.,    Niagara    Falls.   N.Y.  .  . 


Polaroid  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  recently 
promoted  John  P.  Burgarella  to  senior  dept. 
manager,  electronics  dept.  .  .  His  brother, 
Joseph  J.  Burgarella,  Jr.,  is  a  staff  engineer 
at  Avco  Corp.,  Wilmington,  Mass.  .  . 
California  and  Hawaiian  Sugar  Co.  employs 
Philip  J.  Nyquist  at  their  Crockett  (Calif.) 
refinery  as  an  industrial  engineer. 

John  F.  Brierly  is  president  of  Valuation 
Counselors,  Inc.,  a  new  national  firm  of 
appraisers  and  valuation  counselors  which 
recently  opened  its  doors  in  Chicago,  III. 
Jack  was  formerly  vice  president  of  Marshall 
and  Stevens,  Inc.  in  Chicago.  .  .  The  Knolls 
Atomic  Power  Laboratory  of  the  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  recently 
announced  that  Dr.  Herman  A.  Nied  had 
joined  the  Laboratory's  Materials  Develop- 
ment Operation  as  an  analytical  mechanics 
engineer.  .  .  Lester  J.  Reynolds  is  manager 
of  marketing  research  at  American  Cyan- 
amid's  Organic  Chemical  Div.  in  Bound 
Brook,  N.J. 

1951 

William  T.  Baker  is  assistant  to  the 
president  at  Litewate  Transportation  Equip- 
ment Co.,  Milwaukee,  Wis.  .  .  H.  Stuart 
Dodge  is  a  project  engineer  in  the  missile 
and  space  div.  of  the  General  Electric  Co., 
Valley  Forge,  Pa.  In  January  he  wrote:  "I 
am  on  temporary  assignment  at  the  Jet 
Propulsion  Laboratory,  Pasadena,  Calif., 
working  on  the  Mariner  Mars  Orbiter  Pro- 
gram scheduled  for  launch  in  May, 
1971 ."...  American  Optical  Corp.,  Fram- 
ingham,  Mass.,  employs  Edward  L.  Louis  as 
manager  of  mechanical  services.  .  .  Albert  A. 
Mahassel  is  a  patent  counsel  for  the  Xerox 
Corp.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  On  sabbatical 
leave  from  the  University  of  Kentucky  is  Dr. 
Donald  E.  Sands.  He  is  at  the  University  of 
Florida  in  Gainesville  from  January  to  June, 
1970.  He  recently  had  a  book  published 
entitled  "Introduction  to  Crystallography". 


1952 

Philip  B.  Crommelin,  Jr.,  has  been  pro- 
moted from  chief  engineer  to  vice  president 
—  engineered  products  at  Research-Cottrell, 
Bound  Brook,  N.J.  .  .  Stuart  R.  Hathaway  is 
plant  manager  at  American  Cyanamid, 
Azusa,  Calif.  He  had  previously  been  in 
Stanford,  Me.,  with  Wasco  Chemical  Co.  and 
American  Cyanamid  for  13  years. 

Jean  T.  Farley  is  sales  manager  in  the 
Hydraulics  Div.  of  Planet  Products  Corp.  in 
Cincinnati,  Ohio.  .  .  The  manager  of  Special 
Systems  at  Motorola,  Inc.,  in  Washington, 
D.C.,  is  Richard  C.  Gillette.  .  .  We  have 
learned  that  Philip  J.  O'Connor  was  recently 
named  assistant  sales  manager  for  the  Resins 
and  Plastics  Div.  of  the  Ashland  Chemical 
Co.    in    Englewood    Cliffs,   N.J.  .  .  The  vice 


president  of  American  Science  &  Engi- 
neering, Inc.,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.,  is  Henry 
Shapiro.  He  lives  in  Framingham. 

1953 

David  M.  Elovitz  has  been  promoted  to 
chief  engineer  by  Boston  Air  Legasse  Corp., 
Medford,  Mass.  Dave  joined  the  company  in 
1968  as  a  sales  engineer.  .  .  Philip  J.  Kamin- 
sky  writes;  "I  am  now  associated  with  the 
investment  banking  firm  of  Ladenburg, 
Thalmann  &  Co.  in  Boston,  Mass.,  as  an 
institutional  security  (research)  analyst  and 
specializing  in  high  technology  companies/ 
products.".  .  .  Gene  J.  Kucinkas  is  the 
founder,  president,  and  chief  executive 
officer  of  TOTAL  Computer  Systems,  Inc., 
an  affiliate  of  LFE  Corp.,  and  is  located  in 
Newton,  Mass. 

1954 

Andrew  J.  Morgo  is  product  marketing 
manager  for  Honeywell,  Inc.,  in  San  Diego, 
Calif.  .  .  G.  Henry  Utter,  SIM,  is  manufac- 
turing manager  at  Crompton  &  Knowles 
Corp.  in  Worcester. 

1955 

Richard  C.  Oldham  is  an  associate  with 
Ranger  Farrell  &  Associates  in  Irvington-on- 
Hudson,  N.Y. 

1956 
Richard  N.  Bazinet  is  a  supervisor  with 
Singer-General  Precision  Inc.  —  Link  Div.  in 
Houston,  Texas.  He  writes  the  following: 
"Transferred  to  the  command  module  sec- 
tion as  a  supervisor  in  applied  mechanics/ 
visual  group  last  June.  While  at  Cape 
Kennedy  I  attended  a  party  where  Astro- 
nauts Armstrong,  Collins,  and  Aldrin  were 
present.  Had  the  honor  of  losing  to  Collins 
and  beating  Armstrong  at  pool.  I  was  very 
much  impressed  by  the  'next-door-neighbor' 
attitude  of  the  astronauts.".  .  .  Charles  R. 
Healy  is  manager  of  standards  and  proce- 
dures for  Ebasco  Services,  Inc..  of  New 
York  City.  He  lives  in  Jackson,  Mich. 

1957 
Warner  I.  Clifford  is  a  resident  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.,  and 
he  is  presently  on  assignment  in  Shipping- 
port,  Pa.  His  permanent  mailing  address  is 
Auburn,  Mass.  .  .  Dr.  Frederick  P.  Mertens  is 
a  research  chemist  for  Texaco,  Inc.,  at  their 
research  center  in  Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  Worcester 
Valve  Co.  of  W.  Boylston,  Mass..  has  Alex  C. 
Papaioannou  as  their  sales  manager  in  their 
flowmation  div.  He  had  previously  been 
with  the  Foxboro  Co.  for  10  years... 
Wyman-Gordon   Co.   of    Worcester  has  ap- 


36 


THE  JOURNAL 


pointed  Oscar  O.  St.  Thomas  sales  manager 
of  product  and  market  development.  .  . 
Richard  M.  Silven  is  director  of  new 
business  development  for  the  Bundy  Corp., 
Warren,  Mich. 

1958 

Married:  Philip  L.  Morse  to  Miss  Carol 
Lee  Wells  of  Berkeley  Heights,  N.J.,  on 
November  8,  1969.  One  of  the  ushers  was 
Collins  M.  Pomeroy,  '57.  Phil  is  an  engineer 
with  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  in  Rochester,  N.Y. 

Peter  C.  Dirksen,  Jr.,  is  director  of 
industrial  development  for  the  Worcester 
(Mass.)  Gas  Light  Co.  .  .  Joseph  B.  Gill  is 
vice  president  —  sales  for  the  Keene  Corp., 
Muskegon,  Mich.  .  .  The  Boeing  Co.  employs 
Walter  Janas,  Jr.,  at  Minot  AFB,  N.  Dakota 
as  a  tool  and  production  planner.  .  .  Carl  R. 
Johnson  is  a  senior  engineer  with  Shell 
Chemical  Co.  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  Marian 
C.  Knight  writes:  "I  am  now  employed  on 
Kwajalein,  Marshall  Islands,  by  Sylvania 
Electronic  Systems  as  a  systems  engineer  on 
experimental  radar.  A  fellow  classmate, 
Roger  A.  Jolicoeur,  is  also  here.  It's  a  small 
world.".  .  .  Joel  Korelitz  is  vice  president  in 
charge  of  systems  engineering  for  Daconics, 
Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  .  Dr.  Sherman  K.  Poult- 
ney  is  an  assistant  professor  in  the  dept.  of 
physics  and  astronomy  at  the  University  of 
Maryland.  ..  Andrew  A.  Szypula  informs 
us:  "After  spending  a  year-and-a-half  at  the 


Naval  Ship  Engineering  Center  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  I  rejoined  the  Marine  div.  of 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.  in  Sparrows  Point, 
Md.,  and  hold  a  position  of  marine  engineer 
in  charge  of  all  new  ship  construction.".  .  . 
Norman  J.  Taupeka,  a  supervisory  engineer 
of  the  Electronics  Command's  Communica- 
tion/Automatic Data  Processing  Laboratory 
at  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.,  was  awarded  the 
Dept.  of  the  Army  official  commendation 
for  outstanding  performance  of  duties  in  the 
Fall  of  1969.  .  .  Jamesbury  Corp.  of  Worces- 
ter has  appointed  Joaquim  S.  S.  Ribeiro 
controller.  He  joined  the  company  in  1958. 

1959 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Arthur  Olsen,  Jr., 
a  son,  James  Eric,  on  June  28,  1969.  Art  is  a 
supervisor  in  the  transmission  transformer 
and  inductor  group  with  Bell  Telephone 
Labs  in  N.  Andover,  Mass. 

Walter  M.  Gasek  is  production  manager 
for  Colonial  Candle  Co.  of  Cape  Cod,  Inc.  in 
Hyannis,  Mass.  .  .  Marshall  P.  Krupnick  re- 
cently passed  the  New  York  State  Degree 
Bar  Exams  and  was  sworn  into  practice  at 
the  New  Jersey  Bar.  .  .  North  American 
Rockwell  Corp.  employs  William  A. 
Saimond  as  a  fuel  cell  cryogenics  engineer  at 
Kennedy  Space  Center,  Fla.  .  .  Edward  A. 
Saulnier  continues  to  be  employed  by  IBM 
in  Worcester  as  an  advisory  systems  engi- 
neer. .  .  Engineering  Consultants  of  Denver, 


Colo.,  employs  Michael  P.  Saunders.  He  is 
currently  working  in  Bandung,  Indone- 
sia. .  .  Robert  V.  Sharkey  recently  left  the 
Singer  Co.  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  and  he  is 
now  employed  by  Corometrics  Medical 
Systems,  Inc.,  of  N.  Haven,  Conn.,  as 
marketing  manager.  .  .  Alexander  Swetz,  Jr., 
was  recently  promoted  from  associate  engi- 
neer to  engineer  in  the  electric  distribution 
dept.,  Bergen  Div.,  of  the  Public  Service 
Electric  &  Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey.  .  .  Union 
Carbide  Corp.  employs  John  Wary  in  Union, 
N.J. 

Army  Major  Joel  T.  Callahan  has  re- 
ceived the  Bronze  Star  Medal  for  out- 
standing meritorious  service  in  connection 
with  military  operations  against  a  hostile 
force  in  Vietnam.  .  .  Aero-Go,  Inc.,  has 
named  Frank  M.  Cohee  manager  of  adminis- 
tration. The  company,  which  is  a  leading 
manufacturer  of  air  cushion  devices  used  in 
manipulating  large,  heavy  materials  such  as 
aircraft  scaffolding,  is  located  in  Seattle, 
Wash.  .  .  Joseph  A.  Lenard  has  been  pro- 
moted to  senior  engineer  at  IBM's  Com- 
ponents Div.  in  E.  Fishkill,  N.Y.  .  .  Ronald 
L.  Merrill  has  joined  the  3  M  Co.  in 
Freehold,  N.J.,  as  a  project  engineer. 

1960 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sang  Ki  Lee, 
their  second  child  and  son,  Jonathan  Hong- 
supp,   on   January   17,  1970.  Sang  recently 


ENGINEERING   INGENUITY  .    .    .    . 


key  to  industrial  progress 


A  saving  in  time  is  a  saving  of  money  in  today's  fast- 
moving  world.  All  these  parts  were  ground  in  one  minute 
whereas  previous  cycle  time  required  9  seconds  per  piece. 
This  saving  produces  200  extra  pieces  per  hour,  or  4,800 
extra  pieces  per  day. 

The  new  Heald  Model  SCF90,  designed  through  engi- 
neering ingenuity,  features  table  reciprocation  of  up  to  400 
cycles  per  minute.  This  means  faster  over-all  stock  removal, 
better  surface  finish,  cooler  operation.  And  more  frequent 
in-process  bore  measurement  gives  better  sizing  accuracy 
than  ever  before. 

But  that's  not  all.  The  new  3-plane  loader  mechanism 
performs  the  complete  loading  sequence  in  only  one  half 
of  one  second ! 

The  key  to  industrial  progress  is  engineering  ingenuity 
and  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald — where  metalworking  needs 
meet  new  ideas. 

THE     HEALD     MACHINE     COMPANY 

ASSOCIA1E  OF  THE  CINCINNATI  MILLING  MACHINE  COMPANY 
Worcester,    Massachusetts    01606     U.S.A. 


THE  JOURNAL 


37 


joined  ITT's  patent  dept.  in  Nutley,  N.J.,  as 
senior  patent  counsel.  He  is  also  president  of 
the  Northern  New  Jersey  Alumni  Chap- 
ter. .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donald  L.  Lince, 
their  third  child  and  second  son,  Matthew 
David,  on  June  6,  1969.  Don  is  presently  an 
electrical  engineer  in  the  acoustics  branch  of 
the  Human  Engineering  Labs  at  Aberdeen 
(Md.)  Proving  Ground. 

Dr.  Robert  A.  Condrate  presented  an 
invited  paper,  "The  Infrared  and  Laser 
Raman  Spectra  of  Apatites,"  at  the  10th 
European  Congress  on  Molecular  Spectros- 
copy in  Liege,  Belgium,  in  September, 
1969.  Dr.  Condrate  is  an  assistant  professor 
at  Alfred  (N.Y.)  University.  ..  David  Ft. 
Geoffroy  is  employed  by  Coppus  Engi- 
neering Co.  of  Worcester  as  a  senior  design 
engineer.  .  .  Hercules,  Inc.,  of  Parlin,  N.J., 
employs  Norman  M.  Hardy  as  their  oper- 
ating dept.  supervisor.  .  .  Polaroid  Corp.  of 
Waltham,  Mass.,  employs  Richard  A.  Loring 
as  a  senior  process  engineer  in  their  film 
div.  .  .  Robert  J.  McElroy  is  a  graduate 
assistant  in  the  sociology  dept.  at  the  State 
University  of  New  York  in  Binghamton.  .  . 
H.  David  Sutton  is  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  of  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua, 
N.H.  .  .  Philip  R.  Pastore,  Jr.,  writes:  "I  have 
been  working  for  C.  W.  Blakeslee  &  Sons, 
Inc.,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.,  since  January, 
1961.  On  November  1,  1969,  I  was  pro- 
moted to  chief  engineer  of  the  prestressed 
concrete  div.  Prior  to  my  promotion,  I  was 
project  engineer  in  charge  of  structural 
design  and  construction  of  King's  Plaza 
Parking  Garage  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y.,  the 
largest  parking  garage  in  the  U.S.,  housing 
4000  cars." 

1961 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  R.  Hale, 
their  first  child  and  son,  Robert  David,  on 
September  27,  1969.  Bob  is  a  project 
manager  for  PEK  of  Sunnyvale,  Calif.,  and 
works  on  special  high  intensity  arc  lamps. 

Edward  J.  Boduch  is  a  systems  manager 
for  Intercontinental  Manufacturing  Co., 
Garland,  Texas.  .  .  Prof.  Roger  R.  Borden, 
MS,  was  recently  honored  by  more  than  200 
people  upon  his  retirement  as  lay  minister 
of  the  Congregational  Church  of  Petersham, 
Mass.  Prof.  Borden  is  an  associate  professor 
of  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI.  He  re- 
signed from  his  lay  pastorship  to  devote 
more  time  to  education.  .  .  Thomas  K.  Caste 
is  a  producibility  engineer  with  the  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Portsmouth,  Va.  .  .  Loctite 
Corp.  of  Newington,  Conn.,  has  announced 
that  David  M.  Chesmel  has  joined  their  new 
ventures  staff.  Dave  lives  in  Kensington, 
Conn.,  and  was  formerly  with  FMC  Corp.  in 
Detroit,  Mich.  .  .  Charles  S.  Cook  is  a  senior 
civil  engineer  with  the  State  of  New  York, 
Dept.  of  Transportation.  .  S.  Leon 
Gazoorian  lives  in  Englewood,  N.J..  and  is 


an  account  representative  for  IBM  Corp.  .  . 
Dr.  John  B.  Lewis  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs, 
Whippany,  N.J.  .  .  .  Joseph  W.  Little,  MS,  is 
an  associate  professor  of  law  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Florida  in  Gainesville.  ..  Daniel  F. 
O'Grady,  Jr.,  is  a  senior  programmer  for 
New  England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  in 
Boston,  Mass.  .  .  White  Engineering  Corp.  of 
Bristol,  Pa.,  employs  Thomas  J.  Pearsall  as 
chief  process  engineer.  .  .  Walter  E.  Pillartz, 
Jr.,  is  supervisor  of  transmission  services  for 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co.  in 
New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  The  state  of  New 
York,  Health  Dept.,  employs  David  W. 
Prosser  as  a  senior  air  pollution  engineer  in 
Syracuse.  .  .  David  M.  Raab  is  a  staff  engi- 
neer at  MIT's  Instrumentation  Lab  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  Brown  University  recently 
awarded  William  A.  Wolovich,  MS,  a  PhD 
degree  in  electrical  sciences.  Dr.  Wolovich  is 
currently  employed  at  NASA's  Electronics 
Research  Center  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 


1962 

Married:  Frank  J.  Sokol,  III  to  Miss 
Miriam  Chisholm  Davis  of  Middletown, 
Conn.,  on  December  27,  1969.  Frank  is 
assistant  to  the  executive  vice  president  at 
Research-Cottrell,    Inc.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J. 

R.  P.  Durkin  &  Co.,  Inc.,  has  announced 
that  they  have  opened  a  franchised  broker- 
age office  in  Nashua,  N.H.  and  that  Robert 
J.  Bagdis  is  a  co-manager  of  that  opera- 
tion. .  .  Robert  A.  Eddy,  SIM,  has  been 
named  product  quality  manager  at  Wyman- 
Gordon  Co.  of  Worcester.  .  .  Dr.  John  E. 
Lukens  received  his  PhD  degree  from 
Cornell  University  in  1969.  He  reports  that 
he  is  presently  self-employed  as  a  consultant 
in  remote  sensing  and  that  for  the  spring 
semester  of  1970  he  is  a  lecturer  in  the 
Geography  Dept.  at  the  University  of  Rhode 
Island.  .  .  Another  recent  doctorate  degree 
recipient  is  Harry  L.  Rook.  He  received  his 
degree  from  Texas  A&M  University  in  1969 
and  is  presently  employed  as  a  research 
chemist  at  the  National  Bureau  of  Standards 
in  Washington,  D.  C.  .  .  Walter  D.  Wadman  is 
an  area  operating  engineer  for  the  Con- 
necticut Light  &  Power  Co.  in  Winsted, 
Conn. 

Dr.  Michael  A.  Davis,  who  received  a 
doctor  of  science  degree  in  radiation  biology 
from  Harvard  School  of  Public  Health  in 
1969,  is  principal  research  associate  in  nu- 
clear medicine  at  Harvard  Medical  School 
and  Peter  Bent  Brigham  Hospital  in  Boston, 
Mass.  He  was  recently  the  recipient  of  the 
James  Picker  Scholar  Award  in  radiological 
research  granted  by  the  James  Picker  Foun- 
dation upon  the  recommendation  of  the 
National  Academy  of  Science  —  National 
Research      Council.       Victor     P.      Dufault 


writes  that  he  has  left  the  Navy's  submarine 
service  after  seven  years  and  is  now  a 
maintenance  engineer  at  Chas.  Pfizer  &  Co., 
Inc.,  in  Groton,  Conn.  He  and  his  wife, 
Paula,  have  one  son,  Michael,  age  one.  .  . 
General  Electric's  Binghamton  (N.Y.)  facili- 
ty is  the  location  of  Ronald  C.  Gagne.  He  is 
a  systems  engineer.  .  .  Army  Capt.  Thomas 
G.  Holland  is  in  Germany,  having  completed 
the  field  artillery  course  as  a  signal  corps 
officer.  .  .  IBM  Corp.  has  transferred  Robert 
P.  Wilder  to  their  regional  office  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  Bob,  his  wife,  Jeanne,  and  their 
three  children  live  in  Arnold,  Md. 


1963 

Alfred  A.  Bartkiewicz,  Jr.,  is  a  sales 
engineer  for  the  Farrel  Co.  in  Ansonia, 
Conn.  .  .  Also  employed  as  a  sales  engineer 
is  James  M.  Kelly,  Jr.  He  is  located  in 
Kenmore,  N.Y.,  where  he  works  for  Au- 
gustine-Honsberger  Associates,  Inc.  .  . 
Edward  J.  Polewarczyk  is  an  engineering 
service  and  products  administrator  for 
Dynamic  Controls  Corp.,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  . 
William  C.  Zinno  informs  us:  "I  am  pres- 
ently living  in  Worthington,  Ohio,  and  I  was 
recently  promoted  to  production  superin- 
tendent at  Industrial  Nucleonics  Corp., 
Columbus,  Ohio.  I  finished  my  MBA  at  the 
University  of  Michigan  in  April,  1968,  be- 
fore joining  Industrial  Nucleonics,  and  I 
have  two  sweet  children,  Terri  Lynn  and 
Michael  James." 

Dr.  Richard  A.  Kashnow  has  joined 
General  Electric's  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Center  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  as  a 
physicist  in  the  Information  Sciences  Labo- 
ratory. .  .  Arnold  Greene  Testing  Laborato- 
ries, Inc.,  in  Natick,  Mass.,  have  appointed 
William  J.  Ladroga,  Jr.  as  their  chief 
metallurgist.  .  .  The  assistant  division  line 
superintendent  at  Massachusetts  Electric  Co. 
in  Worcester  is  Robert  M.  Mellor.  .  .  Army 
Capt.  David  G.  Nevers  left  in  March  for  his 
second  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam.  On  his  first 
tour  he  received  the  Bronze  Star  and  an 
award  from  the  South  Vietnamese  govern- 
ment. .  .  The  president  of  our  North  Shore 
Alumni  Chapter,  Dennis  E.  Snay,  has  been 
named  local  sales  manager  —  commercial  by 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.'s  Marlboro 
operations  center. 


1964 
Married:  1/Lt.  Edward  P.  laccarino  to 
Miss  Susan  P.  Reheis  of  Webster  Groves, 
Mo.,  on  June  21.  1969.  Ed,  who  received  his 
PhD  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin  last 
year,  is  in  the  Army  Chemical  Corps,  sta- 
tioned at  Pine  Bluff  Arsenal,  Ark.  .  . 
Raymond  G.  Johnson,  Jr.  to  Miss  Ruth 
Anne  Walton   of    Grand    Rapids,   Mich.,  on 


38 


THE  JOURNAL 


November  28,  1969.  Ray  is  an  electrical 
engineer  with  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford, 
Conn,,  and  is  a  graduate  student  at  U.  Conn. 

Robert  8.  Bridgman  received  a  Master  of 
Aerospace  Operations  Management  degree 
from  the  University  of  Southern  California 
in  February,  1970.  He  is  employed  by  The 
Boeing  Co.  at  Vandenberg  AFB,  Calif.  .  . 
Edward  L.  Cure  is  assistant  manager  of 
Cure's  Furniture  in  Worcester.  .  .  Dr.  Warren 
J.  Eresian,  Jr.,  MS,  is  now  a  Captain  in  the 
U.  S.  Army  and  is  stationed  at  Fort  Belvoir, 
Va.  .  .  Capt.  E.  James  Hanna,  III,  is  now 
stationed  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB,  Ohio.  .  . 
Bell  Telephone  Labs,  Holmdel,  N.J.,  em- 
ploys David  V.  Helsing  as  a  member  of  their 
technical  staff.  ..  John  H.  Schmidt  is  a 
university  electronics  engineer  at  Adelphi 
University,  Garden  City,  N.Y.  .  .  New  Jersey 
Zinc  Co.  of  Palmerton,  Pa.,  employs 
Maurice  Ft.  Silvestris  as  an  environmental 
control  engineer.  He  lives  in  Allentown, 
Pa.  .  .  Stanley  Szymanski  writes:  "Now 
living  in  Golden  Valley,  Minn.,  and  working 
as  a  sales  engineer  for  Hooker  Chemical 
Corp.  We  have  two  boys,  Matthew  (3  years 
old)  and  Charles  (8  months  old).".  .  .  John 
F.  Wetherell  is  an  instrument  engineer  with 
Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass. 

Kenneth  N.  Robbins  has  been  promoted 
to  senior  associate  engineer  at  IBM  Corp.'s 
Systems  Development  Laboratory  in  King- 
ston, N.Y.  .  .  Frederic  C.  Scofield,  III  is  a 
graduate  student  in  nuclear  engineering  at 
the  University  of  Arizona.  .  .  The  recent 
recipient  of  a  PhD  degree  from  Yale  Univer- 
sity, Army  Lt.  Elliot  F.  Wyner  is  now 
stationed  at  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J. 


1965 

Married:  Francis  X.  Cantello  to  Miss 
Elizabeth  J.  Karwich  of  Wadsworth,  Ohio, 
on  August  30,  1969.  George  L.  Humphrey 
was  best  man.  Frank  is  a  products  engineer 
for  B.  F.  Goodrich  Co.  in  Woodburn,  Ind. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chester  J. 
Sergey,  Jr.,  their  second  child  and  first 
daughter,  Susan,  on  September  24,  1969. 
Chester  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Enthone,  Inc., 
of  W.  Haven,  Conn.,  and  he  lives  in  Wolcott, 
Conn.  .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  E.  Zetter- 
lund,  their  second  child  and  first  son,  Adam 
Eric,  on  November  27,  1969.  Bill  received 
an  MBA  degree  from  Inter-American  Univer- 
sity in  Puerto  Rico  while  he  was  stationed 
there  in  the  Navy.  He  is  presently  a  con- 
struction manager  for  Brockwell,  Longe, 
McManus  of  Latham,  N.Y.,  and  he  is  living 
in  Athens,  N.Y. 

Donald  C.  Carlson  is  a  product  engineer 
for  the  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington,  Conn., 
and  he  is  presently  on  assignment  in  Japan 
for  a  year.  .  .  Also  employed  by  the  Torring- 
ton Co.   is  David  W.    Geiger.   Dave  lives  in 


Torrington.  .  .  Dr.  William  F.  Gasko,  MS, 
has  been  named  research  director  at  Millis 
Research,  Inc.,  Millis,  Mass.  He  is  a  co- 
founder  of  the  company.  .  .  Dr.  Arthur 
Gauss,  Jr.,  MS,  is  a  research  physicist  at  the 
Ballistic  Research  Lab  at  Aberdeen  (Md.) 
Proving  Ground.  .  .  Vision  Systems,  Inc., 
Bedford,  Mass.,  employs  Robert  L.  Johnson 
as  a  senior  programmer/analyst.  .  .  Clinton 
F.  Kucera,  Jr.,  is  employed  by  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Edmore,  Mich.,  as  a  specialist 
in  employee  relations.  .  .  Dr.  Thomas  F. 
Moriarty,  who  received  his  PhD  degree  from 
the  University  of  Illinois  in  1969,  is  em- 
ployed as  a  staff  associate  at  Gulf  General 
Atomic,  San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  John  W.  Old- 
ham, Jr.,  is  vice  president  of  John  Oldham 
Studios,  Inc.,  in  Wethersfield,  Conn.  .  . 
RCA  in  Van  Nuys,  Calif .,  employs  Anthony 
A.  Smalarz.  .  .  Alfred  G.  Symonds  is  a  field 
service  representative  for  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.  at  Vitro  Labs,  Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  . 
Takashi  Tsujita  is  a  project  engineer  for 
Thomas  &  Betts,  Inc.,  in  Elizabeth,  N.J.  .  . 
Dr.  John  T.  Wilson  writes:  "I  received  a  PhD 
degree  in  civil  engineering  —  structures  in 
August,  1969,  from  Ohio  State  University.  I 
am  employed  by  Paul  J.  Ford,  Structural 
Engineers,  in  Columbus,  Ohio.".  .  .  Arthur 
M.  Zweil,  Jr.,  is  a  project  engineer  for 
Sylvania  Electric  Products  in  Danvers,  Mass. 
Air  Force  Capt.  Robert  H.  Jacoby  is  an 
aircraft  maintenance  staff  officer  with  an 
APO  San  Francisco  address.  .  .  E.  I.  duPont 
deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Chattanooga,  Tenn., 
is  the  location  of  Charles  R.  Seaver.  He  is  a 
process  engineer.  .  .  Dr.  Anton  J.  West,  Jr.  is 
a  scientist  in  Mountain  View,  Calif.  He 
earned  his  PhD  in  materials  science  last  year 
at  Stanford. 


1966 

Married:  Ronald  D.  Finn  to  Miss  Billie 
Elaine  Wilkerson  of  Roanoke,  Va.,  on  De- 
cember 7,  1969.  .  .  Robert  P.  Kokernak  to 
Miss  Jean  Elizabeth  Duffy  of  Chelmsford, 
Mass.,  in  December,  1969.  Bob  is  presently 
studying  for  his  doctorate  at  WPI.  .  .  Donald 
R.  Nitsche  to  Miss  Nancy  Anne  Dowd  of 
Worcester,  Mass.,  on  October  18,  1969.  Don 
received  his  MS  last  year  from  URI  and  is  an 
actuarial  student  in  the  group  department  of 
Mutual  Benefit  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Newark, 
N.J. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  F. 
Elliott,  their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Pen- 
elope Ann,  on  December  27,  1969.  Bill  is 
assistant  director  of  admissions  at  WPI. 

Brian  N.  Belanger  is  a  PhD  candidate  at 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  .  .  Self- 
employed  as  a  consultant  and  promoter  in 
Allston,  Mass.,  is  Philip  S.  Blackman.  He 
received  an  MS  degree  from  MIT  in 
1969.  .  .  Jivraj   N.    Borad,    MS,    is  a  design 


engineer  for  a  Philadelphia  (Pa.)  firm,  Cata- 
lytic Construction  Co.  .  .  Roland  C. 
Bouchard  has  been  promoted  to  first  lieu- 
tenant in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  He  is  an 
electronics  engineer  at  Hill  AFB,  Utah.  .  . 
John  W.  Bowen  is  an  MBA  candidate  at 
Harvard  Business  School.  He  recently  was 
named  a  George  F.  Baker  Scholar  which  is 
an  honor  bestowed  upon  students  in  the  top 
five  percent  of  the  second-year  students  at 
the  school.  .  .  George  M.  Elko  is  working 
toward  his  doctorate  degree  and  is  a  teach- 
ing assistant  at  Stevens  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy, Hoboken,  N.J.  .  .  Applied  Information 
Industries  of  Moorestown,  N.J.,  employs 
Paul  R.  Malnati  as  a  project  engineer.  .  . 
Raymond  G.  O'Connell,  Jr.,  is  a  design 
engineer  in  the  medical  electronics  div.  of 
Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Waltham,  Mass.  Ray 
lives  in  Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  Chester  J. 
Patch,  III,  is  a  field  engineer  for  the  Bechtel 
Corp.  of  Vernon,  Calif.  Joe  lives  in  Farming- 
ton,  New  Mexico.  .  .  Paul  F.  Peterson  is  a 
systems  analyst/programmer  in  telecom- 
munications for  Cincinnati  Milling  Machine 
Co.  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Christopher  G.  Bradbury  is  with  the 
Reece  Corp.  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  General 
Motors  Corp.,  AC  Electronics  Div.,  is  the 
location  of  John  H.  Carosella.  He  is  a  senior 
project  engineer  at  the  Milwaukee  (Wis.) 
facility.  .  .Albany,  N.Y.,  is  the  location  of 
George  M.  Preston.  He's  a  field  engineer  for 
General  Electric  Co.  .  .  Dr.  James  A. 
Ratches  is  a  research  physicist  for  the 
Army's  Night  Vision  Laboratory  at  Ft. 
Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  We  have  learned  that 
Mordechai  Turi,  MS,  is  in  charge  of  the 
Mechanical  Development  Dept.  of  Kendall 
Co.  in  Walpole,  Mass.  He  also  teaches  at 
South  Shore  Hebrew  High  School  and  lec- 
tures frequently  to  study  groups  on 
Arab-Israeli  affairs. 


1967 

Married:  Army  Capt.  Lawrence  R. 
Gooch  to  Miss  Judith  Anne  Colarusso  of 
Millbury,  Mass.,  on  April  21,  1968.  Larry  is 
currently  stationed  with  the  1st  Battalion, 
44th  Artillery,  at  Dong  Ha,  Vietnam.  .  . 
Noel  M.  Potter  to  Miss  Gail  B.  Aganier  of 
Plattsburgh,  N.Y.,  on  August  9,  1969.  Noel, 
who  earned  his  MS  from  Cornell  last  June,  is 
now  working  toward  his  PhD  from  the  same 
university.  One  of  his  projects  has  been  to 
analyze  samples  of  moon  rock  and  dust 
brought  back  by  Apollo  10  in  July.  .  .  John 
E.  Sonne  to  Miss  Anne  Levin  of  Trappe,  Pa., 
on  November  30,  1969.  John  is  a  research 
assistant  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
Hospital  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  Richard  E.  De- 
Gennaro  to  Miss  Marcia  G.  Karmolinski  of 
Madison,  Conn.,  on  January  17,  1970.  He  is 
employed    as    a    mechanical    engineer    by 


HE  JOURNAL 


39 


United     Illuminating     Co.     of     Bridgeport, 
Conn.  The  couple  lives  in  Branford,  Conn. 

Capt.  John  P.  Dow  is  a  radio  officer 
with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Phu  Bai,  Vietnam.  .  . 
Charles  H.  Goodspeed,  III,  is  studying  under 
a  NASA  Fellowship  at  the  University  of 
Cincinnati.  He  received  his  masters  degree 
from  WPI  in  1969.  .  .  Frank  T.  Jodaitis  was 
recently  promoted  to  first  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army.  He  is  stationed  at  Da  Nang, 
Vietnam.  .  .  Thomas  E.  Kelley  is  a  plant 
technical  service  engineer  in  Everett,  Mass., 
for  Monsanto  Co.  .  .  Leonard  J.  Lambert!  is 
a  graduate  student  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts.  .  .  Ens.  Robert  G.  Mc- 
Andrew,  who  received  an  MS  degree  from 
Texas  A&M  in  1969,  is  presently  stationed 
with  the  U.S.  Navy,  Civil  Engineer  Corps,  at 
Guantanamo  Bay,  Cuba.  .  .  Employed  as  an 
engineer  in  systems  research  at  Corning 
Glass  Works  in  Corning,  N.Y.,  is  Harry  E. 
Taylor. 

Arthur  F.  Amend,  MS,  a  physics  and 
chemistry  teacher  at  Ridgefield  (Conn.) 
High  School,  has  been  named  acting  head  of 
the  Science  Dept.  there.  .  .  Kimberly-Clark 
Corp.  in  New  Milford,  Conn.,  is  the  location 
of  John  Ft.  Cahalen.  John  received  his  MS  in 
ChE  last  year  from  U.  Conn.  .  .  Ronald  A. 
Jolicoeur  is  now  product  engineer,  sales,  at 
Buffalo  Forge  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  Roy  P. 
Lindquist,  who  received  his  MS  last  year 
from  the  University  of  Aberdeen  (Scotland), 
is  now  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Army.  .  .John  E.  Rogozenski,  Jr.  is  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  Amherst,  in  the 
Industrial  Engineering  Dept.  .  .  In  Vietnam, 
1/Lt.  Stephen  B.  Statz  has  received  the 
Army  Commendation  Medal  for  meritorious 
service  while  serving  as  the  officer  in  charge 
of  his  base  camp.  .  .  New  England  High 
Carbon  Wire  Corp.,  Millbury,  Mass.,  is  the 
location  of  Robert  D.  Watkins. 


1968 

Married:  Edward  F.  Cannon,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Laura  Mackey  of  Eureka,  Kan.,  on  Sep- 
tember 6,  1969.  Ed  is  teaching  and  coaching 
at  Worcester  Academy.  .  .  Robert  R.  Demers 
to  Miss  Barbara  M.  Sather  of  Riverside,  R.I., 
on  December  31,  1969.  They  are  living  in 
Riverside,  R.I.  .  .  David  A.  Hopkinson  to 
Miss  Rosemary  Matta  of  Pawtucket,  R.I.,  on 
November  22,  1969.  .  .  Peter  E.  Konopa  to 
Miss  Norma  Johansen  of  Hamden,  Conn.,  on 
December  27,  1969.  Among  the  ushers  was 
Richard  E.  DeGennaro,  '67.  Peter  is  em- 
ployed by  the  Olin  Corp.  .  .  Lt.  Robert  A. 
Wiley  to  Miss  Linda  Elizabeth  Martin  of 
Arlington,  Va.,  in  September,  1969.  Richard 
A.  Mayer  was  best  man.  Bob  is  stationed  at 
Fort  Bliss,  Tex.,  at  present. 

Ens.  John  J.  Bresnahan,  Jr.,  completed 
Naval  Officer  Candidate  School  in  the  fall  of 


1969  and  was  assigned  to  the  Naval  Con- 
struction Battalion  Center  at  Port  Hueneme, 
Calif.  .  .  Employed  in  Rexdale,  Ontario,  by 
Abel  I  Waco  Ltd.  is  Gaetano  A.  Decaro.  .  . 
Army  2/Lt.  John  R.  Hi/yard  is  stationed  at 
the  Lexington  (Ky.)  Blue  Grass  Army  De- 
pot. .  .  Lawrence  E.  Klein,  MS,  is  an  asso- 
ciate engineer  in  the  applied  physics  lab  at 
Johns  Hopkins  Univ.  .  .  Air  Force  2/Lt. 
Richard  Kung  is  an  electronic  engineer  at 
McClellan  AFB,  Calif.  .  .  Another  member 
of  the  class  who  is  in  the  armed  forces  is 
Walter  C.  Lynick.  He  is  in  the  Army  and  is 
stationed  in  Vietnam  as  a  technical  advisor 
in  construction.  .  .  Cary  A.  Palulis  is  an 
industrial  sales  representative  for  the 
Humble  Oil  &  Refining  Co.,  Linden,  N.J. 
Cary  lives  in  Old  Bridge,  N.J.  .  .  Peter  A. 
Saltz  writes:  "I  received  an  MS  degree  from 
the  University  of  Rochester  in  June,  1969. 
My  wife  and  I  are  now  both  working  toward 
PhD  degrees.".  .  .  Richard  J.  Scaia  is  a  dis- 
trict sales  engineer  in  South  Bend,  Ind.,  for 
the  Torrington  Co.  of  Torrington,  Conn.  .  . 
We  have  learned  that  Stephen  C.  Schwarm  is 
an  engineer  with  E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  & 
Co.,  Inc.,  in  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  Stephen  J. 
Stadnicki,  Jr.,  recently  received  a  master  of 
arts  degree  in  chemical  engineering  from 
Princeton  Univ.' 

Wayne  E.  Blanchard,  who  is  production 
supervisor  at  Johnson  &  Johnson's  Surgical 
Adhesives  Mill  in  New  Brunswick,  N.J.,  has 
received  that  company's  manufacturing 
award  in  recognition  of  his  contributions  as 
an  outstanding  production  supervisor.  .  . 
Berton  H.  Gunter  is  in  the  Army  in  Ger- 
many, with  one  more  year  to  go.  Bert 
intends  to  return  to  the  University  of 
Illinois  graduate  school  in  1971.  .  .  Doug/as 
G.  Ferry  is  employed  by  Eastman  Kodak 
Co.,  Rochester,  N.Y.,  as  a  quality  control 
engineer. 

1969 

Married:  Michael  M.  Hart  to  Miss  Ellen 
Blanche  Mayhew  of  Hartland,  Vt.,  on  No- 
vember 22,  1969.  John  T.  Hart,  '65,  was 
best  man  for  his  brother.  Mike  is  employed 
by  Raytheon's  missile  systems  div.  in  Bed- 
ford, Mass.  .  .  David  Lieberman  to  Miss 
Phyllis  Robin  Silverman  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
on  November  22,  1969.  Carlos  N.  Spitz,  '68 
was  best  man,  and  among  the  ushers  were 
Neil  M.  Glickstein,  Gregory  E.  Pollack,  and 
Lawrence  I.  Waxier,  '72.  Dave  is  enrolled  at 
Suffolk  University  School  of  Law  and  is 
employed  by  G.  E.  Co.  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  .  .  2/Lt.  Clifford  M.  Obertuck  to  Miss 
Pamela  Bitter  of  No.  Brookfield,  Mass.,  on 
October  4,  1969.  Cliff  is  stationed  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J. 

Air  Force  2/Lt.  Kenneth  C.  Amend,  MS, 
is  stationed  at  Craig  AFB,  Ala.  .  .  James  F. 
Baxendale  is  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Army.  .  .  William  A.   Bensch,   MS.  is  a  doc- 


toral degree  candidate  in  the  physics  dept. 
at  WPI.  .  .  Richard  C.  Carlson  is  a  military 
policeman  in  the  U.S.  Army  and  is  stationed 
at  Ft.  Gordon,  Ga.  .  .  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  of 
Worcester  employs  Stephen  A.  Erikson  as  a 
chemist.  .  .  Also  employed  in  Worcester  is 
Stanley  J.  Goldman.  He  is  an  estimator  and 
cost  analyst  for  Herbert  Engineering,  Inc.  .  . 
Living  and  working  in  Jeanette,  Pa.,  is  James 
T.  Heinrich.  He  is  an  applications  engineer 
for  the  Elliott  Co.  .  .  James  B.  Hills  is  a  test 
engineer  for  Worcester  Valve  Co.  of  W. 
Boylston,  Mass.  .  .  New  England  Telephone 
&  Telegraph  Co.  employs  David  H.  Johnson 
as  a  dial  service  manager  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  Dave  lives  in  Manchester,  Conn.  .  . 
Vallabhdas  V.  Kantesaria,  MS,  is  a  project 
engineer  for  Combustion  Engineering  of 
Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  Shell  Chemical  Co.  of 
Princeton,  N.J.,  employs  Curtis  S.  Kruger  as 
a  project  engineer.  .  .  John  H.  Murphy  is  a 
research  assistant  in  the  Cryogenic  Lab  at 
MIT.  .  .  James  B.  Myers  is  an  associate  engi- 
neer with  the  Xerox  Corp.  in  Webster,  N.Y., 
and  he  lives  in  Penfield,  N.Y.  .  .  Sanders 
Associates  employs  Gregory  E.  Pollack  as  a 
market  research  analyst  in  Plainview,  N.Y. 
Greg  lives  in  Mineola,  N.Y.  ..  Gerald  M. 
Robbins  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Illinois.  .  .  Rashmikant  C.  Shelat,  MS, 
is  an  assistant  engineer  for  the  Dept.  of 
Highways  in  New  York  City.  .  .  General 
Electric  Co.  employs  Francis  W.  Skwira,  MS, 
as  a  cognizant  engineer  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  .  .  John  E.  Watson  is  a  junior  project 
engineer  in  the  manufacturing  dept.  at 
American  Cyanamid,  Wallingford,  Conn.  .  . 
Among  the  members  of  the  class  who  are  in 
the  service  are:  Army  Lt.  John  C.  Gavitt, 
stationed  at  Ft.  Gordon,  Ga.;  Navy  Ensign 
Ronald  C.  Lewis;  Air  Force  2/Lt.  Douglas 
A.  Nelson,  who  is  in  pilot  training  at  Vance 
AFB,  Okla.;  and  Navy  Ensign  Peter  E.  Nott, 
who  is  stationed  in  Pensacola,  Fla. 

We  have  learned  that  the  following 
members  of  the  class  are  in  the  service: 
2/Lt.  Brian  T.  Abraham  is  in  the  Army  Air 
Defense  Artillery;  2/Lt.  Craig  L.  Mading  is 
at  Mather  AFB,  Calif,  for  navigator  training; 
Paul  V.  Norkevicius  is  a  second  lieutenant  in 
the  Army;  and  Robert  J.  Scott  is  serving 
with  the  Army  in  Vietnam.  .  .  Cameron  P. 
Boyd  is  a  supervisory  assistant  for  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  Merck  &  Co.,  Inc..  in 
Danville,  Pa.,  is  the  location  of  Lawrence  F. 
Folloni,  Jr.  .  .  Joel  P.  Greene  is  employed  by 
the  law  firm  of  Bowditch,  Gowetz  &  Lane 
in  Worcester.  .  .  In  Boston,  Mass.,  Charles  A. 
Kalauskas  works  for  Metcalf  &  Eddy.  Inc., 
as  a  highway  engineer.  .  .  United  Illumi- 
nating in  New  Haven,  Conn.,  employs  Ralph 
C.  Pastore  as  an  electrical  engineer.  .  . 
Robert  B.  Reidy  is  in  engineering  sales  at 
The  Trane  Co.'s  E.  Providence  (R.I.)  sales 
office. 


40 


THE  JOURNAI 


DIRECTORY  OF  CHAPTER   OFFICERS 


Berkshire 

President,  F.  J.  Gamari,  '54,  Sand  Springs  Rd.,  Williamstown,  Mass. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  P.  J.  Hopkinson,  '66,  Lexington  Manor,  Apt.  1 1  A, 

Lee,  Mass. 
Council,  K.  E.  Haaland,  '53,  78  William  St.,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Boston 

President,  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  45  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass. 

Vice  President,  J.  W.  Lebourveau,  '44, 174  Washington  Ave.,  Needham,  Mass. 

Treasurer,  T.  B.  Newman,  Jr.,  '64,  Emerson  Gardens,  Apt.  1 1 , 

Lexington,  Mass. 
Council,  E.  C.  Hoglund,  '27,  26  Willowdale  Rd.,  Winchester,  Mass. 

E.  Lagerholm,  '44, 100  Memorial  Dr.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

D.  J.  Wright,  '46D,  41  Birch  Rd.   Natick,  Mass. 

Central  New  York 

President,  R.  W.  Swanson,  '51 ,  301  Windsor  Dr.,  DeWitt,  N.Y. 
Secretary.  N.  T.  Buske,  '59,  220  Hickok  Ave.,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 
Council,  D.  W.  Prosser,  '61 ,  6  Florence  St.,  Auburn,  N.  Y. 

Chicago 

President,  D.  A.  Johnson,  '60,  21 10  Lilac  Terrace,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 
Secretary,  J.  Wary,  '59,  704  W.  Chicago  Ave.,  Hinsdale,  III. 
Treasurer,  D.  L.  Goodman,  '62,  903  S.  Norbury  St.,  Lombard,  III. 
Council,  R.  A.  Berg,  '59, 1 433  Fairway  Dr.,  Lake  Forest,  III. 

Cleveland- Akron 

President,  R.  D.  Popp,  '54,  515  Parkside  Dr.,  Bay  Village,  Ohio 
Vice  President,  R.  B.  Sundheim,  '58,  3642  Traynham  Rd.,  Shaker  Heights,  Ohio 
Council,  L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34, 1 334  Cleveland  Heights  Blvd., 
Cleveland  Heights,  Ohio 

Connecticut  Valley 

President,  L.  E.  Stratton,  '39,  74  Carlisle  St.,  Springfield.  Mass. 
Vice  President,  D.J.  Schulz,  '61 ,  Granville  Rd.,  Southwick,  Mass. 
Secretary,  P.  J.  Brown,  '50,  50  Van  Horn  St.,  W.  Springfield.  Mass. 
Treasurer,  S.  P.  Mozden,  Jr.,  '63,  55  Lee  St.,  E.  Longmeadow,  Mass. 
Council.  W.  W.  Asp,  '32,  21  2  Birchland  Ave.,  Springfield,  Mass. 
P.  E.  Evans,  '48,  69  Clairmont  St.,  Longmeadow,  Mass. 

Detroit 

President,  E.  H.  Judd,  '50  ,1231  Linden  St.,  Plymouth,  Mich. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  D.  K.  Smith, '67,  1318  E.  Forrest,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Hartford 

President,  J.  F.  Barresi,'60,  28  Stagecoach  Rd.,  Windsor,  Conn. 

Vice  President.  P.  R.  Cultrera, '62,  Bunker  Hill  Rd,,  Canton  Center,  Conn. 

Secretary,  C.  H.  Bidwell,  Jr.,  '57,  21 9  Naubuc  Ave.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn. 

Treasurer,  W.  L.  Brown,  '60,  3  Redstone,  Weatogue,  Conn. 

Council,  E.  C.  Campbell,  '43,  1  5  Fairfield  Rd.,  W.  Hartford,  Conn. 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37,  20  Bates  St.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

J.  J.  O'Connor,  Jr.,  '54,  32  Terrace  Rd.,  Wethersfield,  Conn. 

Hudson -Mohawk 

President,  C.  C  Allen,  '49,  2064  Baker  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  J.J.  Osvald,  '65, 1 1 38  Hendrickson,  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.  A.  Christopher,  '61,  105  Acorn  Dr.,  Scotia,  N.Y. 
Council,  B.  A.  Podberesky,  '58,  876  Whitney  Dr.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Los  Angeles 

President,  P.  C.  Yankauskas,  '42,  4508  Blackthorne  Ave.,  Long  Beach,  Calif. 
Vice  President.  D.  R.  Bates,  '40, 1 791  Terry  Lynn  Dr..  Santa  Anna,  Calif. 

(Mew  Haven 

President,  G.  E.  Flint,  '29,  5  Woodycrest,  Derby,  Conn. 
Vice  President,  J.  J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46C,  255  Riverside  Dr.,  Mt.  Carmel,  Conn. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.  S.  Altenburg,'65,  28  Remer  St.,  Ansonia,  Conn. 
Council,  E.  F.  Cahalen,  '27,  74  Fifth  St.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

C.  W.  McElroy,  '34,  25  Bear  Path  Rd.,  Hamden,  Conn. 

New  York 

President,  S.  L.  Vrusho, '57,  IBM  Corp.,  2  Penn  Plaza,  New  York,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  R.  A.  Lovell,  Jr., '40, 142-05  Roosevelt  Ave.,  Flushing,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  J.  J.  Gushaw,  '35,  999  Roxbury  Dr.,  Westbury,  N.Y. 
Secretary,  B.  E.  Hosmer, '61,  333  E.  30th  St.,  17-B,  New  York,  N.Y. 
Treasurer,  G.  P.  Vittas,  '63,  21 01  Voorhies  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 
Council,  J.  A.  Birch,  '34, 1 534  Wellington  Rd.,  Merrick,  N.Y. 

S.  J.  Spencer,  '49,  5  Normandy  Rd.,  Larchmont,  N.Y. 

T.  B.  Graham,  '38,  1  5  Circle  Rd.,  Scarsdale,  N.Y. 


North  Shore 

President,  D.  E.  Snay,  '63,  Queensland  Rd.,  N.  Billerica,  Mass. 
Vice  President,  D.J.  Dwinell,  '34, 1 6  Manning  St.,  Reading,  Mass. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  C.  Goodchild,  Jr.,  '40,  1  Woodbury  Dr.,  Beverly,  Mass. 
Council,  J.  M.  Szymanski,  '62,  Paradise  Travel  Service,  Inc.,  127  Harvard  St., 
Allston,  Mass. 

Northern  California 
President,  A.  E   Engstrom,  '59,  859  Pine  Lane,  San  Rafael,  Calif. 
Vice  President,  P.  J.  Nyquist,  '50, 1 1 35  Estudillo  St.,  Martinez,  Calif. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.  D.  Riley,  '63,  3220  Acorn  Way,  San  Jose,  Calif. 

Northern  New  Jersey 

President,  S.  K.  Lee,  '60,  31 7  Lawn  Ridge  Rd.,  Orange,  N.  J. 
J/ice  President,  G.  R.  Backlund, '55, 153  Oakland  Rd.,  Maplewood,  N.J. 
Vice  President.  H.  C.  Dearborn,  '37,  32  Colt  Rd.,  Summit,  N.J. 
Secretary,  W.  R.  Hopkins,  '65,  37  W.  Ruby  Ave.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J. 
Treasurer,  V.  E.  Kohman,  '43,  32  Summit  Rd.,  Verona,  N.J. 
Council,  N.  J.  Taupeka.  '58,  105  Stony  Hill  Rd.,  Eatontown,  N.J. 

B.  V.  Ricciardi,  '58,  237  Ivanhoe  Path,  Manasquan,  N.J. 

Pacific  Northwest 

President,  P.J  Topelian, '30,  443  160th  Ave.,  S.E.,  Bellevue,  Wash. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  M.  Lloyd,  II, '51, 15714  S.E.  26th  St.,  Bellevue,  Wash. 

Philadelphia 

Acting  President,  J.  F.  Howe,  Jr., '57,  2217  Winding  Way,  Drexel  Hill,  Pa. 

Pittsburgh 

President,  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55,  804  Ella  St.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Vice  President,  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36,  212  Connecting  Rd.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  G.  B.  Brown,  '55,  140  Sunset  Dr.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Council,  L.  H.  Longton,  Jr., '49,  120  Watt  Lane,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Rhode  Island 

President,  J.  K.  Karalekas,  '58,  74  Ferncrest  Dr.,  E.  Providence,  R.I. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.  F.  DiZoglio, '60,  RFD  1,  Box  451,  N.  Scituate,  R.I. 
Council.  W.  R.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58,  37  Fir  Glade  Dr.,  Warwick,  R.I. 

Rochester- Genesee 

President,  R.  P.  Kostka,  '63,  222  Colwick  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  L.  J.  Rossi, '61,  214  Elmgrove  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  C.  E.  Hunt,  Jr.,  '34,  8  Birmingham  Dr.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Council,  A.  R.  Hunderup,  '56,  625  Shadyglen  Circle,  Webster,  N.Y. 

Southeastern 

Acting  President,  C.  Hammarstrom, '34,  557  E.  Wesley  Rd.,  N.E.,  Atlanta,  Ga. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.  C.  Bragg,  '24,  Georgia  Inst,  of  Technology, 
Engineering  Mechanics,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Washington 

President,  D.  J.  Brosnihan,  III,  '62,  4110  Arcadia  Rd.,  Alexandria,  Va. 
Vice  President,  K.  A.  Homon,  '62,  7704  Miller  Fall  Rd.,  Rockville,  Md. 
Secretary,  D.  M.  Cornell,  '60,  9  N.  Summit  Dr.,  Apt.  302,  Gaithersburg,  Md. 
Treasurer.  J.  W.  Mahan,  '60,  3907  Isbell  St.,  Wheaton,  Md. 
Council,  L.  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35,  4023  Oliver  St.,  Chevy  Chase,  Md. 
W.  J.  Bank.  '46B,  7704  Massena  Rd.,  Bethesda,  Md. 

Western  New  York 

President,  K.  R.  Berggren,  Jr.,  '49,  685  Porterville  Rd.,  E.  Aurora,  N.Y. 

Vice  President,  J.  H.  Geffken,  '63,  379  Fruitwood  Terr.,  Williamsville,  N.Y. 

Secretary-Treasurer,  J.  B.  Flynn,  Jr.,  '69,  Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Durey  Div., 

N.  Tonawanda,  N.Y. 
Council,  F.  W.  Swan,  '35, 1 28  Church  St.,  E.  Aurora,  N.Y. 

Wilmington 

Acting  President,  H.  F.  DeCarli,  '52,  2405  Landon  Dr.,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Ferrari,  '51 ,  2404  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Secretary,  W.  E.  Lankau,  Jr.,  '64,  6  Rector  Ct.,  Apt.  C,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Treasurer,  R.  F.  Smith,  111/61,3351  Altamont  Dr.,  Devonshire,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Council,  P.  Michelman,  '51 ,  241 0  Lori  Lane  South,  Tarleton,  Wilmington,  Del. 

Worcester 

President,  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  4  Haviland  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Howard,  '51 ,  9  St.  Kevin  Rd..  Worcester,  Mass. 
Secretary,  R.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56,  WPI,  Admissions  Office,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Treasurer,  C.  W.  Mello,  '61,  6  Orrison  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Council,  R.  P.  Engvall,  '57,  30  Conger  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

N.  J.  Crowley,  '50,  26  Willard  Ave.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

S.  R.  Lindberg,  '51 ,  98  Beechwood  Rd.,  Holden,  Mass. 

P.  F.  Seibold,  '50,  6  Olean  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

A.  J.  Ruksnaitis,  '53,  32  Saxon  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

N.  M.  Gamache, '38, 10  Midland  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

C.  W.  Mello,  '61 


THE  JOURNAL 


41 


EXPED7 THE UNEXPECTED 

FROM 


NORTON 


A  TAPE  THAT  MUFFLES  SOUND. 


Norton  started  a  quiet  revolu- 
tion with  Bear®  vinyl  foam  tape 

Vinyl  means  it  literally  locks  out 
dust,  moisture  —  even  air  pollution.    \ 
Foam  construction  means  it  cushions 
sound. 

The  fact  that  it  comes  in  self-sticking 
strips  means  it's  an  ideal  sealant  for 
wall  partitions,  windows  and  doors. 
The  perfect  way  to  keep  on  friendly 
terms  with  the  wind,  the  rain  and  the 
neighbors. 


Norton  makes  a  vast  variety  of  tapes 
for  industrial  and  household  uses. 
Other  Norton  contributions  to  mod- 
ern living  include  filters  to  make 
water  drinkable;  "gentle"  plastic- 
bonded  tumbling  media  to  -mass- 
finish  delicate  dining  utensils;  the 

lightest/warmest  blanket  in  the  world 
—evolved  from  material  used  in  the 
NASA  Apollo  program.  Norton  Com- 
pany world-wide:    where  you  can 

expect  the  unexpected. 

Norton  Company,  Worc«»tar,  Matsachuietts  01606 


'^^10r#< 


...because  its  there 


Eager  for  new  challenges.  Pride  in  con- 
quering frontiers  of  forging  technology. 
Ability  bred  of  85  years  pioneering  in 
metalworking -that's  Wyman-Gordon  G2 

Wyman-Gordon  Company.  Worcester.  Mass.  •  Chicago.  Detroit.  Dayton.  Los  Angeles.  Fori  Worth.  Seattle.  Bombay.  Geneva      ^^^^ 


the 
journal 

Published  by  the  Alumni  Association 
of  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

W.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 
President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 
Vice  presidents: 
R.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 

W.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 

Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 

S.  J.  Hebert,  '66; 

Past  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36; 

Executive  Committee, 

Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  C.  C.  Bonin,  '38; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
Fund  Board: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 
R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  G.  F.  Crowther,  '37; 
L.  G.  Humphrey,  Jr., '35;A.  Kalenian, '33; 
L.  A.  Penoncello,  '66. 

Alumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Office  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Magazine  Secretary: 

Nance  C.  Thompson; 

Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter. 


In  This  Issue 


The  WPI  Plan  —  A  Personalized  Educational  Program 


page  two 


Formerly   called   the   Two  Towers  IV  Plan,  this  modern  approach  to  engineering  has  been 
adopted  by  the  faculty  and  trustees. 


Win,  Place,  and  Show?  page  four 

WPI     has    high    hopes    of    sweeping    to    victory    in    the    minimum    pollution    cross-country 
automobile  race  which  now  has  about  70  entries  from  over  40  colleges  in  North  America. 


Commencement  Week  1970 


page  six 


Vol.  74 


Summer  1970 


Commencement  Week  on  every  college  campus  is  a  busy  time  every  year  and  WPI  is  no 
exception.  But  unlike  many  colleges  this  year,  the  week  was  entirely  peaceful  and  without 
disorder,  a  fine  tribute  to  the  whole  WPI  Community. 


Ed  Delano, '30:  California  Traveler page  fifteen 

An  outstanding  feat  was  accomplished  by  an  exceptionally  physically-fit  alumnus  as  he  rode  a 
bicycle  over  3000  miles  to  attend  his  40th  Reunion. 

Reorganization  Approved  page  eighteen 

After  a  lengthy  consideration  of  the  plans,  the  administrative  reorganization  of  the  Alumni 
Association  has  been  approved  and  implemented. 

Missing  Alumni  -  Can  You  Help?  page  eighteen 

About  300  of  the  more  than  9,300  WPI  alumni  are  without  a  current  mailing  address.  Do  you 
know  the  location  of  any  of  them? 

Another  Successful  U.N.  Meeting  page  thirty-seven 

For  the  second  consecutive  year,  the  New  York  and  Northern  New  Jersey  Chapters  have  held 
a  meeting  at  the  United  Nations  building. 


Warren  B.  Zepp, '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

The  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
Spring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
matter  July  26.  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
year.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
Alumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes 16 

Athletic  Schedules 20 

Annual  Alumni  Fund  Report  21 

Reunion  Round-Up 39 

In  Memory  45 

Your  Class  and  Others 50 


THE  JOURNAL 


THE  WPI  PLAN 


EDUCATIONAL 
PROGRAM 


The  WPI  Plan,  formerly  called  the  Two  Towers  IV  Plan, 
has  been  approved  by  the  faculty  and  the  trustees.  The 
faculty  approved  the  Plan  by  a  vote  of  92  to  46  with  three 
abstentions.  An  interesting  observation  of  those  who  voted 
negatively  indicated  that  most  did  not  oppose  the  total  Plan 
but  rather  only  portions  of  it  and  that  some  negative  votes 
were  cast  because  the  Plan  did  not  go  far  enough. 

Thus,  WPI  has  embarked  on  a  course  which  places  the 
college  in  a  leadership  position  in  the  education  world.  In 
the  past,  many  schools  have  tried  portions  of  the  innova- 
tions, and  now  WPI  has  become  the  first  engineering  college 
in  the  country  to  adopt  such  a  comprehensive  and 
far-reaching  program.  The  Plan  commits  the  college  to 
providing  an  educational  experience  which  will  be  respon- 
sive to  each  student's  personal  goals,  using  for  some  of  its 
course  material  real-life  problems  of  concern  to  the  student, 
all  developed  within  an  academic  calendar  which  permits 
flexibility  with  respect  to  time  span  and  learning  pace. 

Major  innovations  in  the  WPI  Plan  call  for  up  to  25%  of 
the  education  to  be  involved  with  independent  study  and 
projects  of  a  real  nature,  while  75%  of  the  education  will 
continue  to  be  on  a  classroom-type  basis.  Traditional 
lectures  will  continue  to  carry  a  large  portion  of  the 
teaching  while  individual  and  smaller  group  conferences  will 
personalize  the  learning  process. 

In  addition  to  being  educated  on  the  WPI  campus,  the 
Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher  Education  and  internship 
centers  will  play  an  important  role  in  the  education  of  each 
student.  The  Consortium,  which  is  a  joint  venture  by  WPI 
with  five  other  four-year  colleges  and  four  two-year  colleges 
in  the  area,  will  provide  opportunities  for  cross-registration 
by  undergraduates,  joint  curriculum  projects,  cooperating 
libraries,  a  shared  computer,  and  shared  faculties. 

A  unique  aspect  of  the  WPI  Plan  is  the  establishment  of 
internship  centers  of  WPI  at  research  laboratories,  industrial 
plant  locations,  government  centers,  and  social  service 
organizations.  The  internship  centers  will  make  it  possible 
to  carry  on  projects  which  are  best  handled  "on-site."  They 
will  usually  consist  of  15  students  and  resident  faculty 
support.  However,  special  studies  or  projects  will  be 
arranged,  from  time  to  time,  for  smaller  groups  at  locations 
without  a  regular  internship  center.  While  the  work  will 
focus  on  real  problems  of  the  host  organization,  full 
educational  direction  will  remain  with  WPI. 

This  third  resource  adds  especially  relevant  experiences 
to  be  drawn  on  by  the  student  and  his  advisor.  Knowledge 


THE  JOURNAL 


is  not  limited  to  that  which  has  been  reduced  to  a  textbook 
and  then  integrated  into  a  "course"  by  the  faculty.  The 
student  sees  his  field  of  interest  in  flux  and  growth,  and  in 
its  multidisciplinary  interrelationships.  Here  he  can  evaluate 
his  educational  objectives  while  he  still  has  time  to  change. 

The  Plan  adopts  the  concept  of  four  seven-week  terms, 
normally  with  three  subject  areas  per  term,  in  place  of  the 
now-existent  two  semesters  with  five  or  six  courses  per 
semester.  This  program  of  concentration  on  only  three 
subjects  at  a  time  will,  hopefully,  provide  a  greater  focus  of 
attention  and  more  efficient  and  effective  learning.  A  fifth 
term  of  seven  weeks  during  the  summer  will  enable  students 
to  either  accelerate  their  programs  or  to  lighten  their 
academic  schedules  during  the  year.  The  calendar,  with  its 
flexibility,  will  lend  itself  to  easily  meeting  the  needs  of 
students  with  varying  backgrounds. 

In  January  of  each  year,  an  Intersession  will  bring 
together  on  campus  visiting  scholars,  experts  from  industry 
and  government,  faculty  and  students,  in  a  series  of  three 
week-long  seminars. 

Each  seminar  will  be  an  intensive  examination  of  a 
particular  field  of  interest.  This  concentration  will  enable 
the  faculty  to  keep  abreast  of  developing  technologies  in 
their  fields  of  specialization,  and  to  be  made  aware  of 
developments  in  other  fields  of  ancillary  interest.  The 
visiting  experts  will  both  contribute  to  these  seminars  and 
advance  their  own  knowledge  by  sharing  views  with  other 
experts  in  the  field.  The  student  will  undergo  an  intensive 
educational  experience  which  will  further  his  knowledge 
and  provide  him  with  a  means  of  evaluating  many  different 
career  opportunites. 

Performance  Evaluation 

The  WPI  Plan  adopts  a  grading  and  evaluation  system 
based  on  self-motivation.  A  truly  professional  person 
achieves  because  of  his  inherent  desire  to  promote  an  ideal 
he  believes  in  or  a  project  for  which  he  is  responsible.  In 
preparing  a  student  to  enter  the  professional  world,  the 
faculty  are  his  natural  allies.  An  abstract  numerical  grading 
system  tends  to  destroy  this  alliance  and  hinder  the 
educational  process  in  advancing  the  student's  goals.  For 
these  reasons  WPI  has  adopted  a  unique  grading  system 
based  upon  personal  written  evaluations  by  each  faculty 
member.  These  evaluations  include  the  grades  of  acceptable 
with  distinction,  acceptable,  or  not  acceptable  in  all  studies, 
plus  a  written  evaluation  of  the  student  in  all  projects  or 
independent  studies.  In  the  case  of  a  project,  an  abstract  of 


the  student's  work  will  be  included  with  the  full  report  on 
file  in  the  college's  library.  The  sum  total  of  these  written 
evaluations  helps  the  student  in  his  personal  development 
and  allows  him  to  show  future  colleagues  his  developing 
strengths. 

Graduation  Requirements 

The  Plan  has  adopted  a  graduation  requirement  which 
tests  competence  through  the  application  of  knowledge  to 
unfamiliar  problems.  A  comprehensive  examination  de- 
signed to  require  broad  knowledge  in  a  field  of  study,  and 
two  advanced  level  projects  or  independent  studies  drawn 
from  real-life  situations,  are  the  mechanisms  for  testing  that 
competence.  These  will  not  be  narrow  academic  exercises, 
but  rather  seven-week  projects  or  independent  studies  and 
one-  or  two-week  comprehensives,  with  all  sources  of 
information  available,  just  as  will  be  the  case  after 
graduation. 

Summary 

The  WPI  Plan  is  the  result  of  a  thorough  investigation  of 
the  demands  of  society  on  higher  education.  It  assumes  that 
a  liberal  education  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  twentieth 
century  must  have  a  strong  technical  and  scientific  base  and 
that  the  individual  who  is  to  be  truly  educated  must 
examine  thoroughly  all  of  the  implications  of  technology 
for  human  welfare. 

The  various  modes  of  instruction,  the  individualized 
advising  and  curricular  programs,  the  new  academic  calen- 
dar, the  off-campus  internship  centers,  the  refreshing  new 
approach  to  the  evaluation  of  student  work,  and  the  joining 
of  faculty  and  students  in  learning,  are  the  outstanding 
features  of  the  Plan. 

With  its  innovations  and  positive  attitude  toward 
learning,  the  WPI  Plan  is  an  exciting  and  difficult  under- 
taking for  an  independent  college  of  engineering  and 
science.  The  flexibility  of  the  Plan  accommodates  the 
varying  backgrounds,  needs,  and  motivations  of  the 
entering  students.  While  encouraging  the  undergraduate  to 
be  responsible  and  accountable  for  his  own  education,  the 
college  will  provide  him  with  excellent  advising;  a  variety  of 
contacts  with  expert  faculty  in  both  basic  and  specialized 
fields;  modern  library,  laboratory,  and  other  technical 
resources;  an  opportunity  to  study  at  off-campus  sites;  and 
above  all,  a  community  where  both  the  student  and  the 
faculty  member  find  about  them  a  group  of  people 
enjoying  learning  and  attempting  to  solve  some  of  the  most 
difficult  problems  of  the  time. 


THE  JOURNAL 


WIN 


AND 
SHOW? 


The  Propane  Gasser,  the  Hybrid- Electric  Vehicle,  the 
Great  Teakettle,  the  Clean  Air  Saab,  and  the  Dark  Horse 
Entry  are  ready  for  post  time.  The  course  has  been  set.  The 
judges  are  ready.  And  the  Clean  Air  Car  Race  is  set  to  begin 
August  24.  With  some  40  low  pollution  automobiles 
entered  by  college  students  from  campuses  throughout 
North  America,  it  promises  to  be  not  only  an  exciting  race, 
but  also  a  vivid  means  of  demonstrating  the  effectiveness  of 
low  pollution  automobiles  in  the  fight  against  air  pollution. 

The  response  from  students  at  WPI  has  been  over- 
whelming. About  60  students  responded  to  the  initial 
announcement  and  five  entries  have  been  prepared.  Much 
of  the  support  for  the  program  has  come  from  American 
industry,  with  some  financial  support  from  a  special  alumni 
solicitation  and  from  other  donors.  The  only  design 
requirement  for  the  entries  is  that  they  must  produce  less 
pollution  than  that  which  will  be  required  for  vehicles  in 
the  state  of  California  in  1975.  The  race  has  been  organized 
by  a  committee  of  students  from  MIT,  Caltech,  and  other 
schools. 

There  will  be  overnight  stopping  and  repair  facilities  in 
Toronto,  Ont.;  Detroit,  Mich.;  Champaign,  III.;  Tulsa, 
Okla;  Odessa,  Tex.;  and  Tucson,  Ariz.  There  will  also  be 
frequent  substations  along  the  route  where  electric  entries 
will  be  able  to  recharge  batteries  and  where  cars  using  other 
types  of  non-conventional  fuel  (propane,  compressed  na- 
tural gas,  etc.)  will  be  able  to  replenish  their  supplies.  All 
competing  groups  will  be  required  to  do  their  own  driving 
and  to  make  their  own  roadside  repairs  as  necessary.  Each 
entry  will  be  accompanied  by  an  observer  or  judge. 

Beginning  August  17,  the  week  before  the  start  of  the 
race,  the  entries  will  be  subjected  to  a  series  of  detailed 
performance  and  emission  tests  in  the  Boston  area.  Based 
on  these  tests,  points  will  be  awarded  and  penalties  will  be 
assessed  which  will   be  used  in  determining  the  eventual 


winners.  The  actual  race  will  begin  August  24  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  and  will  proceed  the  3,600  miles  to  Pasadena,  Calif., 
along  a  predetermined  route. 

The  cars  will  follow  the  Massachusetts  Turnpike  and  the 
New  York  State  Thruway  to  Buffalo,  N.Y.  From  Buffalo, 
the  cars  will  follow  Interstate  290  and  1-190  to  Niagara 
Falls  and  cross  over  into  Canada.  They  will  follow  the 
Queen  Elizabeth  Way  to  Toronto  and  then  take  Prov.  401 
from  Toronto  until  they  cross  back  into  the  United  States 
at  Detroit. 

From  Detroit  the  cars  will  follow  I-94  through  Michigan 
to  Michigan  City,  Ind.,  where  they  will  pick  up  I-90  and 
then  I-80  through  Indiana  to  a  point  just  south  of  Chicago, 
where  they  will  pick  up  I-57  southward.  In  Effingham,  III., 
the  race  will  switch  to  I-70  and  they  will  follow  I-70  to  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 

From  St.  Louis  the  route  will  take  the  cars  along  I-44 
through  Missouri  and  to  Oklahoma  City.  In  Oklahoma  City 
the  cars  will  pick  up  I-35  which  will  take  them  to  Dallas, 
Tex.  From  Dallas  the  route  turns  westward  again  along  I-20 
and  1-10  to  Casa  Grande,  Ariz. 

At  Casa  Grande  the  route  will  take  the  cars  along  I-8  to 
San  Diego,  where  they  will  swing  northward  along  I-5, 
taking  them  into  the  Los  Angeles  area.  The  final  few  miles 
will  be  along  the  Pasadena  Freeway  to  Pasadena  and  the 
Caltech  campus  where  post-race  performance  and  emission 
tests  will  be  conducted  and  the  winner  declared. 

Along  the  race  route  Pit  Crews  have  been  organized  by 
a  Committee  headed  by  Walter  Dennen,  '18,  and  Enfried 
Larson,  '22.  Pit  Crew  Chiefs  are:  John  Geffken,  '63,  of 
Williamsville,  N.Y.  for  Toronto;  Ed  Judd,  '50,  of  Plymouth, 
Mich,  for  Detroit;  Prof.  Mohammad  Amin  in  Champaign, 
III.;  Bill  Dorman,  '48,  of  Tulsa  for  Oklahoma  City;  Arthur 
Dinsmoor,  '49,  of  Midland  for  Odessa,  Texas;  Robert 
Johnson,  '27,  of  Green  Valley,  Ariz,  for  Tucson;  and  Paul 
Yankauskas,  '42,  of  Long  Beach,  Calif,  for  Pasadena. 


THE  JOURNAL 


A  team  works  on  the 

Clean  Air  Saab.   At 

far  left  is  Nancy  Wood,  '73, 

of  Gardner,  Mass.,  who  will  be 

one  of  the  drivers  of 

the  entry. 


ROUTE  OF  CLEAN  AIR  CAR  RACE,  1970 


|V,,\d9« 


I 


■HE  JOURNAL 


Commencement  Week 


ALUMNI  MEETINGS 

For  some  of  the  alumni  the  week- 
end began  on  Thursday  afternoon  with 
a  Fund  Board  meeting.  With  Chairman 
Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  of 
Shrewsbury,  Mass.  presiding,  the  first 
item  of  business  was  the  election  of  a 
Chairman  for  the  next  year.  Mr.  Dona- 
hue was  re-elected  to  a  third  term. 
Following  this  the  selection  of  recom- 
mendations for  membership  on  the 
Fund  Board  was  made  and  Aram 
Kalenian,  '33,  was  recommended  for  a 
second  three-year  term  and  Lawrence 
A.  Penoncello,  '66,  was  recommended 
for  his  first  three-year  term. 

The  progress  of  the  1969-70  An- 
nual Fund  was  discussed  and  it  was 
noted  that  contributions  as  of  June  4 
totaled  $114,101.42  from  2578  gifts 
with  an  additional  $12,269.88  from 
matching  gifts. 

A  discussion  of  plans  for  the 
1970-71  Annual  Fund  was  next. 
Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  Assistant 
Alumni  Secretary,  mentioned  that 
under  the  administrative  reorganiza- 
tion plans  that  methods  of  fund  raising 
would  probably  face  major  revision. 
The  key  item  would  involve  personal 
solicitation  on  a  chapter-by-chapter 
basis.  Final  details  of  this  were  not 
available. 

The  Executive  Committee  met  Fri- 
day morning.  President  Robert  E. 
Higgs,  '40,  presided  and  opened  the 
meeting  by  asking  for  a  moment  of 
silence  in  memory  of  Thomas  L. 
Counihan,  '24,  who  had  passed  away 
on  June  2.  In  his  President's  message 
Mr.  Higgs  termed  the  past  year  as  a 
year  of  much  success  and  much  prog- 
ress. He  said  that  the  success  was  a 
culmination  of  many  years'  work  by 
many  people  and  he  singled  out  for 
special  praise  the  work  of  Bradley  E. 


Hosmer,  '61,  and  his  Administrative 
Reorganization  Committee.  In  con- 
clusion, he  stated  his  belief  that  the 
Alumni  Association  is  a  dynamic  part 
of  the  Institute  and  should  play  a  vital 
role  in  its  operation. 

In  other  business,  Mr.  Donahue 
gave  a  report  of  the  Fund  Board,  Olavi 
H.  Halttunen,  '45,  outlined  plans  for 
the  coming  year  and  the  budget  was 
given  Committee  approval. 

The  Alumni  Council  met  Friday 
afternoon  following  a  luncheon  in 
Morgan  Hall  with  16  chapters  repre- 
sented. The  meeting  was  presided  over 
by  President  Higgs  who  gave  his  Presi- 
dent's report  which  he  had  previously 
given  to  the  Executive  Committee.  He 
introduced  Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard 
who  commented  on  the  role  of  alumni 
and  on  the  proposed  budget  of  the 
college  for  1970-71,  which  he  noted 
would  show  a  deficit. 

The       Nominating       Committee, 
chaired    by   Stephen  J.  Spencer,  '49, 
presented  its  report  and  in  due  process 
the  following  officers  were  elected: 
President  Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Vice  President  Bradley  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
Secretary-  Treasurer 

Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Executive  Committee 
Member-a  t- large 

Carl  W.  Backstrom,  '30 
Member-at-large 

Leonard  Polizzotto,  '70 
Fund  Board  Member 

Aram  Kalenian,  '33 
Fund  Board  Member 

Lawrence  A.  Penoncello,  '66 

No  action  was  necessary  on  the 
continuing  terms  of  Ralph  R.  Gabarro, 
'51,  Vice  President  and  Plummer 
Wiley,  '35  and  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37, 
Executive  Committee  Members-at- 
large. 


In  the  most  important  single 
action  of  the  day,  the  Council  gave 
unanimous  approval  to  the  recommen- 
dations for  administrative  re- 
organization after  making  only  a  few 
minor  changes.  (An  article  on  the 
reorganization  appears  elsewhere  in 
this  issue). 

REUNION  DAY 

With  the  weatherman  uncoopera- 
tive for  the  first  time  in  recent  years. 
Reunion  Day  began  with  breakfast  for 
those  who  had  had  rooms  in  Daniels 
Hall  Friday  night.  The  rain,  however, 
which  forced  the  festivities  inside  into 
Morgan  Hall,  never  dampened  the 
spirits  of  the  large  turnout. 

Registration  was  held  in  the  lobby 
of  Morgan  Hall  during  the  morning. 
During  coffee,  the  50- Year  Associates 
met  in  Daniels  Hall  and  elected  one  of 
the  newest  members,  Malcolm  B. 
Arthur,  '20,  as  their  president.  Being 
president  of  a  group  is  nothing  new  for 
Malcolm  as  he  is  also  president  of  his 
class.  Class  pictures  were  taken  prior 
to  the  luncheon  and  the  classes  of 
1935  and  1920  both  had  over  60 
people  in  their  pictures.  After  the 
pictures,  over  350  people  gathered  in 
the  Morgan  Hall  dining  room  for  a  fine 
meal  prepared  by  the  Morgan  Hall 
kitchen  staff  headed  by  Al  Begin. 

The  invocation  was  given  by  Win- 
throp  G.  Hall,  '02,  and  the  luncheon 
was  served.  Following  the  luncheon, 
Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40,  who  had  been 
re-elected  president  of  the  Alumni 
Association  the  previous  day,  intro- 
duced the  guests  seated  at  the  head 
table,  including  WPI  President,  Dr. 
George  W.  Hazzard. 

In  his  first  address  at  a  Reunion 
Day  luncheon.  Dr.  Hazzard  noted  his 
pleasure  at  the  large  turnout  of  alumni 
for  the  festivities  as  well  as  the  excel- 


THE  JOURNAL 


lent  receptions  he  and  Mrs.  Hazzard 
had  received  in  their  travels  during  the 
past  year  to  most  of  the  alumni 
chapters.  He  also  commended  several 
of  the  older  alumni  in  attendance  for 
their  dedication  and  interest  and  he 
commended  other  alumni,  namely, 
Leslie  J.  Chaffee,  '16,  John  T.  Hege- 
man,  '45,  and  Robert  E.  Scott,  '45,  for 
traveling,  respectively,  from  Tacoma, 
Washington,  Cranbrook,  British 
Columbia  and  London,  England  to 
attend  the  Reunion.  In  conclusion,  he 
invited  everyone  to  stop  in  at  his 
office  in  the  southeast  corner  of  Boyn- 
ton  Hall  whenever  they  are  in  the  area. 
The  annual  Alumni  Meeting  was 
then  held.  Robert  Higgs,  '40,  Presi- 
dent, presided.  In  his  opening  remarks 
he  explained  what  a  busy  year  it  had 
been  and  said  that  the  accomplish- 
ments of  the  year  were  the  results  of 
work  which  had  been  going  on  for 
many  years  and  that  his  administration 
was  not  solely  responsible.  He  thanked 
all  those  who  had  helped  during  his 
first  year,  and  in  particular  singled  out 
for   praise,    Bradley    E.    Hosmer,   '61, 


Chairman,  and  the  other  members  of 
the  Administrative  Reorganization 
Committee.  He  then  introduced  Brad 
to  explain  the  recommendations  of  his 
committee.  Following  his  explanation, 
Aram  Kalenian,  '33,  made  a  motion 
to  change  the  wording  of  the  recom- 
mendation, but  on  a  voice  vote  this 
was  defeated.  The  total  program  of 
recommendations  was  voted  on  next 
and  was  passed.  With  no  further  busi- 
ness, the  meeting  was  adjourned  and 
the  presentation  of  awards  followed. 

First  of  the  presentations  was  the 
fifty-year  diplomas.  These  were  pre- 
sented by  President  Hazzard  and  Dean 
Martin  C.  Van  de  Visse  to  34  members 
of  the  Class  of  1920. 

Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  32,  Chair- 
man of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  pre- 
sented Robert  H.  Goddard  Awards  for 
Professional  Achievement  to  Walter  L. 
Abel,  '39  and  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45.  Mr. 
Abel  is  vice-president  for  corporate 
systems  and  director  of  research  for 
the  USM  Corp.  of  Beverly,  Mass.  Mr. 
Fyler  is  president  of  Arrow-Hart,  Inc. 


of  Hartford,  Conn. 

The  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for 
Distinguished  Service  to  the  Institute 
was  presented  to  Chandler  W.  Jones, 
'26,  by  Alumni  President  Higgs. 

The  "special"  reunion  class  mes- 
sages were  the  next  item  on  the 
program.  Representing  the  Class  of 
1920  was  their  president,  Malcolm  B. 
Arthur,  who  presented  a  check  for 
over  S  10,000  to  the  Institute  as  their 
class  gift.  The  Class  of  1945  was 
represented  by  Robert  E.  Scott. 
Noting  that  their  class  could  not 
match  the  gift  from  the  Class  of  1920, 
he  nevertheless  did  present  a  gift  to 
WPI  which  was  in  excess  of  $3,000. 
The  president  of  the  graduating  class, 
Leonard  Polizzotto,  represented  his 
class  and  recalled  some  of  the  high- 
lights of  the  class'  four  years  at  WPI. 

The  Class  of  1917  Attendance  Cup 
was  presented  to  the  Class  of  1920  for 
the  best  attendance  at  the  reunion  on 
a  percentage  basis.  They  had  35  of  the 
69  living  members  of  their  class  in 
attendance. 


THE  JOURNAL 


40  seniors  received  their 
commissions  at  ceremonies 
in  Alden. 


Photo  courtesy  of  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette. 


Ed  Delano.  '30.  receives  a  trophy 

from  Warren  Zepp,  '42  at 

the  reunion  luncheon  for  riding 

a  bicycle  from  California 

to  Worcester. 


THE  JOURNAL 


A  special  award  was  then  pre- 
sented by  Prof.  Zepp.  It  was  a  trophy 
with  a  bicycle  rider  on  it  and  it  was 
presented  to  Edward  R.  Delano,  '30. 
An  article  on  Mr.  Delano,  who  rode  a 
bicycle  from  California  to  Worcester, 
appears  elsewhere  in  this  issue.  In 
accepting  the  award,  Mr.  Delano  com- 
mented, "A  lot  of  people  in  the  West 
and  Midwest,  who  had  never  heard  of 
Worcester  Tech,  have  heard  of  it  now." 

The  final  two  items  on  the  pro- 
gram were  the  singing  of  the  Alma 
Mater,  capably  led  by  Lenny  Poliz- 
zotto  and  the  Benediction,  which  was 
given  by  Mr.  Hall,  '02. 

But  Reunion  Day  was  not  over  for 
many.  Many  attended  the  ROTC 
commissioning  ceremonies  which  were 
held  in  Alden  Memorial.  The  Com- 
manding General  of  the  U.S.  Army's 
Signal  Center  and  Signal  School  at 
Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.,  Brigadier  Gen- 
eral Richard  C.  Home,  III  presented 
commissions  to  40  members  of  the 
graduating  class.  Others  were  to  attend 
class  get-togethers.  One  class,  the  Class 
of  1945,  met  at  the  Sheraton  Yankee 
Drummer  Inn  in  Auburn  for  their  25th 
reunion  party  and  36  members  of  their 
class  were  in  attendance. 

And  thus  Reunion  Day,  1970, 
drew  to  a  close  for  the  alumni.  Many 
were  to  remain,  however,  for  Baccalau- 
reate and  Commencement.  But  for 
those  who  were  leaving,  it  had  been  a 
successful  weekend.  Seeing  old  friends, 
recalling  fond  memories,  making  plans 
for  their  next  reunion  had  all  been  a 
part  of  it. 

But  for  the  graduating  seniors 
Commencement  Weekend  was  just  be- 
ginning. On  Saturday  night  many 
members  of  the  class  returned  for  the 
annual  dinner  dance.  It  was  held  at  the 
Yankee  Drummer  Inn  and  was  all  a 
part  of  the  build-up  to  Commence- 
ment Day  which  265  seniors  had  only 
dreamed  about  four  —  and  for  some, 
five  —  years  ago. 

COMMENCEMENT  DAY 

The  day  began  with  the  traditional 
Baccalaureate  Service  in  Alden  Memo- 
rial  Hall   at   10:00  A.M.   The  sermon 


this  year  was  delivered  by  Rev.  Dr. 
Wallace  W.  Robbins  of  the  First  Uni- 
tarian Church  of  Worcester. 

The  long-awaited  graduation  hour 
approached  on  Sunday  afternoon  as 
those  receiving  degrees  gathered  in 
front  of  Boynton  Hall  to  form  the 
processional.  A  small  percentage  were 
wearing  armbands  in  protest  but  they 
were  only  a  very  small  number  out  of 
the  total  of  265  candidates.  Led  by 
Honorary  Marshal,  Prof.  John  P.  van 
Alstyne,  WPI's  Outstanding  Teacher  of 
the  Year,  and  by  the  Marshal,  Dean 
Richard  F.  Morton,  the  processional 
proceeded  across  Earle  Bridge  and  the 
Quadrangle  into  Harrington  Audito- 
rium, followed  by  the  faculty,  admin- 
istration, and  trustees. 

The  invocation  was  given  by  the 
Rev.  Peter  J.  Scanlon,  Catholic  chap- 
lain at  WPI.  The  National  Anthem 
followed  before  President  George  W. 
Hazzard  introduced  Dr.  Thomas  O. 
Paine,  Administrator  of  the  National 
Aeronautics  and  Space  Administra- 
tion, who  delivered  the  principal 
address. 

He  announced  for  the  first  time 
that  the  United  States  is  negotiating 
with  European  countries  on  a  plan  to 
launch  and  operate  an  orbiting  scien- 
tific laboratory  by  1980.  He  said  "I 
have  just  returned  yesterday  (June  6) 
from  a  week  in  Europe  negotiating 
with  other  nations  to  work  with  us"  in 
launching  such  a  laboratory.  If  these 
efforts  come  to  fruition,  he  said,  and 
"if  America  maintains  its  momentum 
in  space,  it  will  be  possible  for  young 
professors  and  their  graduate  students 
to  routinely  travel  back  and  forth  to 
do  research  in  an  international  orbiting 
laboratory  before  the  end  of  the 
decade  of  the  seventies."  He  did  not 
elaborate  on  his  negotiations  or  his 
proposal  for  an  orbiting  laboratory. 

He  spent  much  of  his  time  com- 
paring what  he  called  Squareland  and 
Potland.  Excerpts  from  the  remainder 
of  his  address  follow: 

"It's  a  great  pleasure  to  be  with 
you  here  today,  for  I  have  a  personal 
previous    association    with    this   great 


school.  During  World  War  II  a  WPI 
graduate  who  was  a  close  friend  and 
shipmate,  Ben  Phelps,  and  I  spent 
many  lonely  hours  at  night  on  the 
bridge  of  a  submarine  in  the  South- 
west Pacific  discussing  the  problems  of 
the  world,  and  what  we  would  do  after 
the  war  to  improve  things.  Unfortu- 
nately, I  am  the  only  one  of  the  pair 
who  was  able  to  undertake  this.  So  I 
feel  a  special  responsibility  here  today, 
and  would  like  to  dedicate  my  rather 
offbeat  remarks  to  Ben  Phelps  of  the 
Class  of  '41. 

Ben  always  had  a  mischievous 
twinkle  in  his  eye.  He  had  a  tremen- 
dous sense  of  humor,  although  techni- 
cally, he  was  extremely  sharp.  I  think 
Ben's  advice  to  me  in  speaking  to  you 
would  be  'For  goodness  sakes,  don't 
be  pompous.  Don't  talk  platitudes. 
Say  what's  on  your  mind,  and  get  a 
little  humor  into  it.' 

Let  me  therefore  address  myself  to 
what  I  believe  to  be  one  of  the  most 
fascinating  actions  in  the  world  today: 
the  clash  between  two  contemporary 
social  worlds,  which  for  the  sake  of 
discussion  we  can  call  the  war  between 
'Potland'  and  'Squareland'. 

One  antagonist  is  the  world  of 
Squareland  —  the  world  you  were  born 
and  raised  in  —  the  world  your  parents 
live  in.  The  other,  the  world  of  Pot- 
land, is  not  so  easy  to  describe  because 
it  is  shadowy  and  shifting  and  partly 
underground.  Actually,  each  of  these 
lands  is  simply  a  state  of  mind,  a  world 
view.  Everyone  knows  the  established 
leaders  of  Squareland's  government, 
universities,  corporations  and 
churches.  They  are  about  as  lively  as 
their  name  implies:  the  pillars  of  soci- 
ety. By  its  very  nature,  Potland  is 
much  harder  to  describe,  but  for  pur- 
pose of  illumination  I'd  like  you  to 
imagine  that  Potland  has  the  same 
establishment  structure  as  Squareland, 
and  nominate  appropriate  leaders  to 
help  characterize  this  evanescent  new 
world. 

The  Supreme  Court  of  Potland 
would  obviously  consist  not  of  'nine 
old  men'  but  of  seven  swinging  young 


fHE  JOURNAL 


men  —  the  Chicago  Seven.  They  know 
how  to  carry  out  a  judicial  hearing. 
Potland's  Secretary  of  Agriculture  — 
who'd  radically  change  crop  planting 
—  would  be  Dr.  Timothy  Leary.  Then 
Secretary  of  the  Interior  Jane  Fonda's 
chief  concern  would  not  be  making 
the  Indians  comfy  on  Aloatraz,  but 
printing  enough  'Keep  off  the  Grass' 
signs  —  and  you  know  what  Smokey 
the  Bear  would  be  smoking. 

This  hypothetical  leadership  list 
provides  a  short  and  albeit  exaggerated 
description  of  Potland.  Potland  should 
not  be  regarded  as  a  silly  subculture, 
or  a  run-down  hippie  movement,  but 
as  a  full-fledged  nation  operating  in 
the  midst  of  Squareland. 

What  provocations  have  driven 
Potland  into  shrill  battle  with  Squafe- 
land?  Fears  of  cultural  domination  by 
Squareland,  of  economic  reprisal,  even 
of  genocide  are  mentioned.  Potlanders 
regard  the  triumphs  of  Squareland  — 
from  its  unprecedented  economic 
achievement  to  landing  on  the  moon  — 
as  arrogant  assaults  on  its  soul  and 
psyche.  Intolerance  and  bigotry  exist 
on  both  sides.  Disaffection  on  the 
home  front  in  Potland  has  led  to  the 
classical  response  by  its  leaders.  Per- 
haps the  excitement  of  living  by  plun- 
der rather  than  the  hard  discipline  of 
constructive  work  plays  a  part.  Since 
Potland's  economy  is  largely  based  on 
foreign  aid  from  Squareland,  some 
guilt  and  animosity  toward  the  donor 
are  probably  inevitable. 

But  in  my  view,  all  these  explana- 
tions are  simplistic,  and  overlook  the 
most  unforgivable  and  insulting  provo- 
cation of  all  on  the  part  of  Squareland. 
This  provocation  is  now  operating 
against  young  Potlanders  in  all  indus- 
trialized nations  that  have  achieved 
unprecedented  productivity  and 
wealth.  For  Squareland  today  is  ignor- 
ing its  young  people's  dreams  and 
aspirations  and  abilities.  Squareland  is 
clearly  failing  to  provide  a  clear  chal- 
lenge and  opportunity  to  its  young 
men  and  women  to  aspire  to  great 
human  achievement  in  their  vigorous 
youth.  This  is  indeed  unforgivable  — 
neglect  and  boredom  are  the  ultimate 


insult,  the  worst  provocation,  and 
ennui  breeds  revolution.  Squareland 
must  rectify  this,  or  its  young  will 
emigrate  to  Potland  and  peace  will  be 
hard  to  restore. 

Up  to  now  the  principal  impact  of 
the  space  program  has  been  on  Square- 
land.  The  Aerospace  business  has  be- 
come America's  largest  manufacturing 
industry.  It  and  the  computer  industry 
pay  the  world's  highest  wages,  while 
earning  America's  greatest  trade  dol- 
lars overseas.  Few  Americans  realize 
that  the  Aerospace  industry  accounted 
for  200%  of  the  nation's  favorable 
balance  of  payments  for  the  past  two 
years.  Space  age  developments  have 
ushered  in  many  dramatic  advances 
from  low  cost  jet  transportation  to 
global  satellite  communication  and 
weather  observation  systems.  The 
social  effects  are  many:  for  example, 
low  cost  jet  transport  has  led  to  'Se 
habla  espagnol'  signs  all  over  New 
York  City.  Yet  the  greatest  social 
impact  is  still  to  come;  the  space  age 
has  just  begun.  The  new  horizons  that 
have  already  been  opened  in  science 
and  technology,  however,  provide 
Squarelanders  with  increasing  techno- 
logical power  and  intellectual  satisfac- 
tion. Space  developments  will  soon 
give  man  the  capability  to  intelligently 
monitor  and  manage  this  planet's 
entire  biosphere,  better  utilizing  the 
earth's  resources  in  the  best  interest  of 
all  mankind.  Beyond  this  lies  the  more 
distant  but  inevitable  day  when  man 
will  establish  new  colonies  on  other 
worlds,  extending  the  domain  of 
terrestrial  life,  and  initiating  entirely 
new  human  cultures. 

Although  Potlanders  value  some  of 
the  promises  of  space  progress,  such  as 
increasing  international  contacts, 
cleaning  up  the  biosphere,  drastic  re- 
ductions in  transportation  and  com- 
munication costs,  and  increased  leisure 
time,  they  find  little  satisfaction  in  the 
space  program  today.  It  is  just  too 
square  —  too  disciplined  —  too  rational 
for  them.  But  in  the  long  run  space 
advances  will  have  a  major  impact  on 
the  Potlanders.  As  we  press  forward 
with  the  exploration  and  utilization  of 


space,  we  will  open  many  challenging 
new  opportunities  for  young  men  and 
women  in  their  vigorous  youth.  As 
previously  discussed,  this  is  of  supreme 
importance  in  settling  the  war.  I  can- 
not say  that  our  present  cutback  and 
austere  NASA  program  is  providing 
enough  opportunities  today  for  young 
men  and  women.  Many  young  people 
have  already  benefited,  though,  and  an 
expanded  space  effort  could  do  much 
more.  How  could  I  be  satisfied  with 
our  present  status,  when  there  is  an 
excellent  chance  that  soon  I  will  be 
sending  the  first  grandfather  to  land 
on  the  moon?  Just  think  —  an  astro- 
naut grandfather?  He  deserves  to  go  — 
but  so  do  some  of  you  graduating 
today,  and  you  could  and  should  be 
doing  so.  Some  of  you  will  go,  and 
long  before  you're  grandfathers,  too,  if 
America  maintains  its  momentum  in 
space  and  we  build  the  space  stations 
and  rocket  plane  shuttles  in  the  1970's 
that  we  now  plan. 

How  will  the  war  (between  Square- 
land  and  Potland)  end?  Since  the 
Squarelanders  are  in  general  of  the 
older  generation,  it  is  clear  that  the 
younger  Potlanders  have  an  ultimate 
weapon  —  the  biological  time  bomb. 
You  will  win  out  as  the  older  genera- 
tion eventually  retires.  But  what  a 
hollow  victory  it  will  be!  Suddenly  a 
new  generation  will  appear  in  the 
universities  whom  the  Class  of  1970 
cannot  understand. 

But  now,  for  the  first  time  in 
history,  there  is  a  new  force  that  can 
act  in  your  favor.  The  space  age  is 
really  moving.  It  partly  originated 
right  here  on  this  campus  with  Robert 
Goddard.  And  it  will  indeed  open 
swinging  and  challenging  opportunities 
at  an  unprecedented  rate  to  captivate 
bright  and  searching  young  minds.  It 
can  give  them  fascinating  pioneering 
jobs  worthy  of  their  mettle.  This  is 
true  both  in  space  and  in  many  other 
fields.  The  message  we  have  brought 
back  from  the  moon  is  that  America 
can  accomplish  whatever  it  resolves  to 
do.  Apollo  must  embolden  us  to  tackle 
our  other  problems  with  equal  confi- 
dence and  energy. 


10 


THE  JOURNAL 


But  don't  ever  try  to  completely 
eliminate  the  Squareland-Potland  war 
from  the  human  scene.  You  can't,  and 
anyway,  this  continuing  uproar  is  the 
essence  of  our  richly  diversified  human 
scene  in  the  reasonably  United  States 
of  America." 

Four  honorary  degrees  were  con- 
ferred by  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32, 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees. 
Recipients  of  Honorary  Doctor  of 
Engineering  degrees  were  Dr.  Paine, 
the  Commencement  speaker  and  Dr. 
Elmer  W.  Engstrom,  Chairman  of  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  Board  of 
Radio  Corporation  of  America.  Dr. 
Elizabeth  A.  Wood,  a  specialist  in 
crystals  at  Bell  Laboratories,  and  Dr. 
Russell  E.  Train,  Chairman  of  the 
Nixon  Administration's  Council  of  En- 
vironmental Quality  received  Honor- 
ary Doctor  of  Science  degrees.  Follow- 
ing the  Honorary  degrees,  Dr.  Hanson 
presented  certificates  to  the  School  of 
Industrial  Management. 

President  Hazzard,  with  the  heads 
of  the  degree-granting  departments, 
next  presented  Bachelor  of  Science 
degrees  to  265  undergraduates  and 
Master  of  Science  degrees  to  50  candi- 
dates. The  highest  academic  degree. 
Doctor  of  Philosophy,  was  awarded  to 
nine  candidates. 

Next  on  the  program  was  President 
Hazzard's  first  message  to  a  graduating 
class.  He  said: 

"It  has  been  traditional  atWPI  for 
the  President  to  make  a  few  parting 
and  exhorting  remarks  to  the  seniors. 
Today,  for  the  first  time,  I  shall  try 
my  hand  at  it  but  I  wish  to  enlarge  the 
group  of  addressees  to  include  parents. 
For  together  we  at  WPI  and  your 
parents  at  home  have  helped  you 
seniors  become  the  educated  people 
you  are  at  this  moment.  Together,  we 
as  parents  and  as  a  college  have  tried 
our  best  to  fulfill  our  responsibilities, 
to  offer  the  opportunities  for  educa- 
tion and  the  students  to  make  full 
utilization  of  these  opportunities.  And 
now  what? 

I  offer  you  two  responsibilities 
with  the  fervent  hope  that  you  are 
successful  in  happily  combining  them. 


These  two  are  the  responsibility  for 
full  professional  use  of  your  education 
in  serving  society  and  the  responsi- 
bility of  being  fully  a  citizen  in  a 
democratic  but  complicated  country. 
In  both  cases  I  hope  the  high  ethical 
standards  of  engineers  and  scientists 
will  apply. 

In  this  particular  instant  of  history 
it  requires  a  steady  hand  and  head  to 
combine  these  two  responsibilities 
effectively  and  constructively.  You 
have  done  so  here  as  students,  a  fact  of 
which  all  of  us  are  proud.  Now  I 
specially  ask  you  and  your  parents  not 
to  lose  sight  of  that  second  responsi- 
bility of  being  a  fully  participative 
citizen.  How  our  country's  leaders, 
executive  and  congressional,  proceed 
will  depend  in  great  measure  on  the 
thoughtful  input  from  each  of  you. 
Your  efforts  in  written  expression,  in 
support  of  your  political  candidates,  in 
conversation  with  friends  and  ac- 
quaintances will  provide  the  weight  of 
evidence  leading  to  action  —  to  ending 


the  war  in  Southeast  Asia,  to  ending 
racial  discrimination  at  home,  to  grap- 
pling honestly  with  environmental 
problems  to  a  rational  balance  be- 
tween space  and  earth,  to  a  livable 
world. 

In  the  tradition  of  the  university 
and  a  democratic  society,  respecting 
the  rights  of  each  person,  all  of  us 
must  exercise  our  best  efforts  as 
scientist  and  citizen  in  cooperative 
efforts  toward  achieving  a  future  of 
which  we  can  be  proud.  A  challenging 
goal,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  for  the 
graduates  of  WPI." 

Upon  completion  of  the  Presi- 
dent's message.  Rev.  Scanlon  offered 
the  Benediction.  Another  group  of 
talented  individuals,  the  102nd  of  its 
kind,  had  joined  the  ranks  of  alumni, 
and  as  the  sun  appeared  for  the  first 
time  during  the  long  weekend  the 
traditional  reception  and  picture- 
taking  began  on  the  quadrangle  as 
another  successful  Commencement 
ended. 


Harrington  Auditorium  on  Commencement  Day. 


THE  JOURNAL 


11 


A  happy  graduate  with  an  engineer's  cap  following  graduation. 


12 


THE  JOURNAL 


Chandler  W.  Jones,  '26,  receives  Herbert 
F.  Taylor  A  ward  from  A  lumni  President, 
Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40. 


Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45,  receives  Robert 
H.  Goddard  A  ward  from  Dr.  William 
E.  Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees. 


Walter  L.  Abel,  '39,  receives  Robert 
H.  Goddard  Award  From  Dr.  William 
E.  Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees. 


Honorary 

degree  recipients 

in  1970  are  pictured 

with  President  Hazzard. 

From  left, 

Elmer  W.  Engstrom, 

Elizabeth  A.  Wood, 

Dr.  Hazzard, 

Thomas  O.  Paine, 

and  Russell  E.  Train. 


THE  JOURNAL 


13 


Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68, 
receives  his  MS  degree 
in  civil  engineering 
from  Dr.  Hazzard. 


"Me  in  1990.  Daddy?' 


14 


THE  JOURNAL 


ED  DELANO,  '30 : 

CALIFORNIA  TRAVELER 


It's  not  often  that  any  college  or 
university  gets  much  publicity  from 
any  of  its  reunion-connected  activities. 
In  fact,  it's  seldom  that  reunion 
activities  receive  any  public  notice. 
Furthermore,  very  few  people  from 
anywhere  are  physically  capable  of 
performing  such  a  feat. 

Returning  to  his  alma  mater  for 
the  first  time  in  forty  years,  Edward 
R.  Delano,  '30,  not  only  did  it  the 
hard  way  but  he  did  it  the  long  way. 
Taking  five  weeks  plus  one-half  of  a 
day  to  cover  the  3,150  miles  from  his 
home  in  Red  Bluff,  Calif,  to 
Worcester,  Ed  rode  a  bicycle  all  the 
way!  And  in  his  travels  he  not  only 
received  much  publicity  —  and  raised 
eyebrows  —  for  himself,  but  also  a 
large  amount  of  publicity  for  his 
college. 

A  grandfather  seventeen  times  and 
in  exceptional  physical  condition  for  a 
man  of  65  years,  Ed  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1930  with  a  BS  degree  in  civil 
engineering.  He  retired  from  the  State 
of  California's  Division  of  Highways 
during  the  winter  of  1970  after  37 
years'  service.  At  the  time  of  his 
retirement  he  was  superintendent  of 
highway  maintenance. 

An  experienced  cyclist,  Mr.  Delano 
is  a  member  of  the  Northern  California 
Cycling  Association.  He  rode  while 
attending  WPI,  but  he  did  not  resume 
the  sport  until  1963  when  he  joined 
the  Amateur  Bicycle  League  of 
America  with  his  son.  He  is  the 
California  state  champion,  having  won 
the  title  three  consecutive  years.  The 
title  is  based  on  time  trial  events  and 
participants  receive  a  handicap  based 
on  age.  Last  summer,  as  a  prelim  to  his 
cross-country  trip,  he  made  a  trip  from 
California  to  Missouri,  averaging  about 
100  miles  a  day. 

With  an  enthusiasm  typical  of  a 
much  younger  person,  Ed  recounted 
some  of  the  highlights  of  his  trip  after 


he  arrived  in  Worcester.  He  told  stories 
of  riding  in  good  weather  and  in  bad 
weather;  in  sunshine  and  in  snow;  of 
keeping  a  look-out  for  dogs,  and 
sometimes  having  to  outrun  them;  of 
having  to  walk  his  bicycle  up  only  two 
hills  during  the  entire  trip  (both  in  the 
state  of  New  York);  of  being  ready  to 
"hit  the  road"  at  dawn  every  morning; 
and  of  meeting  a  countless  number  of 
people  along  the  way,  many  of  whom 


offered  him  assistance. 

On  Sunday,  June  7,  Ed  Delano 
boarded  a  plane  in  Boston  for  the 
return  trip  to  California.  With  him', 
neatly  packed,  was  his  Italian-built 
bicycle  that  weighs  only  26  pounds, 
has  15  speeds,  and  costs  over  $300. 
And  thus  Ed  Delano  returned  home, 
having  added  another  outstanding 
accomplishment  to  his  career  —  and 
ready  to  plan  his  next  trip. 


Ed  Delano,  '30,  is  greeted  by  Warren  Zepp,  '42,  and  Carl  Backstrom,  '30,  along  with  some  of 
the  brothers  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 


THE  JOURNAL 


15 


VAN  DE  VISSE  ACCEPTS 
NEW  POSITION 

Dean  Martin  C.  Van  de  Visse  ha.s 
accepted  a  position  as  Dean  of  Stu- 
dents at  Hiram  College  in  Hiram,  Ohio, 
effective  in  July,  1970.  He  has  been 
Dean  of  Student  Affairs  at  WPI  since 
1964. 

Hiram  College  is  a  co-educational, 
liberal  arts  college  with  an  enrollment 
of  1,100  undergraduates.  In  his  new 
position.  Dean  Van  de  Visse  will  be 
responsible  for  all  student  activities,  a 
counseling  program,  and  the  residence 
halls,  and  will  have  some  involvement 
with  their  admissions  program.  He  will 
have  two  assistant  deans  on  his  staff, 
plus  a  residence  hall  director,  campus 
center  director,  and  four  psycholo- 
gists. He  will  also  be  an  instructor  of 
one  course  each  semester. 

ADMISSIONS  OFFICE  CHANGES 
Elliott  Leaves 

William  F.  Elliott,  '66,  Assistant 
Director  of  Admissions  at  WPI  since 
1966,  has  left  WPI  to  accept  a  position 
as  Associate  Director  of  Admissions  at 
Carnegie  Mellon  University  in  Pitts- 
burgh, Pa. 

A  graduate  of  WPI  in  1966  with  a 
BS  degree  in  mechanical  engineering, 
he  received  a  master's  degree  in  guid- 
ance and  counseling  from  Clark  Uni- 
versity in  June,  1970.  He  plans  to 
begin  a  program  leading  to  a  doctorate 
degree  at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh. 

In  his  new  position  he  will  be  the 


primary  admissions  man  for  the 
Carnegie  Institute  of  Technology 
School  of  the  University. 

Kievit  Joins  Staff 

Donald  J.  Kievit,  Jr.,  has  joined 
the  Admissions  Office  staff  as  Assist- 
ant Director  of  Admissions. 

A  graduate  of  West  Point  Academy 
in  1964,  he  has  been  a  member  of  the 
Armed  Forces  since  then.  He  has 
served  in  Vietnam,  attended  Airborne 
and  Ranger  Schools,  and  since  1968 
has  been  a  member  of  the  Military 
Science  Dept.  at  WPI.  At  the  time  of 
his  retirement  he  held  the  rank  of 
Captain. 

Estabrook  Heads  A.S.S.O. 

E.  Penn  Estabrook,  Assistant 
Director  of  Admissions,  has  been 
named  to  coordinate  the  Alumni 
Secondary  School  Organization.  This 
program,  which  was  formerly  coordi- 
nated by  Bill  Elliott,  is  designed  to 
involve  alumni  in  the  promotion  of 
WPI  among  high  school  students. 
About  250  alumni  are  presently  in- 
volved in  thirteen  regions  which  ex- 
tend southward  to  Washington,  D.C., 
and  westward  to  Chicago,  III. 

Estabrook,  who  joined  the  WPI 
staff  in  August,  1969,  after  serving  in 
the  Army  for  three  years,  is  a  1966 
graduate  of  Clark  University. 

YEARBOOK  DEDICATED 

The  1970  edition  of  The  Peddler 
has  been  dedicated  to  Prof.   Kenneth 


E.  Scott,  '48.  A  member  of  the  Me- 
chanical Engineering  Dept.,  he  has 
been  at  WPI  since  he  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1948.  He  received  an  MS 
degree  from  WPI  in  1954. 

The  dedication  read:  "Occasion- 
ally a  faculty  member  lifts  himself 
above  everyday  routine.  He  becomes 
involved  with  the  student  beyond  the 
standard  mechanics  of  the  classroom. 
His  main  concern  becomes  that  of  the 
student's  overall  welfare  with  a  deep 
concern  for  his  future.  It  is  such  a 
teacher  to  whom  we  dedicate  the  1970 
PEDDLER.  .  .  Professor  Kenneth  E. 
Scott." 

TECHNIQUEST 

The  32nd  Annual  Techniquest  pro- 
gram was  held  on  the  campus  from 
June  21  through  June  27.  Seventy-five 
high  school  students  were  in  attend- 
ance, including  one  female,  and  they 
represented  14  states,  plus  Puerto 
Rico,  and  included  one  student  from 
Arizona.  The  academic  portion,  de- 
signed to  aid  a  high  school  student  in 
his  selection  of  a  field  of  study  in 
college,  was  coordinated  by  Dr.  Ray- 
mond R.  Hagglund,  '56,  and  was  based 
for  the  first  time  on  the  project 
approach  to  learning.  From  all  reports, 
it  was  extremely  well  received.  The 
program  was  coordinated  by  Dean 
William  F.  Trask. 


16 


THE  JOURNAL 


CLASS  OF  1974 

In  a  year  when  several  private 
colleges  fell  short  of  their  projected 
class  size  for  incoming  freshmen,  WPI 
has  met  its  goal.  Next  year's  freshman 
class  will  total  about  545  students. 
Included  in  this  total  will  be  24  coeds, 
bringing  the  number  of  coeds  on 
campus  in  the  fall  to  a  total  of  47. 
There  will  be  nine  black  students  in 
the  class,  including  three  girls. 

The  geographical  distribution  will 
include  representatives  from  29  states 
and  seven  foreign  countries,  and  there 
will  be  27  sons  of  alumni,  22  grand- 
sons of  alumni,  and  one  granddaughter 
of  an  alumnus. 

UNDEFEATED  FOOTBALL  TEAMS 

The  Poly  Club  and  Athletic  Dept. 
have  planned  a  reunion  for  October  9 
and  10  for  the  only  two  undefeated 
football  teams  in  the  history  of  the 
college.  Invited  to  return  to  WPI  for 
the  special  festivities  will  be  the  un- 
defeated teams  of  1938  and  1954, 
who  had  identical  6-0  records.  Plans 
include  a  social  hour  and  dinner  party 
on  Friday  evening,  October  9,  and  a 
football  game  on  Saturday,  October 
10. 

"I  am  hopeful  that  all  the  living 
members  of  these  two  great  teams  will 
be  able  to  return  the  weekend  of 
October  9  and  10,"  said  Athletic 
Director  Bob  Pritchard.  "It  should  be 
a  fun  weekend  for  everyone,  renewing 
old  friendships  and  recalling  the  great 
plays  that  almost  made  some  squad 
members  All-Americans.  It  should  be  a 
great  time." 

The  1938  team  was  lead  by  Cap- 
tain Carl  Lewin,  '39,  and  the  1954 
team  was  led  by  Co-captains  Pete 
Horstmann,  '55,  and  Ed  Bouvier,  '55. 

NEW  DORM  IN  PLANNING  STAGE 

With  the  need  for  additional  un- 
dergraduate housing  a  constant  prob- 
lem, WPI  has  undertaken  initial  steps 
to  find  a  solution.  A  committee  of 
undergraduates  and  faculty  members 
have    been    studying    during    recent 


months  the  needs  and  desires  of  stu- 
dents regarding  residence  facilities. 
Based  on  the  studies,  preliminary  plans 
have  been  drawn  up  and  recently 
preliminary  application  was  made  by 
the  college  to  the  Federal  Housing  and 
Urban  Development  Dept.  (HUD)  for 
funds  to  undertake  such  a  project. 

WICNON  AIR 

The  college  FM  radio  station, 
WICN,  has  continued  to  be  on  the  air 
during  the  summer  vacation  months. 
The  station,  broadcasting  at  90.5  on 
the  FM  dial,  is  jointly  operated  and 
managed  by  students  from  WPI  and 
Holy  Cross  with  transmitting  facilities 
in  Alden  Memorial. 

The  station  has  operated  during 
the  summer  months  on  a  limited  basis. 
In  the  faH  they  intend  to  expand  their 
programming,  which  is  basically  educa- 
tional, to  include  more  classical  music 
and  possibly  football  game  coverage. 
The  station,  which  can  be  received 
throughout  Worcester  County  and 
beyond,  can  broadcast  stereo  pro- 
grams, and  they  welcome  comments 
from  alumni  and  listeners. 

DEAN  OF 
STUDENT  AFFAIRS  NAMED 

Donald  P.  Reutlinger,  38,  of  New 
Salem,  Mass.,  has  been  appointed  dean 
of  student  affairs.  He  had  been  dean  of 
students  at  the  Rhode  Island  School  of 
Design  and  earlier  taught  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  where  he  was 
active  in  student  affairs. 

Dean  Reutlinger  was  graduated 
cum  laude  from  Princeton  University 
in  1954  with  a  major  in  English.  He 
studied  at  the  University  of  Paris  and 
in  1964  received  his  master  of  arts 
degree  in  English  at  Harvard. 

A  year  ago,  he  was  a  consultant  in 
curriculum  revision  at  the  Swain 
School  of  Design,  New  Bedford,  where 
he  delivered  the  commencement 
address  in  1969.  At  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  he  was  an  instructor  in 
English  from  1965  to  1967,  serving 
also  as  research  consultant.  University 
Study   of   Student   Culture,  with  the 


We  welcome 
your  comments 

and  ideas 
concerning  the 

publication 
of  the  Journal. 


Dean  of  Students  Office.  While  at 
Harvard,  from  1958  to  1965,  he  was  a 
teaching  fellow  and  teaching  assistant 
in  General  Education,  counselor  in  the 
Bureau  of  Study  Counsel,  and  for 
three  years,  assistant  dean  of  fresh- 
men. 

He  is  married  and  has  a  six-year- 
old  daughter. 


Dean  Reutlinger 


THE  JOURNAL 


17 


REORGANIZATION  APPROVED 


The  administrative  reorganization  of  the  Alumni  Associ- 
ation, which  has  been  discussed,  debated,  and  drafted 
during  recent  months,  primarily  by  a  committee  headed  by 
Bradley  E.  Hosmer,  '61,  was  given  unanimous  approval  by 
the  Alumni  Council  on  June  5,  1970  and  by  the  Alumni 
Association  at  its  Annual  Meeting  on  June  6,  1970.  The 
reorganization  move  had  been  strongly  backed  by  the 
college  administration,  headed  by  President  George  W. 
Hazzard  and  Vice  President  —  University  Relations,  Olavi 
H.  Halttunen,  '45. 

The  reorganization  vote  approved  the  Plan  subject  to 
final  revisions  of  the  Constitution  and  By-Laws.  From  the 
preamble  to  the  Recommendations,  the  reorganization  is 
"to  obtain  a  more  closely  knit  but  independent  Alumni 
Organization  to  work  in  full  harmony  with  the  (College) 
Administration  for  the  betterment  of  WPI".  In  the  past  the 
Alumni  Association  has  been  a  separate  organization  and 
while  all  of  its  activities  have  been  for  the  College,  it  has 
not  actually  been  a  part  of  the  College.  Now  it  becomes 
actively  integrated  into  the  College  structure  with  common 
goals  and  budgetary  planning. 

Some  of  the  key  points  to  the  reorganization  are: 

The  Alumni  Secretary,  Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42  will  report 
to  WPI's  Vice  President  —  University  Relations,  Olavi  H. 
Halttunen,  '45  for  administrative  purposes.  The  Alumni 
Secretary  will  continue  to  be  elected  by  the  Alumni 
Council,  but  now  the  selection  will  be  based  on  the 
recommendations  of  both  the  Alumni  and  the  College. 
Four  meetings  of  the  Alumni  Executive  Committee  and 
members  of  WPI's  staff  have  been  scheduled  annually  for 
the  discussion  of  "matters  of  mutual  concern." 

Annual  alumni  fund  raising  is  now  the  responsibility  of 


the  WPI  Development  office.  The  Alumni  Fund  Board  will 
continue  to  share  the  responsibility  for  the  over-all  methods 
of  individual  solicitation.  In  line  with  this,  all  fund  raising 
records  are  being  consolidated  into  one  office  to  facilitate 
operations  and  the  College  will  now  bear  the  expense  of 
developing  and  maintaining  the  record  system. 

Beginning  with  the  Fall,  1970  edition  of  the  Journal,  a 
full-time  publications  specialist  will  write  and  edit  the 
magazine.  The  Alumni  Secretary,  however,  will  maintain 
editorial  control  over  each  issue.  Thus  the  Alumni  Office 
will  now  be  relieved  of  the  task  of  preparing  the  copy  for 
each  issue. 

The  Association  will  form  working  committees  to  meet 
with  members  of  the  WPI  community  to  work  on  programs 
of  mutual  interest.  Possible  committee  assignments  exist  in 
the  areas  of  student  recruiting,  undergraduate  affairs, 
athletics,  library  development,  corporate  relations,  place- 
ment, trustee  selection,  publications  and  curriculum  devel- 
opment. 

The  last  item  of  the  approved  recommendations  states, 
"Should  a  conflict  between  these  recommendations  and  the 
current  By-Laws  and  Constitution  exist,  the  recommenda- 
tions will  take  precedence  for  a  period  not  to  exceed  one 
year  from  the  date  of  adoption  of  this  amendment,  by 
which  time  the  necessary  By-Laws  and  Constitution 
changes,  to  remove  conflicts,  will  be  presented  for  possible 
Alumni  Association  approval." 

The  recommendations  as  approved  are  simply  a  means 
to  an  end.  They  are  designed  to  promote  better  working 
relations  between  and  amongst  the  College  and  its  alumni. 
With  this  reorganization  the  Alumni  will  be  better  able  to 
help  the  College  meet  its  educational  objectives. 


"MISSING"  ALUMNI  - 
CAN  YOU  HELP? 


The  records  of  the  Alumni  Association  are  incomplete  for  the  individuals  listed  at  right,  and  in  particular, 
we  have  no  mailing  addresses  for  them.  If  you  have  any  information  about  these  people,  or  know  how 
information  may  be  obtained,  kindly  contact  the  Alumni  Office,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


THE  JOURNAL 


Frederic  H.  Leland  1895 

Edward  L.  Cullen  1896 

Charles  V.  Walter  1896 

Edward  G.  Beckwith  1897 

Roy  G.  Lewis  1900 

Harry  W.  F.  Dunklee  1901 

Winfred  M.  Adams  1902 

Chester  A.  Bacon  1903 

i  Herbert  W.  Tufts  1903 

]  Elipidio  De  L.  Wernek  1903 

Manuel  G.  Rosado  1905 

Clarence  G.  Derick  1906 

Ralph  S.  Forsstedt  1906 

Walter  P.  Ingham  1906 

i  George  G.  Whitney  1907 

Elliott  A.  Allen  1908 

James  G.  Goodell  1910 

Alvan  L.  Grout  1910 

Stephen  M.  Poutier  1910 

James  F.  Thompson  1910 

Ralph  H.  Bowers  1911 

Arvid  I.  Peterson  1911 

William  I.  Randall  1911 

TEtoyal  B.  Libby  1912 

Robert  W.  Mungall  1912 

Stanley  M.  Gunn  1913 

Charles  O.  Snow  1913 

Edward  H.  Vance  1913 

Harry  D.  Stephens  1914 

Arthur  L.  Thurston  1914 

Leon  W.  Dunbar  1916 

Thomas  W.  Famsworth  1916 

Gilbert  M.  Ireland  1916 
Joaquim  De  R.  Junqueira        1916 

Raymond  H.  Page  1916 

Herbert  C.  Kelly  1917 

Walter  I.  Steams  1917 

Edward  L.  Anton  1918 

Frank  J.  Murphy  1918 

Robert  H.  Taylor  1918 

Conant  L.  Starr  1919 

Walter  Smith  1920 

Harold  S.  Wood-ward  1920 

George  A.  Bijur  1921 

Forest  M.  Douglass,  Jr.  1921 

Milton  W.  Graff  1921 

Charles  A.  Morse  1921 

Joseph  F.  Scanlan  1921 

Joseph  T.  Fanning  1922 

Francis  W.  Hamey  1922 

Charles  E.  Martin  1922 

Harold  H.  Judson  1923 

Richard  F.  Whitcomb  1924 

Tzu-Hzu  Chou  1925 

Charles  E.  Crang  1925 

John  J.  Hynes  1925 

Charles  F.  Stevens  1925 

Carl  H.  Nordstrom  1926 

Bradford  M.  Bowker  1927 

George  C.  Chow  1927 

YatW.  Chow  1927 

Gordon  N.  McCoUey  1928 

Leo  J.  Melican  1928 

Harold  L.  Partridge  1928 

Edward  T.  Fox,  Jr.  1930 

Francis  O.  Carlstrom  1931 
Monmatha  N.  Chakrabarty      1931 

Lewis  S.  Haskins  1931 

Arthur  B.  Brainerd,  Jr.  1932 

:  Edward  F.  Donohue  1932 

I  Paul  R.  Olson  1932 

George  E.  Oman  1932 

I  Ellis  R.  Brown  1933 

Stephen  S.  Haynes  1933 

Charles  H.  Newsome  1933 

Thomas  F.  McLoughlin  1933 


Richard  L.  Goodwin 
William  A.  Michalek 
Raymond  G.  Desrochers 
Alvaro  A.  Suva 
Louis  D.  Soloway 
Russell  H.  Wood 
William  F.  Atwood,  Jr. 
Joseph  R.  Hastings 
Thomas  J.  Healey,  Jr. 
William  Miseveth 
John  H.  Wyman 
John  H.  Chapman 
Frank  Ellsworth 
Arthur  A.  Davis 
Samuel  A.  A.  Aaron 
E.  Bruce  Crabtree 
Irving  W.  Forde 
Laurence  M.  Howarth 
Raymond  B.  Piper 
Charles  S.  Stevens 
Howard  L.  Anderson 
Lennart  Brune 
Bernard  Polonsky 
Judson  D.  Lowd 
Harry  E.  Stirling 
Alfred  F.  Andersen 
Burgess  P.  Brownson 
Graham  T.  Douglass 
Milton  B.  Lemeshka 
Jerome  E.  Schread 
George  F.  Taylor 
Chamron  Tishyanandana 
George  C.  Andreopoulos 
Frederick  J.  Bargiel 
Morris  C.  Chu 
David  L.  Hartwell 
Kenneth  T.  Hunt 
Kelvin  H.  Kiely 
William  S.  Allan,  Jr. 
Everett  W.  Dunlap 
Harold  E.  O'Malley 
Marshall  B.  Raybin 
Dr.  George  P.  Scott 
Louis  J.  Baldini 
Harold  A.  Krieger 
Robert  H.  Maass 
Peter  E.  Talley 
Donald  M.  Campbell 
Clifford  E.  Lanigan 
Robert  W.  Lewis 
Leonard  F.  Moore 
Harry  W.  Sandberg 
James  Taylor,  III 
Alvi  T.  Twing,  Jr. 
Philip  S.  Adams 
Gaetano  Biuso 
John  M.  Considine 
Wilton  A.  Ericson 
Robert  S.  Gamble 
Dr.  Karl  M.  Mayer 
Cecil  A.  McCurry 
Alvin  M.  Ross 
Edward  Stokel 
Miczyslaw  J.  Waclawek 
Robert  N.  Hamilton 
Walter  H.  Hatch 
Christopher  A.  Herbert 
William  J.  Kelly 
Philip  R.  Loshin 
Allan  W.  McCoy 
Elton  K.  Morice,  Jr. 
A.  Lewis  Rogers,  Jr. 
Sidney  S.  Sperling 
George  C.  Fritz 
Irwin  G.  Benkert 
Dr.  Myer  Krulfeld 


1934 

Thomas  M.  McCaw 

1946D 

1934 

Jose  R.  Biamon 

1947 

1935 

August  L.  Flotteron,  Jr. 

1947 

1935 

Roland  H.  Guay 

1947 

1935 

Ernest  E.  Kimball 

1947 

1935 

William  Longmuir 

1947 

1936 

Vaikunth  C.  Thakar 

1947 

1936 

Benjamin  B.  Barker,  Jr. 

1948 

1936 

David  I.  Caplan 

1948 

1936 

Charles  A.  Heyelman 

1948 

1936 

Julian  H.  Jacobs 

1948 

1937 

Birger  D.  Lund,  Jr. 

1948 

1937 

William  T.  Nurney 

1948 

1938 

William  R.  Olha 

1948 

1939 

Shou  L.  P,an 

1948 

1939 

Leonard  D.  Rood 

1948 

1939 

Kinsley  A.  Ball,  Jr. 

1949 

1939 

Russell  P.  Bradlaw 

1949 

1939 

Edward  Foley 

1949 

1939 

Elmer  R.  Griffith,  Jr. 

1949 

1940 

Frederick  S.  Jenkins,  Jr. 

1949 

1940 

Tsu-Yen  Mei 

1949 

1940 

William  H.-  B.  Parr 

1949 

1940 

Harry  J.  Rogers 

1949 

1940 

Vernon  H.  Russell 

1949 

1941 

John  A.  Snyder 

1949 

1941 

Philip  L.  Barbaccia 

1950 

1941 

Fred  A.  Carmody 

1950 

1941 

William  G.  Collings 

1950 

1941 

Frank  J.  Demarco,  Jr. 

1950 

1941 

Morey  L.  Hodgman 

1950 

1941 

John  M.  Percival 

1950 

1942 

George  M.  Cooley 

1951 

1942 

Ellsworth  R.  Cramer 

1951 

1942 

Leon  Hoogasian 

1951 

1942 

Mehmet  R.  Ozbas 

1951 

1942 

Ratanshaw  K.  Patel 

1951 

1942 

Mustafa  T.  Sonmez 

1951 

1943 

Bernard  G.  Ziobrowski 

1951 

1943 

Jack  Y.  T.  Kwan 

1952 

1943 

Robert  R.  Nuttall 

1952 

1943 

Lysle  P.  Parlett 

1952 

1943 

Bernard  J.  Petrillo 

1952 

1944 

Karl  H.  Bissell,  Jr. 

1953 

1944 

Martin  R.  Cohen 

1953 

1944 

Ernest  E.  Demar 

1953 

1944 

Hugh  R.  McLoughlin 

1953 

1945 

Nasuh  M.  Malas 

1953 

1945 

David  C.  Morrison 

1953 

1945 

Harold  G.  Rackett 

1953 

1945 

Philip  R.  Randall 

1953 

1945 

Dr.  Wu  Mei  Yao 

1953 

1945 

Paul  G.  Granfors 

1954 

1945 

Framrose  M.  Karani 

1954 

1946 

James  F.  King 

1954 

1946 

Haralambos  N.  Kritikos 

1954 

1946 

Jack  K.  Mackowiak 

1954 

1946 

Malcolm  G.  McLeod 

1954 

1946 

Harold  Lake 

1954 

1946 

James  E.  Clampett 

1955 

1946 

Markar  A.  D.  Markarian 

1955 

1946 

Robert  D.  Morgan 

1955 

1946 

Martin  A.  Rafferty 

1955 

1946 

Edwin  J.  Leonard 

1956 

1946B 

Juozas  Orentas 

1956 

1946B 

Herbert  P.  Schoeck,  Jr. 

1956 

1946B 

Robert  C.  Skelton 

1956 

1946B 

Thomas  E.  Weber 

1956 

1946B 

Santo  M.  Bramande 

1957 

1946B 

Edward  M.  Dennett,  Jr. 

1957 

1946B 

Robert  D.  Tent 

1957 

1946B 

Benjamin  G.  Uy 

1957 

1946B 

Roger  R.  Billings 

1958 

1946C 

Frank  K.  Lind 

1958 

1946D 

Richard  E.  Lorenz 

1958 

1946D 

Nicholas  S.  Petralias 

1958 

William  A.  Rabinovitch  1958 

Frank  A.  Seidel  1958 

John  A.  Beede  1959 

Clifford  H.  Daw,  Jr.  1959 

Robert  W.  Milik,  Jr.  1959 

George  J.  Nelson  1959 

Henry  W.  Brandt  I960 

Arthur  D.  Brook  1960 

John  S.  O'Connell,  Jr.  1960 

Gungor  Dagistanli  1960 

Kenneth  Roberts  1960 

Peter  H.  Schneider  1960 

Maung  T.  Swe  1960 

Derin  K.  Turkomer  1960 

Harold  W.  Berk  1961 

Kayhan  Boro  1961 

Terry  W.  Donovan  1961 

Suat  Gonen  1961 

James  Kachadorian  1961 

John  W.  Kappel  1961 

Maung  T.  Maung  1961 
Dr.  Timothy  C.  Meyers,  Jr.     1961 

SvendE.  Pelch  1961 
Gordon  B.  Phillips             SIM1961 

Husein  Y.  Pothiawala  1961 

Donald  E.  Schaaf  1961 

Donald  W.  Wilmot  1961 

Maung  N.  Win  1961 

Haines  J.  Boyle  1962 

Mehmet  I.  Can  1962 

Louis  C.  S.  Fernandes  1962 

Stuart  C.  Gillow  1962 

Jay  P.  Hochstaine  1962 

R.  Michael  Leistritz  1962 

Robert  G.  McDonald  1962 

William  H.  C.  Reinert  1962 

Basat  H.  Tilkicioglu  1962 

Paul  Y.Chan  1963 

Leslie  J.  Hart  1963 

Herbert  W.  Head  1963 

William  P.  Morrison  1963 

Pundalik  U.  Prabhu  1963 

Gordon  O.  Stearns  1963 

Stanley  J.  Andrysiak  1964 
Krishnakumar  V.  Chaudhary  1964 

John  Gowen  1964 

Paul  A.  Vajcovec  1964 

Sunil  M.  Mehta  1965 

George  W.  Mitschang  1965 

Arthur  A.  Padovano  1965 

Venkatesh  B.  N.  Rao  1965 

Ali  H.  Ustay  1965 

Satish  H.  Bhatt  1966 

Roberto  Huyke-Luigi  1966 

Ahmet  G.  Kozanoglu  1966 

William  S.  Pete  1966 

Charles  C.  Roberts,  Jr.  1966 

Robert  J.  Cornell  1967 

Mahendra  K.  Dave  1967 

Richard  C.  Graham  1967 

Mohmedjarid  M.  Malek  1967 

David  R.  Malley  1967 

John  B.  Nano  1967 

Mafatbhai  N.  Patel  1967 

George  W.  Pomfret  1967 

Carl  R.  Schenker  1967 

Vishram  S.  Shinde  1967 

Francis  J.  Posselt,  Jr.  1968 

Malay  C.  Sheth  1968 

Donald  R.  Shurtleff  1968 

JasP.  Singh  1968 

Huseini  T.  Tambawala  1968 

Raj  K.  Chauhan  1969 

Harivadan  R.  Parikh  1969 

Rambhai  J.  Patel  1969 

Shashikant  M.  Patel  1969 


THE  JOURNAL 


19 


HOMECOMING  1970 


9:30-11:30 

10:00-11:30 

11:00 

11:45-1:00 

2:00 


REGISTRATION 

COFFEE  HOUR 

SOCCER/COAST  GUARD 

TAILGATE  PICNIC  &  BARBEQUE 

FOOTBALL/COAST  GUARD 


4:3D  REFRESHMENTS  IN  MORGAN  HALL 

4:30-6:00  REUNION— CLASSES  OF  1954-195B 
6:00  BUFFET  DINNERS  IN  FRATERNITIES 

Watch  for  something  special  for  the  Class  of  1970 


FALL  ATHLETIC  SCHEDULES 

VARSITY  FOOTBALL 

FRESHMAN  SOCCER 

Sept. 

Oct. 

19 

Union 

Away 

1:30  P.M. 

15 

Univ.  of  Mass. 

Away 

3:30  P.M. 

26 

Bowdoin 

Home 

2:00  P.M. 

22 

Dean  Jr. 

Home 

3:30  P.M. 

Oct. 

28 

Worcester  Acad. 

Home 

3:00  P.M. 

3 

Middlebury 

Away 

2:00  P.M. 

31 

Leicester  Jr.  Col. 

Away 

1:30  P.M. 

10 

Bates 

Home 

2:00  P.M. 

17 

Wesleyan 

Away 

1:30  P.M. 

VARSITY  CROSS  COUNTRY 

24 

Coast  Guard 

Home 

2:00  P.M. 

Sept. 

31 

R.P.I. 

Away 

1:30  P.M. 

30 

Wore.  State 

Nov. 

Assumption-Clark 

Away 

4:00  P.M. 

7 

Norwich 

Home 

1:30  P.M. 

(Quadrangular) 

FRESHMAN  FOOTBALL 

Oct. 

Oct. 

3 

R.P.I.  -  M.I.T. 

Away 

2:30  P.M. 

2 

R.P.I. 

Away 

3:00  P.M. 

6 

Wesleyan 

Home 

4:30  P.M. 

9 

Coast  Guard 

Away 

8:00  P.M. 

10 

Bates 

Home 

2:30  P.M. 

23 

Tufts 

Home 

2:30  P.M. 

13 

Tufts 

Away 

4:00  P.M. 

21 

Brandeis 

Away 

4:00  P.M. 

VARSITY  SOCCER 

24 

Bentley 

Away 

1:00  P.M. 

Sept. 

31 

Williams-Coast  Guard 

Home 

2:00  P.M. 

26 

Hartford 

Away 

2:00  P.M. 

30 

Holy  Cross 

Away 

3:45  P.M. 

Nov. 

Oct. 

7 

Trinity  —  Amhurst 

Away 

12:00  Noon 

3 

Tufts 

Home 

2:00  P.M. 

7 

M.I.T. 

Home 

3:30  P.M. 

FRESHMAN  CROSS  COUNTRY 

10 

B.U. 

Home 

11:00  A.M. 

Oct. 

15 

Lowell 

Home 

3:30  P.M. 

3 

R.P.I.  -  M.I.T. 

Away 

2:00  P.M. 

17 

Clark 

Away 

2:00  P.M. 

6 

Wesleyan 

Home 

4:15P.M. 

20 

Assumption 

Away 

3:30  P.M. 

13 

Tufts 

Away 

4:00  P.M. 

24 

Coast  Guard 

Home 

11:00  A.M. 

19 

Wore.  Academy 

Home 

4:15P.M. 

27 

UMass 

Away 

2:00  P.M. 

23 

Leicester  Jr.  Coll. 

Home 

4:30  P.M. 

Nov. 

Nov. 

4 

A.I.C. 

Home 

2:30  P.M. 

7 

Trinity  —  Amherst 

Away 

12:00  Noon 

20 


THE  JOURNAL 


WPI 

ANNUAL  ALUMNI 

FUND  REPORT 


CLASS  TOTALS  —  June  30,  1970 

% 
Partici- 

% Par- 

% Par- 

Contrib- 

pation of 

Contrib- 

ticipation o 

f 

Contrib- 

ticipation 

of 

Class 

utors 

Members 

Amount 

Class 

utors 

Members 

Amount 

Class 

utors 

Members       Amount 

1896-1899 

2 

50% 

150.00 

1926 

59 

51% 

2,720.00 

1950 

72 

32% 

1,975.00 

1900 

1 

25% 

5.00 

1927 

40 

45% 

1,324.00 

1951 

70 

35% 

3,401.13 

1901 

4 

44% 

120.00 

1928 

55 

53% 

2,390.00 

1952 

61 

35% 

1,557.00 

1902 

2 

50% 

35.00 

1929 

47 

52% 

2,000.00 

1953 

51 

29% 

1,511.00 

1903 

5 

50% 

195.00 

1930 

49 

42% 

3,135.82 

1954 

44 

33% 

1,383.00 

1904 

2 

50% 

125.00 

1931 

51 

43% 

2,618.00 

1955 

37 

27% 

860.00 

1905 

2 

22% 

150.00 

1932 

47 

42% 

2,880.00 

1956 

39 

26% 

940.00 

1906 

4 

38% 

50.00 

1933 

61 

48% 

3,515.90 

1957 

58 

28% 

1,888.00 

1907 

13 

54% 

630.00 

1934 

52 

46% 

1,855.00 

1958 

65 

30% 

1,789.00 

1908 

10 

44% 

345.00 

1935 

55 

49% 

2,497.50 

1959 

61 

24% 

1,330.00 

1909 

11 

50% 

375.00 

1936 

47 

43% 

1,807.00 

1960 

62 

28% 

1,826.00 

1910 

14 

44% 

645.95 

1937 

46 

43% 

2,237.00 

1961 

72 

24% 

1,923.63 

1911 

7 

28% 

325.00 

1938 

56 

41% 

2,609.00 

1962 

52 

21% 

1,145.00 

1912 

15 

41% 

882.00 

1939 

55 

39% 

2,455.00 

1963 

53 

23% 

1,674.00 

1913 

26 

55% 

2,045.00 

1940 

58 

37% 

2,190.00 

1964 

60 

21% 

1,136.00 

1914 

20 

46% 

1,739.14 

1941 

51 

34% 

2,747.63 

1965 

63 

21% 

1,283.00 

1915 

28 

52% 

2,217.00 

1942 

66 

40% 

2,070.00 

1966 

53 

18% 

942.00 

1916 

29 

42% 

2,128.75 

1943 

56 

40% 

1,212.00 

1967 

58 

17% 

1,066.00 

1917 

39 

52% 

3,985.00 

1944 

51 

32% 

2,303.00 

1968 

63 

18% 

1,947.00 

1918 

17 

33% 

831.64 

1945 

57 

53% 

5,902.00 

1969 

41 

13% 

583.00 

1919 

23 

56% 

1.345.O0 

1946 

28 

21% 

952.00 

Hon.  & 

1920 

43 

49% 

12,981.00 

1946B 

20 

18% 

783.00 

Others 

17 

5,608.05 

1921 

34 

48% 

1,930.00 

1946C 

4 

33% 

67.00 

1922 

46 

52% 

2,570.00 

1946D 

18 

32% 

455.00 

Totals 

2,917 

32% 

$134,011.79 

1923 

33 

46% 

34% 

1,340.00 
1,423.00 

1947 
1948 

22 
63 

28% 
52% 

727.00 
2,035.00 

Matching  Gifts 

14,391.88 

1925 

24 

32% 

1,710.65 

1949 

75 

30% 

2,467.00 

Grand  Total 

$148,403.67 

DISTRICT  TOTALS  -  June  30,  1970 


No.  in 

District  District 

Pittsburgh 91 

Northern  California            140 

Southeastern           95 

Detroit 75 

Northern  New  Jersey 441 

Los  Angeles             216 

Cleveland 98 

Rhode  Island          262 

Rochester-Genesee 104 

Boston 801 

Worcester         1,324 

Western  New  York 75 

Hartford           612 

Connecticut  Valley             350 

Philadelphia            353 

Central  New  York 107 

New  Haven 419 

Washington 370 

North  Shore            297 

Chicago 105 

Hudson-Mohawk           135 

New  York 542 

Pacific  Northwest 37 

Berkshire           68 

Wilmington 149 

Cincinnati 50 

Out  of  District 1,813 

Others  &  Honorary             — 

TOTALS              9,129 

Matching  Gifts 

GRAND  TOTAL  


1969-70 

1968-69 

No.  of 

Amount 

%  Partici- 

Average 

%  Partici- 

Average 

Gifts 

Received 

pation 

Gift 

pation 

Gift 

45 

$      2,960.00 

49.5% 

$65.78 

63% 

$53.45 

69 

2,575.00 

49.3% 

37.32 

40% 

42.20 

42 

1,587.50 

44.2% 

37.79 

34% 

31.30 

33 

1,996.00 

44.0% 

60.48 

36% 

36.00 

188 

10,759.95 

42.6% 

57.23 

46% 

36.70 

82 

3,733.38 

38.0% 

45.53 

29% 

40.00 

37 

1,302.00 

37.8% 

35.19 

49% 

34.25 

97 

2,970.00 

37.0% 

30.62 

57% 

20.90 

38 

1.276.13 

36.5% 

33.58 

43% 

32.50 

286 

9,738.00 

35.7% 

34.05 

35% 

40.60 

467 

22,560.09 

35.3% 

48.31 

32% 

41.90 

26 

982.00 

34.7% 

37.77 

34% 

35.00 

206 

8,364.00 

33.7% 

40.60 

38% 

38.00 

115 

3.892.00 

32.9% 

33.84 

33% 

41.70 

109 

3,995.00 

30.9% 

36.65 

42% 

37.50 

33 

1,405.00 

30.8% 

42.58 

36% 

31.90 

128 

5,279.00 

30.5% 

41.24 

35% 

35.50 

113 

6,914.00 

30.5% 

61.19 

45% 

40.70 

88 

3,275.15 

29.6% 

37.22 

30% 

33.00 

31 

1,365.00 

29.5% 

44.03 

27% 

38.40 

39 

2,131.13 

28.9% 

54.64 

29% 

53.00 

153 

7,324.00 

28.2% 

47.87 

32% 

49.00 

9 

455.00 

24.3% 

60.56 

:w; 

61.80 

16 

500.00 

23.5% 

31.25 

33', 

28.50 

27 

1,440.00 

18.1% 

53.33 

— 

— 

8 

280.00 

16.0% 

35.00 

829 

27.00 

413 

18,654.41 

22.8% 

45.17 

21% 

44.30 

19 

6,298.05 
S134.OU.79 

— 

- 

34% 

— 

.917 

32.0% 

$45.94 

$40.58 

S    14,891.88 

SI  18. 403.67 

ANNUAL  ALUMNI  FUND  REPORT- 1969-70 


Dear  Alumni  and  Friends  of  WPI : 

Congratulations!  We  have  set  another  record  for  total  contributions  to  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund.  A  year  ago  we  set  a 
record  for  gifts  of  S119.822.00,  and  we  surpassed  that  this  year  with  a  final  total  of  $134,011.79.  In  addition,  514,391.88 
was  contributed  by  corporate  matching  gift  programs  making  total  contributions  to  the  1969-70  Annual  Alumni  Fund  a 
record-setting  $148,403.67. 

The  only  disappointing  note  to  the  program  was  our  low  percentage  of  participation.  Only  32.0%  of  our  alumni 
contributed  to  the  Fund,  a  disappointing  figure  in  view  of  our  goal  of  achieving  50%  participation  this  year. 

Contributions  by  alumni  are  an  important  source  of  revenue  for  colleges,  particularly  for  private  colleges.  It  is  through  the 
efforts  of  faithful  alumni  that  a  high-quality  education  can  continue  to  be  provided  for  WPI's  students. 

On  behalf  of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board  and  the  entire  solicitation  team,  thank  you  for  your  continued  support  of  your  alma 
mater-  Sincerely, 


Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Chairman 

1969-70  Annual  Alumni  Fund 


MEMBERS  OF  CLUBS 


THE  PRESIDENT'S  CLUB 

Earl  C.  Hughes  *14 

Alfred  W.  Francis  '17 

Moses  H.  Tease  '17 

Frederic  R.  Butler  '20 

John  Q.  Holmes  '20 

Burton  W.  Marsh  '20 

Carlton  J.  O'Neil  '20 
Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr.         '20 

William  E.  Hanson  '32 

Arthur  E.  Smith  '33 

James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr.  '45 

Robert  C.  Wolff  '51 

James  J.  Powers  '68 


THE  DEAN'S  CLUB 

Arthur  B.  Schofield  '13 

Ralph  M.  Johnson  '15 

George  W.  Smith,  Jr.  '15 

George  R.  Rich  '19 

Harold  B.  Whitmore  '21 

Weston  Hadden  '22 

Wayne  E.  Keith  '22 

J.  Kendall  Fullerton  '29 

Carl  W.  Backstrom  '30 

Aram  Kalenian  '33 

Francis  S.  Harvey  '37 

Charles  C.  Bonin  '38 

George  W.  Knauff  '41 
Irving  James  Donahue.  Jr.    '44 


THE  JOHN  BOYNTON  CLUB 

James  J.  Shea  '12 

Edmund  K.  Brown  '13 

Frank  G.  Gifford  '16 

Arthur  Nutt  '16 

Norman  P.  Knowlton  '18 

Herbert  E.  Brooks  '20 

Raymond  B.  Heath  '20 

Harold  G.  Hunt  '20 

George  L.  White  '20 

Helge  S.  Johnson  '24 

David  C.  Bailey  '25 

Luther  B.  Martin  '25 


Milton  E.  Berglund  '26 

Dwight  E.  Jones  '28 

Alexander  L.  Naylor  '28 

Oliver  B.  Merrill  '31 

Herbert  A.  Stewart  '31 
Edward  J.  Abendschein         '35 

William  R.  Steur  '35 

Richard  F.  Burke.  Jr.  '38 

Leonard  H.  White  '41 

Olavi  H.  Halttunen  '45 
George  E.  Comstock.  Ill       '46 

Peter  B.  Myers  '46B 

John  H.  Williams  '49 


THE  CENTURY  CLUB 

Ellery  B.  Paine  '97 

Richard  J.  Dearborn  '03 

Edwin  M.  Roberts  '04 

Harold  B.  Lamed  '05 

Percy  M.  Hall  '07 

Arthur  J.  Knight  '07 

Donald  H.  Mace  '07 

Percy  C.  Smith  '07 

Leon  W.  Hitchcock  '08 

Oliver  B.  Jacobs  '10 

Daniel  H.  Reamy  '10 

Edmund  M.  Flaherty  '11 

G.  Allan  King  '11 

Fred  G.  Munson  '12 

Frederick  S.  Carpenter  '13 

George  C.  Graham  '13 

David  G.  Howard  '13 

Harry  B.  Lindsay  '13 

Norris  D.  Pease  '13 

J.  Arthur  Planteroth  '13 

Leon  H.  Rice  '13 

Donald  M.  Russell  '13 

Roland  H.  Dufault  '14 

Carl  F.  Fritch  '14 

Ellwood  N.  Hennessy  '14 

George  Ross  '14 

Frederick  P.  Church  '15 

G.  Noble  Davidson  '15 


Everett  Hutchins  '15 

Raymond  P.  Lansing  '15 

Edwin  T.  Warren  '15 

Carl  H.  Burgess  '16 

Leslie  J.  Chaffee  '16 

Simon  Collier  '16 

Roland  D.  Home  '16 

James  C.  Walker  '16 

Selden  T.  Williams  '16 

Aurelio  E.  Zambarano  '16 

Andrew  B.  Holmstrom  '17 

John  M.  Leggett  '17 

Philip  C.  Pray  '17 

John  R.  Wheeler  '17 

Levi  E.  Wheeler  '17 

Benjamin  Luther  '18 

Edmond  E.  Moore  '18 

Howard  S.  Foster  '19 

Richard  L.  Olson  '19 

Thomas  B.  Rutherford  '19 

Robert  C.  Sessions  '19 

Paul  M.  Abbott  '20 

Chester  W.  Aldrich  '20 

Arvid  E.  Anderson  '20 

Malcolm  B.  Arthur  '20 

Frederick  W.  Bauder  '20 

C.  Harold  Berg  '20 

Harold  D.  Boutelle  '20 

Charles  A.  Gammal  '20 

Milton  W.  Garland  '20 

Paul  J.  Harriman  '20 

Richard  A.  Heald  '20 

Percy  A.  Hill  '20 
Richard  F.  W.  Johnson          '20 

Raymon  F.  Meader  '20 

Harry  C.  Merritt  '20 

Albert  R.  Rienstra  '20 

Hobart  D.  Sanborn  '20 

Harry  W.  Tenney  '20 

Ernest  Thompson,  Jr.  '20 

Oliver  R.  Wulf  '20 

Frank  K.  Brown  '21 

Philip  K.  Davis*  '21 

William  L.  Martin  '21 

Lyle  J.  Morse  '21 

John  S.  Nason  '21 

Paul  S.  Sessions  '21 


Lincoln  Thompson  '21 

Charles  I.  Babcock  '22 

Neil  T.  Heffernan  '22 

Lawrence  K.  Hyde  '22 

Lloyd  F.  McGlincy  '22 

Edwin  L.  Sholz  '22 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin  '23 

Wallace  C.  Hathaway  '23 

Percival  E.  Meyer  '23 

Richard  Walberg  '23 

J.  Norman  Alberti  '24 

Edward  G.  Beardsley  '24 

Thomas  L.  Counihan  '24 

Leslie  J.  Hooper  '24 

Harry  L.  Hurd  '24 

John  N.  Styffe  '24 

Donald  B.  Wilson  '24 

Daniel  L.  Hussey  '25 

James  C.  Irish  '25 

Henry  L.  Mellen  '25 

L.  Ivan  Underwood  '25 

Thomas  G.  Wright  '25 

Oliver  H.  Brewster  '26 

Phillip  R.  Delphos  '26 

Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr.  '26 

Archie  J.  Home  '26 

Eugene  M.  Hunter  '26 

Chandler  W.  Jones  '26 

John  S.  Miller  '26 

Charles  M.  Moran  '26 

Donald  F.  Sears  '26 

George  J.  Heckman  '27 

Charles  F.  Monnier  '27 

Carleton  R.  Sanford  '27 
Harold  G.  Butterworth  '28 

Frederick  H.  Knight  '28 

William  M.  Lester  '28 

William  A.  Manty  '28 

Robert  M.  Tucker  '28 

Charles  A.  Warren  '28 

Nathaniel  Clapp  '29 

Lothar  A.  Sontag  '29 

Russell  C.  Wiley  '29 

C.  Eugene  Center  '30 

Charles  H.  Cole  '30 

John  W.  Conley  '30 

Robert  E.  Hollick  '30 

Clifford  B.  Ives  '30 

William  W.  Locke  '30 

Paul  B.  Morgan,  Jr.  '30 

Albert  N.  Narter  '30 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady  '30 

Fred  P.  Peters  '30 

M.  Lawrence  Price  '30 

Warren  C.  Whittum  '30 

Uuno  O.  Annala  '31 

Albert  M.  Demont  '31 

Paul  H.  Fittz  '31 

Eben  H.  Rice  '31 

Trueman  L.  Sanderson  '31 

Nicholas  S.  Sculos  '31 

Robert  S.  Williamson  '31 

William  W.  Asp  '32 

Fred  A.  Bickford  '32 

Linn  M.  Lockwood  '32 

Donald  J.  McGee  '32 

Paul  E.  Nelson  '32 

Henry  B.  Pratt  '32 

Donald  W.  Putnam  '32 

William  F.  Reardon  '32 

Leon  D.  Skuropat  '32 

Sidney  Thune  '32 

Robert  E.  Ferguson  '33 

Kenneth  E.  Gleason  '33 

Gilbert  U.  Gustafson  '33 

Harry  T.  Jensen  '33 

Edwin  L.  Johnson  '33 

John  A.  Birch  '34 

Warren  H.  Davenport  '34 

Dwight  J.  Dwincll  '34 

Clayton  E.  Hunt.  Jr.  '34 


Luther  C.  Leavitt  '34 

Charles  W.  McElroy  '34 

Everett  F.  Sellew  '34 

Howard  E.  Stockwell  '34 

John  B.  Coyle  '35 

James  J.  Gushaw  *35 
Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.  '35 
Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.  '35 
Raymond  J.  Quenneville       '35 

M.  Kent  Smith  '35 

Plummet  Wiley  '35 

Harold  S.  Burr  '36 

Harold  F.  Henrickson  '36 

John  J.  O'Donnell  '36 

Stedman  W.  Smith  '36 

Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.  '36 

Robert  C.  Wright  '36 

Erving  Arundale  '37 

Philip  G.  Atwood  '37 

Martin  G.  Caine  '37 

Gordon  F.  Crowther  '37 

C.  Chapin  Cutler  '37 

Morton  S.  Fine  '37 

Charles  R.  Michel  '37 

Richard  J.  Donovan  '38 

Richard  M.  Elliott  '38 

Thomas  B.  Graham  '38 

Walter  E.  Knapp  '38 

Raymond  J.  Perreault  '38 

John  B.  Scalzi  '38 

Robert  M.  Taft  '38 

Walter  L.  Abel  '39 

Jack  F.  Boyd  '39 

Wilder  R.  Carson  '39 

William  L.  Kay  '39 

Arthur  H.  Mallon  '39 

Robert  W.  Martin  '39 

Ward  D.  Messimer  '39 

Billie  A.  Schmidt  '39 

Frans  E.  Strandberg  '39 

Donald  R.  Bates  '40 

William  S.  Brooks  '40 

Malcolm  S.  Burton  '40 

Raymond  J.  Forkey  '40 

Howard  G.  Freeman  '40 

Robert  E.  Higgs  '40 

Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr.  '40 

Lawrence  C.  Neale  '40 

S.  Merrill  Skeist  '40 

Stanley  M.  Terry  '40 

Donald  T.  Atkinson  '41 

George  A.  Cowan  '41 

Kenneth  R.  Dresser  '41 

Joseph  P.  Jurga  '41 

Robert  A.  Muir  *41 

Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr.  '41 

William  C.  Richardson  '41 

Donald  E.  Smith  '41 

Homer  R.  Arey  '42 

Roy  F.  Bourgault  '42 

Philip  J.  Hastings  '42 

Howard  C.  Warren  '42 
Samuel  W.  Williams,  Jr.         '42 

Richard  F.  Dyer  '43 

Herbert  Asher  '44 

George  W.  Collins  '44 

David  M.  Field  '44 
Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr.     '44 

Fred  S.  Moulton  '44 

Joseph  D.  Carrabino  '45 

Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr.  '45 

Robert  M.  Edgerly  '45 

Anson  C.  Fyler  '45 

Howard  D.  Gcrring  '45 

William  C.  Howard,  Jr.  '4  5 

Robert  E.  Scott  '45 

Edward  A.  Pendleton  '46 

Lawrence  T.  Garnett  '47 

Allan  Glazer  '47 

Albert  S.  Goldberg  '48 

Sameer  S.  Hassan  '48 


Clark  L.  Poland  '48 

James  S.  Adams  '49 

James  M.  Genser  '49 

Edward  A.  Luiz  '49 

Stanley  E.  Sherman  '49 

Donald  Taylor  '49 

Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr.  '49 
Henry  S.  C.  Cummings,  Jr.   '50 

William  C.  Griggs  '50 

Robert  F.  Stewart  '50 

G.  Albert  Anderson  '51  • 

Robert  N.  Cochran  '51 

Rafael  R.  Gabarro  '51 

Edward  A.  Kacmarcik  '51 

Frank  A.  MacPherson  '51 

Donald  F.  Stockwell  '51 

John  M.  Tracy  '52 

Orren  B.  McKnight,  Jr.  '53 

Anthony  J.  Ruksnaitis  '53 

David  T.  Van  Covern  '53 

Richard  D.  Kirk  '54 

Douglas  B.  MacLaren  '54 

Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr.  *54 

Walter  A.  Reibling  '54 

Edwin  Shivell  '54 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.  '56 

Donald  F.  Berth  '57 

John  W.  Braley,  Jr.  '57 

Allan  E.  Carlson  '57 

Richard  J.  Ferguson  '57 

Edward  J.  Moineau  *57 

David  E.  Stuart  '57 

David  S.  Crimmins  '58 

Philip  M.  French,  Jr.  '58 

Roger  A.  Jolicoeur  '58 

Marian  C.  Knight  '58 

William  M.  Aitken  '60 

Joshua  C.  Alpern  '60 

Dwight  M.  Cornell  '60 

Benjamin  B.  Morgan  '60 

Bradley  E.  Hosmer  '61 

Arthur  W.  Kroll  '61 

Robert  E.  Seamon  '61 

Bruce  W.  Woodford  '61 

Rimas  A.  Zinas  '61 

Nicholas  Cotsidas  '62 

Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr.  '62 

Arthur  E.  Goddard,  II  '63 

Robert  H.  Gowdy  "63 

Russell  E.  Person  '63 

Thomas  S.  Baron  '64 
Thomas  J.  Modzelewski        '64 

Maurice  R.  Silvestris  '64 

Robert  H.  Cahill  '65 

Chester  J.  Sergey,  Jr.  '65 

Peter  G.  Stebbins  '66 

Thomas  Y.  Liu  '67 

Robert  G.  Balmer  '68 

Craig  F.  Bradley  '69 

THE  BOOSTER  CLUB 

Frank  C.  Harrington  '98 

George  K.  Howe  '01 

Joseph  W.  Rogers  '01 

Ernest  C.  Morse  '05 

James  E.  Smith  '06 

P.  Alden  Beaman  '07 

Joseph  F.  Cullcn  '07 

Royal  W.  Davenport  '08 

George  A.  Barratt  '09 

Fred  F.  Chapman  *09 

Joseph  K.  Schoficld  '09 

Ralph  D.  Whltmore  '09 

William  R.  Bell  -10 

Millard  F.  Clement  "10 

Edward  A.  Ilanff  '10 

Clarence  W.  Taft  I  I 

Frank  M.  McGowan  '12 

Edward  J.  Dahill.  Jr.  '13 


Henry  J.  Schaefer  '13 

Farquhar  W.  Smith  '13 

Albert  S.  Crandon  '14 

Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart  '15 

Frank  Forsberg  '15 

Russell  N.  Hunter  '15 

Charles  B.  Hurd  '15 

Ulric  J.  LeBourveau  '15 

Edward  R.  Nary  '15 

Maurice  G.  Steele  '15 

J.  Arthur  Blair  '16 

Harold  W.  Howarth  '16 

Joseph  E.  Murphy  '16 

Harold  G.  Saunders  '16 

Clinton  S.  Darling  '17 

Arthur  E.  Gorman  '17 

Robert  C.  Hanckel  '17 

Russell  H.  Smith  '17 

Walter  B.  Dennen  '18 

Leroy  W.  Vinal  '18 

Howard  A.  Mayo  '19 

Charles  W.  Staples  '19 

Raymond  D.  Bishop  '20 

George  B.  Blaisdell  '20 

Henry  B.  Townsend  '20 

Albert  L.  Woodward  '20 

Robert  E.  Chapman  '21 

Richard  P.  Penfield  '21 

Carl  E.  Skroder  '21 

Irving  R.  Smith  '21 

Earl  H.  Winslow  '21 

Charles  N.  Clarkson  '22 

William  H.  Cooney  '22 

Robert  W.  Cushman  '22 

Richard  D.  Field  '22 

Wilfred  H.  Howe  '22 

Fred  Pickwick,  Jr.  '22 

John  V.  Russell  '22 

George  V.  Upton,  Jr.  '22 

J.  Carleton  Adams  '23 

Lincoln  A.  Cundall  '23 

Kenneth  E.  Hapgood  '23 
Edward  B.  Johnson  '23 

Weston  Morrill  '23 

Howard  S.  Nutting  '23 

Frederick  H.  Scheer  '23 

Richard  H.  V.  Shaw  '23 

Edward  J.  Burke  '24 

Warren  B.  Fish  '24 

Carroll  C.  Tucker  '24 

Stephen  J.  Vouch  '24 

Carl  F.  Carlstrom  '25 

Urban  R.  Lamay  '25 

David  J.  Minott  '25 

Harold  A.  Baines  '26 

Richard  S.  Boutelle  '26 

Ormond  J.  Chinnock  '26 

Frederick  D.  Fielder  '26 

Donald  L.  Hager  '26 

Clyde  W.  Hubbard  '26 

Henry  G.  Mildrum  '26 

Harry  C.  Peinert  '26 

William  A.  Russell  '26 

Mabbott  B.  Steele  '26 

Charles  J.  Thompson  '26 

Irvin  S.  Webster  '26 

Emerson  A.  Wiggin  '26 

George  L.  Bush  '27 

Edward  F.  Cahalen  '27 

Victor  E.  Hill  '27 

Charles  MacLennan  '27 

Dean  L.  Merrill  '27 

Charles  S.  Moore  '27 

William  M.  Rauha  '27 

Carl  H.  Schwind  '27 

Donald  S.  Searle  '27 

Russell  G.  Whittemore  '27 

W.  Bigelow  Hall  '28 

A.  Everett  Lawrence  '28 

Roland  C.  Mather  '28 

Harland  L.  Page  '28 


Karl  W.  Penney  '28 

Donald  P.  Reed  '28 

Gordon  E.  Rice  '28 

Roger  K.  Stoughton  '28 

Clifford  Broker  '29 

Carl  H.  Carlson  '29 

Stephen  D.  Donahue  '29 

Robert  M.  Eccles  '29 

O.  Vincent  Gustafson  '29 

Robert  S.  Heald  '29 

Holbrook  L.  Horton  '29 

Milton  F.  Labonte  '29 

Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr.  '29 

John  W.  Burt  '30 

Herbert  W.  Davis  '30 

William  H.  Doyle  '30 

Stanley  H.  Fillion  '30 

Thomas  F.  Flynn  '30 

Ralph  H.  Gilbert  '30 

Carmelo  S.  Greco  '30 

Lincoln  B.  Hathaway  '30 

Herbert  F.  Hillis  '30 

Francis  E.  Kennedy  '30 

George  A.  Marston  '30 

Philip  M.  Seal  '30 

F.  Dudley  Chaffee  '31 

Henry  N.  Deane  '31 

Milton  D.  Gleason  '31 

William  Graham  '31 

Jay  M.  Harpell  '31 

Otis  E.  Mace  '31 

John  A.  Mott  '31 

J.  Philip  Pierce  '31 

A.  Francis  Townsend  '31 
Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr.  '31 
Dana  B.  Carleton  '32 
Olof  W.  Nyquist  '32 
Hugo  P.  Borgatti  '33 
Charles  S.  Brewer  '33 
Herman  W.  Dorn  '33 
Leighton  Jackson  '33 
Carroll  M.  Johnson  '33 
George  W.  Lyman  '33 
Richard  T.  Merrell  '33 
H.  Edward  Perkins,  Jr.  '33 
Robert  C.  Peterson  '33 
Frederick  M.  Potter  '33 
Franklin  B.  Roberts  '33 
Jeremiah  H.  Vail  '33 
Albert  S.  White,  Jr.  '33 
Harold  B.  Bell  '34 
Allan  R.  Catheron  '34 
Ernest  M.  Crowell  '34 
Curtis  A.  Hedler  '34 
George  Kalista  '34 
John  H.  Keenan  '34 
Philip  C.  Sherburne  '34 
Paul  J.  Sullivan  '34 
Gordon  P.  Whitcomb  '34 

B.  Austin  Coates  '35 

C.  Marshall  Dann  '35 

Phillip  S.  Dean  '35 

Joseph  Glasser  '35 

Emerson  J.  Robinson  '35 

Charles  S.  Smith  '35 

Kingston  C.  Smith  '35 

Leo  T.  Benoit  '36 

John  R.  Brand  '36 

Earl  M.  Curtis  '36 

Walter  G.  Dahlstrom  '36 

C.  James  Ethier  '36 

Robert  Fowler,  Jr.  '36 

Jacob  A.  Sacks  '36 
Benjamin  H.  Smith,  Jr.          '36 

Caleb  D.  Hammond  '37 

Richard  J.  Lyman  '37 

William  Price  '37 

J.  Morrison  Smith  '37 

Robert  B.  Abbe  '38 

Robert  P.  Day  '38 

Neil  A.  Fitzgerald  '38 


Albert  J.  Kullas  '38 

John  G.  Lawrence  '38 

Daniel  G.  Mazur  '38 

Donald  F.  Pethybridge  '38 

Francis  B.  Swenson  '38 

Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr.  '39 

Harrison  K.  Brown  '39 

John  K.  Busada  '39 

Malcolm  R.  Chandler  '39 

Arthur  N.  Cooley  '39 

Donald  E.  Houser  *39 

Carl  A.  Keyser  '39 

Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr.  '39 

Edward  J.  Roszko  '39 

Richard  B.  Wilson  '39 

Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell  '40 

Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr.  '40 

Harding  B.  Jenkins  '40 

John  H.  Peters,  III  '40 

Lawrence  R.  Sullivan  '40 

David  B.  Zipser  '40 

Marvin  Handleman  '41 

Frank  R.  Lindberg  '41 

F.  Douglas  McKeown  '41 

Herman  Medwin  '41 

Hilliard  W.  Paige  '41 

Russell  W.  Parks  '41 

F.  William  Ziegler  '41 

Robert  E.  Allen  '42 

Gerald  J.  Bibeault  '42 

Paul  C.  Disario,  Jr.  '42 

Norman  A.  Kerr  '42 

Richard  H.  KimbaU.  Jr.  '42 

Frederic  C.  Merriam  '42 

Alexander  Mikulich  '42 

Rodney  G.  Paige  '42 

Victor  H.  Thulin  '42 

Paul  C.  Yankauskas  '42 

Warren  B.  Zepp  '42 

Robert  A.  Bierweiler  '43 

Jackson  L.  Durkee  '43 

Victor  E.  Kohman  '43 

Earl  G.  Page,  Jr.  '43 

James  J.  Pezza  '43 

Robert  P.  Seaton  '43 

Bruce  E.  Smyth  '43 

Gordon  C.  Anderson  '44 

C.  Edward  Bean  '44 

Erling  Lagerholm  '44 

Richard  W.  Russell  '44 

Charles  P.  Stowell  '44 

John  G.  Underhill  '44 

John  N.  Wholean  '44 

Frank  C.  Baginski  '45 

Edwin  G.  Baldwin  '45 

Carl  C.  Clark  '45 

Harold  D.  Fleit  '45 

Martin  R.  FUnk,  Jr.  '45 

Louis  J.  Hallisey  '45 

John  T.  E.  Hegeman  '45 

Philip  A.  Henning  '45 

Burton  L.  Hinman.  Jr.  '45 

John  B.  McMaster  '45 

Robert  C.  Appenzeller  '46 

James  Bush,  Jr.  '46 

Joseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr.  *46 
Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr.    '46B 

John  Lee  '46D 

Joseph  P.  Manna  '46D 

Robert  W.  Schramm  '46D 

Adelbert  W.  Whitman  '46D 

Daniel  W.  Knoll  '47 

Paul  D.  O'Donnell  '47 

William  J.  Rice  '47 

Samuel  Ringel  '47 

Samuel  W.  Cocks  '48 

Norman  L.  Diegoli  '48 

Paul  E.  Evans  '48 

Niel  I.  Fishman  '48 

Richard  K.  Home  '48 

Norman  J.  Jardine  '48 

Charles  F.  Jones  '48 


James  G.  McKeman  '48 

Alan  R.  Pearlman  '48 

Daniel  H.  Sheingold  '48 

Sturgis  A.  Sobin  '48 

Walter  J.  Charow  '49 

Richard  J.  Coughlin  '49 

Malcolm  E.  Ferson  '49 

Peter  Kalil  '49 

Daniel  L.  McQuillan  '49 

William  J.  Ploran  '49 

Edward  W.  Randall  '49 

John  J.  Wheeler  '49 

John  F.  Brierly  '50 

John  P.  Burgarella  '50 

Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr.  '50 

Donald  W.  Dodge  '50 

R.  Reed  Grimwade  '50 

Robert  J.  Hallisey  '50 

Richard  E.  Hathaway  '50 

Arthur  W.  Joyce,  Jr.  '50 

Paul  D.  May  '50 

Richard  C.  Olson  '50 

Robert  E.  Smith  '50 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.  '50 

Bruce  M.  Bailey  '51 

Ashton  B.  Brown  '51 

Arthur  H.  Gerald,  Jr.  '51 

Halsey  E.  Griswold  '51 

Harvey  L.  Howell  '51 

Charles  F.  Mulrenan  '51 

Constantino  Mustakis  '51 

Owen  Ott  '51 

Dick  van  den  Berge  '51 

Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz  '52 

Albert  N.  Brauer  '52 
Charles  F.  Crathern,  III         '52 

David  R.  Fairbanks  '52 

Edward  M.  Felkel  '52 

Ray  N.  Fenno  '52 

Donald  M.  Krauss  '52 

Roland  R.  St.  Louis  '52 

Robert  F.  Turek  '52 

Edgar  L.  Van  Cott,  Jr.  '52 

Gordon  C.  Willard  '52 

Robert  E.  Behringer  '53 

Richard  A.  Davis  '53 


David  M.  Elovitz  '53 

John  H.  Gearin,  Jr.  '53 

Richard  J.  Hall  '53 

David  B.  Hallock  '53 

Philip  J.  Kaminsky  '53 

William  G.  Mears  '53 

Donald  G.  Post  '53 

Leo  A.  Salmen  '53 

Philip  E.  Simon,  Jr.  '53 

Michael  S.  Zucker  '53 

Joachim  Herz  '54 

S.  Paul  London  '54 

Fabian  Pinkham  '54 

George  D.  Ramig  '54 

Gerald  R.  Backlund  '55 

Peter  H.  Horstmann  '55 

Philip  Lincoln  '55 

Donald  M.  McNamara  '55 

Reynald  J.  Sansoucy  '55 

Robert  J.  Schultz  '55 

Gordon  E.  Walters  '55 

Allan  R.  Hunderup  '56 

John  L.  Hyde,  II  '56 

Hans  H.  Koehl  '56 

David  A.  Pratt  '56 

Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.  '56 

Peter  J.  Stephens  '56 

Fred  H.  Clark,  Jr.  '57 

Alex  C.  Papaioannou  '57 

Keith  O.  Preston  '57 

William  W.  Rawstron  '57 

Alvin  E.  Tanner  '57 

Robert  P.  Weis  '57 

Charles  A.  Whitney  '57 

David  B.  Denniston  '58 

William  F.  Gess,  Jr.  '58 

Robert  A.  Moore  '58 

Joaquim  S.  S.  Ribeiro  '58 

Bernard  V.  Ricciardi  '58 

Harvey  G.  Roberts  '58 

Joseph  R.  Russo  '58 

Norman  J.  Taupeka  '58 

James  J.  Vedovelli  '58 

Robert  A.  Berg  '59 

Paul  A.  Bonczyk  '59 

Richard  N.  Gustafson  '59 


Robert  Kieltyka  '59 

Roger  W.  Kuenzel  '59 

Richard  S.  Orehotsky  '59 

Ronald  F.  Swenson  '59 

Edwin  D.  Tenney  '59 

Mark  H.  Abramowitz  '60 

Paul  W.  Bayliss  '60 

Ronald  A.  Carlson  '60 

Richard  P.  Harding  '60 

David  A.  Johnson  '60 

Sang  K.  Lee  '60 

Kenneth  L.  Matson  '60 

Bruce  E.  Schoppe  '60 

Bernard  J.  Seastrom  '60 

Bernard  L.  Tetreault  '60 

Henry  P.  Allessio  '61 

Robert  R.  Hale  '61 

Thomas  E.  Postma  '61 

Lloyd  W.  Pote  '61 

Andrew  M.  Edelman  '62 

Thomas  J.  Tully  '62 

Myron  R.  Waldman  '62 

Robert  P.  Wilder  '62 

Joseph  V.  Bucciaglia  '63 

David  E.  Dunklee,  Jr.  '63 

Earl  T.  Fratus  '63 

W.  Allan  LUius  '63 

John  H.  Sistare  '63 

Peter  L.  Dornemann  '64 

William  J.  Museler  '64 

John  H.  Schmidt  '64 

Stanley  Szymanski  '64 

Peter  K.  Bice  '65 

Stephen  L.  Cloues  '65 

Philip  C.  Nyberg  '65 

James  W.  Pierce  '65 

Wayne  D.  Pobzeznik  '65 

David  M.  Schwaber  '65 

Donald  E.  McCarthy  '66 

Michael  C.  Napolitano  '66 

Jonathan  H.  Pardee  '66 

Mukundray  N.  Patel  '67 

Robert  P.  Tolokan  '67 

Michael  J.  True  '68 

James  M.  Wendell  '68 

Ralph  W.  Rollo  '69 


TOP  THREE  DISTRICTS 

By  Percentage  of  Participation 

1. 

49  5% 

2. 

Northern  California 

49.3% 

3. 

Southeastern          

TOP  FIVE  CLASSES 
By  Percentage  of  Participation 

44.2% 

1. 

1919           

56% 

2. 

1913           

55% 

3. 

1907           

54% 

4. 

1945           

53% 

5. 

1928           

53% 

ALUMNI  FUND  RECORD 

1960-1970 

1960-61 

S  77,535 

1961-62 

80,104 

1962-63 

92,316 

1963-64 

108,864 

1964-67 

.Centennial  Fund  Years 

1967-68 

112,472 

1968-69 

119,823 

1969-70 

134,012 

CONTRIBUTORS  TO  THE  1969-70  ANNUAL  ALUMNI  FUND 


Honorary  Alumni 
IN  MEMORIAM 
George  H.  Haynes 

1889 
IN  MEMORIAM 
Myron  J.  Bigelow 

1897 
2  MEMBERS 
1  Contributor  50% 

*Ellery  B.  Paine 

1898 
1  MEMBER 
1  Contributor  100% 

♦Frank  C.  Harrington 

1900 
4  MEMBERS 

1  Contributor  25% 
Lester  W.  West 

1901 

9  MEMBERS 

4  Contributors  44% 

*Theo.  Brown 
James  W.  Freeman 
George  K.  Howe 
Joseph  W.  Rogers 

1902 
4  MEMBERS 

2  Contributors  50% 
*Winthrop  G.  Hall 
*William  A.  Jordan 

1903 

10  MEMBERS 

5  Contributors  50% 
Richard  J.  Dearborn 

Lewis  E.  Dickinson 
Benjamin  D.  Foot 
Henry  J.  Potter 
Edward  L.  Stone,  Jr. 

1904 
4  MEMBERS 
2  Contributors  50% 

Seth  R.  Clark 
Edwin  M.  Roberts 

1905 
9  MEMBERS 
2  Contributors  22% 

*Harold  B.  Larned 
Ernest  C.  Morse 

1906 
13  MEMBERS 
5  Contributors  38% 

♦Sidney  W.  Farnsworth 
Franklin  C.  Green 
Roy  S.  Lanphear 
Leroy  N.  Reeve 
*James  E.  Smith 

1907 
24  MEMBERS 
13  Contributors  54% 

*P.  Alden  Beaman 
Albert  G.  Belden 
L.  Herbert  Carter 
Joseph  F.  Cullen 
Percy  M.  Hall 
Raymond  A.  Haskell 
Howard  H.  Haynes 

*  Arthur  J.  Knight 
♦Donald  H.  Mace 

Wilbur  C.  Searle 

*  Percy  C.  Smith 
Chester  B.  Starbird 


William  R.  Wood 

1908 
23  MEMBERS 

10  Contributors 
Arthur  F.  Barnes 
Herbert  M.  Carleton 

*Royal  W.  Davenport 
Sumner  A.  Davis 
Leon  W.  Hitchcock 
Forrest  G.  Kirsch 
George  H.  Ryan 
Donald  D.  Simonds 
Richmond  W.  Smith 
Louis  H.  Trott 

1909 
22  MEMBERS 

11  Contributors 
George  A.  Barratt 
Fred  F.  Chapman 
Victor  E.  Friden 
Charles  F.  Goldthwait 
Dudley  Harmon 
Frank  E.  Hawkes 

*Wilfred  F.  Jones 
Elwin  H.  Kidder 
Joseph  K.  Schofield 
Leslie  E.  Swift 
Ralph  D.  Whitmore 

1910 
32  MEMBERS 
14  Contributors 
Carlyle  A.  Atherton 
Charles  E.  Barney 

*  William  R.  Bell 
Ernest  W.  Bishop 
Millard  F.  Clement 
Ralph  G.  Gold 
Frank  W.  Green 
Edward  A.  Hanff 
Karl  E.  Herrick 

*OUver  B.  Jacobs 
Everett  D.  Learned 
George  F.  Martin 

*Clarence  A.  G.  Pease 
Daniel  H.  Reamy 

1911 
25  MEMBERS 
7  Contributors 
Charles  A.  Bassett 
David  E.  Carpenter 
Edmund  M.  Flaherty 
Harold  R.  Frizzell 
*G.  Allan  King 
A.  Hugh  Reid 
Clarence  W.  Taft 

1912 
37  MEMBERS 
15  Contributors 

Eric  G.Benedict 
Harrison  G.  Brown 
Earl  W.  Gleason 
J.  Francis  Granger 
Frank  M.  McGowan 
Fred  G.  Munson 
*Frank  H.  Plaisted 
Eugene  H.  Powers 
Henry  A.  Rickett 
*James  J.  Shea 
*Harland  F.  Stuart 
Roger  P.  Towne 
Leon  H.  Treadwell 
Edward  J.  Tucker 
F.  Holman  Waring 

1913 
44  MEMBERS 
24  Contributors 
W.  Harker  Acton 


50% 


44% 


28% 


41"; 


55% 


Clarence  A.  Brock 

Edmund  K.  Brown 

Arthur  C.  Burleigh 
♦Frederick  S.  Carpenter 

George  E.  Chick 

Edward  J.  Dahill,  Jr. 

Sherman  A.  Geer 

George  C.  Graham 

Leon  H.  Greenwood 

Allen  H.  Gridley 

David  G.  Howard 
*Alton  H.  Kingman 
*  Harry  B.  Lindsay 

Albert  J.  Lorion 
♦Norris  D.  Pease 

J.  Arthur  Planteroth 

Leon  H.  Rice 

Donald  M.  Russell 

Henry  J.  Schaefer 
♦Arthur  B.  Schofield 

Farquhar  W.  Smith 

Millard  C.  Spencer 

William  R.  Stults 

1914 
48  MEMBERS 

22  Contributors  46% 

James  L.  Atsatt 
♦Edward  C.  Bartlett 

Winthrop  B.  Brown 

Arthur  H.  Burns 

Horace  L.  Cole 

Albert  S.  Crandon 

Ray  C.  Crouch 

John  J.  Desmond 
♦Roland  H.  Dufault 

Carl  F.  Fritch 

A.  Frederick  Griffin 
♦Franklin  C.  Gurley 

Albin  Hedlund 

Ellwood  N.  Hennessy 

Asa  Hosmer 

Earl  C.  Hughes 
♦Edward  T.  Jones 

George  Ross 

William  W.  Spratt 

Harold  L.  Tilton 

Arthur  C.  Torrey 

Clayton  R.  Wilcox 
♦R.  L.  Keith  Memorial  Fund 

1915 
54  MEMBERS 
28  Contributors  52% 

Clarence  F.  Alexander 
Dwight  E.  Allen 
Allen  M.  Atwater 
Howard  C.  Barnes 
William  J.  Becker 
John  M.  Bond 
Frederick  P.  Church 
♦G.  Noble  Davidson 
Benjamin  B.  Dewart 
David  H.  Fleming 
Frank  Forsberg 
Robert  E.  Hancock 
Earl  V.  Higbee 
Harrison  W.  Hosmer 
♦Russell  N.  Hunter 
Charles  B.  Hurd 
Everett  Hutchins 
Ralph  M.  Johnson 
Raymond  P.  Lansing 
♦Carroll  M.  Lawton 
Ulric  J.  Lebourveau 
Douglas  F.  Miner 
Edward  R.  Nary 
Ernest  B.  Norton 
George  W.  Smith,  Jr. 
Myron  M.  Smith 
Maurice  G.  Steele 
Edwin  T.  Warren 


1916 
66  MEMBERS 
28  Contributors 


42% 


♦J.  Arthur  Blair 

Carl  H.  Burgess 

Leslie  J.  Chaffee 

Wellen  H.  Colburn 
♦Simon  Collier 

Philip  N.  Cooke 

Herbert  N.  Eaton 

Frank  G.  Gifford 

Harold  C.  Hickock 

Roland  D.  Home 
♦Harold  W.  Howarth 
♦Robert  E.  Lamb 

Donald  B.  Maynard 

Philip  P.  Murdick 

Joseph  E.  Murphy 

Arthur  Nutt 

Chester  G.  Rice 

Ellery  E.  Royal 

Clifford  W.  Sanderson 

Harold  G.  Saunders 

Walton  B.  Scott 
♦C.  Leroy  Storms 

Sidney  T.  Swallow 

Horace  Trull 

James  C.  Walker 

William  S.  Warner 

Selden  T.  Williams 

Aurelio  E.  Zambarano 

1917 
75  MEMBERS 
39  Contributors  52% 

Arthur  C.  Bird 
Edward  M.  Brennan 
Russell  H.  Callahan 
Walter  F.  Conlin,  Sr. 
Clinton  S.  Darling 
Richard  B.  Davidson 
Clarence  E.  Fay 
♦Alfred  W.  Francis 
Leland  A.  Gardner 
Walter  H.  Gifford 
Arthur  E.  Gorman 
William  H.  Green 
Robert  C.  Hanckel 
David  E.  Hartshorn 
(Income)  Charles  E.  Heywood 
Raymond  M.  Hicks 
Frederic  L.  Holbrook 
Andrew  B.  Holmstrom 
Clyde  T.  Hubbard 
Everett  B.  Janvrin 
Richard  D.  Lambert 
John  M.  Leggett 
Paul  J.  Matte 
♦Warren  W.  Parks 
Edgar  N.  Pike 
Philip  C.  Pray 
♦Hermon  F.  Safford 
Henry  W.  Sheldrick 
Russell  H.  Smith 
♦Moses  H.  Teaze 
Samuel  H.  Thompson 
Charles  A.  Thrasher 
Clarence  B.  Tilton 
Robert  L.  Tomblen 
Max  W.  Tucker 
John  A.  C.  Warner 
John  R.  Wheeler 
Levi  E.  Wheeler 
Hollis  J.  Wyman 

1918 
52  MEMBERS 
17  Contributors  33% 

Charles  C.  Alvord 
James  Apostolou 
Walter  B.  Dennen 
Ervant  H.  Eresian 


An  asterisk  is  used  to  commend  those  who  have  contributed  annually  since  the  beginning  of  the  Alumni  Fund  in  1924,  or  since  their 
graduation.  Asterisks  are  not  used  for  the  first  contributions  of  the  Class  of  1969. 


George  C.  Griffith 
*Norman  P.  Knowlton 
*John  F.  Kyes,  Jr. 

Heyward  F.  Lawton 

Lewis  F.  Lionvale 

Francis  N.  Luce 
♦Benjamin  Luther 

Edmond  E.  Moore 

Hobart  H.  Newell 

Maurice  W.  Richardson 

Ralph  F.  Tenney 

Leroy  W.  Vinal 

Winfred  D.  Wilkinson 

1919 
45  MEMBERS 

25  Contributors  56% 

*Edwin  W.  Bemis 

Carl  I.  Benson 

Everett  C.  Bryant 

George  W.  Caldwell 

Roy  H.  Carpenter 

Roger  B.  Chaffee 

John  W.  Coghlin 

Cyril  W.  Dawson 

Eric  S.  Ericsson 

Howard  S.  Foster 

Ray  W.  Heffernan 

Philip  H.  Holbrook 

Judah  H.  Humphrey 
*Howard  A.  Mayo 

Howard  A.  McConville 

Richard  S.  Morse 

H.  Earl  Munz 

Richard  L.  Olson 

Vincent  J.  Pettine 

George  R.  Rich 

Thomas  B.  Rutherford 
*Robert  C.  Sessions 

Charles  W.  Staples 

Raymond  E.  Taylor 

Harold  W.  Thompson 


1920 
69  MEMBERS 
34  Contributors 


49% 


Paul  M.  Abbott 

Chester  W.  Aldrich 
*Arvid  E.  Anderson 

Stanley  W.  Arthur 

Willis  F.  Atkinson 

Laurence  G.  Bean 

George  B.  Blaisdell 

Harold  D.  Boutelle 

Herbert  E.  Brooks 

Frederic  R.  Butler 

Norman  C.  Firth 
♦Milton  W.  Garland 

Paul  J.  Harriman 

Richard  A.  Heald 

Raymond  B.  Heath 

Allan  W.  Hill 

Percy  A.  Hill 

Richard  F.  W.  Johnson 
*Burton  W.  Marsh 
Raymon  F.  Meader 
Harry  C.  Merritt 
♦Carlton  J.  O'Neil 
Ernest  A.  Peel 
Albert  R.  Rienstra 
Hobart  D.  Sanborn 
Baalis  Sanford 
♦Walter  B.  Shear 
•Harry  W.  Tenney 
Henry  B.  Townsend 
George  L.  White 
Lester  C.  Wightman 
Albert  L.  Woodward 
Guy  F.  Woodward 
Oliver  R.  Wulf 

CLASS  OF  1920 
50- Year  Class  Gift 
Paul  M.  Abbott 
Chester  W.  Aldrich 

♦Arvid  E.  Anderson 
Malcolm  B.  Arthur 


Prof.  Frederick  W.  Bauder 

C.  Harold  Berg 

Raymond  D.  Bishop 

George  B.  Blaisdell 

Harold  D.  BouteUe 

Herbert  E.  Brooks 

Dr.  Frederic  R.  Butler 

Charles  A.  Gammal 
♦Milton  W.  Garland 

Richard  A.  Heald 

Raymond  B.  Heath 

John  Q.  Holmes 

Harold  G.  Hunt 
♦Burton  W.  Marsh 

Raymon  F.  Meader 

Harry  C.  Merritt 
♦Carlton  J.  O'Neil 

Ernest  A.  Peel 

Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr. 

Albert  R.  Rienstra 

Rudolph  C.  Stange 
♦Harry  W.  Tenney 

Ernest  Thompson,  Jr. 

Henry  B.  Townsend 

George  L.  White 
Guy  F.  Woodward 

Dr.  Oliver  R.Wulf 

In  Memoriam,  Stanley  W.  Arthur 

1921 
68  MEMBERS 

33  Contributors  48% 

Harold  S.  Black 

Carleton  F.  Bolles 

Frank  K.  Brown 

Cornelius  A.  Callahan 

Myron  D.  Chace 

Robert  E.  Chapman 

Philip  K.  Davis 

Irving  M.  Desper 

Robert  M.  Eldred 

Walter  G.  Fielder 

Edward  J.  P.  Fisher 

Wilmore  C.  Harcus 

Carroll  A.  Huntington 

Cyril  Israel 

Roger  R.  Jenness 
♦E.  Daniel  Johnson 

Joseph  Kushner 

Lyman  C.  Lovell 
♦William  L.  Martin 

Stanley  N.  McCaslin 

Lyle  J.  Morse 

John  S.  Nason 

Richard  P.  Penfield 

Edward  Rose 
♦Paul  S.  Sessions 

B.  Clark  Shaw 

Carl  E.  Skroder 
Irving  R.  Smith 
Foster  E.  Sturtevant 
Lincoln  Thompson 
♦Harold  B.  Whitmore 
Earl  H.  Winslow 
Paul  D.  Woodbury 

1922 
88  MEMBERS 
46  Contributors  52% 

Dean  W.  Alden 
Charles  I.  Babcock 
Wendell  B.  Batten 
Wellington  H.  Bingham 
Alden  I.  Brigham 
Edward  L.  Campbell 
Charles  N.  Clarkson 
Edward  H.  Colcsworthy 
Martin  J.  Conroy 
William  H.  Cooncy 
Charles  S.  Cushing 
Robert  W.  Cushman 
Emerson  B.  Donnell 
Warren  A.  Ellsworth 
Richard  D.  Field 
Russell  M.  Field 
Weston  Haddrn 


Neil  T.  Heffernan 
John  A.  Herr 
William  S.  Hoar 
Wilfred  H.  Howe 

Lawrence  K.  Hyde 
♦Wayne  E.  Keith 

Enfried  T.  Larson 

Kenneth  J.  Lloyd 

James  L.  Marston 

Frank  R.  Mason 

Lloyd  F.  McGlincy 
♦Carl  F.  Meyer 

Fred  P.  Millard 

William  E.  Murphy 

Clark  H.  Overhiser 

C.  Warren  Page 

George  F.  Parsons 

Fred  Pickwick,  Jr. 

Harold  S.  Rice 

Henry  J.  Rives 

John  V.  Russell 

Ernest  M.  Schiller 

Edwin  L.  Sholz 

Luther  C.  Small 

Stanley  M.  Townsend 

George  V.  Upton,  Jr. 
♦George  A.  Walker 
♦Philip  H.  White 

Robert  M.  Wilder 

1923 
72  MEMBERS 
33  Contributors  46% 

J.  Carleton  Adams 
Jesse  M.  Blodget 
♦George  S.  Cary 
♦Edwin  B.  Coghlin 
Carl  R.  Cron 
Lincoln  A.  Cundall 
Andrew  Fiore 
Kenneth  E.  Hapgood 
William  J.  Harrington 
Wallace  C.  Hathaway 
♦C.  Freeman  Hawley 
Carl  M.  Holden 
Max  Hurowitz 
Edward  B.  Johnson 
Lewis  J.  Lenny 
Philip  W.  Lundgren 
Joseph  P.  Mason 
Erwin  H.  Mattson 
Percival  E.  Meyer 
Weston  Morrill 
Raymond  D.  Morrison 
♦Howard  S.  Nutting 
Ralph  C.  Pierce 
Cortis  N.  Rice,  Jr. 
Frederick  H.  Scheer 
Richard  H.  V.  Shaw 
George  B.  Snow 
Paul  R.  Swan 
Roger  T.  Waite 
Richard  Walberg 
Ralph  W.  White 
♦Everett  G.  Wightman 
Raymond  S.  Worth 

1924 

65  MEMBERS 

22  Contributors  34% 

•J.  Norman  Alberti 
Clarence  E.  Anderson 
Solon  C.  Bartlett 
Edward  G.  Bcardsley 

•Francis  C.  Bragg 
Edward  J.  Burke 
Edward  L.  Carrington 
Thomas  L.  Counihan 
Godfrey  J.  Daniclson 

•Warren  B.  Fish 
James  A.  Htllman 

•Leslie  .1.  Hooper 
Harry  L.  Kurd 

Mlelge  S.  Johnson 
Lioni-i  ( i.  Lundgren 
DouRlas  B.  Martin 


John  N.  Styffe 

Carroll  C.  Tucker 

Stephen  J.  Vouch 

Raymond  G.  Wilcox 
♦Gordon  C.  Willard 
♦Donald  B.  Wilson 

1925 
74  MEMBERS 

24  Contributors  32% 

♦David  C.  Bailey 

Wolcott  S.  Bissell 

Roger  N.  Brooks 

Llewellyn  A.  Burgess 

Carl  F.  Carlstrom 

Louis  Corash 

O.  Arnold  Hansen 

Arthur  V.  Houle 
♦Daniel  L.  Hussey 

James  C.  Irish 

Urban  R.  Lamay 
♦Luther  B.  Martin 

Donald  M.  McAndrew 

Henry  L.  Mellen 

David  J.  Minott 

Roy  B.  Payne 

Julian  B.  Pendleton 

William  F.  Ronco 

Leonard  F.  Sanborn 

Robert  B.  Scott 

Jackson  K.  Sterrett 

L.  Ivan  Underwood 

Sigurd  R.  Wendin 

Thomas  G.  Wright 

1926 
118  MEMBERS 
60  Contributors  51% 

Robert  H.  Alberti 
Walter  F.  Ames 

Kenneth  R.  Archibald 
♦Harold  A.  Baines 

Russell  F.  Barker 

Walter  R.  Bennet 

Milton  E.  Berglund 

Raymond  H.  Bjork 

Richard  S.  Boutelle 

Oliver  H.  Brewster 

Ormond  J.  Chinnock 

Raymond  C.  Connolly 

William  R.  Crabtree 
♦Phillip  R.  Delphos 
♦Donald  G.  Downing 

Elmer  O.  Earnshaw 

Frederick  D.  Fielder 

Joseph  P.  Flemming 

Donald  L.  Hager 

Arthur  W.  Haley 

Elmer  Hansen 
♦Charles  B.  Hardy 

Arnold  P.  Hayward 

Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr. 

Fred  H.  Hedin 

Archie  J.  Home 

Richard  P.  Houlihan 

Clyde  W.  Hubbard 
•Eugene  M.  Hunter 

Stanley  F.  Johnson 

Chandler  W.  Jones 

Vahan  B.  Kurkjian 

Winthrop  S.  Marston 
•Carleton  F.  Maylott 

Henry  G.  Mildrum 

John  S.  Miller 

Wilbert  T.  Moore 

Charles  M.  Moran 
•John  A.  Morse 

Stanley  R.  Osborne 

Linwood  E.  Page 

Armand  L.  Paquette 

Arthur  C.  Parsons 

Harry  c.  Pelnert 

Lawrence  S.  Peterson 

George  1.  Pierce 

James  A.  Robertson 

William  A.  lliiwll 


Randall  P.  Saxton 
Donald  F.  Sears 
Charles  T.  Smith 
Mabbott  B.  Steele 
Harry  E.  Stratton 
Charles  J.  Thompson 
♦Howard  B.  Thomson 
Llewellin  W.  Wade 
Irvin  S.  Webster 
A.  Harold  Wendin 
Emerson  A.  Wiggin 
Alfred  D.  Wilson 

1927 

87  MEMBERS 

39  Contributors  45% 

Richard  E.  Bliven 

George  L.  Bush 

Edward  F.  Cahalen 

C.  Sture  Carlson 

Ellsworth  B.  Carpenter 

Chester  A.  Deane 

Charles  H.  Fogg 

Louis  H.  Griff 

Chester  Haitsma 
♦George  J.  Heckman 
♦Victor  E.  Hill 

E.  Carl  Hoglund 

John  E.  Howe 

Richard  K.  Irons 

Lester  G.  Jaquith 

Robert  E.  Johnson   . 

Walter  G.  Johnson 

Harry  J.  Kathman 

Edward  J.  Kearnan 

Donald  L.  King 

Leonard  W.  Lewis 

Philip  A.  MacArdle 

Charles  MacLennan 
♦Arthur  C.  Manning 

Dean  L.  Merrill 
♦Charles  S.  Moore 

Kevork  K.  Nahigyan 

Robert  L.  Parker 

William  M.  Rauha 

Carleton  R.  Sanford 

Carl  H.  Schwind 

Donald  S.  Searle 

James  M.  Simmons 

Nathan  M.  Southwick,  Jr. 

Howard  F.  Stephenson 

Paul  W.  Swenson 
♦Emmett  A.  Thrower 
♦Russell  G.  Whittemore 

John  F.  Wood 

1928 
103  MEMBERS 

55  Contributors  53% 

Milton  H.  Aldrich 

Carl  F.  Alsing 

Lawrence  E.  Backlin 

Roderick  A.  Bail 

Gabriel  O.  Bedard 

Harold  G.  Butterworth 
♦Frank  E.  Buxton 

Bernard  N.  Carlson 

Arthur  M.  Cheney,  Jr. 

Lyman  W.  Cross 

Herbert  P.  Dobie 

John  E.  Driscoll 

Charles  G.  Durbin 

Theodore  J.  Englund 

Clifford  G.  Engstrom 

Frank  J.  Fleming 

W.  Bigelow  Hall 

Jacob  J.  Jaffee 
♦Dwight  E.  Jones 

Ralph  V.  Karlson 
♦Francis  H.  King 

Frederick  H.  Knight 
♦A.  Everett  Lawrence 

Louis  F.  Leidholdt 

William  M.  Lester 

Clifford  S.  Livermore 


Ralph  H.  Lundberg 
James  A.  MacNabb 
William  A.  Manty 
Roland  C.  Mather 
James  H.  McCarthy 
Charles  B.  Muzzy 
Alexander  L.  Naylor 
Forrest  S.  Nelson 
Reginald  J.  Odabashian 
Arthur  W.  Olcott 
Harland  L.  Page 
Karl  W.  Penney 
Wilbur  H.  Perry 
Stanley  H.  Pickford 
♦Donald  P.  Reed 
Gordon  E.  Rice 
Frederick  G.  Sandstrom 
Lester  H.  Sarty 
Arthur  T.  Simmonds 
Roger  K.  Stoughton 
Milton  A.  Swanson 
Arthur  M.  Tarbox 
Andrew  G.  Toussaint 
Robert  M.  Tucker 
Charles  A.  Warren 
Winslow  C.  Wentworth 
Andrew  L.  Wilkinson 
Edward  N.  Wooding 
Alfred  W.  Young 


1929 
90  MEMBERS 
47  Contributors 


52% 


Frederick  G.  Baldwin 
♦Wayne  S.  Berry 

Clifford  Broker 

Charles  J.  Brzezinski 
♦Arthur  H.  Burr 

Carl  H.  Carlson 

Luther  Q.  H.  Chin 

Nathaniel  Clapp 

Arnold  M.  Cook 

William  L.  Crosby 

Boris  Dephoure 

Diran  Deranian 

John  R.  Dobie 

Stephen  D.  Donahue 

Robert  M.  Eccles 

Gale  E.  Flint 

Lester  W.  Frank 

Frank  H.  French 
♦J.  Kendall  Fullerton 

Arthur  E.  Gilbert,  Jr. 

O.  Vincent  Gustafson 

Robert  S.  Heald 

Holbrook  L.  Horton 

William  R.  Hutton 

Francis  E.  R.  Johnson 

J.  Bernard  Joseph 
♦Arthur  W.  Knight 

Harold  P.  Kranz 

Milton  F.  Labonte 

Edward  E.  Lane 

Daniel  R.  Leamy 

Frederick  J.  McGowan,  Jr. 

John  L.  Mooshian 

Andrew  J.  O'Connell 

Erold  F.  Pierce 

Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr. 

John  D.  Putnam 

Harold  G.  Richards 

Lawrence  Silverborg 

Lothar  A.  Sontag 
Richard  J.  Stone 

Wilford  A.  Sutthill 

Robert  L.  Towne 
George  J.  Tsatsis 
Francis  Wiesman 

♦Russell  C.  Wiley 

James  H.  Williams 


1930 
118  MEMBERS 
49  Contributors 
Henry  O.  Allen 


42% 


♦Carl  W.  Backstrom 

Albert  A.  Baron 

Robert  S.  Bennett 

David  K.  Bragg 

John  W.  Burt 

C.  Eugene  Center 

Charles  H.  Cole 

John  W.  Conley 

George  W.  Crossley 

Herbert  W.  Davis 

Edward  R.  Delano 

William  H.  Doyle 

Charles  R.  Fay 

Stanley  H.  Fillion 

Myrton  P.  Finney 

Thomas  F.  Flynn 

Walter  H.  French 

Ralph  H.  Gilbert 

Albert  M.  Goodnow 

Armando  E.  Greco 

Carmelo  S.  Greco 

Roger  T.  Griswold 

Lincoln  B.  Hathaway 

Herbert  F.  Hillis 

Robert  E.  Hollick 

Clifford  B.  Ives 

Francis  E.  Kennedy 
♦William  W.  Locke 

Percy  F.  Marsaw 
♦George  A.  Marston 

James  E.  McLoughlin 

Theodore  J.  Mesh 

Paul  B.  Morgan,  Jr. 

Albert  N.  Narter 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady 

Christos  L.  Orphanides 

John  R.  Parker 

George  E.  Perreault 

Fred  P.  Peters 

Arthur  F.  Pierce,  Jr. 

M.  Lawrence  Price 

Warren  R.  Purcell 

Philip  M.  Seal 

Harry  A.  Sorensen 

James  B.  Stearns,  Jr. 

George  W.  Stratton 

Vernon  E.  Wade 
♦Warren  C.  Whittum 

1931 
120  MEMBERS 

52  Contributors  43% 

Idof  Anderson,  Jr. 

Uuno  O.  Annala 

Robert  E.  Barrett 

Clifford  A.  Bergquist 

Joseph  J.  Bunevith 

Hilding  O.  Carlson 

Benjamin  R.  Chad  wick 

F.  Dudley  Chaffee 

Russell  V.  Corsini 

Harold  T.  Cutler 

Henry  N.  Deane 
♦Albert  M.  Demont 
♦Frank  S.  Finlayson 

Theodore  L.  Fish 

Paul  H.  Fittz 
♦John  E.  Fletcher 

Milton  D.  Gleason 
♦A.  Wallace  Gove 

William  Graham 

Allan  G.  Hall 

Raymond  E.  Hall 

George  M.  Hansen 

Jay  M.  Harpell 

Edwin  V.  Haskell 

Walker  T.  Hawley 

John  H.  Hinchliffe,  Jr. 

Ralph  Hodgkinson 

Frederic  C.  Holmes 

Juichi  Kaku 

Charles  A.  Kennedy 
♦David  D.  Kiley 

Otis  E.  Mace 

Oliver  B.  Merrill 


William  H.  Mill 

John  A.  Mott 
♦J.  Philip  Pierce 

Eben  H.  Rice 

Carl  F.  Sage 

Trueman  L.  Sanderson 

Nicholas  S.  Sculos 

George  W.  Smith 
♦Herbert  A.  Stewart 

Hurant  Tashjian 

Joseph  E.  Totas 
♦A.  Francis  Townsend 

Prescott  K.  Turner 

John  B.  Tuthill 

Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr. 

Charles  B.  Walker 

Carroll  N.  Whitaker 

Robert  S.  Williamson 

Charles  E.  Woodward 

1932 
113  MEMBERS 

47  Contributors  42% 

N.  Albert  Anderson 

William  W.  Asp 

Arthur  W.  Backgren 

Theodore  H.  Berard 

Fred  A.  Bickford 

Herbert  F.  Borg 

Walter  J.  Brosnan 
♦Dana  B.  Carleton 

Henry  E.  Carlson 

William  J.  Cullen 

Marcel  A.  E.  Delys 

C.  Milton  Ekberg 

Earle  E.  Green 

William  E.  Hanson 

Lambert  R.  Johnson 

Elliott  D.  Jones 

Howard  P.  Lekberg 

Eino  O.  Leppanen 

Lester  N.  Lintner 

Linn  M.  Lockwood 

Richard  H.  Martin 

Donald  J.  McGee 

Robert  W.  McMaster 

William  J.  Minnick 

Norman  Monks 

Paul  E.  Nelson 

John  Nizamoff 

Olof  W.  Nyquist 

Charles  S.  O'Brien,  Jr. 

Constantine  J.  G.  Orfanos 

Leonard  H.  Peters,  Jr. 

Irwin  W.  Peterson 

Edwin  L.  Pollard 
♦Henry  B.  Pratt,  Jr. 

Russell  D.  Purrington 

Donald  W.  Putnam 

William  F.  Reardon 

David  Rice 

Leon  D.  Skuropat 

Eugene  W.  Somerville 
♦Ellis  R.  Spaulding 
♦Francis  M.  Sullivan 

Sidney  Thune 

John  R.  Tinker 

Curtis  M.  White 

Frederick  F.  Whitford 

Clelan  G.  Winn 

1933 
124  MEMBERS 
59  Contributors  48% 

Edward  K.  Allen,  Jr. 
Alexander  L.  Alves 
♦William  A.  Anderson 
Gordon  E.  Barnes 
Ethan  D.  Bassett 
J.  Alfred  Bicknell 
Robert  W.  Blake 
Hugo  P.  Borgatti 
Charles  S.  Brewer 
Allen  L.  Brownlee 
Leo  Burwick 


William  H.  Clancey,  Jr. 

Raymond  B.  Crawford 

George  Davagian 

Thomas  E.  Decker 

Arthur  H.  Dixon 

Herman  W.  Dorn 

Cornelius  J.  Doyle 

J.  Roy  Driscoll 

John  J.  Dwyer 

Frank  L.  Eaton,  Jr. 

Albert  H.  Ensor 

Kenneth  M.  Farnsworth 

Robert  E.  Ferguson 

Alden  H.  FuUer 

Robert  W.  Fulton 
♦Kenneth  E.  Gleason 

Albert  B.  Glenn 
♦Gilbert  U.  Gustafson 

Linval  D.  Harvey 

Donald  W.  Haskins 

Leighton  Jackson 

Harry  T.  Jensen 
*Carl  L.  Johnson 

Carroll  M.  Johnson 

Edwin  L.  Johnson 
*Aram  Kalenian 

John  C.  Keefe,  Jr. 

Albert  J.  Laliberte 

Harvey  F.  Lorenzen 

George  W.  Lyman 

Richard  T.  Merrell 

Emil  C.  Ostlund 

H.  Edward  Perkins,  Jr. 

W:  Harvey  Perreault 

Robert  C.  Peterson 

A.  Elmer  Pihl 

Frederick  M.  Potter 

Wesley  B.  Reed 

Franklin  B.  Roberts 
*John  C.  L.  Shabeck,  Jr. 

Arthur  E.  Smith 

John  C.  Spence 
♦Chester  R.  Spielvogel 
♦Sumner  B.  Sweetser 

Walter  W.  Tuthill 
♦Jeremiah  H.  Vail 

Albert  S.  White,  Jr. 

Gordon  R.  Whittum 

1934 
114  MEMBERS 

53  Contributors  469 

♦Bertil  H.  Anderson 

Clarence  W.  Anderson 

Harold  B.  Bell 

Kenneth  E.  Bennett 

John  A.  Birch 

Joseph  A.  Bober 

John  H.  Bradbury 

William  E.  Burpee 

Allan  R.  Catheron 

Edward  D.  Chase 

Anthony  C.  Cowal 

Ernest  M.  Crowell 
♦Merritt  E.  Cutting 

Chester  G.  Dahlstrom 

Warren  H.  Davenport 

Charles  S.  Dayton,  Jr. 
•Dwight  J.  Dwinell 

Charles  J.  Egan 
♦Charles  S.  Frary,  Jr. 

Robert  S.  Grand 

Joseph  Haddad 

Carl  Hammarstrom 

Theodore  F.  Hammett 

Curtis  A.  Hedler 

Russell  P.  Hook 

Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr. 

George  Kalista 

John  H.  Keenan 

B.  Gustaf  Larson 

Luther  C.  Leavilt 
•Edward  R.  Markcrt 

Charles  W.  McBtroy 

William  P.  Mitnik 


Raymond  H.  Neubauer 
Shepard  B.  Palmer,  Jr. 
C.  Eugene  Parta 
Albert  T.  Phelps 
Louis  Press 

V.  Thomas  Ratkiewich,  Jr. 
Richard  W.  Rhodes 
Edmund  F.  Rothemich 
♦Everett  F.  Sellew 
Philip  C.  Sherburne 
Philip  W.  Stafford 
H.  Victor  Stenbeck 
Howard  E.  Stockwell 
Paul  J.  Sullivan 
Michael  G.  Tashjian 
Donald  C.  Vibber 
Arthur  B.  Wentzel 
Gordon  P.  Whitcomb 
Howard  A.  Whittum 
Humphrey  J.  Wrin 

1935 

113  MEMBERS 

55  Contributors  49% 

Marcus  Abelson 
♦Edward  J.  Abendschein 

George  W.  Axelby 

Carl  G.  Bergstrom 

Karl  H.  Bohaker 

Edwin  T.  Clinton 
*B.  Austin  Coates 

John  B.  Coyle 

C.  Marshall  Dann 

Maurice  E.  Day 

Phillip  S.  Dean 

William  A.  Dempsey 

Joseph  Glasser 

Martin  B.  Graham 

James  J.  Gushaw 

Preston  H.  Hadley,  Jr. 

Allan  F.  Hardy,  Jr. 

Francis  L.  Harrington 

James  K.  Healy 

Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr. 

Ladislaus  T.  Jodaitis 

Paul  S.  Krantz 

Roger  H.  Lawton 

Harold  A.  Leduc 

Lester  L.  Libby 

C.  Gordon  Lincoln 

Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr. 

George  A.  Mitchell 
♦Raymond  L.  Moeller 

John  J.  Molloy 

Homer  R.  Morrison 

Roland  L.  Nims 

William  C.  Potter 

Charles  C.  Puffer 

Raymond  J.  Quenneville 
♦Lionel  C.  Reed 

Emerson  J.  Robinson 

Victor  F.  P.  Sepavich 

Irving  Skeist 

Charles  S.  Smith 

Kingston  C.  Smith 

M.  Kent  Smith 

David  V.  Smyth 

Raymond  F.  Starrett 

William  R.  Steur 

Roy  O.  Swenson 
Gordon  S.  Swift 
J.  James  Tasillo 
Edward  Tavidian 
Robert  B.  Taylor 
Harold  K.  Vickery 
Douglas  L.  Watkins 
•Harvey  W.  While 
•Plummer  Wiley 
William  E.  Wyman 

1936 
109  MEMBERS 
47  Contributors  43% 

Hairy  T.  Anderson,  Jr. 


Robert  W.  Baker 

Leo  T.  Benoit 

Carl  F.  Benson 
♦John  R.  Brand 

Roger  W.  Bruce 

Harold  S.  Burr 

George  W.  Busby,  Jr. 

John  R.  Casler,  Jr. 

Perry  P.  Clark 

Frederick  F.  Cole 

Gordon  H.  Creamer 
♦Earl  M.  Curtis 

Walter  G.  Dahlstrom 

Donald  L.  Edmunds 

C.  James  Ethier 

Robert  Fowler,  Jr. 

Thomas  C.  Frary 
♦Scott  K.  Goodwin 
♦Vincent  P.  Grubbe 

Harold  F.  Henrickson 

L.  Brewster  Howard 

Leonard  W.  Johnson 

Richard  W.  Keenan 
♦Clinton  E.  Leech 

N.  Robert  Levine 
♦William  C.  Maine 

Robert  E.  Maynard 

John  T.  McGrath 
♦David  M.  Morley 

Reginald  A.  Morrill 

John  J.  O'Donnell 

Michael  C.  Rallis 

George  E.  Rocheford 

Wesley  F.  Rouse 

Jacob  A.  Sacks 

Louis  Sadick 

Alan  F.  Shepardson 

George  A.  Sherwin 

Burton  H.  Simons 

Benjamin  H.  Smith,  Jr. 

Stedman  W.  Smith 
♦John  H.  Thompson 

Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr. 

Abbott  D.  Wilcox 

Robert  C.  Wright 

Theodore  C.  Wyman 

1937 
111  MEMBERS 
48  Contributors  43% 

♦Erving  Arundale 

Philip  G.  Atwood 
♦Lawrence  K.  Barber 
Donald  L.  Beebe 

B.  Allen  Benjamin 
William  S.  Bushell 
Martin  G.  Caine 

♦William  E.  Carew,  Jr. 
William  C.  Clark 
John  H.  Covell,  Jr. 
Gordon  F.  Crowther 

C.  Chapin  Cutler 
Henry  C.  Dearborn 
Gordon  C.  Edwards 

♦Morton  S.  Fine 
♦Paul  R.  Glazier 
♦Laurence  F.  Granger 

Caleb  D.  Hammond 
♦Francis  S.  Harvey 

Daniel  J.  Hastings,  Jr. 

Ralph  H.  Holmes 

Harris  W.  Howland 

Stanley  L.  Hyman 
•A.  Hallier  Johnson 

Nathaniel  1.  Korman 

Carl  E.  Larson,  Jr. 

Arthur  J.  Lcary 

Ray  K.  Linsliv 

Richard  J.  Lymi  n 
•Francis  H.  Marcl.und 

•  l"hn  F.  McGlnnls 

Holland  W.  McMurphy 

Samuel  W.  Mcncow 

Charles  R.  Michel 


Carl  S.  Otto 
Chandler  P.  Pierce 
A.  Hamilton  Powell 
Foster  C.  Powers 
W.  Robert  Powers 
William  Price 
Oliver  H.  Raine 
J.  Morrison  Smith 
Arthur  J.  Staples 
Carleton  E.  P.  Vinal 
Talbot  F.  Wentworth 
John  B.  Willard 
Dana  W.  Woodward 
William  W.  Worthley 

1938 
136  MEMBERS 

56  Contributors  41% 

♦Robert  B.  Abbe 

Robert  O.  Alexander 

Samuel  A.  Alukas 

Gilbert  G.  Ashwell 

Paul  H.  Bergstrom 

Eugene  Bertozzi,  Jr. 
♦Charles  C.  Bonin 
*J.  Randolph  Buck 

Frederick  J.  Burg 
♦Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr. 

George  B.  Cattermole 

Donald  B.  Clark 
♦Richard  W.  Cloues 
♦Leo  J.  Cronin 

Robert  P.  Day 

Albert  L.  Delude,  Jr. 

Richard  J.  Donovan 
♦Richard  M.  Elliott 

Robert  A.  Evans 

Neil  A.  Fitzgerald 

Norman  M.  Gamache 

Thomas  B.  Graham 

Perry  F.  Grenon 

Allen  H.  Gridley,  Jr. 

Ernest  E.  Gustafson 

Howard  W.  Haynes 

William  D.  Holcomb 

Raymond  K.  Houston 

Walter  J.  Howard 

Francis  H.  Jenkins 

Walter  E.  Knapp 

Peter  P.  Koliss 

Albert  J.  Kullas 

M.  Leonard  Kuniholm 

John  G.  Lawrence 

Bernard  A.  Lovelace 

A.  George  Mallis 

Daniel  G.  Mazur 

Richard  G.  Munson 

Robert  W.  O'Brien 

Raymond  J.  Perreault 

Donald  F.  Pethybridge 

Arnct  L.  Powell 

Maurice  Pressman 

Henry  M.  Ritz 

Malcolm  G.  Safford 

Edward  A.  Sawtell 
John  B.  Scalzi 

Philip  R.  Scavcr 
Dana  D.  Stratton 

Francis  B.  Swenson 
•Robert  M.  Taft 
Raymond  H.  Tolman 
Paul  H.  Vaughun 
Murray  C.  Wilson 
Francis  L.  Witkege 

1939 
138  MEMBERS 
54  Contributors  :<:p  . 

•Walter  L.  Abel 
Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr. 
Roland  N.  Anderson 
John  A.  Backcs 
•Jack  F.  Boyd 
Harrison  K.  Brown 


*Donald  M.  Burness 

John  K.  Busada 
*Wilder  R.  Carson 
♦Malcolm  R.  Chandler 

Allan  H.  Chase 

Arthur  N.  Cooley 

Ralph  E.  Dudley 

Floyd  J.  Folmsbee 

George  C.  Graham,  Jr. 

Jacob  J.  Hagopian 

John  C.  Harvey,  Jr. 
♦John  G.  Hollick 
*Donald  E.  Houser 

John  W.  Hughes 

Harold  W.  Humphrey,  Jr. 
♦David  H.  Hunt 

Roger  L.  Iffland 

Gleason  W.  Jewett 

Samuel  B.  Kaplan 

Oiva  J.  Kama 

William  L.  Kay 
*Carl  A.  Keyser 

Philip  A.  Kulin 

John  H.  Lancaster 

Leonard  B.  Landall 

Albert  M.  Lavan 

Carl  W.  Lewin 

Carl  J.  Lindegren,  Jr. 
♦Arthur  H.  Mallon 

Robert  W.  Martin 
♦David  McEwan 

Ward  D.  Messimer 

Robert  B.  Mirick 

Robert  A.  Morse 

Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr. 

Elmer  E.  Nutting 

C.  Kenneth  Olson 

Bradford  W.  Ordway 

Frederick  S.  Pyne 

Edward  J.  Roszko 
♦Billie  A.  Schmidt 

Norman  W.  Stewart 
♦Frans  E.  Strandberg 

Louis  E.  Stratton 

Ernest  L.  Sykes 
♦Charles  W.  Thulin 
Harold  E.  White 
Richard  B.  Wilson 

1940 
155  MEMBERS 
57  Contributors  379 

Clayton  H.  Allen 
♦Donald  R.  Bates 
George  S.  Bingham 
Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell 
Ronald  S.  Brand 
William  S.  Brooks 
Malcolm  S.  Burton 
Donald  S.  Chatfield 
Edward  D.  Cross 
Frank  J.  Delany 
Arthur  S.  Dinsmore 
Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 
♦Raymond  J.  Forkey 
♦Kenneth  C.  Fraser 
Howard  G.  Freeman 
W.  Clark  Goodchild,  Jr. 
Willard  T.  Gove 
♦Frank  G.  Gustafson 
♦Edward  E.  J.  Hafey 
♦Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr. 

Franklin  D.  Hayes 
♦Robert  W.  Hewey 

Robert  E.  Higgs 
♦Albert  E.  HoweU,  Jr. 
Harding  B.  Jenkins 
Fritz  E.  Johanson 
Benedict  K.  Kaveckas 
Stanley  W.  Kimball 
Arthur  R.  Koerber 
David  A.  Kuniholm 
John  A.  Leach,  Jr. 
Vernon  J.  Liberty 
♦Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 


♦Noel  R.  Maleady 

Zareh  Martin 

Kenneth  H.  McClure 

Richard  T.  Messinger 

Lawrence  C.  Neale 

Henry  J.  Paulsen 
♦John  H.  Peters,  III 

Bruce  G.  Potter 
♦Milton  E.  Ross 

Robert  S.  Roulston 

Alden  T.  Roys 

M.  Michael  Sadick 

S.  Merrill  Skeist 

Everett  P.  Smith 

Joseph  V.  Smolinski 

Walter  H.  Sodano 

Frank  B.  Stevenson 

Francis  E.  Stone 
♦Lawrence  R.  Sullivan 

Robinson  M.  Swift 

Stanley  M.  Terry 

Daniel  W.  von  Bremen,  Jr. 

Randall  Whitehead 

David  B.  Zipser 

1941 
154  MEMBERS 
52  Contributors  34% 

Donald  T.  Atkinson 
Benjamin  S.  Bean 
William  Bosyk 
Earle  K.  Boyd 
Irving  A.  Breger 
William  J.  Carroll,  Jr. 
Paul  A.  Carullo 
♦Frederick  B.  Chamberlin 
Sidney  W.  Clark 
George  A.  Cowan 
Thomas  R.  Derrico 
Kenneth  R.  Dresser 
James  C.  Ferguson 
George  F.  George 
Lloyd  E.  Greenwood 
Marvin  Handleman 
James  H.  Hinman 
F.  Harold  Holland,  Jr. 
Stephen  Horbal 
Joseph  P.  Jurga 
Harry  D.  Kingsley 
♦Norman  G.  Klaucke 
Melvin  H.  Knapp 
George  W.  Knauff 
Alexander  G.  Lajoie,  Jr. 
Frank  R.  Lindberg 
James  E.  McGinnis 

F.  Douglas  McKeown 
Herman  Medwin 
♦Robert  A.  Muir 

N.  Aaron  Naboicheck 

Paul  G.  Nystrom 

Norman  H.  Osgood 

Hilliard  W.  Paige 

Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr. 
♦Russell  W.  Parks 

George  K.  Peck 

Stannard  M.  Potter 

Richard  G.  Ramsdell 

Stanley  S.  Ribb 
♦William  C.  Richardson 

Harold  E.  Roberton,  Jr. 

William  P.  Simmons 

Charles  O.  Smith 
♦Donald  E.  Smith 

Robert  W.  Tuller 

Anton  J.  West,  Sr. 

Leonard  H.  White 

Berkeley  Williams,  Jr. 
♦Robert  F.  Wilson 
♦Alfred  E.  Winslow 

F.  William  Ziegler 

1942 
161  MEMBERS 
65  Contributors  40% 

♦Robert  E.  Allen 


Jonathan  B.  Allured 

E.  Curtis  Ambler 
William  L.  Ames 
Homer  R.  Arey 
Albert  S.  Ashmead 
John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr. 
Robert  M.  Bendett 

♦Norman  C.  Bergstrom 

Delbert  A.  Betterley 
♦Gerald  J.  Bibeault 

Joseph  W.  Blaine,  Jr. 

Lester  A.  Bolton 

Roy  F.  Bourgault 

Robert  C.  Chaffe,  Jr. 

Joseph  N.  Christian 

Charles  W.  Charles 
♦Harold  L.  Crane 

Harold  E.  Crosier,  Jr. 

Wilbur  H.  Day 

Walter  K.  Deacon 
♦Paul  C.  Disario,  Jr. 

Eric  W.  Essen 

James  Fernane 

John  Ford,  Jr. 

Ralph  G.  Fritch 

Clinton  A.  Gerlach 

Haskell  Ginns 

Herbert  M.  Goodman 

Warren  G.  Harding 

Philip  J.  Hastings 

Robert  H.  Hodges 

Robert  L.  Holden 
♦Peter  P.  Holz 

William  S.  Jackson,  Jr. 

Norman  A.  Kerr 

Richard  H.  Kimball,  Jr. 

A.  Cline  Mendelsohn 

Frederic  C.  Merriam 

F.  Gordon  Merrill 
Alexander  Mikulich 
Winthrop  R.  Munyan 
Francis  J.  Oneglia 
Rodney  G.  Paige 

♦Robert  W.  Pease 

Russell  C.  Proctor,  Jr. 
♦Gordon  H.  Raymond 
♦James  F.  Robjent 
♦John  E.  Rogerson 

Adolph  A.  Salminen 
♦Elton  J.  Sceggel 

Robert  A.  Schultheiss 

Leonard  I.  Smith 

George  H.  Sprague,  Jr. 

Victor  H.  Thulin 
♦Noel  Totti,  Jr. 

Howard  C.  Warren 

J.  Richard  Weiss,  Jr. 

Samuel  W.  Williams,  Jr. 

Norman  A.  Wilson 

William  C.  Woods,  Jr. 

John  B.  Wright 

Paul  C.  Yankauskas 
♦Warren  B.  Zepp 

1943 
140  MEMBERS 

56  Contributors  40% 

Everett  J.  Ambrose,  Jr. 

Robert  A.  Bierweiler 
♦Harold  W.  Brandes 

Hugh  M.  Brautigam 

Nelson  M.  Calkins,  Jr. 
♦Edwin  C.  Campbell 

Warren  H.  Chaffee 

Henry  C.  Durick,  Jr. 
♦Jackson  L.  Durkee 
♦Richard  F.  Dyer 
♦Lee  P.  Farnsworth 

Walter  J.  Farrell,  Jr. 
♦J.  Perry  Fraser 

George  W.  Golding,  Jr. 
♦Robert  E.  Gordon 

Philip  J.  Gow 

Arthur  V.  Grazulis 

Carl  E.  Hartbower 


♦Leonard  Hershoff 

Franklin  K.  Holbrook 

John  W.  Huckins 

Richard  Jamron 

Joseph  M.  Jolda 

Walter  E.  Kaskan 

Joseph  F.  Kawzowicz 

Averill  S.  Keith 
♦Friend  H.  Kierstead,  Jr. 
♦Russell  L.  King 
♦Victor  E.  Kohman 

Thomas  P.  Landers 

Arthur  E.  Lindroos 

John  McLay,  Jr. 

Arthur  H.  Medine,  Jr. 
♦Behrends  Messer,  Jr. 

S.  Bailey  Norton,  Jr. 

Earl  G.  Page,  Jr. 

Robert  A.  Painter 

James  H.  Parliman 

Edward  H.  Peterson 
♦James  J.  Pezza 

Leon  H.  Rice 

Donald  M.  Roun 
♦Donald  H.  Russell 

Alan  N.  Sanderson 

Robert  P.  Seaton 
♦Richard  B.  Shaw 

Bruce  E.  Smyth 
♦Raymond  W.  Southworth 

George  E.  Stannard 

Frank  Szel 
♦William  W.  Tunnichffe 

Alfred  Voedisch,  Jr, 

Pierre  Volkmar 

Rollin  M.  Wheeler 

Richard  T.  Whitcomb 

Edward  C.  White 

1944 
157  MEMBERS 

51  Contributors  32% 

♦Gordon  C.  Anderson 

Herbert  Asher 

Roy  E.  Baharian 

Francis  L.  Barry 

C.  Edward  Bean 
♦John  A.  Bjork 
♦Norman  S.  Blodgett 

Thomas  A.  Bombicino 

Philip  P.  Brown 
♦Donald  E.  Buser 

Charles  E.  Cannon 
♦Richard  A.  Carson 

George  W.  Collins 

Charles  S.  Cooper 

Lee  G.  Cordier 

Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr. 

Robert  E.  Fay 

David  M.  Field 

Roger  F.  French 

Irving  B.  Gerber 

David  L.  Haight 

Bruce  D.  Hainsworth 
♦Raymond  E.  Herzog 

Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr. 

Richard  G.  Holden 

Leonard  Israel 
♦Eriing  Lagerholm 

John  W.  Lebourveau 

Lloyd  G.  Mann 

Joseph  S.  Marcus 
♦Vernon  A.  McLaskey 

Fred  S.  Moulton 
♦John  W.  Patterson 

Robert  F.  Petersen 

C.  Raymond  Peterson 

Martin  T.  Pierson 

William  E.  Powers,  Jr. 

Paul  I.  Pressel 

William  L.  Raymond,  Jr. 

L.  Howard  Reagan 
♦John  J.  Robinson 

Miles  I.  Roth 

Richard  W.  Russell 


Charles  P.  Stowell 

Warner  H.  Tabor 

Charles  C.  Tanona 

Christopher  T.  Terpo 
*John  G.  Underhill 

Wallace  A  Underwood 
*John  N.  Wholean 

Franklyn  Williams 

1945 

103  MEMBERS 

55  Contributors  53% 

Frank  C.  Baginski 
Edwin  G.  Baldwin 

John  C.  Bayer 

Edward  C.  Berndt,  Jr. 
♦Albert  C.  Berry 

James  E.  Breed 

Bradford  Brightman,  Jr. 

Robert  M.  Buck 
♦Joseph  D.  Carrabino 

Carl  C.  Clark 

James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr. 

Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr. 

Stanley  R.  Cross,  Jr. 
♦William  P.  Densmore 

Edward  J.  Dolan 

Robert  E.  Duffy 

Harris  J.  Dufresne 

Robert  M.  Edgerly 
♦Richard  S.  Fitts 

Warren  H.  Fitzer 
♦Harold  D.  Fleit 

John  W.  Fondahl 

Anson  C.  Fyler 

Howard  D.  Gerring 

Olavi  H.  Halttunen 

John  T.  E.  Hegeman 

Philip  A.  Henning 

Burton  L.  Hinman,  Jr. 

William  C.  Howard,  Jr. 

John  P.  Hyde 

Russell  E.  Jenkins 

Edwin  S.  Johanson 

Charles  H.  Johnson 

Philip  B.  Jones 
♦Franklin  S.  June 
♦Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

Paul  N.  Kokulis 

Ernest  R.  Kretzmer 

Frederick  J.  Levitsky 
♦Eugene  C.  Logan 
♦Charles  A.  Morse,  Jr. 

Robert  E.  Powers 

John  J.  Quinlan 

Roger  P.  Roberge 

Robert  E.  Scott 

Elmer  B.  Severs,  Jr. 

Frank  J.  Stefanov 

Edward  I.  Swanson 

Philip  V.  Tarr,  Jr. 

John  A.  Templeton 

Mitchell  J.  Tenerowicz 

Stanley  B.  Thomson 

Joseph  F.  Tivnan,  Jr. 
♦George  V.  Uihlein,  Jr. 
♦Warren  H.  WUlard 

1946 
126  MEMBERS 

27  Contributors  21% 

Robert  C.  Appenzeller 

John  Lott  Brown 

Nestor  Brown,  Jr. 
♦Roger  H.  Brown 

James  Bush,  Jr. 

Rodney  S.  Chase 

George  E.  Comstock,  III 

Truman  S.  Dayton 
•AlpheusM.  Farnsworth 

David  L.  Hall 

Jackson  L.  Hayman 
♦Joseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr. 

Richard  C.  Lawton 

Calvin  F.  Long 


♦James  H.  Maloney,  Jr. 

Stanley  W.  Morris 
♦Norman  W.  Padden 

Edward  A.  Pendleton 

William  R.  Potter 

Albert  H.  Rawdon,  Jr. 
♦J.  Larry  Stewart 

David  W.  Swicker 
♦Roland  W.  Ure,  Jr. 

Irving  R.  Versoy,  Jr. 
♦Davis  S.  Watson 

Charles  F.  Whitcomb 

Thomas  M.  Zajac 

1946B 
111  MEMBERS 

20  Contributors  18% 

Theodore  A.  Balaska 

William  R.  Bingham 

James  R.  Davis 

Robert  B.  Davis 

Donald  L.  D eland 

John  P.  Gagliardo 
♦Howard  L.  Gelin 

John  N.  Hartwell 

Garabed  Hovhanesian 

Foster  Jacobs 

Arvid  S.  Johnson,  Jr. 
♦Wilbur  C.  Jones 

Alan  Kennedy 
♦Peter  B.  Myers 
♦Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr. 

John  E.  Runninger 

Edward  H.  Smith 

Donald  A.  Soorian 

Delbert  E.  Walton 

John  L.  Wilki,  Jr. 

1946C 

12  MEMBERS 
4  Contributors  33% 

Joseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr, 
John  H.  Knibb,  Jr. 
Cecil  Walton,  Jr. 
♦John  E.  Wilson 

1946D 

56  MEMBERS 

18  Contributors  32% 

Allen  Breed 
♦George  Button,  II 

Leslie  Flood 

Walter  J.  Grimala 

Joseph  J.  Hearne 

William  P.  Jeagle 
♦John  E.  Laffey 

John  Lee 

Joseph  P.  Manna 
♦Frank  L.  Mazzone 

Peter  M.  McKinley 

John  C.  Meade 

Manuel  Renasco 

Elmer  S.  Sachse 

George  W.  Schott 

Robert  W.  Schramm 

Adelbert  W.  Whitman 

David  J.  Wright 

1947 
75  MEMBERS 

21  Contributors  28% 

♦Robert  E.  Begley 

Henry  J.  Bove 

Wilfred  L.  Derocher,  Jr. 

Lawrence  T.  Garnett 

Leo  W.  F.  Geary 
•Allan  Gla/.er 

John  P.  Harding,  Jr. 

Daniel  W.  KnoU 

Raymond  J.  Lafcrriere 

Jacques  L.  Mctenicr 

Teddy  J.  Moruwskl 

Paul  D.  O'DonncIl 

William  J.  Rice 


Samuel  Ringel 
Walter  A.  Skers 
Edward  T.  Swierz 
Kenneth  H.  Truesdell 
Milford  R.  Van  Dusen 
John  H.  Williams,  Jr. 
Roger  B.  Williams,  Jr. 
Vincent  A.  Zike 

1948 
181  MEMBERS 

62  Contributors  52% 

George  W.  Allen 

Paul  T.  Anderson 
♦David  L.  Anthony 

Robert  E.  Beauregard 
♦William  A.  Beers 

Lennart  M.  Berg 

Edward  H.  Coburn,  Jr. 
♦Samuel  W.  Cocks 

John  J.  Concordia 
♦William  D.  Coulopoulos 

Norman  L.  Diegoli 

Edmund  C.  Dowse,  Jr. 

Edmund  J.  Eager 

WUlard  E.  Estey 
♦Paul  E.  Evans 
♦Robert  G.  Ferguson 
♦Niel  I.  Fishman 

Donald  E.  Flohr 
♦Frederick  A.  Gammans 

Albert  S.  Goldberg 

Malcolm  G.  Gordon 

Harold  B.  Guerci 

Sameer  S.  Hassan 
♦Thomas  D.  Hess 

Lawrence  F.  Hine 

Frank  S.  Holby 
♦Richard  K.  Home 
♦Robert  H.  Houghton 
♦Norman  J.  Jardine 

Vincent  P.  Juselis 

Louis  Katz 
♦Lynwood  W.  Lentell 

Robert  M.  Lerner 

Charles  L.  Loveridge,  Jr. 

Lemuel  A.  W.  Manchester 
♦James  G.  McKernan 
♦Albert  J.  Merlini 
♦Allen  M.  Mintz 

Richard  W.  Morse 

James  M.  Mullarkey 

Robert  E.  Nowell 
♦Norman  R.  Olson 

Alan  R.  Pearlman 

Arthur  L.  Pike 

Clark  L.  Poland 
♦Edward  J.  Powers 
♦Charles  D.  Rehrig 

Alan  K.  Riedel 

Charles  H.  Rollins 

Edmund  J.  Salate 

Kenneth  E.  Scott 
♦Wayne  A.  Shafer,  Jr. 
♦Daniel  H.  Sheingold 
♦Bernard  Siegel 

Sturgis  A.  Sobin 
♦Albert  H.  Soloway 

Alfred  C.  Syiek 

Richard  L.  Tracy 

Irwin  T.  Vanderhoof 

David  K.  Weiner 

1949 
240  MEMBERS 

72  Contributors  .1(1' 

James  S.  Adams 

Charles  C.  Allen 
•  Walter  D.  Allen,  Jr. 
•Karl  R.  Berggrcn,  Jr. 

I'ratiris  J.  Bigda 

Gordon  S.  Brandt's 

Lawrence  C.  Brautlgam 

Richard  W.  Brown 

Philip  G.  Buffinton 


♦Walter  J.  Charow 

Howard  R.  Cheney,  Jr. 
♦Thomas  J.  Coonan,  III 
♦Norman  E.  Cotnoir 

Richard  J.  Coughlin 

Paul  D.  Curran 
♦Walter  G.  Dick 

Paul  R.  Dulong 

Franklin  P.  Emerson 
♦Malcolm  E.  Ferson 

Orlando  W.  Foss,  Jr. 

Samuel  E.  Franc,  Jr. 
♦James  M.  Genser 

Gerald  H.  Gleason 

David  Goldstein 

Robert  N.  Gowing 

J.  George  Gregory 

George  K.  Howe 
♦William  A.  Jacques 
♦Peter  A.  Kahn 
♦Peter  Kalil 

Robert  T.  Kesseli 

Charles  T.  Layton 

Elzear  J.  Lemieux 

Alfred  L.  Letourneau 

Daniel  L.  Lintz 

John  I.  Logan 

Edward  A.  Luiz 

John  W.  Luoma 
♦Sidney  Madwed 

William  C.  Marcoux 

Daniel  L.  McQuillan 

Harold  A.  Melden,  Jr. 

Robert  E.  Miller,  Jr. 

Harry  H.  Mochon,  Jr. 

Henry  G.  Mogensen,  Jr. 
♦Henry  J.  Oletz,  Jr. 
♦James  F.  O'Regan 

Harvey  L.  Pastan 
♦Albin  O.  Pearson 
♦William  J.  Ploran 

Mack  J.  Prince 

Robert  K.  Quattrochi 

Edward  W.  Randall 

Raymond  J.  Remillard 

Hugh  M.  Robinson 

Smil  Ruhman 

Ellsworth  M.  Sammet 

Donald  R.  Sanders 

Stanley  E.  Sherman 
♦Carrol  G.  Smith 

Jeremy  W.  Smith 

Stephen  J.  Spencer 
♦Alfred  Strogoff 

Haig  E.  Tashjian 
♦Donald  Taylor 

Samuel  E.  Torrey 

Max  E.  Underwood 

Harvey  E.  Vigneault 

Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr. 

John  J.  Wheeler 

John  H.  Williams 

James  D.  Wilson 

1950 
212  MEMBERS 

67  Contributors  32% 

Carl  D.  Ahlstrom 

Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr. 

Norman  E.  Baker 

George  S.  Barna,  Jr. 

Willard  L.  Bowcn.  Ill 

John  F.  Brierly 
•John  P.  Burgurclla 
•Joseph  J.  Burgarclt.i 

Richard  H.  Carlson 

Edgar  B.  Carpenter 
•William  B.  Carpenter 

Harvey  W.  Currier 

Everett  S.  Child,  Jr. 
•Henry  s.  Coe,  Jr. 

Richard  Conncll 

Neil  J.  Crowley 
•  Henry  S.  C.  Cummings,  Jr. 

David  W.  Danielson 


Donald  E.  Deming 
*Donald  W.  Dodge 

George  E.  Engman 

William  F.  Fitzmaurice 

Stanley  Friedman 

Donald  W.  Giles 

Irwin  L.  Goodchild,  Jr. 

Fred  W.  Grant,  Jr. 

William  C.  Griggs 
*R.  Reed  Grimwade 

Robert  J.  Hallisey 

Frank  W.  Harding,  III 

Daniel  J.  Harrington,  Jr. 

Bartlett  H.  Hastings 

Richard  E.  Hathaway 

Sumner  W.  Herman 

David  J.  Hudson 

Richard  N.  Jones 
*Arthur  W.  Joyce,  Jr. 

Edmond  H.  Judd 
♦Francis  E.  Kearney 

G.  Willard  King,  Jr. 
•Christy  D.  Lambert 

Robert  B.  Larocque 

Stuart  G.  Leonard,  Jr. 

John  C.  Margo,  Jr. 

Paul  D.  May 

Robert  L.  Moison 

Edmund  L.  Nichols 

Helge  V.  Nordstrom 

Russell  N orris 

Philip  J.  Nyquist 

Richard  C.  Olson 

Robert  C.  Proctor,  Jr. 

Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr. 
*Eli  S.  Sanderson 

Walter  C.  Scanlon 

Harold  A.  Schmucki 
*Robert  E.  Smith 

Robert  F.  Stewart 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr. 

Edmond  T.  Suydam 

Edward  J.  Sydor 

John  R.  Taylor 

Donald  W.  Thompson 

Robert  J.  Van  Amburgh 

Leo  J.  Verrelli 

Jeremy  Welts 

William  D.  Young 

1951 
193  MEMBERS 

67  Contributors  35% 

Warner  S.  Adams 
*G.  Albert  Anderson 
*Ralph  W.  Auerbach,  Jr. 
*Bruce  M.  Bailey 

Mark  E.  Baker 
*Leon  H.  Bassett 

Walter  H.  Bretthauer,  Jr. 

Ashton  B.  Brown 

Marshall  E.  Brown 

Robert  A.  Buseh 

Bernard  D.  Callahan 

Robert  N.  Cochran 

Richard  A.  Coffey,  Jr. 

Donald  J.  Corey 

Charles  G.  Darrell 

John  A.  Dillon,  Jr. 
*H.  Stuart  Dodge 

Richard  L.  Erickson 

Rafael  R.  Gabarro 

Gary  Geissler 
*John  C.  George 

Arthur  H.  Gerald,  Jr. 
*Aime  J.  Grenier 

Halsey  E.  Griswold 
*  William  H.  Haslett,  Jr. 

Richard  E.  Howard 
*Harvey  L.  Howell 

Carl  E.  Johnson 

Edmund  G.  Johnson 

Thomas  M.  June 

Edward  A.  Kacmarcik 
John  R.  Keefe,  Jr. 


Walter  J.  Kolodne 

Roderic  C.  Lancey 
•Leo  E.  Lemere,  Jr. 
*Edward  L.  Lewis 

Albert  H.  Lorentzen 

Robert  M.  Luce 
*Carl  J.  Luz,  Jr. 

Frank  A.  MacPherson 

Thomas  A.  McComiskey 
*WilUam  J.  McNeil 
*Philip  Michelman 

Stanley  L.  Miller 

Edward  C.  Moroney,  Jr. 
*Charles  F.  Mulrenan 
*Duncan  W.  Munro 

Constantino  Mustakis 

Edwin  H.  Nahikian 
•Roy  H.  Olson 

Irving  F.  Orrell,  Jr. 
•Owen  Ott 

John  L.  Reid 
•James  E.  Rich 
•Robert  W.  Ripley 
•Robert  W.  Rodier 

Donald  E.  Sands 

Donald  A.  Sasek 
•Kurt  A.  Schneider 

Lawrence  F.  Scrnto 

Vartkes  Sohigian 

A.  William  Spencer 

Donald  F.  Stockwell 
•Roger  W.  Swanson 

Dick  van  den  Berge 
•Donald  K.  White 
•Robert  C.  Wolff 

1952 
173  MEMBERS 

60  Contributors 

Donald  H.  Adams 

Everett  E.  Bagley 

Richard  G.  Bennett 
•Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz 

Albert  N.  Brauer 

Frank  L.  Briggs 

Richard  E.  Cavanaugh 
•Charles  F.  Crathern,  III 

Richard  K.  Davenport 

John  W.  Diachenko 

Monroe  M.  Dickinson,  Jr. 
•Michael  J.  Essex,  Jr. 
•David  R.  Fairbanks 

John  E.  Feldsine,  Jr. 

Edward  M.  Felkel 
•Ray  N.  Fenno 

Richard  T.  Gates 

Richard  C.  Gillette 
•Stuart  R.  Hathaway 

Edward  A.  Hjerpe,  Jr. 

Walter  F.  Jaros,  Jr. 
•George  Jeas 
•Joseph  Jiunnies 
•Robert  D.  Johnson 

Chester  S.  Kolaczyk 

Donald  M.  Krauss 

David  A.  Kujala 

Kenneth  T.  Lang 
•Elliott  W.  Lewis 

Sueloong  P.  Li 

Lester  W.  Lloyd,  Jr. 

Joseph  D.  Lojewski 

Leo  O.  Lutz 

John  M.  Maljanian 

William  T.  Mehalick 
•Everett  B.  Palmer 

George  W.  Randig 

H.  Burton  Rendall. 

Warren  W.  Root 
•Walter  H.  Rothman 

Allan  J.  Rowe 

George  M.  Seidel 

Henry  Shapiro 

Bruce  N.  Smith 
*F.  Patterson  Smith 

Roland  R.  St.  Louis 


Donald  H.  Stewart 

Robert  E.  Sullivan 

Allan  R.  Thayer 

Ronald  E.  Thompson 
•Charles  W.  Thrower 

Charles  P.  Toscano 

John  M.  Tracy 
•Alden  F.  Tucker 
•Robert  F.  Turek 

Edgar  L.  Van  Cott,  Jr. 

Roland  E.  Walker 
•George  F.  Whittle 
•Richard  B.  Will 
•Gordon  C.  Willard 

1953 
174  MEMBERS 

50  Contributors  29% 

Stephen  J.  Abrams 
•David  E.  Beach 
•Robert  E.  Behringer 
•John  R.  Black 

Henry  J.  Camosse 

Donald  R.  Campbell 

Richard  R.  Carlson 
•Richard  A.  Davis 
•Charles  O.  Dechand 
•Ralph  J.  DiGiovanni 
•David  M.  Elovitz 

Charles  D.  Flanagan 

John  E.  Flynn 
•Kendall  F.  Forsberg 

John  H.  Gearin,  Jr. 

Richard  J.  Hall 

David  B.  Hallock 

Sidney  R.  Harvey 

David  B.  Hathaway 

Randall  B.  Hay  don 
35%  *Michael  N.  Hoechstetter 

Thomas  C.  Hollocher,  Jr. 

David  G.  Holmes 

Joseph  A.  Holmes 
•David  S.  Jenney 

D.  Alden  Johnson 

Philip  J.  Kaminsky 

Walter  B.  Lueft 
•Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr. 

Orren  B.  McKnight,  Jr. 

Herbert  P.  Narbeshuber 

Thomas  P.  O'Connor 

Raymond  L.  Peterson 

G.  Raymond  Polen 

Donald  G.  Post 

Thomas  H.  Rothwell 
•Eugene  L.  Rubin 
•Anthony  J.  Ruksnaitis 

Leo  A.  Salmen 

Kenneth  W.  Shiatte 
•Philip  E.  Simon,  Jr. 

Paul  W.  Snyder,  Jr. 

Hubert  G.  Stanton,  Jr, 

Henry  L.  Sundberg,  Jr. 

Donald  W.  Sundstrom 

Donald  P.  Taylor 
•David  T.  Van  Covem 

William  M.  Walsh 

Robert  C.  Woodward 

Michael  S.  Zucker 

1954 
143  MEMBERS 

47  Contributors  33% 

•Paul  R.  Alasso 
•Owen  F.  Allen 

David  A.  Bisson 

W.  Richard  Byrnes 

Harry  F.  ChapeU 

Allan  J.  Costantin 
•Walter  H.  Dziura 

Joseph  J.  Fratino 

Francis  J.  Gamari 

David  F.  Gilbert 
•George  A.  Gingras 

Carl  A.  Hammar 

Roy  E.  Hayward,  Jr. 


Joachim  Herz 
•Leigh  H.  Hickcox 

George  Idlis 

Jaak  Jurison 

George  H.  Kay,  Jr. 

Thomas  C.  Kee 

Jerome  W.  Kilburne 

Joseph  S.  King 
•Richard  D.  Kirk 

Gary  A.  Kunkel 

Richard  W.  Lindquist 

S.  Paul  London 
•Russell  R.  Lussier 
•Douglas  B.  MacLaren 

John  F.  Malloy,  Jr. 
•Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr. 

Howard  I.  Nelson 

Werner  M.  Neupert 
•Arthur  E.  Nichols,  Jr. 
•Fabian  Pinkham 
•Richard  D.  Popp 

George  D.  Ramig 

Walter  A.  Reibling 

Donald  E.  Ross 

William  A.  Seubert 
•Edwin  Shivell 
•Walter  M.  Stewart 

Wilfred  F.  Taylor 
•Otto  A.  Wahlrab 
•Howard  P.  Whittle 

In  Memoriam,  Robert  N.  Eldredge 

1955 
134  MEMBERS 

36  Contributors  27% 

•Gerald  R.  Backlund 

Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 

Gedney  B.  Brown 
•Paul  W.  Brown,  Jr. 

Edward  M.  Cahill 

John  C.  Calhoun 

Dean  M.  Carlson 

David  S.  Dayton 

Lawrence  F.  Dennis 

Alan  W.  Ede 

John  E.  Edfors 
•Louis  A.  Gaumond 

Hartley  T.  Grandin,  Jr. 

Daniel  A.  Grant,  Jr. 

Lawrence  H.  Henschel 
•Robert  W.  Holden 

Peter  H.  Horstmann 

Norman  M.  Lawrence 

Philip  Lincoln 

Richard  A.  Loomis 

Richard  J.  Lucey 
•Charles  F.  McDonough 

Donald  M.  McNamara 

Ralph  K.  Mongeon,  Jr. 

Peter  S.  Morgan 
•Edwin  F.  Nesman 

Robert  E.  Olson 

Walter  B.  Power,  III 

Richard  A.  Rader 

Reynald  J.  Sansoucy 

Harold  S.  Sauer 
•Robert  J.  Schultz 
•Edward  P.  Simonian 

Allan  R.  Twitchell 
•Charles  F.  Walters 

Gordon  E.  Walters 

1956 
152  MEMBERS 

39  Contributors  26% 

Christian  S.  Baehrecke 

Richard  N.  Bazinet 

Paul  A.  Cnossen 
•Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr. 
•Christopher  R.  Collins 

Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr. 

James  L.  Forand 

James  W.  Green 

Raymond  R.  Hagglund 

Arnold  M.  Hall 


Charles  R.  Healy 
Robert  R.  Heath 

*Allan  R.  Hunderup 

*John  L.  Hyde,  II 
William  A.  Johnson 
William  F.  Jordan,  Jr. 
Arthur  G.  Kennard 
Hans  H.  Koehl 
Vilho  A.  Lucander 
Raymond  J.  Lussier 
Richard  J.  McBride 
John  M.  McHugh 
Robert  E.  Mulno 
John  M.  Nash 

♦Henry  W.  Nowick 
Eric  Ostergaard 
Albert  Palmero 
Joseph  F.  Paparella 
David  A.  Pratt 
James  K.  Prifti 
David  C.  Provost,  Jr. 
Lanney  E.  Remillard 
Richard  E.  Rodin 
Paul  D.  Sehoonmaker 
Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr. 
Irwin  J.  Smith,  III 
Peter  J.  Stephens 
John  A.  Taylor 

*Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr. 

1957 
209  MEMBERS 
59  Contributors 


28% 


Crosby  L.  Adams 
Neil  W.  Armstrong 
John  H.  Atchison,  Jr. 
Richard  A.  Barlow 
♦Alfred  E.  Barry 
Robert  H.  Beckett 
Anthony  C.  Berg 
Donald  F.  Berth 
Rene  R.  Bertrand 
Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Jr. 
Louis  A.  Blanchard 
John  W.  Braley,  Jr. 
James  H.  Brigham 
John  L.  Buzzi 
Allan  E.  Carlson 
James  A.  Cheney 
Fred  H.  Clark,  Jr. 
Irving  R.  Darwin 
Edward  W.  Eidt,  Jr. 

Richard  J.  Ferguson 

Gerald  Finkle 

Kurt  H.  France 

Seymour  L.  Friedman 

Ronald  S.  Fuller 

Frank  Furman 

Robert  F.  Galligan 

Edward  L.  Gallini 

Joseph  D.  Grzyb,  Jr. 

Alan  R.  Gustafson 

William  P.  Hennessey 

John  F.  Howe,  Jr. 

Richard  P.  Johnson 

Leonard  L.  Krasnow 

Thomas  C.  Lekas 

Roger  E.  Leroux 

George  H.  Long,  Jr. 

George  W.  Matarrese 

Anthony  A.  Matulaitis,  Jr. 

John  D.  Minott 

Edward  J.  Moineau 

Richard  F.  Moore 

Leon  A.  Morgan 

David  N.  Olson 

Alex  C.  Papaioannou 

Collins  M.  Pomeroy 

Keith  O.  Preston 

Robert  R.  Purple 
William  W.  Rawstron 

Oscar  O.  St.  Thomas 
David  E.  Stuart 
AMD  E.  Tanner 
Leo  R.  Toomajian.  Jr. 


*Spiro  L.  Vrusho 
*  Joseph  J.  Weber 

D.  Carl  Webster 
*Robert  P.  Weis 
*Charles  A.  Whitney 

Ronald  Wilson 

Robert  A.  Yates 

1958 
218  MEMBERS 
66  Contributors  30% 

Donald  D.  Abraham 
John  J.  Aquino,  Jr. 
J.  William  Belanger,  Jr. 
Harvey  A.  Berger 
Oliver  E.  Bessette 
Robert  J.  Boyea 
Christopher  Brayton 
William  S.  Brower,  Jr. 
Donald  J.  Butterworth 
Frederic  F.  Cossick 
David  S.  Crimmins 
Paul  Dalton 
Paul  M.  Dalton 
T.  Roger  Danielson 
John  E.  Darling 
*Francis  DeFalco 

James  S.  Demetry 
*David  B.  Denniston 
Harold  O.  Denzer,  Jr. 
Larry,  Dworkin 
John  A.  Fado 
Edward  C.  Fraser 
Philip  M.  French,  Jr. 
Michael  M.  Galbraith 
C.  Stewart  Gentsch 
William  F.  Gess,  Jr. 
Stanley  W.  Graveline 
Michael  S.  Gutman 
*Richard  A.  Hammond 

David  A.  Helman 
*William  H.  Hopf 
Roger  A.  Jolicoeur 
Perry  E.  Joslin 
*  Ronald  D.  Kangas 
*Marian  C.  Knight 
Robert  Laplume 
Bertrand  J.  Lemieux 
Fred  M.  Levin 
*Robert  B.  McLeod 
Robert  A.  Moore 
Philip  L.  Morse 
William  J.  O'Neil 
*Peter  J.  Ottowitz 

Howard  O.  Painter,  Jr. 
♦Sherman  K.  Poultney 
Howard  B.  Pritz 
Marwood  E.  Rand 
Joaquim  S.  S.  Ribeiro 
Bernard  V.  Ricciardi 
Harvey  M.  Robbin 
Harvey  G.  Roberts 
Joseph  R.  Russo 
Nicholas  A.  Seelye 
Ralph  E.  Sellars.  Jr. 
Robert  C.  Simmonds,  Jr. 
Howard  K.  Steves 
Bruce  B.  Storms 
Andrew  A.  Szypula 
Norman  J.  Taupeka 
Robert  W.  Thornton 
Robert  D.  Varey 
James  J.  Vedovelli 
Tennyson  T.  Wang 
Robert  W.  WeinberR 
Robert  F.  Wolff.  Jr. 
Peter  J.  Zanini.  Jr. 

1959 
255  MEMBERS 
60  Contributors  249 

Mohammad  Amin 
Robert  A.  Berg 
•Peter  K.  Bertsch 


Robert  E.  Bober 
Paul  A.  Bonczyk 
Richard  C.  Bourne 
Joseph  D.  Bronzino 
Joseph  P.  Burger 
Neil  T.  Buske 
V.  James  Cinquina,  Jr. 
Charles  N.  Coniaris,  Jr. 
Lee  H.  Courtemanche 
William  F.  Curran 
Joseph  D.  Daddario,  Jr. 
*A.  David  Dickert 
Thomas  J.  Downs 
Leonard  L.  Dutram 
Seymour  Ellin 
*David  A.  Evensen 
F.  William  Farnsworth 
George  M.  Fotiades 
♦Walter  M.  Gasek 

Richard  N.  Gustafson 
♦Bradford  J.  Harper 
♦William  C.  Hees 
Norman  A.  Hiatt 
Thomas  F.  Humphrey 
Robert  Kieltyka 

Donald  E.  Kirk 
♦Roger  W.  Kuenzel 

Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. 

Robert  H.  Lynn 

Norman  Mahler 

Robert  B.  Massad 

John  A.  McManus 

Roger  E.  Miller 
♦Arthur  Olsen,  Jr. 

Richard  S.  Orehotsky 

Alexander  L.  Pratt 
♦Robert  L.  Price 
♦Philip  H.  Puddington 

Frederick  W.  Reinhart 

Donald  J.  Richards 

Clesson  A.  Robbins 

Richard  J.  Ronskavitz 

James  J.  Sampson 
♦Edward  A.  Saulnier 

David  A.  Sawin 

Robert  V.  Sharkey 

Robert  D.  Smith 

Stanley  W.  Sokoloff 

Malcolm  G.  Stearns 

Ronald  F.  Swenson 

Alexander  Swetz,  Jr. 
♦Edwin  D.  Tenney 

Raymond  J.  Tivnan 

Joseph  B.  Vivona 

Winthrop  M.  Wassenar 

William  C.  Whitehead 
♦John  E.  Wolfe 

1960 
224  MEMBERS 

62  Contributors  28% 

Mark  H.  Abramowitz 

William  M.  Aitken 

Joshua  C.  Alpern 

Ernest  W.  Arnold,  Jr. 

Febo  Bartoli 
♦Paul  W.  Bayliss 

Ronald  J.  Brochu 

George  H.  Cadwell,  Jr. 
♦Ronald  A.  Carlson 

Robert  A.  Chechile 

Lawrence  J.  Cohen 

Dwight  M.  Cornell 

Harry  F.  DiZoglio 

Edward  P.  Donoghuc 

Carleton  D.  Driscoll 

Cornelius  J.  Enright.  Jr. 

Douglas  O.  Farrand 

Russell  A.  Fransrn 

Manuel  Ganz 

David  R.  Geoffrov 

"Jerry  B.  Gibbs 

Robert  W.  Goodfader 
Richard  P.  Harding 
Eric  A.  Hauptmann 


William  F.  Hester 
J.  Lawrie  Hibbard 
Richard  P.  Ibsen 
David  A.  Johnson 
♦Francis  J.  Kaszynski,  Jr. 
William  A.  Kerr 
Ivan  H.  Kirsch 
Sang  K.  Lee 
Donald  L.  Lince 
♦Richard  A.  Loring 
Alfred  P.  Materas,  Jr. 
Kenneth  L.  Matson 
Robert  J.  Mercer 
♦Richard  S.  Meyer 
James  P.  Modrak 
Benjamin  B.  Morgan 
Warren  T.  Munroe 
William  R.  Nimee 
Philip  R.  Pastore,  Jr. 
Ronald  F.  Pokraka 
Robert  E.  Purpura 
Norton  S.  Remmer 
♦George  J.  Schoen 
♦Bruce  E.  Schoppe 
♦Bernard  J.  Seastrom 
Franklin  Siegel 
Fred  S.  Snively 
William  M.  Spry 
♦Robert  A.  St.  Jean 

Paul  B.  Stewart 
♦H.  David  Sutton 
Bernard  L.  Tetreault 
Jon  E.  Thorson 
John  S.  Vale 
Elbert  K.  Weaver 
♦David  J.  Welch 
George  G.  Wilson 
Peter  S.  Zilko 

1961 
284  MEMBERS 
69  Contributors  249 

Henry  P.  Allessio 
Edward  A.  Altieri 
John  Brunter 
Hans  H.  Buehler 
Nicholas  A.  Caputo 
Harold  A.  Christopher 
Richard  T.  Davis 
Robert  B.  Davis 
Ronald  W.  Dufries 
James  M.  Dunn 
♦Kenneth  R.  Engvall 

Richard  H.  Federico 
♦George  F.  Foxhall 

John  J.  Gabarro 

Brian  L.  Gartner 

Norman  I.  Ginsburg 

Douglass  D.  Gladstone 
♦Robert  R.  Hale 

Bradley  E.  Hosmer 

Richard  B.  Hosmer 

Asjcd  A.  Jalil 

Joseph  J.  Janik 

G.  Leonard  Johnson 
♦Stuart  C.  Kazin 

Arthur  W.  Kroll 

Gerald  E.  Kuklcwic 

Roger  R.  Lesieur 

Richard  A.  Levcndusky 

John  B.  Lewis 

William  A.  F.  Macrtens 

Paul  A.  L.  Mannheim 

Joseph  A.  Marubr-.o 

Charles  w.  Mel]  i 

Richard  H.  Milton 

Frederick  ' .  O'Brien 

Daniel  F.  O 'Grad v.  Jr. 

Yeaugay  oktay 

Richard  L.  O'Shea 
•Gordon  M.  Porker 

Walter  EC  IMI.iri/.  Jr. 
•Thomas  E.  Postma 
Lloyd  W.  Pote 
David  W.  Prosser 


Donald  C.  Root 
Alan  C.  Roseen 
Sheldon  W.  Rothstein 
Pierce  E.  Rowe 
Merrill  Rutman 
Donald  L.  Sangster 
Robert  W.  Schomber 
Donald  J.  Schulz 

*Robert  E.  Seamon 

♦Allan  P.  Sherman 
Ralph  F.  Smith,  in 
Peter  J.  Sugda 

*Richard  E.  Taylor 
Wayne  L.  Taylor 
James  M.  Tolos 
Kenneth  J.  Virkus 
Richard  H.  Vogel 
Robert  A.  Weiss 
W.  Dana  Wilcock 
Charles  E.  Wilkes 

♦Stanley  L.  Wilson 
Bruce  W.  Woodford 
Joseph  N.  Wrubel 
Richard  Y.  Yee 
George  M.  Yule 
Rimas  A.  Zinas 


1962 
242  MEMBERS 
52  Contributors 
Sheldon  S.  Abelson 
Walter  B.  Ambler 
Ronald  F.  Baruzzi 
Daniel  J.  Brosnihan,  III 
William  A  Brutsch 
Carmine  A.  Carosella 
Robert  R.  CassaneUi 

*Robert  A.  Cawood 

*Robert  W.  Chapin 
Barry  M.  Cherkas 
Hubert  M.  Cole,  Jr. 
Nicholas  Cotsidas 
Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr. 
Michael  A.  Davis 

*Richard  J.  DiBuono 
Bruce  W.  Dudley 
Victor  P.  Dufault 
Robert  A.  Eddy 
Andrew  M.  Edelman 
Paul  E.  Engstrom 
Jacob  N.  Erlich 
Alfred  Ferron 
James  L.  Forand,  Jr. 

*George  H.  Forsberg 
Joel  N.  Freedman 
Paul  F.  Gelinas 
Jerald  N.  Hamemick 
Thomas  G.  Holland 
Neil  J.  Jorgensen 
Joseph  D.  LeBlanc 
Frank  J.  Maher 
Donald  R.  Marcy 
Roger  G.  Massey 
James  H.  Mayer 
William  C.  McDonald 
Howard  L.  McGill,  Jr. 

♦Bernard  J.  Meister 

♦Ray  S.  Messenger 

♦Brian  J.  O'Connell 

♦Peter  A.  Parrino 
Thomas  E.  Quinn 
Harry  T.  Rapelje 
Harold  C.  Reynolds,  Jr. 
John  H.  Reynolds 

♦Donald  F.  Sanger 

♦David  K.  Smith 

♦Thomas  J.  Tully 
Myron  R.  Waldman 
Stephen  M.  Wells 
Robert  P.  Wilder 
Richard  P.  Williamson 

♦Robert  H.  York 


21c 


1963 
242  MEMBERS 

55  Contributors  23% 

Kenneth  A.  Backer 

Alfred  H.  Barrett 

Charles  M.  Beck,  II 

Robert  D.  Behn 
♦Carleton  W.  Borden,  Jr. 

Joseph  V.  Bucciaglia 
♦W.  James  Budzyna 

Thomas  E.  Chechile 

Richard  T.  Darin 
♦Joseph  R.  deBeaumont 

Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr. 
♦David  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 

Lawrence  N.  Escott 
♦Roger  D.  Flood 
♦Earl  T.  Fratus 

John  H.  Geffken 

Lee  J.  Globerson 

Arthur  E.  Goddard,  II 

Charles  N.  Goddard 

Bruce  G.  Goodale 

Robert  H.  Gowdy 

Dennis  W.  Heath 
♦Allen  H.  Hoffman 

Harry  A.  Hoyen,  Jr. 

George  B.  Hunt 

Richard  A.  Iacobucci 

Robert  D.  Ingle 

James  M.  Kelly,  Jr. 

Francis  E.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

Chi-Ming  Li 

Peter  F.  Lilienthal,  II 

W.  Allan  Lilius 

Daniel  J.  Lizdas 

Richard  C.  Marcy,  Jr, 
♦Howard  I.  McDevitt,  Jr. 
♦Roger  C.  McGee 

Robert  M.  Mellor 
♦Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr. 
♦Robert  E.  Murphy 
♦David  R.  Nordin 

A.  Stephen  Otis 

Russell  E.  Person 

John  P.  Pisinski,  Jr. 

Edward  J.  Polewarczyk 

Henry  B.  Schroeder 

John  H.  Sistare 

John  P.  Slovak,  Jr. 

Dennis  E.  Snay 

Joseph  P.  Stakun 

Warren  R.  Standley 

David  A.  Tone 
♦Paul  W.  Ulcickas 

Allan  R.  Whittum 

William  C.  Zinno 

Theodore  P.  Zoli,  Jr. 

1964 
284  MEMBERS 

60  Contributors  21% 

Robert  P.  Allison 

Douglas  W.  Anderson 

Peter  Baker 

Thomas  S.  Baron 

Martin  R.  Barone 

Ralph  F.  Bedford 

Thaddeus  Betts 
♦Stuart  P.  Bowen 

William  A.  Cote 

Edward  L,  Cure 

Peter  L.  Dornemann 
♦Raymond  G.  Dube 

Walter  B.  Fohlin 
♦James  E.  Gaffney 

Bradley  T.  Gale 

Robert  L.  Garrison 

Donald  A.  Ghiz 

Jon  Giestvang 

Alan  R.  Gross 

William  J.  Healy,  Jr. 

Richard  H.  Hedlund 

Larry  G.  Hull 

Barry  J.  Kadets 


Paul  J.  Keating 
♦Wayne  H.  Keene 

Eugene  S.  Killian 

Daniel  S.  King 

David  H.  Laananen 
♦M.  Stephen  Lajoie 

Bruce  W.  Larsen 

Jean  B.  Letendre 

Paul  A.  Lilienthal 

Alfred  C.  Malchiodi 

Frank  A.  Marafioti 

Thomas  G.  McGee 

Steven  D.  Mittleman 

Thomas  J.  Modzelewski 
♦Harold  E.  Monde,  Jr. 

William  J.  Museler 

Thomas  B.  Newman,  Jr. 

Eugene  E.  Niemi,  Jr. 
♦Robert  W.  Palmer 
♦Robert  E.  Parker 

Robert  A.  Peura 

William  R.  Phillips 

Alfred  R.  Potvin 
♦Robert  Rounds,  Jr. 

Robert  W.  Rudd 

John  H.  Schmidt 

David  T.  Signori,  Jr. 

Maurice  R.  Silvestris 

John  A.  Spencer 

George  V.  Spires,  III 

Stanley  Szymanski 

Gerald  E.  Tammi 

Anthony  M.  Trippi 

David  J.  Usher 

S.  William  Wandle,  Jr. 
♦James  C.  Ward,  Jr. 
♦Brian  A.  Wells 

1965 
304  MEMBERS 

63  Contributors  21% 

Philip  I.  Bachelder 

Nicholas  J.  Barone 

Peter  K.  Bice 

Robert  H.  Cahill 
♦Alexander  B.  Campbell,  II 
♦Donald  C.  Carlson 
♦Richard  J.  Cavallaro 

Robert  E.  Cavallaro 

Jerry  C.  Chen 
♦Stephen  L.  Cloues 
♦David  B.  Cooley 

David  A.  Coombe 
♦James  A.  Day 

Michael  S.  Dembski 

Garrett  H.  DeVlieg 

Edward  J.  Falkowski 
♦John  E.  Flynn 
♦Harry  S.  Forrest 

Richard  C.  Fortier 

William  D.  Galebach 

Ronald  G.  Greene 

James  L.  Hammett,  Jr. 

Peter  A.  Heibeck 

John  P.  Jacobson 

Donald  P.  Johnson 
♦John  J.  Josti 

Peter  B.  Kirschmann 

Clinton  F.  Kucera,  Jr. 

George  N.  Lemmon,  III 

Allan  W.  Low,  Jr. 
♦David  B.  Luber 
♦Peter  E.  McCormick 

Harry  A.  Mildonian,  Jr. 

James  F.  Mills 
♦Patrick  T.  Moran 

Thomas  F.  Moriarty 

Gerald  F.  Morris 
♦Philip  C.  Nyberg 

Paul  N.  Nystrom 

John  W.  Oldham,  Jr. 

Michael  F.  Oliver 

Joseph  J.  Osvald 
♦Paul  R.  Pearson 
♦Thomas  E.  Pease 


James  W.  Pierce 

Wayne  D.  Pobzeznik 

Harvey  J.  Rosenfield 
♦Joseph  A.  Ruseckas 
♦David  M.  Schwaber 

Chester  J.  Sergey,  Jr. 

Ojars  M.  Silarajs 
♦Henry  J.  Skonieczny 

John  P.  Stone 

Donald  C.  Sundberg 

Eugene  G.  Sweeney,  Jr. 
♦Kenneth  W.  Terry 
♦Jeffrey  W.  Thwing 
♦Russell  B.  Trask 

Eric  P.  Warman 
♦Bruce  R.  Webber 
♦John  T.  Wilson 

Ronald  W.  Wood 

William  H.  Wyman 

1966 
299  MEMBERS 

53  Contributors  18% 

♦Gary  M.  Anderson 

Philip  S.  Blackman 
♦Roland  C.  Bouchard 

John  J.  Braun 

Richard  A.  Calvert 

John  H.  Carosella 
♦David  L.  Clarke 

James  A.  Cocci 
♦Douglas  H.  Crowell 

Albert  J.  DiPietro 

John  G.  Dyckman 
♦Joachim  W.  Dziallas 
♦George  M.  Elko 
♦William  F.  Elliott 

Donald  H.  Foley 

Stephen  J.  Formica 

Christopher  G.  Foster 

Brendan  J.  Geelan 

Stephen  J.  Hebert 
♦Philip  J.  Hopkinson 
♦David  L.  Jorczak 

Peter  J.  Kudless 
♦Ernest  J.  Kunz,  Jr. 
♦John  H.  Lauterbach 

Paul  R.  Lindberg 

Ching  Soo  Liu 
♦Peter  H.  Lukesh 

Paul  R.  Malnati 

Donald  E.  McCarthy 

Michael  C.  Napolitano 
♦Ronald  F.  Naventi 

Richard  R.  Neumayer 

Donald  R.  Nitsche 
♦Harry  B.  Ogasian 
♦Jonathan  H.  Pardee 
♦Lawrence  A.  Penoncello 

Donald  W.  Petersen,  Jr. 

Charles  W.  Pike 

Robert  E.  Rapp 

James  A.  Ratches 

Anthony  P.  Sacovitch 

Robert  J.  Scalzi 

Robert  E.  Shaw 

Paul  S.  Shelton 

Earl  C.  Sparks,  III 
♦Jesse  R.  Stalker,  Jr. 
♦Peter  G.  Stebbins 

David  H.  Stone 

Leonard  J.  Weckel 

Malcolm  C.  White,  Jr. 

Jeffrey  W.  Wickeri 

Robert  D.  Wilson 
♦Roger  J.  Zipfel 

1967 
327  MEMBERS 
55  Contributors  17% 

♦Stephen  R.  Alpert 
♦Arthur  F.  Amend 
Roger  V.  Bartholomew 
William  R.  Cooper 


Stephen  B.  Cotter 
♦Richard  H.  Court,  Jr. 

Francis  L.  Dacri 

Richard  E.  DeGennaro 

John  P.  Dow 
*John  B.  Feldman 

Joseph  L.  Ferrantino 
*Peter  N.  Formica 

Raymond  J.  Fortin 
♦Steven  J.  Frymer 
♦Edward  A.  Gallo 

Lawrence  R.  Gooch 
♦Joseph  F.  Goulart 
*Frederick  P.  Helm 
♦William  R.  Hyatt 

Frank  T.  Jodaitis 
*Bradford  A.  Johnson 

Joel  B..  Kameron 

Marshall  A.  Kaplan 

Thomas  A.  Keenan 

Thomas  E.  Kelley 
*John  L.  Kilguss 
♦Stephen  J.  Lak,  Jr. 

Rene  B.  LaPierre 

Daniel  B.  Levinson 

Thomas  Y.  Liu 

Russell  A.  Lukes 

Robert  E.  Lundstrom 

James  W.  Manning 

Frank  D.  Manter 
♦Robert  G.  McAndrew,  III 
*Eduardo  A.  Mendez 

Ronald  A.  Mucci 

Norman  E.  Nutter 

Mukundray  N.  Patel 

Stanley  P.  Pietrewicz 

Charles  F.  Proctor 
♦Joseph  R.  Pyzik 

John  G.  Rahaim 

George  H.  Rand,  Jr. 

John  E.  Rogozenski,  Jr. 


John  S.  Romano 

Edward  G.  Semple 

Sudhir  A.  Shah 
*Neil  M.  Shea 
*John  E.  Sonne 

Alan  H.  Suydam 

Peter  H.  Tallman 
*  Robert  P.  Tolokan 

Elliot  F.  Whipple 
*Warren  B.  Zepp,  Jr. 

1968 
353  MEMBERS 

62  Contributors  If 

Arnold  J.  Antak 
♦Robert  E.  Balmat 
♦Robert  G.  Balmer 
♦David  C.  Baxter 

Donald  P.  Bergstrom 
♦Norman  A.  Bergstrom,  Jr. 

John  J.  Bresnahan,  Jr. 
♦John  M.  Bums 
♦Robert  H.  deFlesco,  Jr. 
♦Robert  R.  Demers 
♦Michael  A.  DiPierro 

Eric  K.  Durling 
♦Pentti  O.  Elolampi 

Douglas  G.  Ferry 
♦Robert  J.  Gallo 

Thomas  A.  Gelormino 

Kenneth  A.  Gminski 
♦Cobb  S.  Goff 

Robert  C.  Gosling 

David  L.  Gradwell 

David  J.  Gumbley 
♦Edward  M.  Harper 
♦Robert  D.  Hickey 
♦Joseph  F.  Hilyard 
♦John  H.  Holmes 

Robert  J.  Horansky 

Ronald  E.  Jodoin 


♦George  T.  Kane 
♦Charles  D.  Konopka 
Ali  S.  Koseatac 

John  J.  Kraska,  Jr. 
♦Michael  R.  Latina 
♦Andrew  A.  Lesick 

Walter  C.  Lynick 
♦Israel  Mac 
♦John  D.  MacDougall,  Jr. 

Francis  W.  Maher,  Jr. 

Paul  D.  Matukaitis 

Peter  F.  McKittrick 
♦Robert  Meader 

Joseph  C.  Nappi 

Robert  A.  Nichols 

James  M.  Palmer 

Cary  A.  Palulis 
♦Joseph  L.  Paquette 
♦Roger  L.  Phelps 

William  D.  Poulin 

James  J.  Powers 

Ronald  D.  Rehkamp 
♦David  H.  Rice 

Richard  E.  Roy 

Walter  Sackmann 
♦Peter  A.  Saltz 

Timothy  J.  Schaffernoth 

Jeffrey  H.  Semmel 

James  F.  Sinnamon 

David  A.  Swercewski 

Franklyn  H.  Taylor 
♦Marshall  B.  Taylor 

Michael  J.  True 
♦James  M.  Wendell 
♦Frank  S.  Yazwinski,  III 

1969 

322  MEMBERS 
41  Contributors  13% 

Lawrence  R.  Areskog 


Robert  C.  Balcer 
Craig  F.  Bradley 
Michael  J.  Cohen 
George  Q.  Davenport 
Larry  P.  Dexter 
Ralph  J.  Eschborn,  II 
Jerome  B.  Flynn,  Jr. 
Warren  F.  Follett 
Douglas  J.  George 
Peter  T.  Grosch 
Thomas  C.  Gurney 
James  W.  Haury 
Ronald  L.  Jones 
Arthur  T.  Katsaros 
Edwin  D.  Kuenzler 
Thomas  F.  McAuliffe 
Gordon  J.  Mears 
Wayne  Y.  Morse 
Stephen  F.  Nagy 
Eric  H.  Nickerson 
Paul  V.  Norkevicius 
John  J.  Pace 
John  F.  Poblocki 
Daniel  C.  Pond 
Robert  B.  Reidy 
Ralph  W.  RoUo 
Rene  J.  Roy 
Richard  S.  Sanford 
Richard  P.  Segur 
Barry  N.  Shiffrin 
John  S.  Simpson 
Robert  A.  Spicuzza 
Frederick  G.  Spreter 
Raymond  B.  Stanley 
David  W.  Swenson 
B.  Lee  Tuttle 
Paul  S.  Wolf 
Charles  M.  Zepp 
Steven  L.  Zieve 
David  A.  Zlotek 


OTHER  CONTRIBUTORS 

Alumni  Wives  Club 

American  Optical  Corporation 

Anonymous 

The  Carrier  Foundation,  Inc. 

Class  of  1970 

Foster  Wheeler  Corporation 

Franklin  Square  Agency,  Inc. 

George  W.  Knauff,  Inc. 

The  Otto  Konigslow  Manufacturing  Company 

The  Macamor  Foundation 

MacPherson  Control  Products,  Inc. 

National  Standard  Company  —  Worcester  Wire  Division 

Rex  Chainbelt  Foundation,  Inc. 

The  Singer  Company 

Harry  C.  Thompson 

Vee-Arc  Corporation 

Dr.  Merrill  L.  Welcker 

Worcester  County  Alumni  Association  Chapter 


ANOTHER  SUCCESSFUL 
U.  N.  MEETING 


For  the  second  time  in  as  many 
years  the  New  York  and  Northern 
New  Jersey  Alumni  Chapters  staged  a 
joint  effort  and  held  a  meeting  at  the 
United  Nations  building  in  New  York 
City.  The  guest  speaker  this  year  was 
Israeli  Ambassador  Moshe  Lashem 
who  spoke  about  the  Middle  East 
situation.  About  165  people  attended 
the  meeting. 

A  unique  part  of  this  meeting  was 
the  attendance  of  eight  WPI  under- 
graduates. Included  were  three  juniors, 
one  sophomore  and  four  freshmen, 
including  two  coeds.  Overnight  accom- 
modations for  these  people  were 
graciously  provided  by  Helge  S.  John- 
son, '24,  and  Thomas  B.  Graham,  '38 
at  their  homes  in  Scarsdale,  N.Y. 

Arrangements  for  the  meeting 
were  once  again  capably  handled  by 
Stephen  J.  Spencer,  '49  with  the  assist- 
ance of  New  York  Chapter  President, 
Spike    Vrusho,    '57,    Northern    New 


Jersey  Chapter  President,  Sang  Ki  Lee, 
'60  and  Victor  E.  Kohman,  '43.  Prior 
to  the  1969  meeting  only  one  outside 
group,  the  Harvard  Business  School 
Alumni,  had  been  able  to  arrange  a 
meeting  at  the  U.N. 

Upon  arriving  at  the  United  Na- 
tions, guests  were  able  to  tour  the 
complex  prior  to  the  social  hour  and 
buffet  dinner.  Following  the  dinner, 
Ambassador  Leshem  addressed  the 
gathering.  He  began  lightly  by  talking 
about  some  of  the  ineffectiveness  of 
the  U.N.  and  the  ability  of  the  U.N.  to 
handle  a  hot  potato  long  enough  for  it 
to  become  a  cold  one. 

In  a  more  serious  vein,  the  Am- 
bassador noted  some  of  the  back- 
ground of  the  Jews  as  a  race,  and  as  a 
nation.  Throughout  his  speech  he 
characterized  the  Israelis  as  a  strong 
group,  capable  of  carrying  on  their 
own  affairs,  while  acknowledging  that 
their  losses,  percentage-wise,  would  be. 


and  are,  high.  He  was  careful  to  point 
out  that  they  would  not  ask  for  U.S. 
military  involvement.  It  was  his  view- 
point that  the  conflict  must  be  solved 
directly  by  the  parties  involved 
through  peaceful  negotiations.  War- 
fare, he  said,  leads  to  military  arrange- 
ments which  obviously  don't  last.  In 
another  important  point,  he  expressed 
his  fears  that  increasing  Soviet  involve- 
ment will  only  bring  about  a  political 
confrontation  between  the  Soviet 
Union  and  the  United  States,  a  devel- 
opment which  he  said  he  hoped  would 
be  avoided. 

The  Ambassador  proved  to  be  an 
excellent  speaker.  He  was  brief  and  to 
the  point,  showing  on  several  occa- 
sions an  excellent  sense  of  humor.  It 
was  another  well-planned  effort  by  the 
New  York  and  Northern  New  Jersey 
Chapters  and  a  successful  venture  once 
again. 


Ambassador  Leshem  speaks 

to  the  large  crowd. 

Seated  at  the  head  table 

are,  left  to  right: 

Mrs.  Vrusho,  Spike  Vrusho,  '57, 

and  Steve  Spencer,  '49. 


7 


HE  JOURNAL 


37 


"The  three  volumes... are  of  such  a 
level  of  excitement  that  this 
chronicle  merits  a  high  place  in  the 
literature  of  the  human  imagination 
at  its  most  creative . . .  splendid 
volumes,  handsomely  printed  and 
well  illustrated../' 

The  New  York  Times  Book  Review 


The  Papers  of 
ROBERT  H.  G 


•  ii 


DARD 


Edited  by  ESTHER  C.  GODDARD  and  Dr.  G.  EDWARD  PENDRAY 
Three  volumes,  1709  pages,  illustrated,  $150.00  the  set 


Today,  not  a  rocket  or  missile  goes  aloft,  not  a 
space  vehicle  is  in  orbit,  that  does  not  owe  its 
principles  to  the  genius  of  Robert  H.  Goddard. 
His  contributions  have  been  the  most  important 
technical  achievements  of  our  times. 

A  dedicated  rocket  pioneer  and  a  prolific 
writer,  Dr.  Goddard  reported  regularly  and  in 
detail  to  the  Smithsonian  Institution,  The  Daniel 
and  Florence  Guggenheim  Foundation,  and  the 
Trustees  of  Clark  University— papers  and  re- 
ports that  form  the  backbone  of  this  important 
work.  Its  contents,  including  his  military  com- 
muniques, have  been  selected  from  the  more 
than  6,000  pages  of  material  that  Goddard  left 
at  the  time  of  his  death. 


The  Daniel  and  Florence  Guggenheim 
Foundation  financed  the  great  task  of  collect- 
ing, selecting,  and  editing  these  papers  (in- 
cluding key  diaries  and  sketches  that  often 
accompanied  them),  to  present,  in  nearly  com- 
plete form,  the  professional  writing  that 
Goddard  did  throughout  his  long  and  im- 
mensely productive  career. 

"Deserves  a  place  on  the  shelf  of  any  serious 
library  of  rocketry  and  astronautics." 

Space/  Aeronautics 

Published  by 
McGRAW-HILL  BOOK  COMPANY 


Available  at  the  Worcester  Tech  Bookstore 
or  at  your  local  bookstore 


38 


THE  JOURNAL 


REUNION  ROUNDUP 


1910 


CLASS  OF  1910 

Not  daunted  by  an  all-day  rain,  our 
10+60  reunion  got  off  to  a  good  start  with  a 
social  gathering  Friday  at  3  p.m.  in  Morgan 
Hall,  followed  at  7  p.m.  by  a  cocktail  hour 
and  dinner  of  steaks  and  lobsters,  plus  the 
usual  fillers,  and  seasoned  by  tales  of  sixty 


years  of  varied  experiences,  some  of  them 
thrillers.  The  striking  centerpiece  on  the 
table  was  a  replica  of  our  sundial,  made  by 
Millard  Clement.  Millard  also  presented  his 
stirring  poem:  "Your  Dial  Speaks  Again". 
At  the  table  were  Carl  Atherton,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Charles  Barney,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William 


1911 


Bell,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Millard  Clement,  Allan 
Forbes,  Alvan  Grout,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward 
Hanff  and  Oliver  Jacobs. 

A  tour  of  the  campus  was  most 
rewarding.  Its  well-placed,  well-designed 
buildings,  beautifully  landscaped  with 
evergreens,  gorgeous  Rhododendrons  and 
Azalea  shrubs  in  full  bloom;  and  the  huge 
oak  trees  which  have  stood  the  sixty  years 
better  than  most  of  us.  Carl  so  aptly 
expressed  our  feelings  when  he  said,  "It 
looks  like  WPI  is  in  a  state  of  affluence." 

With  the  table  cleared,  we  went  into 
executive  session  and  elected  officers  to 
serve  until  the  next  get-together.  Ed  Hanff 
thought  that  the  ten  years  which  he  has 
served  was  enough.  We  thought  that  the 
salary  (S0.00  minus  postage  used)  was 
bothering  him.  But  even  when  we  offered  to 
double  the  salary  and  make  it  retroactive,  he 
wouldn't  budge,  so  the  following  were 
elected:  President,  Fred  Hewes;  Vice 
Presidents,  Millard  Clement  and  William 
Bell;  Secretary,  Charles  Barney.  After  more 
visiting  we  separated,  most  of  us  to  spend 
the  night  at  Daniels  Hall,  where  we  found 
first-class  accommodations:  new  linen  on 
comfortable  beds,  fine  ventilation,  and 
everything  clean  and  neat. 

We  awoke  Saturday  morning  to  another 
day  of  rain.  Breakfast  in  Morgan  Hall  at 
8:30  and  registration  at  9,  where  we 
received  our  badges  and  complimentary 
luncheon  tickets.  Here  we  were  met  by 
George  and  Mrs.  Martin  who  were  with  us 
for  the  remainder  of  the  day  for  class 
pictures,  Alumni  Reunion  Luncheon,  etc. 

CLASS  OF  1911 

The  Class  of  1911  met  on  Friday,  June 
5  at  Sterling  Inn  for  their  annual  reunion. 

Four  members  and  three  wives  attended. 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Dave  Carpenter,  Mr.  &  Mrs. 
Hugh  Reed,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Clarence  (Bill)  Taft 
and  Howard  Chace  who  came  alone  since 
Mrs.  Chace  was  in  the  hospital  recovering 
from  a  heart  attack. 

A  short  business  meeting  was  held  with 
secretary  and  treasurer  reports.  Our  bank 
balance  was  thought  to  be  more  than 
needed  for  current  expenses  so  it  was  voted 
to  withdraw  $150.00  and  present  it  to  the 
Alumni  Office  to  be  added  to  the  Student 
Aid  Fund  established  at  our  50th  reunion  in 
1961. 

An  excellent  dinner  was  enjoyed  by  all 
as  usual,  thanks  to  Mrs.  Rose  Mahoney  who 
had  a  table  set  for  us  in  a  small  private 
room. 

Letters  and  greetings  were  read  from 
several  class  members  unable  to  attend. 

Next  year  will  be  our  60th  and  we  hope 
to  have  a  good  attendance,  so  any  of  you 
who  can,  please  plan  to  join  us. 

Howard  P.  Chace,  President 


39 


1912 


CLASS  OF  1912 

At  the  Friday  evening  dinner  at  the 
Marlboro  Country  Club  were:  Joseph  and 
Helen  Granger,  Eugene  and  Gertrude 
Powers,  Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett,  Leon 
Treadwell,  Edward  Tucker,  and  Harrison 
Brown.  These  nine  are  the  same  as  those  of 
last  year  with  the  exception  of  Margaret 
Treadwell  who  was  confined  at  home  as  a 
result  of  an  accident. 

The  dinner  was  brightened  by  a  tele- 
phone call  from  Eric  Benedict,  in  Washing- 
ton for  the  graduation  of  a  grandson.  He 
had  written  why  he  could  not  attend,  but 
promised  to  be  at  our  60th  in  1972  if  he  has 
to  walk  up  from  Cape  Cod.  He  repeats  his 
expression  that  he  is  "disgustingly  healthy". 

The  business  session  was  held  at  the 
home  of  our  President,  Joe  Granger,  but  the 
business  was  little  more  than  making  sure 
that  the  Secretary-Treasurer  was  on  the  job. 

With  the  deaths  of  Ralph  Norton,  Harry 
Button  and  Vaughn  Griffin,  our  member- 
ship is  now  34.  The  average  age  is  80.9 
ranging  from  79.3  to  85.7. 

The  book,  "Theory  of  Sets"  by  N. 
Bourbaki,  which  we  donated  to  the  Gordon 
Library  last  year,  was  on  display.  A  glance 
through  its  pages  aroused  our  sympathy  for 
students  who  now  have  to  study  modern 
mathematics. 

S2000  was  awarded  last  year  from  the 
income  of  the  Herbert  Foster  Taylor 
Student  Aid  Fund.  A  little  more  than  that 
amount  still  remains  available. 

Fewer  than  usual  were  the  letters  re- 
ceived from  members.  Besides  Benedict, 
those    who    explained    their   absence   were 


Roger  Towne,  Jim  Shea,  and  Harland 
Stuart.  Harland's  reason  was  the  lack  of  T 
and  E  (time  and  energy)  after  a  five  day 
Baptist  convention,  working  with  4H,  and 
other  forthcoming  events.  August  Reinhard 
sent  a  card  from  Florida  in  February.  Carl 
Norton  writes  he  is  still  playing  golf.  Mrs. 
Cunningham  in  Florida  repeated  how  much 
Jim  thought  of  the  1912  class. 

In  April,  a  birthday  card  to  James 
Hogan  came  back  unopened  marked  "de- 
ceased", but  a  letter  to  the  town  clerk  was 
returned  with  a  note,  "Mr.  James  Hogan  is 


still    very    much    alive".    So    we    are    still 
counting  him  in. 

But  the  most  prolific  writer  is  Nibs 
(Ernest)  Taylor  of  Conneaut,  Ohio.  Refer- 
ring to  the  electric  hoe  which  I  mentioned 
in  the  Spring  Journal,  he  explained  that, 
after  hearing  of  such  a  device,  he  travelled 
up  and  down  the  Nickel  Plate  Railroad 
hunting  for  one,  only  to  find  it  in  Conneaut. 
He  will  prepare  a  diagram  of  it  at  some 
future  date  to  assure  me  it  does  exist.  He 
claims  superior  knowledge  as  he  is  three 
days  older  than  I,  so  I  accept  his  fatherly 
advice. 

Harrison  G.  Brown,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1913 

An  informal  gathering  of  1913  men  and 
wives  was  held  at  The  Winchendon  School, 
Winchendon,  Mass.,  June  4th  and  5th  1970, 
making  it  our  57th  reunion. 

Events  started  with  a  social  hour  and 
dinner  Thursday  evening  and  although 
Friday  turned  out  to  be  rainy,  everyone 
kept  busy  with  either  trips  into  the  country, 
golf  or  shuffleboard.  Another  social  hour 
and  dinner  were  enjoyed  Friday  evening, 
followed  by  interesting  discussions  of  past 
events  and  future  plans,  such  as  getting 
together  at  the  same  place  next  year. 

Present  were:  George  Chick,  George 
Graham,  Leon  Rice,  Arthur  Burleigh, 
Farquhar  Smith,  and  their  wives,  Ed  Dahill 
and  Harry  Lindsay.  Allen  Gridley  joined 
some  of  us  at  Worcester  on  Saturday  morn- 
ing. 

Letters  or  messages  were  received  from 
several  members  of  the  class,  including 
Norris    Pease,    Fred    Carpenter,    Al    Lorion, 


1915 


40 


THE  JOURNAL 


Bill    Stultz,   Jim   Armour,  Clarence   Brock, 
Don  Russell  and  Harvey  Friars. 

Arthur  C.  Burleigh,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1915 

There  were  five  members  of  1915  and 
two  wives  that  gathered  at  the  Sheraton- 
Yankee  Drummer  Motor  Inn  in  Auburn. 
They  were:  Charles  Hurd  and  Mrs.  Hurd, 
■Harrison  Hosmer  and  Mrs.  Hosmer,  Carroll 
Lawton,  Ulric  Lebourveau  and  Frank 
:Forsberg.  We  had  a  wonderful  visit  together 
over  a  good  dinner,  in  quiet  surroundings, 
and  it  went  on  from  7  p.m.  to  II  p.m.  Friday 
evening. 

On  Saturday,  we  were  joined  at  the 
Alumni  luncheon  by  Fred  Church  and  Mrs. 
Church,  Everett  Hutchins  and  Earle 
Andrews. 

Frank  Forsberg,  President 


CLASS  OF  1920 

Thirty-seven  members,  twenty-nine 
wives  and  two  guests  were  present  for  our 
50th  anniversary  dinner  at  Franklin  Manor 
on  Friday  night.  Rain  spoiled  our  plans  for 
an  afternoon  outside  in  the  garden,  but  a 
long  session  in  the  cocktail  lounge  afforded 

ian  excellent  opportunity  to  get  reac- 
quainted  with  old  friends;  it  was  so  crowded 
that  you  couldn't  turn  around  without 
bumping  into  another  classmate. 

The  following  members  and  wives  at- 
tended our  Reunion:  Arvid  Anderson,  Mai 
and  Dorothy  Arthur,  Chet  Aldrich,  Fritz 
and  Florence  Bauder,  Larry  and  Eleanor 
Bean,  Harold  and  Elizabeth  Berg,  Ray  and 
Stella  Bishop,  George  and  Charlotte  Blais- 
dell.  Herb  and  Jessie  Brooks,  Eliot  Burbank, 
Fred  Butler,  Norman  and  Mary  Firth, 
Charlie  and  Dorothy  Gammal,  Milt  and 
Florence  Garland,  Paul  Harriman,  Dick  and 
Pauline  Heald,  Ray  Heath,  Jack  and  Anne 
Holmes,  Harold  and  Agnes  Hunt,  Helmer 
and  Ethyl  Johnson,  Burt  Marsh,  Ray  and 
Edith  Meader,  Harry  and  Jeannette  Merritt, 
Jerry  and  Anna  O'Neil,  Bob  and  Sophie 
Peterson,  Mai  and  Martha  Quimby,  Al 
Rienstra,  Saul  and  Eva  Robinson,  Hobart 
and  Erma  Sanborn,  Baalis  Sanford,  Homer 
Stevens,  Harry  and  Lida  Tenney,  Ernie  and 
Signe  Thompson,  Henry  and  Marion  Town- 
send,  George  and  Elizabeth  White,  Albert 
and  Florence  Woodward,  Guy  and  Marjorie 
Woodward. 

Letters  of  regret  that  they  could  not  be 

■  here  were  received  from  Jack  Burns  who 
went  to  West  Point  after  one  year  at  WPI 
and  is  now  a  retired  General  living  in 
Tacoma,  Washington;  from  Lawrence  Divoll 
who  went  to  Annapolis  and  is  now  a  retired 
Captain  living  in  Los  Altos,  California;  from 
Harold  Boutelle  who  is  moving  into  a  new 


home  in  Amherst,  Mass;  from  Albert  Shaw 
who  worked  for  Worthington  Corp.  for  42 
years  —  he  says  he  and  Marge  are  in 
excellent  health  but  had  a  long-standing 
commitment  to  attend  the  graduation  of 
their  twin  grandchildren  in  North  Carolina 
—  they  live  at  187-87th  Avenue,  North,  St. 
Petersburg,  Florida  33702  and  would  be 
pleased  to  hear  from  any  classmates  living  in 
Florida;  from  Les  and  Gladys  Wightman, 
whose  retirement  started  June  2,  a  long 
telegram  from  their  new  home,  5320 
Mustang  Way,  Carmichael,  California,  with 
heated  swimming  pool,  where  they  would 
be  pleased  to  see  any  friends  who  might  be 
out  that  way. 

If  there  were  a  prize  for  traveling  the 
longest  distance,  it  would  have  to  go  to  Mai 
and  Dorothy  Arthur  who  came  from  Cali- 
fornia by  way  of  Europe,  arriving  back  in 
Worcester  June  3rd. 

After  a  well-prepared  and  expertly 
served  dinner,  Mai  Arthur,  our  Class  Presi- 
dent, took  over,  conducted  a  brief  business 
meeting  and  explained  the  program  for  the 
Alumni  Meeting  on  Saturday.  After  being 
away  so  many  years,  he  led  the  singing  of 
the  Alma  Mater,  first  instructing  those  of  us 
who  have  been  around  this  area  all  these 
years,  just  how  it  should  be  sung.  Mai  had 
done  his  homework. 

We  have  several  expert  photographers 
who  take  marvelous  pictures  of  their  travels 
and  who  showed  them  after  dinner.  Guy 
Woodward  provided  the  projection  equip- 
ment and  showed  pictures  of  large,  immacu- 
lately maintained  estates  in  Virginia,  the 
Botanical  Gardens  in  Norfolk  and  fields  and 
streams  alive  with  dogwood;  also  beautiful 
wild-life  scenes   in  Maine,  New  Hampshire, 


Vermont  and  Massachusetts.  He  also  showed 
pictures  of  damaged  and  worn  antique 
furniture  which  they  pick  up.  Guy  does  the 
physical  restoring  necessary  and  Marg  does 
the  finishing  to  make  stunningly  beautiful 
and  usable  show-pieces. 

Paul  Harriman  had  just  returned  from  a 
tour  of  the  World's  Fair  in  Tokyo  and 
showed  slides  of  the  major  exhibits,  with 
particular  emphasis  on  the  large,  transparent 
spheres  suspended  from  an  overhead  track 
running  around  the  entire  exhibition 
grounds,  each  sphere  seating  several  passen- 
gers and  rotating  slowly  as  it  moves  along 
the  overhead  track,  thus  affording  the 
passengers  an  unobstructed  view  of  all  areas 
of  the  Fair. 

Hobart  Sanborn  showed  beautiful  pic- 
tures of  their  automobile  trip  thru  the 
Canadian  Rockies  in  the  summer  with  the 
temperature  comfortable  and  the  sun 
shining,  but  ice  and  snow  everywhere  from 
the  mountain  peaks  right  down  to  the  road. 
A  magnificent  summer  trip  for  them  —  they 
spend  the  winters  in  Florida  now  —  but  not 
for  me,  I  still  shovel  snow  and  chop  ice  all 
winter! 

Jack  Holmes  had  put  together  a  series  of 
slides  from  each  of  our  reunions  since 
graduation.  Some  classmates  shown  are  no 
longer  with  us  and  we  miss  them  very  much. 
Those  of  us  still  around  are  not  as  agile  as 
the  pictures  showed.  That  beautiful  golf 
swing  follow-thru  of  twenty-five  years  ago 
has  been  lost  somewhere  along  the  way. 
These  pictures  made  us  all  feel  so  old  that 
we  adjourned. 

The  moderate  rain  on  Friday  turned 
into  a  downpour  on  Saturday,  necessitating 
the    abandonment    of    all    outdoor    Alumni 


t: 

«p 

m 

%fi} 

A 

:|']H.V 

ffi      ■'      ¥'  mt\ 

ins 

t.   .  uf 

■"-.  ™    '  -QA.JF'  j 

ijBi 

ft    JL  iJw    ■ 

'■*-'  >9  -J  <9k 

ijgjj  -'^^  7 

E^>2-         /*>La*HBl  'Tl 

■-^P 

w  "_t  J^^uH^^K 

m 

-S^H 

Shk^" 

/ 

ft 

- 

1920 


IE  JOURNAL 


41 


1925 


Day  activities.  We  joined  the  Fifty-Year 
Associates  at  their  meeting  in  Daniels  Hall  at 
10:30.  All  other  activities  were  confined  to 
Morgan  Hall  which  was  so  crowded  that  any 
organized  activity  was  impossible.  Our 
colorful  vests  which  were  intended  for  hot, 
outdoor  weather  did  not  show  up  so  well  in 
a  crowded  room,  but  they  should  look 
better  in  the  Class  Picture. 

At  the  Alumni  Luncheon  we  had  an 
opportunity  to  hear  a  discussion  of  the 
reorganization  of  Alumni  activities  which 
has  been  recommended  by  an  Alumni  Com- 
mittee after  intensive  study  and  will  be 
reported  in  detail  elsewhere. 

We  had  an  opportunity  to  hear  President 
George  Hazzard  and  to  receive  individual 
Fifty-Year  Certificates  from  him. 

Mai  Arthur  presented  the  1920  Class 
Gift  of  over  ten  thousand  dollars  to  Presi- 
dent Hazzard.  Since  this  was  entirely  volun- 
tary with  no  personal  solicitation,  we  are 
very  proud  of  the  generous  response. 

We  also  took  the  Attendance  Cup  with 
51%  of  our  members  present  and  Mai 
Arthur  accepted  it  on  behalf  of  the  Class 
with  very  appropriate  words  of  apprecia- 
tion. 

We  then  went  our  way  in  the  rain  with 
the  hope  that  we  may  all  meet  again  in 
1975. 

Fred  Butler,  Secretary 


1930 


CLASS  OF  1925 

The  Class  of  1925  had  a  very  small 
turn-out   this  year  for  their  45th   Reunion. 

The  Reunion  activities  were  arranged  by 
Roy  Payne  and  the  first  activity  of  the 
weekend  was  a  dinner  party  at  the  Worces- 
ter Country  Club.  On  Saturday,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Class  who  were  in  attendance 
participated  in  the  Reunion  activities  on  the 
campus. 

The  Class  is  looking  forward  to  its  50th 
Reunion  in  1975. 


CLASS  OF  1930 

One  of  the  largest  turnouts  in  years  for 
the  class  of  1930  showed  up  for  the 
get-together  and  dinner  at  the  Worcester 
Country  Club  the  afternoon  and  evening  of 
June  5,  1970.  Four  played  golf  as  the 
weather  was  not  the  best. 

One  hundred  seventeen  cards  were  sent 
out  and  we  had  replies  from  seventy-five, 
which  I  do  not  consider  a  good  return. 
Thirty-four  members  signed  up  for  dinner, 
but  due  to  sickness,  etc.  only  thirty-one 
showed  up.  Twenty-six  wives  and  four 
guests  were  present. 

After  a  delicious  steak  dinner,  the  new 
President  of  WPI,  Dr.  Hazzard.  gave  an 
interesting    talk    after    which    our    feature 


42 


THE  JOURNAI 


1935 


speaker.  Professor  Wellman,  retired  from  the 
M.E.  Department,  gave  a  most  interesting 
talk  on  the  good  old  days  from  1908  till 
1926.  Stories  and  even  a  song  or  two 
brought  the  memories  of  those  years  back 
to  us. 

Dan  O'Grady,  our  nominating  chairman, 
submitted  the  slate  for  the  next  five  years 
of:  "Charlie"  Fay  for  President,  Gene 
Center  for  Vice  President  and  Carl  Back- 
strom  for  Secretary-Treasurer.  They  were 
quickly  voted  in  before  they  could  change 
their  minds. 

Several  people  were  unable  to  attend  the 
reunion  for  one  reason  or  another,  and  their 
letters  or  remarks  made  on  the  return  cards 
were  read  to  the  group. 

Two  of  our  class  came  back  for  the  first 
time  in  forty  years.  They  were  Bob  Hollick 
and  wife  and  "Ed"  Delano,  both  from 
California.  Ed  Delano  did  it  the  hard  way, 
by  bicycle,  being  thirty-one  days  en  route. 
(See  the  story  about  him  elsewhere  in  the 
Journal). 

After  our  dinner  meeting,  dancing  was 
enjoyed  by  many  along  with  the  class  of 
1940. 

Saturday  the  rain  still  came  down  and 
the  class  picture  was  held  inside.  We  all  had 
plastic  white  hats  with  1930  on  them  and 
made  quite  a  group. 

After  the  annual  Alumni  luncheon, 
thirty-five  members  and  wives  went  to 
Charlie  Fay's  home  in  Sterling  where  we 
enjoyed  a  real  good  get-together  over  late 
afternoon  refreshments,  and  it  was  a  fitting 
way  to  close  out  the  40th  reunion. 

Thank  you,  Charlie  and  Ingrid,  for  the 
use  of  your  home. 


THE  JOURNAL 


Plans  have  already  been  started  for  our 
45th  and  50th  reunions  and  also  the  class 
gift.  You  will  be  hearing  about  these  later 
this  year. 

The  following  members  were  present 
either  at  the  Worcester  Country  Club  on 
Friday  or  the  Alumni  Luncheon  on  Satur- 
day, most  of  them  at  both: 

Henry  Allen,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carl  Back- 
strom,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gene  Center,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  Bennett,  "Wally"  Carlson,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Charles  Cole,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John 
Conley,    Mr.    and    Mrs.    Joe    Cogshill,    Al 


Corbin,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Davidson, 
"Ed"  Delano,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charlie  Fay,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Thomas  Flynn,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Walt 
French,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carmelo  Greco,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  "Line"  Hathaway,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Goodnow,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Hollick,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Dan  Horgan,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Irving 
Joseph,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fran  Kennedy,  Pro- 
fessor and  Mrs.  "Bill"  Locke,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
George  Marston,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Percy 
Marsaw,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  McLoughlin, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  "Al"  Narter,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
"Dan"  O'Grady,  Dean  and  Mrs.  Lawrence 
Price,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  "Bim"  Purcell,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  "Joe"  Tawter,  "Tommy"  Tompkins, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vernon  Wade,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Warren  Whittum,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harold 
Williamson,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellis  Whitaker. 
Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1935 

Thirty-three  members  of  the  Class  of 
1935  enjoyed  a  very  pleasant  evening  at  The 
Old  Mill  in  Fitchburg  on  Friday  evening, 
June  5.  After  a  delicious  buffet-style  dinner, 
our  class  Vice  President,  Marsh  Dann,  acted 
as  master  of  ceremonies,  giving  everyone  a 
chance  to  expound  on  his  accomplishments 
over  the  past  thirty-five  years.  I  think  one 
could  say  our  greatest  success  in  life  was  the 
number  of  children  and  grandchildren  by 
the  members  with  the  able  support  of  their 
respective  wives.  A  few  of  the  members 
were  sporting  beards,  mustaches  or  both, 
but  there  seemed  to  be  a  scarcity  of  hair 
rather  than  an  excessive  amount  of  it.  Allan 
Hardy  won  the  honor  of  having  the  young- 
est   child,    Christopher,    12    years   old.   Jo 


1940 


43 


Jodaitis  had  the  greatest  number  of  grand- 
children -  six.  Lester  Libby  of  Los  Altos 
Hills,  California  came  the  greatest  distance. 

A  short  business  meeting  was  held  and 
Marsh  Dann  was  elected  President  with 
Allan  Hardy  as  Vice  President.  Gordon 
Swift  was  elected  chairman  of  the  1975 
reunion.  Jack  Healy  showed  some  films 
taken  at  WPI  back  in  1932-1933  which 
proved  most  amusing. 

The  1970  reunion  committee  with  Ted 
Cole  as  chairman  are  to  be  congratulated  on 
a  job  well  done.  Booklets  with  a  complete 
class  roster  were  presented  to  each  member 
with  Len  Humphrey  the  editor,  aided  by 
Jean  Wiley  who  designed  the  cover.  Those 
members  fortunate  enough  to  attend  are  as 
follows:  Mark  Abelson,  Austin  Coates,  Ted 
Cole,  Ed  Cronin,  Marsh  Dann,  Phil  Dean, 
Joe  Glasser,  Ray  Granger,  Jim  Gushaw,  Pret 
Hadley,  Al  Hardy,  Fran  Harrington,  Jack 
Healy,  Len  Humphrey,  Jo  Jodaitis,  Joe 
Johnson,  Rog  Lawton,  Hal  LeDuc,.  Les 
Libby,  Ted  McKinley,  Don  MacMillan,  Ray 
Moeller,  Homer  Morrison,  Roily  Nims, 
Charlie  Puffer,  Vic  Sepavich,  Don  Sleeper, 
Dave  Smythe,  Ray  Starrett,  Roy  Swenson, 
Speed  Swift,  Doug  Watkins  and  Plum  Wiley. 
Ray  Starrett,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1940 

Forty-three  classmates  and  wives 
gathered  June  5-7  for  our  30th  reunion. 
Activities  began  on  Friday  at  Worcester 
Country  Club  with  lunch,  bowling,  golf  and 
a  tour  of  the  Worcester  Craft  Center  — 
followed  by  a  Dinner/Program/Dance  until 
midnight  and  beyond. 

Ray  Forkey  served  as  Master  of  Ceremo- 
nies and  introduced  College  President,  Dr. 
George  W.  Hazzard,  who  outlined  major 
college  changes  during  the  past  year  and 
indicated  further  innovations  in  the  years 
ahead.  Dr.  Al  Schweiger  (Honorary  Class- 
mate) and  Phyllis  joined  us  for  the  evening 
with  Al  reminiscing  interesting  past  times 
and  updating  certain  Institute  programs. 

Treasurer,  Frank  Crosby,  reported  a 
balance  in  our  account  of  $238  and  a  charge 
of  S12  per  person  for  the  evening  and 
costumes.  Frank  also  announced  a  total  of 
S24.829  in  our  Wat  Tyler  Cluverius  Class  of 
1940  Scholarship  Fund  with  the  income  of 
about  S1000  per  year  going  to  student  aid. 
After  discussion,  it  was  voted  unanimously 
to  promote  the  doubling  of  this  fund  during 
the  next  10  years  through  contributions  by 
the  Class  of  1940  above  and  beyond  the 
regular  Alumni  Fund. 

A  moment  of  silence  was  observed  for 
deceased  members  during  the  past  five 
years:  Dan  Rosenthal,  Ken  Fowler.  Walt 
Graham  and  Ben  Lambert. 


Historian  Fritz  Johanson  reported  on 
the  68  returned  questionnaires. 

Clark  Goodchild  displayed  the  variety  of 
class  reunion  decorations  of  parasols,  sun- 
flowers, headband-feathers  and  balloons. 
Ken  Blaisdell  distributed  some  40  door 
prizes.  Also  in  attendance  were  our  two 
trustees,  Ray  Forkey  and  Howard  Freeman. 
Alumni  President,  Bob  Higgs,  outlined  WPI 
Association  activities  of  the  past  year. 

Each  attendee  gave  a  thumbnail  sketch 
of  his  present  activities.  The  most  spectacu- 
lar member  was  bearded  Rolfe  Johnson  who 
flew  in  from  Milwaukee  in  his  own  plane. 
Randy  Whitehead  entertained  at  the  piano. 

Others  in  attendance  included  Frank 
Gustafson,  Bob  Hewey,  Dave  Kuniholm, 
Bob  Dunklee,  Russ  Lovell,  Dick  Messinger, 
Art  Morin,  John  Peters,  Mike  Sadick,  Tarry 
Terkanian,  Ev  Smith  and  Fran  Stone. 

Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1945 

The  25th  anniversary  reunion  brought 
36  members  of  the  Class  of  1945,  most  of 
them  with  their  wives,  to  the  celebration  at 
the  Yankee  Drummer  Inn  in  Auburn  on 
June  6,  following  the  Alumni  Day  activities 
on  the  campus. 

The  class  voted  to  give  its  anniversary 
gift  to  WPI  for  the  purchase  of  library 
books.  George  Kennedy  served  as  master  of 
ceremonies  during  the  presentation  of  prizes 
for  several  categories  of  unique  accomplish- 
ments. Included  was  the  first  presentation 
of  the   1945  "Oh   My  Goddard"  award  to 


Anson  Fyler  who  earlier  in  the  day  had 
been  presented  the  Alumni  Association's 
Goddard  Award.  The  small  ceramic  trophy 
with  the  finger  grip  handle  was  duly  in- 
scribed with  a  message  indicating  that  we 
feel  he  is  still  just  one  of  the  boys. 

Statistics  gathered  before  the  reunion, 
with  sixty  members  responding,  gave  a 
picture  of  pure  "Establishment".  All  who 
replied  have  married,  and  only  one  reported 
a  divorce  and  remarriage.  The  average  '45 
has  3.3  children,  lives  in  a  single  family 
house  in  a  community  of  50,000  or  less, 
owns  two  cars  and  participates  in  commu- 
nity or  political  activities.  More  than  half 
have  never  smoked  or  gave  it  up.  The 
complete  statistics  are  available  in  an  anni- 
versary yearbook  available  from  Roger  Perry 
at  WPI. 

Those  attending  the  reunion  included: 
Frank  C.  Baginski,  John  C.  Bayer,  Edward 
C.  Berndt,  Jr.,  James  J.  Clerkin,  Paul  M. 
Craig,  Jr.,  Eugene  W.  Cray,  William  P. 
Densmore,  Howard  Dember,  Robert  M. 
Edgerly,  Richard  S.  Fitts,  Martin  R.  Flink, 
Jr.,  Anson  C.  Fyler,  Olle  H.  Halttunen,  John 
T.  Hegeman,  Burton  L.  Hinman,  William  C. 
Howard,  John  P.  Hyde,  Tex  Hoyt,  John  H. 
Jacoby,  Charles  H.  Johnson,  Franklin  S. 
June,  George  J.  Kennedy,  Owen  W. 
Kennedy,  Jr.,  Paul  N.  Kokulis,  Ernest  R. 
Kretzmer,  Robert  W.  Lotz,  Walter  P. 
Matzelevich,  Charles  A.  Morse,  Jr.,  Roger  N. 
Perry,  Jr.,  Roger  P.  Roberge,  Robert  E. 
Scott,  Lionel  H.  Seccomber,  Jr.,  Charles  C. 
Shattuck,  Edward  I.  Swanson,  John  A. 
Templeton,  George  V.  Uihlein,  Jr. 

Philip  Sheridan,  Secretary 


1945 


44 


THE  JOURNAL 


BURTON  ADAMS  PRINCE,  '98 

BURTON  ADAMS  PRINCE,  '98,  died 
on  May  13,  1967,  at  the  age  of  90.  His  last 
address  was  Clive  Road,  Southwick,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Mr.  Prince  was  born  on  October  27, 
1876  in  Worcester  and  attended  Worcester 
High  School.  In  1898,  after  receiving  his 
diploma  in  mechanical  engineering  from 
WPI,  he  enlisted  in  the  2nd  Massachusetts 
Volunteers  and  fought  in  Cuba  with  Teddy 
Roosevelt.  He  also  went  to  France  during 
World  War  I  with  the  YMCA.  He  helped 
establish  the  Westfield  (Mass.)  Trade  School 
in  1911  and  was  its  first  director.  He  was 
employed  for  35  years  as  a  bridge  engineer 
with  the  Irving  Iron  Works  Co. 

In  1903,  he  married  the  former  Nettie 
Oakley.  They  had  no  children. 

M.  CLIFTON  NELSON,  '02 

M.  CLIFTON  NELSON,  '02,  died  on 
February  27,  1970,  at  his  home,  558 
Shrewsbury  Street,  Holden,  Mass.  He  was 
88. 

Mr.  Nelson  was  born  in  Worcester  in 
1881  and  attended  English  High  School.  He 
studied  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 

After  graduation  he  held  various  super- 
visory positions  with  several  Worcester  area 
companies,  until  1922  when  he  became 
president  of  Rolled  Thread  Die  Company  in 
Worcester.  In  1932  he  became  the  pro- 
prietor of  Beacon  Thread  Rolling  Die  Com- 
pany, also  in  Worcester,  and  remained  there 
until  his  retirement  in  1952. 

Among  his  survivors  is  his  nephew, 
Forrest  S.  Nelson,  WPI,  '28.  In  1905  he 
married  the  former  Ella  Louise  Knight. 
They  had  four  children:  Mrs.  Louise  Wood- 
row;  Donald  K.;  Mrs.  Barbara  Johnson  and 
Howard  S. 

ARTHUR  ALEXANDER  ARNOLD,  '03 

ARTHUR  ALEXANDER  ARNOLD, 
'03,  died  at  Beverly  (Mass.)  Hospital  on 
January  14,  1970.  He  was  88. 

Born  in  Webster,  Mass.,  in  1881,  he 
attended  the  local  schools.  At  WPI  he 
studied  mechanical  engineering. 

Among  the  companies  for  which  Mr. 
Arnold  worked  during  his  career  were: 
American  Optical  Company  in  Southbridge, 
Mass.  as  a  mechanical  and  development 
engineer;  A.  C.  Gilbert  Company  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.,  as  chief  engineer;  R.  Wallace 


and  Sons,  Silversmiths,  in  Wallingford, 
Conn.,  as  a  development  engineer;  and 
finally,  Olin  Mathieson  Corporation's  Win- 
chester Western  Div.  in  New  Haven,  Conn, 
in  various  engineering  capacities.  He  retired 
in  1954. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  the  former  Nellie  M. 
Stowe  of  West  Millbury,  Mass.;  a  son, 
Arthur  A.,  Jr.;  two  grandchildren;  and  two 
great-grandchildren. 

RUSSELL  WILLIAM  MAGNA,  '04 

RUSSELL  WILLIAM  MAGNA,  '04, 
died  on  January  30,  1970  at  the  age  of  91. 
His  last  address  was  770  Florence  Rd., 
Northampton,  Mass. 

Born  in  1878  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  Mr. 
Magna  attended  Holyoke  (Mass.)  High 
School.  He  majored  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering at  WPI  and  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity. 

In  1905  he  created  the  Magna  Auto- 
mobile Co.,  in  Holyoke,  Mass.  He  was 
president  and  treasurer  until  his  retirement 
in  1959.  Mr.  Magna  once  recalled  that  in  the 
early  days  of  automobiles,  a  salesman's  first 
job  in  selling  was  teaching  the  buyer  to 
drive. 

RAYMOND  CHESTER  WILLIAMS,  '07 

RAYMOND  CHESTER  WILLIAMS, 
'07,  passed  away  on  May  10,  1970  in 
Columbus,  Ohio. 

Mr.  Williams  was  born  in  Conway,  Mass. 
on  October  27,  1883  and  attended  Orange 
(Mass.)  High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in 
1902  and  majored  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering. He  graduated  in  1907. 

Mr.  Williams  spent  most  of  his  business 
career  in  the  paper  industry.  On  graduation 
from  WPI  he  went  to  work  for  the  U.S. 
Envelope  Company  in  Worcester,  Mass.  and 
later  transferred  to  U.S.  Envelope  Company 
operations,  first  in  Cincinnati  and  then  in 
Indianapolis  in  1916.  In  1920  he  joined  the 
Central  Ohio  Paper  Company  and  opened  an 
envelope  manufacturing  plant  as  part  of 
their  wholesale  paper  business  in  Columbus, 
Ohio.  He  managed  this  operation  for  thirty 
years  until  his  retirement  in  1950. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Linnie  K. 
Williams;  a  son,  Benjamin  K.  Williams;  two 
grandchildren;  and  five  great-grandchildren. 

FRANK  MONZON  AGUIRRE,  '09 

FRANK  MONZON  AGUIRRE,  '09, 
passed  away  in  Hialeah,  Florida  on  May  19, 
1970. 


Mr.  Aguirre  was  born  on  Sept.  23,  1887 
in  Brooklyn,  New  York.  He  attended  Cush- 
ing  Academy,  Ashburnham,  Mass.  before 
entering  WPI  in  the  fall  of  1904.  He 
graduated  in  1909  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  civil  engineering.  While  at 
WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
fraternity  and  also  was  the  founder  and  first 
president  of  the  Cosmopolitan  Club. 

Mr.  Aguirre  spent  fifty-one  years  of  his 
life  in  Latin  America,  forty-two  of  these  in 
what  he  once  termed  a  "prosperous  Cuba" 
and  another  four  years  in  what  he  also 
termed  "a  destroyed  Cuba." 

After  graduation,  Mr.  Aguirre  moved  to 
Cuba  to  the  town  of  Cienfuegos  and  con- 
tinued to  be  employed  in  that  area  for 
several  more  years  until  1928,  when  he  did 
public  utilities  investigations  in  the  coun- 
tries of  Peru,  Chile  and  Argentina.  In  1929 
he  returned  to  Cuba,  and  except  for  brief 
periods  after  that  time,  remained  there  until 
1938  when  he  became  Division  Manager, 
Santa  Clara,  Cia  Cubana  de  Electricidad,  an 
electric  company  serving  one  and  one-half 
million  people,  and  fifty-six  cities  and 
towns. 

He  was  active  in  the  American  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers,  College  of  Cuban  Civil 
Engineers,  Sociedad  Argentina  de  Lumini- 
cultura,  Rotary  Club  and  the  Red  Cross. 

VAUGHN  DAVID  GRIFFIN,  '12 

VAUGHN  DAVID  GRIFFIN,  '12,  died 
on  January  27,  1970,  in  Ormond  Beach, 
Florida,  Memorial  Hospital,  at  the  age  of  80. 
He  lived  at  429  Ocean  Shore  Boulevard  in 
Ormond  Beach. 

Mr.  Griffin  was  born  in  1889  in  Hen- 
niker.  New  Hampshire,  and  went  to  Man- 
chester (N.H.)  High  School.  He  studied 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI.  His  frater- 
nity was  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Mr.  Griffin  and  his  late  brother  owned 
and  operated  a  shoe  company  in  Man- 
chester, N.H.  until  1924,  when  he  joined 
Northwestern  Mutual  Life  Ins.  Co.  in  Man- 
chester as  a  special  agent.  He  retired  in  1959 
after  30  years  as  a  general  agent. 

His  memberships  included  the  Kiwanis 
Club  and  the  Masons. 

Survivors  include  his  wife,  the  former 
Beatrice  Bays;  two  sons,  Willard  H.  and 
Frederick  W.;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Jane 
Greene  and  Mrs.  Danylee  Glick;  and  13 
grandchildren. 

COL.  COBURN  LEE  BERRY,  '16 

Col.  COBURN  LEE  BERRY,  '16, 
U.S.A.  (retired),  died  on  February  28,  1970 
at  the  Naval  Hospital  in  Pensacola,  Florida 
after  a  long  illness.  His  last  address  was  428 
South  2nd  St.,  Warrington,  Florida. 

Born  in  1894  in  Portland,  Maine,  he 
attended  the  local  high  school.  He  majored 
in  chemistry  at  WPI. 


THE  JOURNAL 


45 


Col.  Berry  joined  the  army  in  1917  and 
spent  18  months  in  France  during  World 
War  I,  during  which  he  was  promoted  to 
captain.  After  the  war  he  returned  to 
America  and  served  as  battery  commander 
at  such  posts  as  Fort  Warren,  Mass.;  Fort 
Monroe,  Va.;  Fort  Arrancas,  Fla.;  Forts 
Amador  and  Randolph,  Canal  Zone;  and 
Fort  Hancock,  N.J.  In  1935  he  was  pro- 
moted to  major  and  went  to  the  University 
of  Minnesota  on  ROTC  duty.  In  1940,  as  an 
instructor  in  the  Minnesota  National  Guard, 
he  became  a  lieutenant  colonel.  Later  he 
went  to  Camp  Wallace,  Texas  as  battalion 
commander,  group  commander  and  execu- 
tive officer.  There,  in  1941,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  colonel.  In  1942  he  became 
director  of  the  Div.  of  Training  Publications, 
Antiaircraft  Artillery  School,  at  Camp 
Davis,  N.C.,  where  he  remained  until  his 
retirement  in  1944. 

In  1923  he  married  the  former  Mary 
Ann  Cowley.  They  had  two  daughters,  Mary 
Lee  and  Patricia  Ann. 

HERBERT  NELSON  EATON,  '16 

HERBERT  NELSON  EATON,  '16,  died 
on  April  18,  1970,  at  the  Avalon  Manor 
Nursing  Home  in  Hagerstown,  Md.  He  was 
77. 

Mr.  Eaton  was  born  on  November  4, 
1892,  in  Auburn,  Mass.  He  attended  Rindge 
Manual  Training  School  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  and  majored  in  civil  engineering  at 
WPI.  He  received  an  AM  from  Johns 
Hopkins  University  in  1923.  He  was  a 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Sigma  Xi, 
and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Mr.  Eaton  retired  in  1953  after  32  years 
with  the  National  Bureau  of  Standards  in 
Washington,  D.C.  For  the  past  17  years,  he 
was  an  engineering  consultant. 

His  memberships  included  ASME  and 
the  National  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  the  former  Hazel 
Kefover;  two  sons,  Herbert  N.  and  Arthur 
M.;  and  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Jacob  Ornstein. 

PHILIP  EUGENE  BARKER,  '17 

PHILIP  EUGENE  BARKER,  '17,  died 
suddenly  on  January  20,  1970.  He  lived  in 
Clearwater,  Florida. 

Born  in  Orange,  Mass.  on  March  22, 
1896,  he  attended  the  local  high  school.  He 
majored  in  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI 
and  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi. 

After  serving  in  France  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineers  during  World  War  I,  he  was 
employed  by  the  New  Home  Sewing  Ma- 
chine Co.  in  Orange  until  1930.  when  he 
joined  the  Pneumatic  Scale  Corp.  Ltd.,  in 
Quincy,  Mass.  He  retired  in  1958  as  assistant 
treasurer.  He  was  a  Mason  and  belonged  to 


the  National  Association  of  Accountants. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  the  former 
Marie  L.  Ladd;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Jane  Lesh; 
and  three  grandchildren. 

SETH  GREENLEAF  SMITH,  '17 

SETH  GREENLEAF  SMITH,  '17, 
passed  away  unexpectedly  at  his  home  in 
Amherst,  N.H.  in  April,  1970. 

He  was  born  March  5,  1893  in  Nashua, 
N.H.  and  attended  Concord  (N.H.)  High 
School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1912  and 
majored  in  mechanical  engineering. 

Mr.  Smith  spent  several  years  in  the 
Hartford,  Conn,  and  Springfield,  Mass.  area 
working  as  an  engineer  for  Bay  State  Forge 
Co.,  Gilbert  and  Barker  Mfg.  Co.  and  Storms 
Drop  Forging  Co.  He  was  later  employed  as 
a  safety  engineer  for  the  Heald  Machine  Co. 
in  Worcester,  Mass.  and  lived  for  the  past 
eight  years  in  Amherst,  N.H. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Meredith 
Peirce  Smith;  a  son,  Seth  G.  of  Somerset, 
N.H.;  and  three  grandsons  and  a  niece. 

JOHN  DAVID  STORRS,  '18 

JOHN  DAVID  STORRS,  '18,  passed 
away  on  April  7,  1970  at  Cape  Cod  Hospi- 
tal, Hyannis,  Mass.  after  a  brief  illness. 

He  was  born  on  July  11,  1896  at 
Hastings,  Maine  and  attended  Newport  (Vt.) 
High  School  and  Bordentown  Military  Insti- 
tution before  entering  WPI  in  1914.  He 
graduated  in  1918  with  a  degree  in  mechan- 
ical engineering.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity 
and  Skull  as  well  as  being  a  football  player 
and  a  member  of  the  WPI  Athletic  Associa- 
tion and  Interfraternity  Council. 

Mr.  Storrs  went  to  work  for  the  Kinney 
Mfg.  Co.,  Boston,  Mass.,  as  a  tool  designer 
after  his  graduation.  He  was  employed  by 
that  company  for  forty  years  as  assistant 
chief  engineer.  In  1958  he  left  to  join  the 
U.S.  Navy  Public  Works,  Boston  Div.,  as 
supervising  mechanical  engineer.  In  1961  he 
retired.  He  had  been  a  resident  of  Cum- 
maquid,  Mass.  for  eight  years  at  the  time  of 
his  death. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  Mildred  (Lovis) 
Storrs;  two  sons,  Mansur  and  Barrie;  and 
two  daughters. 

LEROY  W.  VINAL,  '18 

LEROY  W.  VINAL,  '18,  died  at  his 
home  on  April  26,  1970  after  a  short  illness. 

Born  March  10,  1895  in  Leominster, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Leominster  High  School 
and  entered  WPI  in  1914.  He  was  a  mechani- 
cal engineering  major  and  graduated  in 
1918.  He  was  a  member  of  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha  Fraternity  and  was  active  on  the 
tennis  team.  He  was  tennis  team  captain  in 
1918. 

A  lifelong  resident  of  Leominster,  Mass., 
he  worked  for  E.  I.  DuPont  de  Nemours  & 


Co.  until  his  retirement  ten  years  ago. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Pearl  M. 
(Farnsworth)  Vinal;  a  son,  William  of  North- 
boro,  Mass.;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  David 
MacDonald  of  Wayland;  and  seven  grand- 
children. 

HOWARD  A.  MAYO,  '19 

HOWARD  A.  MAYO,  '19,  passed  away 
in  Marlboro,  Mass.  hospital  on  April  4, 
1970.  He  was  73. 

Born  in  Wellesley,  Mass.,  February  18, 
1897,  he  attended  secondary  school  at 
Framingham  High  School.  He  entered  WPI 
in  1915  and  graduated  in  1919  with  a  BS 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

Mr.  Mayo  was  a  well-known  water 
power  specialist  with  a  detailed  technical 
knowledge  of  hydroelectric  equipment  and 
its  economic  application.  He  served  the 
water  power  users  and  their  consulting 
engineers  for  more  than  45  years.  He  was 
manager  of  the  New  England  office  of  S. 
Morgan  Smith  Co.  until  his  retirement  in 
1965.  Many  of  the  New  England  pump- 
storage  sites  are  under  study  today  as  a 
result  of  his  personal  efforts  promoting  the 
new  type  of  hydro-electric  power  source. 
For  the  last  several  years  he  had  been 
associated  with  Alonzo  B.  Reed,  Inc., 
engineering  consultants  of  Boston. 

He  was  elected  a  trustee  of  WPI  in  June, 
1948  and  served  two  terms  as  a  member  of 
that  Board.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers, 
the  Newcomen  Society  in  North  America 
and  had  served  on  the  Bolton,  Mass.  park 
commission  since  its  inception  in  1948.  He 
was  also  a  member  of  the  Masons  and  the 
Bolton  Historical  Society. 

Besides  his  widow,  Dorothy  (Ordway) 
Mayo,  he  leaves  three  sons,  two  brothers, 
two  sisters  and  seven  grandchildren. 

ROGER  M.  LELAND,  '22 

ROGER  M.  LELAND,  '22,  died 
suddenly  in  Glover  Memorial  Hospital  in 
Needham,  Mass.  on  May  5,  1970.  He  was 
74. 

Mr.  Leland  was  born  on  March  3,  1896 
and  entered  WPI  in  1919.  While  at  WPI  he 
was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 
fraternity. 

Born  in  Winchester,  Mass.,  and  a  resi- 
dent of  Needham  for  the  past  six  years,  he 
was  formerly  of  Wellesley,  Mass.  He  was  a 
salesman  of  chemicals  for  the  Rust-Lick  Co. 
of  Boston  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

Mr.  Leland  had  also  attended  MIT  and 
had  served  his  country  as  an  officer  with  the 
army  in  World  War  I.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  American  Society  of  Tool  and  Manufac- 
turing Engineers  and  a  number  of  profes- 
sional societies. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Grace  (Cros- 


46 


THE  JOURNAL 


by)  Leland  of  Needham,  two  daughters  and 
nine  grandchildren. 

WALLACE  C.  HATHAWAY,  '23 

WALLACE  C.  HATHAWAY,  '23,  passed 
away  on  January  25,  1970  in  Providence,  R. 
I.  He  was  68. 

Born  on  January  31,  1901  at  Somerset, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Fall  River  Technical  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  in  1918.  He 
graduated  in  1923  with  a  BS  degree  in  civil 
engineering  and  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha  Fraternity. 

Mr.  Hathaway  had  been  self-employed 
for  many  years  as  an  owner  in  the  firm  of 
Hathaway  and  Davis,  a  certified  public 
accountant  firm  located  in  Fall  River,  Mass. 
He  was  a  member  of  the  A.I.C.P.A.,  Rhode 
Island  SCPA,  the  Rotary  and  the  Lions 
Clubs. 

Among  the  survivors  are  his  widow, 
Helen  (Lawton)  Hathaway. 

THOMAS  L.  COUNIHAN,  '24 

THOMAS  L.  COUNIHAN,  '24,  passed 
away  in  Florham  Park,  N.J.  on  June  2, 
1970.  He  was  67. 

A  loyal  and  devoted  alumnus,  Mr. 
Counihan  was  born  on  February  12,  1903  in 
Worcester,  Mass.  and  attended  Classical  High 
School  in  Worcester.  He  entered  WPI  in 
1920  and  graduated  in  1924  with  a  BS 
degree  in  chemistry.  He  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Kappa  Theta  Fraternity. 

He  began  his  industrial  career  in  1924  at 
Crompton  &  Knowles  Loom  Works  in 
Worcester,  working  as  a  metallurgist.  Over 
the  next  13  years  he  held  positions  with 
Indian  Motorcycle  Co.,  Greenfield  Tap  & 
Die  Co.,  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel  Co.,  all  as  a 
metallurgist,  and  in  1939  he  joined  the 
Hyatt  Bearings  Division  of  the  General 
Motors  Corp.  as  assistant  chief  metallurgist. 
In  1942  he  was  promoted  to  chief 
metallurgist  with  that  division  which  he  held 
until  his  retirement. 

A  popular  and  hardworking  alumnus, 
Mr.  Counihan  was  often  an  officer  of  the 
Northern  New  Jersey  Alumni  Chapter, 
serving  that  chapter  as  President,  Vice 
President,  and  as  a  Council  Representative 
over  the  years.  As  a  member  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Council  he  served  on  the  executive 
committee  as  member-at-large,  as  a  junior 
vice  president  and  as  a  senior  vice  president 
in  1954-1955.  He  also  served  the  Alumni 
Association  as  a  member  of  the  Alumni 
Fund  Board  for  six  years  from  1951-1957 
and  served  his  alma  mater  as  a  trustee  of  the 
Institute  from  1958-1968.  In  June,  1966  he 
received  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for 
outstanding  service  to  his  alma  mater. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Metals,  American  Society  of 
Testing  &  Materials,  Society  of  Automotive 


Engineers   and   the  Metal  Science  Club  of 
New  York. 

Mr.  Counihan  leaves  his  wife,  Mrs. 
Theresa  Q.  Counihan. 

ALLEN  C.  KIMBALL,  '24 

ALLEN  C.  KIMBALL,  '24,  passed  away 
on  April  22,  1970  in  Acton,  Mass.  He  was 
68. 

He  was  a  graduate  of  Worcester  Acad- 
emy and  he  entered  WPI  in  1920.  A  retired 
fruit  grower,  he  had  been  associated  with  his 
brother  in  the  operation  of  Kimball  Fruit 
Farm  in  Pepperell,  Mass.  since  1922. 

Mr.  Kimball  is  survived  by  his  widow, 
Louise  (Hills)  Kimball,  a  daughter,  three 
sisters  and  a  brother. 

PAUL  R.  MARSH,  '24 

PAUL  R.  MARSH,  '24,  passed  away  at 
the  age  of  79  on  May  9,  1970  at  the  Central 
Vermont  Hospital  in  Berlin,  Vt.  following  a 
short  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Maynard,  Mass.  January 
23,  1891.  He  attended  Springfield,  Mass. 
schools  and  was  a  graduate  of  Central  High 
School  there  in  1908. 

Mr.  Marsh  also  attended  Norwich  Uni- 
versity where  he  received  a  BS  degree  and 
was  a  five  sport  athletic  standout.  He  was 
also  a  former  All-Western  Massachusetts 
football  player.  He  received  his  master's 
degree  in  education  from  Boston  University 
and   spent  32  years  in  various  positions  in 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  .  . 

Perhaps  you  can't  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  oivn  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $29.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON   ROCKER 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  27 J-^" 
Price:  $34.00 


the  Springfield,  Mass.  school  system,  hold- 
ing the  position  of  director  of  research  at 
the  time  of  his  retirement.  He  spent  the 
years  of  his  retirement  in  Vermont. 

Mr.  Marsh  was  with  the  Vermont  Na- 
tional Guard  as  a  first  lieutenant  and  in  the 
Mass.  State  Guard  as  a  lieutenant  colonel 
during  World  War  II.  He  was  a  member  of 
Theta  Chi  Fraternity,  Masons  and  the 
American  Legion. 

He  is  survived  by  a  son,  Robert  F.  of 
Northfield,  Vt.  and  a  daughter  of  Agawam, 
Mass.,  along  with  five  grandchildren. 


ALFRED  K.  MORGAN,  '24 

ALFRED  K.  MORGAN,  '24,  passed 
away  on  October  15,  1969. 

Mr.  Morgan  was  born  on  April  22,  1901 
in  North  Andover,  Mass.  and  attended  Man- 
chester, N.H.  High  School.  He  entered  WPI 
in  1920  and  graduated  from  MIT  in  1925 
with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering.  While 
at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
Fraternity  and  Skull. 

Since  1940  he  had  been  chief  engineer 
and  general  manager  of  the  Palisades  Inter- 
state Park  Commission.  In  this  position  with 
the  park  commission  he  was  responsible  for 
the  operation  of  such  parks  as  Palisades, 
Storm  King  and  Bear  Mountain  among 
others. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society   of   Civil    Engineers,   the  American 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back :  2 1 " 
Price:  $41.00      (Black  Arms) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $42.00     (Cherry  Arms) 


Send  your  remittance  and  make  checks  payable  to 

W.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

All  chairs  shipped  F.O.B.,  Gardner,  Mass. 


HE  JOURNAL 


47 


Society  of  Professional  Engineers,  and  the 
New  York  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers. 

THOMAS  G.  WRIGHT,  '25 

THOMAS  G.  WRIGHT,  '25,  passed 
away  on  April  22,  1970  in  Fort  Lauderdale, 
Fla.  He  was  66. 

Born  on  October  13,  1903  in  Worcester, 
Mass.  he  attended  secondary  schools  at  the 
Palmer,  Mass.  High  School  prior  to  entering 
WPI  in  1921.  He  graduated  in  1925  with  a 
BS  degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  He  was 
a  member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  Fraternity, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and  Skull. 

Upon  graduation  from  WPI,  Mr.  Wright 
joined  Public  Service  of  N.J.  as  an  engineer 
and  later  was  employed  by  Bird  &  Son  of 
East  Walpole,  Mass.  as  assistant  to  the  plant 
engineer.  In  December  of  1930  he  joined 
the  Pittsburgh  Plate  Glass  Co.  of  Pittsburgh, 
Pa.  and  was  associated  with  that  company 
for  33  years.  He  retired  from  PPG  in  1958 
and  had  spent  his  retirement  in  Fort 
Lauderdale. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
Directors  of  Plaza  East  Apartments,  Fort 
Lauderdale,  Florida  and  had  been  active  in 
the  YMCA. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Florence 
Wright,  a  son,  Thomas  Wright,  Jr.  of  Holly- 
wood, Fla.,  two  sisters  and  two  grandsons. 

CHARLES  B.  MUZZY,  '28 

CHARLES  B.  MUZZY,  '28,  passed  away 
in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  on  April  6,  1970. 

Born  on  July  4,  1905  in  Worcester, 
Mass.,  Mr.  Muzzy  had  attended  South  High 
School  in  Worcester  prior  to  his  entrance  at 
WPI  in  1924.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity  and  Skull 
and  he  graduated  in  1928  with  a  BS  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering. 

He  had  worked  for  42  years  for  the  E.D. 
Jones  division  of  the  Beliot  Corp.,  Pittsfield, 
Mass.  with  many  of  those  years  being  spent 
in  the  field  of  sales. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mabel  L.  (Jones) 
Muzzy,  a  son  of  North  Caldwell,  N.J.,  a 
sister  of  Kensington,  Conn,  and  two 
grandsons. 

WILLIAM  J.  THACKER,  '28 

WILLIAM  J.  THACKER,  '28,  passed 
away  at  St.  John's  Hospital  in  Springfield, 
III.  on  March  31,  1970.  He  was  65. 

A  native  of  Monson,  Mass.,  Mr.  Thacker 
was  born  on  Sept.  5,  1904  and  attended 
Monson  Academy.  He  entered  WPI  in  1923 
and  graduated  in  1928  with  a  BS  degree  in 
electrical  engineering.  He  was  a  member  of 
Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 

He  had  been  employed  by  the  General 
Electric  Co.  in  the  sales  department's  distri- 


bution cutout  section  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  for 
25  years  prior  to  moving  to  Springfield,  III. 
in  1954.  In  Springfield  he  was  sales  manager 
of  the  power  capacitor  and  control  section 
of  the  Sangamo  Electric  Co. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  Anne 
(Connolly)  Thacker,  three  daughters  and 
seven  grandchildren. 


MARIO  PAGNONI,  '29 

MARIO  PAGNONI,  '29,  was  pro- 
nounced dead  on  arrival  at  Springfield 
(Mass.)  Hospital  Medical  Center  on  March 
23,  1970  after  collapsing  at  his  home.  He 
was  64. 

Born  in  Italy  on  Feb.  9,  1906,  he  came 
to  this  country  when  he  was  eight  years  old 
and  settled  in  Springfield.  He  attended 
Technical  High  School  in  Springfield  prior 
to  entering  WPI. 

Mr.  Pagnoni  had  been  building  inspector 
for  the  city  of  Springfield,  Mass.  for  30 
years  before  his  retirement  in  1966  because 
of  illness.  For  several  years  he  had  also  had 
his  own  architectural  and  land  surveying 
business.  He  had  also  been  active  in  many 
church,  civic  and  social  organizations. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Filomena 
Pagnoni,  a  son,  Mario  P.  and  a  daughter, 
Claire. 

HARRY  M.  WARDLE,  '32 

HARRY  M.  WARDLE,  '32,  died  on 
March  6,  1970  in  Quincy,  Mass.  after  a  brief 
illness.  He  was  60. 

Born  on  October  3,  1909  in  Nutley, 
N.J.,  Mr.  Wardle  attended  preparatory 
school  at  Worcester  Academy  before  enter- 
ing WPI  in  1928. 

He  had  lived  in  Quincy  for  21  years  and 
was  a  structural  designer  for  Charles  T. 
Main,  Inc.  of  Boston.  He  was  active  in  many 
church  and  school  activities  and  had  been  a 
founder,  past  president  and  member  of  two 
different  Quincy  PTA  groups. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Frances 
Wardle,  three  sons  and  two  sisters. 


JOHN  R.  CASLER,  JR.,  '36 

JOHN  R.  CASLER,  JR.,  '36,  passed 
away  in  Clearwater,  Florida  on  January  30, 
1970. 

Mr.  Casler  was  born  on  November  26, 
1914  in  Northampton,  Mass.  and  attended 
Northampton  High  School  prior  to  entering 
WPI  in  1932.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1936  with  a  BS  degree  and  received  an  MS 
degree  from  WPI  in  1938.  He  was  a  member 
of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi. 

After  graduation  from  WPI  in  1938  he 
accepted  a  position  as  process  engineer  for 


Standard  Oil  Development  Co.  of  N.J.,  a 
position  which  he  held  for  10  years  prior  to 
becoming  assistant  manager  of  Standard  Oil 
Co.  of  Cuba.  In  1952  he  became  process 
superintendent  for  the  International  Petro- 
leum Co.  In  1958  he  went  to  Iran  where  he 
was  employed  by  the  Iranian  Oil  Refining 
Co.  He  retired  from  the  Standard  Oil  Co.  of 
N.J.  in  1963. 

ISAAC  M.  ARENBERG,  '37 

ISAAC  M.  ARENBERG,  '37,  a  resident 
of  Rochester,  Mass.  passed  away  suddenly  in 
Brooklyn,  N.Y.  on  April  26,  1970  while 
visiting  relatives.  He  was  55. 

Born  in  Rochester,  Mass.  June  16,  1914, 
he  attended  Rochester  schools  and  was  a 
graduate  of  Univ.  of  Mass.  in  1936  and  was 
a  member  of  Tau  Epsilon  Pi  Fraternity. 

Mr.  Arenberg  was  a  bus  contractor  and  a 
cranberry  grower.  He  was  owner  and  man- 
ager of  the  Arenberg  Bus  Co.  in  Rochester. 
The  bus  company  served  many  of  the  area 
Rochester  schools.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Lions  Club  and  was  active  in  the  Boy 
Scouts. 

Survivors  include  three  daughters,  one 
brother  and  two  grandchildren. 

CHARLES  R.  DICKSON,  '37 

CHARLES  R.  DICKSON,  '37,  died  on 
March  29,  1970  in  New  England  Baptist 
Hospital  in  Boston.  He  was  57. 

Mr.  Dickson  was  born  August  28,  1912 
in  Paris,  France  and  attended  preparatory 
school  at  St.  George's  School,  Avon  Old 
Farms  in  Avon,  Conn.  He  attended  Brown 
University  before  entering  WPI  in  1933. 

An  Army  veteran  of  World  War  II,  he 
was  a  member  of  the  Hope  Club  in  Provi- 
dence and  the  National  Rifle  Association. 

A  sister,  Mrs.  Julia  Baldridge  of  Middle- 
town,  Conn.,  survives. 

WILLIAM  C.  GREANY,  '37 

WILLIAM  C.  GREANY,  '37,  passed 
away  on  April  27,  1970  at  the  Veterans 
Administration  Hospital,  Jamaica  Plain, 
Mass.  where  he  had  been  a  patient  for  five 
weeks. 

A  native  of  Billerica,  Mass.  he  was  born 
June  5,  1912  and  attended  Wakefield  High 
School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1933  and  also 
received  a  law  degree  from  Suffolk  Uni- 
versity in  1941 . 

A  member  of  a  prominent  Wakefield 
family,  Mr.  Greany  had  been  a  meteoro- 
logist for  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Weather 
Station  at  Rockport.  Mass.  and  also  was 
active  in  a  real  estate  and  a  law  business.  He 
was  formerly  a  member  of  the  American 
Legion. 

He  is  survived  by  his  sister  and  one 
neice. 


48 


THE  JOURNAL 


CARLETON  P.  VINAL,  '37 

CARLETON  P.  VINAL,  '37,  passed 
away  at  his  home  in  Thomaston,  Conn,  on 
November  7,  1969. 

Born  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  on  November 
14,  1914  he  attended  Montclair  High  School 
before  becoming  a  mechanical  engineering 
major  at  WPI  in  1933. 

Mr.  Vinal  had  been  employed  by  the 
Heald  Machine  Co.  in  Worcester,  Simmonds 
Precision  Products  Co.  of  Vergennes,  Vt., 
and  the  Scoville  Manufacturing  Co.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  was  quality  control 
supervisor  for  the  Universal  Industries  divi- 
sion of  Simmonds  Precision  Products  in 
West  Haven,  Conn.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Tool  and  Manu- 
facturing Engineers,  ASQC  and  the  Masons. 

WALTER  P.  RODGERS,  '39 

WALTER  P.  RODGERS,  '39,  died  on 
December  23,  1969  in  Middlesex  General 
Hospital,  New  Brunswick,  N.J.  after  a  long 
illness.  He  was  54. 

Born  in  the  Belgian  Congo,  Africa,  the 
son  of  missionaries,  Mr.  Rodgers  was  a 
graduate  of  Bates  College  in  Lewiston, 
Maine  and  entered  WPI  in  1937.  He  received 
a  BS  degree  in  civil  engineering  in  1939. 

For  two  years  after  his  graduation  from 
WPI  Mr.  Rodgers  was  a  designer  for  the 
Metropolitan  Water  Commission,  Hartford, 
Conn.  In  1941  he  joined  the  American 
Bridge  division  of  the  U.S.  Steel  Corp.  as  an 
engineer.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was 
assistant  national  director  of  engineering  for 
the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  and  was  located 
in  New  Brunswick,  N.J. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Ruth  Springer,  one  daughter,  three  sisters, 
and  one  brother. 

GERALD  J.  SUMMERSON,  '45 

GERALD  J.  SUMMERSON,  '45,  passed 
away  on  April  29,  1969  after  a  long  illness. 

Born  on  November  19,  1923  in  Em- 
porium, Pa.,  he  attended  Emporium  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  in  1943.  He 
graduated  on  October  24,  1944  with  a  BS 
degree  in  civil  engineering. 

Mr.  Summerson  was  employed  by  the 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Highways  for 
five  years  and  by  the  U.S.  Steel  Corp.  from 
1951-1953.  In  1953  he  formed  the  consult- 
ing engineering  firm  of  Pickering  Corts  & 
Summerson,  Inc.  and  was  president  of  that 
corporation  at  the  time  of  his  death.  The 
business  was  located  in  Newtown,  Pa.  He 
also  held  a  commercial  pilots  license. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Highway  Engineers,  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers  and  was  a 
licensed  engineer  in  Pa.,  N.J.,  N.Y.  and  W. 
Va. 


He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Julia,  of 
Newtown,  Pa.  and  three  children. 


RICHARD  L.  TRACY,  '48 

A  prominent  Worcester  area  citizen  and 
devoted  WPI  alumnus,  RICHARD  L. 
TRACY,  '48  passed  away  while  jogging  on 
Wachusett  Street  in  Worcester  on  June  10, 
1970.  He  was  45.  He  had  suffered  a  heart 
ailment  a  few  years  ago  and  since  returning 
to  work  had  maintained  an  active  physical 
fitness  program.  He  was  wearing  his  track 
uniform  when  found  on  the  steps  of  his 
fraternity  house.  Phi  Kappa  Theta. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  March  10,  1925, 
he  attended  Uxbridge,  Mass.  High  School 
before  entering  WPI.  He  graduated  with 
distinction  in  June,  1948  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  civil  engineering.  As  an 
undergraduate  he  was  extremely  active  on 
campus.  He  was  editor  of  the  Tech  News 
and  a  member  of  the  Peddler  staff.  Masque, 
Tech  Council,  Newman  Club,  and  Phi  Kappa 
Theta.  And  he  received  many  honors.  He 
was  selected  for  membership  in  Skull,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  Pi  Delta  Epsilon,  and  Who's  Who 
and  in  later  years  in  Chi  Epsilon  and  Sigma 
Xi. 

He  had  been  with  Francis  S.  Harvey, 
'37,  since  his  graduation  and  in  1962  they 
formed  the  partnership  firm  of  Harvey  & 
Tracy,  consulting  structural  engineers.  He 
was  a  registered  engineer  in  Massachusetts 
and  Rhode  Island.  He  was  a  past  officer  of 
the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers,  and  a  member  of  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers,  and  the 
American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 

Dick  had  also  served  his  Alumni 
Association  actively.  He  had  served  the 
Worcester  County  Chapter  in  all  its  elective 
offices  through  the  years,  including 
president,  and  had  been  an  alumni 
admissions  counselor.  At  the  time  of  his 
death  he  was  vice  president  of  the  WPI 
Society  of  Families.  He  was  also  active  in 
the  Boy  Scouts,  his  church,  and  the 
American  Legion  and  was  a  veteran  of  Navy 
service  as  a  Second-Class  Petty  Officer  in  the 
South  Pacific  during  World  War  II. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Winnifred 
(Gallagher)  Tracy;  a  son,  Thomas  J.,  a  junior 
civil  engineering  student  at  WPI;  a  daughter, 
Patricia  Ann;  and  several  aunts  and  uncles. 


FREDERICK  A.  RAUPPIUS,  '53 

FREDERICK  A.  RAUPPIUS,  '53,  was 
killed  on  December  21,  1969  when  the 
single  engine  plane  he  was  flying  from 
Nashua,  N.H.  to  Newark,  N.J.  crashed  in 
Woodbury,  Conn.  He  was  38. 


Born  on  August  16,  1931  in  New  York 
City,  he  attended  Brooklyn  Technical  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  in  1949.  He 
graduated  in  1955  with  a  degree  in  chemical 
engineering.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Gamma  Delta  Fraternity. 

Upon  graduation,  Mr.  Rauppius  joined 
the  E.  I.  DuPont  de  Nemours  Co.,  Inc.  at 
Newburgh,  N.Y.  as  a  process  engineer  in 
research.  He  later  joined  Celanese  Corp.  of 
America  as  a  business  manager  and  later  new 
products  manager.  At  the  time  of  his  death 
he  was  a  resident  of  Newark,  N.J.  and  was 
vice  president  of  Coin  International,  Inc.,  a 
plastics  firm  in  New  York  and  division  of 
Coin  Sales  Corp.,  New  York. 

Survivors  include  his  wife  Mrs.  Anne 
(McMillan)  Rauppius,  three  sons  and  two 
daughters  by  a  previous  marriage. 


ROBERT  N.  ELDREDGE,  '54 

ROBERT  N.  ELDREDGE,  '54,  passed 
away  on  March  22,  1970  in  Miami,  Florida 
after  being  admitted  to  a  Miami  hospital  for 
surgery.  He  was  37. 

Born  on  June  15,  1932  in  Haverhill, 
Mass.,  Mr.  Eldredge  entered  WPI  in  1950 
and  graduated  in  1954  with  a  BS  degree  in 
chemical  engineering.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  Fraternity 
and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Mr.  Eldredge  joined  the  Esso  Standard 
Oil  Co.,  Bayonne,  N.J.  shortly  after  gradua- 
tion from  WPI  but  soon  became  affiliated 
with  Creole  Petroleum  Corp.  of  Venezuela 
and  had  spent  the  last  1 5  years  as  a  chemical 
engineer  for  that  corporation. 

Besides  his  widow,  Phyllis  Eldredge  and 
his  parents,  he  leaves  two  daughters,  Karen 
and  Christine,  and  a  son,  Douglas,  all  of 
Sebring,  Florida. 


BRUCE  CONNELL,  '64 

BRUCE  CONNELL,  '64,  died  on  April 
16,  1970  at  the  University  Hospital,  Boston. 
He  was  28. 

A  Natick,  Mass.  resident,  he  was  born  on 
February  28,  1942  and  entered  WPI  in 
September,  1960.  He  graduated  with  a  BS 
degree  in  electrical  engineering.  At  the  time 
of  his  death  Mr.  Connell  was  employed  as  a 
design  engineer  for  Raytheon  Corp., 
Bedford,  Mass.  He  had  served  as  a  first 
lieutenant  in  the  Army  Signal  Corps  in 
Vietnam  from  November  1965  to  December 
1967.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Meriden 
Lodge  of  Masons,  Parker  Royal  Arch 
Chapter,  Natick. 

Survivors  included  his  wife,  Sheryl 
(Cookson)  Connell,  his  mother  of  Natick 
and  two  brothers. 


THE  JOURNAL 


49 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1908 

The  Class  of  1908  is  proud  of  our 
honorary  member,  ESTHER  GODDARD, 
and  extend  congratulations  to  her  as  the 
recipient  of  an  Honorary  degree  of  Doctor 
of  Science  from  Anna  Maria  College, 
Paxton,  Mass. 

The  class  may  be  weakening,  but  we're 
not  done  yet  —  as  indicated  by  the  attend- 
ance of  HERB  CARLETON,  LEON  HITCH- 
COCK and  DON  SIMONDS  at  the  Annual 
Meeting  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Donald  D.  Simonds 
Secretary 

1915 

CHARLES  B.  HURD  writes:  "I'm  busy 
keeping  up  the  yard,  collecting  fossil  shells, 
and  fishing.  I  have  presented  a  collection  of 
fossil  shells  of  southwest  Florida  to  the 
South  Florida  Museum  in  Bradenton."  Mr. 
Hurd  lives  in  Anna  Maria,  Fla. 

1918 

BENJAMIN  LUTHER  has  written  to 
inform  us  that  his  wife,  Antoinette,  passed 
away  unexpectedly  on  March  9,  1970.  On 
April  17  of  this  year  they  would  have 
celebrated  their  50th  wedding  anniver- 
sary. .  .  RAYMOND  H.  SHAW  reports  that 
in  1969  he  was  elected  to  a  third  three-year 
term  on  the  Board  of  Assessors  for  the  city 
of  Rutland,  Vt.  He  retired  in  1959  after  43 
years'  service  with  New  England  Telephone 
&  Telegraph. 

1920 

LESTER  C.  WIGHTMAN  is  vice  presi- 
dent for  industrial  engineering  planning  at 
Hoerner  Waldorf  Corp.  in  Keokuk,  Iowa.  .  . 
BURTON  W.  MARSH,  Executive  Director 
of  the  Institute  of  Traffic  Engineers, 
Washington.  D.C.,  has  received  the  Arthur 
Williams  Gold  Medal  Memorial  Award  for 
1970.  The  award  was  presented  by  the 
World  Safety  Research  Institute,  Inc. 

1922 

FRED  PICKWICK,  JR.,  writes:  "I  have 
retired    from   the   Atomic   Energy   Commis- 


sion and  will  continue  to  reside  on  the 
western  slope  of  the  Rockies  (in  Grand 
Junction,  Colo.)" 

1924 

After  38  years'  service  with  the  State  of 
New  Hampshire  Dept.  of  Public  Works  and 
Highways,  ARTHUR  P:  MILLER  has  re- 
tired. At  the  time  of  his  retirement,  he  was 
assistant  highway  design  engineer. 


1926 

Members  of  the  class  who  have  retired 
recently  are:  ROBERT  H.  ALBERTI,  who 
retired  in  July,  1969,  as  quality  control 
manager  at  Greenfield  (Mass.)  Tap  &  Die 
Corp.;  ELMER  HANSEN,  who  retired  from 
the  Pennsylvania  Power  &  Light  Co.; 
CLYDE  W.  HUBBARD,  who  retired  on  Feb. 
27,  1970,  as  senior  hydraulic  engineer  at 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  in 
Boston;  and  EMERSON  A.  WIGGIN,  who 
retired  in  May  1970,  from  Betterley  Associ- 
ates in  Worcester.  .  .ARCHIE  J.  HORNE 
has  recently  formed  a  real  estate  appraising 
and  consulting  firm  in  Worcester.  It  is  Home 
&  Hastings  Associates  and  the  other  partner 
in  the  firm  is  Calvin  V.  Hastings,  Mr. 
Home's  son-in-law.  ..  STANLEY  R.  OS- 
BORNE is  vice  president  and  a  partner  in 
the  New  Haven  (Conn.)  firm  of  Hubbard, 
Lawless  &  Osborne  Associates. 

1927 

RICHARD  K.  IRONS  holds  the  Harri- 
man  Chair  of  History  at  the  Groton  School 
in  Groton,  Mass.,  and  he  reports  that  he  will 
retire  in  1972  after  39  years  at  Groton.  .  . 
CHARLES  MacLENNAN  is  employed  by 
Harza  Engineering  Co.  which  is  a  consulting 
engineering  firm  in  Chicago.  .  .  C.  STURE 
CARLSON,  who  retired  about  a  year  ago 
from  the  Norton  Co.  of  Worcester,  has  been 
appointed  town  engineer  for  the  town  of 
Northboro,  Mass. 

1928 

FRANCIS  H.  KING  is  manager  of  the 
Municipal  Gas  and  Electric  Dept.  for  the 
city  of  Holyoke,  Mass.  He  has  held  that 
position  for  the  past  25  years.  Last  St. 
Patrick's  Day,  he  was  parade  marshal  for  the 
annual  St.  Patrick's  Day  parade  in  Holyoke. 


1929 

FREDERICK  G.  BALDWIN  retired  on 
April  1,  1970,  after  41  years  with  the 
Central  Vermont  Public  Service  Corp.  For 
the  majority  of  those  41  years  he  was 
located  in  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  and  he  con- 
tinues to  be  active  in  that  cpmmunity  as 
vice  president  of  St.  Johnsbury  Community 
Television  (CATV).  ..  ROBERT  L.  COT- 
TON is  retired  and  is  living  in  Jamaica,  N.Y. 
He  had  previously  been  in  Lisbon,  Portugal, 
with  Radio  Free  Europe.  .  .  Another  recent 
retiree  is  Prof.  JOHN  M.  PETRI E,  who 
retired  from  WPI  in  June.  He  was  a  profes- 
sor of  chemical  engineering  and  is  now  a 
WPI  professor  emeritus.  ..  RICHARD  J. 
STONE  has  retired  from  CF&I  Steel  Corp., 
Wickwire  Spencer  Steel  Div.,  and  he  is  now 
residing  in  Jaffrey,  N.H.  .  .  UNO  A.  MAT- 
SON  recently  celebrated  his  40th  anniver- 
sary of  service  with  Bell  Laboratories.  He  is 
a  member  of  technical  staff  in  the  Micro- 
wave Equipment  Dept.  at  the  Merrimack 
Valley  Laboratory  in  N.  Andover,  Mass. 

1930 

WALTER  H.  FRENCH  writes:  "(I)  re- 
tired from  the  New  York  Telephone  Co.  in 
August,  1969.  Still  living  in  Syracuse. 
Enjoying  life  and  the  beauties  of  this 
wonderful  country  of  ours".  .  .  Another 
member  of  the  class  who  retired  recently  is 
ALBERT  M.  GOODNOW.  He  retired  after 
spending  nearly  30  years  with  the  Boston 
Edison  Co.  He  makes  his  home  in  Sudbury, 
Mass.  .  .  The  main  engineering  building  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  in  Amherst 
has  been  named  Marston  Hall  in  honor  of 
GEORGE  A.  MARSTON.  Prof.  Marston  was 
the  first  Dean  of  the  UMass  School  of 
Engineering,  being  named  to  that  position  in 
1947.  He  retired  as  Dean  in  1963  and  since 
then  has  been  a  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  Western  New  England  College 
in  Springfield,  Mass.  He  lives  in  Amherst.  .  . 
EDWARD  R.  DELANO  has  retired  as  high- 
way superintendent  of  the  California  Div.  of 
Highways,  Red  Bluff,  Calif.  An  article  about 
his  recent  trip  appears  elsewhere  in  this 
issue.  .  .  HILTON  FISHER  has  retired  from 
the  turbine  dept.  of  the  General  Electric 
Co.,  W.  Lynn,  Mass. 

1931 
JUICHI  KAKU,  MS,  is  senior  managing 
director  of  Origin  Electric  Co.,  Ltd.  in 
Tokyo,  Japan.  ..  RUSSELL  J.  LIBBEY 
writes:  "On  February  1,  1970,  I  retired 
from  U.S.  Steel  Corp.  I  was  staff  engineer  - 
appropriations  and  control  for  the  eastern 
area."  He  is  residing  in  Fairview  Park, 
Ohio.  ..  OLIVER  B.  MERRILL  continues 
as  president  of  Kingston-Warren  Companies 
in  Newfields.  N.H.  .  .  Another  New  Hamp- 
shire resident  is  OLIVER  R.  UNDERHILL, 
JR.  He  is  now  residing  in  Franconia. 


50 


THE  JOURNAL 


1932 

Dr.  WILLIAM  E.  HANSON,  Chairman 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  WPI,  is  now 
with  Gulf  Research  &  Development  Co.  in 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.  and  his  title  is  senior  scien- 
tist-executive. Dr.  Hanson  was  recently 
honored  by  being  named  honorary  cadet 
colonel  of  the  WPI  ROTC  brigade.  .  .  JOHN 
H.  PORTEUS  is  presently  employed  in 
Mexico  as  technical  director  for  Painco- 
Rust,  S.A.  .  .  LEON  D.  SKUROPAT  has 
written  to  inform  us  that:  "I  am  no  longer 
associated  with  the  General  Electric  Co., 
having  retired  at  the  end  of  last  year  after 
35  years  of  continuously  challenging  work 
in  Brazil.  A  long  series  of  successful  assign- 
ments, culminating  in  top  management  posi- 
tions, perhaps  has  not  been  as  personally 
satisfying  as  the  development  of  the  local 
engineering  talent  during  these  years."  He 
lives  in  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil  and  he  says  that 
any  Tech  men  would  be  most  welcome.  .  . 
CONSTANTINE  G.  ORFANOS  reports  that 
he  is  presently  project  manager,  electric 
utility  equipment  projects,  for  the  General 
Electric  Co.  in  their  export  div.  He  and  Mrs. 
Orfanos  spent  last  September  in  Greece 
visiting  members  of  his  family  and  former 
business  associates.  Connie  says  that  his 
oldest  daughter  will  be  among  the  first  class 
of  co-eds  to  graduate  from  Yale  University 
in  June,  1971 ...  United  Illuminating,  Inc. 
of  New  Haven,  Conn.,  employs  EUGENE  W. 
SOMERVILLE  as  vice  president  for  engi- 
neering and  planning.  He  was  recently 
elected  to  the  executive  board  of  the 
Quinnipiac  Council,  Boy  Scouts  of  America, 
in  Hamden,  Conn. 


1933 

GEORGE  W.  LYMAN  is  plant  manager 
for  Armstrong-Blum  Mfg.  Co.,  Spartan  Saw 
Works,  in  Springfield,  Mass.  He  lives  in  W. 
Suffield,  Conn.  .  .  Bell  Telephone  Labs  in 
Whippany,  N.J.  employs  WALTER  W. 
TUTHILL  as  a  member  of  their  technical 
staff.  .  .  FREDERICK  M.  POTTER  is  chief 
engineer  of  rotary  equipment  for  the  Bendix 
Electric  Power  Div.  of  the  Bendix  Co.  in 
Eatontown,  N.J. 


1934 

E.  HUGH  OSBORNE  is  an  electrical 
engineer  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Hanscom 
Field  in  Bedford,  Mass. 


1935 

RAYMOND  O.  GRANGER,  executive 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
Granger  Contracting  Co.,  Inc.  in  Worcester, 
was   recently    elected   a   director  of   Home 


Federal  Savings  and  Loan  Association  in 
Worcester.  .  .WENDELL  D.  JEWELL  re- 
ports that  he  and  his  wife  plan  to  spend  the 
next  year  or  two  traveling  around  the 
country  in  a  motor  home.  .  .  GEORGE  A. 
MAKELA  is  living  in  Alexandria,  Va.  .  . 
Resistoflex  Corp.  in  Roseland,  N.J.  employs 
GEORGE  A.  MITCHELL  as  quality  and 
assurance  manager.  He  was  formerly  with 
the  Bendix  Corp.  .  .  WESLEY  A.  PROC- 
TOR, president  of  Stafford  Iron  Works  in 
Worcester,  now  resides  in  Chatham, 
Mass.  .  .PHILIP  S.  DEAN  is  employed  by 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co.  of  Hartford, 
Conn,  as  a  senior  engineer.  He  resides  in 
Meriden,  Conn.  .  .  LEONARD  G.  HUM- 
PHREY, JR.  is  manager  of  the  federal  & 
marine  dept.  of  the  Buffalo  Forge  Co.  in 
Washington,  D.C.  "Hump"  resides  in  Chevy 
Chase,  Md.  .  .  A  California  resident  is 
LESTER  L.  LIBBY.  He  is  self-employed  as 
an  electronics  consultant  in  Los  Altos  Hills. 

1936 

ROGER  W.  BRUCE  has  been  appointed 
general  superintendent  of  the  Worcester 
Works  Div.  of  the  U.S.  Steel  Corp. 

1937 

C.  CHAPIN  CUTLER,  director  of  the 
Electronic  Systems  Research  Laboratory  at 
Bell  Laboratories  in  Holmdel,  N.J.,  has  been 
elected  a  member  of  the  National  Academy 
of  Engineering.  .  .  FRANCIS  H.  MAR- 
CHAND  is  managing  director  of  Gleeson 
Mortuary  in  Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  JOHN  F. 
McGINNIS  is  vice  president  —  production  of 
the  Camden,  N.J.  and  Sioux  City,  Iowa 
Plants  of  the  Kind  and  Knox  Gelatin  Co.  He 
resides  in  Haddon  Hgts.,  N.J. 

1938 

FREDERICK  B.  BANAN  is  employed 
by  Citicorp  Systems,  Inc.  of  Cambridge, 
Mass.  as  a  senior  programming  specialist.  .  . 
RAVINDRA    L.    KIRLOSKAR    is  chief  ex- 


ecutive officer  for  Kirloskar  Electric  Co., 
Ltd.  in  Bangalore,  India.  ..  THOMAS  E. 
O'NEIL  is  employed  by  Chemical  Construc- 
tion Corp.  of  New  York  City  and  he  is 
presently  located  in  India. 


1939 

WALTER  L.  ABEL  is  vice  president  for 
corporate  systems  and  director  of  research 
for  the  United  Shoe  Machinery  Corporation 
of  Beverly,  Mass.  On  Reunion  Weekend, 
1970,  he  received  a  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award  for  outstanding  professional  achieve- 
ment. .  .  Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co. 
employs  HENRY  S.  BLAUVELT  in  their 
Electric  Distribution  Dept.  as  manager  of 
methods.  .  .  HARRISON  K.  BROWN  is  a 
member  of  the  management  task  team  at 
NASA's  space  station  in  Huntsville, 
Ala.  .  .  OIVA  J.  KARNA  is  now  located  in 
Houston,  Texas  where  he  is  a  project  man- 
ager in  the  process  plants  division  of  Foster 
Wheeler  Corp.  .  .  ARTHUR  H.  MALLON  is 
a  civil  engineer  in  the  division  of  applied 
sciences  and  technology  of  the  Federal 
Water  Pollution  Control  Administration.  .  . 
ROBERT  J.  HAMILTON  is  with  Mobil  Oil 
Corp.  in  New  York  City  and  is  manager  — 
fleet  sales. 


1940 

GEORGE  S.  BINGHAM  reports:  "I  was 
appointed  assistant  administrator,  engineer- 
ing and  construction  (chief  engineer)  of  the 
Bonneville  Power  Administration  (in  Port- 
land, Oregon)  on  September  1,  1969. 
Residing  in  Lake  Oswego,  Ore.  Have  re- 
sumed skiing,  plus  hiking,  swimming,  etc. 
The  Northwest  is  wonderful!".  .  .  MAL- 
COLM S.  BURTON  has  been  named  asso- 
ciate dean  of  the  Cornell  University  College 
of  Engineering  on  an  interim  basis.  Mai  is 
also  assistant  director  of  Cornell's  Depart- 
ment   of    Materials   Science   and    Engineer- 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


THE  JOURNAL 


51 


The  five  alumni  pictured  above  are  all  employed  by  the  Earth  Station  Implementation  Div.  at 
COMSAT  in  Washington,  D.C.  Left  to  right:  Robert  J.  Matthews,  '48,  L.  Howard  Reagan,  '44, 
William  D.  Young,  '50,  Richard  J.  McBride,  '56,  and  Brian  J.  Williams,  '59. 


ing.  .  .  ROBERT  W.  HEWEY  has  been 
appointed  vice  president,  manufacturing  by 
Sprague  Meter  Co.,  Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  . 
RUSSELL  A.  LOVELL,  JR.  has  retired  and 
is  now  living  on  Cape  Cod  in  Sandwich, 
Mass. 

1942 
Singer-Link  in  Silver  Spring,  Md.  em- 
ploys WILBUR  H.  DAY  as  their  manager  of 
systems  engineering.  .  .  Sun  Oil  Co.  in 
Philadelphia  has  named  Dr.  RAYMOND 
WYNKOOP  director,  corporate  research 
department  in  their  newly-created  Corpo- 
rate Projects  Group.  .  .  Fontaine  Brothers, 
contractors,  of  Springfield,  Mass.  employ 
DONALD  R.  PACKARD  as  their  director  of 
development. 

1943 

RICHARD  F.  DYER  is  with  Tennessee 
Eastman  Co.  in  Kingsport,  Tenn.  .  .  Dr. 
CHARLES  A.  JENKINS,  JR.  is  the  base 
dental  surgeon  at  the  U.S.  Air  Force's 
Hurlburt  Field,  Fla.  base.  .  .  ROBERT  P. 
SEATON  is  employed  by  the  Allen-Bradley 
Co.  in  Upper  Darby,  Pa.  .  .  HOWARD  A. 
AUBERTIN  is  located  in  the  Worcester  area. 
He  is  employed  by  J.  G.  Lamotte  &  Son, 
Inc.  of  Worcester  and  he  lives  in  Paxton. 

1944 
NORMAN  S.  BLODGETT  is  a  patent 
attorney  in  Worcester.  ..  ANDREW  KUR- 
KO  owns  and  operates  Kurko  Plastics  Co.  in 
Huron,  Ohio.  .  .  JOHN  W.  LEBOURVEAU 
has  been  named  manager  of  environmental 
research  by  the  New  England  Electric  Sys- 
tem, Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  ARTHUR  L. 
STOWE  is  associated  with  Colonial  Invest- 
ment Securities  in  Worcester. 


1945 

EDWIN  G.  BALDWIN  is  director  of 
military  projects  for  Western  Electric  Co., 
Inc.  in  Winston-Salem,  N.C.  .  .  Massachu- 
setts Governor  Sargent  has  appointed 
WILLIAM  P.  DENSMORE  to  the  State 
Board  of  Education.  Bill  is  a  vice  president 
of  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester  and  is  general 
manager  of  the  refractories  and  protective 
products  division.  .  .  ANSON  C.  FYLER, 
who  received  a  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 
for  outstanding  professional  achievement  at 
the  Reunion  1970  luncheon,  is  president  of 
Arrow-Hart,  Inc.  in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  Bell 
Telephone  Labs  in  Holmdel,  N.J.  has  an- 
nounced that  Dr.  ERNEST  R.  KRETZMER 
has  been  promoted  to  director  of  the  Data 
Communications  Lab.  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
SCOTT,  who  is  an  employee  of  MFB  Mutual 
Insurance  Co.  in  Providence,  R.I.,  is  current- 
ly "on  loan"  as  managing  director  to  FM 
Insurance  Co.,  Ltd.  in  London,  England. 

1946 

BERNARD  L.  BEISECKER,  JR.  has 
been  named  vice  president  —  manufacturing 
at  Reed  &  Prince  Mfg.  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Heublein,  Inc.  has  announced  that  WIL- 
LIAM G.  DALY  has  been  appointed  dis- 
tribution manager  for  their  spirits  and  wine 
div.  .  .  As  reported  in  the  Campus  Notes 
section  of  the  last  issue  of  the  Journal,  Prof. 
WILLIAM  R.  GROGAN  has  been  named 
Dean  for  Undergraduate  Programs  at  WPI, 
effective  in  July,  1970.  ..  DOUGLAS  S. 
MILLER  is  a  senior  engineer  with  Uniroyal, 
Inc. 

1946B 

THEODORE  A.  BALASKA  is  presently 
director   of   engineering   and   new   product 


development  for  the  Bishop  Mfg.  Corp.  in 
Cedar  Grove,  N.J.  .  .  HAZEN  L.  HOYT,  III 
reports  that  he  is  now  in  his  12th  year  with 
Xerox  Corp.  and  that  he  is  manager  of  the 
Xeromammography  Engineering  group  in 
the  Medical  Diagnostics  Operations  which  is 
based  in  Pasadena,  Calif.  .  .  CHARLES  A. 
MITCHELL,  JR.  has  been  named  Northeast 
regional  manager  of  Westamerica  Securities, 
Inc.,  a  Denver-based  securities  firm.  .  . 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  employs 
DANIEL  J.  RICE  in  Baltimore,  Md.  as 
senior  division  marketing  manager. 

1946C 

PHILIP  G.  DUFFY  reports  that  after  a 
year  of  fun  in  Vermont  (he  was  with 
Fairbanks  Morse  in  St.  Johnsbury),  he 
is  now  with  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro, 
Mass.  and  he  is  living  in  Sharon,  Mass. 

1946D 

ROBERT  W.  SCHRAMM  is  manager  of 
engineering  services  at  E.  R.  Squibb  &  Sons, 
Inc.  in  New  Brunswick,  N.J. 

1947 

General  Electric  Co.  employs  GUY  H. 
NICHOLS  in  their  Aircraft  Engine  Group  in 
Evendale,  Ohio  as  a  reliability  engineer.  .  . 
JACQUES  L.  METENIER  is  general  man- 
ager of  the  Societe  Des  Condenseurs  Delas 
in  Paris,  France. 

1948 

RICHARD  A.  SEAGRAVE  is  works 
manager  for  FMC  Corp.,  Link  Belt  Div.,  in 
Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  .  The  director  of  market- 
ing at  Avco  Bay  State  Abrasives  in  West- 
boro, Mass.  is  ROBERT  A.  GREEN.  He  is 
responsible  not  only  for  all  marketing  and 
sales  operations  but  also  the  supporting 
product  engineering  activities.  He  was 
formerly  director  of  sales  for  the  com- 
pany. ..  CHARLES  A.  WOODMAN  has 
received  a  PhD  degree  in  education  from 
Boston  University.  Dr.  Woodman  has  been  a 
physics  and  general  science  teacher  in  the 
Wakefield,  Mass.  school  system  since  1960. 


1949 

The  University  of  Hartford  (Conn.)  has 
promoted  Prof.  RICHARD  W.  BROWN  to 
the  rank  of  full  professor.  Prof.  Brown  is 
chairman  of  the  electrical  engineering  de- 
partment at  the  university.  .  .  WALTER  J. 
MUSSONI  is  a  regional  sales  manager,  fire 
protection  products,  for  Bliss-Portland, 
located  in  S.  Portland,  Me.  Walter  recently 
represented  WPI  at  the  inauguration  of  the 
new  president  of  Nasson  College  in  Spring- 
vale,  Me.  .  .  ROBERT  A.  ROWSE  is  em- 
ployed   by    Norton    Co.    in    Worcester    as 


52 


THE  JOURNAL 


director  of  research  and  development  in  the 
Abrasives  Div.  .  .  JAMES  D.  WILSON  is  an 
abrasives  engineer  with  the  United  Tool  & 
Industrial  Supplies  Co.,  Inc.  in  Lawrence, 
Mass.  ..  ROBERT  R.  SMITH  is  a  sales 
engineer  for  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp. 
and  is  located  in  Eugene,  Ore.  .  .  DONALD 
H.  STORY  has  been  promoted  to  general 
manager  of  the  Cambridge,  Mass.  Gas  Co. 
division  of  the  New  England  Gas  &  Electric 
System.  He  lives  in  Framingham,  Mass. 

1950 

The  director  of  the  Bureau  of  Solid 
Wastes  Disposal  of  the  Massachusetts  De- 
partment of  Public  Works  is  JOHN  F. 
GALLAGHER.  John  lives  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Lt.  Col.  FRANK  W.  HARDING  III  is  in  the 
Air  Force  with  the  Space  &  Missile  Systems 
Organization  and  is  presently  living  in 
Garden  Grove,  Calif.  .  .  ROBERT  L. 
MOISON  is  a  consulting  chemical  engineer 
with  David  R.  Conkey  &  Associates  in 
Minneapolis,  Minn.  .  .  General  Electric  Co. 
employs  Dr.  HERMAN  A.  NI.ED  at  their 
Knolls  Atomic  Power  Lab  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  He  is  an  analytical  mechanics  engi- 
neer. .  .  Litton  Industries,  Inc.  has  an- 
nounced that   ROBERT  F.  STEWART  has 


been  promoted  to  be  a  Litton  Corporate 
vice  president  and  group  executive  heading 
the  Machine  Tool  Systems  Group.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  worldwide  operations  of 
the  group. 

1951 

Cmdr.  RALPH  W.  AUERBACH,  JR.  is 
stationed  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Public  Works 
Center  in  Pensacola,  Fla.  .  .  A.  WILLIAM 
SPENCER  is  employed  by  Eastman  Kodak 
Co.  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  and  he  recently 
received  a  NASA  award  for  his  participation 
in  the  Apollo  II  space  program.  ..  The 
University  of  Kentucky  in  Lexington  has 
Dr.  DONALD  E.  SANDS  as  a  professor  of 
chemistry.  He  spent  the  first  half  of  1970 
on  sabbatical  at  the  University  of  Florida. 

1952 

Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor  Locks, 
Conn,  has  promoted  ROBERT  E.  SULLI- 
VAN from  chief  product  engineer  to  chief 
of  quality  control  in  the  electronics  dept. 

1953 

Dr.  ROBERT  W.  FITZGERALD  has 
been  promoted  to  associate  professor  of 
civil      engineering      at      WPI.  ..JOHN      S. 


LOVELL  is  employed  by  Hamilton  Stand- 
ard in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn,  in  their  space 
systems  dept.  and  is  chief  of  advanced 
engineering.  .  .  DONALD  S.  OLIVER  is 
manager  of  the  Physics  Laboratory  at  Itek 
Corporation's  Lexington  (Mass.)  Research 
Laboratories.  He  was  recently  awarded  a 
patent  for  his  invention  of  a  method  to 
measure  the  vibrations  of  a  vibrating  ob- 
ject. .  .  The  Fort  Madison,  Iowa  plant  of  E. 
I.  duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Inc.,  has  JOHN 
E.  LEACH  as  assistant  plant  manager. 

1954 

WILLIAM  SCHOENEMANN  is  manu- 
facturing manager  for  Microform  Data 
Systems  and  he  resides  in  Sunnyvale, 
Calif.  ..  EDWIN  J.  SHIVELL  III  has  been 
nominated  for  a  three  year  term  as  an 
alumni  trustee  of  Monson  Academy, 
Monson,  Mass. 

1955 

JOHN  W.  CNOSSEN  has  accepted  a 
position  in  the  Uxbridge,  Mass.  school  sys- 
tem as  a  high  school  teacher  of  chemistry 
and  physics.  Since  1963  he  has  been  propri- 
etor of  his  family's  restaurant  in  Uxbridge. 


ENGINEERING   INGENUITY 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Design  a  machine  that  grinds  the  "nonrotatables"  .  .  . 
seem  impossible?  Not  when  Heald  engineering  ingenuity 
is  used.  The  new  Planetary  Model  5650  precision  grinds 
parts  that  are  too  big,  too  heavy,  and  too  awkward  to 
rotate. 

Instead  of  rotating  the  workpiece,  it  rotates  the  wheel- 
head  in  orbit  around  the  centerline  of  the  surface  to  be 
ground.  And  the  wheel  feeds  into  the  work  simply  by 
changing  the  orbital  radius. 

The  Model  5650  grinds  I.D.'s,  O.D.'s  and  faces  on  work- 
pieces  of  practically  any  size,  shape  or  weight.  This  versa- 
tile machine  can  be  equipped  to  grind  bores  from  VU"  to 
14Vi"  in  diameter,  with  maximum  hole  lengths  up  to  34" 
depending  on  bore  diameter.  When  it  comes  to  engineer- 
ing ingenuity  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald,  where  metalwork- 
ing  needs  meet  new  ideas. 

THE     HEALD     MACHINE     COMPANY 

ASSOCIATE  OF  THE  CINCINNATI  MILLING  MACHINE  COMPANY 
Worcester,    Massachusetts   01606     U.S.A. 


THE  JOURNAL 


53 


1956 

JOHN  M.  NASH  is  production  super- 
intendent for  the  Koppers  Co.,  Inc.  in 
Chicago,  III.  .  .  JOSEPH  F.  PAPARELLA  is 
employed  by  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro, 
Mass.  and  he  is  manager  of  the  corporate 
legal  dept.  .  .  ARNOLD  M.  HALL  is  vice 
president  —  engineering  and  research  for 
Transportation  Technology,  Inc.  in  Dallas, 
Texas.  He  resides  in  Irving,  Texas. 


1957 

ROBIN  AW  is  an  engineering  trainee  at 
Presmet  Corp.  in  Worcester.  .  .  JAMES  A. 
CHENEY  has  left  the  Union  Carbide  Corp. 
and  has  joined  his  brother  in  Cheney  Design 
Engineering  Co.,  Inc.  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. 
The  company  specializes  in  materials  han- 
dling and  packaging  engineering.  .  .  Western 
Electric  Co.  employs  FRED  H.  CLARK, 
JR.,  as  a  senior  engineer.  Fred  resides  in 
Atkinson,  N.H.  .  .  Dr.  ROBERT  K.  CRANE 
is  an  engineer  at  MIT's  Lincoln  Labs  in 
Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  System  Development 
Corp.  in  Paramus,  N.J.  has  KENNETH  E. 
HERMANCE  as  a  computer  system  special- 
ist. .  .  The  computer  control  division  of 
Honeywell,  Inc.  employs  JOHN  M.  HOBAN 
in  Forest  Hills,  N.Y.  as  an  account  repre- 
sentative. ..  CARL  L.  URETSKY  is  chief 
applications  engineer  for  Transitron  Elec- 
tronic Sales  Corp.  in  Wakefield,  Mass.  .  . 
Esso  Research  &  Engineering  Co.  in  Linden, 
N.J.  has  named  RALPH  P.  SCHLENKER  to 
a  position  as  section  head  in  the  technology 
dept. 

1958 

Polaroid  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  em- 
ploys WILLIAM  S.  BROWER,  JR.,  as  a 
senior  manufacturing  engineer.  .  .  MAGNUS 
J.  EINARSON  is  president  of  Circuit  Lab  in 
Woburn,  Mass.  .  .  An  employee  of  General 
Electric  Co.  is  WILLIAM  F.  GESS.  He  is 
located  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  and  is  a  senior 
engineer  in  advance  sonar  development 
engineering  -  heavy  military  electronic 
systems.  .  .  ROGER  A.  LITMAN  is  opera- 
tions manager  for  the  Transitron  Electronic 
Corp.  in  E.  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  RICHARD  A. 
PRATT  is  a  chemist  in  the  Roytype  Div.  of 
Litton  Industries  in  W.  Hartford,  Conn. 
Battelle  Memorial  Institute  in  Columbus, 
Ohio  employs  HOWARD  B.  PRITZ  as  a 
research  engineer.  .  .  Employed  by  James- 
bury  Corp.  of  Worcester  since  his  graduation 
from  WPI,  JOAQUIM  S.  S.  RIBEIRO  is  now 
corporate  controller.  .  .  DONALD  D. 
ABRAHAM  is  an  electronic  engineer  at  the 
U.S.  Navy  Underwater  Sound  Lab  in  New 
London,  Conn.  .  .  The  U.S.  Navy's  Under- 
water Sound  Lab  in  New  London,  Conn. 
employs  WILLIAM  E.  MULLARKEY.  .  . 
ELMER   W.  SCHRADER.  JR.  has  recently 


54 


joined  the  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Laboratory 
of  the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  as  a  reactor  systems  engineer.  .  .  JOHN 
B.  VESEY  reports  that  he  is  a  sheet  metal 
worker  for  Stanford  Electronic  Metals  Inc. 
in  Farmingdale,  N.J. 

1959 

DAVID  R.  BRAGG  is  a  project  manager 
for  Cahn  Engineers,  Inc.  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.  .  .  Father  HARVEY  D.  EGAN  is 
presently  a  PhD  candidate  at  the  University 
of  Munster  in  Germany.  .  .  F.  BERNARD 
LALLY,  JR.  is  a  physics  teacher  in  the 
public  school  system  in  Chicopee,  Mass.  .  . 
SKF  Industries,  Inc.,  in  Asheville,  N.C. 
employs  WILLIAM  U.  PURSELL,  JR.  as  an 
engineering  manager.  .  .  BURTON  L. 
SIEGAL,  SIM,  is  a  product  engineer  for 
Coated  Products  in  Lowell,  Mass.  .  . 
WINTHROP  M.  WASSENAR  is  assistant 
director  of  the  physical  plant  at  Williams 
College,  Williamstown,  Mass.  He  was  re- 
cently elected  to  the  elementary  school 
committee  in  that  town.  .  .  Army  Major 
JOEL  T.  CALLAHAN  has  received  the 
Bronze  Star  for  outstanding  service  during 
military  operations  in  Vietnam.  He  is 
currently  a  deputy  district  engineer  for  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  and  is  sta- 
tioned in  Wilmington,  N.C.  .  .  Dr.  JAMES  S. 
TYLER,  JR.,  who  holds  a  PhD  degree  from 
Yale  University,  is  a  senior  research  engineer 
with  Systems  Control,  Inc.  of  Palo  Alto, 
Calif. 

1960 

Navy  Lt.  Cmdr.  KEVIN  J.  BURKE  is 
stationed  aboard  the  USS  Hammerberg.  .  . 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.  employs  JERRY  B. 
GIBBS  as  an  engineer  in  their  Homer  Re- 
search Labs  in  Bethlehem,  Pa.  .  .  NORMAN 
B.  MACK  is  president  of  Sack  Storage  Corp. 
in  Worcester.  He  resides  in  Lynbrook, 
N.Y.  ..We  have  learned  that  JOHN  T. 
MANCHESTER  is  a  senior  engineering  ad- 
ministrator in  the  Digital  Systems  Div.  of 
the  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass.  .  .  PAUL 
B.  STEWART  reports:  "I  have  recently  been 
promoted  to  engineer-in-charge  of  the 
Buffalo  (N.Y.)  office  of  the  Factory  Insur- 
ance Association.  My  wife  Linda  and  I  now 
have  four  children,  aged  9,  7,  5,  and 
1.".  ..Air  Force  Capt.  WALTER  L. 
WAJDA  is  presently  stationed  at  Vanden- 
berg  AFB,  Calif.  .  .  ROBERT  F.  KASPROW 
is  an  assistant  project  design  engineer  for 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford, 
Conn. 

1961 

Married:  JOHN  A.  QUAGLIAROLI  to 
Miss  Judith  S.  Fowler  on  November  15, 
1969  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  John  is  a  marketing 
representative  for  IBM  Corp.  in  Syracuse.  .  . 


HENRY  P.  ALLESSIO  to  Miss  Judith  P. 
Sweet  on  May  29,  1970  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 
Hank  is  an  associate  with  William  E.  Hill  Co. 
in  New  York  City.  The  couple  is  residing  in 
Pelham  Manor,  N.Y. 

Worcester  County  National  Bank  reports 
that  NICHOLAS  A.  CAPUTO  has  been 
appointed  as  their  chief  engineer.  .  . 
RICHARD  D.  COHEN  is  a  stock  broker 
with  Legg  &  Co.  in  Baltimore.  .  .  We  have 
learned  that  International  Boiler  Works  of 
E.  Stroudsburg,  Pa.  employs  EDWARD  R. 
DESPLAINES  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  .  . 
ALFRED  L.  DUNKLEE  is  an  electronic 
engineer  with  Ball  Brothers  Research  Corp. 
in  Boulder,  Colo.  .  .  RCA  Corp.  in  Marlboro, 
Mass.  has  RICHARD  H.  FEDERICO  as  a 
senior  member  of  their  technical  staff.  .  . 
Seattle,  Wash,  is  the  location  of  Lt.  Cmdr. 
C.  WILLIAM  HAYES.  He  is  with  the  U.S. 
Coast  &  Geodetic  Survey  in  the  Environ- 
mental Science  Services  Administration.  .  . 
ROBERT  F.  SCHUESSLER  is  plant  man- 
ager for  Topflight  Corp.  in  York,  Pa.  .  . 
DAVID  G.  REGAMEY  is  self-employed  as 
an  art  dealer  and  restorer.  He  is  located  in 
Stow,  Mass.  .  .  Clipper  Marine  Corp.,  New 
York  City,  employs  LAWRENCE  A. 
STAATS  as  a  second  assistant  engineer.  .  . 
Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  Co.  has  informed  us 
that  FREDERIC  A.  STEVENS  has  been 
named  manager,  CDP-Consulting,  in  the 
corporate  data  processing  department.  .  . 
CALVIN  E.  BACKSTROM  is  employed  by 
the  Penn  Yan  (N.Y.)  Municipal  Board  as 
Utilities  Manager.  .  .  Rutland,  Vt.  is  the 
location  of  RICHARD  Y.  YEE.  He  is  a 
project  engineer  for  the  Howe  Richardson 
Scale  Co.  .  .  Dr.  H.  RICHARD  FREEMAN 
received  his  PhD  degree  from  the  University 
of  Maryland  in  June  1970.  He  is  employed 
as  an  aerospace  technologist  at  the  Goddard 
Space  Flight  Center  in  Greenbelt,  Md.  He 
lives  in  Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  .  JOHN  V. 
RIDICK  has  been  promoted  to  the  rank  of 
Major  in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  is  assigned  to 
the  SATCOM  Agency  at  Fort  Monmouth, 
N.J.  as  an  electronics  engineer  in  the  test 
and  evaluation  directorate. 

1962 

Married:  CARMINE  A.  CAROSELLA  to 
Miss  Judy  Perrone  of  Key  West,  Fla.  in  May, 

1969.  Carmine  is  a  physicist  at  the  U.S. 
Naval  Research  Lab  in  Washington,  D.C.  He 
resides  in  Arlington,  Va. 

Born:  To  Mr.  &  Mrs.  NICHOLAS  COT- 
SI  DAS,  a  son,  Peter  Nicholas,  on  March  11, 

1970.  Nicholas  is  a  member  of  the  con- 
troller's staff  of  Squibb  Beech-Nut,  Inc.  in 
New  York  City. 

THOMAS  H.  MORRILL  is  attending 
Brandeis  Univ.  in  Waltham,  Mass.  and  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  physics  at  Emmanuel 
College    in    Boston.  .  .  HAROLD    C.    REY- 


THE  JOURNA 


NOLDS  is  located  in  Connecticut  and  is  an 
assistant  project  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford.  .  .  General  Atronics 
Corp.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  employs  PETER  A. 
PARRINO  as  a  senior  engineer.  .  .  THOMAS 
E.  QUINN   is  an  associate  sanitary  engineer 

i|  with  the  N.Y.  State  Health  Dept.  in  Albany 
and  is  involved  with  industrial  water  pollu- 
tion control.  .  .  Dr.  ERIC  J.  SELLEVOLD, 

•  who  received  his  PhD  degree  from  Stanford 
Univ.  last  year,  is  now  located  at  Denmark 
Technical  University  in  Copenhagen.  .  . 
MYRON  R.  WALDMAN  is  president  of 
Walco  Mfg.  Corp.  in  Providence,  R.I.  .  . 
ROBERT  H.  YORK  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley.  .  . 
ANDREW  D.  TERWILLEGER  is  a  traffic 
operations  engineer  for  the  City  of  Hart- 
ford, Conn. 

1963 

Born:    To    Mr.    &    Mrs.    GEORGE    B. 

HUNT,    a    son,    Errol    Kevin,   on   March   4, 

1970.   George   is  an  assistant  civil  engineer 

I    for  the    New   York  State   Dept.  of  Public 

Works  and  is  located  in  Poughkeepsie. 

THOMAS  E.  CHECHILE  is  a  structural 
civil  design  engineer  with  Northeast  Engi- 
neers, Div.  of  Cives  Corp.  in  W.  Springfield, 
Mass.  .  .  FREDERIC  J.  JACOBY  is  a  senior 
electronic  engineer  with  ARINC  Research 
Corp.  in  Annapolis,  Md.  .  .  GEORGE  P. 
("Spider")  VITTAS  is  manager,  airport 
planning  for  American  Airlines,  Inc.  and  is 
located  in  New  York  City.  His  work  en- 
compasses the  entire  system  of  metro- 
politan, regional,  and  resort  area  airports 
served  by  American.  ..  HENRY  A.  DOW- 
GIELEWICZ,  JR.  is  chief  cost  engineer  for 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  at  the 
North  Anna  Power  Station,  Mineral,  Va.  .  . 
GERALD  D.  WAXMAN  is  a  graduate 
student  at  the  University  of  California,  Los 
Angeles  (UCLA).  .  .  Industrial  Nucleonics 
Corp.  of  Columbus,  Ohio  has  announced  the 
promotion  of  WILLIAM  C.  ZINNO  to  pro- 
duction superintendent.  In  his  new  position. 
Bill  is  fully  responsible  for  the  company's 
electronic,  mechanical  and  system  assem- 
blies, and  for  test  operations. 


1964 

Married:  RONALD  E.  LUBOWICZ  to 
Miss  Susan  Kae  Pore  in  New  York  City  on 
January  24,  1970.  Ron  is  a  technical 
services  manager  for  Koch  Engineering 
Corp.  in  New  York  City. 

ANTHONY  CROCE  received  an  MS 
degree  in  Systems  Management  from  Florida 
Institute  of  Technology  in  September, 
1969.  Tony  is  presently  employed  as  a 
project  engineer  in  the  Aircraft  Weapons 
Systems  Labs  at  the  Rock  Island,  III. 
Arsenal.  He  resides  in  Davenport,  Iowa.  .  . 


STEPHEN  A.  HARVEY  is  with  Bell  Tele- 
phone Labs  in  N.  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  BRUCE 
W.  LARSEN  is  with  New  England  Tel.  & 
Tel.  in  Manchester,  N.H.  He  resides  in 
Peterborough,  N.H...  WALTER  W.  MAS- 
SI  E  is  a  civil  engineering  instructor  at 
Oregon  State  University  in  Corvallis.  .  .  New 
England  Tel.  &  Tel.  employs  DAVID  J. 
USHER  in  Portland,  Maine  as  a  construction 
manager.  ..  Air  Force  1/Lt.  PAUL  B. 
WATSON  is  stationed  at  Dover  AFB, 
dela.  .  .  ROBERT  H.  MORSE  is  a  vice  presi- 
dent —  sales  engineering  at  Morse  Brothers 
Electric  Co.,  Inc.  in  Worcester.  .  .  ROBERT 
W.  RUDD  is  an  engineer  in  the  copier  div.  of 
Pitney-Bowes,  Inc.  in  Norwalk,  Conn.  .  . 
RALPH  F.  BEDFORD  has  retired  from  the 
U.S.  Army  because  of  wounds  received 
while  on  military  duty  in  Vietnam.  He  was  a 
Captain  at  the  time  of  his  retirement.  He  is 
planning  to  return  to  college  to  get  a 
master's  degree  and  a  teaching  certifi- 
cate. ..  THOMAS  B.  NEWMAN,  JR.,  who 
received  an  MS  degree  from  Northeastern 
University  in  1969,  is  a  reliability  manager 
in  the  SAM-D  program  at  the  Raytheon  Co. 
in  Bedford,  Mass. 

1965 

Married:  KENNETH  J.  HULTGREN  to 
Miss  Carol  Ann  Hill  of  Gardner,  Mass.  on 
February  21,  1970.  Ken  is  employed  by  the 
General  Electric  Co.  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Navy  Lt.  j.g.  LEO  R.  BERENDES  is  an 
electronics  material  officer  aboard  the  USS 
Newman  K.  Perry.  .  .  RICHARD  N. 
BROWN  is  a  research  engineer  at  the  Naval 
Underwater  Weapons  Research  &  Engi- 
neering Station,  Newport,  R.I.  .  .  RICHARD 
J.  CAVALLARO  reports  that  he  has  been 
managing  a  wholesale  florist  business  in 
Boston  since  1968.  .  .  Fort  Sam  Houston, 
Texas  is  the  location  of  LEE  A.  CHOUI- 
NARD.  .  .  Other  members  of  the  class  who 
"are  on  military  duty  are:  Army  Capt. 
DAVID  A.  COOMBE,  stationed  at  Redstone 
Arsenal,  Ala.;  Air  Force  Capt.  MORDECAI 
GUTMAN,  who  is  an  instructor  navigator  on 
B-52's  operating  out  of  Guam  on  missions 
to  Southeast  Asia;  and  Air  Force  Capt. 
ROBERT  H.  JACOBY.  .  .  Metcalf  &  Eddy  in 
Boston  employs  KENNETH  E.  JOHNSON 
as  a  sanitary  water  supply  engineer.  .  . 
BENNETT  E.  GORDON,  JR.  is  an  instruc- 
tor in  the  mechanical  engineering  depart- 
ment at  WPI.  .  .  Camp,  Dresser  &  McKee  in 
Boston  employs  JOHN  J.  JOSTI. 

JAMES  S.  MAIN  is  a- graduate  student 
and  instructor  at  the  University  of  Mary- 
land, College  Park,  Md.  .  .  Standard  Oil  of 
N.J.  has  LAWRENCE  D.  PHILLIPS  as  a 
district  engineer.  Larry  lives  in  Akron, 
Ohio.  ..  HOWARD  SHERRY  is  a  PhD 
candidate  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
in  Philadelphia.  .  .  ROBERT  H.  CAHILL  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  Wharton  School  at 


the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  Philadel- 
phia. ..  MICHAEL  S.  DEMBSKI  is  an  in- 
dustrial engineer  with  the  Continental  Can 
Co.  and  he  is  located  in  Clarksburg,  W. 
Va.  ..WILLIAM  D.  GALEBACH  reports 
that  he  is  employed  by  Motorola  Com- 
munications &  Electronics,  Inc.  and  that  he 
is  on  a  training  assignment  in  Chicago,  prior 
to  becoming  an  area  systems  engineer  for 
the  company  in  the  Atlanta,  Ga.  area.  .  . 
Sperry  Systems  Management  Div.  of  the 
Sperry  Rand  Corp.  employs  CARL  S.  HAN- 
SON as  a  field  engineer  in  Great  Neck, 
N.Y.  .  .  RICHARD  S.  OLSON  is  assistant 
director  —  urban  development  for  Boise 
Cascade  Corp.  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  E.  H. 
Research  Laboratories,  Inc.,  in  Mountain 
View,  Calif,  employs  WAYNE  D.  POB- 
ZEZNIK  as  a  sales  engineer.  .  .  Ramchargers 
Racing  Engines,  Inc.,  in  Taylor,  Mich,  is 
owned  and  managed  by  RICHARD  G. 
SKOGLUND.  .  .  RICHARD  C.  MOORE  is  a 
physics  and  chemistry  teacher  at  Timberlane 
Regional  High  School  in  Atkinson,  N.H. 

1966 

Married:  GEORGE  M.  ELKO  to  Miss 
Marie  Scarpato  of  North  Bergen,  N.J.  on 
April  11,  1970.  George  is  working  toward  a 
PhD  degree  at  Stevens  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy, Hoboken,  N.J.  .  .  ROY  B.  WARFIELD 
to  Miss  Donna  Elizabeth  Wolfe  of  Westfield, 
Mass.  on  February  28,  1970.  Roy  is  an 
engineer  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  E. 
Hartford,  Conn. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DONALD  H. 
FOLEY,  a  daughter,  Heather  Lynn,  born  on 
February  26,  1970.  Don  is  working  on  a 
PhD  degree  and  is  a  research  engineer  for 
RADC,  Rome  Air  Development  Center, 
Rome,  N.Y. 

PHILIP  S.  BLACKMAN  is  an  operations 
analyst  for  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of 
Boston.  .  .  ROBERT  J.  COATES  is  a  manu- 
facturing engineer  in  the  Excelsior  Div.  of 
The  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington,  Conn.  .  . 
GEORGE  E.  GRIMMELL  is  a  roll  and 
bearing  engineer  for  the  Bethlehem  Steel 
Corp.  at  their  Burns  Harbor  Plant,  Chester- 
ton, Indiana.  .  .  JOHN  KOPCHIK,  JR.,  is  a 
1/Lt.  in  the  U.S.  Army.  ..  ROBERT  A. 
LISAUSKAS  has  received  an  MS  degree 
from  WPI  and  is  presently  a  candidate  for  a 
PhD  degree,  also  at  WPI.  .  .  Another  PhD 
candidate  is  ROBERT  J.  SCALZI.  He  is  at 
the  University  of  New  Hampshire  in  Dur- 
ham. .  .  Standard  Oil  of  N.J.  employs 
ROBERT  A.  SINUC  as  a  project  engineer  in 
Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  DAVID  A.  TORONE 
is  a  field  engineer  for  the  Philadelphia  (Pa.) 
Electric  Co.  Dave  lives  in  Springfield,  Pa.  .  . 
RUSSELL  W.  EDMANDS  is  a  chemical 
engineer  with  Air  Products  &  Chemicals, 
Inc.,  in  Allentown,  Pa.  .  .  General  Electric 
Co.    employs    RICHARD    B.    NELSON    in 


•HE  JOURNAL 


55 


Schenectady,  N.Y.  as  a  steam  turbine 
specialist.  .  .  Navy  Lt.  JOHN  B.  TATA  is  a 
navigation  instructor  at  the  U.S.  Naval 
Academy,  Annapolis,  Md.  He  recently  re- 
turned from  a  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam.  .  . 
WILLIAM  F.  ELLIOTT,  assistant  director 
of  admissions  at  WPI  for  the  past  four  years, 
has  accepted  a  position  as  associate  director 
of  admissions  at  Carnegie-Mellon  University 
in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

1967 
Married:  Army  2/Lt.  PETER  J. 
DICKERSON  to  Miss  Ann  Loufus  of  Lunen- 
burg, Mass.  in  a  military  wedding  at  Fort 
Hood,  Texas  on  April  25,  1970.  .  .  Army 
Capt.  DAVID  K.  HEEBNER  to  Miss  Bonnie 
V.  Taylor  of  Oakham,  Mass.  in  Worcester, 
Mass.  on  May  10,  1970.  Dave  is  now 
stationed  in  Vietnam. 

JOSE    R.    ALONSO,    MS,    is  a   demon- 
strator   in    the    Department    of    Industrial 
Science    at    the    University   of   Melbourne, 
Victoria,     Australia.  ..  STEPHEN     R-.    AL- 
PERT   reports:    "I   just  have  to  finish   my 
dissertation  for  my   PhD  degree  in  Mathe- 
matics  at    Lehigh    Univ.    I    am   presently   a 
'full-time'  teaching  assistant  and  am  teach- 
ing probability  and,  of  all  things,  assisting  in 
basic     astronomy.".  .  .  Avco's      Bay     State 
Abrasives    Div.   in   Westboro,   Mass.   reports 
that    CHARLES    T.    BLANCHARD    is    em- 
ployed by  them  as  a   project  engineer.  .  . 
EDWARD  S.   CIARPELLA    is  a  teacher  in 
the  Tiverton   (R.I.)  School  system.  He  has 
received    a    National    Science    Foundation 
Grant  to  study  for  an  advanced  degree  in 
mathematics  and  will  enter  Illinois  Institute 
of  Technology  in  Chicago  in  September.  .  . 
DAVID    R.    COLLETTE    has    received    an 
MBA   degree  from  American   International 
College    in    Springfield,    Mass.    Dave    is    a 
project  engineer  for  Monsanto  Chemical  Co. 
in         Springfield,         Mass..  .  .  JOHN         M. 
KUENZLER   is  now  residing  in  Elk  Grove, 
III.  .  .  Bethlehem      Steel      Corp.      employs 
JAMES  W.  MANNING  in  Lackawana,  N.Y. 
as  a  turn  foreman.  .  .  FRANK  D.  MANTER 
has  completed  a  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam, 
has  been  discharged   from  the  service,  and 
expects   to  work   in  Boston.  .  .  Wisconsin  is 
the  location  of  WILLIAM  O.  MESSER.  He 
is   in   Milwaukee  where  he  is  employed  by 
Hercules,  Inc.  and  is  a  technical  representa- 
tive. .  .    Navy  Lt.  j.g.  PAUL  G.  TRUDEL  is 
presently    stationed    in    Bainbridge,   Del. 
ROBERT    D.    WATKINS    is  assistant   plant 
engineer  at  New  England  High  Carbon  Wire 
Corp.    in   Millbury,  Mass.  .  .    GREGORY  J. 
GOULET     is    a    reliability    engineer    with 
Viatron  Computer  Service,  Inc..  in  Bedford. 
Mass.  .  .  MARSHALL      A.      KAPLAN      has 
joined    the    Peace  Corps  and   is   located   in 
India...    Navy  Ens.  GREGORY  R.  BLACK- 
BURN  is  stationed  in  the  Philippines. 
1968 
Born:     To    Mr.    and    Mrs.    DAVID    A. 


SWERCEWSKI,  a  daughter,    Katherine,  on 
July  11,  1969. 

JOHN  P.  GAHAGAN  is  a  teacher  in  the 
school  system  in  St.  John,  New  Brunswick. 
He  teaches  at  Milledgeville  North  High 
School.  .  .  Lincoln  Electric  in  Cleveland, 
Ohio  has  JOSEPH  C.  NAPPI  as  an  engi- 
neer. .  .  BRUCE  A.  TUPPER  is  working  in 
Whippany,  N.J.  where  he  is  a  member, 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs.  .  . 
ROBERT  D.  WOOG  is  plant  manager  for 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  in 
Newark,  N.J.  .  .  ROBERT  C.  GOSLING  has 
received  an  MS  degree  from  WPI  and  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Public  Service  Co. 
of  New  Hampshire  and  is  located  in  Man- 
chester. .  .  Three  members  of  the  class  who 
are  in  the  service  are:  Army  1/Lt.  ERIC  K. 
DURLING,  who  has  completed  a  tour  of 
duty  in  Thailand  and  is  now  stationed  in 
Germany;  Army  1/Lt.  DAVID  J.  GUM- 
BLEY,  who  is  in  Vietnam  with  a  construc- 
tion battalion;  and  Air  Force  2/Lt. 
THOMAS  J.  PERARO,  who  is  a  pilot 
trainee  at  Laughlin  AFB,  Texas.  .  . 
GREGORY  T.  SOVAS  will  enter  graduate 
school  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
September.  .  .  THEODOR  A.  HEIDT,  JR.,  is 
a  district  engineer  with  the  Torrington  Co. 
and  he  is  located  in  Milwaukee,  Wise.  .  . 
Dow  Chemical  Co.  employs  BRUCE  G. 
LOVELACE  in  Midland,  Mich,  in  their 
Midland  Div.  styrene  section.  .  .  PETER  C. 
STANLEY  is  an  engineer-in-training  with 
the  Boston  Edison  Co.  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  . 
EDWARD  M.  ZAKREZEWSKI  is  employed 
by  Cincinnati  Milacron  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio 
as  a  design  engineer  in  their  research  and 
development  dept.  .  .  Army  1/Lt.  IVAN  V. 
BEGGS  is  stationed  in  New  Olm,  Ger- 
many. .  .  Army  Lt.  DANIEL  C.  CREAMER 
is  a  guided  missile  maintenance  officer.  .  . 
Also  in  the  Armed  Forces  are:  Army  Major 
RODNEY  W.  LOGAN,  MS,  who  is  a  com- 
munications electronics  specialist  stationed 
in  Washington,  D.C.;  and  Army  Sgt.  JAMES 
M.  PERKINS,  who  is  an  infantryman. 

1969 

Married:  MICHAEL  J.  SCELZO  to  Miss 
Cheryl  Janis  DiPanfilo  of  Wobum,  Mass.  on 
February  14,  1970.  Mike  is  a  chemical 
engineer  with  Purex  Corp.  in  Wilmington, 
Calif. 

Army  Pfc.  RICHARD  C.  CARLSON  is 
currently  stationed  in  Korea.  .  .  RONALD  J. 
DROZDICK  is  an  associate  engineer  with 
Atlantic  Richfield  in  Houston,  Texas. 
ERIC  H.  NICKERSON  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  with  the  Burndy  Corp.  in  Norwalk, 
Conn.  .  .  General  Electric  Co.  employs 
ROBERT  L.  STESSEL  in  W.  Lynn,  Mass.  as 
a  service  engineer.  .  .  B.  LEE  TUTTLE  is  a 
graduate  teaching  assistant  at  Penn  State  in 
the  College  of  Earth  &  Mineral  Sciences.  .  . 
Also  a  graduate  teaching  assistant  is  DAVID 


A.  ZLOTEK.  He  is  at  WPI  in  the  EE  dept. 
and  is  working  toward  an  MS  degree.  .  . 
JAMES  W.  FOLEY  is  a  student  at  Case 
Western  Reserve  University  in  Cleveland, 
Ohio.  .  .  Humble  Oil  &  Refining  Co.  em- 
ploys PETER  T.  GROSCH  in  King  of 
Prussia,  Pa.  ..  MICHAEL  W.  NOGA  is  a 
technical  engineering  representative  with 
The  Trane  Co.  in  Brighton,  Mass.  He  lives  in 
Waltham.  .  .WARREN  L.  ANDERSON  has 
been  commissioned  a  second  Lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  is  stationed  in 
Texas.  .  .  Westinghouse  Electric  Co.  employs 
Z.  RONALD  STELMAK  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
as  a  sales  engineer.  .  .  Army  Lt.  HENRY  S. 
SWEET  is  stationed  at  Fort  Bliss,  Texas. 

1970 

Placement  Office  statistics  released  in 
June  indicated  that  for  the  293  members  of 
the  class  121  people  had  accepted  employ- 
ment; 57  would  attend  graduate  school;  27 
would  enter  the  service;  2  had  accepted 
teaching  positions;  2  would  enter  the  Peace 
Corps;  37  were  undecided;  and  47  failed  to 
answer  the  questionnaire.  For  those  ac- 
cepting employment,  the  average  salary  was 
$831  per  month,  or  $9972  annually. 

Some  of  the  members  of  the  class  who 
will  be  attending  graduate  school  are: 
ROBERT  BRENNAN,  ROGER  HENZE, 
and  JAMES  SMALL  (Cornell);  DAVID 
QUAGLINI,  JR.,  ALAN  KOLACZKOWSKI, 
and  HENRY  BLOCK  (Penn  State); 
LARRY  VALLEE,  PETER  LALOR, 
FRANCIS  VERNILE,  TONY  TOSCANO, 
BILL  DUDZIK,  BOB  GRILLO,  and  PHILIP 
RADER  (Univ.  of  Conn.);  and  JOHN 
BOYD,  PAUL  PERRON,  FRANK  POPE, 
PAUL  WILSON,  STEVE  CROSBY,  and 
DICK  SCHWARTZ  (WPI). 

Some  of  the  members  of  the  class  who 
have  accepted  employment  are:  ED  MASON 
(Bee  Plastics,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.);  DAVID 
HENDRICKSON  and  DONALD  RAPP  (E.I. 
duPont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Inc.);  BRUCE 
SAMUELSON  (Buffalo  Forge  Co.);  RANDY 
SABLICH  (Grumman,  Bethpage,  N.  Y.); 
RALPH  Dl  IORIO  (AT&T,  White  Plains, 
N.Y.);  ROGER  ETHERINGTON  (Dow 
Chem.,  Freeport,  Tex.);  BILL  HILLNER 
(Trane  Co.,  Lacrosse,  Wise);  KAL  NGOON 
and  JIM  FORD  (State  Mutual,  Worcester); 
JOHN  PELLI  (Phi  Gamma  Delta  Fraternity. 
Washington,  D.C.);  LEON  SCRUTON 
(Clairol,  Stamford,  Conn.);  STU  NICKER- 
SON (Proctor  &  Gamble,  Quincy,  Mass. I.- 
BILL HAKKINEN  (Chas.  Pfizer  Co..  Inc., 
Groton,  Conn.);  CLARK  KNICKER- 
BOCKER (Hooker  Chemical,  Niagara  Falls, 
N.Y.);  FRED  THUMM  (State  of  Conn. 
Transportation  Dept.,  Wethersfield,  Conn.); 
TOM  HE  I  NOLO  (Heald  Machine.  Worces- 
ter); GREG  BACKSTROM  (Xerox  Corp., 
Rochester.  N.Y.);  OLIVER  BRIGGS 
(Koppers.  Baltimore). 


56 


THE  JOURNAl 


DIRECTORY  OF  CHAPTER  OFFICERS 


Berkshire 

President,  F.  J.  Gamari,  '54.  Sand  Springs  Rd..  Williamstown,  Mass. 
Secretary-Treasurer.  P.  J.  Hopkinson,  '66,  65  Clydesdale  Dr..  Pittsfield,  Mass. 
Council,  K.  E.  Haaland,  '53,  78  William  St.,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Boston 

President,  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  45  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass. 
Vice  President,  J.  W.  Lebourveau,  '44, 1 74  Washington  Ave.,  Needham,  Mass. 
Secretary,  R.  D.  Behn,  '63,  20  Concord  Ave.,  Apt.  1 2,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Treasurer,  T.  B.  Newman,  Jr.,  '64,  Emerson  Gardens,  Apt.  1 1 , 

Lexington,  Mass. 
Council,  E.  C.  Hoglund,  '27,  26  Willowdale  Rd.,  Winchester,  Mass. 

E.  Lagerholm,'44, 100  Memorial  Dr.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

R.  D.  Behn, '63. 

D.  J.  Wright,  '46D,  41  Birch  Rd..  Natick,  Mass. 

J.  R.  Corf,  '46,  30  Thornberry,  Winchester,  Mass. 

Central  New  York 

President,  R.  W.  Swanson,  '51 ,  301  Windsor  Dr.,  DeWitt,  N.Y. 
Secretary.  N.T.  Buske, '59,  220  Hickok  Ave.,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 
Council,  D.  W.  Prosser,  '61,  6  Florence  St.,  Auburn,  N.  Y. 

Chicago 

President,  D.  A.  Johnson,  '60,  21 1 0  Lilac  Terrace,  Arlington  Heights,  III. 
Secretary,  J.  Wary,  '59,  704  W.  Chicago  Ave.,  Hinsdale,  111. 
Treasurer,  D.  L.  Goodman,  '62,  903  S.  Norbury  St.,  Lombard,  III. 
Council,  R.  A.  Berg, '59,  1433  Fairway  Dr.,  Lake  Forest,  III. 

Cleveland-Akron 

President,  R.  D.  Popp, '54,  515  Parkside  Dr.,  Bay  Village,  Ohio 
Vice  President,  R.  B.  Sundheim,  '58,  3642  Traynham  Rd.,  Shaker  Heights,  Ohio 
Council,  L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34, 1334  Cleveland  Heights  Blvd., 
Cleveland  Heights,  Ohio 

Connecticut  Valley 

President,  L.  E.  Stratton,  '39,  74  Carlisle  St.,  Springfield.  Mass. 
Vice  President,  D.  J.  Schulz,  '61 ,  Granville  Rd.,  Southwick,  Mass. 
Secretary,  P.  J.  Brown,  '50,  50  Van  Horn  St.,  W.  Springfield,  Mass. 
Treasurer,  S.  P.  Mozden,  Jr.,  '63,  55  Lee  St.,  E.  Longmeadow,  Mass. 
Council,  A.  L.  Brownlee, '33,  Feeding  Hills  Rd.,  Westfield,  Mass. 
P.  E.  Evans,  '48,  69  Clairmont  St.,  Longmeadow,  Mass. 

Detroit 

President,  E.  H.  Judd,  '50  ,1 231  Linden  St.,  Plymouth,  Mich. 

Eastern  Connecticut 

President,  H.  N.  Harris,  Jr.,  '57,  32  Corey  Lane,  Niantic,  Conn. 

Hartford 

President,  J.  F.  Barresi,  '60,  28  Stagecoach  Rd.,  Windsor,  Conn. 

Vice  President,  P.  R.  Cultrera,  '62,  Bunker  Hill  Rd.,  Canton  Center,  Conn. 

Secretary,  C.  H.  Bidwell,  Jr.,  '57,  21 9  Naubuc  Ave.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn 

Treasurer,  W.  L.  Brown,  '60,  3  Redstone,  Weatogue,  Conn. 

Council,  E.  C.  Campbell,  '43, 1 5  Fairfield  Rd.,  W.  Hartford,  Conn. 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37,  20  Bates  St.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

J.  J.  O'Connor,  Jr.,  '54,  32  Terrace  Rd.,  Wethersfield,  Conn. 

Hudson- Mohawk 

President,  J.  J.  Osvald,'65, 1138  Hendrickson  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  H.  A.  Christopher, '61, 105  Acorn  Dr.,  Scotia,  N.Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  B.  Sinder,  '64, 1921  Baker  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Delegate,  B.  A.  Podberesky,  '58,  876  Whitney  Dr.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Los  Angeles 

President,  P.  C.  Yankauskas,  '42,  4508  Blackthorne  Ave.,  Long  Beach,  Calif. 
Vice  President.  D.  R.  Bates,  '40, 1791  Terry  Lynn  Dr.,  Santa  Anna,  Calif. 

New  Haven 

President,  J.J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46C,  255  Riverside  Dr.,  Mt.  Carmel,  Conn. 
Vice  President,  H.  S.  Altenburg.  '65,  28  Remer  St.,  Ansonia,  Conn. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  N.  J.  Barone,'65,  266  Chapel  St.,  Milford,  Conn. 
Council,  C.  W.  McElroy,'34,  25  Bear  Path  Rd„  Hamden,  Conn. 
J.  M.  Halloran,  Jr.,  '40,  63  Mowry  St.,  Hamden,  Conn. 

New  York 

President,  S.  L.  Vrusho, '57,  IBM  Corp.,  2  Penn  Plaza,  New  York,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  J.  J.  Gushaw,  '35,  999  Roxbury  Dr.,  Westbury,  N.Y. 
Treasurer,  G.  P.  Vittas,  '63,  21 01  Voorhies  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 
I      Council,  J.  A.  Birch,  '34, 1 534  Wellington  Rd.,  Merrick,  N.Y. 

S.  J.  Spencer,  '49,  5  Normandy  Rd.,  Larchmont,  N.Y. 

T.  B.  Graham,  '38, 15  Circle  Rd„  Scarsdale,  N.Y. 


North  Shore 

President,  D.  E.  Snay, '63,  Queensland  Rd.,  N.  Billerica,  Mass. 
Vice  President,  D.  J.  Dwinell,  '34, 16  Manning  St.,  Reading,  Mass. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  D.  R.  Ekstrom,'63,  16  Hathaway  Ave.,  Beverly,  Mass. 
Council,  J.  M.  Szymanski,  '62,  Paradise  Travel  Service,  Inc.,  1 27  Harvard  St., 

Allston,  Mass. 

Northern  California 
President,  F.  D.  Riley,  '63,  3220  Acorn  Way,  San  Jose,  Calif. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  J.  A.  Alfieri,  '59,  22465  Rancho  Ventura,  #B, 

Cupertino,  Calif. 

Northern  New  Jersey 

President,  S.  K.  Lee,  '60,  317  Lawn  Ridge  Rd„  Orange,  N.  J. 
Vice  President,  G.  R.  Backlund, '55, 153  Oakland  Rd„  Maplewood,  N.J. 
Vice  President,  H.  C.  Dearborn,  '37,  32  Colt  Rd.,  Summit,  N.J. 
Secretary,  W.  R.  Hopkins,  '65,  37  W.  Ruby  Ave.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J. 
Treasurer,  V.  E.  Kohman,  '43.  32  Summit  Rd.,  Verona,  N.J. 
Council,  N.  J.  Taupeka.  '58,  105  Stony  Hill  Rd.,  Eatontown,  N.J. 
B.  V.  Ricciardi,  '58,  237  Ivanhoe  Path,  Manasquan,  N.J. 

Pacific  Northwest 

President,  P.  J.  Topelian,  '30,  443  1 60th  Ave.,  S.E.,  Bellevue,  Wash. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  M.  Lloyd,  11/51,15714  S.E.  26th  St.,  Bellevue,  Wash. 

Philadelphia 

President,  J.  F.  Howe,  Jr., '57,  2217  Winding  Way,  Drexel  Hill,  Pa. 

Pittsburgh 

President,  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55,  804  Ella  St.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Vice  President,  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36,  21 2  Connecting  Rd„  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  G.  B.  Brown, '55, 140  Sunset  Dr.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Council,  L.  H.  Longton,  Jr.,  '49,  1  20  Watt  Lane,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Rhode  Island 

President,  J.  K.  Karalekas,  '58,  74  Ferncrest  Dr.,  E.  Providence,  R.I. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.  F.  DiZoglio, '60,  RFD  1,  Box  451,  N.  Scituate,  R.I. 
Council,  W.  R.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58,  37  Fir  Glade  Dr.,  Warwick,  R.I. 

Rochester-Genesee 

President,  R.  P.  Kostka,  '63, 14  Bryn  Mawr  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  L.J.  Rossi, '61,  214  Elmgrove  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  C.  E.  Hunt,  Jr.,  '34,  8  Birmingham  Dr.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
Council,  A.  R.  Hunderup, '56,  625  Shadyglen  Circle,  Webster,  N.Y. 

Southeastern 

President,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  557  E.  Wesley  Rd.,  N.E.,  Atlanta,  Ga. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.  C.  Bragg,  '24,  Georgia  Inst,  of  Technology, 
Engineering  Mechanics,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Washington 

President,  D.J.  Brosnihan,  III, '62,  41 10  Arcadia  Rd.,  Alexandria,  Va. 
Vice  President,  K.  A.  Homon,'62,  7704  Miller  Fall  Rd.,  Rockville,  Md. 
Secretary,  D.  M.  Cornell,  '60,  9  N.  Summit  Dr.,  Apt.  302,  Gaithersburg,  Md 
Treasurer.  J.  W.  Mahan,  '60,  3907  Isbell  St.,  Wheaton,  Md. 
Council,  L.  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35,  4023  Oliver  St.,  Chevy  Chase,  Md. 
W.  J.  Bank,  '46B,  7704  Massena  Rd.,  Bethesda,  Md. 

Western  New  York 

President,  K.  R.  Berggren,  Jr.,  '49,  685  Porterville  Rd.,  E.  Aurora,  N.Y. 
Vice  President,  J.  H.  Geffken,  '63,  379  Fruitwood  Terr.,  Williamsville,  N.Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer,  J.  B.  Flynn,  Jr.,  '69,  Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Durey  Div., 

N.  Tonawanda,  N.Y. 
Council,  F.  W.  Swan,  Jr.,  '35, 1 28  Church  St.,  E.  Aurora,  N.Y. 

Wilmington 

President,  H.  F.  DeCarli,  '52,  2405  Landon  Dr.,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Ferrari,  '51 ,  2404  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Secretary,  W.  E.  Lankau,  Jr.,  '64,  6  Rector  Ct.,  Apt.  C,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Treasurer,  R.  F.  Smith,  III, '61,  3351  Altamont  Dr.,  Devonshire,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Council,  P.  Michelman/51,2410  Lori  Lane  South,  Tarleton,  Wilmington,  Del. 

Worcester 

President,  F.  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53,  23  Brantwood  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Vice  President.^.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr..'56,WPI,  Admissions  Office,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Secretary,  J.  H.  McCabe.  '68,  9  Brownell  Circle,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Treasurer,  C.  W.  Mello,  '61,  6  Orrison  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Council,  R.  P.  Engvall,'57,  30  Conger  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

N.  J.  Crowley,  '50,  26  Willard  Ave.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

S.  R.  Lindberg,  '51 ,  98  Beechwood  Rd.,  Holden,  Mass. 

P.  F.  Seibold,  '50,  6  Olean  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

A.  J.  Ruksnaitis,  '53, 32  Saxon  Rd„  Worcester,  Mass. 

N.  M.  Gamache,  '38, 1 0  Midland  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

C.  W.  Mello, '61. 


HE  JOURNAL 


EXPECT  THE  UNEXPECTED 
FROM 


NORTON 


ANART/F/C/Al  ARTERY 
FOR  HEART-LUNG  MACHINES. 


Soon,  hundreds  of  people  will  be  alive 
because  of  heart  transplants.  Thousands 
already  owe  their  lives  to  open  heart 
surgery. 

Neither  of  these  surgical  miracles 
would  be  possible  without  machines 
that  can  take  the  place  of  a  heart  for 
upwards  of  five  hours. 

At  least  70%  of  all  heart-lung 
machines  depend  for  their  "arteries"  on 


Tygon®—  a  unique  plastic  tubing  invented 
by  Norton. 

Norton  also  helps  save  fives  in  Viet- 
nam with  ultra  lightweight  body  armor; 
helps  explore  outer  space  with  a  device 
that  scrapes  dust  from  the  surface  of 
the  moon;  helps  control  water  pollu- 
tion with  porous  materials.  Norton 
Company  worldwide:  where  you  can 
expect  the  unexpected. 


Norton  Company,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01606 


» 


jtg>* 


Ability  and  performance  beyond  the 
ordinary.  Pacesetter.  Innovator.  Natural 
leader.  If  the  name  of  the  game  is  forging, 
the  superstar  is  Wyman-Gordon  g| 

Wyman-Gordon  Company.  Worcester.  Mass      •     Chicago.  Detroit.  Dayton.  Los  Angeles.  Fort  Worth.  Seattle.  Bombay.  Geneva 


the 
journal 

'ublished  by  the  Alumni  Association 
f  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

V.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 
'resident:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 
'ice  Presidents: 
!.  R.  Gabarro,  '51; 
i.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 

\l.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 

\ssistant  Alumni  Secretary: 

.  J.  Hebert,  '66; 

'ast  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36; 

xecutive  Committee. 

lembers-at-Large: 
I  :.W.  Backstrom,  '30;  C.  C.  Bonin,  '38; 

.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 

und  Board: 
J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 

I.F.Burke,  Jr.,'38;G.  F.  Crowther,'37; 

.G.  Humphrey,Jr.,'35;A.Kalenian,'33; 
»..  A.  Penoncello,  '66. 

ilumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Iffice  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

/lagazine  Secretary: 

Jance  C.  Thompson; 

'und  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 

Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter; 

".lerk-Jypist:  Cecile  Savageau. 


In  This  Issue 

WPI's  Clean  Machines         page  two 

It  began  as  a  Caltech  —  MIT  Clean  Air  Car  Race,  and  it  ended  as  a  WPI-dominated  race.  In 
an  interesting  article,  Roger  Perry  discusses  what  it  takes  to  build  a  winner. 

An  Interview  With  President  Hazzard page  nine 

After  his  first  year  as  president  of  WPI,  Dr.  Hazzard  reflects  on  some  of  the  events  of  that 
year  and  also  takes  a  look  at  the  future. 

Responsibility  and  Responsiveness  page  twenty 

Excerpts   from   a    presentation    to   alumni    by   the    Dean    of  Student   Affairs,   Donald   P. 
Reutlinger. 

Chapter  Programs  and  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund page  twenty-two 

The  Annual  Alumni  Fund  and  chapter  programs  are  discussed  in  this  article. 

DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes         12 

Varsity  Review 16 

Winter  Athletic  Schedules 19 

In  Memory 23 

Your  Class  and  Others 26 

Directory  of  Chapter  Officers 33 


Vol.  74 


Fall  1970 


Warren  B.  Zepp,  '42 
Editor  and  Business  Manager 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Assistant  Editor  and  Business  Manager 

the  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
ipring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
jnatter  July  26,  1918.  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
/larch  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
Bear.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
'Ulumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
nstitute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


TE  JOURNAL 


WPI's 

Clean 

Machin 


by  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45 
Director  of  Public  Relations 


When  the  first  place  awards  were  presented  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race,  teams  from 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  were  the  winners  in  two  of 
the  three  divisions  of  competition  they  entered.  They  had 
also  won  two  lesser  awards.  They  were  the  only  two- 
division  winners  in  the  race.  Was  it  just  luck?  Hardly.  What, 
then,  does  it  take  to  produce  multiple  winners  in  competi- 
tion with  42  teams  from  36  of  the  nation's  leading  colleges? 

In  addition  to  five  teams  of  highly  competent  students, 
the  most  important  single  ingredient  was  cooperation.  .  . 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  literally  hundreds  of  people 
who  became  so  interested  in  the  project  that  they  wanted 
to  do  all  they  could  to  help  produce  a  winner.  Of  almost 
equal  importance  was  a  keen  spirit  of  cooperation. 

At  WPI,  the  preparation  of  five  entries  for  the  race  was 
undertaken  as  an  educational  project.  It  had  the  full 
support  of  the  college  in  terms  of  faculty  advisors,  fund 
raising,  logistic  support  and  public  relations.  To  those  of  us 
who  were  intimately  associated  with  the  project,  anything 
less  than  an  all-out  supportive  effort  would  have  fallen  far 
short  of  the  standards  set  by  the  students  themselves,  many 
of  whom  worked  18  to  20  hours  a  day  throughout  the  late 
spring  and  summer,  to  complete  their  entries. 

Academic  credit  for  the  work  as  part  of  a  projects 
course  was  available  to  the  students.  Most,  however, 
became  involved  in  the  spirit  of  challenge  and  adventure. 
They  found  plenty  of  both. 

The  project  actually  began  last  December  when  a  news 
release  was  received  from  MIT  announcing  plans  for  the 
race.  The  Mechanical  Engineering  Dept.  set  up  a  meeting 
for  any  students  interested  in  the  race  project.  Prof.  Roger 
R.  Borden  expected  about  a  dozen  at  the  meeting  but 
instead,  there  were  about  60  students.  They  quickly 
organized  into  teams,  each  with  a  different  design  ap- 
proach. 

By  spring,  the  design  work  for  five  different  vehicles  was 
completed  and  the  work  of  building  began.  This  was  when  the 
problems  began  and  this,  too,  was  when  education 
became  unconventional  but  thoroughly  rewarding.  It  was 
learning  through  doing  and  called  for  real  engineering 
involvement.  When  the  design  called  for  a  pump  to  provide 
1500  psi  pressure  for  the  feedwater  system  on  the  steamer, 
for  example,  the  team  had  to  find  out  who  made  such  a 


pump,  what  the  delivery  schedule  was,  and  what  it  cost. 
They  learned  about  ordering,  delayed  freight  shipments, 
and  about  the  time  it  takes  to  turn  ideas  into  hardware. 

Allen  Downs,  '71,  of  Needham,  Mass.,  captain  of  the 
"WPI  Great  Teakettle"  team,  commented,  "Professor 
Zwiep  told  us  very  early  in  the  project  that  whenever  we 
estimated  what  something  would  cost  or  how  long  it  would 
take,  we  should  multiply  it  by  five.  You  know,  he  was  right 
on  the  button." 

When  the  designs  were  ready,  it  was  apparent  that  it 
would  take  a  lot  of  money  to  put  five  cars  on  the  starting 
line.  Here  the  teams  had  the  support  of  the  University 
Relations  Dept.  Douglas  McKeown,  with  his  many  indus- 
trial contacts,  helped  the  teams  prepare  letters  to  business 
firms  requesting  specific  pieces  of  equipment  or  financial 
support.  His  telephone  was  also  used  heavily  in  making 
some  of  the  business  contacts.  He  came  back  to  his  office 
one  day  to  find  three  students  calling  Paris,  France,  in  an 
unsuccessful  effort  to  track  down  a  gas  turbine  suitable  for 
automotive  use. 

The  overall  price  tag  on  the  project  eventually  reached 
about  $80,000.  Most  of  this  was  for  cars  and  equipment 
and  the  rest  represented  the  expenses  of  participating  in  the 
race  itself.  Over  60  industrial  firms  contributed  equipment 
and  funds  toward  the  project.  Hundreds  of  alumni  sent  in 
checks  to  help  as  did  students,  parents,  faculty,  and  staff. 
At  race  time,  the  project  was  just  about  breaking  even 
financially.  Winning  two  first  place  awards  brought  WPI 
two  $5000  grants  for  continued  research  on  the  project 
from  the  National  Air  Pollution  Control  Administration. 
They  also  called  to  say  they  would  help  the  WPI  steam 
team  in  the  same  way.  However,  there  are  still  some  race 
expenses  to  be  covered,  according  to  Prof.  Donald  N. 
Zwiep,  Head  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Dept.  and 
overall  coordinator  of  the  race  project. 

Although  many  firms  declined  the  opportunity  to 
participate  and  some  just  never  bothered  to  answer  the 
letters,  there  were  enough  companies  who  did  accept  the 
invitation  to  have  a  part  in  the  race  to  assure  the  teams  that 
they  would  have  the  equipment  needed.  In  a  time  when 
college  students  are  reported  to  be  avoiding  careers  in 
business  because  they  consider  big  business  too  impersonal 
and  concerned  only  with  money,  the  clean  air  car  teams 


THE  JOURNA" 


found  just  the  opposite.  They  found  managers  and  engi- 
neers willing  to  go  to  great  lengths  to  help  them.  The 
General  Electric  Industry  Control  Dept.  in  Salem,  Va.,  for 
example,  contributed  the  controls  for  the  WPI  Electric 
Hybrid  vehicle  and  then  sent  two  engineers  to  Worcester  for 
two  days  to  check  them  out  after  installation. 

The  first  clean  air  car  to  become  operational  was 
propane  powered.  Starting  with  a  donated  1964  Chevelle, 
the  team  prepared  a  prototype  of  its  eventual  entry  by 
installing  an  American  Bosch  conversion  system  to  burn 
propane  gas.  Much  of  the  early  publicity  about  the  race 
featured  this  particular  car  since  it  was  one  of  the  first 
completed  by  any  college. 

As  the  project  progressed,  the  thoughts  of  driving  an 
older  used  car  in  the  race  became  a  matter  of  concern. 
Suppose  a  wheel  bearing  or  a  grease  seal  failed  from  old  age 
and  put  the  car  out  of  the  race?  It  wasn't  worth  the  risk  so 
the  original  "WPI  Natural  Gasser"  was  replaced  by  a  1970 
Nova  dubbed  the  "WPI  Propane  Gasser".  However,  the 
original  gasser  continued  to  operate  as  a  utility  vehicle, 
providing  additional  publicity  as  it  was  driven  around  town. 
The  new  gasser  went  on  to  win  its  division  of  competition. 
It  was  also  judged  the  cleanest  car  in  the  race,  amassing  the 
highest  number  of  points  of  all  cars  in  the  race. 

The  second  car  to  become  operational  was  the  "WPI 
Clean  Air  SAAB".  This  entry  used  unleaded  gasoline  in  a 
SAAB  99E  equipped  with  a  computer-controlled  fuel 
injection  system.  The  car,  the  cost  of  conversion  and  much 
of  the  technical  assistance  for  this  entry  were  contributed 
by  SAAB  of  America.  In  addition  to  the  use  of  experi- 
mental pistons  and  camshaft,  the  SAAB  was  also  equipped 
with    Englehard    catalytic   converters   to  minimize  hydro- 


carbon emissions.  This  team  included  the  only  girl  on  the 
WPI  roster,  Miss  Nancy  Wood  of  Gardner,  Mass.,  who  was 
one  of  only  four  women  drivers  in  the  entire  race.  Nancy  is 
a  WPI  coed  in  the  sophomore  class  majoring  in  mechanical 
engineering. 

The  "WPI  Dark  Horse"  was  so  named  because  it  was 
developed  off  campus  in  New  Jersey  at  the  research  center 
of  a  major  oil  company  which  preferred  to  remain 
anonymous.  They  arranged  for  the  Ford  Mustang  car  and 
gave  complete  support  for  converting  it  into  a  fuel  injection 
entry  using  regular  leaded  gasoline.  Everything  not  neces- 
sary for  the  car's  operation  was  removed  to  save  weight. 
This  included  windows,  carpeting,  the  trunk  lid,  and  even 
the  regular  seats  which  were  replaced  with  others  which 
were  lighter  and  purely  functional.  The  anonymity  was 
broken  after  the  race  when  Mobil  World  featured  a  full 
front  page  picture  of  team  captain  Walter  Thompson,  '71, 
of  Mt.  Vernon,  N.H.,  with  the  Dark  Horse  in  front  of 
Mobil's  New  York  headquarters.  An  inside  page  picture  of 
the  car  included  Mobil  engineer  Bill  Mears,  WPI  '53,  who 
was  the  principal  advisor  to  the  team. 

Meanwhile,  back  at  the  Higgins  Laboratories,  the  "WPI 
Great  Teakettle"  and  the  "WPI  Hybrid-Electric  Vehicle" 
were  being  built  side  by  side  in  the  Clean  Air  Car  Lab 
(normally  known  as  the  Strength  Lab).  Throughout  the 
summer,  lights  burned  until  2  or  3  a.m.  and  sometimes  all 
night  as  these  two  teams  raced  against  a  rapidly  approach- 
ing deadline  to  complete  the  two  most  complex  of  the  WPI 
entries.  Each  team  had  to  develop  its  power  unit  and 
control  system  rather  than  modify  existing  equipment.  For 
the  Hybrid  team,  it  meant  adapting  industrial  electrical 
motors    and    controls    to    automotive    use.    This   car   was 


Drawn  by  Hampton  Falls,  N.H.,  artist  Mark  E.  Kelley, 
the  cartoon  at  the  top  of  page  2  was  used  in  a  series  of 
brochures  issued  by  WPI  describing  the  cars. 


Left  —  Working  on  the  WPI  Clean  Air  SAAB,  from  left,  team 
captain  Robert  Guertin,  Nancy  Wood,  John  Luikey,  and  Tom 
Mirarchi. 

Below  —  Christening  the  Great  Teakettle  with  a  can  of  golden 
brew  are,  left,  Tom  Werb,  and  John  Pratt. 


HE  JOURNAL 


plagued  by  overheating  problems  both  during  construction 
and  in  the  race  itself  but  the  team  managed  to  overcome 
each  problem  in  turn.  During  the  race,  they  added  an  "air 
conditioner"  to  cool  the  control  system.  It  was  made  from 
a  plastic  picnic  cooler  which  used  dry  ice  to  cool  air  coming 
in  through  flexible  ducts  before  it  was  directed  to  the 
troublesome  hot  spots.  There  wasn't  enough  cool  air, 
however,  to  keep  a  plastic  flashlight  from  melting  into  a 
gooey  mess  on  the  car  floor  when  it  went  through  the  120 
degree  heat  of  the  southwestern  desert.  In  spite  of  the  heat 
problems,  they  became  the  second  WPI  first  place  winner. 

"The  Great  Teakettle"  power  plant  had  to  be  built  by 
hand  almost  in  its  entirety.  Steam  components  for  auto- 
motive use  just  aren't  made.  The  team  followed  plans 
developed  by  R.  J.  Smith  Automotive  Steam  Systems  of 
Midway  City,  Calif.  They  built  their  own  steam  generator 
from  sheet  metal  and  tubing.  The  engine  was  converted  to  a 
uniflow  steam  engine  from  a  six  cylinder  Mercury  outboard 
engine.  Valves,  controls  and  all  other  parts  had  to  be 
located  or  improvised,  checked  out  and  then  installed.  In 
spite  of  working  18  to  20  hours  a  day,  the  steam  team 
wasn't  able  to  try  the  car  under  its  own  steam  until  only 
three  days  before  the  race  was  to  begin.  Speed  on  that  first 
run  was  a  disappointing  ten  miles  an  hour.  In  the  next  three 
days,  up  to  one  hour  before  the  race,  they  managed  to 
achieve  30  miles  an  hour  which  still  wasn't  enough  to  make 
it  practical  to  try  the  3600  mile  run.  Since  it  was  the  only 
one  of  four  steam  cars  originally  entered  in  the  race  which 
was  capable  of  running  under  steam  power  by  race  time, 
the  race  committee  requested  that  the  "Great  Teakettle" 
make  a  symbolic  start  across  the  line  even  though  it  only 
went  around  the  first  turn  where  a  WPI  car  took  it  in  tow 
for  the  return  trip  to  the  campus. 

No  account  of  the  race  would  be  complete  without  a 
word  of  commendation  for  the  Clean  Air  Car  Race 
Committee  for  a  magnificent  job  of  organizing  the  project 
and  providing  the  logistic  support  for  about  300  people 
during  the  cross  country,  week-long  drive.  The  committee 
of  students  from  MIT  and  Caltech  was  headed  by  MIT 
graduate  student  Robert  McGregor.  His  group  devised  the 
race  rules,  planned  the  route,  made  arrangements  for 
housing  and  feeding  enroute,  assigned  observers  to  each 
race  vehicle,  and  effectively  managed  every  aspect  of  the 
entire  race  from  planning  through  to  the  final  reports.  WPI 
enjoyed  the  complete  cooperation  of  the  committee 
throughout  the  project. 

Also  deserving  of  special  mention  were  the  WPI 
technicians  who  helped  in  building  the  cars.  M.E.  Dept. 
machinists  John  Grzyb  and  Bob  Taylor  were  involved  in  the 
project  throughout  the  late  spring  and  all  summer.  They 
also  went  to  California  as  part  of  the  support  team  to  help 
with  any  mechanical  troubles.  John  became  a  "godfather" 
to  the  men  who  used  his  shop  all  summer.  He  occasionally 
brought  in  steaks  from  home  to  cook  on  a  charcoal  grill. 


"They  live  on  bologna  sandwiches  and  cokes  and  they  don't 
get  enough  sleep.  They  need  a  good  meal  once  in  a  while  so 
this  is  my  contribution,"  he  said. 

Technicians  Joe  Gale  and  Felix  Tozeski  put  in  many 
hours  of  welding  on  the  cars,  often  late  into  the  evening. 
And  there  were  many  others  who  contributed  their  special 
talents. 

There  were  many  human  interest  anecdotes  that  could 
be  told  about  the  project.  A  few  days  before  the  race,  the 
Hybrid  team  was  faced  with  the  task  of  pulling  out  the 
engine  to  work  on  the  alternator.  They  had  been  working 
day  and  night  for  several  days  so  the  SAAB  team 
volunteered  to  work  through  the  night  to  remove  the 
engine  so  the  others  could  get  some  badly  needed  rest. 

One  of  the  team  members,  who  shall  remain  nameless  in 
this  article,  asked  if  he  could  bring  an  extra  guest  to  the 
special  showing  of  the  cars  and  the  luncheon  that  was  held 
August  14  for  parents  of  the  teams,  corporate  contributors, 
and  the  press.  "I'd  like  to  bring  my  girl.  We  haven't  had  a 
date  since  the  Fourth  of  July."  He  brought  her  to  the 
luncheon  and  then  to  a  cookout  at  Professor  Zwiep's  house 
where  the  entire  WPI  team  gathered  for  the  last  time  before 
the  race.  He  decided  to  take  the  rest  of  the  night  off  from 
the  car  project  and  enjoy  the  first  date  in  six  weeks  and 
then  promptly  fell  asleep  the  first  time  he  sat  down! 

From  the  very  beginning,  the  Clean  Air  Car  Project 
offered  WPI  several  opportunities  which  amply  justified  the 
full  support  the  project  was  given.  It  gave  continuing 
favorable  nationwide  publicity  to  WPI  such  as  the  college 
has  never  received  before.  The  project  caught  the  enthu- 
siasm of  alumni  all  over  the  country  and  they  responded 
not  only  with  financial  support  for  the  teams  but  also  a 
great  many  letters  of  encouragement  which  meant  much  to 
the  students.  With  the  WPI  PLAN  about  to  be  announced, 
the  race  project  was  an  excellent  test  of  the  project 
approach  to  education. 

The  race  was  a  public  relations  man's  dream.  Seldom 
does  a  single  project  offer  as  many  opportunities  to 
publicize  the  college;  to  involve  the  students,  faculty  and 
alumni;  and  to  associate  the  college  intimately  with  so 
many  industrial  firms. 

Many  of  the  things  which  gained  the  most  publicity 
were  done  primarily  to  help  the  teams  enroute  to  Califor- 
nia. Anticipating  the  questions  that  would  be  asked  each 
time  the  teams  stopped  for  fuel,  lunch,  or  at  the  end  of  the 
day's  run,  the  Public  Relations  Dept.  prepared  folders  on 
each  car  which  described  the  vehicle,  its  technical  specifica- 
tions, the  driving  team,  and  the  corporate  supporters.  It 
also  gave  a  brief  description  of  the  purpose  of  the  race. 
These  were  handed  out  by  the  hundreds. 

Another  publicity-getter  was  a  pin-on  button  with  the 
words  "Drive  and  Breathe,  WPI  Clean  Air  Cars".  They  were 
used  first  as  a  give-away  souvenir  to  those  who  contributed 
to  the  race  fund  at  public  showings  before  the  race.  The 


THE  JOURNAl 


Above  —  The  SAAB  during  roadworthiness  trials  at  Bedford  Air  Force 
Base  prior  to  the  race. 

Below  —  All  unnecessary  weight  was  removed  from  the  Dark  Horse, 
including  windows,  carpeting,  and  the  original  bucket  seats. 


William   S.    Dorman,    '48,    of    Tulsa,    with  his   family,    who 
formed  the  nucleus  of  the  Oklahoma  City  "pit  crew. " 


HE  JOURNAL 


balance  of  the  supply  was  divided  up  among  the  teams  at 
race  time  with  instructions  to  use  them  up.  The  first  WPI 
driver  through  each  toll  gate  passed  a  handful  of  buttons  to 
the  attendant  with  a  request  to  pass  them  down  the  line  to 
the  other  attendants.  Every  car  that  came  through  later  was 
met  with  a  WPI  button.  Policemen,  waitresses,  and  gas 
station  attendants  all  had  WPI  buttons.  In  Odessa,  Texas, 
after  finishing  the  day's  run,  Ed  Lowe  of  the  Gasser  team 
drove  into  town  to  buy  a  newspaper.  A  blinking  blue  light 
and  siren  brought  him  to  a  stop.  The  policeman's  only 
question  was,  "Have  you  got  any  more  of  those  WPI 
buttons  for  the  night  shift?" 

The  buttons  also  mysteriously  appeared  on  the  rear 
license  plates  of  cars  from  other  colleges  entered  in  the  race 
and  several  competing  teams  rolled  across  the  finish  line 
without  realizing  that  they  were  boosting  the  WPI  cause. 
There  were  independent  observers  assigned  by  the  race 
committee  to  ride  at  all  times  in  each  race  car  to  insure 
compliance  with  all  traffic  regulations  and  race  rules.  They, 
too,  wore  their  WPI  Clean  Air  Car  buttons  with  pride. 

One  of  the  early  letters  from  alumni  expressed  the  hope 
that  the  writer  might  be  able  to  see  the  cars  as  they  passed 
through  Texas  and  perhaps  give  the  teams  a  hand  if  they 
needed  help.  That  letter  from  Carl  Schwind,  '27,  of  Irving, 
Texas,  suggested  one  of  the  most  helpful  ideas  of  the 
project.  Alumni  in  each  of  the  stopover  cities  were 
organized  into  "pit  crews".  They  were  prepared  for  all  sorts 
of  emergencies.  They  had  garages  lined  up  for  all  night 
work  if  necessary.  They  were  also  prepared  to  have  local 
help  available  for  toothaches,  broken  eyeglasses,  or  spare 
parts  for  the  cars.  Each  pit  crew  had  box  lunches  ready  for 
the  next  day's  travel. 

It  was  the  pit  crew  in  Odessa,  headed  by  Art  Dinsmoor, 
'49,  who  helped  devise  the  dry  ice  air  conditioner  for  the 
Hybrid  Vehicle.  It  was  Ed  Judd,  '50,  of  Plymouth,  Mich., 
who  arranged  for  the  shipping  of  non-leaded  gasoline  to  pit 
crews  along  the  route.  It  was  Paul  Yankauskas,  '42,  of  Long 
Beach,  Calif.,  who  planned  the  Pot  Luck  and  Six  Pack 
picnic  at  Pasadena  where  a  WPI  contingent  of  about  30  was 
on  hand  to  greet  the  teams  as  they  finished  and  provide 
welcome  refreshment.  Other  pit  crew  chiefs  were  John 
Geffken,  '63,  of  the  Buffalo  Chapter,  who  drove  to 
Toronto  to  help  on  the  first  night  of  the  trip;  Prof. 
Mohammad  Amin,  '59,  who  was  on  hand  at  Champaign, 
III.,  Bill  Dorman,  '48,  of  Tulsa,  and  Robert  Johnson,  '27, 
who  headed  the  welcoming  committee  at  Tucson. 

Once  the  pit  crews  were  organized,  it  was  apparent  that 
they  needed  some  identifying  uniform  so  the  driving  teams 
could  recognize  them.  The  answer  was  a  styrofoam  pith 


helmet  with  a  WPI  decal  on  the  front.  These  hats  were  sent 
ahead  to  each  pit  crew  chief  and  similar  hats  were  given  to 
the  teams.  At  first,  the  drivers  felt  the  hats  were  excess 
baggage  but  after  the  first  day  or  two,  they  found  them  a 
real  help  in  locating  their  alumni  supporters.  The  hats  were 
an  excellent  publicity  device  and  they  gave  ready  identifica- 
tion in  any  news  pictures.  It  was  not  just  good  sportsman- 
ship which  prompted  the  Pasadena  pit  crew  to  rush  over  to 
congratulate  each  non-WPI  car  as  it  crossed  the  finish  line  in 
front  of  the  TV  cameras! 

Other  driving  teams  were  well  aware  of  WPI  by  the  end 
of  the  race.  No  other  teams  had  the  helmeted  pit  crews,  the 
Clean  Air  buttons,  or  the  descriptive  folders.  With  more 
cars  than  any  other  college  in  the  race,  WPI  also  had  one  of 
the  best  organized  support  teams  headed  by  Prof.  Donald 
Zwiep,  head  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Dept.  As  "tour 
commander",  he  was  responsible  for  the  logistic  planning  to 
get  24  people  (driving  teams  and  support  people),  four  race 
vehicles  and  their  accompanying  support  cars  across  the 
finish  line  and  then  get  them  all  back  again.  It  was  no  small 
task  but  it  was  handled  without  incident.  In  this  effort,  he 
was  assisted  by  Prof.  John  Mayer,  SAAB  crew  advisor,  who 
also  made  the  cross  country  trip. 

There  were  times  during  the  summer  when  students  and 
staff  alike  wondered  if  all  the  extra  work  on  nights  and 
weekends  was  really  going  to  pay  off.  However,  when  the 
awards  were  announced  at  the  final  banquet  in  Pasadena, 
there  were  no  longer  any  doubts.  WPI  students  had 
accepted  a  challenge  and  acquitted  themselves  with  honor 
in  the  face  of  competition  from  some  of  the  leading 
colleges  of  engineering  in  the  nation. 

What  does  it  take  to  produce  winners  like  this?  It  takes 
great  people  like  the  60  students  who  worked  on  the 
project  since  it  began.  They  were  a  cross  section  of  the 
student  body  academically,  by  departments,  and  by  any 
other  standard  of  comparison.  If  anything  set  them  apart 
from  other  students,  it  would  be  their  determination,  their 
dedication,  and  their  spirit  of  competition.  It  took  the 
support  of  many  faculty  members  who  recognized  the 
project  as  a  great  learning  experience.  It  took  alumni  who 
would  respond  to  the  appeal  for  assistance  in  an  exciting 
undertaking  not  only  with  their  checks  but  with  their  time 
and  talents.  It  was  accomplished  because  there  were 
industrial  firms  willing  to  provide  equipment  and  technical 
expertise.  And  finally  there  was  the  WPI  college  administra- 
tion which  said,  "We're  behind  you  students  all  the  way." 

With  this  mighty  team  effort,  how  could  WPI  Clean  Air 
Cars  not  finish  on  top! 


THE  JOURNAL 


WPI  Drivers 

WPI  Propane  Gasser 

Edward   W.    Kaleskas,   '68,   graduate   student,  mechanical 
engineering,  from  Worcester. 

Steven  A.  Hunter,  '69,  graduate  student,  mechanical  engi- 
neering, from  Worcester. 

Edward   C.    Lowe,    III,  senior  in   mechanical   engineering, 
from  Longmeadow,  Mass. 

Faculty  advisor:  Prof.  Roger  R.  Borden,  MS  '61,  mechani- 
cal engineering. 

WPI  Hybrid  Electric  Vehicle 

Steven  A.  Clarke,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 
Ware,  Mass. 

William  R.  Medeiros,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 
N.  Falmouth,  Mass. 

David    Nowack,    junior   in    mechanical    engineering,   from 
Warren,  Mass. 

Norman  W.  Sousa,  Jr.,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering, 
from  West  Hartford,  Conn. 

Chief    engineer:     Kenneth    A.    Maymon,    '70,    mechanical 
engineering,  from  Milford,  N.H. 

Faculty  advisor:  Prof.  Roger  R.  Borden,  MS  '61,  mechani- 
cal engineering. 

WPI  Clean  Air  SAAB 

Robert  G.  Guertin,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 

Trumbull,  Conn. 

Thomas  F.  Mirarchi,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 

Springfield,  Mass. 

John  J.  Luikey,  Jr.,  sophomore  in  mechanical  engineering, 

from  Worcester. 


Miss  Nancy  E.  Wood,  sophomore  in  mechanical  engineering, 

from  Gardner,  Mass. 

Faculty    advisor:    Prof.   John    A.    Mayer,   Jr.,    mechanical 

engineering. 

WPI  Dark  Horse 

Walter   V.   Thompson,   senior    in    mechanical   engineering, 
from  Mt.  Vernon,  N.H. 

Edmund  T.  Curtis,  senior  in  civil  engineering,  from  Clinton, 
Conn. 

Frank   A.    Rogers,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 
Medfield,  Mass. 

Staff  Advisor:  F.  Douglas  McKeown,  '41,  University  Rela- 
tions Dept. 
Alumnus  Advisor:  William  G.  Mears,  '53. 

WPI  Great  Teakettle 

Allen    H.    Downs,   senior    in    electrical    engineering,   from 

Needham,  Mass. 

John     R.    Pratt,    senior    in    chemical    engineering,    from 

Plymouth,  Conn. 

Michael  A.  Turek,  senior  in  mechanical  engineering,  from 

Farmington,  Conn. 

Thomas    J.   Werb,   senior   in    electrical    engineering,   from 

Warwick,  R.I. 

Faculty   Advisors:    Prof.    Donald    N.    Zwiep,   head   of  the 

department  of  mechanical  engineering  and  Prof.  Fred  N. 

Webster,  '39,  mechanical  engineering. 


Contributors  to  the 
Clean  Air  Car  Project 

The  fo  llo  wing  b  usin  ess  firms  ma  de 
major  contributions  in  terms  of  equipment, 
technical  assistance  or  financial  grants 
toward  the  success  of  the  project.  Their 
support  is  acknowledged  with  gratitude. 

American  Bosch  Marketing  Division, 

Springfield,  Mass. 

American  Motors  Corp.    Detroit,  Mich. 

Ashcroft  Gauges,  Stratford,  Conn. 

Austin  Hastings  Co.,  Woburn,  Mass. 

Bendix  Mosaic  Fabrics  Division, 

Sturbridge,  Mass. 

Mr.  Fred  Blankenship,  Boxboro,  Mass. 

Bundy  Corporation,  Detroit,  Mich. 

Chaffms  Garage,  Holden,  Mass. 

David  Clark  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Coghlin  Electric  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Ebcor,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Electric  Storage  Battery,  Exide  Div., 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Engelhard  Industries,  Newark,  N.J. 

Esso  Research  and  Engineering  Co.,  Linden,  N.J. 

Farris  Engineering  Corp.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J. 

Fram  Corp.,  Providence,  R.I. 

Gannon  Chevrolet/Olds,  Westboro,  Mass. 


General  Electric  Co. 

Direct  Current  and  Motor  Generator 

Dept.,  Erie,  Pa. 

Instruments  Dept.,  West  Lynn,  Mass. 

Industry  Control  Dept.,  Salem,  Va. 

Small  AC  Motor  and  Generator  Dept., 

Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Small  Turbine  Dept.,  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Semiconductor  Products  Dept.,  Auburn,  N.Y. 
General  Motors  Corp.,  Detroit,  Mich. 
General  Motors  Corp.,  Assembly  Div., 
Framingham,  Mass. 
General  Tire  Co.,  Akron,  Ohio 
Goodyear  Tire  and  Rubber  Co.,  Detroit,  Mich. 
Harr  Motor  Co.  and  Auto  Rental  Corp., 
Worcester,  Mass. 
Industrial  Stainless  Steel,  Inc., 
Cambridge,  Mass. 
Jeep  Corp.,  Toledo,  Ohio 

Kiekhaefer-Mercury  Corp.,  Fond-Du-Lac,  Wise. 
Kiekhaefer-Mercury  Corp.,  Auburn,  Mass. 
Lahti's  Fix-It  Shop,  Leominster,  Mass. 
Lindco,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Masoneilan  International,  Inc.,  Norwood,  Mass. 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 
Mechanics  National  Bank,  Worcester,  Mass. 
Miller  Electrical  Manufacturing  Co., 
Appleton,  Wise. 


Motorola,  Inc.,  Franklin  Park,  III. 

Motor  Wheel  Corp.,  Lansing,  Mich. 

New  Holland  Div.,  Sperry  Rand  Corp., 

New  Holland,  Pa. 

Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Radio  Shack,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Rolled  Alloys,  Inc.,  South  River,  N.J. 

SAAB-USA,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Scott  Research  Laboratories,  Plumsteadville,  Pa. 

Sure  Oil  and  Chemical  Corp.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

C.  E.  Streeter  and  Sons,  Rochdale,  Mass. 

Sylvania  Electric  Co. 

Texaco  Research  Laboratories,  Beacon,  N.Y. 

Tolland  Machine  Co.,  Tolland,  Conn. 

United  Chevrolet,  Inc.   Worcester,  Mass. 

Walker  Manufacturing  Co.,  Div.  of  Tenneco 

O.  S.  Walker  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Woodward  Governor  Co.,  Rockford,  III. 

Worcester  Boys  Trade  High  School, 

Worcester,  Mass. 

Worcester  Dodge,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Worcester  Gas  Light  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Wyman-Gordon  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

WPI  also  acknowledges  with  gratitude 
the  contributions  of  hundreds  of  students, 
alumni,  faculty,  staff  and  friends  every- 
where. 


HE  JOURNAL 


%mm 


Above  —  Sfei-e  Hunter  '69,  and  Ed  Lowe  discuss  the 
Propane  Gasser's  performance  with  visitors  during  a 
Pasadena  public  showing  of  the  Clean  Air  Cars. 

Below  —  The  Gremlin  suffering  from  mechanical 
problems  in  the  California  desert. 


California  alumni  greeting  WPI  drivers  at  the  finish  line 
included  Ed  Delano,  '30,  and  Richard  Walberg,  '23.  In  June, 
Delano  made  his  personal  contribution  to  reduce  air 
pollution  by  bicycling  3200  miles  to  his  40th  reunion. 


"SSsfcS&fe^; 


Below  —  The  driving  crews  in  Pasadena. 


Gov.  Sargent  accepting  a  stuffed  crow  from  WPI  students  for 
his  rash  prediction  that  MIT  would  sweep  the  race. 


THE  JOURNAI) 


AN    INTERVIEW   WITH 


Q.  You  were  selected  to  be  the  eleventh  president  of 
WPI  by  a  committee  made  up  of  trustees,  faculty,  adminis- 
tration, and  students.  You  noted  in  your  first  interview, 
following  your  election,  that  in  the  coming  decade  higher 
education  will  involve  the  participation  of  students  and 
faculty  to  a  much  greater  degree;  furthermore,  that  at 
Worcester,  we  have  already  seen  evidences  of  this.  Looking 
back  on  your  first  year  at  WPI,  do  you  feel  that  this 
involvement  and  participation  which  you  envisioned  a  year 
ago  has  come  true? 

A.  I  think  events  all  across  the  country  have  indicated 
the  necessity  for  increased  participation  in  university  affairs 
by  students  and  faculty,  especially  responsible  participa- 
tion. Where  that  has  occurred,  as  at  WPI,  concerns  and 
problems  have  been  worked  out  peacefully  and  success- 
fully. 

One  evidence  of  this  participation  that  I  saw  before  I 
came  to  WPI  was  the  faculty  planning  committee.  Its 
procedures  certainly  were  an  excellent  model  for  involving 
faculty,  students,  alumni,  trustees,  and  administration  in 
development  of  common  goals  and  objectives.  That  this  was 
successful  is  evidenced  by  the  tremendous  acceptance  we 
are  having  all  around  the  country  of  the  WPI  PLAN. 

Another  example  is  the  composition  of  the  various 
faculty  committees  operating  within  the  new  faculty 
structure.  In  all  cases  where  student  interests  are  involved 
the  faculty  has  invited  student  participation,  and  the 
student  body  has  selected  representatives  as  requested.  The 
same  is  true  for  the  trustee  committee  on  Academic  Policy 
and  Student  Affairs,  which  now  consists  of  four  trustees, 
four  faculty,  and  six  students.  I  hope  that  in  these  typical 
ways  we  will  enable  all  groups  on  campus  to  feel  that  they 
have  an  effective  voice  in  the  development  and  operation  of 
the  college.  I  would  definitely  say  that  the  involvement  I 
saw  as  necessary  a  year  ago  has  come  true. 

Q.  The  events  of  last  spring,  following  the  Kent  State 
incident  and  the  Cambodia  conflict,  saw  extensive  problems 
and  destruction  on  many  campuses  around  the  country.  At 
WPI,  we  experienced  a  relatively  calm  ending  to  the  year's 
work.  To  what  do  you  attribute  this? 

A.  I  think  the  events  of  last  spring  as  they  existed  here 
at  WPI  were  well  described  in  a  letter  I  sent  out  at  that 
time.  1  was  tremendously  pleased  at  the  way  things 
developed  on  this  campus  because  the  resolution  of 
problems  was  a  reasoned  one.  That  is  not  to  say  that  there 
were  not  long  hours  of  discussion  among  all  of  us  but  it  was 
discussion  and  not  violent  action.  The  responsible  behavior 


and  attitudes  of  students  -and  faculty  alike  made  this 
possible.  To  my  mind  our  students  acted  in  a  most  adult 
manner  so  that  they  and  the  faculty  were  strong  partners  in 
effective  and  positive  action  to  maintain  the  campus  on 
course. 

There  has  been  much  talk  about  communication  among 
these  various  groups.  Communication  is  fine  and  we  have  it, 
but  I  think  there  is  one  other  important  ingredient.  This  is 
responsive  action  where  action  is  clearly  needed.  It  does  no 
good  to  listen  if  listening  is  just  a  means  of  foot  dragging, 
and  I  think  we  have  responded  conscientiously  but  care- 
fully to  definitely  expressed  needs. 

Q.  You  have  been  quoted  assaying,  "Worcester should 
be  thought  of  as  a  place  of  intellectual  accomplishment.  " 
The  Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher  Education,  Incorpo- 
rated, just  completed  its  second  full  year  of  operation.  Do 
you  picture  this  as  either  a  currently  dominant  force  or  a 
dominant  force  in  the  future  in  terms  of  education  in  the 
greater  Worcester  area? 

A.  I  believe  that  WPI  should  be  thought  of  as  a  place  of 
intellectual  accomplishment  as  indeed  it  is.  At  the  same 
time  we  do  not  ever  attempt  to  cover  all  the  fields  of 
intellectual  endeavor,  and  thus  the  Worcester  Consortium 
allows  all  of  us  to  recognize  intellectual  accomplishment  in 
other  areas  than  our  own  specialties.  The  very  diversity  of 
our  student  bodies  and  faculties  increases  this  opportunity 
enormously  and  will  enable  all  of  us  to  gain.  We  will  gain 
particularly  in  the  opportunity  for  specialization,  but  we 
will  also  gain  in  the  opportunity  for  students  to  have  a 
much  broader  spectrum  of  intellectual  opportunity.  To  me 
the  Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher  Education  will  play  a 
very  significant  role  in  any  future  success  of  WPI. 

Q.  In  the  past  year,  you  have  frequently  mentioned  the 
"Technological  Humanist",  and  the  past  year  has  seen  WPI 
adopt  the  WPI  PLAN.  Do  you  feel  that  the  WPI  PLAN  will 
create  the  so-called  "Technological  Humanist"? 

A.  I  guess  "Technological  Humanist"  is  sort  of  a 
Hazzard  trademark  by  now.  I  still  think  it's  a  nice 
trademark  to  have  because  it  represents  the  kind  of  person 
who  uses  his  excellent  education  to  improve  the  life  of  all 
of  us.  The  WPI  PLAN  will  require  each  graduating  student 
to  have  done  something  that  relates  his  discipline  to  society 
as  a  whole.  Some  relations  may  be  tenuous  indeed,  but  they 
still  will  require  the  student  to  think  in  different  ways 
about  his  discipline  than  we  have  asked  him  to  think  in  the 
past.  These  ways  of  thinking  are  what  society  is  now 
requesting  from   governmental   and   business  leaders.  With 


E JOURNAL 


the  education  resulting  from  theWPI  PLAN,  WPI  graduates 
will  be  more  than  ready  to  assume  leadership  roles.  They 
will  indeed  be  technological  humanists. 

Q.  Is  the  WPI  PLAN  all  that  you  hoped  it  would  be  in 
terms  of  an  innovative  and  attractive  educational  program? 

A.  It's  very  hard  to  say  that  anything  is  "all  that  you 
hoped  it  would  be."  In  fact,  I'm  not  quite  sure  what  I 
hoped  the  WPI  PLAN  would  be.  But  I  do  think  it  is  superb 
at  doing  two  things. 

First  of  all,  it  takes  us  back  to  our  early  history  in  the 
coupling  of  theory  and  practice  into  an  educational 
program.  So  it  draws  on  the  very  best  of  the  WPI  historical 
tradition  demanding  high  quality  performance  from  its 
faculty  and  its  students. 

But  secondly,  it  looks  into  the  future  and  attempts  to 
answer  the  problem  of  more  efficient,  and  at  the  same  time, 
effective  education  for  each  individual.  The  combination  of 
such  things  as  internship  centers,  study  groups,  self-teaching 
through  technological  aids  and  the  like  all  ask  a  great  deal 
of  individual  responsibility  from  each  student,  but  at  the 
same  time  they  will  enable  each  student  to  learn  a  great 
deal  more,  probably  at  less  cost  to  the  institution  than  ever 
before.  And  this  new  combination  of  ways  of  doing  things 
will  certainly  force  each  of  us  to  rethink  our  present 
teaching  practices  with  a  view  to  better  accomplishment  of 
the  objectives  we  each  have  for  ourselves  in  teaching,  in 
research,  in  administration,  in  whatever  job  each  of  us  uses 
to  contribute  to  WPI. 

Q.  Have  you  been  encouraged  by  the  response  of 
industry,  alumni,  students,  and  other  organizations  to  the 
WPI  PLAN? 

A.  I  must  say  that  the  response  of  outsiders  has  been 
fantastically  favorable.  The  same  is  true  of  most  of  our 
alumni  and  students.  I  think  it  is  clear  to  all  of  them  that 
we  have  a  great  desire  to  maintain  a  very  high  level  of 
performance  but  that  measuring  that  performance  is  to  be 
accomplished  in  the  combining  of  many  new  and  old 
methods  in  a  unique  way.  Certainly  this  response  should  be 
most  helpful  as  we  go  to  corporations  and  foundations  for 
financial  support  in  the  future. 

Q.  What  do  you  picture  as  the  size  of  the  school  ten 
years  from  now?  What  does  this  size  mean  in  terms  of 
implementation  of  the  WPI  PLAN  and  new  buildings  on 
campus? 

A.  I  find  it  hard  to  visualize  very  much  growth  in  our 
student  population,  although  the  success  of  the  WPI  PLAN 
might  have  a  significant  effect  on  that.  In  general,  it  is  my 
view  that  we  should  stay  small  to  retain  the  close  personal 
interactions  that  we've  always  had.  Most  of  the  problems  of 
the  campuses  have  come  from  those  that  have  many  tens  of 
thousands  of  students  in  residence.  The  values  we  are  trying 
to  achieve  are  best  reached  by  retaining  our  small  campus. 
To  this  end  I  could  see  us  reaching  a  level  of  two  thousand 


undergraduate  students  in  another  two  or  three  years,  but 
after  that  I  would  see  no  significant  increase  except  perhaps 
to  maintain  the  same  rate  of  growth  as  the  18-to-21  -year- 
old  population  group. 

This  does  not  mean,  however,  that  we  have  no  need  for 
new  buildings.  We  have  a  very  great  need  for  a  college 
center,  and  we  have  a  considerable  need  for  student 
housing,  both  undergraduate  and  graduate.  At  the  same 
time,  some  of  our  older  buildings  need  considerable 
renovation  or  even  replacement.  All  of  these  needs  are 
currently  under  study  and  we're  attempting  to  formulate 
ways  of  using  existing  facilities  most  effectively  before  we 
come  to  any  conclusions  about  the  need  for  additional 
buildings. 

Q.  The  past  year  has  seen  the  administrative  reorganiza- 
tion of  the  Alumni  Association  implemented,  with  a  much 
closer  working  relationship  now  existing  between  the 
alumni  body  and  the  college.  Along  these  lines,  what  do 
you  feel  the  role  can  and  should  be  for  alumni  in  the  future 
of  WPI? 

A.  The  much  closer  relationship  between  the  Alumni 
Association  and  the  college  re-emphasizes  the  responsi- 
bilities of  both  groups.  By  coupling  them  more  closely 
together  each  is  likely  to  be  more  responsive  to  needs 
expressed  by  the  other.  I  also  hope  that  the  information 
flow  from  the  college  to  the  Alumni  Association  represents 
a  typical  response  coming  from  this  close  association. 

We  have  so  many  areas  of  concern  in  maintaining  WPI 
as  a  significant  institution  that  the  opportunities  for  alumni 
participation  seem  to  me  almost  limitless.  In  fact,  I  think 
we  have  to  be  careful  not  to  overwork  helpful  individuals 
and  draw  into  participation  those  who  have  never  before 
had  an  opportunity.  I  think  especially  of  the  very  successful 
secondary  school  admissions  program  where  many,  many 
alumni  have  contributed  lots  of  hours  and  much  effort 
toward  the  goal  of  attracting  really  capable  students  to  the 
college.  Now  with  the  WPI  PLAN  we  shall  be  looking  to 
many  alumni  to  help  us  find  "internship  centers"  where 
students  can  learn  about  real  life  problems  first  hand.  Or 
there  is  the  problem  of  interpreting  and  understanding 
events  on  college  campuses,  especially  to  state  and  federal 
legislators.  Every  alumnus  who  makes  the  effort  to  under- 
stand and  then  passes  that  understanding  on  to  others  does 
a  service  of  inestimable  value  to  the  college.  And,  of  course, 
there  is  no  question  that  active  participation  of  alumni  in 
all  kinds  of  fund-raising  efforts  is  of  major  importance  to 
us.  The  more  information  we  have  about  sources  of  funds 
that  we  ourselves  can  go  after,  and  the  more  often  we  get 
alumni  contributions,  the  better  off  the  college  will  be. 

Q.  What  are  your  thoughts  concerning  fraternities  and 
their  future  on  our  campus? 

A.  Fraternities  over  the  last  decade  have  certainly 
changed  their  role  in  campus  life.  I  think  on  most  campuses 


10 


THE  JOURNA 


they  have  ceased  to  be  the  most  elite  and  discriminatory 
institutions  and  have  moved  very  strongly  toward  being  a 
group  of  people  living  together  because  they  like  each 
other.  In  addition,  most  of  our  fraternities  have  shown 
strong  concern  with  regard  to  social  problems  and  have 
spearheaded  volunteer  efforts  in  the  city.  Their  very 
constructive  efforts  for  WPI  and  their  living  environment 
both  seem  well  matched  to  present  student  interests.  Thus, 
I  hope  that  we  can  find  ways  to  help  them  continue. 

At  present  several  have  serious  financial  problems 
because  of  the  city  tax  structure.  The  college  is  working 
with  these  fraternities  and  with  the  city  to  determine  how 
best  to  solve  the  problem,  but  at  present  we  don't  have  a 
firm  solution. 

Q.  What  is  your  position  regarding  athletics  at  WPI?  Do 
you  favor  the  current  status  of  varsity  athletics  or  would 
you  hope  to  see  some  changes  in  this  problem? 

A.  Athletics  at  WPI  have  always  been  handled  in  a  way 
that  seems  to  match  well  with  our  academic  program.  That 
is,  we  do  not  give  special  support  to  students  just  because 
they  are  athletes.  This  is  in  marked  contrast  to  many  other 
institutions,  as  everybody  knows. 

I  think  what  we're  looking  for  is  the  provision  of 
opportunities  for  those  of  our  students  who  are  interested 
in  athletics  to  participate  in  well-prepared  teams  who 
compete  with  teams  of  other  institutions  more  or  less  of 
the  same  caliber.  This  certainly  gives  a  chance  for  accom- 
plishment, for  development  of  the  understanding  of  team 
participation,  and,  in  many  cases,  the  kinds  of  satisfaction 
that  come  from  superior  performance. 

I'm  particularly  delighted  with  the  physical  education 
department's  program  in  lifetime  sports  and  in  their 
development  of  intramural  sports  programs.  All  of  us 
recognize  the  value  of  having  a  sound  health  basis  from 
which  to  operate  in  the  intellectual  activity  that  is  our 
prime  purpose.  All  of  these  things  seem  to  contribute 
significantly  to  that. 

Q.  How  many  co-eds  and  how  many  black  students  do 
you  anticipate  being  on  campus  in  ten  years? 

A.  We  are  delighted  to  have  an  increasing  representa- 
tion from  both  groups  on  the  campus  and  are  particularly 
pleased  if  some  of  the  black  students  turn  out  to  be 
outstanding  contributors  to  our  athletic  activities.  But  in 
both  cases  we  are  interested  in  women  students  and  black 
students  as  people  who  deserve  and  want  the  kind  of 
education  that  WPI  can  provide.  We  have  no  quotas,  and 
within  the  limits  of  our  financial  resources  encourage  all 
those  whom  we  think  can  benefit  from  our  educational 
program  to  apply  and  attend.  Thus,  the  total  number  of 
either  women  or  black  students  on  our  campus  will  depend 
on  the  interest  they  express  and  the  effectiveness  of  our 
continuing  encouragement  for  them  to  attend.  On  the  basis 
of  our  present  experience,  it  does  look  as  if  we  might  end 
up  with  perhaps  100  to  200  women  and  40  to  100  black 


students.  These  numbers  are  extrapolations  of  the  present 
rate  at  which  these  groups  seem  to  come  to  our  campus. 

Q.  We  have  heard  you  mention  topics  of  communica- 
tion and  working  together  frequently  during  the  past  year. 
Do  you  feel  that  communication  and  cooperation  between 
the  administration  and  the  student  body  is  adequate  and  do 
you  feel  that  communication  between  the  college  and  the 
alumni  body  is  adequate  at  the  present  time?  If  not,  what 
areas  or  methods  of  improvement  do  you  foresee  in  the 
future? 

A.  I  do  indeed  feel  that  communication  and  coopera- 
tion between  the  administration  and  study  body  is 
adequate.  That  is  not  to  say  that  either  group  is  perfect  in 
communicating  or  cooperating,  but  that  the  spirit  of 
cooperation  is  indeed  there.  We  have  the  mechanisms  for 
responding  to  each  other.  We  have  the  desire  to  see  the 
college  improve  through  mutual  efforts  and  I  think  we  have 
seen  many  additional  lines  of  communication  and  coopera- 
tion open  up  through  this  past  year. 

I  think  the  same  is  true  with  regard  to  the  Alumni 
Association,  as  I  commented  in  response  to  an  early 
question.  There  again,  we're  not  perfect  but  we  have  the 
desire  and  with  proper  interest  and  interpretation  of  that 
interest  by  alumni  we  shall  be  able  to  respond  with  more 
avenues  of  communication  than  we  had  before. 

Q.  In  summary,  was  your  first  year  at  WPI  what  you 
expected?  Would  you  care  to  comment  briefly  on  what  you 
feel  future  years  at  WPI  involve? 

A.  In  general,  I  would  say  that  my  first  year  at  WPI  was 
about  what  I  expected.  One  can  never  predict  in  detail  what 
will  happen  in  a  given  academic  year  at  a  college.  Things 
like  Kent  State  and  Cambodia  are  certainly  unique  and  not 
predictable.  But  I  do  feel  that  the  WPI  PLAN,  the 
administrative  reorganization  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
the  growth  of  faculty  and  student  participation  in  academic 
and  student  affairs,  and  the  increasing  attention  that  WPI  is 
receiving  in  the  national  press,  are  all  different  facets  of  the 
same  theme.  That  theme  to  me  is,  basically,  participation 
and  performance  at  WPI.  I  feel  that  we  can  only  attain  the 
kind  of  performance  both  in  quality  and  intensity  that  has 
been  characteristic  of  our  past  if  we  do  have  participation 
by  all  concerned.  It  has  been  my  objective  to  see  that 
participation  grow  and  I  think  we  have  succeeded  in  some 
reasonable  measure  during  this  past  year.  If  we  can  carry 
this  along,  keep  up  our  momentum,  find  the  public  and 
private  support  that  we  need,  then  I  see  the  future  years  at 
WPI  as  successful  ones.  They'll  be  years  that  see  the  results 
of  our  college  efforts  reflecting  increased  respect  and 
appreciation  on  all  of  our  past  graduates,  on  our  trustees, 
and  on  our  faculty.  By  staying  as  a  relatively  small,  high 
quality,  technologically-oriented  institution,  I  think  we  will 
be  able  to  provide  a  unique  kind  of  education  for  students 
from  all  walks  of  life,  and  we  will  create  people  who  will 
constructively  change  and  improve  this  country. 


11 


ANNUAL  REPORT  ISSUED 

For  the  first  time,  the  college  has 
issued  an  annual  report.  Released  in 
October,  the  report  not  only  includes 
a  financial  report  for  the  1969-70 
year,  but  also  a  report  from  the 
President,  highlights  of  the  WPI  PLAN, 
and  highlights  of  the  year. 

The  following  are  excerpts  from 
the  Treasurer's  Report: 

Total  expenditures  and  transfers 
during  1969-70  rose  to  a  record 
$9,747,686  —  an  increase  of 
$1,084,253  over  the  previous  year's 
total  of  $8,663,433.  In  part,  this 
increase  is  caused  by  innovations  in, 
and  future  planning  of,  academic  pro- 
grams, the  addition  of  personnel  and 
institutional  planning  activities,  and 
inflation.  These  costs,  many  once  only 
in  nature,  were  not  reflected  in  a  less 
sophisticated  past.  The  activities  they 
support  will  be  a  distinct  advantage  for 
the  future. 

A  sizable  expenditure  occurring 
for  the  first  time  in  1969-70  was  the 
funding  of  student  financial  aid  from 
operating  revenues  and  reserves,  a 
basic  requirement  if  WPI  is  to  serve  the 
typical  technically  oriented  student.  In 
previous  years,  this  aid  was  funded 
entirely  from  endowed  and  grant 
revenues.  The  expenditure  for  student 
financial  aid  in  1969-70  exceeded 
revenues  by  S1 64,000. 

Student  financial  aid  in  the  form 
of  scholarships,  opportunity  grants, 
and    loans    is    represented    as   an   ex- 


panding part  of  operations.  Awards 
totaled  $776,275  to  568  under- 
graduate students  —  an  increase  of 
$208,050  over  the  previous  year. 

Total  revenues  during  1969-70  also 
rose  to  a  record  of  $9,349,679  —  an 
increase  of  $904,124  over  the  previous 
year's  total  of  $8,445,555.  Continuing 
gaps  between  increased  expenditures 
($1,046,865)  and  increased  revenues 
($904,124)  led  to  the  1969-70  deficit 
of  $398,007.  The  ways  and  means  of 
meeting  the  external  and  internal 
forces  causing  deficits  are  being 
defined  and  implemented.  The  new 
WPI  PLAN  should  be  a  giant  step  in 
the  right  direction. 

In  addition  to  tuition  and  fees, 
grants  and  bequests  are  important 
sources  of  revenue  affecting  opera- 
tions. During  1969-70,  WPI  received 
$2,068,781  from  private  and  govern- 
ment sources  —  compared  with 
$3,706,991  the  previous  year.  (In 
1968-69,  an  unrestricted  bequest  of 
$2,262,000  was  added  to  funds 
functioning  as  endowment.) 

While  $845,661  was  received  in 
the  form  of  bequests  and  added  to 
endowment,  and  $1,092,073  was 
designated  for  necessary  academic 
research  equipment,  special  programs 
and  student  financial  aid,  only 
$131,047  was  received  in  the  form  of 
current  unrestricted  gifts. 

In  summary,  the  first  public 
financial  statement  for  WPI  cannot  be 
called  bleak.  In  spite  of  an  operating 


deficit,  the  excitement  and  challenge 
of  a  recharged  academic  plan  coupled 
with  increased  revenue  support  and 
the  foundations  of  realistic  and 
prudent  financial  planning  will  make 
possible  the  return  of  balanced 
budgets. 

HOMECOMING  1970 

Homecoming  Weekend  once  again 
proved  to  be  a  huge  success  and  one  of 
the  most  popular  events  of  the  year. 
With  the  best  weather  in  recent  years, 
a  large  turn-out  of  alumni  enjoyed  a 
variety  of  events. 

Among  the  usual  events  were 
home  soccer  and  football  games,  a 
barbecue  on  the  baseball  field,  the 
tailgate  picnic,  and  fraternity  displays. 
Some  5,000  people  were  in  attendance 
as  WPI  defeated  the  Coast  Guard 
Academy  in  one  of  the  best  football 
games  played  by  WPI  in  recent 
memory. 

The  tailgate  picnic  award  was  once 
again  won  by  Jim  Donahue,  '44,  and 
Carl  Backstrom,  '30,  as  they  "out- 
performed" the  rest  of  the  field.  The 
Homecoming  display  award  was  won 
by  Tau  Kappa  Epsilon  with  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  and  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  the  runners-up. 

The  Worcester  County  alumni 
chapter  sponsored  a  Happy  Hour 
following  the  football  game.  It  was 
held  in  the  Music  Room  in  Alden 
Memorial  and  was  extremely  well 
received  by  the  over  200  people  who 


THE  JOURNAL 


attended.  It  was  a  first-time  event  in 
the  schedule  of  activities  for  the  week- 
end, and  it  appears  to  have  won  a 
permanent  position  on  the  schedule. 

GRANT  RECEIVED 

United  States  Steel  Foundation 
recently  announced  the  awarding  of  a 
$21,000  grant  to  WPI.  It  was  a  portion 
of  $33,800  awarded  to  six  central  New 
England  colleges  by  the  foundation.  A 
statement  accompanying  the  award 
called  on  Americans  of  all  ages  "to 
help  bridge  the  so-called  generation 
gap."  The  grant  was  comprised  of 
$1,000  as  an  operating  grant  and 
$20,000  for  capital  needs  which  will 
be  used  to  buy  equipment  for  the 
study  of  properties  of  materials. 

FACULTY 

The  full-time  faculty  at  WPI  now 
numbers  167.  In  addition,  there  are  17 
part-time  faculty  members  and  8  on 
the  ROTC  staff.  There  are  22  new 
full-time  faculty  members  this  year, 
but  many  of  these  are  full-time 
members  who  have  replaced  part-time 
members. 

STODDARD  RESIDENCE  CENTER 
DEDICATED 

Stoddard  Residence  Center,  three 
units  housing  60  students  each  and 
located  on  Institute  Road  between 
Einhorn  Road  and  Hackfeld  Road,  was 
dedicated  in  ceremonies  on  Home- 
coming Day.  Among  those  partici- 
pating in  the  ceremonies  were  Dr. 
George  W.  Hazzard;  Robert  W. 
Stoddard,  Chairman  of  the  Board  of 
Wyman-Gordon  Co.  and  a  life  trustee 
of  WPI;  Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53, 
of  F.  W.  Madigan  Co.,  Inc.,  the  general 
contractors;  and  Dr.  William  E. 
Hanson,  '32,  Chairman  of  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees. 

Each  of  the  three  buildings  in  the 
complex  includes  a  central  lounge  area 
which  opens  onto  a  central  outdoor 
patio  area.  One  unit  contains  the 
college's  first  infirmary,  a  seven-bed 
unit,  and  the  same  unit  also  contains 
an  apartment  for  the  resident  manager 
of  dormitories.  All  three  buildings  are 
heated  electrically. 


The  winning  tailgate  picnic  area. 


Stoddard  Residence  Center  is  dedicated. 


THE  JOURNAL 


13 


ENROLLMENT 

With  a  freshman  class  of  545,  25 
of  whom  are  co-eds  and  nine  of  whom 
are  blacks,  the  total  undergraduate 
enrollment  now  totals  1,806.  This 
total  includes  49  co-eds  and  18  black 
students.  Also  enrolled  on  campus  are 
248  full-time  graduate  students. 

The  entering  class  of  545  students 
almost  exactly  matches  the  goal  estab- 
lished a  year  ago  for  the  size  of  the 
class,  550  students.  The  size  of  the 
class  reflects  the  anticipated  size  of 
future  entering  classes  as  the  college 
moves  toward  an  enrollment  goal  of 
2,000  undergraduates  and  500  gradu- 
ate students. 

Enrollment      (including     graduate 
students)      in     the     various     degree- 
granting  departments  is  as  follows: 
Biomedical  Engineering  13 

Business  9 

Computer  Science  68 

Chemical  Engineering  156 

Chemistry  105 

Civil  Engineering  214 

Electrical  Engineering  302 

Management  Engineering  90 

Mathematics  104 

Mechanical  Engineering  338 

Physics  71 

Miscellaneous  35 

Non-departmental  549 


SPECTRUM  1970-71 

The  student  social  committee, 
under  the  chairmanship  of  Donald  I. 
Baron,  '71,  of  Mattapan,  Mass.,  and 
with  the  cooperation  of  Mrs.  Jennifer 
Weininger,  wife  of  WPI  Professor 
Stephen  J.  Weininger,  is  sponsoring  a 
program  titled  "Spectrum  1970-71" 
for  the  WPI  community  and  the 
general  public.  In  its  inaugural  year,  it 
has  received  strong  support  and  has 
attracted  good  attendance.  Groups 
having  already  appeared  include: 

Y.  G.  Srimati.  Culture  of  India 
through  painting,  music,  and  dance. 

St.  Louis  String  Quartet.  Chamber 
music. 


Guy  Carawan.  American  folk  music. 
Connecticut-Wesley  an      Experimental 
Movement  Lab.  Modern  dance. 

Groups  which  will  be  appearing 
through  the  remainder  of  the  year 
include: 

Dec.  9.  Merle  Harbach  Presents  An 
Evening  with  Harold  Pinter.  The  world 
of  contemporary  dramatist  Harold 
Pinter  as  interpreted  by  actor  Merle 
Harbach. 

Feb.  14.  Miguel  Rubio.  Spanish 
guitar. 

Feb.  21.  Pacific  Repertory  Com- 
pany. Two  plays  by  Eugene  lonesco  — 
"The  Chair"  and  "The  Lesson". 

March  28.  The  Players'  Theatre. 
Stephen  Vincent  Benet's  "The  Devil 
and  Daniel  Webster". 

April  16.  MIT  Symphony  Orches- 
tra. Student  ensemble. 

May  4.  Merle  Harbach  Presents  An 
Evening  with  John  Donne.  Merle  Har- 
bach returns  for  an  interpretation  of 
17th  century  poet-divine,  John  Donne. 


OFFICE  OF  CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 

Prof.  Robert  J.  Hall  has  been 
named  director  of  the  newly- 
established  Office  of  Continuing 
Education.  A  member  of  the  WPI 
faculty  since  1956,  Bob  has  been 
associated  with  the  departments  of 
mechanical  engineering  and  manage- 
ment. He  has  already  assumed  his  new 
duties  on  a  part-time  basis  and  will  be 
on  a  full-time  basis  beginning  February 
1,  1971. 

President  Hazzard  said,  "WPI  is 
committed  to  an  educational  philoso- 
phy that  recognizes  the  ability  to  learn 
as  well  as  learning;  that  treats  four 
years  in  college  as  only  one  part  of  a 
lifelong  learning  process;  and  that 
recognizes  the  advantages  of  a  return 
to  the  classroom  after  experience  in 
the  real  world. 

"With  this  philosophy,  WPI  has  to 
extend  its  role  beyond  the  traditional 
undergraduate  and  graduate  education 
of  young  people  to  similar,  but  rele- 
vant, education  for  older  people.  To 


this  end,  the  college  should  provide  a 
continuing  education  program  in  its 
areas  of  professional  competence,"  he 
concluded. 

The  president  pointed  out  that  the 
increased  administrative  emphasis  on 
continuing  education  will  increase  the 
college  interaction  with  the  com- 
munity and  with  the  proper  emphasis, 
"service  through  education." 

WPI's  Evening  Programs  were 
begun  in  1955  and  this  year  are 
expected  to  have  an  enrollment  in 
excess  of  400.  There  have  been  four 
general  areas  for  this  type  of  educa- 
tion. They  are  the  opportunities  for 
part-time  study  leading  to  the  bachelor 
or  master  of  science  degrees  and 
several  professional  non-credit  courses 
in  varying  fields  of  interest;  off- 
campus  courses  offered  in  cooperation 
with  several  area  industries;  the  In- 
Service  Institute  for  secondary  school 
science  teachers  and  the  School  for 
Industrial  Management. 

Prof.  Hall,  a  graduate  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts,  received  his 
master  of  science  degree  from  Cornell, 
where  he  was  an  instructor  for  two 
years  before  joining  the  WPI  faculty. 
He  has  been  an  associate  professor 
since  1963. 

Some  of  Prof.  Hall's  first  efforts 
will  be  to  determine  the  needs  of  the 
community  for  special  programs,  with 
or  without  credit;  to  establish  relation- 
ships with  other  area  academic  institu- 
tions for  most  effective  and  efficient 
continuing  education  programs;  to 
work  with  the  WPI  deans  to  establish 
credit  and  degree  requirements,  as  well 
as  to  coordinate  these  programs  and  to 
develop  them,  as  well  as  the  policies 
and  staff  for  their  implementation. 


JOSEPH  J.  MIELINSKI,  '63, 
NAMED 
Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  '63,  has  been 
named  by  the  college  to  the  position 
of     administrative     assistant     in     the 
Environmental  Systems         Study 

Program.    He    is    responsible    for   the 
co-ordination    of    the    environmental 


THE  JOURNAL 


systems  studies  program  funded  by  a 
large  grant  announced  recently  by  the 
Sloan  Foundation.  "The  underlying 
thought  in  the  program  is  to  take  an 
engineer  and  to  instill  in  his  discipli- 
nary thinking  a  concern  for  the  envi- 
ronment," says  Mielinski.  "We  hope  to 
inculcate  in  our  engineers  that  it  is 
their  responsibility  to  view  a  project 
from  all  its  practical  aspects,  including 
the  environment." 

The     following     article     explains 
some  of  the  details  of  the  program. 


ENVIRONMENTAL  SYSTEMS 
STUDIES  PROGRAM 

An  exciting  new  program  atWPI  is 
helping  to  pave  the  way  to  the 
implementation  of  the  WPI  PLAN. 

The  Environmental  Systems  Study 
Program  (ESSP),  funded  in  part 
through  a  grant  from  the  Alfred  P. 
Sloan  Foundation,  has  added  a  new 
dimension  to  WPI's  educational 
process.  This  new  project-based  inter- 
disciplinary study  plan,  focusing  on 
environmental  problems  as  the  study 
medium,  will  build  upon  the  extensive 
know-how  representing  both  educa- 
tional and  research  commitments 
throughout  WPI.  The  program 
emphasizes  active  learning  through 
on-site  participation  where  the  student 
can  gain  practical  experience,  realize 
the  value  of  interdisciplinary 
approaches  to  problem-solving,  and 
recognize  the  relevance  of  theoretical 
classroom  learning. 

In  a  cooperative  effort  with  educa- 
tionally-minded industrial  and  govern- 
mental organizations,  undergraduate 
teams  will  address  themselves  to  devel- 
oping solutions  to  real  environmental 
problems  with  particular  attention 
paid  to  the  systems  approach  of 
analysis  and  design. 

Several  interested  alumni  and 
friends  of  WPI  are  assisting  ongoing 
project  development  for  both  the 
ESSP  and  the  WPI  PLAN  with  organi- 
zations such  as  Norton  Co.,  the 
Metropolitan  District  Commission 
(MDC)  in  Boston,  Boston  Edison,  the 
City    of   Worcester,    Dupont,    General 


Electric,  U.S.  Steel,  ESSO,  Union 
Carbide,  and  others.  Project  content 
encompasses  comprehensive  studies 
dealing  with  a  variety  of  existing  air 
and  water  problems,  product  develop- 
ment problems,  and  solid  waste  prob- 
lems. 

Juniors  will  enter  for  the  first  time 
in  February  of  1971,  combine  with  a 
faculty  advisor,  and  prepare  for  the 
internship  study  portion  of  this  con- 
tinuing program.  The  summer  will  be 
spent  on-site  conducting  an  intensive 
investigation  of  the  problem.  The 
student  team  will  return  to  campus  in 
the  fall  and  participate  throughout  the 
senior  year  in  a  project  course  in- 
volving design  development  and  a 
systems  study  of  their  proposal. 

The  creative  aspects  of  education, 
in  particular  the  student's  ingenuity 
and  originality,  will  be  developed  with 
considerable  emphasis  on  the  natural 
interface  of  science  and  technology 
with  the  social  sciences.  The  ESSP  is 
intended  to  develop  in  students  of  all 
disciplines  a  concern  for  the  environ- 
ment and  a  sense  of  responsibility  to 
consider  all  aspects  of  a  problem,  the 
systems  approach,  throughout  their 
career.  This  involves  venturing  beyond 
the  technical  aspects  of  problem- 
solving  to  consideration  for  the  human 
values,  a  sensitivity  for  the  natural 
beauty,  and  the  lives  of  the  people 
surrounding  them. 


INTERNATIONAL  ZEOLITES 
CONFERENCE 

The  second  International  Con- 
ference on  Molecular  Sieve  Zeolites 
was  held  on  the  WPI  campus  during 
the  week  of  September  7.  The  chair- 
man of  the  conference  was  WPI  pro- 
fessor Dr.  Leonard  B.  Sand,  and  over 
300  authorities  from  all  fields  at- 
tended, including  representatives  from 
15  foreign  countries. 

The  conference  studied  the  use 
and  properties  of  molecular  sieve  zeo- 
lites, a  solid  crystalline  material  used 
in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline, 
petroleum  products,  and  detergents;  in 


water  and  air  pollution  control;  and  in 
the  maintenance  of  environmental 
quality  in  spacecraft. 

Included  in  the  more  than  75 
technical  papers  which  were  presented 
were  three  papers  which  were  co- 
authored  by  WPI  undergraduates  and 
which  were  outstanding  examples  of 
the  type  of  project  work  which  will 
develop  as  the  WPI  PLAN  is  imple- 
mented. 


STUDENTS  OFFER  TO  CLEAN  UP 
SALISBURY  POND 

About  45  WPI  students  recently 
volunteered  to  aid  the  city  by  at- 
tempting to  isolate  the  sources  of 
pollutants  entering  Salisbury  Pond. 
The  offer  of  assistance  was  made  to 
the  City  Council  by  student  body 
president  David  W.  Hobill,  '71,  of 
Whitman,  Mass.,  after  the  city  health 
department  decided  the  problem  could 
not  be  investigated  due  to  under- 
staffing  problems.  The  offer  of  assist- 
ance was  enthusiastically  received  by 
the  City  Council  and  has  resulted  in 
much  favorable  publicity  for  WPI 
students. 


TUITION  INCREASES 

WPI  will  increase  tuition  by  $125 
to  $2525  per  year,  effective  in  Sep- 
tember 1971. 

In  making  the  announcement.  Dr. 
Hazzard  said,  "Our  trustees  have 
reluctantly  approved  an  increase  in 
tuition  of  $125  made  necessary  by 
rising  costs,  but  there  is  no  alternative 
if  WPI  is  to  continue  to  provide  a  high 
quality  education." 

He  continued,  "It  must  be  recog- 
nized that  as  is  the  case  with  almost  all 
private  colleges,  WPI's  tuition  charge 
does  not  cover  the  full  cost  of  educa- 
tion for  each  student.  Our  modest 
increase  in  tuition  will  be  supple- 
mented by  increased  giving  from 
alumni,  corporations,  foundations  and 
others  who  believe  in  our  educational 
program." 


SE  JOURNAL 


15 


MM  Gfflffi9 


This  fall  two  of  the  three  sports 
played  during  this  season  —  soccer  and 
cross  country  —  have  enjoyed  one  of 
their  finer  seasons.  Football,  however, 
which  usually  gets  more  news  space, 
has  had  a  somewhat  disappointing 
season. 

FOOTBALL 

In  the  early  fall  when  the  football 
team  returned  to  the  WPI  campus, 
Head  Coach  Mel  Massucco,  starting  his 
fourth  season  at  WPI,  felt  that  if  a  few 
key  positions  could  be  filled  it  would 
be  a  successful  campaign.  A  few  of 
those  positions  were  filled,  but  bigger 
problems  developed  and  the  perennial 
lack  of  depth  made  it  a  long  fall. 

The  season  opened  in  Schenec- 
tady, N.Y.,  against  Union  College, 
with  many  sophomores  dotting  the 
lineup.  Led  by  Co-captain  Mike 
Santora,  '71,  of  Grafton,  Mass.,  the 
Engineers'  spirit  was  great,  but  the 
youthfulness  of  the  team  and  the  fact 
that  it  was  the  first  game  of  the  season 
caused  the  gridmen  to  be  overwhelmed 
37-13. 

The  Engineers  faced  possibly  the 
strongest  Bowdoin  and  Middlebury 
teams  in  recent  years  in  the  next  two 
games  and  lost  both,  but  they  weren't 
without  their  shining  moments.  Don 
St.  Marie,  '71,  of  Putnam,  Conn., 
recorded  the  longest  score  of  the 
season,  returning  a  Bowdoin  punt  53 
yards,  and  WPI  found  a  top  receiver  in 
James  Buell,  '73,  a  local  boy  from 
Worcester's  South  High  School,  who 
scored  two  touchdowns  in  these  two 
games.  Jim,  however,  came  up  with  a 
broken  collarbone  and  was  lost  for  the 
rest  of  the  season  but  will  return  for 
two  more  potentially  big  seasons. 


16 


The  team  "found"  themselves  in 
the  fourth  game  of  the  season  in  a 
home  game  and  recorded  their  first 
victory  of  the  season  against  a  strong 
Bates  College  team.  This  was  certainly 
a  game  to  win,  as  the  1970  Engineers 
were  being  viewed  by  the  1938  and 
1954  undefeated  teams  (see  picture). 
Murray  Glazer,  '72,  from  Brooklyn, 
N.Y.,  was  the  leading  rusher  with  109 
yards  in  28  carries,  and  Steve  Joseph, 
'72,  junior  quarterback  from  Norwell, 
Mass.,  connected  for  12  passes  for  156 
yards. 

After  a  discouraging  loss  to  a 
perennially  strong  Wesleyan  University 
team  in  Middletown,  Conn.,  34-13,  the 
Engineers  roared  back  to  upset  the 
Coast  Guard  Academy  14-6  in  the 
1970  WPI  Homecoming  game  on  a 
beautiful  fall  afternoon.  Scott  Dineen, 
'71,  fullback  from  Levittown,  N.Y., 
enjoyed  the  finest  game  of  his  career, 
gaining  120  yards  in  25  carries,  and 
sophomore  standout  Wayne  Pitts,  '73, 
of  New  Bedford,  Mass.,  gathered  in 
three  passes  and  rushed  for  one  touch- 
down. 

Our  Engineers  then  faced  RPI's 
Engineers  in  a  nose-to-nose  battle  and 
came  out  on  the  losing  end  by  one 
point,  15-14.  With  one  game  left,  the 
gridmen  must  look  to  next  year  and 
the  return  of  many  fine  experienced 
juniors  and  seniors. 

SOCCER 

The  Tech  Booters  (defending  New 
England  Intercollegiate  Soccer  League 
College  Division  champions  and 
holders  of  the  Sampson  Cup)  have  an 
excellent  chance  to  repeat  this  tremen- 
dous accomplishment.  Alan  King, 
Coach  of  the  WPI  Soccer  team  since 


1957,  seems  to  put  together  year  after 
year  the  right  ingredients  to  come  up 
with  an  unbeatable  blend  of  ability 
and  desire  to  give  every  opponent  their 
toughest  game. 

Following  two  easy  victories  (3-1 
over  Hartford  and  2-0  over  crosstown 
rival  Holy  Cross),  the  Booters  traveled 
to  Medford,  Mass.,  to  face  a  highly 
touted  Tufts  University  team.  Jack 
Blaisdell,  '72,  of  E.  Longmeadow, 
Mass.,  brother  of  Ken,  Jr.,  '68,  and  son 
of  Ken,  Sr.,  '40,  led  the  team  and  was 
backed  by  the  fine  goaltending  of  Tom 
Terkanian,  '72, of  Lexington,  Mass.,  as 
the  Engineers  came  out  on  top  3-2.  A 
shutout  of  MIT  followed,  and  then 
B.U.  arrived  at  Worcester  with  several 
big  victories  under  their  belt.  Not  to 
be  awed  by  any  team,  the  WPI  Booters 
went  on  to  humiliate  B.U.  5-1.  Lionel 
Saint-Victor,  '71,  of  Port-au-Prince, 
Haiti,  Co-captain,  Bruce  Kern,  '73,  of 
Florham  Park,  N.J.,  and  Jack  Blaisdell 
once  again  provided  the  offense. 

The  team  met  their  first  and  only 
defeat  of  the  year  before  a  fine  Home- 
coming crowd,  losing  to  the  Coast 
Guard  Academy.  It  was  a  defensive 
game,  actually  controlled  by  the  Engi- 
neers until  the  final  period.  The  Bears 
from  New  London  struck  for  two 
goals  in  the  final  period,  and  WPI  just 
couldn't  find  the  net. 

The  Booters  finished  up  9-1-1  and 
at  press  time  were  waiting  to  hear 
whether  they  will  be  offered  a  bid  to 
compete  in  the  College  Division  New 
England  Championships. 

CROSSCOUNTRY 

The  Harriers  have  enjoyed  one  of 
the  finest  seasons  in  their  history.  One 
of   the   reasons   for  the  fine  season  is 


THE  JOURNA 


certainly  the  depth  of  the  squad.  In 
recent  years,  the  Engineers  have  had 
one  or  two  good  competition  runners, 
while  this  year  it  is  not  uncommon  to 
see  six  or  seven  WPI  names  in  the  top 
15  finishers. 

Co-captain  Mike  Malone,  '72,  of 
Taunton,  Mass.,  has  picked  up  several 
firsts  and  is  the  strong  man  on  the 
team.  Co-captain  Bill  Light,  '71,  of 
Port  Chester,  N.Y.,  and  Andy  Murch, 
'73,  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  although  not 
often  in  the  winners'  circle,  are  con- 
sistent point  scorers  for  the  team.  Rich 
Stockdale,  '73,  of  Putnam,  Conn.,  and 
Mark  Hoyt,  '72,  of  Burlington,  Vt., 
have  continually  improved  since  the 
season's  beginning  and  have  become 
consistent  performers  in  the  late  sea- 
son meets.  We  congratulate  Frank 
Sannella  and  his  team  for  the  fine  9-5 
record. 

UNDEFEATED  FOOTBALL  TEAMS 
HONORED 

WPI's  only  undefeated  football 
teams,  the  teams  of  1938  and  1954, 
were  honored  on  October  10  in  a 
well-arranged  program  sponsored  by 
the  Poly  Club  under  the  leadership  of 
Ted  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56,  President. 

With  the  members  of  both  teams 
together  for  the  first  time  in  many 
years,  they  were  honored  at  halftime 
of  the  Bates-WPI  football  game. 
Festivities  included  the  introduction 
of  the  players  in  attendance  and  a 
recounting  of  the  highlights  of  those 
undefeated  years.  Following  the  game, 
which  saw  WPI's  first  victory  of  the 
1970  season,  the  teams  and  their 
families  attended  a  very  successful 
social  hour  and  dinner  in  Morgan  Hall. 


1970 

FOOTBALL 

WPI 

Opponent 

13 

Union 

37 

15 

Bowdoin 

34 

0 

Middlebury 

46 

19 

Bates 

12 

13 

Wesleyan 

34 

14 

Coast  Guard 

6 

14 

RPI 

15 

7 

Norwich 

40 

SOCCER 

WPI 

Opponen t 

3 

Hartford 

1 

2 

Holy  Cross 

0 

3 

Tufts 

2 

2 

MIT 

0 

5 

B.U. 

1 

7 

Lowell  Tech 

2 

3 

Clark 

3 

4 

Assumption 

0 

2 

Coast  Guard 

3 

3 

U.  Mass. 

2 

6 

A.I.C. 

0 

CROSSCOUNTRY 

WPI 

Opponent 

15 

Assumption 

72 

15 

Clark 

92 

15 

Worcester  State 

65 

48 

MIT 

37 

48 

RPI 

36 

27 

Wesleyan 

29 

47 

Bates 

16 

23 

Tufts 

32 

27 

Brandeis 

30 

20 

Bentley 

43 

51 

Coast  Guard 

57 

51 

Williams 

23 

25 

Amherst 

32 

18 

Trinity 

45 

SOCCER 

TEAM 

CONGRATULATIONS!! 

Soccer  team  selected  to  play  in  the 
NCAA'S  Region  I  University  Division 
Tournament.  Facing  the  nation's 
3rd-ranked  team,  Harvard,  they  lost  in 
the  first  round,  6-0.  First  time  they've 
played  in  the  University  Division. 

Alan  King  named  New  England 
College  Division  Soccer  Coach  of  the 
Year. 

WPI  team  named  top  New  England 
College  Division  Team. 

Jack  Blaisdell,  Lionel  St.  Victor, 
and  Tim  Rooney  named  College 
Division  All-Stars. 


Part  of  the  gathering  as  the  undefeated 
football  teams  were  honored. 


Alan  King, 
Coach  of  the  year 


18 


THE  JOURNAL 


WINTER    ATHLETIC    SCHEDULES 


VARSITY  BASKETBALL 


FRESHMAN  BASKETBALL 


Head  Coach  —  James  Herrion 


December 


Head  Coach  —  Kenneth  J.  Kaufman 


January 


February 


March 


5 

Wesleyan 

9 

Tufts 

12 

Assumption 

15 

Springfield 

29, 

30  JC  Holiday  Festiv 

6 

Bowdoin 

9 

Williams 

29 

Bates 

30 

Colby 

5 

A.I.C. 

10 

Lowell  Tech 

13 

M.I.T. 

16 

Trinity 

20 

Suffolk 

23 

Boston  University 

26 

Coast  Guard 

27 

Clark 

2 

Brandeis 

4 

Amherst 

VARSITY  WRESTLING 


H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

December 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 

January 

A 

7 

30 

p.m. 

February 

A 

8 

00 

p.m. 

A 

8 

15 

p.m. 

A 

2 

30 

p.m. 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

A 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

March 

H 

8 

00 

p.m. 

A 

8 

00 

p.m. 

A 

8 

00 

p.m. 

H 
A 

8 
8 

00 
00 

p.m. 
p.m. 

Head  Coac 

A 

8 

00 

p.m. 

December 
February 

5 

Wesleyan 

9 

Tufts 

12 

Assumption 

15 

Becker  Jr. 

9 

Williams 

5 

A.I.C. 

10 

Lowell  Tech 

13 

M.I.T. 

16 

Trinity 

20 

Suffolk 

23 

Boston  University 

27 

Clark 

2 

Brandeis 

4 

Amherst 

H 
H 
H 
H 
A 
H 
A 
H 
H 
H 
A 
H 
A 
A 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  WRESTLING 


Head  Coach  —  Leonard  Polizzotto 


8 
15 
18 
24 


Wore.  Academy 
M.I.T. 

Lowell  Tech 
U.  of  Mass. 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  SWIMMING 


Head  Coach  —  Leonard  T.  Bowen 


VARSITY  SWIMMING 


Head  Coach  —  Carl  S.  Peterson 


December 


January 
February 


March 


2 

Holy  Cross 

8 

Babson 

12 

Coast  Guard 

9 

Northeastern 

11 

U.  of  Mass. 

20 

Trinity 

23 

Brandeis 

27 

Tufts 

November 

December 

H 

7:30  p.m. 

H 

7:30  p.m. 

January 

H 

3:30  p.m. 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

H 

7:30  p.m. 

February 

A 

2:00  p.m. 

H 

7:30  p.m. 

A 

3:30  p.m. 

11,  12,  13  New  Englands 


28 

M.I.T. 

7 

Worcester  State 

9 

Assumption 

14 

Fitchburg 

16 

Nichols 

6 

St.  Anselms 

11 

Fitchburg 

20 

M.I.T. 

3 

St.  Anselms 

8 

Worcester  State 

10 

Assumption 

17 

Nichols 

24 

Bentley 

6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 
6:00  p.m. 


A 

4:00  p.m 

H 

6:00  p.m 

A 

6:00  p.m 

H 

6:00  p.m 

December 

5 
10 

Brandeis 
Coast  Guard 

H 
A 

2:00  p.m. 
7:00  p.m. 

Head  Coach 

-  Carl  S. 

Peterson 

January 

12 

15 

9 

Tufts,  Boston 

M.I.T. 

Williams 

Univ. 

A 
H 
A 

12:00  noon 
8:00  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

December 

12 
17 

Coast  Guard 
Nichols 

H 
A 

1:30  p.m 
7:30  p.m 

February 

13 
18 
20 
24 
27 

Hartford 
Lowell  Tech 
Holy  Cross 
U.  of  Mass. 
Dartmouth 

H 
A 
H 
H 
H 

2:00  p.m. 
7:30  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 
7:30  p.m. 
2:00  p.m. 

January 
February 

13 
17 
27 

Wore.  Academy 

Clark 

Tufts 

HOCKEY  CLUB 

A 
H 
A 

4:00  p.m 
7:30  p.m 
2:00  p.m 

March 

4,  5,  6 

Tourney  at  Lowell  Tech 

r4        "T"                K'.M      ■'/;,      . 

A 

7:00  p.m. 

H 

6:30  p.m. 

H 

6:30  p.m. 

A 

8:45  p.m. 

H 

8:45  p.m. 

H 

8:45  p.m. 

H 

6:30  p.m. 

A 

7:00  p.m. 

A 

8:30  p.m. 

H 

8:45  p.m. 

H 

8:45  p.m. 

H 

6:30  p.m. 

H 

6:30  p.m. 

HE  JOURNAL 


19 


RESPONSIBILITY  and   RESPONSIVENESS 

by 

Donald  P.  Reutlinger 

Dean  of  Student  Affairs 

(From  a  Presentation  Given  to  Alumni  Leaders  in  September,  1970) 


I  suppose  when  anyone  is  asked  to  invest  their  pride 
and  support  in  some  kind  of  an  operation  they  are  entitled 
to  a  picture  of  the  stability  of  the  operation,  so  I  think  I 
might  discuss  with  you  today  what  kind  of  a  community 
we  have  here  at  WPI.  I  think  that  the  key  way  of  describing 
this  kind  of  community  lies  in  noting  the  responsibility  of 
the  students  and  the  responsiveness  of  the  institution,  and  I 
think  that  as  long  as  the  students  remain  responsible  in 
their  behavior  —  and  I  don't  say  unconcerned  with  the  great 
political  and  social  issues  of  the  day,  but  responsible  in  the 
expression  of  their  concern  —  then  there  is  time  and  there  is 
room  for  the  institution  to  be  responsive  to  them  in  all 
reasonable  ways.  By  the  same  token,  as  long  as  the 
institution  remains  responsive,  I  think  we  can  count  on 
responsible  students. 

This  is  the  kind  of  situation  that  was  seen  here  during 
May  last  year  in  contrast  with  other  schools.  As  this  year 
goes  along,  I  think  that  all  predictions  seem  to  indicate  that 
it  is  going  to  be  a  worse  year  across  the  country  than  we 
have  seen  in  the  past,  but  I  don't  see  anything  in  the  cards 
for  us  to  change  our  picture.  I  think  we  have  got  a  situation 
here  where  the  kids  who  feel  deeply  nevertheless  know  how 
to  keep  those  feelings  and  their  form  of  expression  in 
appropriate  channels.  What  we  have  here  is  a  community,  I 
think,  that  participates  in  its  own  future,  and  the  WPI 
PLAN  which  will  be  the  focus  of  what  you  will  hear  about, 
of  course,  is  the  heart  of  that  future. 

As  far  as  the  student  community  goes,  I  think  we  can 
say  that  we  have  moved  forward  here.  We  have  begun  to 
bring  in  two  groups  that  are  much  in  the  news  —  blacks  and 
gals.  Our  doubling  rate  for  each  group  is  one  year;  we 
brought  in  some  25  girls  last  year  and  another  25  this  year, 
and  the  number  of  blacks  on  campus  has  also  doubled  this 
year,  though  it  is  still  only  17.  Now,  of  course,  I  don't 
think  either  of  these  doubling  rates  can  go  on  for  too  long 
—  at  that  rate  we'd  be  a  women's  college  in  seven  years!  — 
but  what  I'm  trying  to  suggest  is  that  there  is  a  healthy  kind 
of  reasonable,  responsible  growth  here. 

This  institution  is  responding  appropriately  to  great 
contemporary  needs.  There  is  certainly  a  lot  of  untapped 
talent  amongst  women,  and  I  think  we  are  starting  to  see 
the  necessity  for  educating  women  in  all  walks  of  life  that 
might  appropriately  be  theirs  according  to  their  abilities.  So 
far  as  our  growing  black  community  is  concerned,  I  think 


two  things  may  be  said.  Affluence  does  not  insulate  blacks 
against  a  lot  of  the  negative  spin-offs  of  technological 
development  the  way  affluence  insulates  so  many  of  us  who 
are  white.  On  the  other  hand,  neither  have  blacks  developed 
so  far  any  kind  of  managerial  class  that  could  at  all  be 
called  a  managerial  class,  and  current  efforts  at  supporting 
so-called  "black  capitalism",  which  I'm  sure  you  have  read 
about,  tend  to  be  very  superficial  things  —  crash  programs, 
public  relations  efforts  with  inadequate  long-run  capitaliza- 
tion. But  it  is  the  long,  slow,  steady,  careful  haul  that  we 
must  be  concerned  with  as  educators. 

Now  I  would  like  to  skip  to  the  fraternities  in  order  to 
draw  an  analogy  here.  The  fraternity  community  in  general 
and  our  own  fraternities  here  are  in  financial  trouble.  At 
least  three  of  them  are  in  very  bad  financial  trouble  right 
now.  And  yet  they  offer  to  students  a  scale  of  group 
identity  that  is  very  advantageous  to  a  late  adolescent.  A 
late  adolescent  struggling  for  his  own  identity  is  going  to 
find  it  much  easier  to  build  that  identity  amongst  his  peers. 
If  we  can  continue  to  see  the  fraternity  type  of  life  go  on 
here,  I  think  it  is  going  to  be  a  great  boon  for  the  future  of 
this  school.  By  analogy,  the  blacks,  most  of  them,  are  now 
living  on  one  floor  of  one  of  our  dormitories.  I  would 
expect  an  emergent  black  student  union  in  the  course  of 
this  year.  This  is  not  something  that  should  horrify 
anybody.  I  would  expect  that  it  would  come.  They  are 
trying  to  search  for  the  same  kind  of  in-group  solidarity 
that  fraternity  men  always  have,  and  though  one  could  wish 
that  adolescent  identity  were  easier  to  come  by,  growing  up 
is  hard.  Now  this  is  also  the  same  kind  of  situation  our  gals 
find  by  living  somewhat  together.  Now  I  say  somewhat 
together.  They  are  "segregated"  too,  set  apart  at  the  end  of 
a  hall,  and  there  are  men  on  the  other  end.  This  may  be  the 
limit  of  the  kind  of  co-educational  housing  we'll  get  into, 
but  this  makes  a  lot  of  sense  in  this  kind  of  a  set-up.  I  think 
the  point  is  that  in  any  community  that  is  viable  -  and  ours 
is  a  small  one,  we  are  a  small  school,  but  it  is  still  a  very 
large  school  for  a  lonely  freshman  coming  in  -  in  any 
community  that  is  viable,  it  has  to  have  its  subcultures. 

One  hopes,  of  course,  that  these  groups  are  not  abrasive 
on  one  another,  and  this  is  where  we  can,  I  think,  with 
some  anticipation  in  our  office,  be  sure  we  can  head  off 
those  kinds  of  abrasive  confrontations  and  polarizations 
that  are  occurring  throughout  many  of  our  schools  and  are 


20 


THE  JOURNA 


just  tearing  our  schools  apart.  The  way  I  think  in  which  we 
can  do  this  is  by  encouraging,  again,  the  responsible 
participation  of  students.  We  had  four  students  on  the 
Trustee  Committee  on  Academic  and  Student  Affairs  last 
year.  We  will  continue  this.  This  gives  student  ideas  a  route 
right  to  the  trustees.  We  have  students  on  our  food 
committee,  on  the  planning  committee  for  future  housing 
and  also  on  the  planning  committee  for  the  development  of 
a  campus  center.  And  of  course  we  have  our  Tech 
Community  Council  with  all  forms  of  representation  and 
participation. 

But  I  would  like  to  tell  you  about  one  particular 
situation  in  which  a  student  has  become  involved,  not 
because  it  is  such  a  significant  thing  in  itself,  but  because 
the  principle  involved,  I  think,  is  worth  looking  at.  As  a 
new  arrival  in  the  WPI  community  last  summer,  I  was  told 
that  I  ought  to  go  down  and  see  how  the  hippy  community 
lives  at  night  down  in  Elm  Park  and  along  Highland  Street, 
and  so  I  put  on  the  hippiest  clothes  that  I  have  —  a 
cashmere  sweater  and  some  khaki  pants,  mussed  up  my  hair 
a  bit  —  and  went  down.  After  spending  a  great  deal  of  time 
in  deep  study  of  the  hippies  —  about  four  or  five  minutes  — 
I  went  in  to  get  a  pizza  pie  at  a  partor  there  and  saw  a 
fellow  reading  a  computer  print-out.  I  thought,  "Wow,  I'm 
home."  I  introduced  myself  and,  yes,  he  was  a  WPI  student. 
It  turned  out  that  he  was  a  student  who  is  carrying  on  a 
love  affair  night  after  night  with  a  two-million-dollar  girl 
friend  down  here  below  floors  in  this  library.  He  loves 
computers,  and  so  he  brought  me  back  and  led  me  around. 
I  was  incredibly  dumb,  and  he  was  doing  just  as  a  good 
teacher  must  —  being  patient  with  his  student.  And  so  we 
started  talking  about  this  and  that  and  we  went  on  for  a 
couple  of  hours.  It  turned  out  that  he  offered  to  write  us  a 
rooming  program  for  incoming  freshmen.  Now  this  is 
probably  not  a  very  elaborate  thing.  It  is  something  like  a 


computer  dating  program,  I  suppose,  but  what  it  will  offer 
is  a  variety  of  criteria  by  which  students  might  choose  their 
roommates,  and  we  haven't  had  that  so  far.  This  will  be  a 
technological  means  to  a  slightly  more  humane  community. 
What  we  are  doing  is  extending  the  range  of  student  choice 
by  consulting  students  technically  to  create  a  better  system 
in  the  community.  I  think  you  can  see  readily  that  this  kind 
of  principle  applied  widely  enough  can  be  a  terrific  boon  to 
heading  off  the  kinds  of  troubles  that  unresponsive  institu- 
tions have  been  having.  I  wouldn't  want  to  parade  this  one 
anecdote  very  far,  but  I  think  the  principles  of  a  kind  of 
community  cooperation  exist  here,  and  if  roommate 
conflicts  can  be  resolved  —  resolved  in  advance  —  then 
similar  planning  might  by  the  same  principle  serve  in  other 
forms  to  aid  in  conflict  resolution,  responsible  students 
working  within  an  institution  responsive  to  human  needs. 

One  reason  for  the  politicization  of  so  many  of  our 
campuses  is  a  failure  of  social  imagination.  We  have  too  few 
basic  models  for  conflict  resolution  and  cooperation  —  our 
models  have  been  confrontational,  adversary  models, 
judicial,  political,  negotiational  through  collective  bar- 
gaining. But  there  are  others,  participatory  and  cooperative 
—  those  drawn,  for  example,  from  consensual  discussion  or 
non-zero-sum  games  —  and  it  is  a  puzzling  failure  of  the 
campus  imagination  that  we  have  not  attempted  system- 
atically to  experiment  with  our  own  brain-children.  What 
some  of  these  experiments  might  have  in  common  could  be 
the  reciprocity  between  experimental  subjects  and  experi- 
mental objectives,  between  the  individual  and  the  institu- 
tion —  what  I  earlier  called  the  reciprocity  between 
responsible  students  and  a  responsive  faculty  and  adminis- 
tration. This  can  take  time,  but  unlike  so  many  other 
colleges  today,  WPI  does  have  some  time  on  its  side.  We  are 
fortunate  that  we  have  already  begun  to  seize  this  moment 
of  history  that  we  still  have  left. 


■HE  JOURNAL 


21 


Chapter  Programs  and  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund 


ANNUAL  FUND 

Although  only  preliminary  returns  are  in  for  the 
1970-71  Annual  Alumni  Fund,  it  appears  as  though  an 
excellent  start  has  been  made  by  our  alumni.  Early 
indications  point  to  a  participation  level  above  the  50%  goal 
for  the  first  chapter  solicited  (Berkshire)  and  a  dollar  value 
which  should  equal  or  exceed  their  chapter's  goal.  In 
addition,  the  solicitation  of  the  administrative  people  at 
WPI  who  are  alumni  has  resulted  in  a  100%  participation 
level  and  an  average  gift  of  over  one  hundred  dollars.  Thus, 
there  are  many  signs  which  contribute  to  the  optimism. 

Starting  with  a  basic  philosophy  that  personal  solicita- 
tion procedures  would  be  the  best  way  to  conduct  the 
Annual  Fund  this  year  and  the  best  way  to  improve  alumni 
giving,  the  program  was  organized  on  a  chapter-by-chapter 
solicitation  basis,  with  each  of  our  28  chapters  being 
solicited  during  a  short  and  concentrated  period  of  time. 
Alumni  who  are  out-of-district  are  being  solicited  by  mail. 

Our  goals  this  year  call  for  a  5Q%  participation  level  and 
a  monetary  goal  of  $300,000,  more  than  double  our  best 
previous  year.  The  goal  of  $300,000  was  set  as  the  alumni 
portion  of  a  $600,000  fund  raising  effort  which  is  a  result 
of  a  budgetary  deficit  of  that  amount. 

CAN  IT  BE  DONE? 

An  obvious  question,  yet  an  easy  question  to  answer. 
The  answer  is  a  very  emphatic  YESr  And  the  reasoning 
behind  the  affirmative  answer  is  based  on  the  performance 
of  annual  funds  at  other  colleges  in  the  northeast.  A 
representative  group  of  other  institutions,  which  excludes 


Harvard,  Yale,  and  Dartmouth,  but  includes,  among  others, 
Amherst,  Bowdoin,  Holy  Cross,  RPI,  and  Stevens,  shows  an 
average  gift  of  $99.00  and  a  dollars  per  alumnus  figure  of 
$38.08.  WPI  during  the  same  period  (1967-69)  has  had  an 
average  gift  of  $41.20  and  a  dollars  per  alumnus  figure  of 
$13.34.  Thus,  it  appears  that  our  goals  are  very  real  and 
attainable  if  we  only  raise  our  figures  to  about  double  our 
past  efforts. 

CHAPTER  PROGRAMS 

Alumni  chapter  programs  have  been  very  successful  so 
far  this  year  as  we  embark  on  an  expanded  schedule.  To 
date  over  20  meetings  have  been  held  since  September  and 
attendance  has  averaged  from  12  to  25  per  cent  of  the 
chapter  membership.  Among  the  more  popular  speakers 
from  the  campus  have  been  Dr.  Hazzard;  Roger  Perry,  '45, 
and  Doug  McKeown,  '41 ,  speaking  about  the  Clean  Air  Car 
Race;  Dean  Bill  Grogan,  '46,  discussing  the  WPI  PLAN;  and 
Dean  Donald  Reutlinger,  talking  about  students. 

About  60  more  meetings  are  scheduled  around  the 
country  for  the  remainder  of  the  year.  They  offer  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  meet  old  friends  and  to  find  out 
what  is  going  on  back  on  the  Hill.  Space  does  not  permit 
the  full  schedule  to  be  printed,  but  if  you  are  visiting  an 
area  and  want  information  about  chapter  meetings,  a  phone 
call  to  the  area  chapter  president,  listed  on  page  33,  will 
answer  the  question.  And  incidentally,  chapter  meetings  are 
never  fund  raising  meetings  and  you  will  not  be  asked  for  a 
donation  to  the  college. 


ADDITIONS  AND  CORRECTIONS  TO  THE  1969-1970  FUND  REPORT 

Total  Alumni  Giving 

$134,011.79 

Challenge  Gift 

16,433.56 

Matching  Gifts 

14,391.88 

Total           

164,837.23 

CONTRIBUTORS 

Solomon  Hurowitz,  '22 

James  J.  O'Connor,  Jr.,  '54 

Clubs 

Judson  M.  Goodnow,  '23 

Brian  J.  Kelly,  '55 

Century  Club 
Halbert  E.  Pierce,  '29 
Carleton  P.  Borden,  '36 
George  E.  Saltus,  '53 

F.  Ray  Green,  '26 
Frederick  R.  Cook,  '28 
Charles  H.  Decater,  '28 
*E.  Waldemar  Carlson,  '30 

William  E.  Lloyd,  '56 
H.  Norris  Harris,  Jr.,  '57 
Peter  C.  Dirksen,  Jr.,  '58 
•William  C.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58 

"Lawrence  L.  Israel,  '61 
Booster  Club 

Michael  C.  Sodano,  '31 
David  Goldrosen,  '32 
John  A.  Henrickson,  '33 

Carl  A.  Strand,  '58 
William  H.  Bailey,  '59 
•Robert  A.  Berg,  '59  (Should  have  been 

Myron  M.  Smith,  '15 

Harold  N.  Cox,  Jr.,  '37 

listed  as  a  lifetime  contributor) 

Donald  L.  King,  '27 
L.  Howard  Reagan,  '44 

Raymond  W.  Schuh,  '37 
Edward  A.  Hebditch,  '42 

Thomas  Houston,  '60 
John  J.  O'Meara,  '61 

Jaak  Jurison,  '54 
George  F.  Foxhall,  '61 
Richard  H.  Nelson,  '61 
Peter  T.  Grosch,  '69 

•Kimball  R.  Woodbury,  '44 
Francis  X.  Lambert,  '48 
Paul  H.  Beaudry,  '49 
Walter  L.  Beckwith,  Jr.,  '49 

Frederic  A.  Stevens,  '61 
William  A.  Krein,  '62 
Robert  M.  Malbon,  '63 
Frederic  D.  Riley,  '63 

Other 

Charles  P.  Gure,  '50 

Paul  A.  Schuster,  '65 

•George  K.  Howe,  '01  (Should  have  been 

William  T.  Baker, '51 

Bruce  C.  Yung,  '65 

listed  as  a  lifetime  contributor) 

Philip  J.  O'Connor,  '52 

Ronald  Swers,  '66 

In  Memoriam:  Richard  W.  Young, 

'16 

Richard  A.  Zeleny,  '52 

David  A.  Kuniholm,  Jr.,  '69 

22 


THE  JOURNAL 


2  EiltlGDtBBW 


LESTER  W.  WEST,  '00 

Lester  W.  West,  '00,  died  on  July  9, 
1970,  in  Holden,  Mass.  He  was  91. 

Mr.  West  was  born  in  Sterling,  Mass.,  on 
October  15,  1878  and  graduated  from  West- 
boro  (Mass.)  High  School  in  1896.  In  the 
fall  of  1896  he  entered  WPI  and  graduated 
in  1900  with  a  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
civil  engineering. 

Mr.  West  began  his  career  as  a  structural 
steel  draftsman  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  In  1903 
he  joined  the  Eastern  Bridge  and  Structural 
Co.  of  Worcester,  where  he  became  chief 
engineer  of  construction.  In  1932  he  en- 
tered private  practice  and  continued  as  a 
structural  steel  design  engineer  until  his 
retirement  in  1965.  He  was  a  consulting 
structural  engineer  for  such  Worcester 
buildings  as  the  Park  Building,  the  Bancroft 
Hotel,  and  the  Pearl-Elm  Municipal  Garage. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Quinsigamond 
Lodge  of  Masons,  the  Worcester  Rotary 
Club,  the  University  Club  of  Worcester,  and 
was  a  former  member  of  the  Worcester 
Music  Festival  Chorus  and  the  Worcester 
Oratorio  Society  Chorus.  In  1963  he  re- 
ceived the  Worcester  Engineering  Society's 
Scientific  Achievement  Award. 

Survivors  include  a  son,  Richard  G.,  of 
Holden,  Mass.;  four  grandchildren;  and  one 
great-grandchild. 


BILLINGS  M.  STEVENS,  '05 

Billings  M.  Stevens,  '05,  passed  away  on 
November  2,  1968,  in  W.  Brookfield,  Mass. 
Mr.  Stevens  was  born  on  February  19,  1884, 
in  Leicester,  Mass.,  and  attended  Worcester 
High  School  before  entering  WPI  in  1901. 

He  was  a  retired  partner  in  Mann  & 
Stevens  Woolen  Co.  and  had  served  the 
town  of  N.  Brookfield,  Mass.  in  many 
capacities,  including  selectman  for  ten  years, 
assessor  for  20  years,  and  being  a  member  of 
the  local  draft  board  and  civil  defense 
organization.  He  was  also  a  member  of  the 
N.  Brookfield  Grange  and  was  president  of 
the  N.  Brookfield  Savings  Bank  for  12  years. 


CLINTON  B.  TAYLOR,  '09 

Clinton  B.  Taylor,  '09,  passed  away  on 
October  27,  1969,  at  the  age  of  85. 

He  was  a  member  of  Delta  Tau  frater- 
nity at  WPI,  and  his  business  life  included 
work  as  a  chemist,  and  as  a  member  of  the 
Connecticut  State  Legislature. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Kate  L.  (Perry) 
Taylor;  11  children;  35  grandchildren;  and 
three  great-grandchildren. 


CHARLES  T.  LEIGH,  '11 

Charles  T.  Leigh,  '11,  passed  away  on 
April  19,  1970,  after  a  long  illness. 

Born  on  September  25,  1885,  in  Nelson, 
Neb.,  Mr.  Leigh  attended  the  University  of 
Washington  before  enrolling  at  WPI  in  1908. 


We  welcome 
your  comments 

and  ideas 
concerning  the 

publication 
of  the  Journal. 


He  graduated  in  1911  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  He 
was  a  member  of  Kappa  Sigma  at  the 
University  of  Washington  and  at  WPI  was 
selected  for  membership  in  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi. 

Mr.  Leigh  spent  the  majority  of  his 
business  career  in  Pacific  coastline  states  and 
in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  From  1932  to  1946  he  was 
material  supervisor  and  vice  president  of 
Consolidated  Aircraft  Corp.,  Buffalo,  N.Y., 
and  later  was  vice  president  of  Consolidated 
Vultee  Corp.  in  San  Diego,  Calif.  He  was 
also  a  director  and  officer  of  many  other 
organizations.  He  was  active  in  the  San 
Diego  Chamber  of  Commerce,  the  San 
Diego  Community  Chest,  and  was  a  past 
member  of  the  California  Highway  Commis- 
sion. 

Among  his  survivors  is  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Helen  (demons)  Leigh  of  San  Diego,  Calif. 


LEON  H.  TREADWELL,  '12 

Leon  H.  Treadwell,  '12,  died  on  August 
23,  1970,  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  at  the  age  of 
85. 

Mr.  Treadwell  was  born  on  October  11, 
1884,  in  Bethel,  Conn.,  and  graduated  from 
Bethel  High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1908 
and  graduated  in  1912  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  He 
was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity.  He 
was  president  of  his  graduating  class  at  WPI. 

After  graduation  Mr.  Treadwell  was  em- 
ployed as  assistant  to  the  general  foreman  of 
the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Pittsfield,  Mass., 
and  in  1915  he  formed  the  Treadwell 
Electric  Co.  in  Worcester,  an  organization  of 
which  he  was  president,  treasurer,  and 
owner. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Kiwanis  Club  in 
Worcester  and  had  served  that  organization 
as  its  president  in  1934.  He  was  also  active 
in  the  Methodist  Church  in  Worcester  and 
New  England,  and  in  1962  he  was  voted 
layman  of  the  year  by  the  Wesley  Methodist 
Church  of  Worcester. 


THE  JOURNAL 


23 


He  leaves  his  widow,  Margaret  J.  (Smith) 
Treadwell;  a  son;  and  two  grandchildren. 


JOHN  C.  FRENCH,  '13 

John  C.  French,  '13,  passed  away  on 
February  10,  1970,  in  Montebello,  Quebec 
Province,  Canada. 

He  was  a  retired  chief  chemist  of 
Hercules  Powder. 

Further  details  are  unavailable. 


LEON  H.  GREENWOOD,  '13 

Leon  H.  Greenwood,  '13,  passed  away 
on  April  29,  1970. 

Mr.  Greenwood  was  born  on  March  4, 
1888,  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  and  graduated 
from  Fitchburg  High  School  before  entering 
WPI  in  1909.  He  graduated  in  1913  with  a 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  electrical 
engineering  and  was  elected  to  membership 
in  the  honorary  society  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

He  joined  the  American  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Co.  in  New  York  City  soon  after 
his  graduation  and  served  with  that  com- 
pany for  over  30  years  before  his  retirement 
in  1948. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  Mr.  Green- 
wood was  a  resident  of  State  College,  Pa. 


ALBIN  HEDLUND,  '14 

Albin  Hedlund,  '14,  passed  away  in  his 
home  in  Worcester  on  May  8,  1970. 

Mr.  Hedlund  was  born  in  Sweden  on 
September  2,  1891,  and  graduated  from 
English  High  School  in  Worcester  before 
entering  WPI  in  1910.  He  graduated  with  a 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  civil  engineer- 
ing in  1914.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 

He  was  superintendent  of  the  Logan  and 
Whitcomb  divisions  of  the  U.S.  Envelope 
Co.  for  many  years,  before  his  retirement  in 
1956. 

He  served  as  a  U.S.  Army  captain  in 
World  War  I  with  the  303rd  Field  Artillery, 
76th  Div. 

He  was  a  member  of  Salem  Covenant 
Church  and  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old 
Timers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Anna  E.  (Ullstroml 
Hedlund;  a  daughter;  two  sisters;  a  grand- 
son; and  several  nieces  and  nephews. 


G.  NOBLE  DAVIDSON,  '15 
G.  Noble  Davidson,  '15,  passed  away  on 
August  23,  1970. 

A  native  of  Chicopee  Falls,  Mass.,  Mr. 
Davidson  entered  WPI  in  1911  and  grad- 
uated in  1915  with  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree   in   electrical   engineering.    He  was  a 


member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  honorary  society 
and  Alpha  Tau  Omega  social  fraternity. 

Mr.  Davidson  was  employed  by  the 
Savage  Arms  Corp.  from  1915  to  1949  and 
held  such  positions  as  assistant  superintend- 
ent, works  manager,  general  manager,  and 
finally  vice  president  of  that  organization. 
He  then  formed  the  Noble  Manufacturing 
Co.,  Inc.  of  Haydenville,  Mass.,  an  organiza- 
tion of  which  he  was  president  and  treas- 
urer. 

He  was  a  registered  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts, a  Mason,  a  member  of  the 
Chicopee  (Mass.)  Planning  Commission,  and 
president  of  the  Chicopee  Falls  Savings 
Bank. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Alice  W.  (Harrison) 
Davidson;  a  son  and  a  daughter. 


HAROLD  A.  CLEVELAND,  '16 

Harold  A.  Cleveland,  '16,  passed  away 
on  August  17,  1970,  in  Pompano  Beach, 
Fla.  He  was  77. 

Born  in  Woonsocket,  R.I.,  on  August 
14,  1893,  Mr.  Cleveland  entered  WPI  in 
1912  and  received  a  B.S.  degree  in  civil 
engineering  in  1916.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a 
member  of  Skull  and  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
fraternity. 

Mr.  Cleveland  was  employed  by  the 
Associated  Factory  Mutual  Fire  Insurance 
Companies  for  many  years,  serving  as  a 
resident  inspector,  an  engineer,  and  a  resi- 
dent engineer. 

He  is  survived  by  two  sons  and  a 
brother. 


FRANCIS  E.  SHEEHAN,  '18 

Lt.  Col.  (ret.)  Francis  E.  Sheehan,  '18, 
passed  away  in  Independence  (Mo.)  Hospital 
on  August  6,  1970.  He  was  75. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on 
May  31,  1895,  and  graduated  in  1918  with  a 
B.S.  degree  in  civil  engineering.  He  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity.  He 
attended  the  Graduate  Civil  Affairs  School 
of  the  University  of  Michigan. 

Col.  Sheehan  was  a  former  resident  of 
Portsmouth,  Ohio,  where  he  was  city  man- 
ager and  director  of  the  Portsmouth 
Housing  Authority  and  Portsmouth  Water 
Works  before  going  on  active  duty  with  the 
Army  in  1943.  During  World  War  II  he 
served  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  with  the 
specialist  corps  of  the  Army.  Following 
World  War  II  he  was  deputy  director  of  the 
military  government  of  Hesse,  Germany 
with  headquarters  at  Wiesbaden.  He  retired 
in  1967. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  United  Presby- 
terian Church,  the  Elks,  the  Exchange  Club, 
and  the  Ottawa  (Kansas)  Country  Club. 


He  leaves  three  sons,  three  daughters, 
four  sisters,  and  18  grandchildren.  His  wife, 
Carolyn  E.  Sheehan,  died  in  1967. 


LOUIS  ZIONS, '19 

Louis  Zions,  '19,  a  realtor  and  a  Wash- 
ington (D.C.)  resident  for  the  past  46  years, 
died  on  September  5,  1970,  in  Washington 
following  surgery.  He  was  75. 

Mr.  Zions  was  born  in  Mayak,  Russia, 
and  came  to  the  United  States  in  1912.  He 
received  a  B.S.  degree  with  honors  in 
chemistry  from  WPI  in  1919. 

After  teaching  chemistry  briefly  at  the 
University  of  Maryland,  he  became  a  realtor 
in  Washington  in  1924. 

Mr.  Zions  was  an  active  Zionist,  a 
member  of  the  Zionist  organization  of 
America,  and  was  a  founder  and  member  of 
the  American  Society  for  Technion,  a  group 
that  helps  support  a  technical  institute  in 
Israel. 

He  is  survived  by  two  sisters. 


WILMORE  C.  HARCUS,  '21 

Wilmore  C.  Harcus,  '21,  passed  away  at 
his  home  in  Northridge,  Calif.,  on 
September  16,  1970. 

Born  in  Pawtucket,  R.I.,  on  September 
28,  1896,  Mr.  Harcus  attended  Brockton 
(Mass.)  High  School  before  entering  WPI.  He 
graduated  in  1921  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  mechanical  engineering, 
and  while  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Theta 
Chi  fraternity. 

Upon  graduation,  Mr.  Harcus  took  a 
position  with  Pacific  Telephone  and  Tele- 
graph Co.  in  San  Francisco,  Calif,  and  in 
1929  he  joined  Paramount  Pictures  as  chief 
sound  engineer.  From  1929  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1962  he  was  associated  with  the 
movie  industry  continuously  and  at  the  time 
of  his  retirement  was  employed  by  Techni- 
color Corp. 

He  was  with  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps 
during  World  War  I.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
AF  &  AM,  and  recently  was  honored  as  a 
50-year  Mason  at  Van  Nuys  (Calif.)  Masonic 
Lodge.  He  was  also  a  life  member  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers 
and  a  life  fellow  of  the  Society  of  Motion 
Picture  and  Television  Engineers. 

Surviving  him  are  his  widow,  Hazel,  of 
Northridge,  Calif.;  a  daughter;  two  sons;  one 
grandchild;  and  a  sister. 


JAMES  H.  ARNOLD,  '22 
James  H.  Arnold,  '22,  passed  away  on 

March  25,  1970,  in  Boynton  Beach,  Fla. 
Mr.  Arnold  was  born  on  July  8,  1898.  in 

Woonsocket,    R.I.,    and   attended   Classical 


24 


THE  JOURNAL 


High    School    in  Worcester   before  entering 
WPI  in  1918. 

Further  details  are  unavailable. 


MARTIN  J.  CONROY,  '22 

Martin  J.  Conroy,  '22,  passed  away  on 
June  16,  1970,  in  Livingston,  N.J.  He  was 
71. 

Born  on  December  1,  1898,  in  New 
York  City,  he  attended  Cliffside  Park  (N.J.) 
High  School  before  entering  WPI  in  1918.  A 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  fraternity,  he 
received  his  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
1922  in  electrical  engineering. 

Mr.  Conroy  spent  the  major  part  of  his 
business  career  being  associated  with  the 
building  materials  industry.  From  1923  to 
1933  he  was  treasurer  of  James  J.  Conroy  & 
Sons,  Inc.,  and  later  held  positions  with 
other  building  supply  companies,  including 
being  sales  manager  of  Metropolitan  Block 
&  Supply  Co.  of  Bladensburg,  Md.  For  the 
past  three  years,  he  was  a  real  estate 
salesman  for  Huppert-Mack  Realtors  of 
Bradenton,  Fla. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Manatee  and 
Sarasota  (Fla.)  County  Real  Estate  Associa- 
tion, 3rd  degree  Knights  of  Columbus,  and 
the  Holy  Name  Society. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Berris  (Nichols) 
Conroy;  a  son;  three  daughters;  a  brother;  a 
sister;  and  14  grandchildren. 

RAYMOND  D.  MORRISON,  '23 

Raymond  D.  Morrison,  '23,  passed  away 
in  Scarborough,  Me.,  on  July  2,  1970,  at  the 
age  of  72. 

Mr.  Morrison  was  born  in  Newport,  R.I., 
on  May  7,  1898,  and  attended  Rogers  High 
School  in  Newport.  He  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1923  with  a  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering, and  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity  and  Skull. 

From  1923  to  1926,  Mr.  Morrison  was 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co.  He 
then  was  employed  for  39  years  by  the 
Central  Maine  Power  Co.  before  his  retire- 
ment in  1966.  At  the  time  of  his  retirement 
he  was  director  of  industrial  and  commercial 
sales. 

Mr.  Morrison  was  a  member  of  the 
Maine  Association  of  Engineers,  was  a  Pro- 
fessional Engineer  in  the  state  of  Maine,  and 
was  a  member  of  numerous  other  electrical 
engineering  associations.  He  was  a  life 
member  of  the  Industrial  Development 
Council  of  Maine  and  was  active  in  the  Boy 
Scouts  and  the  Episcopal  Church.  He  was 
also  a  member  of  the  Masons  and  the 
American  Legion. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Mrs.  Miriam 
(Washburn)  Morrison  of  Augusta,  Me.;  a 
son;  a  daughter;  six  grandchildren;  two 
nephews;  and  one  niece. 


PALMER  J.  COOK, '24 

Palmer  J.  Cook,  '24,  passed  away  on 
August  9,  1970,  in  S.  Dennis,  Mass.  He  was 
70. 

A  lifelong  resident  of  Southfield,  Mass., 
Mr.  Cook  was  born  on  June  1,  1900,  and 
attended  Phillips  Exeter  Academy  before 
entering  WPI.  He  graduated  in  1924  with  a 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  He  was  a 
member  of  Ph:  Sigma  Kappa  fraternity. 

Mr.  Cook  was  a  former  vice  president 
and  treasurer  of  Turner  &  Cook,  Inc.  of 
Southfield.  He  was  active  in  the  United 
Church  of  New  Marlboro,  Mass.,  was  a 
Mason,  a  member  of  the  Grange,  and  for 
many  years  was  town  treasurer  of  New 
Marlboro.  He  also  served  as  chief  of  the  New 
Marlboro  Fire  Dept. 

In  addition  to  his  widow,  Frances  W. 
(Hastings)  Cook,  he  leaves  a  son;  a  daughter; 
two  brothers;  two  sisters;  five  grand- 
children; and  three  great-grandchildren. 


FRANCIS  J.  GREENLEY,  '24 

Francis  J.  Greenley,  '24,  passed  away  on 
April  2,  1970. 

Born  in  Chicago,  III.,  on  October  4, 
1901,  he  attended  Classical  High  School  in 
Worcester  before  entering  WPI  in  the  fall  of 
1920.  He  received  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  1924  and 
was  selected  for  membership  in  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

After  graduation,  Mr.  Greenley  was 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co.  for 
two  years  prior  to  joining  the  Public  Service 
Electric  &  Gas  Co.  of  N.J.  in  1926.  He  was 
with  that  company  until  his  retirement,  and 
at  the  time  of  his  retirement  he  was  a  sales 
engineer.  During  his  retirement  he  worked 
as  a  consulting  engineer  in  Freehold,  N.J. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Francis  J.  Greenley,  of  Freehold,  N.J. 


MICHAEL  S.  VARTANOFF,  '27 

Michael  S.  Vartanoff,  '27  (formerly 
Vartanian),  died  on  March  28,  1970,  after 
suffering  a  heart  attack.  He  was  69. 

Born  in  what  is  now  known  as  Tbilisi, 
the  capital  of  Soviet  Georgia,  he  left  Russia 
in  1921  and  spent  a  year  in  Istanbul, 
Turkey,  before  moving  to  the  United  States. 
A  specialist  on  the  Soviet  Union  in  the 
Army  Map  Service  for  27  years,  Mr. 
Vartanoff  began  his  government  career  in 
World  War  II.  In  1945  Mr.  Vartanoff  at- 
tended the  San  Francisco  Conference  which 
founded  the  United  Nations  and  acted  as  a 
Russian  language  interpreter  for  former 
Secretary  of  State  Edward  R.  Stettinius. 


Mr.  Vartanoff  was  a  member  of  the 
Society  of  Geographers,  the  American  Name 
Society,  the  Association  of  American 
Geographers,  and  the  Society  of  American 
Military  Engineers. 


MICHAEL  H.  MANZI,  SR.,  '37 

Michael  H.  Manzi,  Sr.,  '37,  passed  away 
in  Nassau,  N.Y.,  on  October  24,  1968.  He 
had  been  supervisor  of  electrical  engineering 
at  Sperry  Gyroscope  for  28  years. 

Born  on  December  12,  1909,  in  Mill- 
brook,  N.Y.,  Mr.  Manzi  entered  WPI  in  1934 
and  graduated  with  a  degree  in  electrical 
engineering  in  1937. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Anne;  a 
daughter;  a  son;  his  father;  and  five  brothers 
and  sisters. 


ROBERT  D.  MORGAN,  '55 

Robert  D.  Morgan,  '55,  died  in  Largo, 
Fla.,  on  November  1,  1965,  after  suffering  a 
cerebral  hemorrhage. 

Born  in  Albany,  N.Y.,  on  May  2,  1933, 
he  attended  Bethlehem  Central  High  School 
in  Delmar,  N.Y.,  before  entering  WPI  in 
September,  1951.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a 
member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity, 
and  he  graduated  in  1955  with  a  degree  in 
electrical  engineering. 

After  graduation,  Mr.  Morgan  was  em- 
ployed at  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  and  at 
McDonnell  Douglas  Corp.  in  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  employed 
by  Minneapolis-Honeywell  in  Largo,  Fla. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Peggy,  and 
two  children,  Lynne  and  Steven. 


ALFRED  F.  FERRON,  SIM  '62 

Alfred  F.  Ferron,  SIM  '62,  passed  away 
on  July  5,  1970,  in  Southbridge,  Mass.,  at 
the  age  of  52. 

Born  in  Southbridge,  Mass.,  he  was 
graduated  from  Mary  E.  Wells  High  School 
and  was  active  in  sports  most  of  his  life.  He 
played  semi-pro  football  and  was  active  in 
many  Softball  and  baseball  leagues  as  well  as 
being  a  basketball  official. 

He  had  been  employed  by  Hyde  Manu- 
facturing Co.  of  Southbridge  for  nearly  35 
years.  He  joined  the  company  in  1935  as  a 
grinder  and  held  positions  as  quality  control 
supervisor,  production  manager,  and  plant 
superintendent.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he 
was  vice  president  of  manufacturing. 

Besides  his  mother,  Mrs.  Albina  (Benoit) 
Ferron,  he  leaves  his  wife,  Celia  P.  (Pezzetti) 
Ferron;  three  sons;  a  brother;  and  three 
grandchildren. 


HE  JOURNAL 


25 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1908 

While  it  happened  over  a  year  ago,  it  has 
just  come  to  the  attention  of  the  secretary 
that  our  classmate  SUMNER  A.  DAVIS  and 
his  son,  Dr.  S.  D.  Davis,  were  given  a 
two-column  write-up  in  the  "Daily  Home" 
of  Talladega,  Ala.  At  the  9th  Annual  Eagle 
Scout  Recognition  Banquet,  "S.A."  was 
honored  for  forty-seven  years  active  Scout- 
ing service,  which  included  founding  at 
Birmingham  the  first  Sea  Scout  Flagship  in 
the  state. 

Donald  D.  Simonds 
Secretary 

1913 

John  F.  Chick  &  Son,  Inc.,  of  Silver 
Lake,  N.H.,  recently  celebrated  its  100th 
anniversary.  The  firm,  a  lumber  supply  and 
architectural  millwork  concern,  has  as  its 
treasurer  GEORGE  E.  CHICK.  ..  ALLEN 
H.  GRIDLEY  is  an  engineer  with  Charles  R. 
Velzy  Associates,  White  Plains,  N.Y. 


1916 

LEON  W.  DUNBAR  is  now  residing  in 
Tampa,  Fla. 

1922 

EDWARD  H.  COLESWORTHY  reports 
that  he  is  now  residing  in  Sarasota,  Fla. 

1923 

WILLIAM  J!  HARRINGTON  writes:  "I 
am  now  residing  in  home  town,  Millville, 
Mass.  Retired  after  44  years  and  10  months 
with  UniRoyal,  Inc.,  in  various  capacities, 
mostly  as  a  cost  accountant  and  cost  analyst 
in  various  parts  of  the  country."  .  .  . 
HAROLD  H.  JUDSON  now  resides  in  San 
Antonio,  Tex. 

1927 

CHARLES  F.  MONNIER,  who  is  em- 
ployed by  Commonwealth  Associates,  Inc., 
writes:  "I  am  in  Vietnam  temporarily  (until 
early     or     mid-1971).      Heard     about     Ed 


Delano's  bicycle  ride  on  Armed  Forces  radio 
here  in  Saigon  and  exchanged  letters  with 
him.".  ..JOHN  A.  H.  CROSIER  reports 
that  he  is  a  purchasing  agent  with  Stone  & 
Webster  Engineering  Corp.  in  Tuscola,  III., 
and  he  is  residing  in  Easton,  Md. 

1928 

Prof.  CARL  F.  ALSING  has  been  ap- 
pointed acting  administrator  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Hartford  (Conn.)  School  of  Engineer- 
ing. He  joined  the  University  of  Hartford 
Engineering  School  as  an  assistant  professor 
in  September,  1959,  and  served  as  head  of 
the  Electrical  Engineering  Dept.  .  .  THEO- 
DORE J.  ENGLUND  retired  in  1969  after 
45  years  service  with  Norton  Co.  in  Worces- 
ter. He  resides  in  Shrewsbury. 

1929 

Dr.  ARTHUR  H.  BURR  isSibley  Profes- 
sor  of   Mechanical    Engineering   at  Cornell 


Dr.  Burr 

University,  Ithaca,  N.Y.  He  recently  re- 
turned after  spending  two  years  in  India  .  .  . 
EDWARDS.  COURVILLE  has  retired  from 
the  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington,  Conn.  He 
was  Excelsior  Plant  manager  .  .  .  EROLD  F. 
PIERCE  has  retired  from  the  Curtiss  Wright 
Corp.,  Wood-Ridge,  N.J.,  where  he  was  chief 
scientist. 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01S05 


26 


THE  JOURN 


1930 

CARL  G.  NORDMARK,  advertising  and 
sales  promotion  manager  for  the  L.  S. 
Starrett  Co.  of  Athol,  Mass.  has  retired  and 
moved  to  the  state  of  Washington. 

1936 

CLINTON  E.  LEECH  is  a  consulting 
engineer  for  the  Public  Service  Electric  & 
Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey. 

1931 

CARL  F.  SAGE  has  opened  the  Pea 
Soup  Andersen's  Inn  in  Buellton,  Calif.  .  . 
MICHAEL  C.  SODANO  reports  that  he 
retired  from  General  Electric  on  March  31, 
1970,  and  assumed  the  position  of  president 
of  Occidental1  Petroleum  of  Japan  Ltd.  on 
April  1,  1970. 

1933 

ALEXANDER  L.  ALVES,  president  and 
treasurer  of  Engineered  Sinterings  and 
Plastics,  Inc.,  has  been  elected  an  associate 
director  of  the  State  National  Bank  of 
Watertown,  Conn.  .  .  Raytheon  Co.  reports 
that  HARRY  F.  CLARKE  has  been  named 
functional  manager  for  parts  and  materials 
for  Raytheon  Co.'s  Equipment  Develop- 
ment Laboratories  in  Sudbury  and  Wayland, 
Mass.  He  will  be  responsible  for  providing 
environmental  engineering  and  parts  and 
materials  engineering  support  for  the  labora- 
tories. He  has  been  with  Raytheon  since 
1966. 

1934 

HOWARD  W.  ATKINS  has  been  nomi- 
nated for  election  to  the  board  of  directors 
of  Agway,  Inc.  The  district  for  which  he  will 
be  a  candidate  includes  the  states  of  Conn., 
Mass.,  and  R.I.  Mr.  Atkins  is  a  fruit  grower 
in  Amherst,  Mass.,  operating  a  600-acre 
farm  which  produces  apples,  peaches,  and 
pears  to  be  sold  in  his  own  retail  store. 


1937 

MORTON  S.  FINE,  owner  of  Morton  S. 
Fine  &  Associates  of  Bloomfield,  Conn.,  a 
consulting  engineering  firm,  has  been 
elected  national  chairman  of  Professional 
Engineers  in  Private  Practice  (PEPP),  a 
functional  section  of  the  National  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers,  and  he  has  also 
been  elected  to  serve  as  chairman  of  the 
Conn.  Board  of  Registration  of  Professional 
Engineers  and  Land  Surveyors  for  the 
1970-71  year.  .  .  The  town  of  Burlington, 
Mass.,  has  named  WESLEY  P.  HOLBROOK 
as  their  town  engineer.  .  .  RICHARD  J. 
LYMAN  has  been  elected  a  vice  president  of 
the  New  England  Electric  Power  Service  Co. 


1939 

GEORGE  C.  GRAHAM,  JR.,  has  been 
appointed  assistant  marketing  and  sales 
manager  —  business  papers  for  St.  Regis 
Paper  Co.  He  is  located  at  the  St.  Regis 
Technical  Center,  W.  Nyack,  N.Y.,  and  has 
been  with  the  company  since  1967.  .  .  E. 
BRUCE  CRABTREE  is  director  of  market- 
ing for  the  Erickson  Tool  Co.,  Solon,  Ohio, 
and  he  resides  in  Hudson,  Ohio. 


1941 

GUSTAF  COONTZ,  who  is  director  of 
the  U.  S.  Trade  Center  in  Frankfurt,  Ger- 
many, and  a  former  Worcester  city  coun- 
cillor, has  been  named  winner  of  the  1970 
Clark  University  Alumni  Association  Distin- 
guished Service  Award.  .  .  GEORGE  F. 
TAYLOR  is  a  senior  project  engineer  for  the 
Pratt  and  Whitney  Aircraft  Corp.  in  E. 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  GRAHAM  T.  DOUG- 
LASS of  Southern  Pines,  N.C.,  has  been 
promoted  to  manager  of  division  operations 
in  the  central  division  of  Carolina  Power  & 
Light  Co.  Graham  spent  15  years  in  the 
Marines,  retiring  as  a  colonel  in  1966  and 
has  been  employed  by  Carolina  Power  & 
Light  Co.  since  that  time.  .  .  CHARLES  L. 
HOE  BEL  has  joined  a  newly  formed  com- 
pany, Turbonetics,  Inc.  of  Latham,  N.Y.,  as 
their  vice  president  of  marketing. 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  . 

Perhaps  you  cant  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $29.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON   ROCKER 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  27J^» 
Price:  $34.00 


1942 

JOHN  M.  BARTLETT,  JR.,  is  now 
assistant  plant  manager  for  the  American 
Chain  &  Cable  Co.,  Inc.,  Page  Div.,  Wiri 
Products  Group,  Monessen,  Pa. 


Bartlett 


Fins 


1945 
RICHARD  S.  FITTS  has  received  an 
MBA  degree  from  the  University  of 
Rochester's  executive  development  pro- 
gram. He  has  been  appointed  manager  of 
personnel  and  general  systems  in  the  finance 
and  administration  division  of  Eastman 
Kodak  Co.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 

1946 

ROBERT  S.  GAMBLE  has  been  named 
manager,  new  venture  development,  for 
Commonwealth  Petrochemicals  Co.,  a  newly 
formed  operating  division  of  Common- 
wealth Oil  Refining  Co.,  Inc.  He  resides  in 
New  Canaan,  Conn. 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21 " 
Price:  $41.00      (Black  Arms) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $42.00     (Cherry  Arms) 


Send  your  remittance  and  make  checks  payable  to 

W.P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3%  sales  tax. 

All  chairs  shipped  F.O.B.,  Gardner,  Mass. 


d'HE  JOURNAL 


27 


1948 

Married:  ROBERT  H.  SHAW  to  Miss 
Arline  L.  Machacek  of  Rockville,  Conn.,  on 
September  5,  1970.  Bob  is  a  senior  project 
engineer  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Div.  of 
United  Aircraft  Corp.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn. 

WILLARD  E.  ESTEY  is  a  project  engi- 
neer for  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.  in  Norwalk, 
Conn. 

1949 

WELLEN  G.  DAVISON  is  a  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  Western  New 
England  College  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  . 
Champion  Papers,  Inc.,  in  Courtland,  Ala., 
employs  ALBERT  HARDAKER  as  a  senior 
technologist.  .  .  General  Instrument  Corp.  of 
Hicksville,  N.Y.  employs  JAMES  S.  ADAMS 
as  director  of  marketing.  .  .  ROBERT  H. 
TURCOTT  is  a  construction  manager  for 
McDevitt  &  Street  Co.  of  Atlanta,  Ga. 

1950 

Air  Force  Lt.  Col.  FRANK  W. 
HARDING,  III  recently  received  the 
Meritorious  Service  Medal  at  the  Los 
Angeles  (Calif.)  Air  Force  Station.  He  distin- 
guished himself  as  a  lunar  module  vehicle 
engineer  with  NASA  at  their  Manned  Space- 
craft Center  in  Houston,  Tex. 


Col.  Harding  Meiklejohn 

.  .  JAMES  H. 
MEIKLEJOHN,  JR.  has  been  appointed 
director  of  training,  group  departments  at 
Connecticut  General  Life  Insurance  Co., 
Hartford,  Conn.  He  joined  Conn.  General  in 
1956  and  now  resides  in  W.  Simsbury, 
Conn.  .  .  EARLE  A.  HALLSTROM  has  been 
named  director  of  manufacturing  services  of 
the  Acushnet  Co.  of  Acushnet,  Mass.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  plant  engineering,  main- 
tenance, industrial  engineering,  and  mate- 
rials management.  Earle  resides  in  Barring- 
ton,  R.I.  .  .  .  MALCOLM  D.  HORTON  has 
been  transferred  to  the  New  York  City 
office  of  Dames  &  Moore,  consulting  engi- 
neers in  the  applied  earth  sciences.  He 
resides  in  Fair  Haven,  N.J. 

1951 
JOSEPH  J.   GWIAZDOWSKI    is  an  engi- 
neer in  the  Supersonic  Transportation  Div. 
of  the  Dept.  of  Transportation  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  .  .  FOSTER  D.  SISSON  is  located 


in  Mandeville,  Jamaica,  West  Indies,  where 
he  is  employed  by  Kaiser  Engineers 
America,  Inc..  CONSTANTINO  K. 
MUSTAKIS  is  residing  in  Santiago,  Chile. 

1952 

Dr.  ROBERT  F.  ADAMSKY  has  joined 
the  staff  of  Bradford  Junior  College,  Brad- 
ford, Mass.  Most  recently,  he  worked  for  the 
NASA  Electronics  Research  Center.  .  . 
Extrudo  Film  Corp.  of  Pottsville,  Pa.,  has 
announced  the  promotion  of  ROBERT  L. 
FAVREAU  to  be  manufacturing  man- 
ager. .  .  The  Pigments  Dept.,  Edgemoor 
Plant,  of  E.  I.  duPont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
Inc.,  of  Wilmington,  Del.,  employs  JOSEPH 
D.  LOJEWSKI  as  assistant  plant  manager. 

1953 

PHILIP  A.  CHARRON  has  received  an 
MBA  degree  from  the  University  of 
Rochester's  executive  development  pro- 
gram. 

1954 

OTTO  A.  WAHLRAB  is  now  employed 
by  John  P.  Slade  &  Son  Insurance  Agency, 
Inc.,  of  Fall  River,  Mass...  ROBERT  B. 
BRODIE  writes:  "I  became  a  member  of  the 
Bar  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts 
in  December,  1968,  as  well  as  to  the  Court 
of  Customs  and  Patent  Appeals  in  Washing- 
ton. I  have  joined  the  IBM  Corp.  as  a  patent 
attorney  for  advance  technology  and  data 
communications  in  their  Raleigh  (N.  C.) 
facility.  I  expect  to  be  admitted  to  the 
North  Carolina  Baron  motion."  Bob  resides 
in  Raleigh...  W.  GERALD  DUDEVOIR 
recently  received  a  doctorate  degree  in 
engineering  from  Dartmouth  College.  He  is 
senior  engineer  in  the  Geophysical  and 
Navigational  Systems  Div.  of  Sanders  Asso- 
ciates, Inc.  of  Nashua,  N.H.  ...  Dr. 
RICHARD  W.  LINDQUIST  is  an  associate 
professor  at  Wesleyan  University,  Middle- 
town,  Conn. 

1956 

Army  Major  ROBERT  C.  SKELTON 
was  recently  graduated  from  the  Armed 
Forces  Staff  College,  Norfolk,  Va. 

1957 

Married:  KEITH  O.  PRESTON  to  Miss 
Kathleen  J.  Urban  of  Aiken,  S.  C,  and 
Oakland,  Neb.,  on  August  14,  1970.  Keith  is 
employed  in  Bloomington,  III.,  where  he  is 
plant  manager  for  Owens-Corning  Fiberglas 
Corp. 

Esso  Research  and  Engineering  Co.  in 
Linden,  N.  J.  employs  RENE  R. 
BERTRAND.  .  .  KURT  H.  FRANCE  writes 
from  California:  "I  came  to  California  in 
1958  with  my  wife  Carol  to  work  for  the 


California  State  Department  of  Water 
Resources.  .  .  I  was  with  them  for  nine 
years.  .  .  and  I  worked  on  the  design  and 
construction  of  an  1100-ft.  suspension 
bridge  and  other  features  of  the  project.  At 
present  I'm  an  engineer  for  Clair  A.  Hill  & 
Associates,  consulting  engineers  in  Redding, 
Calif.".'..  DAVID  N.  OLSON  has  been 
named  a  vice  president  of  Rowland  Prod- 


Olson 

ucts.  Inc.,  of  Kensington,  Conn.  He  has  been 
with  the  company  since  1965,  and  resides  in 
Simsbury,  Conn.  .  .  JOHN  O.  STINSON  has 
been  named  assistant  director  of  the  Berk- 
shire Medical  Center,  Pittsfield,  Mass.  He 
was  formerly  town  manager  of  Ipswich, 
Mass. 

1958 

EVERETT  W.  ANGELL  is  with  the 
Foster  Wheeler  Co.  in  Livingston,  N.  J.  .  . 
The  Jamesbury  Corp.  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
has  appointed  DONALD  W.  BEAN  corpo- 
rate products  manager.  .  .  DONALD  W. 
ILLINGWORTH  writes:  "In  February  of 
this  year,  I  was  appointed  assistant  vice 
president  of  Frank  B.  Hall  &  Co.,  Inc.  which 
we  believe  is  the  fourth  largest  international 
insurance  brokerage  firm  in  the  United 
States  with  headquarters  at  67  Wall  St.,  New 
York,  N.  Y.  I  continue  to  live  in  Berkeley 
Heights,  N.  J.  with  my  wife,  Marcia,  and 
two  children.".  ..  BERTRAND  J. 

LEMIEUX  is  director  of  engineering  for 
Ocean  Sonics,  Inc.  in  El  Segundo,  Calif.  .  . 
ROBERT  B.  SUNDHEIM  is  a  partner  with 
Yount  &  Tarrolli,  patent  attorneys  of 
Cleveland,  Ohio.  He  makes  his  home  in 
Shaker  Heights,  Ohio. 

1959 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  PETER  A. 
NELSON,  a  son,  Scott  Peter,  on  July  23, 
1970.  Pete  is  a  senior  test  engineer  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.'s  Astronuclear 
Lab.  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

LCDR.  ROBERT  A.  ALLEN  is  with  the 
U.  S.  Navy  in  Norfolk,  Va.,  and  is  living  in 
Virginia  Beach,  Va.  .  .  WILLIAM  H. 
BAILEY  writes:  "On  August  3rd  I  was 
promoted  to  the  position  of  engineer-fore- 
man of  Specialty  Products  Operation  at  the 
Cleveland  Bulb  Plant  in  the  Lamp  Glass 
Dept.  of  General  Electric  where  I  will  have 
operational  and  technical  responsibility  for 
several    special    glass   making   and    forming 


28 


THE  JOURNAI 


operations.".  .  .  The  Rev.  JOHN  H.  BRITT, 
JR.  has  been  chosen  the  1970  recipient  of 
the  Shrewsbury  (Mass.)  Jaycee  Distin- 
guished Service  Award.  Father  Britt  is 
curate  of  St.  Anne's  Church  in  Shrews- 
bury. .  .  General  Electric  Co.  employs 
GEORGE  B.  CONSTANTINE  as  a  sales 
engineer  in  Lynn,  Mass...  Dr.  DAVID  A. 
EVENSEN  is  employed  by  TRW  Co.  in 
Redondo  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  Urban  Transporta- 
tion Systems  Associates,  Inc.  of  Newton, 
Mass.,  has  THOMAS  F.  HUMPHREY  as 
their  vice  president  and  treasurer.  The  firm 
is  a  transportation  planning  consulting 
firm.  .  .  RONALD  S.  PERZAN  has  been 
promoted  to  senior  engineer  in  the  Boulder 
Product  Test  Lab  of  IBM  Corp.  in  Boulder, 
Colo...  FRANKLIN  SALEK  recently  re- 
ceived a  PhD  degree  from  Rutgers  Univer- 
sity, New  Brunswick,  N.J...  GEZA  C. 
ZIEGLER  has  been  named  Dean  of  Faculty 
—  Stamford  Branch,  Bridgeport  (Conn.) 
Engineering  Institute.  ..  Prof.  ARCHIE  K. 
McCURDY,  MS,  has  returned  to  WPI  after 
working  toward  his  PhD  degree  at  Brown 
University.  .  .  JOSEPH  E.  SWIDER,  JR.  is  a 
systems  engineer  in  the  Space  Systems  Dept. 
of  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks, 
Conn.  .  .  Winner  of  the  Worcester  Engi- 
neering Society's  1970  Admiral  Earle  Award 
was  ROBERT  L.  PRICE,  research  engineer 


at  the  Heald  Machine  Co.  in  Worcester. 
Bob's  work  on  local  hardness  variations  in 
grinding  wheels  won  him  the  Society's 
annual  award  for  outstanding  work  by  a 
young  engineer.  Presentation  was  made  at 
the  Nov.  6  Ladies  Night  program. 

1960 

ARMAND  P.  FERRO  has  received  a 
PhD  degree  from  RPI.  .  .  PAUL  E.  HONER 
has  been  promoted  to  field  operations 
manager  for  Robertshaw  Controls  Systems 
Div.,  Richmond,  Va.  He  was  previously  sales 
manager  for  the  company.  .  .  ARTHUR  J. 
LoVETERE  is  regional  manager  for 
MacDermid,  Inc.  and  is  located  in  Water- 
bury,  Conn.  .  .  JAMES  W.  MAHAN  is  em- 
ployed by  the  Aldrich  Pump  Section  of 
Ingersoll  Rand  in  Allentown,  Pa.  .  . 
WILLIAM  R.  NIMEE  reports  that  he  is  now 
regional  sales  manager  for  Cambridge 
Memories,  Inc.  of  Newtonville,  Mass.  .  . 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute's  Dept.  of 
Environmental  Engineering  has  awarded 
MICHAEL  J.  O'TOOLE,  JR.  an  MS  degree. 
He  is  currently  employed  as  chief  of  com- 
prehensive utility  planning  in  the  New  York 
State  Dept.  of  Environmental  Conserva- 
tion. .  .  Another  recent  recipient  of  a 
master's  degree  is  EDWARD  C.  STONE, 
who  received  an  MBA  degree  from  the 
University     of     Hartford.     He    is    a    senior 


engineer  with  Fafnir  Bearing  Co.  of  New 
Britain,  Conn.  .  .  S.  Brunswick,  N.  J. 
employs  BERNARD  L.  TETREAULT  as 
municipal  administrator.  .  .  International 
Tel.  &  Tel.  in  New  York  City  employs 
EDWARD  J.  RUSSELL  as  assistant  director 
of  operations  research. 

1961 

MAHAVIR  S.  SHAH  is  a  civil  engineer 
with  Perfect  Engineering  Associates  in  Bom- 
bay, India.  .  .  Fairleigh  Dickinson  University 
reports  that  HARVEY  J.  SLOVIN  received 
an  MBA  degree  in  management  in  June, 
1970.  Harvey  is  an  electronic  engineer  at  the 
U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command,  Ft.  Mon- 
mouth, N.J...  BRADLEY  E.  HOSMER  is 
now  residing  in  Washington  Depot,  Conn., 
and  is  employed  as  executive  vice  president 
of  Incentive  Techniques,  Inc.,  Norwalk, 
Conn...  CONRAD  F.  MATUZEK  is  a 
marketing  supervisor  for  New  England  Tele- 
phone Co.,  and  he  resides  in  Westboro, 
Mass. 

1962 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ARTHUR  E. 
DOBRESKI,  a  daughter,  Maureen,  on  Feb- 
ruary 20,  1970.  Art  is  an  electrical  project 
engineer  with  Geigy  Chemical  Corp.,  Cran- 
ston, R.I. 

Married:  THOMAS  H.  MORRILL  to 
Miss  Anne  Zarzecki  of  Watertown,  Mass.,  on 


Engineering  Ingenuity 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Doubling  production  doesn't  necessarily  have  to 
double  cost,  particularly  when  a  little  ingenuity  is 
applied.  This  two-spindle  attachment,  developed  by  our 
ACRACENTER  engineers,  finishes  two  identical  parts  at 
the  same  time  on  a  Heald  3-axis  N/C  contouring  ACRA- 
CENTER, yet  it  increases  the  equipment  cost  by  only  6%. 

The  two-spindle  attachment  is  used  for  numerically 
controlled  contour  milling,  drilling,  boring  and  reaming 
pairs  of  identical  parts.  The  unit  itself  can  be  aligned 
with  either  the  X  or  Y  axis,  can  be  removed  in  a  few 
minutes  and  the  ACRACENTER  again  becomes  a  single 
spindle  machine  for  larger  workpieces. 

When  it  comes  to  engineering  ingenuity  ...  it  pays 
to  come  to  Heald  .  .  .  where  metal  working  needs  meet 
new  ideas. 


CINCINNATI 

MILACRON 


Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


IE  JOURNAL 


29 


July  4,  1970.  Tom  is  an  assistant  professor 
of  physics  at  Emmanuel  College  in 
Boston.  .  .  ANDREW  D.  TERWILLEGER  to 
Miss  Priscilla  E.  Clark  of  Kinderhook,  N.Y., 
on  June  27,  1970.  Andy  is  a  traffic  opera- 
tions engineer  for  the  City  of  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  WALKER  T.  THOMPSON  to  Miss 
Gail  E.  Malmberg  of  S.  Plainfield,  N.J.,  on 
July  3,  1970.  He  is  employed  by  Union 
Carbide  Corp.  as  a  department  head,  and  the 
couple  is  residing  in  Flemington,  N.J. 

ROBERT  W.  CHAPIN  reports:  "I  have 
been  promoted  to  senior  civil  engineer  in 
the  Babylon  Office  of  the  New  York  State 
Dept.  of  Transportation.  My  wife  Nancy 
and  I  have  two  sons,  William  and  Steven, 
ages  five  and  two,  respectively.".  .  . 
NICHOLAS  A.  COTSIDAS  is  employed  in 
Worcester  and  resides  in  Framingham, 
Mass.  ..  MARVIN  B.  CRAMER  writes: 
"After  completing  an  Army  tour  as  a 
captain  in  the  chemical  corps,  I  returned  to 
Uniroyal  Chemical  in  1968.  I  compljeted 
requirements  for  an  MBA  degree  in  August, 
1970.  I  am  now  enrolled  in  the  University 
of  Connecticut  Law  School  Evening  Div. 
while  continuing  to  work  for  Uniroyal  in 
product  development."  Marvin  lives  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  RALPH  G.  JOHANSON  is 
a  sanitary  engineer  with  Watkins  & 
Associates  of  Lexington,  Ky. 


1963 

Married:  DAVID  E.  DUNKLEE,  JR.  to 
Miss  Gail  L.  Gilmore  of  Rockton,  Pa.,  on 
June  18,  1970.  David  is  an  ore  analyst  with 
Hazen  Research,  Golden,  Col.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Denver,  Col.  ..  GORDON  M. 
WARE  to  Miss  Joyce  Lee  Melendy  of  Lebec, 
Calif.,  on  August  12,  1970.  Gordon  is  a 
student  at  Portland  College,  Portland, 
Oregon. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DENNIS  W. 
HEATH,  a  daughter,  Karen  Lynn,  on  May 
18,  1970.  Dennis  is  a  production  engineer 
for  the  General  Electric  Co.'s  Circuit  Protec- 
tive Devices  Dept.  in  Plainville,  Conn. 

ROBERT  D.  BEHN  has  rejoined  the 
Ripon  Society  in  Cambridge,  Mass.,  as  its 
executive  director.  He  was  formerly  assist- 
ant to  the  governor  of  Massachusetts  for 
urban  affairs.  Bob  was  recently  named  by 
Mass.  Governor  Francis  W.  Sargent  to  head  a 
special  task  force  to  study  the  total  intercity 
transportation  picture  in  Mass.,  particularly 
relative  to  the  development  of  a  second 
jetport  within  the  state.  .  .  RICHARD  T. 
DANN  is  a  technical  writer  at  United 
Aircraft  Corp.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  He 
resides  in  Columbia,  Conn.  .  .  Dr.  DANIEL 
J.  PENDER  reports  that  he  has  accepted  a 
position  at  the  American  Hospital  of  Paris 
(France)  as  resident  physician.  .  .  STUART 
D.   BATSTONE   received  a  master's  degree 


from  Trinity  Evangelical  Divinity  School  in 
Deerfield,  III.,  this  past  June.  Stu  has  ac- 
cepted a  position  as  director  of  admissions 
at  Barrington  (R.I.)  College,  and  is  residing 
in  Seekonk,  Mass. 


1964 

Married:  MICHAEL  P.  PENTI  to  Miss 
Jean  C.  Sinnamon  of  Australia  on  July  4, 
1970,  in  Carver,  Mass.  Mike  is  employed  by 
the  J. A.  Jones  Construction  Co.  of  North 
Carolina  at  the  Salem  (Mass.)  Harbor  Power 
Plant,  and  the  couple  resides  in  Salem. 

Lt.  WILLIAM  R.  PHILLIPS  reports  that 
he  is  currently  a  lieutenant  in  the  Navy 
serving  on  the  Staff  CINCUSNAVEUR  in 
London,  England.  .  .  PETER  C.  TROMBI 
recently  received  a  PhD  degree  in  mathe- 
matics from  the  University  of  Illinois.  He 
has  accepted  a  position  as  an  adjunct  assist- 
ant professor  at  UCLA.  .  .  Air  Force  Capt. 
E.  JAMES  HANNA,  III,  is  stationed  at 
Malmstrom  AFB,  Mont.  ..  THOMAS  J. 
MODZELEWSKI  has  been  promoted  to 
resident  engineer-sales  at  Leeds  &  Northrup 
Co.,  Louisville,  Ky.  .  .  Army  1/Lt.  FRED- 
ERICK H.  SIFF  is  an  instructor  at  the  U.S. 
Military  Academy,  West  Point,  N.Y. 


1965 

Married:  RICHARD  N.  BROWN  to  Miss 
Jane  Archibald  of  Ashland,  Mass.,  on  July 
11,  1970.  Dick  is  a  research  engineer  for  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New- 
port, R.I.,  and  the  couple  resides  in  New- 
port. .  .  ROBERT  K.  DAWLESS  to  Miss 
Janice  M.  Skoda  of  W.  Mifflin,  Pa.,  on  June 
20,  1970.  The  couple  is  residing  in  Pleasant 
Hills,  Pa. 

DAVID  S.  CLAYTON  has  been  ad- 
mitted to  the  master's  program  of  the 
Stanford  Graduate  School  of  Business.  .  . 
JOHN  J.  CZARNIECKI  is  a  production 
controller  for  American  Filter  Corp.  .of 
Louisville,  Ky.,  and  is  also  pursuing  a 
master's  degree  at  Western  Kentucky  Uni- 
versity. .  .  DONALD  G.  FRANKLIN  is  an 
accountant  auditor  in  the  U.S.  General 
Accounting  Office,  Washington,  D.C.  He 
resides  in  Alexandria,  Va.  .  .  GERALD  F. 
MORRIS  has  received  his  MBA  from  the 
Harvard  Graduate  School  of  Business,  where 
he  concentrated  on  financial  analysis  and 
corporate  policy  formulation.  He  is  pres- 
ently assistant  to  the  treasurer  of  Textron 
Corp.,  Providence,  R.I.  He  also  serves  on  the 
evening  faculty  at  the  Graduate  School  of 
Babson  College.  .  .  Another  recent  recipient 
of  a  master's  degree  from  Harvard  is  PHILIP 
B.  RYAN,  who  also  received  a  master's  in 
business  administration.  He  is  employed  by 
N.F.  Bigelow  &  Co..  a  certified  public 
accountant     firm,    of    Manchester,    N.H.  .  . 


KENNETH  W.  BROWN  is  an  engineer  with 
the  Raytheon  Co.  in  Norwood,  Mass.,  and  is 
residing  in  Bellingham,  Mass.  ..JERRY 
CHIH-LI  CHEN,  MS,  is  a  research  assistant 
in  the  computer  science  department  at  the 
University  of  Illinois,  Urbana,  where  he  is 
working  toward  another  degree' in  computer 
science.  .  .  JOHN  T.  HART  is  employed  in 
the  medical  electronics  division  of  the 
Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Waltham,  Mass.  He 
makes  his  home  in  Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  JOHN 
P.  JACOBSON  is  a  graduate  student  in 
ocean  engineering  at  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts, Amherst.  ..  GEORGE  N. 
LEMMON,  III  is  a  senior  engineer  with 
Ebasco  Services,  Inc.  of  New  York  City  and 
is  residing  in  Aberdeen,  Ohio. 


1966 

Married:  JOHN  D.  CUTHBERTSON  to 
Miss  Bobbyette  McCoy  of  Sparta,  Tenn.,  on 
September  12,  1970.  John  is  a  captain  in 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  is  stationed  at 
Griffiss  AFB,  N.Y.  .  .  BRIAN  N.  BELAN- 
GER  to  Miss  Cynthia  D.  Koerner  of  Forest- 
dale,  R.I.,  on  September  12,  1970.  Brian  is 
currently  completing  the  requirements  for  a 
doctorate  degree  in  electrical  engineering  at 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island,  where  he  is 
a  graduate  teaching  assistant.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Narragansett,  R.I.  .  .  GRANT  P. 
MAIER  to  Miss  Beverly  L.  Riley  of  Frank- 
lin, Mass.,  on  June  20,  1970.  Grant  is  a 
senior  analytical  engineer  concerned  with 
heat  transfer,  compressible  flow,  and  fluid 
mechanics,  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft 
Corp.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Manchester,  Conn. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  GEORGE  R. 
STEVENS,  a  daughter,  Laura  Jane,  on  May 
27,  1970.  George  is  working  in  Raleigh, 
N.C. 

STEPHEN  E.  ANDERSON  is  a  project 
engineer  with  the  Lee  Co.,  Westbrook, 
Conn.  .  .  ASHOK  D.  SHAH,  MS,  is  a  project 
engineer  with  Atlas  Prestressing  Corp.  in 
Panorama  City,  Calif.  .  .  Employed  by  the 
Calif.  Div.  of  Highways  as  an  assistant 
highway  engineer,  is  ALBERT  J. 
DIPIETRO.  Al  lives  in  Mill  Valley,  Calif.  .  . 
STEVEN  J.  ERHARD  is  a  project  engineer 
with  Applied  Information  Industries  in 
Moorestown,  N.J.  ..  PHILIP  J.  HOPKIN- 
SON  is  residing  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  where  he 
is  employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co.  as  a 
design  engineer-electromagnetics.  Phil  re- 
cently received  an  MS  degree  from  Poly- 
technic Institute  of  Brooklyn  in  system 
science,  and  he  is  also  president  of  the 
Berkshire  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. ..  Army  2/Lt.  DONALD  E. 
McCARTHY  is  stationed  in  Washington, 
DC.  Don  received  a  bachelor  of  arts  degree 
in  zoology  from  the  University  of  Massachu- 


30 


THE  JOURNA 


setts  in  1966  and  returned  to  WPI  where  he 
completed  his  work  for  a  BS  degree  in  civil 
engineering  in  1969.  .  .  SHELTON  B. 
WICKER,  JR.  has  recently  returned  to 
civilian  life  after  serving  with  the  Army  in 
Vietnam.  He  is  employed  by  Public  Service 
Co.  of  N.H.  and  resides  in  Londonderry, 
N.H.  ..ALAN  W.  MOKSU  writes:  "I  have 
recently  completed  my  active  duty  with  the 
U.S.  Army,  and  have  accepted  a  position  as 
mechanical  engineer  with  Sanders  Associates 
in  Nashua,  N.H."  .  .  .  Raytheon  Co.  in  Bed- 
ford, Mass.,  employs  LAWRENCE  E.  PIHL 
as  an  engineer.  .  .  DONALD  M.  RUEF  is 
employed  as  a  field  engineer  by  the  General 
Electric  Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  He  resides  in 
Barrington,  N.J.  ..  JOHN  D.  SHERRICK, 
MS,  has  been  named  an  assistant  professor 
in  the  Dept.  of  Science  and  Technology  at 
Schenectady  (N.Y.)  Community  College. 
John  has  spent  the  last  six  years  at  WPI  as 
an  instructor  in  the  Electrical  Engineering 
Dept.  ..  ROBERT  S.  STERNSCHEIN  is  a 
management  trainee  with  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Binghamton,  N.Y.,  and  is  residing 
in  Endicott,  N.Y.  .  .  Cornell  University  has 
awarded  ALLEN  A.  SWEET  a  PhD  degree, 
and  he  is  now  a  senior  research  engineer 
with  the  Monsanto  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

1967 

Married:  GEORGE  B.  DODSON,  III  to 
Miss  Carol  A.  Proctor  of  Oxford,  Mass.,  on 
May  29,  1970.  George  is  an  electrical 
engineer  with  RCA  in  Burlington,  Mass.  The 
couple  resides  in  N.  Chelmsford.  .  .  DAVID 
P.  KOKALIS  to  Miss  Carolyn  Rose  Sparks 
of  Green  Hill,  R.I.,  on  July  18,  1970.  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Kokalis  are  living  in  Laurel,  Md.  .  . 
Air  Force  Lt  RENE  B.  LaPIERRE  to  Miss 
Patricia  A.  Provoda  of  Holyoke,  Mass.  on 
June  5,  1970.  Lt.  LaPierre  is  a  navigator 
stationed  at  Mather  AFB,  Sacramento, 
Calif.  ..  Army  2/Lt  ROY  P.  LINDQUIST 
to  Miss  Wendy  J.  Bisset  of  Viewfield 
Gardens,  Aberdeen,  Scotland,  on  June  26, 
1970,  in  Scotland. 

The  Aluminum  Co.  of  America  employs 
PAUL  S.  HINKLE  as  an  engineering  pur- 
chasing agent.  Paul  resides  in  Mersinna, 
N.Y.  .  .  The  City  of  Medford,  Mass.,  has 
named  CHARLES  J.  SISITSKY  as  assistant 
planning  director.  Charlie  received  a 
master's  degree  in  community  planning 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island  in 
1969.  .  .  DWIGHT  M.  BAKER  is  a  data 
processing  systems  analyst  for  the  Vermont 
State  Highway  Dept.,  Montpelier,  Vt.  .  . 
JOHN  F.  DOWNES  is  a  sales  engineer  with 
the  Fafnir  Bearing  Co.,  Detroit,  Mich.  He 
resides  in  Royal  Oak,  Mich.  .  .ANILKUMAR 
K.  KADAKIA,  MS,  is  an  assistant  project 
engineer  with  Urban  Engineers,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa.  .  .  W.  M.  Afford  of  Windsor,  Conn., 
employs  EDWARD  F.  LALLY  as  a  project 


engineer.  ..  FRANK  E.  MAGIERA  is  em- 
ployed on  the  staff  of  the  Worcester  Tele- 
gram &  Gazette  as  a  reporter.  He  resides  in 
Dudley,  Mass.  .  .  Norden  Div.  of  United 
Aircraft  Corp.  employs  JOHN  E. 
SHANAGHAN  as  a  reliability  engineer  in 
Norwalk,  Conn.  ..  GARY  K.  WILLIS  is  a 
sales  engineer  with  the  Bailey  Meter  Co., 
Boston,  Mass.  Gary  lives  in  Mansfield,  Mass. 

1968 

Married:  ROBERT  A.  BALOUSKUS  to 
Miss  Betty  J.  Sharrow  of  Ansonia,  Conn.,  on 
June  8,  1970.  Bob  is  employed  by  E.I. 
duPont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Inc.,  and  the 
couple  will  reside  in  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa.  .  . 
Army  1/Lt.  IVAN  V.  BEGGS  to  Miss 
Marlene  Friar  of  Gibsonburg,  Ohio,  on 
December  29,  1969.  Ivan  is  serving  as  an 
Army  engineer  with  the  79th  Engineer 
Battalion  in  New  Ulm,  Germany.  ..  JOHN 
C.  DEMEO  to  Miss  Suzanne  C.  Niedzwiecki 
of  New  Britain,  Conn.,  on  June  6,  1970. 
John  is  an  analytical  engineer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Corp.  in  E.  Hartford, 
Conn.,  and  the  couple  is  residing  in  Middle- 
town.  ..  GEORGE  T.  KANE  to  Miss 
Elizabeth  D.  Bah  I  of  Towanda,  Pa.,  on 
August  15,  1970.  George  is  a  technical 
assistant  at  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp., 
Bethlehem,  Pa.,  and  is  doing  graduate  work 
at  Lehigh  University.  .  .  GARY  N.  KEELER 
to  Miss  Linda  Jean  Collapietro  of  E.  Long- 
meadow,  Mass.,  on  August  1,  1970.  Gary  is 
employed  as  a  systems  programmer  in  the 
computer  center  at  WPI  while  working 
toward  his  master's  degree  in  computer 
science.  ..  JAMES  M.  WENDELL  to  Miss 
Mary  A.  Reny  of  Fairfield,  Conn.,  on  June 
20,  1970. 

ARNOLD  J.  ANTAK  has  received  a 
master  of  community  planning  degree  from 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island  and  is 
employed  by  Howard,  Needles,  Tammen  & 
Bergendoff,  consulting  engineers,  in  Boston, 
Mass.  ..JOHN  M.  BURNS  has  been  pro- 
moted to  lieutenant  junior  grade  in  the  U.S. 
Navy.  He  is  presently  stationed  in  San 
Diego,  Calif.  ..JOHN  D.  CUNIC  is  now 
working  for  Esso  Research  and  Engineering 
Co.,  Florham  Park,  N.J.  and  is  residing  in 
Dover,  N.J.  .  .  RICHARD  A.  FORMATO  is 
a  graduate  student  at  MIT  in  the  Center  for 
Space  Research  in  the  Electrical  Engineering 
Dept.  He  resides  in  Lexington,  Mass.  .  . 
Army  2/Lt.  KENNETH  A.  GMINSKI 
writes:  "After  having  a  year  and  a  half  of 
fun  while  not  completing  the  requirements 
for  my  master's  degree  in  industrial  engi- 
neering at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island,  I 
entered  active  duty  status  in  the  U.S.  Army, 
having  completed  ROTC  at  Tech.  I  spent  9 
weeks  at  the  Armor  Officer's  basic  course  at 
Ft.  Knox,  Ky.,  before  being  stationed  at  Ft. 
Polk,    La.   At    Ft.    Polk    I   am  the  executive 


officer  for  a  headquarters  company".  .  . 
WARREN  L.  ANDERSON  has  been  com- 
missioned a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  in  ceremonies  at  Lackland  AFB, 
Tex.  .  .  NICHOLAS  L.  MAURO  is  serving 
with  the  United  States  Air  Force  in  Viet- 
nam. ..  GEORGE  R.  SKOGLUND  was 
recently  awarded  a  master's  degree  in  civil 
engineering  by  Colorado  State  University, 
and  he  is  currently  working  as  a  civil 
engineer  in  Vicksburg,  Miss.  .  .  ROBERT  L. 
SMITH  is  living  in  Burlington,  Vt.,  and  is 
employed  as  a  systems  engineer  by  the  IBM 
Corp.  in  Essex  Junction,  Vt.  .  .  NORMAN 
W.  COOK,  MS,  is  a  graduate  teaching 
assistant  at  WPI  in  the  Physics  Dept.  .  . 
Raytheon  Co.  employs  RONALD  E. 
DANIELSON  as  a  systems  engineer  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  Ron  lives  in  Shrewsbury.  .  . 
MESA,  Inc.,  of  Cambridge,  Mass.,  employs 
KENNETH  D.  EKSTROM  as  an  electronics 
engineer.  .  .  Army  Capt.  DAVID  A.  FARR, 
MS,  is  an  instructor  in  the  engineering 
school  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  ..  THOMAS  A. 
GELORMINO  is  a  salesman  for  Vet's  Ex- 
plosives, Inc.,  Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  We  have 
learned  that  RICHARD  H.  LANG  is  a  design 
engineer  with  Vermont  Research  Corp.,  N. 
Springfield,  Vt.,  and  that  he  is  residing  in 
Claremont,  N.H.  .  .  Hazeltine  Corp.  of 
Braintree,  Mass.,  employs  ALLEN  PALMER 
as  an  acoustic  engineer.  .  .  ROGER  L. 
PHELPS  is  an  experimental  engineer  with 
the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Div.  of  United  Aircraft 
Corp.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  Roger  lives  in 
Andover,  Conn...  ANDREW  L.  PIRETTI 
has  been  discharged  from  the  Army  after 
serving  a  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam.  He  is 
currently  living  in  Lenox,  Mass.  .  . 
STEPHEN  M.  PYTKA  is  a  development 
engineer  with  Bell  Telephone  Labs., 
Whippany,  N.J.  ..  Air  Force  1/Lt. 
RONALD  D.  REHKAMP  is  stationed  with 
the  Air  Weather  Service,  Otis  AFB,  Mass.  .  . 
GREGORY  H.  SOVAS  is  an  engineer  with 
the  New  York  State  Dept.  of  Environmental 
Conservation,  Div.  of  Air  Resources, 
Colonie,  N.Y.  .  .  The  location  of  DAVID  J. 
WEINBERG  is  the  University  of  Maryland, 
College  Park,  Md.  David  is  a  PhD  candidate 
in  biomedical  engineering. 
1969 
Married:  FELIX  J.  BARLIK,  JR.  to  Miss 
Victoria  C.  Parkhill  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  in 
June  of  1970.  Felix  is  a  performance  design 
engineer  with  Combustion  Engineering,  Inc., 
of  Windsor,  Conn.  ..  EDWARD  A. 
MIERZEJEWSKI  to  Miss  Theresa  Tremblay 
of  E.  Albany,  Vt.,  on  August  22,  1970.  Ed 
is  a  graduate  student  at  Mass.  Institute  of 
Technology.  ..  JAMES  P.  MILLS  to  Miss 
Judith  A.  Matte  of  Uxbridge,  Mass.,  on  July 
11,  1970.  Jim  is  an  engineer  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Corp.  of  E.  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  RALPH     C.     PASTORE     to    Miss 


31 


Frances  Galgani  of  Holden,  Mass.,  on  June 
13,  1970.  The  couple  is  residing  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.,  where  Ralph  is  an  electrical 
engineer  with  United  Illuminating  Co.  .  . 
STEPHEN  O.  ROGERS  to  Miss  Heisson  of 
Fitchburg,  Mass.,  on  June  21,  1970.  Steve  is 
employed  by  E.I.  duPont  de  Nemours  & 
Co.,  Inc.  in  Gibbstown,  N.J.  .  . 
FREDERICK  G.  SPRETER  to  Miss  Susan 
C.  Anderson  of  Naugatuck,  Conn.,  on  June 
27,  1970.  Rick  is  a  sales  engineer  with  the 
Bailey  Meter  Co.,  Metairie,  La.  .  .  Army  Lt. 
HENRY  S.  SWEET  to  Miss  Susan  Bryant  of 
Centerville,  Mass.,  on  July  27,  1970.  He  is 
presently  stationed  at  the  U.S.  Army  Air 
Defense  School  at  Ft.  Bliss,  Tex.  .  .  PAUL  S. 
WOLF  to  Miss  Helen  Rosenstein  of  Cleve- 
land, Ohio,  on  July  19,  1970.  Paul  is 
employed  by  the  District  of  Columbia  Dept. 
of  Highways  and  Traffic,  Washington, 
D.C.  .  .  WILLIAM  A.  BENSCH,  MS,  to  Miss 
Anna  DeLuca  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  on  June 
13,  1970.  Bill  is  a  PhD  candidate  at  WPI  in 
the  Physics  Dept.  .  .  STEPHEN  SELINGER 
to  Miss  Barbara  A.  Bonetti  of  Milford, 
Mass.,  on  July  1 1,  1970.  Steve  is  an  engineer 
in  training  with  the  Chevrolet  Motor  Div.  of 
General  Motors  Corp.,  Warren,  Mich. 

Army  1/Lt.  THOMAS  L.  CONNELLY  is 
presently  serving  in  Vietnam.  He  recently 
received  the  Army  Commendation  Medal 
for  meritorious  service  as  assistant  post 
engineer  and  chief  of  the  buildings  and 
grounds  division  at  Carlisle  Barracks,  Pa.  .  . 
ALFRED  G.  FREEBERG  has  been  com- 
missioned a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  upon  graduation  from  officer 
training  school  at  Lackland  AFB,  Tex.  He 
has  been  assigned  to  Mather  AFB,  Calif.,  for 
navigator  training.  .  .  JAMES  W.  HAURY  is 
employed  by  the  Farrel  Co.  of  Ansonia, 
Conn.,  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  .  .  DR. 
JOHN  D.  KUPPENHEIMER,  JR.,  PhD,  is 
employed  by  WPI  as  an  assistant  professor 
of  physics.  .  .  NAVY  Ens.  PETER  E.  NOTT 
is  stationed  in  Norfolk,  Va.  .  .  Army  Lt. 
JAMES  L.  RICHEY,  JR.  is  currently  sta- 
tioned in  Vietnam.  .  .  Another  recent  grad- 
uate of  officer  training  school  at  Lackland 
AFB,  Tex.,  is  EARL  M.  SPINKS.  He  has 
been  assigned  to  Reese  AFB,  Tex.,  for  pilot 
training.  .  .  DONALD  G.  JOHNSON  is  direc- 
tor of  camping  for  the  New  England  Synod, 
Lutheran  Church  in  America,  Dedham, 
Mass.  .  .  STEPHEN  H.  LEGOMSKY  is  an 
actuarial  assistant  with  John  Hancock  Mu- 
tual Life  Insurance  Co.,  Boston,  Mass... 
NAVNIT  M.  PANCHAL,  MS,  is  a  project 
engineer  with  Imperial  Knife  Co.,  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  .  .  Northeastern  University  em- 
ploys RICHARD  A.  SHAPIRO  as  a  teaching 
assistant  in  their  Physics  Dept.  .  .  DAVID  W. 
SWENSON  is  employed  in  Burlington,  Mass. 
by  RCA  in  their  Aerospace  Div.  as  an 
associate  member,  technical  staff.  Dave  lives 
in  Acton,  Mass. 


1970 

Married:  GERRY  A.  BLODGETT  to 
Miss  Katherine  A.  Packard  of  Whitefield, 
N.H.,  on  June  13,  1970.  ..  STEPHEN  R. 
CROSBY  to  Miss  Sandra  D.  Myrick  of  S. 
Windsor,  Conn.,  in  June  of  1970.  Steve  is  a 
graduate  student  at  WPI...  DAVID  B. 
DAMER  to  Miss  Cynthia  E.  Holt  of  Fair- 
field, Conn.,  on  June  27,  1970.  Dave  is 
employed  as  a  junior  engineer  by  the  United 
Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  . 
HOWARD  V.  GOLDBERG  to  Miss  Lynn  P. 
Breitbord  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on  June  14, 
1970.  Howard  is  employed  by  Ledgemont 
Laboratory,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  JAMES  G. 
HANNOOSH  to  Miss  Linda  A.  Rugg  of 
Marlboro,  Mass.  Jim  is  a  graduate  student  in 
the  Mechanical  Engineering  Dept.  at  MIT.  .  . 
ERIC  W.  HENRY  to  Miss  Madeline  C. 
Hunter  of  E.  Brunswick,  N.J.,  on  August  8, 
1970.  Eric  is  employed  by  Whitman  & 
Howard,  Inc.,  Boston,  Mass.,  as  a  sanitary 
engineer.  .  .  ALAN  M.  KOLACZKOWSKI  to 
Miss  Marianne  F.  Sweck  of  Woonsocket, 
R.I.,  on  August  8,  1970.  Alan  is  a  graduate 
assistant  at  Penn.  State.  .  .  PETER  F. 
LALOR  to  Miss  Mariellen  J.  Fitzgerald  of 
Worcester,  Mass.,  on  March  15,  1970.  Peter 
is  a  graduate  student  in  the  Metallurgy  Dept. 
at  the  University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  JAMES 
A.  METZLER  to  Miss  Linda  M.  Simmons  of 
N.  Attleboro,  Mass.,  on  January  16,  1970. 
He  is  employed  as  a  mathematician  by  the 
government.  .  .  JOHN  C.  SEXTON  to  Miss 
Karen  F.  Robidoux  of  Plainville,  Conn.,  on 
June  20,  1970.  John  is  a  graduate  student  at 
UCLA.  ..  ROBERT  J.  GRILLO  to  Miss 
Rebecca  L.  Crosby  of  W.  Acton,  Mass.,  on 
June  20,  1970.  Bob  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  in  the  city 
planning  department.  .  .  ROBERT  C. 
KEENAN  to  Miss  Gail  M.  Powell  of  Oxford, 
Mass.,  on  January  31,  1970.  Bob  is  an 
engineer  with  Western  Electric,  N.  Andover, 
Mass.,  and  the  couple  is  residing  in  Methuen, 
Mass.  .  .  CLARK  A.  KNICKERBOCKER  to 
Miss  Anne  Thoubboron  of  Pittsfield,  Mass., 
on  September  5,  1970.  Clark  is  located  in 
Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.,  as  a  sales  trainee  with 
Hooker  Chemical  Corp.  .  .  JOHN  F. 
MALLEY  to  Miss  Judith  A.  Szulkowski  of 
Terryville,  Conn.,  on  June  27,  1970.  John  is 
a  graduate  teaching  assistant  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin  in  the  electrical  engi- 
neering department.  .  .  PAUL  E.  MEDEI- 
ROS  to  Miss  Cheryl  J.  Harris  of  N.  Fal- 
mouth, Mass.,  on  July  11,  1970.  Paul  is 
working  for  the  New  York  State  Dept.  of 
Transportation  in  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.,  as  a 
junior  engineer.  .  .  GEORGE  R.  SEAVER  to 
Miss  Marcia  J.  Armstrong  of  Plymouth, 
Mass.,  on  June  12,  1970.  George  is  a 
production  engineer  with  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford,  Conn.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Glastonbury,  Conn.  .  .  JAMES  W. 
SMALL  to  Miss  Suzanne  T.   LeDoux  of  E. 


Brookfield,  Mass.,  on  June  14,  1970.  Jim  is 
a  graduate  student  at  Cornell  University, 
Ithaca,  N.Y. 

DAVID  D.  ANDRE  is  a  mathematics 
teacher  at  Northbridge  (Mass.)  High 
School.  ..  ROBERT  A.  ANSCHUTZ  is  a 
graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  JAMES  F. 
BAGAGLIO  has  been  sworn  into  the  Coast 
Guard  and  has  gone  through  basic  training 
at  Cape  May,  N.J.  .  .  ERNEST  A. 
CARROLL  is  a  second  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army.  .  .  The  University  of  Illinois  has 
DENNIS  F.  DAMICO  as  a  graduate  assist- 
ant. ..  PETER  J.  DENONCOURT  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Goodyear  Tire  & 
Rubber  Co.  and  is  residing  in  Concord, 
Mass...  ANDREW  M.  DONALDSON  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Stanford  University.  .  . 
In  the  primary  elections  in  Rockland,  Me., 
DAVID  F.  EMERY  unseated  the  incumbent 
candidate  for  the  GOP  nomination  for  the 
Rockland  House  seat.  .  .  GARY  F.  FRITZ  is 
employed  by  the  Edgartown  (Mass.)  School 
System  as  a  math  teacher  in  their  junior 
high  school.  .  .  JOHN  H.  GARRITY,  III  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Maine's  Yankee 
Atomic  Power  Plant.  .  .  RONALD  J. 
GRZELAK  was  commissioned  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  on  August  13 
upon  successful  completion  of  a  six-week 
reserve  officer  training  corps  program  at 
Indiantown  Gap.,  Pa.  .  .  Also  commissioned 
in  the  same  ceremonies  was  JOSEPH  D. 
HANSEL.  ..  Raytheon  Co.  in  Sudbury, 
Mass.,  employs  PAUL  D.  HIMOTTU.  .  . 
HARRIS  C.  HOWLAND  is  a  field  engineer 
with  the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Baltimore, 
Md.  .  .  Connecticut  Light  &  Power  Co.  em- 
ploys DANA  L.  LOUTH.  .  .  Continuing  at 
WPI  working  toward  an  advanced  degree  is 
JOHN  J.  LYONS.  .  .  TIMOTHY  J.  MACKIE 
has  accepted  a  position  with  Eastman 
Kodak  Co...  JEFFREY  C.  MANTY  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Bethlehem  Steel 
Corp.  .  .  General  Electric  Co.  has  hired 
MASON  B.  PECK.  .  .  An  employee  of 
Camp,  Dresser  &  McKee  is  ALAN  S. 
PRUCNAL.  .  .  A  master's  degree  candidate 
is  DAVID  A.  QUAGLINI,  JR.,  who  is 
located  at  Penn  State.  .  .  BRUCE  S.  ROBIN- 
SON has  accepted  a  position  with  Western 
Electric  Co.  .  .  LOUIS  W.  ZITNAY  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Turner  Construc- 
tion Co.  of  New  York  City.  .  .  PHILLIPS  C. 
CROCKER  is  a  junior  engineer  with  the 
New  York  State  Dept.  of  Transportation 
and  is  located  in  Poughkeepsie.  .  .  WILLIAM 
J.  HAKKINEN  is  a  production  development 
engineer  with  Chas.  Pfizer  &  Co.,  Inc.,  of 
Groton,  Conn.  He  is  living  in  New 
London.  .  .  The  Dow  Chemical  Co.  has 
announced  that  DAVID  L.  VALCORE  has 
joined  their  company  and  is  with  their 
chemical  engineering  laboratory.  Midland, 
Mich. 


32 


THE  JOURNAL 


DIRECTORY  OF  CHAPTER  OFFICERS 


Berkshire 

President,  P.  J.  Hopkinson,  '66,  65  Clydesdale  Dr..  Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Secretary-Treasurer,  R.  K.  Quattrochi,  '49,  1150  Holmes  Rd., 

Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Council,  F.  J.  Gamari,  '54,  20  Sand  Springs  Rd.,  Williamstown,  Mass.  01  267 

Boston 

President,  W.J.  Charow,  '49,  45  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  02181 
Vice  President,  J.  W.  Lebourveau,  '44. 174  Washington  Ave., 

Needham,  Mass.  02192 
Secretary,  R.  D.  Behn,'63,  90  Ellery  St.,  Apt.  14,  Cambridge,  Mass.  02138 
Treasurer,  T.  B.  Newman,  Jr.,  '64,  Emerson  Gardens,  Apt.  1 1 , 

Lexington,  Mass.  02173 
Council,  E.  C.  Hoglund,'27,  26  Willowdale  Rd.,  Winchester,  Mass.  01890 
E.  Lagerholm, '44,  100  Memorial  Dr.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  02142 
J.  R.  Corf,  '46,  30  Thornberry,  Winchester,  Mass.  01 890 
R.  D.  Behn,  '63,  see  above. 

Central  New  York 

President,  R.  W.  Swanson, '51 ,  301  Windsor  Dr.,  DeWitt,  N.Y.  13214 
Secretary.  N.T.  Buske. '59,  220  Hickok  Ave.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  13206 
Council,  D.  W.  Prosser, '61,  6  Florence  St.,  Auburn,  N.Y.  13021 

Chicago 

President,  D.  A.  Johnson,  '60,  21 10  Lilac  Terrace,  Arlington  Heights,  III.  60004 
Council,  R.  A.  Berg,  '59, 1433  Fairway  Dr.,  Lake  Forest.  III.  60045 

Cincinnati 

President,  R.  W.  Parks,  '41 ,  3736  Ashworth  Dr.,  Apt.  A,  Cincinnati,  Ohio  45208 

Cleveland-Akron 

President,  R.  D.  Popp, '54,  515  Parkside  Dr.,  Bay  Village,  Ohio  44140 
Vice  President,  R.  B.  Sundheim,  '58,  3642  Traynham  Rd., 

Shaker  Heights,  Ohio  44120 
Council,  L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34, 1334  Cleveland  Heights  Blvd., 

Cleveland  Heights,  Ohio  441  21 

Connecticut  Valley 

President,  L.  E.  Stratton,  '39,  74  Carlisle  St.,  Springfield,  Mass.  01 109 
Vice  President,  D.J.  Schulz, '61,  Granville  Rd.,  Southwick,  Mass.  01077 
Secretary,  P.  J.  Brown,  '50,  50  Van  Horn  St.,  W.  Springfield.  Mass.  01089 
Treasurer,  S.  P.  Mozden,  Jr.,  '63,  55  Lee  St.,  E.  Longmeadow,  Mass.  01 028 
Council,  P.  E.  Evans,  '48,  69  Clairmont  St.,  Longmeadow,  Mass.  01461 
A.  L.  Brownlee,  '33,  Feeding  Hills  Rd.,  Westfield,  Mass.  01 085 

Detroit 

President,  E.  H.  Judd,'50,  1231  Linden  St.,  Plymouth,  Mich.  48170 

Eastern  Connecticut 

President,  H.  N.  Harris,  Jr.,  '57,  32  Corey  Lane,  Niantic,  Conn.  06357 
Vice  President,  N.  M.  Carignan,  '58,  568  Cow  Hill  Rd.,  Mystic,  Conn.  06335 
Secretary-Treasurer,  V.  P.  Dufault,  '62,  28  Sequin  Rd.,  Noank,  Conn.  06340 
Council,  J.  M.  Danis,  '67,  128  Providence  St.,  Taftville,  Conn.  06380 

Hartford 

President,  J.  F.  Barresi,  '60,  28  Stagecoach  Rd.,  Windsor,  Conn.  06095 
Vice  President,  P.  R.  Cultrera, '62,  Bunker  Hill  Rd.,  Canton  Center,  Conn.  06020 
Secretary,  C.  H.  Bidwell,  Jr.,  '57,  21 9  Naubuc  Ave.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn  061 1 8 
Treasurer,  W.  L.  Brown,  '60,  3  Redstone,  Weatogue,  Conn.  06089 
Council,  E.  C.  Campbell,  '43,  1  5  Fairfield  Rd.,  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  061 1 7 
G.  F.  Crowther,  '37,  20  Bates  St.,  Hartford,  Conn.  06114 

Hudson-Mohawk 

President,  J.  J.  Osvald, '65, 1138  Hendrickson  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  12308 
Vice  President,  H.  A.  Christopher,  '61 ,  1 05  Acorn  Dr.,  Scotia,  N.Y.  1 2302 
Secretary-Treasurer,  B.Sinder,  '64,1 01  Front  St.,  Apt.  2,  Schenectady,  N.Y.1 2305 
Delegate,  B.  A.  Podberesky,  '58,  876  Whitney  Dr.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  1  2309 

Los  Angeles 

President,  P.  C.  Yankauskas,'42, 4508  Blackthorne  Ave.,  Long  Beach,  Calif.  90808 
Vice  President.  D.  R.  Bates,  '40,  2999  E.  Ocean  Blvd.,  Apt.  *  1 1 20. 
Long  Beach,  Calif.  90803 

New  Haven 

President,  J.  J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46C,  255  Riverside  Dr.,  Mt.  Carmel,  Conn.  06518 
Vice  President,  H.  S.  Altenburg,  '65,  28  Remer  St.,  Ansonia,  Conn.  06401 
Secretary-Treasurer,  N.  J.  Barone,'65,  266  Chapel  St.,  Milford,  Conn.   06465 
Council,  C.  W.  McElroy, '34,  25  Bear  Path  Rd.,  Hamden,  Conn.  06514 
J.  M.  Halloran,  Jr., '40,  63  Mowry  St.,  Hamden,  Conn.  06518 

New  York 

President,  S.  L.  Vrusho,  '57,  IBM  Corp.,  2  Penn  Plaza,  New  York,  N.Y.  1 0001 
Vice  President,  J.  J.  Gushaw,  '35,  999  Roxbury  Dr.,  Westbury,  N.Y.  11 590 
Treasurer,  G.  P.  Vittas,  '63,  2101  Voorhies  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  1 1235 
Council,  J.  A.  Birch,  '34, 1 534  Wellington  Rd.,  Merrick,  N.Y.  11 566 
S.J.  Spencer, '49,  5  Normandy  Rd.,  Larchmont,  N.Y.  10538 
T.  B.  Graham, '38,  15  Circle  Rd„  Scarsdale,  N.Y.  10583 


North  Shore 

President,  D.  E.  Snay,  '63,  Queensland  Rd.,  N.  BiMerica,  Mass.  01862 

Vice  President.  D.  R.  Ekstrom,  63,  16  Hathaway  Ave.,  Beverly,  Mass.  01915 

Secretary-Treasurer.  W.  C.  Goodchild,  '40,  1  Woodbury  Dr., 

Beverly,  Mass.  01915 
Council,  J.  M.  Szymanski,  '62,  Paradise  Travel  Service,  Inc.,  127  Harvard  St., 

Allston,  Mass.  02134 

Northern  California 
President,  F.  D.  Riley, '63, 10435  Dempster  Ave.,  Cupertino,  Calif.  95014 
Secretary,  J.  A.  Alfieri,  '59,22465  Rancho  Ventura,  %  B,  Cupertino,  Calif.  95014 

Northern  New  Jersey 

President,  S.  K.  Lee,  '60,  317  Lawn  Ridge  Rd.,  Orange,  N.  J.  07050 
Vice  President,  V.  E.  Kohman,  '43.  32  Summit  Rd.,  Verona,  N.J.  07044 
Vice  President,  P.  W.  Bayliss,  '60,  40  Molly  Stark  Dr.,  Morristown,  N.J.  07960 
Secretary,  W.  R.  Hopkins,  '65,  37  W.  Ruby  Ave.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J.  07650 
Treasurer,  H.  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56,  74  Golf  St.,  W.  Long  Branch,  N.J.  07764 
Council,  N.  J.  Taupeka,  '58,  105  Stony  Hill  Rd.,  Eatontown,  N.J.  07724 
J.  L.  Reid,  '51,  31  Spring  Garden  Dr.,  Madison,  N.J.  07940 

Pacific  Northwest 

President.  P.  J  Topelian,  '30,  443  160th  Ave.,  S.E.,  Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 
Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  M.  Lloyd,  II, '51, 15714  S.E.  26th  St., 
Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 

Philadelphia 

President,  J.  F.  Howe,  Jr., '57,  2217  Winding  Way,  Drexel  Hill,  Pa.  19026 

Pittsburgh 

President,  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55.  804  Ella  St.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15216 
Vice  President,  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36,  21 2  Connecting  Rd„  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1 5228 
Secretary-Treasurer,  G.  B.  Brown,  '55, 140  Sunset  Dr.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1  5235 
Council,  L.  H.  Longton,  Jr., '49,  120  Watt  Lane,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15221 

Rhode  Island 

President,  J.  K.  Karalekas,  '58,  74  Ferncrest  Dr.,  E.  Providence,  R.I.  02914 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.  F.  DiZoglio,'60,  RFD  1 ,  Box  451 ,  N.  Scituate,  R.I.  02857 
Council.  W.  R.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58,  37  Fir  Glade  Dr.,  Warwick,  R.I.  02886 

Rochester-Genesee 

President,  R.  P.  Kostka,'63, 14  Bryn  Mawr  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14624 
Vice  President.  L.  J.  Rossi,  '61,  214  Elmgrove  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14624 
Secretary-Treasurer,  C.E.Hunt,  Jr.,  '34,  8  Birmingham  Dr.,  Rochester,  N.Y  14618 
Council,  A.  R.  Hunderup,  '56,  625  Shadyglen  Circle,  Webster,  N.Y.  14580 

Southeastern 

President,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  557  E.  Wesley  Rd.,  N.E.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  30305 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.  C.  Bragg,  '24,  595  McAfee  St.,  N.W.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  3031 3 
Council,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  see  above. 

Washington 

President,  K.  A.  Homon,'62,  7704  Miller  Fall  Rd.,  Rockville,  Md.  20855 
Vice  President,  D.  M.  Cornell,  '60,  9  N.  Summit  Dr.,  Apt.  302, 

Gaithersburg,  Md   20760 
Secretary,  C.  C.  Clark,  '45,  23  Seminole  Ave.,  Baltimore,  Md.  21228 
Treasurer.  H.  Richard  Freeman,  '61,  236  Hannes  St.,  Silver  Spring,  Md.  20901 

Western  New  York 

President,  K.  R.  Berggren,  Jr., '49,  685  Porterville  Rd.,  E.Aurora,  N.Y.  14052 
Vice  President,  J.  H.Geffken,  '63,379  Fruitwood  Terr.,  Williamsville,  N.Y.  14221 
Secretary-Treasurer,  J.  M.  Kelly,  Jr.,  '63,  1  21  Old  Farm  Circle, 

Williamsville,  N.Y.  14221 
Council,  F.  W.  Swan,  Jr., '35,  128  Church  St.,  E.Aurora,  N.Y.  14052 

Wilmington 

President,  H.  F.  DeCarli,  '52,  2405  Landon  Dr.,  Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Ferrari,  '51 ,  2404  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Vice  President,  J.  D.  Lojewski,  '52,  2403  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Secretary,  D.  A.  Kujala,  '52,  241 1  Sweet  Briar  Rd.,  Tarleton, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Treasurer,  R.  F.  Smith,  III, '61,  3351  Altamont  Dr.,  Devonshire, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Council,  P.  Michelman,  '51 ,  241 0  Lori  Lane  South,  Tarleton, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 

Worcester 

President,  F.  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53,  F.  W.  Madigan  Co.,  54  Mason  St., 

Worcester,  Mass.  01610 
Vice  President,?,.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56,  WPI,  Admissions  Office, 

Worcester,  Mass.  01609 
Secretary,  J.  H.  McCabe,  '68,  9  Brownell  Circle,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 
Treasurer,  C.  W.  Mello,  '61 ,  6  Orrison  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 609 
Council,  A.  J.  Ruksnaitis,  '53,  32  Saxon  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
N.  M.  Gamache,  '38, 1 0  Midland  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
C.  W.  Mello,  '61,  see  above. 

R.  P.  Engvall,  '57,  30  Conger  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
N.  J.  Crowley,  '50,  26  Willard  Ave.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 
S.  R.  Lindberg,  '51 ,  98  Beechwood  Rd.,  Holden,  Mass.  01 520 
P.  F.  Seibold,  '50,  6  Olean  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 


NORTON 


...pioneering 

pollution  solutions 

through 

ENVIRONMENTAL 
ENGINEERING 


Pollution  of  our  environment  is  a  continuing 
threat  to  our  health,  safety,  economic  welfare  and 
aesthetic  enjoyment.  Survival  dictates  that  our 
environmental  resources  must  be  protected  from 
any  acts  which  unreasonably  lessen  their  qualities 
and  adversely  affect  their  level  of  usefulness. 

While  considerable  progress  has  been  made 
in  pollution  control,  our  resources  will  be  further 
impaired  by  population  growth,  commercial  expan- 
sion, chemical  usages  and  other  technological 
advancements. 

As  a  member  of  the  Water  Pollution  Control 
Federation,  the  American  Water  Works  Associa- 
tion, and  the  New  England  Water  Works  Associa- 
tion, NORTON  COMPANY  is  pledged  to  support 
sound  pollution  control  measures  and  contribute 
its  efforts  to  develop  economical  and  effective 
means  of  control. 

And  we  mean  just  that.  Whether  it  be  land, 
water,  or  air,  NORTON  COMPANY  helps  environ- 
mental engineers  keep  it  clean.  NORTON  abrasives 
are  employed  in  systems  which  reduce  solid  wastes 
to  facilitate  disposal,  incineration,  or  reclamation. 
NORTON  porous  ceramic  filtration  products  dif- 
fuse the  air  which  purifies  billions  of  gallons  of 
sewage  daily  in  many  metropolitan  cities.  NORTON 
fume  scrubbers  keep  dust  vapor,  and  noxious  fumes 
from  polluting  the  air  near  industrial  plants. 

But  most  importantly,  NORTON  COMPANY 
salutes  the  environmental  engineering  fraternity 
irverywlieri!  for  whatovoi  pari  lhe\  pla\  in  this 
profound  program.  Norton  Company,  Worcester. 
Massachusetts. 


Wyman- 
research 
center 

opened 
in  1971 


This  new  research  center,  located  on 

Grafton  Street,  Millbury,  was  opened 

in  January.  This  new  facility 

reaffirms  Wyman-Gordon's  position  as  the  trail 

blazer  in  applying  advanced  metallurgical 

science  to  metalworking  problems.  Wyman- 

Gordon,  unique  in  its  technical  leadership, 

operated  the  first  metallurgical  laboratory  in 

the  Forging  Industry.  Now  these  modern 

facilities  add  new  depth  and  dimension  to  the 

Company's  continuing  research  and  development 

program  designed  to  solve  current  problems  and  to 

probe  the  future  for  new  processes,  new  markets. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


Worcester  •  Gralton  •  Millbury 
Forgings  of  all  sizes  and  metals 


In  This  Issue 


journal 


'01.74,  no.  2 
pring,  1971 


I.  Russell  Kay 

iditor 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
)y  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright  ©  1 971  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
\\\  rights  reserved. 


i/V.P.I.  Alumni  Association  Officers 

"resident:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40; 
/ice  Presidents: 
JR.  R.  Gabarro, '51; 
;B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
iW.  B.  Zepp,  '42; 
Assistant  Alumni  Secretary: 
*S.  J.  Hebert,  '66; 
Past  President:  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36; 
Executive  Committee, 
Members-at- Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  C.  C.  Bonin,  '38; 
FF.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  L  Polizzotto,  '70; 

Fund  Board: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Chairman; 

R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  G.  F.  Crowther,  '37; 

L  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,'35;  A.Kalenian,'33; 
LL.  A.  Penoncello,  '66. 

Alumni  Office  Staff 

Assistant  to  the  Alumni  Secretary, 

Office  Manager:  Norma  F.  Larson; 

Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland; 
Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter; 
Clerk-Typist:  Cecile  Savageau. 


A  Letter  FROM  the  Editor page  tWo 

The  Education  of  the  Idiot  Box  page  three 

What's  being  done  with  television  at  WPI,  by  Kenneth  Scott  and  Russell  Kay. 

On  to  the  WPI  Plan page  seven 

An  interview  with  Dean  of  Undergraduate  Programs  William  R.  Grogan. 

The  Miseducation  of  the  Artist  page  eleven 

A  prize-winning  essay  dealing  with  the  conflict  between  the  educational  system  and  the 
artistic  temperament,  by  Joseph  C.  Landwehr,  '71 . 

The  Alumni  Fund         page  fourteen 

A  progress  report  on  this  year's  campaign. 

Engineering  —  Careers  in  Trouble? page  eighteen 

Olle  Halttunen  discusses  the  job  outlook  and  describes  a  new  placement  counseling  service 
offered  to  alumni. 

Boynton  Hall  page  twenty 

A  photographic  essay  by  Russell  Kay 

Where  We  Stand  page  twenty-four 

A  look  at  the  problems  of  higher  education  today,  and  how  WPI  compares  with  other 
schools. 


Ellery  B.  Paine,  '97 

Music  Hath  Charms  .  .  .  and  transistors  and  IC's  too 

Alan  R.  Pearlman,  '48,  and  his  electronic  synthesizer. 


page  thirty-seven 


page  thirty -nine 


DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes         27 

Varsity  Review 30 

In  Memory 32 

Your  Class  and  Others 36 

Directory  of  Chapter  Officers 45 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  in  the  Fall,  Winter, 
Spring,  and  Summer.  Entered  as  second  class 
matter  July  26,  1918,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  under  the  act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Subscription  two  dollars  per 
year.  Postmaster:  Please  send  form  3579  to 
Alumni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


A  Letter  FROM  the  Editor 

lHIS  ISSUE  marks  a  new  phase  in  the  history  of  the  WPI  Journal.  The 
production  of  the  Journal  is  now  being  handled  by  the  WPI  Public  Relations 
Office  in  connection  with  the  Alumni  Association.  A  new  office  for  the 
magazine  —  and  a  new  editor.  As  the  new  Director  of  Publications  at  WPI,  I 
will  have  responsibility  over  the  detail  work  that  goes  into  each  issue. 
Working  with  me  will  be  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  Assistant  Alumni  Secretary 
and  previous  editor;  Walter  Dennen,  chairman  of  the  Alumni  Publications 
Committee;  and  the  staff  of  the  Alumni  Association,  who  will  continue  to 
compile  the  Class  Notes  and  various  other  sections  of  the  magazine. 

Over  the  next  few  issues,  we  intend  to  make  a  concerted  effort  to 
improve  the  readability  and  appearance  of  the  magazine.  We  are  working 
with  the  printer  to  upgrade  the  quality  of  reproduction  of  photographs.  We 
are  going  to  try  to  increase  both  the  quantity  and  interest  of  the  news  about 
your  fellow  alumni.  One  of  the  ways  that  you  can  help  us  serve  you  better  is 
to  let  us  know  what  you  think  of  what  we're  doing.  We  would  like  to 
institute,  on  at  least  an  occasional  basis;  a.  Letters  section  where  we  can  give 
expression  to  your  reactions  to  articles,  alumni  activities,  and  campus 
happenings.  It's  your  turn  now. 

I  feel  that  you  should  know  a  bit  about  your  new  editor  especially  since 
(a)  I'm  not  a  WPI  alumnus,  and  (b)  my  background  is  not,  in  fact, 
particularly  technical.  More  complete  details  are  given  on  page  28,  so  let  me 
just  say  here  that  I  have  been  an  editor,  photographer,  and  designer  since  I 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Chicago  in  1965. 

I  came  to  WPI  from  Northwestern  University,  so  I  have  no 
sentimental  attachments  to  WPI  to  influence  or  distort  my  first  impressions 
of  the  campus.  I  am  frankly  excited  about  the  atmosphere  of  innovation  and 
getting-down-to-the-things-that-really-count  that  I  find  here.  The  students 
here  reflect  a  concern  for  the  social,  environmental,  and  human  problems 
that  one  is  accustomed  to  seeing  at  a  liberal-arts  school;  but  they  do  this 
from  a  solid  base  of  technical  knowledge  —  knowledge  of  technology  —  that 
is  so  often  lacking  in  liberal-arts  students,  and  which  gives  them  unique 
capabilities  to  work  for  meaningful  change.  .  .  real  progress,  not  just  higher 
technology  and  fancier  gadgets.  Furthermore,  the  WPI  PLAN  has  got  to  be 
one  of  the  most  important  things  happening  these  days  in  the  entire  field  of 
scientific  and  technical  education  —  if  not  education  in  general.  I  am  proud 
to  be  associated  with  WPI,  and  you  should  be  too. 

Finally,  let  me  repeat  that  this  is  your  magazine,  and  we  want  to  hear 
from  you  about  your  reactions  to  it. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI 


the  use  of  television  at  WFI 


by  Kenneth  E.  Scott  and  Russell  Kay 


D. 


NE  OF  THE  MORE  INTERESTING  and  exciting 
teaching  innovations  on  the  WPI  campus  has  been  the 
introduction  of  television,  both  live  closed-circuit  and 
videotape.  It  all  began  in  the  fall  of  1968  as  a  practical 
solution  to  the  problem  of  scheduling  freshman  chemistry 
lectures  for  the  650  entering  students  —  a  much  larger 
freshman  class  than  ever  before.  With  no  single  hall  both 
large  enough  and  properly  equipped,  closed-circuit  tele- 
vision was  the  best  answer.  Now,  chemistry  lectures 
originating  in  Kinnicutt  Hall  may  be  viewed  in  other  lecture 
halls  on  campus,  which  are  connected  by  coaxial  cable. 
Each  hall,  including  the  main  lecture  hall,  is  equipped  with 
i  number  of  TV  monitors.  Besides  the  fact  that  more 
students  can  attend  each  lecture,  all  students  can  now 
better  observe  the  lecturer's  demonstrations  and  experi- 
ments, thanks  to  the  camera's  close-up  capabilities,  regard- 
less of  where  in  the  hall  they  sit. 

The  use  of  TV  on  campus  primarily  as  a  prerecorded 
medium  began  about  the  same  time.  Dr.  Richard  Stewart, 
then  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Department,  was 
experimenting  with  the  preparation  of  tapes  for  his  courses 
in  thermodynamics.  Dr.  Stewart  left  WPI  in  June  1969. 
Prof.  Kenneth  E.  Scott  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering 
Department,  who  was  interested  in  using  television  to 
supplement  his  courses  in  control  engineering,  decided  to 
take  up  where  Dr.  Stewart  had  left  off. 

He  decided  at  that  point  that  WPI  should  stick  with  Vi 
inch  videotape.  With  an  initial  equipment  budget  of  $3500, 
[Prof.  Scott  purchased  a  Sony  videocorder,  two  cameras, 
and  ancillary  equipment.  This  supplemented  the  single 
recorder  and  camera  (now  obsolete)  that  Dr.  Stewart  had 
used.  A  tiny  office  in  Higgins  Laboratories  was  turned  into 
a  "studio,"  and  Prof.  Scott  began  producing  tapes  for  his 
courses. 


Kenneth  E.   Scott  is  Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering.  Russell 
Kay  is  Director  of  Publications. 


The  success  of  this  small  venture,  together  with 
increased  skill  and  facility  at  handling  the  equipment  and 
tape  editing,  led  Prof.  Scott  to  offer  help  to  anyone  on 
campus  who  wanted  to  try  using  television  in  his  teaching. 
Several  faculty  members  took  him  up  on  this,  and  Prof. 
Scott  has  produced  some  30  different  tapes,  ranging  from 
the  wrestling  team  in  action  to  "How  to  Operate  the 
Radiation  Analyzer." 

THE  HOW-TO  TAPES 

This  last  typifies  a  large  class  of  tapes,  which  provide 
personalized  visual  instruction  in  the  operation  and  use  of  a 
particular  piece  of  equipment.  Perhaps  the  most  successful 
and  most  used  tape  to  date  teaches  the  use  of  the  TR-20 
analog  computer,  which  is  used  by  all  students  taking 
courses  in  control  engineering.  Although  instruction 
manuals  are  available  and  each  student  has  had  instruction 
in  programming  and  operating  the  computer,  a  number  of 
questions  invariably  arise,  particularly  in  such  details  as 
patching  the  boards,  setting  potentiometers,  etc.  The 
videotape  answers  all  these  questions,  and  a  television 
monitor  and  playback  unit  are  always  available  in  the 
laboratory  next  to  the  computer.  A  student  can  choose  to 
view  the  tape  just  before  he  begins  patching  a  board  and/or 
operating  the  computer,  or  he  can  go  ahead  and  get  started 
and  then  use  the  tape  to  find  the  answer  to  a  particular 
question  that  may  come  up  as  he  proceeds.  The  tape  is 
indexed  so  that  a  student  doesn't  have  to  view  the  entire 
reel  to  answer  a  single  question  or  to  review  a  small  point. 
The  student  merely  uses  the  fast-forward  or  rewind  controls 
to  select  the  particular  segment  of  the  tape  he  needs. 

Instructors  are  available  during  normal  hours  to  help 
students  with  the  computer.  The  videotape,  however, 
doesn't  need  sleep,  or  even  overtime  pay,  and  the  avail- 
ability of  the  tape  to  the  students  has  now  allowed  the  ME 


I  E  WPI  JOURNAL 


department  to  keep  the  computer  laboratory  open  24  hours 
a  day,  thereby  increasing  the  efficiency  of  use  of  the 
computer  and  also  giving  each  student  more  opportunity  to 
use  it. 

Similar  tapes  have  been  done  for  the  use  of  the  teletype 
computer  terminal  and  the  029  keypunch. 

By  far  the  most  ambitious  production  of  this  type  that 
has  been  done  is  "An  Introduction  to  the  Gordon  Library." 
No  longer  is  it  necessary  for  the  librarians  to  conduct  group 
after  group  of  freshmen  on  an  introductory  tour  of  the 
library  and  its  facilities.  Instead  they  are  shown  the  tape, 
which  was  shot  on  location.  An  additional  advantage  to 
both  the  library  staff  and  the  students  is  that  the  tape  is 
always  available  for  viewing.  Additional  tapes  for  the 
library,  such  as  "How  to  Use  the  Chemical  Abstracts,"  are 
in  process  or  planned. 

All  tapes  are  used  by  students  on  a  "hands-on"  basis. 
Although  there  were  some  initial  reservations  about  pos- 
sible damage  to  the  equipment,  these  were  completely 
groundless.  At  present  there  are  two  viewing  stations  on 
campus:  Higgins  Lab  and  Gordon  Library. 


STUDENT  USE 

Students  are  becoming  more  and  more  interested  in  using 
the  television  facilities  on  their  own.  Over  a  year  ago, 
students  enrolled  in  the  English  Department's  course  in  oral 
communications,  initiated  by  themselves  the  taping  of  oral 
presentations  at  scheduled  class  times.  Today  the  use  of 
television  is  an  integral  part  of  the  course,  as  important  as 
was  the  audio  tape  recorder  before  it.  Each  student  is  able 
to  view  his  own  presentation  with  his  instructor,  and  the 
instructor's  critiques  are  then  especially  helpful. 


In  another  area,  a  group  of  students  taking  a  history 
course  prepared  a  short  documentary  tape.  They  found  that 
this  novel  effort,  if  not  exactly  painless,  was  far  more 
rewarding  and  motivating  than  a  term  paper  or  a  test  could 
have  been.  Several  students  spent  four  days  during  the 
midterm  recess  preparing  a  televised  political  advertisement 
supporting  their  candidate.  This  was  done  as  part  of  a 
course  in  government. 


TV  AND  THE  TEACHER 

But  the  most  far-reaching  uses  of  television,  right  now,  are 
by  the  faculty.  Prof.  Harit  Majmudar  of  the  Electrical 
Engineering  Department  put  on  tape  all  the  lectures  for  his 
fall  course  on  power  systems.  The  tapes  are  now  available  in 
the  library  whenever  the  student  wishes  to  view  them.  This 
has  enabled  Prof.  Majmudar  to  use  his  entire  class  time  for 
discussing  (as  opposed  to  presenting)  the  material,  talking 
with  students  individually,  and  giving  tests  to  pace  their 
learning.  He  divided  the  course  into  "blocks,"  and  by  his 
testing  procedure  was  able  to  let  each  student  proceed  at 
his  own  pace.  This  approaches  a  programmed  learning 
system.  But  more  importantly,  it  means  that  the  teacher 
doesn't  have  to  use  valuable  class  time  to  present  his 
lectures.  It  gives  considerably  more  individuality  to  the 
system,  and  even  though  most  people  tend  to  think  of 
television  as  extremely  impersonal,  just  the  opposite  turns 
out  to  be  the  case  in  practice.  The  instructor  can  now  have 
a  relatively  large  amount  of  scheduled  time  for  meeting  and 
consulting  with  his  students,  and  he  is  able  to  deal  with 
specific  problems  and  individual  students  in  greater  detail 
and  with  greater  effectiveness. 


Another  advantage  to  videotape  is  that  it  eliminates  a 
number  of  scheduling  problems.  If  for  some  reason  a 
student  can't  get  to  a  lecture,  there  is  no  way  he  can 
recover  that  under  the  traditional  system.  But  if  the  lecture 
is  on  videotape,  the  student  can  simply  go  to  the  library 
whenever  he  is  able  to,  morning  or  night,  and  make  up  the 
lecture.  And  there  is  the  further  advantage  that  the  student 
can  review  lectures  directly.  He  can  stop  a  lecture  at  any 
point.  He  can  go  back  and  repeat  parts  of  it  until  he  is  sure 
that  he  understands  the  material.  These  advantages  are  so 
great,  and  the  potential  and  acceptance  of  taped  lectures  so 
good,  that  additional  viewing  stations  are  now  planned  to 
accommodate  the  increased  use  of  television  tape  at  WPI. 

Another  use  for  the  taped  lecture  or  course  is  to 
provide  instruction  at  remote  locations.  This  has  been  done 
for  graduate   and/or   evening   programs   by   a  number  of 

i  schools  (Colorado  State  University,  for  example)  with 
considerable  success.  The  tapes  are  sent  to  the  instruction 
site,  the  students  view  them  as  their  schedule  permits,  and 

!  the  instructor  visits  the  site  periodically  to  meet  with  the 
students  and  discuss  the  course  work.  This  gready  increases 
the  access  of  graduate  and  extension  courses  to  those  who 
are  employed  relatively  far  from  the  school;  and  if  a 
student  misses  a  class  because  he  is  traveling  or  is  out  in  the 

i  field  temporarily,  then  he  can  make  up  the  work  on  his 
return. 


NUTS  AND  BOLTS 

Prof.  Scott's  initial  decision  to  stick  with  the  V2  inch  tape 
format  has  proved  to  be  quite  sound.  Those  reasons  were 
basically  economic,  as  1  inch  recorders  were  then  some  four 


times  as  expensive  as  Vi  inch  models  and  tape  costs  were 
double.  Recent  advances  in  technology,  however,  have 
narrowed  the  quality  differences  between  the  two  sizes. 
The  current  system  uses  350  scanning  lines  (compared  with 
525  for  commercial  television),  and  produces  an  excellent 
image  quality.  WPI  now  has  four  Vi  inch  recorders  and  three 
cameras,  plus  a  special  effects  generator  which  allows 
sophisticated  switching  between  cameras,  dissolving  or 
"wiping"  between  one  camera  and  another,  and  split-screen 
effects.  Our  two  latest  recorders  are  of  a  new  type, 
compatible  with  26  other  brands  and  models  of  video 
recorders. 

Until  just  recendy,  virtually  all  the  taping  done  at  WPI 
was  done  on  location,  whether  at  the  library  or  in  a 
professor's  office.  The  "studio"  mentioned  before  was  just 
about  big  enough  to  store  the  equipment,  and  no  bigger. 
But  now  a  large  basement  room  in  Higgins  Laboratories  has 
been  converted  to  a  classroom-studio.  A  larger  room  with 
fluorescent  base  lighting  providing  a  minimum  of  150 
foot-candles  of  illumination,  the  new  studio  (quotation 
marks  no  longer  needed)  provides  enough  room  to  hold  an 
entire  oral  communications  class,  for  example,  and  to 
provide  semipermanent  setups  for  the  taping  of  lectures  and 
other  presentation-type  material. 

One  promising  and  creative  approach  to  the  television 
medium  now  being  tried  is  a  format  using  three  cameras. 
One  is  suspended  from  the  ceiling  over  the  instructor's  head 
and  is  used  to  photograph  drawings  and  equations.  In 
effect,  this  replaces  the  blackboard  with  a  notepad.  A 
second  camera  is  focused  on  the  instructor,  so  that  he  may 
appear  on  screen  —  or  in  a  corner  of  it.  The  third  camera 
would  be  trained  on  the  class,  with  a  wide-angle  lens. 
Microphones  and  special  effects  allow  interaction  between 
the  class  and  the  instructor,  thus  directly  involving  the 
students  in  the  television  system. 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


THE  WPI  PLAN 

As  we  here  at  WPI  proceed  with  the  implementation  of  the 
WPI  PLAN,  there  will  be  a  greatly  increased  use  of  TV  tapes 
as  a  means  of  information  storage  and  presentation.  The 
new  approach  to  teaching  controls  engineering,  for  ex- 
ample, involves  the  use  of  individually  prescribed  instruc- 
tion and  will  depend  heavily  on  television  as  a  means  of 
supplementing  the  text  and  other  programmed  learning 
materials.  By  using  the  split  screen,  with  the  instructor 
appearing  in  a  corner  of  the  picture,  we  hope  to  provide  a 
more  personal  approach  to  the  videotape  medium.  We  will 
prepare  many  short,  supplementary  tapes,  after  the  fashion 
of  the  keypunch  and  analog  computer  tapes. 

Under  the  WPI  PLAN,  emphasis  is  being  put  on  the 
individual  student  -  his  needs  and  his  responsibilities.  The 
use  of  television  will  enable  both  faculty  and  students  to 
make  more  effective  use  of  their  time,  and  it  should, 
ideally,  free  a  considerable  amount  of  faculty  time  which 
can  then  be  used  to  guide  and  counsel  students  individually. 


BEYOND  THE  BOOK... 

Commercial  television  is  called  many  names,  mostly  bad: 
the  boob  tube,  the  idiot  box,  and  Newton  Minow's  famous 
"vast  wasteland."  Television  at  WPI  is  quite  another  thing. 
It  is  an  educational  tool  par  excellence,  and  we  are  only 
beginning  to  tap  its  real  potential.  But  from  what  we  have 
seen  so  far,  this  may  be  one  of  the  most  revolutionary 
devices  ever.  By  combining  the  availability  and  personal 
access    which    characterizes    the    book    with    the    action, 
demonstration    and    "presence"    of    personal    instruction, 
television  as  a  teaching  and  "library"  medium  may  ulti- 
mately have  as  much  impact  on  our  lives  and  our  schools  as 
did  the   introduction   of  the  printed  book.   At  WPI  we 
presently  use  reel-to-reel  videotape,  because  it  is  the  only 
system  now  available  and  because  it  allows  a  great  deal  of 
flexibility  in  editing.  In  the  not  very  distant  future,  we  may 
find    ourselves    converting,   for  playback   purposes,   from 
videotape   reels   to  videotape   cassettes,   which  Sony  and 
others  are  now  developing;  to  CBS's  EVR  system,  which 
stores  electronic  television  images  on  motion-picture  film; 
or  even  perhaps  to  RCA's  SelectaVision,  which  uses  laser 
beams  to  reconstruct  holographic  images.   But  whichever 
direction  the  technology  takes,  the  important  fact  is  the 
concept  of  stored,  readily  available,  televised  instruction. 
This    is    the    next    step    beyond    the    book.    It's    a    real 
revolution.  .  .  and  we're  a  part  of  it. 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


On  to  the  WPI  Plan 


a  progress  report 


An  interview  with  Dean  of  Undergraduate  Programs  William  R.  Grogan,  the 
man  directly  involved  in  implementing  the  WPI  PLAN. 


Dean  Grogan,  how  far  along  are  we  toward  the  new  WPI 
PLAN? 

At  the  moment  we  have  established  several  major  faculty 
activities  and  are  working  on  various  aspects  of  the  PLAN. 
These  include: 

1.  A  program  which  involves  most  of  the  faculty  in  the 
development  of  the  projects  and  independent 
studies. 

2.  The  development  of  the  new  study  and  study-con- 
ference methods  of  teaching  in  7-week  terms. 

3.  Development  of  the  Intersession  program,  which 
may  involve  between  100  and  200  separate  topics. 

4.  Development  of  a  completely  new  advisory  system. 

5.  Development  of  audio-visual  support,  including 
especially  the  TV  studio  and  taping  facilities  (for 
more  information  on  this,  see  the  article  on  page  4), 
and  more  and  better  library  facilities  and  materials. 

6.  Planning  for  best  use  of  facilities  and  equipment. 
This  involves  change  from  many  traditional 
laboratories,  where  a  number  of  students  do  the 
same  thing  at  the  same  time,  into  a  system  where 
each  student  may  be  working  on  a  different  project. 
There  will  be  quite  different  requirements  for 
equipment  and  for  space  utilization  than  we  have 
seen  in  the  past. 

The  PLAN  is  scheduled  to  begin  next  fall,  isn't  it? 

We  will  be  operating  under  an  "interim"  calendar  starting 
next  September  immediately  after  Labor  Day  and  finishing 
the  semester  before  Christmas  vacation. 


How  long  will  it  take  to  completely  implement  the  PLAN, 
and  briefly  what  is  the  timetable  for  the  various  stages? 

It  will  take  approximately  seven  years  until  the  PLAN  is 
fully  implemented.  For  the  classes  entering  in  the  fall  of 
1971,  1972,  and  1973,  there  will  be  the  option  to  pursue 
the  BS  under  either  the  traditional  degree  requirements  or 
those  of  the  PLAN.  In  the  fall  of  1974,  all  entering 
freshmen  will  be  under  the  PLAN.  The  new  calendar  will 
begin  next  fall,  1971,  immediately  after  Labor  Day, 
finishing  the  semester  before  Christmas  vacation. 

In  the  fall  of  1972  we  will  introduce  the  7-week  terms, 
so  that  the  1972-73  school  year  will  have  two  7-week  terms 
in  the  fall,  the  3-week  Intersession  in  January,  two  7-week 
terms  in  the  spring,  and  finally  an  optional  7-week  term  in 
the  summer.  This  calendar  will  hold  for  all  students, 
whether  they  are  pursuing  their  degrees  under  the  PLAN  or 
not.  For  those  students  under  the  traditional  program,  the 
two  7-week  terms  in  fall  and  spring  will  be  the  equivalent  of 
two  current  14-week  semesters. 

About  the  Intersession  —  is  it  designed  to  be  organized 
around  a  single  general  subject  or  area  of  investigation,  or 
will  it  be  more  diverse? 

We  have  suggestions  from  the  faculty  for  about  200 
different  topics,  and  we  are  now  going  to  ask  students  for 
suggestions.  In  addition,  we  have  already  established  an 
advisory  committee  composed  of  members  of  the  local 
community,  including  some  alumni  of  course,  representa- 
tives of  the  Art  Museum,  the  Science  Center,  local 
businessmen,  and  others.  This  committee  is  suggesting  both 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


possible  topics  and  people  who  might  speak  or  otherwise 
participate  in  the  programs. 

We  estimate  that  there  will  be  somewhere  between  100 
and  150  topics  offered.  We  hope  to  have  available  next 
October  a  sort  of  "mini-catalog"  listing  the  Intercession 
topics  so  that  students  can  register  for  them.  There  will  be  a 
considerable  variety  and  diversity  to  these  topics.  Some,  for 
example  learning  a  new  computer  language,  may  have  as 
many  as  100  students  enrolled.  More  specialized  subjects, 
such  as  the  state  of  the  art  in  integrated  circuit  technology, 
might  have  only  a  few  students. 

We  hope  that  alumni  with  expertise  in  certain  areas  may 
wish  to  participate  with  our  faculty  in  the  presentation  of 
some  state-of-the-art  type  programs.  Also  there  may  be 
alumni  who  would  like  to  participate  as  students,  with 
upperclass  and  graduate  students,  in  taking  part  in  one  of 
the  seminars.  Alumni  have  often  asked  how  they  can  come 
back  to  the  college  to  learn  something.  This  seems  to  be  an 
ideal  way  to  participate  back  oncampus  in  some  specialized 
learning  experience. 


Faculty  advisors  will  have  a  most  important  role  to  play  in 
making  the  PLAN  work  well.  Can  you  tell  us  a  little  about 
the  advisory  system? 

A  student  will  at  all  times  have  an  advisor,  but  it  may  not 
be  the  same  person  through  all  four  years.  This  depends  on 
a  number  of  factors:  the  compatibility  of  the  student  and 
his  advisor,  for  example;  and  in  some  areas  where  a  student 
has  a  well-defined  interest,  he  may  on  his  own  find  an 
academic  advisor  who  shares  that  interest,  and  the  student 
could  then  be  officially  transferred  to  that  advisor.  We  are 
doing  this  to  some  extent  now,  when  a  student  transfers  his 
major  from  one  department  to  another. 

There  may  turn  out  to  be  three  classes  of  advisors.  One 
would  be  a  personal  type  of  advisor,  who  will  stay  with  a 
student  to  be  responsible  for  following  his  progress.  The 
student  may  have  an  academic  advisor  who  will  help  him 
structure  his  program  in  his  major  field  of  interest.  Finally, 
there  may  be  another  informal  advisor,  who  will  help  the 
student  in  his  minor  field. 


So  the  Intersession  isn't  an  overall  kind  of  thing,  with 
everyone  studying  the  same  area,  or  even  the  same  sort  of 
topic,  for  the  whole  three  weeks. 


I    understand   that  you  want  most  of  the  faculty  to  be 
involved  as  advisors  under  the  PLAN. 


It  might  be  possible  for  a  student  to  take  his  three  weeks  in 
one  area  by  selecting  his  three  topics  accordingly.  We 
expect  that  some  students  will  do  this,  because  such  related 
topics  will  be  offered.  On  the  other  hand,  we  want  to  have 
the  Intersession  be  an  exciting  and  interesting  period,  so 
that  if  a  student  wishes  to  study  an  aspect  of  advanced 
technology  for  one  week,  he  can  do  it;  and  if  he  wants  to 
investigate  the  philosophy  of  a  certain  author,  under  the 
guidance  of  the  English  department  and  with  appropriate 
advanced  readings,  then  he  can  do  that  for  another  week. 
We  want  the  Intersession  to  do  several  things:  to  offer 
study  in  areas  that  are  too  specialized  to  warrant  a 
normal-length  course;  to  offer  things  that  are  frankly 
experimental,  both  in  subject  and  in  method  of  presenta- 
tion; and  to  provide  some  welcome  variety  to  the  student 
and  faculty  programs. 


Yes,  we  will  need  the  great  majority  of  the  faculty  involved 
in  the  advisory  program.  Perhaps  between  65  and  80 
percent  of  the  faculty  will  be  advisors. 


What  sort  of  preparation  do  the  faculty  members  have  for 
advising? 

I  believe  that  we  have  enough  capable  faculty  to  be 
advisors,  but  many  have  not  had  much  experience  in 
academic  advising.  One  of  the  major  tasks  now  in  the 
implementation  phase  is  the  preparation  of  adequate 
supporting  material  and  orientation  programs  for  the 
advisors  so  they  will  be  sufficiently  knowledgeable. 


Will  the  Intersession  use  the  same  sort  of  daily  schedule  as 
the  regular  term? 

The  currently  considered  format  for  the  Intersession  will 
have  a  concentrated  three-day  program  each  week,  starting 
Tuesday  morning  and  ending  Thursday  night,  including 
evening  sessions  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday.  This  is 
experimental.  This  format  can  do  two  things:  it  will  provide 
long  weekends,  to  give  people  time  to  do  advanced  reading, 
or  go  skiing,  or  whatever  they  want;  and  second,  ii  will 
greatly  facilitate  the  participation  of  off-campus  people  - 
such  as  visiting  scholars  and  members  of  the  industrial 
community  —  cither  as  students  or  as  teachers. 


How  will  the  advisory  program  be  coordinated  and  brought 
to  some  sort  of  standard? 

President  Ilazzard  has  recently  appointed  Professor  John 
van  Alstyne  to  the  position  of  Dean  of  Academic  Advising. 
In  this  role  he  will  be  responsible  for  developing  and 
directing  the  advisory  program  of  the  college.  He  will  have 
responsibility  as  Executive  Director  for  the  Council  of 
Advisors,  a  group  of  faculty  who  will  try  to  establish 
standards  for  the  academic  advising  program.  We  have  had 
an  advisory  implementation  group  formed  this  fall,  and 
they  will  continue  to  operate  while  the  program  is  under 
development. 


Dean  Grogan,  a  few  questions  about  the  actual  operation  of 
the  PLAN.  First,  what  are  the  degree  requirements? 

The  degree  requirements  are,  first  of  all,  satisfactory 
completion  of  a  comprehensive  evaluation  in  the  student's 
major  field.  Second,  a  qualifying  project  is  required  in  the 
student's  major  area  at  a  high  level  —  that  is,  a  level 
expected  of  a  baccalaureate  degree  candidate.  Finally,  and 
this  is  a  unique  feature,  the  satisfactory  completion  of  a 
qualifying  project  indicating  that  the  student  is  aware  of 
the  implications  of  technology.  That  is,  can  he  relate  his 
major  field  to  social  areas  demonstrating  the  understanding 
of  the  effect  that  decisions  that  he  makes  in  his  major  field 
can  have  on  the  economy,  on  the  environment,  and, 
sociologically,  on  people  around  him?  This  is  extremely 
important  if  we  are  to  educate  people  who  can  use 
technology  for  its  proper  ends. 

I  What  about  the  comprehensive  evaluation?  What  will  this 
be? 

This  is  not  a  three-hour  written  examination  upon  which 
everything  succeeds  or  fails.  The  evaluation  is  far  more 
sophisticated  than  that.  First  of  all,  I  must  explain  that 
during  the  academic  year  there  will  be  two  weeks  set  aside, 
at  various  times,  for  comprehensive  evaluation.  It  is 
anticipated  that  the  comprehensive  examination  will  be 
based  largely  on  a  comprehensive  problem  which  the 
student  will  have  two  or  three  days  to  solve.  His  written 
report  will  be  carefully  read,  and  then  he  will  have  oral 
interviews  with  professors  and  also,  where  it  is  appropriate, 
with  an  evaluator  from  outside  the  WPI  campus  —  members 
of  the  professional  community  or  of  the  academic  com- 
munity from  other  institutions.  Should  a  student  be  found 
deficient  in  some  general  area  of  knowledge  which  is 
appropriate  to  his  major  field,  it  would  then  be  recom- 
mended that  he  take  certain  coursework  to  reinforce  this 
background.   He  would  then  be  eligible  to  come  up  for 


comprehensive  evaluation  when  it  is  next  given.  The  idea  is 
to  be  certain  that  the  student  is  prepared  at  a  professional 
level  and  with  knowledge  and  competence  to  qualify  for  a 
BS  degree.  What  we  are  saying  in  the  WPI  PLAN  is  that  a 
degree  from  this  institution  should  be  based  upon  demon- 
stration of  knowledge  and  competence,  but  in  the  process 
of  gaining  that  knowledge  and  competence  there  may  be 
various  paths  appropriate  to  the  interests  and  intellectual 
ability  of  our  various  students. 


Much  emphasis  has  been  placed  on  the  project  aspect  of  the 
PLAN.  In  reality,  how  much  of  each  student's  work  will 
involve  projects  and  how  much  will  be  courses? 

The  PLAN  requires  that  each  student  perform  two  qualify- 
ing projects  consisting  of  two  units.  If  these  two  units  are 
out  of  the  normal  sixteen,  then  we  can  expect  that  the 
student  will  have  as  a  minimum  12V2  percent  of  his  effort  in 
project  work.  This  might  well  be  expanded  in  preliminary 
or  preparatory  projects  up  to  a  probable  maximum  of  25 
percent.  We  anticipate  that  most  students  will  take  some- 
where around  15  to  20  percent  of  their  work  in  project 
areas  and  the  rest  in  coursework. 

What  sort  of  response  have  you  had  from  industry  regarding 
the  project  aspect  of  the  PLAN? 

Almost  every  industry  that  we  have  contacted  has  shown  an 
interest  in  participating  in  the  program.  This  varies,  of 
course,  with  the  personal  interest  of  the  managers  or 
company  presidents  involved.  One  local  company  devel- 
oped, in  two  weeks,  a  list  of  thirty  possible  projects  that  we 
could  do  in  their  area  alone.  Recently,  a  large  government 
laboratory  expressed  an  interest  in  establishing  an  Intern- 
ship Center  at  their  location.  Industry  in  general  has 
responded  that  WPI's  idea  of  internship,  of  having  students 
solve  real  problems,  makes  a  great  deal  of  sense. 


Do  you  think  that  part  of  the  reason  for  this  support  is  that 
activities  like  the  Clean  Air  Car  Race  (see  the  Winter  1970 
Journal)  have  shown  that  students  can  really  accomplish 
something? 

Definitely.  There  is  some  skepticism  about  a  student's 
ability  to  make  a  significant  contribution,  but  experience 
with  some  of  our  activities,  like  the  Clean  Air  Car  Race  and 
the  current  project  aimed  at  stopping  the  pollution  of 
Salisbury  Pond,  has  shown  that  with  the  right  challenge, 
and  with  the  right  sort  of  advisory  support,  students  are 
extremely  imaginative,  resourceful,  and  able  to  apply  their 
knowledge  in  really  useful  ways.  Further  demonstration  of 
this  fact  should  be  available  as  23  students  undertake  our 
first  10-week  summer  off-campus  internship  under  the 
Sloan  Foundation  assisted  Environmental  Systems  Study 
Program. 


:])E  WPI  JOURNAL 


Dean  Grogan,  when  do  you  expect  to  establish  the  first 
Internship  Center,  where  students  will  be  able  to  carry  out 
project  work  off-campus? 

I  don't  know  for  sure,  but  we  hope  to  have  a  limited- 
capacity  center  going  next  year,  and  the  year  after  we  hope 
to  have  the  formal  Internship  Center  program  established. 
You  have  to  remember  that  the  recession  has  slowed 
down  our  development  in  that  area.  The  resources  that 
industry  has  are  stretched  pretty  thin,  and  they  are  not  able 
to  make  the  commitments  that"  they  might  have  made  a 
year  or  so  ago.  Thus  it  will  take  a  while  longer  than  we  had 
originally  hoped  to  get  the  internship  program  firmly 
established. 

Speaking  of  the  recession,  what  about  the  funds  required  to 
implement  the  PLAN? 

There  are  several  types  of  expenses  involved  here.  One  is 
the  extra  salaries  for  the  people  who  are  doing  the  redesign 
of  the  courses,  the  studies  and  study-conferences,  generat- 
ing projects,  and  so  forth.  It  will  take  overtime  work  and 
work  during  the  summer.  We  have  asked  all  the  faculty  to 
contribute,  at  no  pay,  two  weeks  of  their  time  during  this 
coming  summer  to  help  the  implementation.  In  those  cases 
where  the  work  in  the  department,  and  for  the  college  in 
general,  will  exceed  that  limit  —  and  there  will  be  a  number 
of  such  cases  —  then  those  faculty  members  will  be 
compensated  for  the  excess  time. 

Other  expenses  involve  bringing  outside  consultants  to 
the  campus,  and  then  there  are  costs  for  renovating  certain 
facilities  and  buildings,  additional  costs  for  upgrading  the 
library,  and  the  cost  of  new  and  more  equipment  —  for 
example,  more  videotape  players.  .  .  and  more  videotape. 
Because  these  costs  are  involved  in  implementing  the  PLAN 
and  are  generally  one-time-only  in  nature,  we  hope  to  get 
some  support  from  philanthropic  and  educational 
foundations. 

What  will  be  the  outlook  for  the  student  who  gets  his 
degree  under  the  PLAN?  That  is,  do  you  anticipate 
problems  with  industry  when  our  students  are  looking  for 
jobs? 

From  all  evidence  at  hand  now,  there  should  be  no  problem 
for  any  of  our  students  to  find  employment  in  industry 
upon  graduation.  Although  each  student's  evaluation  will 
not   contain   a   quality   point   average,  it  will  contain  an 


indication  whether  each  course  taken  was  completed 
acceptably  or  with  distinction.  It  will  contain  the  topics  the 
students  have  studied  during  Intersessions,  and,  most 
important  of  all,  it  will  contain  a  written  summary  by  the 
chief  project  advisor  on  the  two  qualifying  projects.  This 
would  be  extremely  helpful  to  any  prospective  employer  in 
evaluating  the  potential  of  the  student  for  the  type  of 
position  he  might  have  in  mind. 

What  about  graduate  schools? 

The  same  situation  should  apply  there,  because  we  will  be 
offering  information  over  and  above  what  we  now  have 
regarding  a  student's  ability  to  do  research,  in  the  case  of  a 
scientist,  or,  for  an  engineer,  how  he  can  apply  and 
integrate  the  total  body  of  knowledge  that  he  has  at  hand. 
One  of  the  important  criteria  for  graduate  school  admission 
are  recommendations  from  faculty  members.  Because  of 
the  more  intimate  association  our  faculty  members  will 
have  in  the  project  and  independent  study  phase  of  our 
program,  they  should  be  better  qualified  than  ever  to 
provide  the  necessary  information  to  the  graduate  schools. 
While  the  transcript  will  be  somewhat  different  than  what 
we  have  been  used  to,  this  should  be  no  real  impediment. 
All  colleges  are  used  to  reading  transcripts  which  have 
different  rating  values  —  for  example,  the  many  transcripts 
we  receive  from  European  and  other  countries  for  students 
applying  to  graduate  school. 

Finally,  Dean  Grogan,  how  will  the  PLAN  affect  the 
potential  for  alumni  involvement? 

Alumni  involvement  should  be  considerably  increased  when 
the  PLAN  is  in  full  operation.  One  of  the  primary  purposes 
of  the  PLAN  is  to  break  down  walls  between  the  campus 
and  the  community  outside  —  to  build  bridges  between 
them.  Since  alumni  form  a  very  valuable  resource  in  the 
professional  community,  it  would  follow  that  their  involve- 
ment with  our  "real-life"  problems  and  situations  should  be 
greatly  increased.  Specifically,  there  are  two  areas  where  vvc 
now  actively  solicit  alumni  suggestions  and  participation. 
One  is  in  the  Intcrsession  programs,  as  I  have  described 
earlier.  The  second  way  alumni  can  help  is  by  assisting  us  in 
obtaining  and  carrying  out  off-campus-oricnted  project 
work.  We  hope  that,  in  the  near  future,  we  will  be  able  to 
supply  you  with  additional  information  as  to  how  alumni 
may  participate  in  such  programs,  through  subsequent 
Journal  articles. 


10 


The  Miseducation 
of  the  Artist 


by  Joseph  C.  Landwehr 


Winner  of  the  1070  Wat  Tyler  Cluverius  Prize 


T* 


RADITIONALLY,  the  artist  has  been  forced  to  play 
the  role  of  a  witty  fool  in  American  society.  Since  the 
middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  America  has  been 
preoccupied  with  its  industrial  and  technological  expansion, 
creating  an  economically  wealthy  but  culturally  impov- 
erished nation.  Art  cannot  be  called  production  in  the  usual 
sense,  nor  can  it  be  valued  adequately  on  a  monetary  scale, 
yet  Americans  have  tried  to  do  both.  Consequently,  the 
artist  has  been  forced  to  sacrifice  creativity  for  market- 
ability in  order  to  survive. 

The  true  American  artist  has  died,  while  his  commercial 
counterpart  has  been  offered  in  his  place,  presenting  a  poor 
substitute  at  best.  These  commercial  artists  have  made 
American  art  synonymous  with  entertainment  while  provid- 
ing mass  escapism  from  the  pressures  of  a  technologically 
oriented  society.  Mass  appeal  has  replaced  creative  in- 
genuity as  the  criterion  for  artistic  success.  The  would-be 
artist  in  this  Philistine  society  of  ours  is  faced  with  one  of 
two  alternatives:  either  he  can  appeal  to  the  commercial 
market,  in  which  case  he  will  be  well  rewarded  financially; 
or  he  can  retreat  to  his  ivory  tower,  where  he  will  perhaps 
create  true  art,  but  will  starve  in  the  process. 

What  Americans  have  failed  to  realize  is  that  by 
degrading  art  to  the  status  of  mere  entertainment,  we  are 

Joseph  C.  Landwehr  is  a  senior,  the  first  candidate  for  the 
BS  in  Humanities  and  Technology  in  the  English  Depart- 
ment, with  high  honors.  He  is  editor  of  The  Zig-Zag  Papers, 
a  WPI  student  literary  magazine, 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


ignoring  the  prophetic  value  of  the  artistic  vision.  The  poet 
is  the  only  one  sensitive  enough  to  maintain  the  psychologi- 
cal equilibria  in  our  hectic  existence;  the  painter  and 
sculptor  are  the  only  ones  observant  enough  to  catch  the 
true  reflections  from  our  churning  waters.  Because  he  is  the 
only  one  with  the  perspective  to  understand  the  con- 
sequences of  our  present  technology,  the  artist  is  the  only 
one  equipped  to  prepare  America  for  life  in  the  electronic 
age.  Just  as  America  has  seen  the  marriage  of  the  scientist 
and  the  engineer  to  serve  the  industrial  age,  so  too  will  he 
see  the  marriage  of  the  artist  and  the  scientist  to  serve 
Marshall  McLuhan's  global  village.  Because  America  has 
failed  to  recognize  the  necessity  of  this  union,  the  artist  has 
continually  been  forced  to  play  the  clown. 

One  major  consequence  of  this  attitude  has  been  the 
increasing  irrelevance  of  American  education,  especially  for 
creative  students.  The  attitudes  on  which  our  educational 
system  is  based  have  become  obsolete  with  the  invention  of 
the  computer  and  the  dawn  of  the  electronic  age.  Let  us 
take  a  look  at  these  outdated  attitudes  and  their  con- 
sequences for  the  artist. 

The  entire  educational  system  in  this  country  is  geared 
toward  increasing  the  economic  marketability  of  its  stu- 
dents. Our  colleges  and  universities  are  generally  not 
designed  to  educate,  but  to  ensure  an  easier,  better  paying 
job  to  those  students  who  can  tolerate  the  system  for  four 
or  more  years.  Similarly,  our  elementary  and  high  schools 
are  designed  to  provide  raw  material  to  the  colleges.  As  a 
result,    those    students    who    are    seriously    interested    in 


11 


educating  themselves  have  become  disillusioned  with  tradi- 
tional academic  life. 

Because  every  child  born  to  financially  comfortable 
families  is  expected  to  one  day  enter  college,  where  the 
work  load  will  demand  a  highly  developed  reading  skill, 
early  literacy  is  stressed,  both  at  home  and  in  school.  This 
has  the  detrimental  effect  of  teaching  the  child  to  separate 
the  imaginative,  emotional,  and  sensory  aspects  of  experi- 
ence, consequently  destroying  the  totality  of  his  artistic 
perspective.  Furthermore,  the  emphasis  placed  on  such 
subjects  as  arithmetic,  spelling,  grammar,  and  vocabulary 
teaches  the  child  to  think  according  to  pre-established  rules. 
Understanding  is  achieved  at  the  expense  of  appreciation 
and  imagination. 

Perhaps  the  most  destructive  consequence  of  our  job 
oriented  educational  system  is  the  competition  it  fosters 
between  students.  Grades  often  become  the  substitute  for 
the  abilities  they  are  designed  to  measure.  More  often  than 
not,  the  students  with  the  highest  grades  are  the  ones  most 
competent  in  beating  the  system.  For  the  would-be  artist 
this  is  disastrous;  instead  of  being  taught  to  cooperate  with 
other  artistic  minds  to  the  end  of  greater  creativity,  he 
learns  to  isolate  himself  and  mistrust  outside  influence. 

The  second  point  of  obsolescence  we  must  examine  is 
the  discrepancy  between  the  information  transfer  systems 
of  the  industrial  age,  on  which  our  educational  system  is 
based,  and  those  of  the  electronic  age,  in  which  our 
students  are  born.  In  the  industrial  age,  the  printed  word 
was  the  primary  means  of  information  transfer.  Then  it  was 
sufficient  that  the  information  transferred  be 
homogeneous,  but  the  students  of  today  are  growing  up  in 
an  electronic  age,  where  information  is  transferred  instanta- 
neously and,  as  such,  creates  an  increasing  degree  of 
identity  between  subject  and  object.  Thus  today's  educa- 
tion must  be  participatory  as  well  as  homogeneous.  Books 
and  lectures  no  longer  provide  relevant  instruction  because 
they  are  not  participatory.  They  require  the  use  of  one 
sense  only  (the  visual  and  the  auditory,  respectively),  and 
consequently  complete  participation  is  not  achieved.  The 
result  is  an  increasing  degree  of  restlessness  and  boredom 
among  students. 

The  third  obsolete  attitude  perpetuated  by  American 
schools  is  that  of  American  supremacy.  Our  education  is 
geared  toward  acceptance  of  the  American  way  of  life. 
Other  cultures  and  heritages  arc  given  secondary  impor- 
tance and  are  studied  with  a  somewhat  condescending 
attitude.  In  an  industrial  society,  such  nationalism  is 
understandable,  but  in  an  age  of  instantaneous  communica- 
tion and  world-shrinking  transportation,  it  is  not  only 
obsolete,  but  absurd.  Students  arc  encouraged  to  conform 
to  the  American  way,  but  being  born  in  a  global  village, 
they  rebel  and  seek  the  opposite  extreme.  This  rebellion  is 


even  more  marked  in  the  artist,  whose  commitment  is  to 
mankind  and  who  is  more  inclined  to  experiment  with  new 
ways  of  life  than  are  other  students. 

These  attitudes  of  economic  orientation,  nonparticipa- 
tory  educational  methods,  and  American  nationalism  com- 
bine to  discourage  intellectual  cooperation,  stifle  creative 
innovation,  and  breed  boredom  and  apathy.  The  would-be 
artist  is  finding  it  increasingly  difficult  to  develop  in  such  a 
stifling  atmosphere.  He  is  forced  to  leave  the  educational 
system  and  supervise  his  own  growth.  Those  that  remain 
behind  generally  feel  trapped  and  discouraged.  Why  should 
artistic  people  be  forced  to  bear  the  consequences  of  a 
faulty  educational  system?  The  artist  is  the  only  one 
capable  of  preventing  America  from  becoming  a  slave  to  its 
own  technological  advancement;  he  is  the  only  one 
equipped  to  guide  America  safely  through  the  electronic 
age.  The  sooner  we  realize  this  and  begin  to  provide  for  the 
education  of  the  artist,  the  sooner  we  will  begin  to  control 
our  own  destiny.  The  following  are  a  few  proposals  for  this 
artistic  education. 

The  first  and  most  obvious  changes  to  be  made  are  in 
society's  attitudes  towards  the  artist  and  his  creation.  Art 
must  be  encouraged  for  its  aesthetic  value  alone  and  not  for 
its  commercial  salability.  The  artist  must  be  hailed  as  the 
prophet  of  the  electronic  age  and  exonerated  from  his  role 
as  an  entertainer.  Finally,  society  must  be  willing  to 
embrace  the  artist's  commitment  to  mankind  and  cease  its 
encouragement  of  American  nationalism.  When,  and  only 
when,  these  new  attitudes  become  ingrained  in  our  society, 
the  artist  will  be  able  to  coexist  with  our  educational 
system,  and  changes  can  be  made  to  keep  creativity  alive. 

Grades  must  be  abolished  on  all  levels  of  education.  The 
progress  of  each  student  should  be  discussed  periodically  by 
the  faculty,  and  advancement  should  be  according  to  ability 
rather  than  age.  At  the  same  time,  cooperation  must  be 
encouraged  in  such  a  way  that  each  student  participates  and 
none  becomes  parasitically  dependent  on  the  group. 
"Cheating"  should  be  allowed,  provided  it  is  a  mutual 
process. 

The  trend  toward  earlier  and  earlier  literacy  must  be 
reversed.  The  early  years  of  education  should  be  conducted 
orally,  thereby  creating  a  greater  degree  of  student  partic- 
ipation and,  at  the  same  time,  teaching  the  student  to 
embrace  the  totality  of  experience.  During  the  oral  phase  of 
his  education,  the  student  should  be  trained  in  sensory 
awareness  and  aesthetic  appreciation.  He  should  be  taught 
to  express  his  emotions  openly  and  to  recognize  these 
emotions  in  others.  Perhaps  sensitivity  training  could  be 
employed  to  accomplish  this,  while  at  the  same  time 
increasing  the  student's  human  compassion  and  social 
commitment.  This  oral  phase  of  education  would  be 
invaluable  in  instilling  artistic  sensitivity  and  perspective  in 
our  students. 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURN  . 


At  the  same  time,  these  students  must  be  taught  to 
express  themselves  creatively,  without  fear  of  breaking 
pre-established  rules.  They  must  not  be  burdened  with 
prescribed  value  systems,  but  must  learn  how  to  critically 
form  their  own.  Above  all,  they  must  be  taught  to  assert 
themselves  existentially  in  the  face  of  opposition.  To  the 
artist,  this  would  mean  learning  to  experiment  with  form 
and  structure,  as  well  as  style,  resulting  in  greater  diversity 
of  creative  endeavor. 

Maintaining  these  practices  throughout  elementary  and 
high  school  would  assure  that  the  creative  spirit  would 
survive  in  artistic  children.  The  traditional  three  R's  could 
be  postponed  for  a  few  years,  when  their  introduction 
would  not  delimit  the  young  artist  in  any  way.  A  logical 
extension  of  this  program  would  be  to  establish  colleges 
explicitly  for  the  purpose  of  further  developing  creativity. 

With  healthy  attitudes  toward  art  instilled  in  him  and 
his  natural  creativity  still  intact,  the  young  person  graduat- 
ing from  high  school  would  be  able  to  seriously  consider 
devoting  his  life  to  artistic  endeavor,  without  feeling  the 
need  to  have  a  more  concrete  career  to  fall  back  on.  The 
present-day  liberal  arts  education  would  no  longer  be 
sufficient  for  this  new  breed  of  strongly  committed  artists. 
The  artistic  education  would  provide  for  the  artist  what  the 
technical  education  provides  for  the  engineer,  while  at  the 
same  time  reducing  his  feelings  of  alienation  and  disillusion- 
ment towards  the  educational  system. 

The  artistic  college  should  be  loosely  structured  to 
provide  maximum  freedom  and  room  for  creative  ex- 
pansion. Books,  classes,  and  lectures  should  be  replaced,  as 
much  as  possible,  by  independent  study  under  professional 
guidance.  This  should  be  supplemented  by  small  informal 
discussion  groups,  comprised  solely  of  students  at  various 
levels  of  development,  and  creative  workshops,  designed  to 
encourage  interplay  and  cooperation  between  artists  in 
different  fields.  The  students  must  be  free  to  explore  any 
field  of  interest  they  wish,  while  at  the  same  time 
determining  their  own  course  of  education.  Close  associa- 
tion with  a  faculty,  preferably  composed  of  professional 
artists,  on  both  an  academic  and  social  level,  would  provide 
more  highly  developed  creative  influence  and  guidance. 

One  area  in  particular  in  which  the  faculty  should  exert 
their  influence  is  in  soliciting  the  artistic  vision  from  inner 
consciousness.  If  we  compare  the  mind  to  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  thoughts  can  be  considered  to  be  the  tiny  bubbles 
forming  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  As  these  thought  bubbles 
rise,  they  become  larger  and  larger  until  they  burst  at  the 
surface  of  the  water.  Normally,  we  perceive  our  thoughts 


only  when  they  reach  the  surface,  but  the  artistic  vision  is 
perceived  much  closer  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  which 
represents  the  source  of  thought  in  this  analogy.  Thus  if  the 
artist  were  taught  to  perceive  thought  at  lower  and  lower 
levels  of  consciousness,  he  would  benefit  immeasurably. 

The  best  method  of  accomplishing  this  is  through 
transcendental  meditation.  The  use  of  hallucinogenic  drugs 
will  also  take  one  closer  to  the  source  of  thought,  but  the 
resulting  state  of  consciousness  is  temporary  and  the  means 
of  attaining  it  somewhat  dangerous.  Transcendental  medita- 
tion is  much  safer,  and  its  effects  are  more  permanent, 
leading  ultimately  to  greater  frequency  and  spontaneity  of 
the  artistic  vision.  Instruction  in  this  technique  should  be 
made  available  to  the  students  of  the  artistic  college. 

The  faculty  should  also  attempt  to  encourage  student 
interest  in  several  other  crucial  directions.  The  artist  should 
understand  and  be  able  to  use  media  as  an  extension  of  his 
human  capabilities.  He  must  also  learn  to  transcend  time 
and  space  in  his  work,  if  he  is  to  become  the  prophet  of  the 
electronic  age.  Finally,  he  must  develop  his  ability  to 
communicate  archetypally  to  those  who  will  come  in 
contact  with  his  creation. 

The  artistic  college  would  not  only  result  in  the 
maximum  development  and  creative  expansion  of  the  artist, 
but  it  would  also  provide  an  alternative  for  those  students 
who  have  become  disillusioned  with  traditional  education. 
The  main  advantage  of  the  artistic  education  is  that  there  is 
no  prescribed  course  of  study;  rather  the  student  is 
encouraged  to  broaden  his  own  sphere  of  interest  while 
receiving  professional  advice  and  guidance.  He  is  also  placed 
in  a  situation  where  the  "bull  session,"  which  is  ex- 
ternalized in  traditional  colleges,  becomes  the  focal  point  of 
the  learning  experience,  providing  maximum  exchange  and 
development  of  ideas  and  an  increased  degree  of  social 
awareness. 

While  it  is  the  artistic  education  that  is  proposed  here, 
primarily  as  an  alternative  to  traditional  education,  pres- 
ent-day colleges  and  universities  would  benefit  tremen- 
dously from  change  in  the  directions  outlined  above.  These 
institutions  are  still  steeped  in  the  archaic  traditions  of  job 
orientation,  nonparticipatory  methods  of  instruction,  and 
American  nationalism.  Only  artistically  educated  people 
will  remain  master  of  the  computer,  and  only  with 
artistically  educated  people  can  the  dream  of  world  peace 
and  racial  harmony  become  a  reality.  Otherwise,  if  educa- 
tion continues  on  its  present  course,  humanity  will  literally 
be  swallowed  by  its  own  technology. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


THE  ALUMNI  FUND 


Why? 

Every  year  WPI,  along  with  most  colleges  and 
universities,  conducts  an  annual  alumni  fund  cam- 
paign. It  is  a  program  designed  to  raise  funds  for 
current  operation  of  the  college  from  its  former 
students.  At  WPI  this  program  has  been  an  annual 
tradition  since  1924  except  for  the  three  years  of 
the  Centennial  Fund  Campaign.  Last  year,  WPI's 
program  realized  $148,408  from  2,917  alumni 
directly  and  through  corporate  matching.  This 
year,  1970-71,  goals  of  $300,000  and  50%  partici- 
pation (4,650  alumni  contributors)  have  been  set. 

Why  So  Much? 

WPI  is  not  much  different  from  most  privately 
endowed  and  operated  colleges  in  the  country.  We 
have  failed  to  balance  our  budget  six  out  of  the  last 
seven  years,  and  in  1969-70  we  had  a  deficit  of 
$400,000.  An  optimist  might  look  at  that  loss 
(income  4.2%  below  expenses)  and  say  it's  not  bad 
when  compared  with  deficits  at  a  large  number  of 
other  schools  where  income  was  generally  10% 
below  expenses.  But  the  cold,  hard  facts  are  that 
any  loss  means  a  depletion  of  the  school's  reserve 
funds  to  pay  expenses.  It  is  clear  that  this  practice 
can't  go  on  forever. 

The  budget  for  1970-71  at  WPI  will  be  bal- 
anced if  we  can  raise  $550,000  for  current  opera- 
tions. Of  this  total,  $300,000  has  been  set  as  the 
goal  of  the  annual  alumni  fund,  with  the  remainder 
to  be  contributed  by  foundations  and  corpora- 
tions. This  is  a  very  large  amount.  But  if  WPI  is  to 
maintain  the  quality  of  its  education,  to  continue 
those  programs  that  have  distinguished  the  school 
for  so  long,  then  we  will  need  that  much.  Eco- 
nomic inflation  enters  into  the  picture  as  a 
significant  factor.  But  there  is  also  a  kind  of 
technological  inflation:  WPI  educates  men  and 
women  to  be  able  to  work  in  and  deal  with  the 
increasingly  technological  world  of  today.  But  one 
of  the  ramifications  of  increasing  technology  is 
that  we  must  keep  striving  forward,  breaking  new 
ground.  To  stand  still  is  to  be  left  behind,  and  the 
quality  that  has  always  been  associated  with  WPI  — 
and  never  more  than  now,  with  the  advent  of  the 
WPI  PLAN  —  must  inevitably  suffer  unless  we  keep 


14 


pace  with  the  expanding  world.  These  two  forms 
of  inflation  are  conspiring  to  force  up  the  expenses 
of  the  college.  And  this  is  why  we  are  asking  so 
much  from  our  alumni. 

Added  Benefits 

Many  alumni  frequently  underestimate  the  real 
meaning  and  value  of  their  gifts.  Many  corpora- 
tions match  a  gift  from  an  alumnus  to  his  college, 
usually  on  a  dollar-for-dollar  basis  with  some  upper 
and  lower  limits  attached.  Thus  the  alumnus' 
contribution  actually  doubles  in  value. 

A  potentially  greater  source  of  revenue  for  the 
college  comes  indirectly.  While  the  actual  dollar 
contributions  from  alumni  are  vitally  important, 
the  percentage  of  participation  by  alumni  is  equal- 
ly important.  This  is  true  because  many  founda- 
tions look  at  the  performance  in  alumni  giving  as  a 
good  indicator  of  the  strength  and  vitality  of  the 
institution.  They  use  this  as  one  of  their  criteria  in 
selecting  recipients  of  grants.  The  figure  most 
frequently  cited  as  "acceptable  and  commendable" 
is  50%  participation.  For  WPI  this  means  gifts  from 
4,650  alumni  are  needed.  For  alumni  who  feel  they 
can't  afford  a  "large"  gift,  therefore,  the  contribu- 
tion of  something  is  still  most  valuable  in  generat- 
ing additional  support. 

Can  We  Do  It? 

I  have  referred  to  levels  of  support  and  participa- 
tion far  above  our  recent  efforts,  and  I  am  firmly 
convinced  that  these  high  levels  are  attainable.  My 
optimism  is  based  on  two  facts.  First,  about  75% 
of  the  alumni  who  have  been  personally  ap- 
proached have  indicated  their  intention  to  contrib- 
ute, although  only  a  disappointingly  small  percent- 
age of  these  people  have  actually  made  a  gift  or 
pledge.  Second  is  an  evaluation  of  alumni  giving 
from  1967  to  1969  at  several  colleges  and  univer- 
sities about  our  size  and  located  in  the  Northeast. 
(Outstanding  programs  such  as  Yale's  and  Dart- 
mouth's have  been  excluded  to  give  an  accurate 
summary.)  Summarized  below,  there  are  some  very 
surprising  facts  relating  our  annual  giving  record  to 
twelve  other  similar  programs. 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Represen 

tative  Alumni 

Giving 

Alumni  Giving 

$/A/umni 

Average 

F/Y 

No.  Alumni 

Number           % 

Fund 

$/Alumnus        Gift 

Amherst 

67-68 

11,584 

6,350         54.8 

$     483,360 

41.73 

68-69 

1 1 ,746 

6,148         52.3 

563,488 

47.97 

Bowdoin 

67-68 

9,203 

4,558         49.5 

430,262 

46.86 

68-69 

9,354 

4,551          48.7 

506,342 

54.13 

Colgate 

67-68 

13,031 

6,752         51 .8 

548,810 

42.12 

68-69 

13,548 

6,579         48.6 

532,738 

39.64 

Hamilton 

67-68 

6,479 

3,200         49.2 

179,936 

27.77 

68-69 

6,943 

3,643         52.5 

188,432 

27.14 

Haverford 

67-68 

4,295 

2,158         50.2 

187,514 

43.66 

68-69 

4,217 

2,018         47.9 

177,182 

42.01 

Holy  Cross 

67-68 

15,317 

3,721          24.3 

439,940 

28.72 

68-69 

15,627 

4,066         26.0 

579,071 

37.06 

Williams 

67-68 

11,150 

6,301          56.5 

517,218 

46.39 

68-69 

1 1 ,342 

6,307         55.6 

522,152 

46.04 

Cooper  Union 

67-68 

8,820 

3,292         37.3 

205,518 

23.30 

68-69 

9,000 

3,121          34.7 

196,162 

20.79 

Lehigh 
MIT 
RPI 
Stevens 


Total  Liberal  Arts 
Colleges 

Total  Engineering 
Colleges 

Total  Liberal  Arts  & 
Engineering 
Colleges 

WPI 


67-68 
68-69 
67-68 
68-69 
67-68 
68-69 
67-68 
68-69 


22,451 
22,948 
54,758 
54,852 
23,962 
24,753 
6,600 
6,650 


143,834 


234,794 


7,452 
7,851 
18,771 
19,829 
8,128 
7,307 
2,874 
2,682 


66,352 
81,307 


378,628         147,659 


Total  WPI 


67-68 
68-69 


8,724 
8,994 

17,413 


2,714 
2,928 

5,642 


33.2 
34.2 
34.3 
36.2 
33.9 
29.5 
43.6 
40.3 


46.1 
34.6 

39.0 

31.1 

32.6 

32.4 


Figures  taken  from  American  Alumni  Council- 
Council  for  Financial  Aid  to  Education 

September  3,  1970 


583,038 
767,247 
2,842,046 
2,644,460 
560,171 
692,434 
1 37,473 
135,550 


$  5,856,445 
8,764,099 

14,620,544 

112,452 
119,823 

232,275 


25.97 
33.43 
51.90 
48.21 
23.38 
27.97 
20.83 
20.38 


$40.72  $  88.30 


37.33 


38.08 

12.89 
13.79 

13.34 


108.00 


99.00 


41.20 


WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


Why  Give? 

Let's  take  a  quick  look  at  why  you  should 
contribute  to  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund.  Obviously 
there's  the  financial  need  factor  which  has  already 
been  covered  quite  thoroughly.  It  certainly  isn't 
good  business  to  operate  at  a  deficit  every  year  and 
eventually  a  tuition  ceiling  will  probably  be 
reached.  Tuition  will  be  $2525  in  September,  1971 
and  yet  this  figure,  which  has  risen  so  rapidly  in 
recent  years,  still  only  covers  about  60%  of  the 
cost  of  educating  a  student.  But  beyond  the  pure 
financial  need  factor,  I  think  every  alumnus  can 
answer  three  simple  questions  which  will  determine 
if  he  should  give. 

First,  what  did  the  college  do  for  you?  Every 
alumnus  of  WPI  received  a  sound  education  in  the 
fields  of  science  and  engineering  plus  a  social 
education  of  living,  working,  and  playing.  Your 
education  from  WPI,  which  you  received  in  the 
relatively  short  period  of  about  four  years,  prob- 
ably more  than  anything  else  formed  the  founda- 
tion which  has  brought  you  to  where  you  are 
today. 

Second,  what  is  the  college  doing  for  you?  It  is 
continually  broadening  and  strengthening  its  repu- 
tation. As  this  happens,  your  college  degree  be- 
comes more  meaningful.  The  WPI  PLAN  is  a  great 
innovation  which  has  generated  unusual  interest 
and  support  in  the  college.  Even  MIT  has  asked  for 
copies  of  the  PLAN  so  they  may  study  it!  It  has 
placed  WPI  in  a  leadership  role  in  the  field  of 
science  and  engineering  education.  The  Clean  Air 
Car  Race  last  summer  brought  us  much  favorable 
publicity.  This  continued  updating  and  improving 
of  our  total  program  will  educate  the  best  possible 
engineers  and  scientists.  In  brief,  then,  WPI  is 
moving  ahead  rapidly  in  many  areas  of  concern;  as 


this  happens  and  the  recognition  of  and  interest  in> 
WPI  increases,  so  does  the  value  of  your  WPI! 
education. 

And  finally,  what  will  WPI  do  for  you?  This  is 
the  hardest  question  to  answer  because  the  future 
is  so  unpredictable.  But,  in  generalities,  we  will 
continue  to  move  ahead  as  a  leader  in  science  and 
engineering  education.  We  will  provide  many  more 
opportunities  for  alumni  to  become  involved  in 
WPI  through  project  and  Intersession  activities.  We 
are  just  starting  an  organized  alumni  placement 
program,  as  outlined  elsewhere  in  this  issue.  We 
will  make  every  effort  to  economize,  introduce 
efficiencies,  and  be  more  effective.  And  in  sum- 
mary, we  will  continue  to  strive  to  be  number  one 
in  the  field  of  science  and  engineering  education. 

The  Alumni  Fund  Campaign  This  Year 

To  raise  the  money  we  need  this  year,  the  alumni 
fund  is  being  conducted  on  a  chapter-by-chaptei 
schedule,  with  personal  solicitation  by  alumn; 
being  the  method  of  contact.  To  date,  about  75?? 
of  the  alumni  personally  contacted  have  indicatec 
that  they  intend  to  give;  unfortunately,  only  i 
disappointingly  small  proportion  of  these  peopk 
have  actually  made  a  gift  or  pledge,  as  indicated  ir 
the  chart  of  chapter  giving  to  date. 

So  the  job  between  now  and  June  30  is  verj 
clear-cut;  it  simply  involves  getting  our  larg( 
number  of  concerned  and  interested  alumni  tc 
make  a  definite  commitment  for  a  gift  or  pledge  bj 
sending  a  pledge  card  to  the  alumni  office.  Thi: 
follow-up  is  being  pursued  by  a  combination  o 
mail  and  phone  contacts.  If  the  program  is  to  b< 
successful  —  that  is,  if  the  alumni  do  their  fat 
share  by  contributing  $300,000  —  the  chapter 
must  meet  the  individual  goals  shown  in  the  chart 

—  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '6» 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURf 


D. 

strict 

Summary 

March  5,  1971 

#  in 

#  of 

% 

Total 

A  verage 

Chapter 

Rank 

Chapter 

Gifts 

Giving 

Goals 

Gifts 

Gift 

Berkshire 

3 

64 

16 

25 

$  2,000 

$      470.00 

$  29.38 

Boston 

6 

907 

138 

15 

26,000 

6,411.00 

46.46 

Central  New  York 

5 

109 

17 

16 

3,500 

920.00 

54.12 

Chicago 

17 

122 

6 

5 

3,500 

2,890.00 

481.67 

Cincinatti 

28 

52 

i 

2 

1,600 

10.00 

10.00 

Cleveland 

11 

105 

9 

9 

3,000 

645.00 

71.67 

Connecticut  Valley 

1 

345 

110 

32 

1 1 ,500 

9,733.00 

88.48 

Detroit 

17 

92 

5 

5 

2,500 

503.00 

100.60 

Eastern  Connecticut 

29 

120 

1 

1 

2,900 

50.00 

50.00 

Hartford 

23 

634 

23 

4 

20,000 

1,370.80 

59.57 

Hudson-Mohawk 

4 

143 

30 

21 

4,500 

2,476.00 

82.53 

Los  Angeles 

17 

273 

15 

5 

7,500 

665.00 

44.33 

New  Haven 

15 

350 

20 

6 

12,000 

630.00 

31.50 

New  York 

23 

538 

22 

4 

17,500 

5,413.00 

246.05 

North  Shore 

11 

322 

30 

9 

9,000 

1,907.00 

63.57 

Northern  California 

17 

174 

9 

5 

4,500 

1,375.00 

152.78 

Northern  New  Jersey 

17 

468 

24 

5 

1 5,000 

4,565.00 

1 90.21 

Pacific  Northwest 

26 

36 

1 

3 

800 

100.00 

100.00 

Philadelphia 

15 

274 

17 

6 

11,500 

875.00 

51.47 

Pittsburgh 

7 

99 

14 

14 

5,000 

1,700.00 

121.43 

Rhode  Island 

2 

307 

92 

30 

7,500 

3,064.00 

33.30 

Rochester-Genesee 

9 

110 

14 

13 

3,400 

618.00 

44.14 

Southeastern 

17 

130 

7 

5 

3,100 

410.00 

58.57 

St.  Louis 

10 

21 

2 

10 

353.00 

176.50 

Washington 

23 

396 

16 

4 

1 2,000 

8,563.00 

535.19 

Western  New  York 

11 

89 

8 

9 

2,400 

260.00 

32.50 

Wilmington 

26 

124 

4 

3 

5,800 

247.00 

61.75 

Worcester 

7 

1437 

197 

14 

45,000 

14,455.00 

73.38 

Out  of  District 

11 

1527 

141 

9 

49,000 

1 6,721 .00 

118.59 

Others  &  Honorary 
Totals 

979 

6 
995 

10 

8,000 
$300,000 

425.00 

10,347 

$87,824.00 

$  88.27 

Matching  Gifts 

88 

6,170.00 

GRAND  TOTAL 

$93,994.00 

In  addition  to  the  above  amount. 

we  have  received  $68,443.31  in 

bequests. 

lj  E  WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


3M@DMSIliaM@- 


Careers  in  Trouble? 


a  new  alumni  placement 
counseling  service 

by  Olle  H.  Halttunen,  '45 
Vice-President  for  University  Relations 


Today's  headlines  talk  about  inflation,  recession,  and  rising 
unemployment  among  engineers.  Should  we  recommend 
engineering  as  a  profession  to  our  children  or  to  the 
children  of  our  friends?  If  we  ourselves  are  faced  with  the 
need  to  find  new  employment,  how  do  we  go  about  it?  It  is 
to  these  two  questions  that  this  article  addresses  itself. 

Is  engineering  a  good  profession  for  the  future?  First, 
let  us  recognize  that  the  headlines  dealing  with  joblessness 
among  engineers  usually  refer  to  unemployment  resulting 
from  military  and  space  program  cutbacks.  The  major 
pockets  of  engineering  unemployment  are  in  Boston  (Route 
128),  Los  Angeles  (the  aerospace  industry),  Florida  (the 
space  program)  and  Seattle  (Air  Force  cutbacks  and  the 
SST  slow-down).  Because  of  the  number  of  engineers 
employed  in  military  and  space  programs,  this  is  a  major 
problem.  But  will  it  continue  into  the  foreseeable  future? 
Not  likely.  Unless  the  SALT  talks  produce  meaningful 
disarmament  (a  doubtful  hope),  the  many  programs  neces- 
sary to  national  military  preparedness  will  have  to  be 
reaccelerated.  Certainly  the  solution  of  our  environmental 
problems  will  command  an  increasing  amount  of  our 
national  resources  —  and  these  problems  have  a  large 
technological  content.  Moreover,  our  expanding  technology 
and  increasingly  complex  society  will  demand  more  people 
with  strong  educational  backgrounds  in  science  and  engi- 
neering. No,  our  present  problems  are  bound  to  be 
transitory  —  people  with  scientific  training  will  be  increas- 
ingly in  demand  as  we  move  into  the  future. 

So  the  future  looks  bright,  but  yet  an  individual  is  faced 
with  unemployment.  What  should  he  do?  At  WPI  we  are 
taking  steps  to  help  our  alumni  answer  this  very  troubling 
personal  question.  Wc  offer  two  different  approaches. 


18 


The  first  revolves  around  the  WPI  Placement  Office  and 
its  director,  William  F.  Trask.  Many  of  you  obtained  your 
first  jobs  through  this  office  when  you  graduated  from  WPI. 
This  office  now  maintains  contacts  with  about  500  indus- 
trial personnel  directors  around  the  country,  about  300  of 
whom  have  recruited  on  the  WPI  campus  at  one  time  or 
another.  While  this  year  only  about  200  companies  have 
been  actively  recruiting  on  campus,  we  believe  this  number 
will  increase  again  as  the  economy  improves. 

The  WPI  Placement  Office  also  maintains  contact  with 
GRAD  (Graduate  Resume  Accumulation  and  Distribution) 
which  is  operated  by  the  College  Placement  Council,  Inc. 
Through  this  system,  an  individual  can  place  a  resume  in 
the  hands  of  hundreds  of  companies  at  no  cost  to  the 
individual  himself.  The  individual,  if  he  so  desires,  may 
exclude  his  present  employer  from  this  distribution. 

Both  Bill  Trask's  contacts  and  the  GRAD  program  arc 
especially  suited  for  graduating  seniors  and  recent  graduates 
(within  five  years).  These  systems  have  been  of  assistance  to 
graduates  who  have  been  out  for  five  to  ten  years,  but  the 
available  opportunities  tend  to  diminish  as  the  number  of 
years  since  graduation. 

The  second  approach  addresses  itself  to  the  alumnus 
who  has  been  out  of  school  for  ten  years  or  more,  or  who 
perhaps  has  advanced  professionally  to  a  level  where  his  job 
search  requires  a  more  sophisticated  approach.  I  hasten  to 
add  that  this  type  of  job  search  requires  an  active  role  on 
the  part  of  the  job-seeker  and  that  WPI's  role  must 
necessarily  be  one  of  acting  as  advisor.  But,  for  many 
people,  dial  role  of  the  active  job-seeker  is  a  strange  one, 
and  even  the  writing  of  a  resume  becomes  a  frightening 
task.  And  so  we  stand  ready  to  offer  guidance  and  support 


for  your  efforts. 

As  a  first  consideration,  you  should  be  aware  of  how 
positions    are    filled.    The    following    table    of    recruiting 
methods  is  given  in  Auren  Uris'  book  The  Executive  Job 
Market  (New  York:  McGraw-Hill,  1965). 
promotion  from  within  63% 

executive  employment  agency  41% 

personal  referral  by  an  outside  source  47% 

position  available  advertising  by  the  company  35% 

executive  search  firm  34% 

The  total  exceeds  100%  because  many  firms  use  more 
than  one  method. 

How  then  should  you  proceed  in  this  most  important 
sales  task  of  your  life?  We  suggest  four  steps: 
1.    Write  a  resume 

Describe  the  kinds  of  positions  or  businesses  which 
fit  your  talents. 

Decide  what  geographical  limitations  you  wish  to 
observe. 

Plan      a      program      for     contacting     prospective 
employers. 
To   assist  you  in  performing  these  tasks,  we  offer  a 
package  of  valuable  guides.  For  example,  the  offering  will 


2. 


4. 


include  some  helpful  hints  on  how  to  write  a  resume,  how 
to  get  them  reproduced  attractively  and  inexpensively,  and 
even  contain  a  sample  of  a  well-done  resume.  The  offering 
will  include  names  of  the  executive  recruiters  to  whom  you 
might  send  your  resume.  (There  are  from  1000  to  1500 
such  recruiters  active  in  the  United  States  at  this  time,  but 
it  is  an  ever-changing  list.)  In  addition,  we  will  describe  how 
to  use  Standard  and  Poor's  Register  and  other  sources  of 
information  relative  to  potential  employers  to  contact. 
There  is  no  charge  for  the  service. 

The  next  step  is  up  to  you.  If  you  are  in  the  market  for 
a  job,  drop  us  a  note  outlining  your  objectives  and 
including  your  resume.  If  you  have  geographical  limitations, 
please  state  them.  We  will  then  send  you  the  information 
described  above  and  place  your  resume  in  a  confidential 
file.  We  also  hope  that  those  of  you  who  are  seeking 
employees  will  keep  us  posted  of  job  opportunities  you 
may  have  so  that  we  can  refer  alumni  to  you  when  there  is 
an  obvious  match  of  need  and  talent. 

May  all  alumni  be  blessed  with  work  which  is  rewarding 
and  challenging  and  filled  with  opportunities  for  advance- 
ment. If  this  is  not  the  case,  and  you  want  our  help,  write 
to  the  Alumni  Placement  Counseling  Service,  WPI. 


IfHE  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


A  PHOTOGRAPHIC  ESSAY 
BY  RUSSELL  KAY 


:/■•;"''. 


■■ 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


fe 


1 


•  ■    ■ 


I 


/ 


THE  WPI  JOURW' 


i  WPI  JOURNAL 


WHERE  WE  STAND 
Higher  Education  Today 


WPI  has  a  number  of  problems,  financial  and  otherwise. 
Most  people  connected  with  the  college  are  aware  of  these, 
and  we  try  to  keep  our  alumni  and  parents  well-informed 
on  our  condition.  But  before  anything  further  is  said  about 
our  problems,  it  seems  high  time  to  put  them  in  perspec- 
tive. For  WPI  is  fortunate  compared  to  many  schools.  The 
overall  situation  of  higher  education  in  this  country  has 
never  been  more  troubled. 

To  a  very  considerable  degree,  the  colleges  and  univer- 
sities in  our  country  reflect  the  divisions  and  problems  of 
the  larger  society.  This  is  often  painful  and  unpleasant,  but 
in  many  ways  it  is  a  very  useful,  even  proper,  role. 
Consider,  for  example,  the  other  institutions  of  society.  Are 
there  any  that  do  not  share  this  type  of  turmoil?  The 
family,  the  church,  public  schools,  the  courts,  and  the 
political  machinery  all  are  feeling  the  tremendous  pressures 
of  change.  All  are  struggling  to  adapt  to  needs  and  problems 
that  no  society  in  history  has  faced. 

But  the  "public's"  response  to  the  problems  of  higher 
education,  in  contrast  to  the  reaction  to  the  similar 
problems  of  other  social  institutions,  is  most  alarming. 
More  often  than  not  the  response  has  been  simple  with- 
drawal if  not  downright  repudiation.  For  example.  Alumni 
contributions  to  most  colleges  are  down.  And  even  where 
the  dollar  amount  has  not  decreased,  very  often  the  number 
of  alumni  who  contribute  to  their  alma  mater  has  de- 
creased. This  is  an  unhealthy  situation.  WPI  is  much  better 
off  than  most.  This  year's  Alumni  Fund  shows  significant 
gains  over  last  year. 

The  waves  of  disruption  and  protest  that  have  been 
evident  on  the  nation's  campuses  for  the  last  several  years, 
together  with  the  violent  actions  of  some  radicals,  have 
alienated  many  people. 

The    "public,"    by    means    of    the    state    and    federal 

legislatures,  has  quite  clearly  registered  its  displeasure  with 

and    disapproval    Of    institutions    of   higher   education.    By 

restricting  government  support       CO  both  public  and  private 

ols        these  legislatures  arc  using  their  budget  alloca- 


tions and  spending  programs  to  "punish"  colleges  and 
universities  for  their  sins. 

Complicating  the  problem  is  the  so-called  generation 
gap,  the  differences  in  life-styles  of  today's  students  and 
their  parents.  This  has  raised  a  screen  between  young  and 
old  and  made  communication  terribly  difficult.  But  it  is 
nonetheless  true,  though  many  would  rather  not  hear  it, 
that  the  current  generation  of  young  people  will,  before 
many  more  years,  run  this  nation.  The  young  people  are 
here,  and  they  cannot  be  traded  in  for  a  quieter,  more 
polite,  more  docile  group.  And  there's  another  side  to  this 
problem.  For,  as  was  recently  stated  in  a  public-service  ad 
in  Time,  the  situation  is  the  direct  result  of  the  older 
generation.  "And  you're  still  working  on  it.  Because  you've 
brought  up  your  children  to  believe  in  human  rights  and 
peace  and  justice  as  no  generation  has  before.  But  you 
forgot  to  tell  them  that  while  you  believed  in  all  these 
things,  you  weren't  in  all  that  much  of  a  hurry  to  make 
them  come  true. 

"These  kids  aren't  waiting.  They  have  the  kind  of  active 
concern  for  our  country  most  of  us  didn't  have  until  we 
were  working,  married  and  voting.  In  awareness,  education, 
economic  advantages,  mobility  and  social  experience,  no 
generation  has  ever  been  so  close  to  its  ciders.  And  that's 
where  the  problem  is.  Today's  kids  in  their  teens  and 
twenties  are  political  and  social  adults.  There  isn't  a 
generation  gap.  There's  a  generation  overlap." 

Our  faith  in  our  students  here  is  evident  in  the  WPI  PLAN, 
which  will  give  each  student  a  greater  say  in  what  his 
education  is  and  what  it  will  mean  to  him.  Experience  has 
shown  that  most  students  are  far  more  responsible  and 
sensible  than  main'  of  their  off  campus  elders  give  them 
credit  for  being.  A  person  develops  responsibility  only  by 
exercising  it.  We  recognize  this  fact,  and  the  WPI  PLAN  will 
work  toward  that  end.  And  it  is  most  gratifying  that  our 
alumni  and  all  the  corporations  and  foundations  that 
support  us  have  rallied  behind  the  WPI  PI  AN. 


24 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI 


THE  MONEY 

But  the  problems  of  the  nation's  colleges  and  universities 
are  far  deeper  than  a  momentary  lapse  of  public  con- 
fidence. For  even  with  the  full  confidence  of  the  American 
people,  most  of  the  institutions  of  higher  education  in  the 
country  would  be  having  financial  difficulties.  Without  the 
public's  confidence,  it  is  becoming  increasingly  apparent 
that  large  numbers  of  those  institutions  simply  cannot 
i  survive. 

FACT:   Tufts  University  has  eliminated  its  school  of 

theology. 
FACT:    Saint  Louis  University  has  closed  its  school 
of  dentistry  and  is  phasing  out  its  school  of 
engineering. 
FACT:   Case  Western  Reserve  University  has  termi- 
nated its  graduate  physical  therapy  program. 
FACT:   Reed  College  is  cutting  the  size  of  its  student 

body  and  raising  its  student-faculty  ratio. 
FACT:  43  of  the  nation's  107  medical  schools  are  in 
such  severe  financial  troubles  that  they  are 
receiving  "disaster  grants"  from  the  federal 
government. 
FACT:   More  than  20  institutions  of  higher  education 

closed  their  doors  last  year. 
FACT:    About   one-fourth   of  all   private  liberal  arts 
colleges  in  the  nation  are  now  drawing  on 
their   endowments   in   one   way   or  another 
simply  to  meet  current  expenses. 

The  financial  situation  of  colleges  and  universities  was 
dark  in  1968;  in  1971  it  is  either  critical  or  impossible.  WPI 
has  operated  at  a  loss  for  the  past  four  years.  This  year  we 
are  spending  some  $500,000  more  than  we  are  taking  in. 

Even  the  rich  institutions  are  in  trouble.  Harvard,  Yale, 
MIT,  all  are  having  to  dip  into  their  endowment  funds. 
What  happens  when  the  pot  runs  dry?  Yale  president 
Kingman  Brewster  foresees  that,  if  the  present  drying-up  of 
money  continues  for  another  year,  Yale  "would  either  have 
to  abandon  the  quality  of  what  we  are  doing,  or  abandon 
great  discernible  areas  of  activity,  or  abandon  the  effort  to 
be  accessible  on  the  merits  of  talent,  not  of  wealth,  or  of 
i  race,  or  of  inheritance."  As  of  this  academic  year,  Yale 
announced  a  freeze  on  hiring  until  further  notice  —  no  new 
positions,  and  no  replacements  for  vacancies.  Yale's  prob- 
lem is  far  from  unique.  Paul  Simon,  lieutenant-governor  of 


1  IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Illinois,  has  predicted  that  unless  state  governments  provide 
financial  assistance,  some  one-third  of  the  nation's  private 
colleges  may  go  out  of  existence  by  the  end  of  the  decade. 
Clark  Kerr,  chairman  of  the  Carnegie  Commission  on 
Higher  Education,  recently  announced  the  commission's 
finding  that  two-thirds  of  all  U.S.  colleges  and  universities 
were  in  financial  difficulty  or  headed  toward  it  full-tilt.  The 
Reverend  Theodore  M.  Hesburgh,  president  of  Notre  Dame, 
says:  "Never  before  has  the  university  taken  on  more  tasks, 
and  been  asked  to  undertake  many  more,  while  the  sources 
of  support,  both  public  and  private,  both  moral  and 
financial,  seem  to  be  drying  up." 

The  federal  government  has  drastically  cut  back  its 
support  of  higher  education,  whether  for  research,  con- 
struction, or  student  financial  aid.  This  has  been  sharply 
felt  at  WPI  this  year.  While  financial  support  from 
corporations,  foundations,  and  alumni  is  significantly 
higher  than  last  year,  the  difference  in  the  amount  of 
government  funds  has  wiped  out  that  gain. 


TECHNOLOGY  IN  THE  U.S. 

It  is  true  that  a  considerable  part  of  the  nation's  technologi- 
cal progress  has  been  solidly  based  on  the  scientific  work, 
the  scientific  education,  of  schools  such  as  WPI.  To  the 
degree  that  we  —  and  other  universities  —  are  weakened, 
that  much  will  the  country's  scientific  advancement  be 
slowed.  Because  of  cutbacks  now  being  made  in  scientific 
research,  the  United  States  may  lose  its  scientific  and 
technological  leadership  —  and  perhaps  its  economic  well- 
being  —  in  the  years  and  decades  to  come.  Teams  of 
scientists  and  technicians,  painstakingly  organized  over  the 
years,  are  now  being  split  up  and  scattered.  The  educational 
and  training  programs  that  have  always  provided  the  nation 
with  its  scientific  manpower  are  stumbling,  and  some  are 
being  forced  to  shut  down. 

But  there  is  hope  for  the  future.  There  seems  to  be  a 
clearly  discernible  turn  in  national  policy  and  national 
goals,  away  from  military  and  defense-oriented  research, 
away  from  the  relatively  speculative  and  more  remote  areas 
such  as  the  space  program,  to  the  more  direct  and  pressing 
concerns  of  cleaning  up  the  environment  and  making  the 
cities  of  the  country  safe,  healthy,  and  sane  places  to  live 
in.  With  this  change  in  mind,  the  National  Science 
Foundation  has  shifted  the  emphasis  in  some  of  its  major 


25 


programs  toward  the  environmental  and  social  sciences.  It 
should  be  realized,  however,  that  institutions  which  are 
forced  into  major  retrenchment  to  offset  growing  deficits 
will  be  seriously  hampered  in  their  efforts  to  help  solve 
these  urgent  social  problems. 

The  shift  toward  environmental  sciences  is  clearly 
evident  here  at  WPI.  The  newly  formed  Environmental 
Systems  Study  Program  began  operation  in  February  with 
23  students  working  off-campus  on  real  problems  con- 
cerning air  pollution  and  water  pollution.  This  is  a 
prototype  of  the  project  side  of  the  WPI  PLAN.  Some  25 
students  have  been  working,  on  their  own,  with  the 
Worcester  Health  Department  all  year  to  help  stop  and 
correct  the  pollution  of  Salisbury  Pond.  The  Clean  Air  Car 
Race  was  yet  another  example  that  there  is  a  considerable 
degree  of  student  and  institutional  concern  for  the  environ- 
ment here  at  WPI.  Toward  this  end,  a  faculty  committee 
headed  up  by  Prof.  Theodore  Crusberg  is  studying  WPI's 
long-range  objectives  and  needs  in  the  biological  sciences  — 
a  necessary  part  of  any  environmental  program.  In  the 
meantime,  exploratory  courses  in  biology  have  been  of- 
fered, and  students  can  cross-register  for  biology  courses  at 
Clark  and  Holy  Cross. 


WHAT  CAN  YOU  DO? 

It  has  become  far  too  clear  in  the  last  couple  of  years  that 
too  few  Americans,  both  on  and  off  campus,  understand 
the  real  nature  of  colleges  and  universities,  how  they 
function,  the  way  in  which  they  are  governed,  why  they  are 


and  must  be  centers  for  exploration,  criticism,  and  con- 
troversy —  and  why  they  must  always  be  free.  If  a  major 
disaster  for  higher  education  and  for  society  is  to  be 
averted,  then  moderate  Americans  in  every  walk  of  life 
must  make  their  voices  heard  and  their  influence  felt. 

Alumni,  because  of  their  own  educational  experience 
and  their  special  relationship  to  colleges,  have  a  very 
important  role  to  play  in  helping  to  restore  public 
confidence  in  higher  education.  They  can  make  a  special 
effort  to  inform  themselves  and  to  understand,  and  they 
can  share  that  knowledge  and  understanding  with  their 
fellow  citizens.  The  mass-media  image  of  higher  education 
is  all  that  many  people  ever  get,  and  in  their  lack  of 
knowledge  people  are  too  ready  to  believe  the  worst.  The 
tremendous  positive  contributions  that  colleges  have  made 
in  the  past  are  forgotten.  Here  is  where  alumni  —  ours  and 
everyone's  —  can  make  an  important  contribution.  They 
can  seek  to  cool  tempers  and  to  restore  perspective.  They 
can  challenge  and  correct  misinformation  and  misconcep- 
tions. They  can  do  much  to  restore  the  public  confidence. 

For  alumni  do  understand,  by  and  large,  and  they  do 
support  their  schools.  One  very  surprising  thing,  to  many,  is 
not  that  some  alumni  are  withdrawing  their  support  of  their 
alma  maters,  but  that  so  many  are  continuing  to  support 
their  schools  right  through  the  crises  and  the  turmoil. 

Yes,  we  consider  that  WPI  is  among  the  more  fortunate 
of  American  colleges.  We  enjoy  the  support,  both  moral 
and  financial,  of  our  alumni.  The  campus  has  been  peaceful. 
WPI  students  are  genuinely  interested  in  getting  an  educa- 
tion and  in  using  it  to  help  themselves  and  their  world.  Life 
isn't  easy  for  any  of  us  these  days  —  you  or  WPI  —  but 
having  your  backing  does  make  the  burden  lighter.  Thanks. 


26 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI*;ll?i 


ALUMNI  COUNCIL 
PICKS  TRUSTEES 

The  WPI  Alumni  Council  at  their 
winter  meeting  on  February  16, 
nominated  Howard  C.  Warren, 
'42,  to  the  WPI  Board  of  Trus- 
tees. The  Council  renominated 
James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr.,  '45,  and 
Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37,  who  have 
both  served  on  the  board  since 
1966. 

Warren  is  president  of  Scam 
Corporation,  which  in  1969  ac- 
quired control  of  Riley  Stoker 
Corporation  in  Worcester.  Cler- 
kin is  executive  vice  president  for 
telephone  operations  of  General 
Telephone  and  Electronics  in 
New  York.  Harvey  is  president  of 
Harvey  and  Tracy,  Inc.,  con- 
sulting engineers  in  Worcester. 


71  -  72  BUDGET  APPROVED 

The  WPI  trustees  have  approved 
an  $11  million  budget  for  next 
year  at  their  winter  meeting. 
According  to  president  George 
W.  Hazzard,  the  budget  will  be 
balanced  if  the  college  can  meet 

lits      fund-raising      objective     of 

'$570,000. 

"The  budget  for  the  1971-72 
college  year  will  be  very  tight, 
but  it  represents  the  minimum 
realistic  expenditure  necessary  to 
provide   the   high   quality  scien- 

i  tific  and  engineering  education 
that  our  students  deserve  and 
expect,"  said  Dr.  Hazzard. 


CLEAN  AIR  CARS  ON  TOUR 


The  WPI  hybrid-electric  Gremlin 
which  shared  first  place  in  its 
division  of  the  Clean  Air  Car 
Race  last  summer  (see  the  Fall 
1970  Journal)  spent  nine  days  on 
display  at  the  Chicago  Auto 
Show,  one  of  the  largest  in  the 
country.  Some  one  million 
people  attended.  Its  appearance 
was  sponsored  by  the  American 
Oil  Company,  whose  lead-free 
gas  the  car  burns. 

With  the  car  were  WPI  stu- 
dents and  Clean  Air  Car  team 
members    Steven    Clarke,   David 


Nowak,  William  Medeiros,  and 
Allen  Downs.  Not  to  mention 
Sandy  Wolsfeld  -  Miss  World, 
USA. 

In  January,  the  WPI  "Pro- 
pane Gasser,"  the  cleanest  car  in 
the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race, 
was  displayed  at  the  Society  of 
Automotive  Engineers  Engineer- 
ing Congress  and  Exposition  at 
Detroit.  Sponsored  by  the  Na- 
tional Liquified  Gas  Association, 
the  car  was  seen  by  almost 
50,000  people. 


"W.RI.  Electric  Hybrid" 


President  Hazzard  noted  that 
the  fund-raising  objective  is 
about  equal  to  the  amount  of 
yearly  operating  funds  used  for 
scholarship  aid.  This  is  in  addi- 
tion to  endowed  scholarship  sup- 
port. Total  scholarship  aid  to 
WPI  students  exceeds  $1  million 
per  year. 


Discussing  this  year's  fund- 
raising  program,  the  president 
reported  that  gifts  from  corpora- 
tions and  foundations  were  up 
significantly  this  year  over  last. 
This  is  offset,  however,  by  cuts 
in  federal  government  support, 
particularly  in  programs  of  finan- 
cial assistance  to  students. 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


WINTER  WEEKEND  HAS  SPRING  WEATHER 


WEISS  GETS  GRANT 

Alvin  Weiss,  Professor  of 
Chemical  Engineering,  has  just 
been  awarded  a  two-year, 
$129,000  grant  from  the  Envi- 
ronmental Protection  Agency  of 
the  U.  S.  government  to  study 
methods  of  producing  crude  oil 
from  solid  waste  materials  — 
trash  and  garbage.  Working 
primarily  with  cellulose  wastes, 
which  comprise  about  46  percent 
of  garbage,  Prof.  Weiss  will  in- 
vestigate methods  of  conversion 
starting  with  very  small,  labora- 
tory quantities,  and  working  up 
to  larger  operations  that  can 
process  100  to  200  pounds  of 
waste  a  day. 

Weiss  sees  this  study  as  be- 
coming increasingly  important  in 
the  years  to  come.  Although 
such  a  process  may  not  be  eco- 
nomically feasible  now,  the 
world's  supply  of  crude  oil  is 
dwindling  at  a  rate  that  will 
make  it  both  viable  and  neces- 
sary in  the  future.  The  object  of 
Weiss 's  study  is  not  to  produce 
barrels  of  oil  but  to  produce 
information. 

This  project  is  an  outgrowth 
of  two  previous  interests  of 
Weiss:  petroleum  technology  and 
food  synthesis.  Weiss  has  been 
studying  the  latter  for  several 
years  under  grants  from  NASA. 
The  project  combines  aspects  of 
both  of  these  previous  tech- 
nologies and  is  a  good  example 
of  a  beneficial  nonmilitary  spin- 
off from  the  space  program. 


28 


February  19-21  was  Winter 
Weekend  at  WPI.  Several  days  of 
40°  weather,  however,  made  it 
seem  more  like  spring.  Alpha 
Epsilon  Pi  sponsored  a  snow 
sculpture  contest,  which  was 
nearly  melted  out  by  the  unsea- 
sonable temperatures  and  washed 
out  by  rain.  First  prize  went  to 
Alpha  Tau  Omega's  rendition  of 
the  hookah-smoking  caterpillar 
from  Alice  in  Wonderland. 

Among  the  events  helped  by 
the  weather  was  a  Friday  night 
concert  by  Janet  Johnson,  folk 
singer  and  autoharpist,  and 
Quarry,  a  country-folk-rock 
group.  Saturday  afternoon  fea- 
tured varsity  wrestling  against 
Holy    Cross  and  fencing  against 


RPI,  while  basketball  against  Suf- 
folk rounded  out  the  day. 

Sunday  afternoon  the  Pacific 
Repertory  Company  presented 
two  plays  by  Eugene  Ionesco, 
The  Chairs  and  The  Lesson.  On 
Sunday  evening  there  was  a  con- 
cert in  Harrington  auditorium 
with  Jo  Mama  and  Carole  King, 
featuring  James  Taylor.  This  was 
the  first  major  concert  on  cam- 
pus since  the  appearance  of  The 
Band  November  7,  which  was 
disrupted  by  "townies"  who 
wanted  to  get  in  without  paying. 
All  major  concerts  scheduled  be- 
tween then  and  now  had  been 
canceled.  Sunday's  concert  was 
without  incident. 


PEOPLE 


Kenneth  A.  Nourse  has  been 
appointed  Dean  of  Admissions. 
Dean  Nourse  was  formerly  Direc- 
tor of  Admissions  and  Associate 
Dean  of  Student  Affairs.  He  has 
been  at  WPI  since  1965. 

A  graduate  of  Middlebury 
College,  Dean  Nourse  is  a  past 
president  of  the  New  England 
Association  of  College  Admis- 
sions Counselors. 


Professor    John    P.   van    Alstyne 
has   been   named    Dean  of  Aca- 


demic Advising  in  the  office  of 
student  affairs.  In  this  position, 
Dean  van  Alstyne  will  be  the 
"executive  officer"  for  the  WPI 
PLAN,  and  will  oversee  the  fac- 
ulty advisory  system  and  the 
smooth  transfer  of  students  to 
the  WPI  PLAN. 

Dean  van  Alstyne  has  been 
acting  head  of  the  Mathematics 
Department  and  a  member  of  the 
committee  that  formulated  the 
WPI  PLAN.  He  is  a  graduate  of 
Hamilton  College  and  Columbia 
University. 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


PUBLICATIONS  DIRECTOR  NAMED 


H.  Russell  Kay,  28,  has  joined 
the  WPI  staff  as  Director  of 
Publications. 

In  the  newly  created  posi- 
tion, he  will  supervise  the  design 
and  production  of  catalogs,  edu- 
cational program  announce- 
ments, and  other  printed  mate- 
rial, as  well  as  edit  the  WPI 
Journal. 

He  was  formerly  an  assistant 
editor  at  Northwestern  Univer- 
sity Press,  Evanston,  Illinois.  Be- 
fore that  he  was  a  photographer 
with   World  Book  Encyclopedia 


and  a  photojournalist  with  Day 
Publications. 

Mr.  Kay  earned  an  AB  in 
English  from  the  University  of 
Chicago  in  1965.  He  and  his  wife 
Harriet  served  as  Peace  Corps 
volunteers  in  a  public-health 
project  in  Mato  Grosso,  Brazil, 
during  1964-65. 

Mrs.  Kay  has  also  joined  the 
WPI  staff,  as  secretary  to  Dean  of 
Undergraduate  Programs  William 
R.    Grogan. 


BEALL  NAMED  TO  NEW  KINNICUTT  CHAIR 


Herbert  Beall,  assistant  professor 
of  chemistry,  has  been  named 
the  first  recipient  of  the  Leonard 
P.  Kinnicutt  Chair.  Dr.  Beall  is  a 
graduate  of  the  University  of 
Wisconsin,  and  he  received  his 
doctorate  at  Harvard. 

The  Kinnicutt  Chair  is  de- 
signed to  encourage  younger 
faculty  members  in  their  profes- 
sional development  at  WPI.  It  is  a 
three-year  revolving  appoint- 
ment, with  selection  by  the  Pres- 
ident on  recommendation  of  the 
Dean  of  Faculty,  with  nomina- 
tions by  department  heads. 

A  special  fund  of  up  to 
$1,000  a  year  will  be  provided  to 
each  recipient  for  materials  and 
equipment,  publication,  profes- 
sional travel,  student  support,  or 
any  professional  need  other  than 
personal  salary. 

Leonard  P.  Kinnicutt  was  a 


WPI  professor  of  chemistry  from 
1882  to  1911.  In  commenting  on 
the  Kinnicutt  Chair,  President 
Hazzard  said  that  while  Professor 
Kinnicutt  was  a  chemist,  his  con- 
cern with  the  applications  of 
chemistry  were  broad  enough  to 
warrant  the  recognition  of  non- 
chemist  faculty  members  through 
his  name.  "I  hope  major  attention 
can  be  paid  to  a  person's  potential 
for  teaching,  research,  and 
societal  concern  —  like  Professor 
Kinnicutt's  —  than  to  a  narrower 
view." 

President  Hazzard  continued, 
"the  Leonard  P.  Kinnicutt  Chair 
is  intended  to  provide  unusually 
talented  and  motivated  younger 
faculty  members  with  recogni- 
tion, some  financial  resources  for 
professional  development,  and  a 
challenge  to  enter  upon  exem- 
plary professional  careers." 


WPI  GETS  "CIVILISED" 

Civilisation,  the  award-winning 
BBC  film  series  conceived  and 
narrated  by  Sir  Kenneth  Clark, 
played  last  month  in  the  Seminar 
Room  at  Gordon  Library.  The 
13  segments  trace  the  rise  of 
Western  civilization  from  Greco- 
Roman  times  to  the  present 
through  the  medium  of  art.  More 
than  just  art  history,  the  series 


shows  the  interrelations  between 
art  and  life-styles  as  they  have 
existed  in  every  period.  The 
series  was  shown  on  NET  last 
fall. 


War  and  Peace  —  the  6V4  hour 
short  version  of  the  Russian  film 
—  inaugurated  a  series  of  films 


dealing  with  the  subject  that  will 
continue  throughout  the  semes- 
ter. It  was  shown  in  two  parts  on 
successive  evenings. 

The  series  featured  films 
ranging  from  Eisenstein's  classic 
Alexander  Nevsky  to  Stanley  Ku- 
brick's Dr.  Strangelove,  or  How  I 
Learned  to  Stop  Worrying  and 
Love  the  Bomb. 


I  THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


mm  mm 


WRESTLING  TEAM 
TIES  CAMPUS  RECORDS 

With  a  record  of  7  and  4,  the 
wrestling  team  tied  the  all-time 
record  for  victories  set  in 
1968-69.  With  287  team  points, 
there  was  a  tie  for  the  record 
number  of  points  scored  in  a 
season.  The  48  to  0  win  over 
Brandeis  set  a  new  record  as  the 
first  shutout  and  best  win.  The 
33  team  pins  set  a  new  all-time 
record  for  a  WPI  Wrestling 
season. 

It  was  no  surprise  when 
Coach  Lenny  Polizzotto  was 
named  the  Rookie  Coach  of  the 
Year  by  the  New  England  Inter- 
collegiate Wrestling  Association. 
Lenny  graduated  from  WPI  last 
June  and  accepted  the  coaching 
assignment  when  John  Vino  left 
last  summer.  Aside  from  coach- 
ing, Lenny  is  a  full-time  graduate 
student  in  electrical  engineering. 
This  winter,  he  became  a  pub- 
lished author.  Cimino  Publica- 
tions Inc.  have  brought  out  Off 
Beat  Drumming,  in  two  volumes, 
which  Lenny  prepared  from 
notes  he  used  in  teaching  drum- 
ming to  students  while  he  was 
still  in  high  school. 

Wrestling  record : 

WPI  Opponent 

48  Brandeis  0 

10  Coast  Guard  Acad.  28 

35  Tufts  11 

16  Boston  University  20 

33  Williams  11 

18  M.I.T.  24 

35  U.  Hartford  9 

23  Lowell  Tech  21 

40  Holy  Cross  7 

6  U.  Massachusetts  30 

23  Dartmouth  21 


BASKETBALL  TEAM  ENDS 
SECOND  WINNING  SEASON 

Basketball  Coach  Jim  Herrion 
had  reason  for  his  big  smile  when 
WPI  beat  Brandeis  91  to  90  in 
double  overtime  to  clinch  a  win- 
ning season  on  March  2  even 
though  they  dropped  the  final 
game  of  the  season  two  nights 
later  to  Amherst  86  to  74.  It  was 
his  second  winning  season  in  the 
two  years  he's  been  coach. 

Senior  Tim  Rooney  from 
Ludlow,  Mass.,  was  voted  WPI's 
most  valuable  player  by  the 
Worcester  sports  writers.  He 
played  in  every  game  and  had  an 
average  of  16.5  points  per  game. 
John  O'Brien,  a  junior  from 
Charlestown,  Mass.,  was  close  be- 
hind with  16.4  points  per  game. 
Senior  Ed  Cunningham  from 
Waterbury,  Conn.,  who  was  co- 
captain  with  Rooney,  scored  an 
average  of  13.9  points.  Steve 
Watson,  a  junior  from  Syosset, 
N.Y.,  was  the  fourth  WPI  player 
to  average  more  than  10  points 
per  game  with  11.9. 

Play  throughout  the  winter 
was  marked  by  teamwork  rather 
than  by  individual  stars.  How- 
ever, this  year's  graduation  will 
require  a  complete  rebuilding  for 
1971-72  since  this  was  the  last 
season  for  Rooney,  Cunningham, 
Watson,  Don  Backlund,  and  John 
Anderson. 

The    record    for    the  season 
was: 
WPI 
87 
90 
68 
53 
58 


Wesleyan 

Tufts 

Assumption 

Springfield 

U.  New  Hampshire 


Opponent 
78 
82 
94 
71 
72 


74 

Bowdoin 

72 

68 

Clark 

73 

71 

Bowdoin 

63 

72 

Williams 

71 

84 

Bates 

82 

80 

Colby 

70 

63 

AIC 

65 

94 

Lowell  Tech 

96 

51 

M.I.T. 

66 

78 

Trinity 

73 

88 

Suffolk 

67 

66 

Boston  Univ. 

90 

68 

Coast  Guard 

58 

71 

Clark 

77 

91 

Brandeis 

90 

74 

Amherst 
CLUB  SPORTS 

86 

The  Fencing  Club  enjoyed  a  4 
and  3  season  and  placed  sixth  in 
the  New  England  Tournament  at 
the  end  of  the  season.  Only  one 
team  member  will  graduate  this 
year  and  three  freshmen  with 
previous  experience  have  joined 
the  team.  This  is  the  second 
winning  season  in  a  row  for  the 
relatively  new  Fencing  Club. 

The  Hockey  Club  won  6 
while  losing  7  during  the  season, 
but  within  the  Worcester  County 
Hockey  League  they  won  5  and 
lost  3.  The  club  is  hampered  by 
limited  and  expensive  ice  time  on 
the  local  area  for  practice,  but  in 
this  respect  they  have  a  common 
problem  with  the  other  teams  in 
the  local  league. 

In  skiing,  Bryan  "Bucky" 
Kashiwa,  a  freshman  from  Old 
Forge,  N.Y.,  was  the  outstanding 
member  of  the  WPI  team.  Bucky, 
an  A  racer,  won  events  in  three 
of  the  five  meets  entered  and 
took  second  in  the  other  two.  In 
the  March  14  N.E.  Intercollegiate 
Ski  meet  at  Wilderness,  N.H.,  the 
team  placed  six  seconds  behind 
Princeton  in  the  Slalom  as 
Kashiwa  won  the  event.  Capt. 
Don  Tanana  is  the  only  member 
who  will  graduate  this  year.  The 
team  finished  the  season  with  no 
injuries  under  the  coaching  of 
Alan  King,  who  shifts  to  skis 
when  the  soccer  season  ends. 


30 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


SWIMMERS  SET 
NINE  RECORDS 

Coach  Carl  Peterson's  mermen 
won  6  meets  and  lost  2  for  one 
of  WPI's  best  swimming  seasons. 
Nine  WPI  varsity  records  fell 
during  the  season.  In  the  71-42 
win  over  Brandeis,  Bruce  Eteson, 
'72,  broke  his  own  record  in  the 
200  yard  breaststroke  with  a 
time  of  2:28.3.  In  the  same 
meet,  a  new  school  and  pool 
record  of  3:28.2  was  set  for  the 
400  yard  freestyle  relay  by  Steve 
Johnson,  Tom  Weil,  Al  Nafis, 
and  Dick  Ellis.  Divers  Bill 
Gemmer  and  Randy  Partridge 
have  been  in  contention  for  top 
place  in  diving  competition  all 
year,  with  the  rivalry  being 
frequently    between   themselves. 

Swimming    record    for    the 


year: 

WPI 

Opponent 

78 

Holy  Cross                 35 

61 

Babson                         51 

52 

Coast  Guard  Acad.    61 

62 

Northeastern              51 

73 

U.  Massachusetts       37 

62 

Trinity                        51 

71 

Brandeis                     42 

39 

Tufts                           73 

Our  Goal  for  the  Annual  Fund  is  $300,000 
Have  You  Helped  With  Your  Share? 

On  campus  we  are  doing  our  share,  with  no  salary  increases  for  our  faculty  and 
staff  next  year,  no  new  positions,  careful  pruning  of  expenses,  and  intensive 
solicitation  of  corporations  and  foundations. 

Yet  we  must  maintain  our  high  academic  quality.  More  income  is  required, 
along  with  prudent  management.  Your  support  is  essential  to  establish  a  balanced 
budget.  We  need  your  support  now  to  show  everyone  that  our  alumni  believe  in 
their  school. 

Please  make  contributions  payable  to  WPI  and  send  them  to  the  Alumni 
Office,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Thank 
you! 


Do  You  Live  in  Massachusetts? 

All  the  presidents  of  private  colleges  in  Massachusetts  are  trying,  through  AICUM 
(Association  of  Independent  Colleges  and  Universities  in  Massachusetts)  to  get 
the  state  to  increase  the  amount  of  money  for  student  scholarships  for  September 
1971  from  $3.5  million  to  $8  million. 

The  commonwealth  now  gives  the  $3.5  million  for  all  the  students  in  the 
state.  By  comparison,  Boston  University  alone  gives  $4  million  to  its  students. 
WPI  gives  over  $1  million  a  year  in  student  aid,  including  some  $650,000  in 
scholarships,  of  which  over  $300,000  has  to  be  taken  from  operating  expenses. 
This  is  a  staggering  amount.  If  you  are  in  a  position  to  make  your  voice  heard  in 
the  Massachusetts  legislature,  we  urge  you  to  support  the  request  for  supple- 
mentary allocation  of  funds  to  student  scholarships.  Private  education  is  a  way  of 
life  in  Massachusetts  and  in  the  nation.  We  all  need  to  preserve  it  and  support  it. 


Ly<*^     By 

^ST'    - 

i-^     .  H 

) 
— -^& 

_JB&-                mm 

Sow 

fif            ~^KI  111 

BHESL 

j^m%  mm*  K9  J    ■   '  *^^ 

_ 

— ~ 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


IN  MEMORY 


ROY  W.  MOORE,  '01 

Roy  W.  Moore,  '01  died  on  April  22, 
1970  in  Clearwater,  Florida  at  the  age  of  90. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  January  9, 
1880  and  attended  English  High  School 
before  entering  WPI  in  1897.  He  received  a 
BS  Degree  in  1901  and  a  Doctor  of  Science 
degree  in  Chemistry,  also  from  WPI,  in 
1904. 

He  was  an  Assistant  Instructor  in  Chem- 
istry at  MIT  for  one  year,  whereupon  he 
joined  the  General  Electric  Company  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  as  a  research  chemist, 
and  was  employed  by  them  for  40  years. 

Mr.  Moore  was  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Chemical  Society  and  a  past  officer  of 
the  Hudson-Mohawk  Alumni  Chapter. 

Mr.  Moore  is  survived  by  his  son,  Elliott 
S.  Moore  of  Largo,  Florida,  two  daughters, 
Mrs.  Eleanor  Leverett  of  Winchester,  Mass. 
and  Mrs.  Margaret  Baum  of  So.  Orange,  N.J. 

FRED  E.  HOLMES,  02 

Fred  E.  Holmes,  '02  passed  away  on 
October  16,  1970  in  Holden,  Mass.  at  the 
age  of  90. 

Born  in  Worcester  in  1879,  he  attended 
Worcester's  English  High  School  before 
entering  WPI  in  1898  where  he  majored  in 
Mechanical  Engineering.  Mr.  Holmes  retired 
in  1954  as  President  of  the  M.D.  Holmes  & 
Sons  Co.  after  50  years  with  that  company. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Masons,  First 
Baptist  Church  of  Worcester  and  was  a 
former  member  of  the  Rotary  Club. 

He  is  survived  by  one  son,  two  grand- 
children, a  sister  and  eight  great-grand- 
children. 

EDWARD  L.  STONE,  JR.,  '03 
Edward     L.    Stone,    Jr.,     '03    died    on 
January  7,  1971   in  Montclair,  N.J.  after  a 
brief  illness.  He  was  90  years  old. 

Born  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  November  18, 
1880,  Mr.  Stone  attended  Worcester  English 
High  School  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1903  with  a  BS  degree  in  Electrical  Engi- 
neering. While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 


Employed  by  the  New  York  Telephone 
Company  as  a  market  development  engineer 
from  1903  to  1910,  Mr.  Stone  spent  23 
years  with  the  American  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Company  as  a  commercial  engi- 
neer before  retiring  in  1933. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  The  Ameri- 
can Management  Association,  the  American 
Statistical  Society  and  was  also  active  in 
many  Boy  Scout  and  school  activities. 

He  leaves  two  grandchildren  and  two 
great-grandchildren. 


CHESTER  B.  STARBIRD,  '07 

Chester  B.  Starbird,  '07,  died  on  Decem- 
ber 13,  1970  at  the  age  of  89. 

Born  on  October  7,  1881  in  Buffalo, 
N.Y.,  he  graduated  from  WPI  in  1907  with  a 
BS  degree  in  Electrical  Engineering. 

A  veteran  of  World  War  I,  Mr.  Starbird 
spent  twenty-three  years  of  his  career  with 
the  Boston  Edison  Company  before  retiring 
December  1 ,  1946.  Following  his  retirement 
from  Boston  Edison,  he  worked  for  the 
Raytheon  Company  and  Jackson  &  More- 
land  Engineers.  Although  ill  for  about  a  year 
before  his  death,  he  was  still  vitally  inter- 
ested in  clean-air  engines  for  automobiles. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers,  and  was  also  a  Mason. 

He  is  survived  by  two  daughters. 


BERNARD  R.  ANDREWS,  '08 
Bernard   R.  Andrews,  '08  died  on   May 
28,  1970  in  Boston,  Mass.  He  was  83. 

Mr.  Andrews  was  born  in  Plymouth, 
Mass.  on  May  30,  1886  and  attended  Whit- 
man High  School  before  entering  WPI  in 
1904.  He  graduated  in  1908  with  a  BS 
degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering  and  while 
at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega  fraternity. 

He  worked  as  an  engineer  for  Buffalo 
Forge  Company,  American  Blower  Co.,  and 
B.  F.  Sturtevant  Co.  before  establishing  his 


own  firm,  the  former  Andrews  and  Good- 
rich Inc.,  of  Dorchester,  Mass.  in  1920.  The 
firm,  now  part  of  Midland-Ross  Corp., 
manufactured  heating  and  venting  machin- 
ery. He  retired  15  years  ago. 

An  active  citizen  of  Braintree,  Mass.,  he 
served  that  town  in  many  capacities  during 
his  long  residence  there.  He  was  also  a 
trustee  of  Thayer  Academy  for  several 
years,  and  a  past  Commodore  of  the  Stone 
Horse  Yacht  Club  in  Harwichport,  Mass. 

He  is  survived  by  his  son,  Bernard  R. 
Andrews,  Jr.,  two  granddaughters,  and  a 
great-granddaughter. 


HAROLD  F.  BIDWELL,  '08 

Harold  F.  Bidwell,  '08  passed  away  on 
October  20,  1970  at  the  age  of  85. 

Born  in  Manchester,  Conn.,  Mr.  Bidwell 
attended  Worcester  Academy  before  enter- 
ing WPI  in  1904  where  he  majored  in  civil 
engineering.  He  was  a  member  of  Delta  Tau 
fraternity,  now  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

Mr.  Bidwell  owned  and  operated  the 
former  Bidwell  Ice  Cream  Soda  Shop  in 
Manchester  for  20  years  prior  to  his  retire- 
ment. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs.  Lula 
M.  Bidwell,  a  daughter,  two  sons,  eight 
grandchildren    and  two  great-grandchildren. 


ERNEST  C.  WILLARD,  '08 

We  have  learned  of  the  death  of  Ernest 
C.  Willard,  '08  on  November  21,  1969  in 
Portland,  Oregon. 

Born  December  23,  1887  in  Leominster, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Groton  High  School 
before  entering  WPI  in  1904.  He  enjoyed  a 
varied  career  as  a  Consulting  Engineer  in  the 
Field  of  Public  Utilities. 

He  was  a  registered  Professional  Engi- 
neer in  many  states  and  was  active  in  many 
civic  affairs  in  Portland,  Oregon.  He  was  also 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of 
Multnomah  College  which  recently  merged 
with  the  University  of  Portland. 


32 


THE  WPI  JOURN/ 


MARTIN  H.  JACHENS,  '11 

Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Martin  H.  Jachens,  '11  on  June  21,  1969 
after  a  short  illness.  Mr.  Jachens  was  80. 

He  was  born  June  14,  1889  at  Brooklyn, 
N.Y.  and  attended  Brooklyn  Manual  Train- 
ing High  School  before  entering  WPI  in 
1907.  He  graduated  with  a  BS  degree  in 
Electrical  Engineering  in  1911  and  while  at 
WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega 
fraternity.  From  1911  to  1955  he  was 
employed  by  the  New  Jersey  Bell  Telephone 
Co. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Masons  and  was 
active  in  many  civic  organizations  in  his 
home  town  of  Leonia,  N.J. 

His  survivors  include  his  widow,  Lucy, 
one  daughter  and  two  sons. 

HAROLD  R.  WINTER, '11 

Harold  R.  Winter,  '11  passed  away  on 
September  19,  1970  in  Winthrop,  Mass. 

Born  in  Medford,  Mass.,  July  29,  1888, 
he  attended  Webster  High  School  before 
entering  WPI  in  1907,  where  he  majored  in 
civil  engineering  and  graduated  in  1911  with 
a  BS  degree.  He  was  a  member  of  Delta  Tau 
fraternity. 

During  his  business  career,  Mr.  Winter 
was  employed  for  eleven  years  as  Chief 
Engineer  for  the  A.  L.  Smith  Iron  Works  of 
Chelsea,  Mass.,  and  also  spent  twelve  years 
as  a  Structural  Engineer  with  Waghorne  & 
Brown  Co.  of  Boston,  Mass.  before  his 
retirement  in  1953.  He  had  served  over 
fifteen  years  as  a  Park  Commissioner  for  the 
Town  of  Winthrop,  Mass.,  and  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 

EDWARD  J.  DAHILL,  '13 

Edward  J.  Dahill,  '13,  an  engineer  who 
pioneered  in  developing  corrugated  paper 
packaging  for  fruit  and  produce,  died  on 
January  12,  1971  in  New  York  City.  He  was 
82. 

Born  in  Greenfield,  Mass.  on  January  1, 
1888,  he  attended  Fitchburg  Mass.  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  where  he 
majored  in  civil  engineering. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  Mr.  Dahill  was 
Director  of  Market  Research  for  the  Four- 
drinier  Kraftboard  Institute,  and  for  thirty 
years  prior  to  joining  that  organization,  had 
been  chief  engineer  with  the  American 
Association  of  Railroads  where  he  headed 
its  freight  loading  and  container  bureau 
while  new  methods  of  packaging  were  being 
tested  to  qualify  for  handling  in  rail  trans- 
portation. 

He  was  the  author  of  numerous  articles 
and  pamphlets  and  had  been  a  guest  lecturer 
at  many  colleges  and  universities  throughout 
North  America.  He  was  also  a  member  of 
ASTM,  SPHE  and  the  Transportation  Corp. 
He  had  also  served  the  New  York  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association  as  both  a  Vice 


President    and    was    President    during    1957 
and  1958. 

He  is  survived  by  four  sons,  a  sister  and 
twenty-three  grandchildren. 


SHERMAN  A.  GEER, '13 

Sherman  A.  Geer,  '13  died  on  January 
20,  1970  in  DeLand,  Florida.  Born  on 
August  6,  1890,  in  Dalton,  Mass.  he  at- 
tended Dalton  High  School  before  entering 
WPI  in  1908  where  he  majored  in  Electrical 
Engineering. 

Mr.  Geer  was  a  retired  equipment  engi- 
neer in  the  Long  Lines  Section  of  the 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  and 
had  been  employed  in  the  New  York  City 
office  for  thirty-six  years  prior  to  his  retire- 
ment in  February  of  1949. 


ALTON  H.  KINGMAN,  '13 

We  have  been  advised  of  the  death  of 
Alton  H.  Kingman,  '13  on  October  30, 
1970. 

Born  on  July  7,  1889,  in  Brockton, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Brockton  High  School 
and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1913  with  a  BS 
degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering.  Upon 
graduation,  he  accepted  a  position  in  Paw- 
tucket,  Rhode  Island  with  the  American 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  and  later  held 
various  supervisory  and  staff  assignments 
with  the  Boston,  New  Haven  and  New  York 
City  offices  of  that  company  until  his 
retirement  after  forty -one  years  with  them. 

He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  social  fraternity,  the  Telephone 
Pioneers  of  America  and  was  a  member  of 
St.  George  Lodge  AF&AM  of  Brockton, 
Mass. 

Surviving  him  are  his  wife,  Ethel  W. 
Kingman,  a  daughter,  a  son,  seven  grand- 
children and  one  great-grandson. 

JAMES  R.  LEONARD,  '13 

James  R.  Leonard,  '13  died  on  Novem- 
ber 5,  1970  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

Mr.  Leonard  was  born  May  16,  1891 
and  attended  Worcester  English  High  School 
before  entering  WPI  in  1909.  He  graduated 
from  New  York  University  School  of  Ac- 
counting and  was  an  accountant  all  his  life, 
serving  as  Assistant  Supervisor  in  the  Field 
Service  of  the  Massachusetts  Division  of 
Employment  Security  in  the  Worcester 
Office  when  he  retired  in  1961. 

He  was  a  veteran  of  the  United  States 
Navy,  World  War  I. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Elizabeth 
H.  Leonard,  and  a  sister. 


DONALD  M.  RUSSELL,  '13 

Donald  M.  Russell,  '13  passed  away  on 
October  8,  1970,  in   Philadelphia.   He  was 


79.  Born  in  Worcester,  Mass.  on  April  15, 
1891,  he  attended  South  High  School  in 
Worcester  before  entering  WPI  in  1909.  He 
received  his  degree  in  Electrical  Engineering 
and  was  elected  to  membership  in  Tau  Beta 
Pi  and  Sigma  Xi  honorary  societies.  At  the 
time  of  his  death,  he  was  an  inactive  partner 
of  Lybrand,  Ross  Bros.  &  Montgomery,  of 
New  York  City  and  had  previously  been 
employed  by  them  for  forty-eight  years 
prior  to  his  retirement  on  October  1,  1957. 

He  was  a  Past  President  of  the  Michigan 
Association  of  Public  Accountants  and  Past 
Vice  President  of  the  American  Institute  of 
CPA's  as  well  as  being  a  member  of  the 
Rotary  Club  and  the  Stuart-Cameron- 
MeLeod  Society  of  New  York. 

Surviving  him  are  his  wife,  Lillian  R., 
two  sons  and  a  sister. 


A.  FREDERICK  GRIFFIN, '14 

A.  Frederick  Griffin,  '14  died  on 
September  29,  1970  at  Glen  Ellyn,  Illinois. 
He  had  been  in  ill  health  for  a  number  of 
years. 

Born  in  Rensselaer,  N.Y.  on  December 
3,  1892,  Mr.  Griffin  majored  in  civil  engi- 
neering at  WPI  and  had  been  employed  by 
the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  for  34  years 
before  his  retirement  in  1960.  He  had  been 
the  Chief  Engineer  on  the  St.  Lawrence 
Seaway  Project  and  in  1945  he  received  the 
Exceptional  Civilian  Service  Award  for  Out- 
standing Performance.  He  was  a  Mason,  a 
member  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers  and  a  Registered  Professional 
Engineer. 

Survivors  include  a  daughter  and  a  sister. 


FRANK  H.  LITTLE, '15 

Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Frank  H.  Little,  '15  on  December  6,  1970  in 
Wareham,  Mass.  Mr.  Little  was  77. 

Born  in  Marion,  Mass.,  he  was  a  veteran 
of  World  War  I  and  was  a  former  resident  of 
Atlantic  City,  N.J.  where  he  worked  for  the 
Hotel  Traymore.  He  retired  three  years  ago 
and  moved  to  Wareham,  Mass. 

While  at  WPI,  he  was  a  member  of  Theta 
Chi  fraternity. 

Survivors  include  a  sister,  Mrs.  Sybil  E. 
Eldridge  of  Wareham. 


THEODORE  E.  KLOSS,  '16 

Theodore  E.  Kloss,  '16  passed  away  on 
November  14,  1970  in  Waterville,  Maine 
after  a  brief  illness.  He  was  77. 

Born  in  Millbury,  Mass.  on  November 
22,  1892,  Mr.  Kloss  majored  in  civil  engi- 
neering while  at  WPI  and  received  a  BS 
degree  from  the  University  of  Maine  in 
1917.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


33 


Widely  known  in  the  pulp  and  paper 
industry,  he  was  associated  with  the  pulp 
and  paper  industry  in  Canada  for  17  years 
and  then  was  General  Superintendent  of  the 
Bucksport,  Maine  plant  of  the  St.  Regis 
Paper  Co.  At  one  time  he  was  assistant  to 
the  manager  of  the  eastern  division  of  Scott 
Paper  Co.  at  Winslow,  Maine.  Following  his 
retirement,  he  served  as  a  consultant  for  the 
nitrogen  division  of  Allied  Chemical  Com- 
pany. 

He  was  a  50-year  member  of  the 
Masonic  Order  and  a  member  of  the  Anah 
Temple  Shrine  of  Bangor. 

Besides  his  wife,  he  is  survived  by  a  son, 
a  daughter,  a  brother,  a  sister  and  seven 
grandchildren. 


DONALD  K.OTIS, '17 

Donald  K.  Otis,  '17  passed  away  in 
Worcester,  Mass.  on  October  3,  1970.  A 
life-long  resident  of  Worcester,  he  was  borri 
on  May  24,  1893,  and  while  at  WPI  he 
majored  in  mechanical  engineering.  He  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity. 

He  was  employed  by  the  Union  Water 
Meter  Co.  of  Worcester  for  eighteen  years  as 
Assistant  Treasurer  and  Sales  Manager,  and 
prior  to  his  retirement,  he  was  employed  as 
the  Employment  Manager  for  Leland 
Gifford  Co. 

Survivors  include  his  widow.  Bertha  A. 
Otis. 

ELMER  T.  MITCHELL,  '18 

Elmer  T.  Mithcell,  '18  died  on  Decem- 
ber 10,  1970  in  Greenwich,  Conn,  at  the  age 
of  76  following  a  long  illness. 

A  native  and  life-long  resident  of  Green- 
wich, he  was  born  on  November  2,  1894 
and  graduated  from  WPI  with  a  degree  in 
electrical  engineering.  He  was  a  member  of 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha  fraternity. 

A  veteran  of  World  War  I,  he  worked  for 
the  Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co. 
after  being  discharged  from  the  armed  serv- 
ices, until  he  joined  his  family's  firm,  Peter 
Mitchell,  Inc.  in  Greenwich.  Active  in  many 
Greenwich  affairs,  he  was  a  past  President  of 
the  Lions  Club,  a  member  of  the  Greenwich 
Old  Timers  Athletic  Association  and  had 
also  served  as  President  of  the  Greenwich 
Builders  Association. 

Survivors  include  a  daughter,  two  sons, 
two  sisters,  four  brothers  and  eight  grand- 
children. 


STANLEY  W.  ARTHUR,  '20 
Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Stanley  W.  Arthur,  '20  in  South  Pasadena, 
Florida  on  April  6,  1970.  He  was  73. 

Born  in  Worcester,  Mass.  on  January  30, 
1897,  he  attended  South  High  School  be- 
fore entering  WPI  in  1914.  He  graduated  in 
1920  with   a   BS  degree   in  electrical  engi- 


neering, and  while  at  WPI,  he  was  a  member 
of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  fraternity. 

Following  graduation,  Mr.  Arthur  was 
employed  by  the  Edison  Lamp  Works  of  the 
General  Electric  Company  of  Harrison,  N.J. 
for  a  year  before  joining  the  American  Tele- 
phone &  Telegraph  Company  in  1921.  He 
retired  from  A.T.&T.  in  1959  as  Supervising 
Engineer  at  the  Area  Engineers  Office  at 
Cincinnati,  Ohio.  Mr.  Arthur  was  a  member 
of  the  Cleveland  Engineering  Society. 

Survivors  include  his  widow,  Glady  H. 
(Taylor)  Arthur  of  Treasure  Island,  Florida. 


HARRY  C.  MERRITT,  '20 

Harry  C.  Merritt,  '20  died  October  24, 
1970  in  Boston,  Mass.  at  the  age  of  74. 

Mr.  Merritt  was  born  in  Cohoes,  N.Y.  on 
November  22,  1895  and  he  attended  North 
High  School  before  entering  WPI  in  1915. 
He  graduated  in  1920  with  a  BS  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  and  while  at  WPI  he 
was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity. 

He  was  executive  vice  president  and 
director  of  Downington  Manufacturing 
Company,  Downington,  Pa.,  and  vice-presi- 
dent of  Black-Clawson  Co.,  in  Watertown, 
N.Y.  Mr.  Merritt  was  a  Mason,  a  member  of 
the  Newcomen  Society  of  North  America 
and  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  I. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Jeanette  M. 
(Flynn)  Merritt  of  Somers,  Conn.,  one 
brother  and  several  nephews. 

RAYMOND  S.  WORTH,  '23 

Raymond  S.  Worth,  '23  died  unex- 
pectedly on  November  5,  1970  in  Morris- 
ville,  Pa.  He  was  70.  Mr.  Worth  was  born  on 
January  10,  1900  in  South  Portland,  Maine 
and  he  entered  WPI  in  1919.  While  at  WPI, 
he  was  a  member  of  Theta  Upsilon  Omega 
fraternity. 

During  his  business  career,  he  was  em- 
ployed as  a  wire  mill  foreman  by  the 
American  Steel  and  Wire  Co.  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  as  a  department  head  by  the  Wick- 
wire  Spencer  Steel  Co.  and  as  a  wire  mill 
general  foreman  by  the  Bethlehem  Steel 
Company  in  Baltimore,  Md.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  Engineer's  Club  of  Trenton, 
N.J.,  President  of  the  Wire  Association  and 
member  of  the  American  Society  for  Metals, 
Delaware  Valley  Chapter,  as  well  as  being  a 
member  of  the  Masons.  Prior  to  his  retire- 
ment in  1967,  he  was  employed  for  several 
years  by  the  Colorado  Fuel  and  Iron  Cor- 
poration. 


CLYDE  N.  MANSUR,  '24 
Clyde   N.   Mansur,  '24  passed  away  on 

September      17,     1970    at     his     home     in 

Leominster,  Mass. 

Born  in  Westminster,  Mass.  on  February 

26,  1903,  Mr.  Mansur  attended  Westminster 


and  Fitchburg  High  Schools  and  Cushing 
Academy  before  entering  WPI  in  1920.  He 
graduated  in  1924  with  a  BS  degree  in 
electrical  engineering  and  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa  fraternity. 

Mr.  Mansur  spent  his  entire  business 
career,  following  his  graduation',  with  the 
Simonds  Saw  &  Steel  Co.  of  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  and  at  the  time  of  his  retirement,  was 
a  Director  and  General  Sales  Manager  of 
that  company.  He  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason 
and  a  member  of  the  Oak  Hill  Country  Club 
of  Fitchburg. 


DUNCAN  MclNNES, '25 

Duncan  Mclnnes,  '25  passed  away  in 
Bath,  Maine  on  May  29,  1970  at  the  age  of 
69. 

Born  in  Bath  on  June  6,  1900,  he 
graduated  from  Phillips  Academy,  Andover 
before  entering  WPI  where  he  majored  in 
civil  engineering.  He  graduated  from  New 
York  University  and  was  an  outstanding 
track  star  there.  Phi  Gamma  Delta  was  his 
fraternity.  Mr.  Mclnnes  retired  in  1965  after 
serving  for  more  than  twenty-five  years  with 
the  Bath  Iron  Works  Corp.,  where  he  was 
supervisor  of  the  outfitting  department. 
Prior  to  joining  the  Bath  Iron  Works,  he  was 
a  co-founder  of  the  Seaboard  Navigation 
Co.,  a  marine  freight  service  between  Boston 
and  Penobscot  River  ports. 

He  was  a  long-time  civic  leader  in  Bath 
and  was  reported  to  have  devoted  his 
energies  and  organizational  abilities  to  every 
good  cause  in  that  community.  At  the  time 
of  his  death,  Mr.  Mclnnes  was  President  of 
the  Bath  Memorial  Hospital,  an  original 
director  of  the  Marine  Research  Society  of 
Bath,  a  member  of  the  executive  board  of 
the  Maine  Hospital  Association,  and  was 
past  president  of  the  Bath  Council  of 
Churches. 

Mr.  Mclnnes  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Ellen  Main  Mclnnes,  one  son,  a  daughter,  a 
brother,  seven  grandchildren  and  several 
nieces  and  nephews. 


DR.  CHARLES  A.  CHOQUETTE,  '26 
Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Dr.  Charles  A.  Choquette,  '26,  of  Hamilton, 
N.Y.  on  March  14,  1967. 

Born  on  May  13,  1902.  Dr.  Choquette 
attended  Commerce  High  School  in  Worces- 
ter before  entering  WPI  in  1922.  He  received 
a  AB  degree  from  Clark  University  in  1926 
and  advanced  degrees  from  Cornell  Univer- 
sity in  1930  and  1935. 

Dr.  Choquette  was  a  long-time  resident 
of  Hamilton,  N.Y.  and  served  on  the  faculty 
in  the  French  department  at  Colgate 
University  for  many  years. 


34 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL     *1K 


ARMY  COLONEL  (RET) 
ROBERT  J.  FOLEY, '26 

Army  Colonel  (Ret)  Robert  J.  Foley, 
'26  died  on  January  18,  1971  in  Walter 
Reed  General  Hospital,  Washington,  D.C.  He 
was  67. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on 
December  17,  1903  and  attended  Classical 
High  School  before  entering  WPI  in  1922. 
He  graduated  in  1927  with  a  BS  degree  in 
electrical  engineering. 

He  served  27  years  on  the  City  Public 
Service  Board  in  San  Antonio,  Texas,  and 
later  was  a  consulting  engineer  for  the 
Foreign  Power  Co.  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  He 
also  served  as  consulting  engineer  for  the 
Electric  Bond  &  Share  Co.  in  Ankara, 
Turkey  and  the  Keban  Dam  Project  in 
Ankara.  From  1941  to  1946  he  was  an 
engineer  operational  officer  under  the  late 
Gen.  George  W.  Patton,  and  after  the  war  he 
served  in  the  Army  Reserves,  retiring  in 
1964.  He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  two  sisters  and  a 
brother  all  of  Worcester. 

SYDNEY  F.  SPENCER,  '29 

Sydney  F.  Spencer,  '29  died  in  July, 
1969.  Born  on  July  27,  1906  in  Boston, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Technical  High  School  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  before  entering  WPI  in 
1925  where  he  was  a  civil  engineering  major. 
While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity. 

A  long-time  employee  of  the  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  at  the 
time  of  his  retirement  he  was  Sales  Manager 
in  the  Springfield,  Mass.  office.  Following 
his  retirement,  he  moved  to  Yarmouthport, 
Mass. 


PAUL  R.  OLSON,  '32 

Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Paul  R.  Olson,  '32  in  the  summer  of  1966. 
Born  in  Worcester,  Mass.  July  18,  1909,  he 
entered  WPI  in  1928,  graduating  with  a 
degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  1932. 

From  1933  to  1940  he  was  employed 
by  the  American  Steel  and  Wire  Co.  of 
Worcester,  Mass.  and  in  1940  he  joined  the 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Division  of  the  United 
Aircraft  Corp.  of  Hartford,  Conn.  He  had 
also  been  President  of  Atlas  Engineering 
Services  of  New  Haven,  Conn. 

JOSEPH  T.  WIGHT,  '32 

Joseph  T.  Wight  died  on  May  27,  1967 
in  Montreal,  Canada. 

Born  on  May  3,  1907  in  Augusta,  Maine, 
Mr.  Wight  attended  Chauncy  Hall  School 
and  MIT  before  entering  WPI  in  1930.  He 
graduated  in  1932  with  a  BS  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering.  Among  the  posi- 
tions which  Mr.  Wight  held  during  his 
business  career  were  those  as  vice-president 
of  Maine  Food  Processors,  Winterport, 
Maine  for  seven  years,  two  years  as  Presi- 
dent of  Associated  Fish  Products  Co.  of 
Eastport,  Maine  and  twelve  years  as  eastern 
engineer  for  Standard  Steel  Corp.  of  Los 
Angeles,  California. 

He  was  active  in  the  Masons  and  the 
Shrine  and  was  a  Director  of  the  Winterport, 
Maine  Library. 

Among  the  survivors  is  his  widow  who 
resides  in  Winterport. 


WILLIAM  J.  DENNING,  JR.,  '34 

William  J.  Denning,  Jr.,  '34  passed  away 
on  January  20,  1971  in  Washington,  D.C. 
He  was  57. 

A  native  of  Burlington,  Vermont,  he  was 
born  on  June  1,  1912  and  attended  South 
High  in  Burlington.  He  entered  WPI  in  1930 
and  graduated  in  1934  with  a  BS  degree  in 
Chemistry.  He  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was 
employed  by  the  American  Mutual  Liability 
Insurance  Company  in  Washington,  D.C.  as 
assistant  manager.  He  had  previously  held 
positions  as  a  claim  manager  for  the  com- 
pany in  Providence,  R.I.  and  Upper  Darby, 
Pa. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  two  sons,  a 
daughter  and  two  brothers. 


G.  HARDING  ALLEN,  SIM  '64 

Mr.  G.  Harding  Allen,  SIM  '64  died  on 
September  23,  1970  in  Augusta,  Maine. 

Born  on  January  18,  1912  in  Barre, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Barre  High  School, 
Rhode  Island  School  of  Design  and  Clark 
University  before  entering  WPI  School  of 
Industrial  Management. 

He  held  positions  as  works  manager  and 
director  of  purchasing  at  the  Heald  Machine 
Co.  in  Worcester  and  he  also  was  a  director 
of  the  Charles  G.  Allen  Co.  of  Barre. 

Surviving  are  his  widow  and  two  sons. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


35 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1907 

Married:  LEWIS  HERBERT  CARTER 
to  Mrs.  Katy  Marshall  on  November  29, 
1970  at  Menlo  Park,  California. 

1914 

CHESTER  M.  INMAN  was  one  of  two 
hundred  ASM  members  honored  as  the  first 
Fellows  of  ASM  for  their  distinguished 
contributions  to  the  field  of  metals  and 
materials.  The  Fellows  Inaugural  Convoca- 
tion was  held  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

1924 

FORREST  E.  WILCOX  retired  from 
The  Carborundum  Company  in  1968  and 
reports  that  he  is  now  an  income  tax 
consultant  with  the  H  &  R  Block  Co.  of 
Rochester,  N.Y. 

1926 

FREDERICK  D.  FIELDER  has  retired 
after  44  years  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.  in  Sharon,  Pa...  The  trustees  of 
Union  Hospital,  Fall  River,  Mass.,  unani- 
mously voted  to  name  the  new  extended- 
care  building  in  honor  of  the  President  of 
the  hospital  corporation,  CHARLES  M. 
MORAN.  The  Charles  M.  Moran  Building  is 
scheduled  to  open  early  in  1971 . 

1927 

ROBERT  W.  GILLETTE  writes  that  he 
retired  as  Division  Engineer  of  Consolidated 
Edison  Co.  of  N.Y.  and  is  living  in  South 
Yarmouth,  Mass. 

1928 
A.  EVERETT  LAWRENCE,  manager  of 
special  studies  in  the  treasurer's  department 
of  the  DuPont  Company,  retired  on 
December  31.  1970.  ..  FREDERICK  G. 
SANDSTROM  writes  that  he  retired  from 
Consolidated  Edison  Co.  of  N.Y.  on  June  1. 
1970.  He  and  Mrs.  Sandstrom  are  having  a 
home  built  in  Sun  City.  Arizona. 


36 


1930 

After  28  years  at  The  Kelly-Springfield 
Tire  Company,  VERNON  E.  WADE,  chief 
chemist  —  corporate,  retired  on  September 
30,1970. 

1931 

ALBERT  M.  DEMONT,  manager  of 
professional  manpower  development  for 
General  Electric's  Corporate  Research  and 
Development  component,  has  been  elected 
chairman  of  the  Upper  New  York  —  Ontario 
—  Quebec  section  of  the  American  Society 
for  Engineering  Education.  .  .  THE  REVER- 
END WALKER  T.  HAWLEY  became  the 
Executive  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Pastoral 
Supply,  which  has  the  primary  purpose  of 
assisting  churches  to  secure  the  most 
effective  pastoral  service. 

1934 

JOHN  A.  BIRCH  reports  that  he  is  now 
employed  by  F.  R.  Harris,  Inc.,  of  Great 
Neck,  N.Y. 

1935 

ROBERT  M.  CAPE  reports  that  he  is 
the  Chief  Civil  Engineer  with  Tarns  do  Brasil 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  .  .  It  was  announced  that 
THOMAS  F.  McNULTY  was  appointed  to 
the  position  of  vice  president  of  manufac- 
turing for  the  Hardware  Division  of  Emhart 
Corp.,  Newington,  Conn.  .  .  HARVEY  W. 
WHITE  is  an  underwriting  supervisor  for  the 
Lumbermens  Mutual  Casualty  Co. 

Married:  AUSTIN  B.  COATES  to  Mrs. 
Ruth  Vaughn  on  October  31,  1970.  Austin 
reports  that  they  are  now  residing  in 
Auburn,  Mass. 

1936 
ROBERT  E.  MAYNARD  of  Norton 
Company  was  elected  to  fill  an  uncompleted 
term  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
Purchasing  Management  Association  of 
Boston. 


1937 

W.  ROBERT  POWERS  was  one  of  the 
men  honored  by  the  publisher  and  editors 
of  Engineering  News-Record  for  his  "report 
on  fire  in  a  New  York  skyscraper  question- 
ing whether  modern  buildings  are  truly 
fire-resistive." 

1938 

JOHN  G.  DESPO  has  been  appointed  to 
the  new  position  of  Director  of  Engineering 
for  Granite  City  Steel  Co.  of  Granite  City, 
Illinois. 

1939 

JOHN  M.  DRISCOLL  has  been  made  a 
vice  president  of  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
neering Corp.  of  Boston,  Mass. 

1940 
STANLEY   M.  TERRY   has  joined   the 
Maremont   Corp.,   New    England   Group,   in 
Saco,  Maine  and  has  been  appointed  Man- 
ager of  Special  Products. 

1941 

ARTHUR  R.  CURRAN  is  no  longer  in 
the  USAF  and  is  an  Associate  Professor  at 
Youngstown  State  University,  Youngstown, 
Ohio. 

1942 

Married:  E.  CURTIS  AMBLER  to  Mrs. 
Mary  L.  McClure  of  Newington,  Conn,  on 
November  27,  1970. 

GEORGE  C.  ANDREOPOULOS  has 
been  named  Sales  Manager-Food  Machine 
Div.  of  the  Manley  Inc.  of  Kansas  City, 
Mo.  ..DELBERT  A.  BETTERLEY.  Presi- 
dent of  Betterley  Associates,  has  been 
elected  to  the  Worcester  Junior  College 
Board  of  Trustees.  ..  PHILIP  L.  CAMP  is 
now  Branch  Manager  for  the  Idaho  Nuclear 
Corp.  of  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho. 


1944 
FRED  S.  MOULTON  is  now  residing  in 
London,    England    where    he    is    the    Vice 
President    of    Newfoundland    Refining  Co., 
Ltd.,  of  London. 

1945 
DR.  CARL  C.  CLARK    has  joined  the 
staff  of  the  National   Bureau  of  Standards, 


Ellery  B.  Paine,  '97 


"Dear  Sir:  Your  letter  of  February  5,  1971,  is  the  second 
letter  I  have  had  from  an  Editor  of  the  Journal.  The  other 
letter  came  to  me  when  I  was  a  graduate  student  at 
Worcester  in  1897." 

Ellery  B.  Paine  is  a  remarkable  person.  He  has  had  a 
long  and  full  career,  with  many  significant  and  unique 
achievements.  He  "retired"  as  head  of  the  Electrical 
Engineering  Department  of  the  University  of  Illinois  in 
1944;  but  he  is  still  active.  At  95,  he  was  recently 
appointed  to  a  committee  of  five  to  determine  the 
"Outstanding  Electrical  Engineering  Student  of  1970." 

There  is  not  nearly  space  enough  here  to  describe  Mr. 
Paine's  accomplishments  and  career,  but  we  would  like  to 
share  a  few  of  the  highlights  of  his  life  with  the  Journal's 
readers. 

Born  in  Connecticut,  Paine  entered  WPI  in  1893, 
graduating  in  1897  and  receiving  a  MS  in  1898  and  an  EE  in 
1904.  He  worked  for  General  Electric  in  Schenectady  and 
for  Lehigh  Valley  Coal  Company  in  Pennsylvania.  More 
!  interested  in  teaching,  he  became  Dean  of  Technology  at 
Stetson  University  in  Florida,  then  became  head  of  the 
Department  of  Physics  and  Electrical  Engineering  at  North 
Carolina  College  of  Agriculture  and  Mechanic  Arts.  In  1907 
he  went  to  the  University  of  Illinois,  where  he  was 
appointed  head  of  the  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering 
in  1913.  He  held  that  position  until  he  retired  in  1944. 

As  a  WPI  graduate  student,  he  designed  and  built  a 
transformer  that  produced  higher  voltages  than  had  ever 
before  been  produced  by  a  single  transformer.  It  was 
unique  because  the  insulating  material  was  kerosene  oil, 
chosen  after  many  tests.  Later  students  tried  to  build  a 
transformer  of  even  higher  voltage,  but  they  were  unable  to 
j  get  kerosene  of  the  proper  insulating  quality.  Paine's 
transformer  was  described  in  the  August  1898,  Electrical 
World  Magazine.  Several  years  later,  WPI  sold  the  trans- 
former to  a  company  building  high  voltage  cables  at  a  price 
equal  to  the  total  expenses  of  the  E.E.  department  for 
research  materials  up  to  the  time  of  the  sale. 

In  1921,  Paine  was  able  to  hire  Joseph  T.  Tykociner  at 

\  the    University    of    Illinois.    Tykociner  had   distinguished 

1  himself  by  developing  a  radio  communication  system  for 

the  Russian  navy,  the  first  of  its  kind,  but  had  left  Russia 

because  of  the  revolution. 

Under  Paine's  direction,  Tykociner  attacked  the  prob- 
lem of  recording  sound   on  film.   In  a  surprisingly  short 
period,  he  had  solved  the  attendant  problems.  According  to 
I  Paine,  "it  was  decided  that  a  public  demonstration  of  this 
'  discovery    should   include   a   motion  picture   of  and   the 
production  of  my  brief  speech.  Not  being  able  to  think  of 
words    worthy    of   this    recording,    I    decided    to    repeat 
I  Lincoln's  Gettysburg  address."  The  demonstration  was  held 
on  June  9,  1922.  Paine  was  thus  the  first  man  to  have  his 
voice  recorded  on  film. 

Unable  to  interest  any  commercial  firms  in  the  process, 

;  they    were    told    that    "the    lure    of    motion    pictures    is 

pantomime,  and  if  sound  came  with  pictures  the  industry 


#  1 


would  be  ruined."  George  Eastman  was  approached,  and 
said  he  would  not  pay  ten  cents  for  the  right  to  use  films  in 
recording  sound.  Because  of  the  lack  of  interest,  making  the 
discovery  seem  worthless,  Tykociner  did  not  patent  the 
method. 

"Edison  invented  both  motion  pictures  and  the  phono- 
graph. He  had  a  patent  for  operating  the  two  devices 
together,  but  was  unable  to  perfect  a  mechanism  which 
held  the  two  in  exact  synchronization.  The  Bell  Telephone 
Company  did  develop  such  a  device  in  connection  with 
their  system  of  sending  pictures  over  wires.  The  first 
demonstration  of  this  system  was  the  transmission  of  a 
picture  of  Calvin  Coolidge  making  his  inaugural  address  in 
Washington,  which  was  displayed  in  Chicago  before  the 
speech  was  ended.  Then  for  publicity,  a  theater  was  rented 
in  New  York  and  motion  pictures  and  phonograph  records 
were  operated  in  synchronism.  It  was  found  that  the 
combination  of  pictures  and  sound  were  interesting  to  the 
general  public." 

That  was  in  1925.  Only  months  later,  Western  Electric 
Company,  a  subsidiary  of  Bell,  was  manufacturing  equip- 
ment for  producing  talking  motion  pictures.  Within  a  year 
Western  Electric  had  over  700  employees  working  on  that 
alone.  It  was  found  that  there  were  serious  problems  when 
the  film  was  broken  and  spliced,  however.  When  that 
happened,  the  synchronization  was  broken.  To  prevent  this, 
the  industry  adopted  —  you  guessed  it  —  Tykociner's 
method  developed  under  Paine's  supervision.  And  not 
patented.  An  exhibit  in  the  University  of  Illinois  Engi- 
neering Library  is  now  labeled  Tykociner  made  motion 
pictures  talk,  but  nobody  would  listen. 

For  many  years,  Bridge,  the  magazine  of  the  Honor 
Society  for  Electrical  Engineering  Students,  has  published 
"Letters  from  Ellery."  Paine  originally  wrote  these,  dealing 
chiefly  with  his  boyhood  days,  for  the  younger  members  of 
his  family. 

In  the  words  of  President  Hazzard,  "It  is  impressive  to 
me  that  an  alumnus  of  the  class  of  1897  is  still  alive.  But  it 
is  immensely  more  impressive  to  observe  the  clarity  and 
logic  of  your  writing.  If  we  can  turn  out  such  graduates 
now  as  the  college  turned  out  in  your  day,  we  will  be 
successful  indeed." 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


37 


U.S.  Dept.  of  Commerce,  as  Staff  Con- 
sultant on  Product  Safety  in  the  Product 
Evaluation  Technology  Division,  Institute  of 
Applied  Technology.  .  .THE  REVEREND 
EDWARD  I.  SWANSON  has  been  des- 
ignated editor-elect  and  director  of  all 
publications  for  the  General  Commission  on 
Chaplains  and  Armed  Forces  Person- 
nel. .  .  DR.  ALBERT  P.  TALBOYS  has  been 
named  Sanitary  Engineering  Director  of  the 
U.S.  Public  Health  Service,  Washington, 
D.C. 

1946 

WALTER  F.  CONLIN,  JR.  has  been 
appointed  chief  engineer  of  Turner  Con- 
struction Company  in  New  York. 

1946B 

GARABED  HOVHANESIAN  has  as- 
sumed new  responsibilities  as  President  & 
Managing  Director  of  General  Electr.ic 
(U.S.A.)  Housewares  Private  Ltd.  and  is 
living  in  Singapore. 

1947 

ANDREW  T.  GOETTMAN  is  now  Plant 
Engineer  for  the  Lorillard  Corp.  of  Greens- 
boro, N.C. 


1948 

ROBERT  A.  GREEN  has  been  named 
vice-president  —  marketing  at  Avco  Bay 
State  Abrasives  Division  of  Westboro, 
Mass.  .  .  DR.  CARLTON  A.  LANE  has  been 
appointed  an  Instructor  in  Mathematics  at 
Leward  Community  College  in  Pearl  City, 
Hawaii...  DR.  CHARLES  A.  WOODMAN 
has  been  appointed  Science  Director  in  the 
Braintree  Public  Schools,  Braintree,  Mass. 

1949 

LEONARD  W.  FISH,  Director,  Planning 
for  the  American  Gas  Association,  Inc.,  has 
been  transferred  from  the  New  York  office 
to  Arlington,  Virginia.  ..  DANIEL  L. 
McQUILLAN  is  President  of  the  Aerovox 
Corp.  of  New  Bedford,  Mass. 


1950 

LEO  A.  LYNCH,  JR.  is  still  with  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  He  is  Manager  -  Sales  in 
Erie,  Pa.  ..JOHN  W.  PEIRCE,  Manager, 
Price  Policy  and  Marketing  Information  for 
The  Foxboro  Co.,  has  announced  his 
candidacy  for  selectman  in  the  town  of 
Sherborn,  Mass. 

1951 
THOMAS  M.  JUNE  writes  that  after  3% 
years  in  Australia  working  for  Koppers  Co., 
Inc.,  he  is  returning  to  their  Pittsburgh 
office.  .  .  JOSEPH  S.  VITALIS,  JR.  is  with 
the  Mitre  Corp.  of  Belleville,  Illinois.  .  .  AL- 


FRED J.  WHEELER,  a  Principal  Engineer 
with  Micro  State  Electronics,  Inc.,  has  been 
transferred  from  the  Murray  Hill,  N.J.  office 
to  the  office  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

1952 

RAY  A.  MANN,  Representative  for  the 
Crown  Container  Corp.  and  Foam  Products 
Corp.  of  Spencer,  Mass.,  is  running  for  the 
office  of  selectman  of  that  town. 

1953 

WILLIAM  H.  NAGEL  writes  that  he  is 
the  Associate  Marketing  Manager  for  Fischer 
&  Porter  Co.  of  Warminster,  Pa.  .  .  It  was 
announced  that  DONALD  G.  POST  has 
been  promoted  to  Director  of  Sales  Admin- 
istration of  Sweetheart  Plastics,  Inc.,  of 
Wilmington,  Mass. 

1955 

DR.  HOWARD  J.  DWORKIN  is  with  the 
radioisotope  unit  of  the  University  of 
Toronto,  Princess  Margaret  Hospital, 
Toronto,  Canada. 

1956 

THOMAS  E.  STAMOULIS  has  been 
appointed  Manager  of  the  Sonobuoy 
Systems  Business  Area  at  Raytheon  Co., 
Submarine  Signal  Division  in  Portsmouth, 
R.I. 

1957 

ALAN  J.  and  Audrey  CARLAN  write 
that  they  are  living  in  Palos  Verdes,  Califor- 
nia, where  Alan  is  operations  manager  at 
International  Rectifier  Corp.  in  El  Segundo 
and  Audrey  is  an  assistant  professor  of 
mathematics  and  computer  sciences  at 
Southwest  College,  Los  Angeles.  .  . 
CHARLES  M.  STASEY,  Assistant  General 
Manager  of  Itek-Kingsbury  Co.  of  Norwood, 
Mass.  has  been  awarded  a  U.S.  patent  for  his 
invention,  in  association  with  two  other 
employees  of  Itek,  of  an  automatic  printer. 
The  system  has  the  capability  of  controlling 
the  color  balance  of  a  duplicate  print  from 
original  film  strip.  .  .  CARL  L.  URETSKY  is 
President  of  TDR  Electronics  of  Bristol,  R.I. 


1958 

Married:  ARTHUR  P.  McGOWAN,  JR. 
to  Miss  Bonnie  D.  Waters  of  Farmington, 
Conn,  on  November  21 ,  1970. 

HENRY  ALTENBRAND  is  an  Engi- 
neering Assistant  for  the  Providence  Gas  Co. 
in  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  CHARLES  B.  CUSH- 
MAN  writes  that  he  is  a  Golf  Club  Design 
Engineer  for  Wilson  Sporting  Goods,  Inc.  of 
River  Grove,  Illinois.  ..  JAMES  S. 
DEMETRY  has  left  the  U.S.  Naval  Post 
Graduate  School  in  Monterey,  California, 
and  is  an  Associate  Professor  at  WPI  in  the 


E.E.  department.  .  .  ROGER  A.  LITMAN  is 
now  Production  Manager  of  KEV  Elec- 
tronics Corp.  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 

1959 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  A. 
McMANUS,  a  daughter,  Christine  Elizabeth, 
on  February  4,  1970.  John  is  Director  of 
the  Water  Dept.,  New  Britain,  Conn. 

MORGAN  S.  ELY  is  no  longer  with  the 
U.S.  Navy.  He  has  returned  to  college  as  a 
graduate  student  at  Utah  State  University, 
Logan,  Utah.  .  .  MAJOR  GEORGE  J. 
NELSON  has  returned  from  thirteen 
months'  duty  with  the  144th  Signal  Bat- 
talion stationed  in  Germany.  He  will  be 
home  for  ten  days  before  reporting  for  his 
second  tour  assignment  in  Vietnam.  While 
serving  in  Germany,  Major  Nelson  received 
the  Army  Commendation  Medal  for 
Meritorious  Service. 


1960 

Married:  ROBERT  F.  KASPROW  to 
Miss  Julia  Carol  Reynolds  of  Haddam, 
Conn.,  on  July  18,  1970. 

DR.  ROBERT  A.  CONDRATE,  Assist- 
ant Professor  of  Spectroscopy  at  the  State 
University  College  of  Ceramics  at  Alfred 
University,  has  been  elected  a  Fellow  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Chemists.  .  .  DR. 
ARMAND  P.  FERRO  is  working  for  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  of  Schenectady,  N.Y.asan 
electrical  engineer.  .  .  DAVID  B.  HALEY  is 
Section  Head  —  Product  Development  in  the 
Molecular  Imaging  Research  Dept.  of  Plastic 
Coating  Corp.  in  Holyoke,  Mass.  He  is 
currently  enrolled  in  the  Western  New 
England  College  graduate  program.  .  .  LOW- 
ELL M.  HATTORI  is  a  Finance  Administra- 
tor for  Fortin  Laminating  Division  of  Mono- 
gram Industries  in  San  Fernando, 
California.  ..  RONALD  J.  RICHARD  is 
now  Assistant  Professor  in  the  Physics  Dept. 
of  St.  Benedict's  College  at  Atchison, 
Kansas.  ..  GEORGE  E.  SCHILLINGER  is 
Assistant  Professor  in  the  Mathematics 
Dept.  of  New  England  College,  Henniker, 
N.H.  .  .CHARLES  A.  STEVENS  who 
earned  his  MS  in  ME  at  WPI,  is  an  Assistant 
Professor,  Dept.  of  Mechanical  &  Aerospace 
Engineering  at  the  University  of  Missouri, 
Columbia,  Missouri.  ..  PAUL  S.  STRA- 
MESE  writes  that  he  has  become  Vice 
President  of  the  Stramese  Construction  Inc. 
of  Northampton,  Mass.  and  that  he  and  his 
family  were  moving  from  Maryland  to 
Northampton. 

1961 

Married:  SETH  N.  ARAKELIAN  to  Miss 
Kathenne  Proko  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
November  15,  1970.  He  is  an  engineer  with 
the  San-Vel  Co.,  Littleton,  Mass.  .  . 
GEORGE  M.  YULE  to  Miss  Jessie  T.  Corter 
of  San  Jose,  California  on  August  8,  1970. 


38 


THE  WPI  JOURNAV. 


Music  Hath  Charms 

and  transistors  and  IC's  too. 


When  he  was  a  senior  at  WPI,  ALAN  R.  PEARLMAN,  '48, 
had  a  dream.  It  was  that  someday  he  would  develop  an 
electronic  device  to  produce  music  with  all  of  the  subtleties 
and  control  of  conventional  instruments  in  the  hands  of 
artists. 

His  dream  has  come  true.  In  December,  as  president  of 
Tonus,  Inc.,  of  Waltham,  Pearlman  announced  at  a  Boston 
press  conference  the  development  of  the  ARP  Synthesizer. 
In  the  demonstration,  the  device  did  indeed  duplicate  the 
musical  qualities  of  clarinets,  trumpets,  gongs,  and  other 
instruments.  But  it  did  much  more.  The  synthesizer  can 
produce  musical  effects  which  are  impossible  in  other 
instruments. 

"This  is  not  just  a  laboratory  curiosity,"  says  Pearlman. 
"The  ARP  Synthesizer  meets  a  real  need  in  the  musical 
world.  First  of  all,  it  is  a  new  instrument  suitable  to  concert 
work  in  all  types  of  musical  fields.  Its  greatest  application 
will  probably  be  in  schools  where  music  and  the  theory  of 
music  are  taught.  The  teacher  can  readily  demonstrate  the 
relationship  between  subjective  musical  tone  quality,  or 
'timbre,'  and  the  physical  sound  spectrum  of  overtones  and 
fundamentals.  For  the  composer,  the  synthesizer  is  a  great 
boon,  for  he  can  play  the  part  of  each  instrument  on  the 
standard  piano-like  keyboard  and  then  combine  the  parts 
on  a  multitrack  tape  recorder  to  hear  all  the  parts 
together." 

Costing  about  as  much  as  an  American  compact  car,  the 
ARP  Synthesizer  folds  up  to  the  size  of  a  large  suitcase  for 
carrying.  Tonus  also  makes  a  larger  studio  model  costing 
about  $8000.  This  one  has  even  more  versatility. 

An  amateur  himself,  Pearlman  developed  the  first  crude 
model  of  the  synthesizer  as  a  student  project  at  WPI. 
Electronic  instruments,  such  as  the  organ,  were  available  at 
that  time  but  they  did  not  have  the  ability  to  control  the 
note  once  it  was  played.  "It  was  like  turning  a  light  switch 
j  on  or  off,"  he  noted. 

An  electronic  music  synthesizer  consists  of  the  follow- 
]  ing  types  of  circuits: 


1.  Generators  of  "raw  waveforms,  such  as  white  noise, 
and  regular  periodic  waves  including  sine,  triangular, 
square,  pulse,  and  sawtooth  waveshapes." 

2.  Modifiers,  such  as  electrically  variable  wave  filters, 
which  emphasize  or  suppress  various  regions  of  the 
audio  spectrum;  variable  amplifiers,  which  produce 
dynamic  changes  in  waveform  amplitude;  and  mod- 
ulators, which  combine  several  waveforms  to  pro- 
duce new  timbres  containing  sidebands  which 
impart  strange  coloration  to  the  sound. 

3.  Controllers,  such  as  low-frequency  periodic  wave- 
form generators,  aperiodic  transient  generators, 
keyboard  controllers,  and  sequential  voltage  genera- 
tors. 

Put  them  all  together,  and  you  have  an  instant 
do-it-yourself  instrument,  with  which  you  can  invent  your 
own  sound  quality  and  modify  it  at  will.  In  addition  to  a 
standard  keyboard,  which  allows  the  player  to  create 
melodies,  the  instrument  can  play  itself  in  either  a 
repetitive,  or  random  manner.  The  control  panel  contains 
graphic  symbols  which  make  the  functions  self-evident  at  a 
glance.  Modifications  in  sound  are  made  with  slider 
controls,  and  the  complexity  of  playing  is  easily  mastered 
by  a  person  without  a  technical  background. 

Pearlman's  career  since  graduation  has  been  a  progres- 
sion of  increasingly  important  positions  in  the  electronics 
industry.  He  was  formerly  vice  president  and  treasurer  of 
Nexus  Research  in  Canton,  Mass.  He  kept  working  as  time 
permitted  on  his  dream  of  a  synthesizer.  When  he  became 
president  of  Tonus  in  1969,  he  was  able  to  direct  corporate 
efforts  toward  the  project  with  the  firm  belief  that  the 
world  was  ready  for  it.  There  are  other  synthesizers  on  the 
market,  but  he  feels  that  his  has  many  advantages  over 
them,  particularly  in  the  quality  of  sound  and  the  stability 
of  tuning. 


5° 


< 

e 

o 


"I  think  he's  a  little  weak  with  his  potentiometers, 
bul  the  oscillating  leedback  is  inspired." 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


HAROLD  W.  BERK  is  a  David  Ross 
Fellow  in  the  Bionucleonics  Dept.  at  Purdue 
University,  Lafayette,  Indiana.  .  .  DR. 
RALPH  F.  GUERTIN  is  teaching  at  Rice 
University  in  Houston,  Texas.  He  is  an 
Assistant  Professor  of  Physics.  .  .STEPHEN 
W.  KLEIN,  a  division  chief  in  the  Army 
Electronics  Command  Systems  —  Cost  Anal- 
ysis Office,  has  been  selected  by  the  Depart- 
ment of  Defense  to  attend  the  15-month 
Defense  Systems  Analysis  Education  Pro- 
gram conducted  by  the  University  of 
Rochester  and  the  Center  for  Naval  Anal- 
ysis, Washington.  .  .JOHN  F.  OGOR- 
ZALEK  writes  that  he  was  just  transferred 
from  New  Jersey  to  Long  Beach,  California. 
John  is  a  plant  manager  for  Tenneco  Chemi- 
cals Inc.  The  Ogorzaleks  have  purchased  a 
home  in  Seal  Beach,  California  for  them- 
selves and  their  two  sons,  John  William,  31/i, 
and  Thomas  Holder,  born  February  24, 
1970.  .  .  KENNETH  I.  PARKER  is  District 
Manager  of  Sales  for  the  Gilbane  Building 
Co.  of  Providence.  .  .  FREDERIC  A.  STE- 
VENS, vice  president  of  Vantage  Computer 
Systems,  has  announced  their  new  offices 
will  open  in  Hartford,  Conn.  Vantage  will 
offer  data  processing  consulting  and 
programming  services. 


1962 

DR.  KENNETH  J.  ANUSAVICE  was 
awarded  a  doctorate  by  the  University  of 
Florida.  He  is  a  Technical  Analyst  for  the 
U.S.  Atomic  Energy  Commission,  Savannah 
River  Operations  Office,  Aiken,  S.C.  .  . 
CLIFFORD  G.  ENGSTROM  writes  that  he 
recently  changed  jobs  to  take  a  position  of 
Electrical  Engineer  for  the  Middleboro, 
Mass.,  Dept.  of  Gas  &  Electricity.  .  . 
JOSEPH  D.  LEBLANC  is  a  Reactor  and 
Computer  Supervisor  with  the  Maine 
Yankee  Atomic  Power  Co.  in  Wiscasset, 
Maine.  .  .  JOHN  C.  RUPPRECHT  has  been 
transferred  by  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.  to  South- 
field,  Michigan,  where  he  is  a  Senior  Sales 
Engineer.  .  .  The  United  States  Patent  Office 
has  announced  that  RICHARD  M.  SHAR- 
KANSKY  has  passed  examination  for  regis- 
tration to  practice  law  before  the  agency.  .  . 
WALKER  T.  THOMPSON  received  his  MS 
in  Industrial  Engineering  from  Newark  Col- 
lege, Newark,  N.J.  ..  JOSEPH  H.  WOLEN- 
SKI  is  currently  enrolled  in  the  Babson 
College  master  of  business  administration 
degree  program. 


1963 

Married:  FRANCIS  E.  KENNEDY,  JR. 
to  Miss  M.  L.  Pattrawadi  Chayangkura  of 
Bangkok.  Thailand  on  August  14,  1970. 
Francis  is  a  doctoral  candidate  at  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Troy.  N.Y. 


DR.  ALFRED  H.  BARRETT  is  a  Senior 
Research  Engineer  at  Delco  Electronics  Div., 
General  Motors  Corp.  of  Goleta,  Califor- 
nia. .  .  CHARLES  M.  BECK  II  writes  that  he 
is  an  analytical  chemist  with  the  State  of 
Maryland  Dept.  of  Water  Resources  in 
Annapolis,  Md.  .  .  DR.  RICHARD  F. 
DOMINGUEZ  received  his  PhD  from 
Oregon  State  University  in  1970  and  is  now 
an  Assistant  Professor  of  Ocean  Engineering 
at  Texas  A  &  M  University  in  College 
Station,  Texas.  .  .  LESLIE  J.  HART  is  a  law 
student  at  Suffolk  University,  Boston, 
Mass.  .  .STANLEY  P.  SKOLA,  JR.,  was 
transferred  by  the  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.  to  Danville,  Virginia,  where  he  is  a  staff 
engineer.  .  .  KENDAL  B.  TURNER  is  now 
with  Anatech,  Inc.,  of  Groton,  Conn,  and  is 
a  system  engineer.  .  .  CAPT.  JAMES  A. 
VELEZIS  received  an  MS  in  Civil  Engineer- 
ing from  Texas  A  &  M  University  in  May, 
1970,  and  is  now  with  the  U.S.  Army,  46th 
Engineering  Battalion  (Construction). 

1964 

Having  finished  two  years  as  an  instruc- 
tor in  the  Army,  RICHARD  R.  BROWN  is 
now  handling  public  relations  for  Data 
General  Corp.  in  Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  AL- 
LEN W.  CASE,  JR.,  received  his  MS  from 
WPI  and  is  now  employed  as  a  system 
engineer  for  General  Electric  Co.,  Research 
and  Development  Center  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  ..  Working  as  a  telecommunications 
officer  for  the  U.S.  State  Dept.  in  the 
Embassy  of  the  United  States,  Manila,  Re- 
public of  the  Philippines,  is  F.  CLARK 
GESSWEIN.  ..  BARRY  J.  KADETS  is  an 
operations  research  analyst  for  Stop  &  Shop 
in  Boston,  Mass.  He  and  his  family  are  living 
in  Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  DR.  PAUL  A. 
LILIENTHAL  is  an  engineer  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Cold  Regions  Research  &  Engineering 
Lab.  in  Hanover,  N.H.  ..  WALTER  W. 
MASSIE  is  with  the  Department  of  Civil 
Engineering,  Delft  University  of  Technol- 
ogy, Delft,  Netherlands.  .  .  Working  as  a 
financial  analyst  for  General  Electric  Co.  in 
Lynn,  Mass.,  is  JOHN  T.  O'KEEFE.  .  . 
WILLIAM  T.  SWANSON  is  now  assistant 
office  manager  for  See  Neefus,  Inc.,  in 
Riverhead,  N.Y. 


1965 

Married:  RICHARD  G.  SKOGLUND  to 
Miss  Susan  E.  Todd  of  Oaklyn,  N.J.,  on 
October  17,  1970.  They  are  residing  in 
Allen  Park,  Michigan,  where  Dick  is  co- 
owner  of  Ramchargers  Racing  Engines 
Inc.  ..JORDAN  M.  DERN  and  Mrs.  Dern 
announce  the  adoption  of  a  daughter,  Robin 
Ehse,  born  May  31,  1970.  Jordan  is  a 
Process  Engineer  for  Koppers  Co.,  Inc.,  in 
Fallansbee,  West  Virginia. 

MICHAEL  W.  80YD  received  his  MA  in 
Mathematics  in  1968  from  the  Slate  Univer- 


sity of  New  York  in  Binghamton  and  is  now 
a  graduate  assistant  at  that  univer- 
sity. .  .  DONALD  C.  CARLSON  is  now 
working  in  Tokyo,  Japan  for  the  Torrington 
Co.  as  a  Chief  Liaison  Engineer.  .  .  SURESH 
V.  CHOKSI  received  his  MS  in  Chemical 
Engineering  from  WPI  in  1968  and  now 
writes  that  he  is  a  chemical  engineer  with 
Choksi    Brothers  Ltd.  in  Bombay,  India.  .  . 

CHARLES  H.  DUFOUR  received  the  high- 
est score  in  Rhode  Island  on  the  Engineer- 
in-Training  Examination.  This  examination 
is  part  of  the  state  requirements  for  be- 
coming a  licensed  Professional  Engineer. 
Charles  has  been  employed  at  the  Cottrell 
Company  since  1965  and  is  a  development 
engineer.  .  .  ROBERT  D.  KLAUBER  writes 
that  he  has  just  returned  from  a  year-long 
trip  around  the  world  and  is  now  in  gradu- 
ate school  at  Princeton  University  studying 
for  his  PhD.  ..THOMAS  R.  LEE  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Mary- 
land. He  received  his  MSEE  from  there  in 
June.  PETER  E.  McCORMICK  writes  that 
he  is  still  with  IBM  but  is  transferring  to  the 
Components  Division's  new  location  in 
Manassas,  Virginia.  He  says,  "I  will  be 
working  there  as  a  Project  Engineer  in  a 
logic  circuit  design  area.".  .  .  LT.  GEORGE 
W.  MITSCHANG  is  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Post 
Graduate     School     in     Monterey,    Calif.  .  . 

HOWARD  G.  SACHS  is  now  a  Research 
Fellow  at   Carnegie    Institute    in   Baltimore, 

Md ALFRED  G.  SYMONDS  is  still  with 

General  Electric  but  he  has  been  transferred 
from  Maryland  to  Pittsfield,  Mass.  ..  DR. 
DONALD  K.  Tl  BBETTS  writes  that  he  is  an 
Assistant  Professor  of  Chemistry  at  Beaver 
College,  Glenside,  Pa. 

1966 

Married:  JEFFREY  W.  WICKERI  to 
Miss  Jacqueline  M.  Dion  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  on  December  5,  1970.  Jeffrey  is 
employed  as  a  traffic  engineer  for  the  New 
York  State  Dept.  of  Transportation  in 
Poughkeepsie. 

Born:  To  Lt.  and  Mrs.  PETER  J. 
KUDLESS,  a  daughter,  Allison  Marie,  on 
December  14,  1970.  Peter  is  a  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Navy  stationed  at  Newport,  R.I. 

JAY  J.  BOTOP  is  employed  by  the 
Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Linde  Division  in 
Birmingham,  Alabama  as  a  sales  representa- 
tive. .  .  JAMES  M.  FIFE  is  now  located  in 
Houston,  Texas  working  for  the  General 
Electric  Co.  as  a  sales  engineer.  .  .  DR. 
JOHN  H.  LAUTERBACH  received  his  PhD 
from  Ohio  State  University  and  is  now 
working  for  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Bound 
Brook,  N.J.  ..RCA  employs  LOUIS  G. 
MATTE,  JR.,  in  Burlington,  Mass.,  as  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff.  .  .  Dl LIP  K. 
MISTRY  is  a  project  engineer  with  Inger- 
soll-Rand, located  in  Princeton,  N.J.  .  . 
ANSON  B.  MORAN  reports  that  he  is  now 
working    for    IBM   in   Oakland,  Calif.,  as  a 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


■:',': 
Vila 
UlN 
tt|j 
litfji 

.i; 

!•:■!, 


marketing  representative.  .  .  After  being  re- 
leased from  the  United  States  Navy,  JOHN 
J.  MORAWSKI  has  returned  to  work  for  the 
Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Corp.  in  Albany, 
N.Y.,  as  assistant  to  the  planning  super- 
visor. .  .  DONALD  J.  MUGNAI  writes  that 
I  he  is  living  and  working  in  Rockville,  Md. 
He  is  employed  as  a  research  worker  with 
sonar  systems  at  Challenger  Research, 
line.  ..KYLE  J.  ONDRICEK,  who  is  em- 
ployed by  Esso  Standard,  has  been  trans- 
ferred to  Naha,  Okinawa,  where  he  is 
coordinator  of  process  planning.  .  .  Polaroid 
(Corp.  employs  DONALD  J.  PEARSON  as  a 
scientist  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  RICHARD 
J.  PIASECKI  reports  that  he  now  works  for 
the  Karl  Koch  Erecting  Co.  in  Carteret,  N.J. 
as  a  construction  supervisor.  .  .  Employed  as 
a  teaching  assistant  in  the  M.E.  Department 
at  the  University  of  New  Mexico  is 
CHARLES  C.  ROBERTS,  JR.  .  .ROBERT 
J.  SCALZI  is  a  mathematician  in  the  De- 
fense Department,  Washington,  D.C.  .  . 
JOHN  P.  SEFERIADI  is  a  teaching  assistant 
at  the  College  of  Architecture  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Washington  while  studying  for  his  M. 
Arch.  .  .The  National  Air  Pollution  Control 
Administration  in  Raleigh,  N.C.,  employs 
GEORGE  R.  STEVENS  as  a  chemical  engi- 
neer. .  .  WILLIAM  E.  SULLIVAN,  JR.,  is  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Computer 
Sciences  Corp.  in  Cranford,  N.J.  and  lives  in 
Parlin,  N.J. 

1967 

Married:  ROBERT  G.  LAMONTAGNE 
to  Miss  Eleanor  M.  Bigott  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  on  November  21,  1970.  They  are 
residing  in  Worcester  where  Robert  is  an 
instructor  at  Quinsigamond  Community 
College.  .  .ROBERT  C.  YOUNG  to  Miss 
Pamela  M.  Brosnihan  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
on  October  25,  1970. 

LT.  PHILLIP  J.  CLARK  is  stationed  in 
the  Marianas  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  .  .  CAPT. 
STEPHEN  B.  COTTER  is  an  instructor  pilot 
at  Moody  AFB,  Georgia.  He  is  assigned  to  a 
unit  of  the  Air  Training  Command.  .  .  ROY 
P.  LINDQUISTisa  Briefing  Officer,  1/Lt,  in 
the  U.S.  Army  at  Fort  Bliss,  Texas.  Lt. 
Lindquist  is  at  the  Air  Defense  School  at 
Fort  Bliss.  ..  LT.  FRANK  D.  MANTER, 
U.S.  Army,  Viet  Nam,  received  the  Bronze 
Star  for  outstanding  meritorious  service  in 
connection  with  military  operations  against 
hostile  forces  in  Viet  Nam.  .  .  CHRIS- 
TOPHER E.  CRIDGE  writes  that  he  is 
self-employed  at  1464  Makefield  Rd.,  Mor- 
risville,  Pa.  .  .  DR.  ROBERT  J.  CORNELL 
has  been  made  a  Senior  Chemist  at  the 
UniRoyal  Inc.,  Chemical  Division  in  Nauga- 
tuck.  Conn.  .  .JOHN  B.  FELDMAN  writes 
that  he  is  an  Engineer  in  the  Chemical  and 
Electrochemical  Processes  Division  of  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.,  in  Lynn,  Mass.  RAY- 
MOND J.  FORTIN  is  on  the  technical  staff 
of  the   Mitre  Corp.,  at   Scott   AFB    in    Illi- 


nois. .  .  RICHARD  M.  KING  is  no  longer  in 
the  service  and  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  at  the  Permanent  Label  Corp.  of 
Clifton,  N.J.  .  .STEPHEN  R.  LUBER  re- 
ceived an  MBA  from  Harvard  University  in 
1969  and  is  now  studying  at  Stanford 
University  in  California.  .  .  ROBERT  G. 
McANDREW,  no  longer  in  the  Navy,  is  an 
Engineer  for  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.  in 
Lynchburg,  Va  .  .  DENIS  F.  McQUILLEN 
received  his  MS  from  WPI  in  June  and  is 
now  employed  as  a  project  manager  at  the 
Standard  Refrigeration  Co.  in  Puerto 
Rico.  .  .  RONALD  A.  MUCCI  has  been 
awarded  a  doctoral  study  grant  by  his 
employer,  the  Raytheon  Co.,  Submarine 
Signal  Division.  He  will  study  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Rhode  Island  and  will  concentrate  on 
developing  his  capability  in  the  new  technol- 
ogies. ..  JOHN  J.  PERRONE  is  now  an 
engineer  with  Western  Electric  Co.  in  North 
Andover,  Mass.  .  .  CHARLES  F.  PROCTOR 
has  been  in  Viet  Nam  since  June.  He  is  a 
gas-turbine-engineer  consultant  to  the  U.S. 
Army  and  employed  by  Avco  Lycoming 
Division.  ..  HOWARD  H.  SHORE  writes 
that  he  is  a  law  student  at  the  University  of 
San  Diego  in  California.  .  .  JOHN  E.  SONNE 
writes  that  he  will  be  completing  his  first 
year  in  the  Veterinary  School  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania  in  May. 

RICHARD  ARTHUR  SYMONDS  com- 
pleted his  Army  tour  and  is  now  employed 
by  the  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  in 
Lester,  Pa.  .  .  DUNCAN  C.  VANDERBERG 
is  no  longer  with  the  U.S.  Army  and  is  now 
a  plant  engineer  with  the  Clorox  Co.  in 
Brighton,  Mass. 

1968 

Married:  RICHARD  J.  CAPRIOLI  to 
Miss  Marie  L.  Natale  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
October  25,  1970.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Caprioli  are 
living  in  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  WILLIAM 
F.  DUNHAM,  JR.  to  Miss  Nancy  M.  Dion  of 
Lynn,  Mass.,  on  November  28,  1970.  Bill  is 
a  chemical  engineer  at  the  U.S.  Naval 
Ordnance  Station,  Indian  Head,  Md.  .  . 
JOSEPH  F.  OWENS,  III  to  Miss  Linda 
Baker  of  Syracuse,  N.Y.,  on  May  30,  1970. 
He  is  currently  at  Tufts  University  studying 
for  his  PhD.  ..DAVID  H.  RICE  to  Miss 
Linda  Friedberg  of  Bronx,  New  York  on 
July  18,         1970.  ..JACK         SIEGEL, 

MICHAEL  PAIGE  and  PETER  SALTZ 
ushered  at  the  wedding.  David  received  an 
MS  from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and 
is  now  employed  by  American  Telephone  & 
Telegraph,  Long  Lines,  in  Wayne,  Pa.  .  . 
ROBERT  L.  SMITH  to  Miss  Alice  H. 
Renaud  of  Winooski,  Vermont,  on  October 
10,  1970.  Bob  is  a  systems  engineer  with 
IBM  in  Essex  Jet.,  Vermont. 

Born:  To  Lt.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  A. 
CAPRIO,  a  daughter,  Kerry  Lynn,  on  No- 
vember 27,  1970.  LT.  RICHARD  KUNG 
has  been  transferred  to  Oklahoma  City  Air 


Force  Station,  Okla.  with  the  Air  Force 
Communication  Service. 

Members  of  the  class  serving  in  the 
Army  are:  GEORGE  R.  BAZINET  with  the 
529th  Ordnance  Co.  ..  RICHARD  R. 
BRODEUR  is  stationed  in  Califor- 
nia... CAPT.  CHARLES  T.  CHASE,  after 
serving  two  years  in  Germany,  has  been 
reassigned  to  Viet  Nam  .  .  .  LT.  ROBERT  H. 
DEFLESCO,  JR.  in  Viet  Nam  as  a  fire 
direction  officer  in  an  artillery  bat- 
tery. .  .  LT.  JOHN  R.  HILYARD  stationed 
at  Ft.  Clayton,  Canal  Zone.  .  .  SP/4  PETER 
L.  MARZETTA  at  Fort  Bliss,  Texas.  .  .  The 
bronze  star  has  been  awarded  to  2/LT. 
WILLIAM  E.  NEWTON  who  is  serving  in 
Viet  Nam.  LT.  JAMES  M.  PALMER  re- 
cently received  the  Army  Commendation 
Medal  while  serving  with  the  61st  Artillery 
in  Germany...  DOUGLAS  A.  RILEY  is 
Company  Commander  with  93rd  Engi- 
neering Battalion  Construction. 

Among  those  in  the  United  States  Navy 
are:  VICTOR  V.  CALABRETTA,  JR.,  pro- 
moted to  LT.  (J.G.)  who  is  officer-in-charge 
of  a  Seabee  team  which  will  deploy  soon  for 
the  Pacific  Islands.  .  .  LT.  (J.G.)  EDWARD 
F.  O'HARA  stationed  aboard  the  USS 
Barney. 

ENS.  PETER  S.  HEINS  is  a  pilot  for  the 
Coast  Guard  and  flies  search  and  rescue 
missions  from  Opa  Locka  Airport,  Fla. 

PAUL  J.  ARRUDA,  who  received  his 
MS  from  the  University  of  Delaware  is 
employed  by  E.I.  duPont  in  Deepwater, 
N.J.  .  .  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.  of 
America  employs  RICHARD  L.  COLLINS 
as  an  actuary.  ..  PAUL  D.  EICHAMER  is 
with  Esso  Research  &  Engineering  in  Flor- 
ham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  COBB  S.  GOFF  has  been 
appointed  assistant  director  of  the  MIT 
Practice  School.  ..  RONALD  F.  GOLAS- 
ZEWSKI  is  a  statistician  with  the  Braftco 
Corp.  ..  The  Benwill  Publishing  Corp.  has 
JOSEPH  F.  HILYARD  as  its  Assistant 
Editor  of  Circuits  Manufacturing  Maga- 
zine. .  .  ROUMEN  B.  KORDOF  is  employed 
by  Connecticut  General  Life  Insurance  Co. 
in  Denver,  Colorado.  .  .  The  City  of  Los 
Angeles,  Calif,  employs  HENRY  E.  Mc- 
GUIRE  as  a  Sanitary  Engineer.  ..  SHEL- 
DON A.  MITTLEMAN  is  an  Associate 
Engineer  with  Raytheon  Corp.  in  Ports- 
mouth, R.I.  .  .  Vitro  Laboratories  of  Silver 
Spring,  Md.  employs  THOMAS  C. 
PASIERB.  .  .  RAYMOND  F.  RACINE  who 
works  for  General  Electric  is  now  living  in 
Amherst,  N.H.  ..  TIMOTHY  J.  SCHAF- 
FERNOTH  writes  that  he  recently  received 
his  MS  from  the  University  of  Maine  and  is 
living  in  Granville,  N.Y.  and  is  a  project 
engineer  with  Rist-Frost  Associates.  .  . 
Stone  &  Webster  Eng.  Corp.  employs 
DAVID  R.  SPEIRS  as  a  construction  engi- 
neer in  Boston  and  he  and  his  family  are 
now  living  in  Melrose,  Mass.  .  .  CARLOS  N. 
SPITZ  is  plant  manager  for  Industrias  Hidro- 
mac  de  Colombia  in  South  America. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


41 


_ 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  S.  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


1969 

Married:  GEORGE  G.  DAVENPORT, 
III  to  Miss  Lynn  L.  Larrabee  of  West 
Boylston,  Mass.,  on  August  8,  1970.  R. 
CRAIG  PASTORE  was  best  man,  and 
JAMES  W.  HAURY  was  one  of  the  ushers. 
The  Davenports  are  residing  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.,  where  George  is  an  electrical  engi- 
neer with  United  Illuminating  Co.  .  . 
THOMAS  M.  GWAZDAUSKAS  to  Miss 
Susan  M.  Grigaitis  of  Hudson,  Mass.,  on 
October  24,  1970.  Tom  is  a  chemical 
engineer  with  Humble  Oil  and  Refining  Co. 
in  Bayway,  N.J.  He  and  Susan  are  living  in 
No.  Plainfield.  .  .CHARLES  D.  HARDY, 
JR.  to  Miss  Catherine  A.  Wetherhead  of 
Holden,  Mass.,  on  October  17,  1970.  The 
bride  is  the  daughter  of  Sidney  B.  Wether- 
head, '45.  The  best  man  was  R.  CRAIG 
PASTORE,  and  among  the  ushers  were 
DAVID  E.  JERVIS  and  Philip  C.  Rader,  '70. 
Charlie  is  a  test  engineer  for  General 
Dynamics  in  Quincy,  Mass.  He  and  Cathy 
are  living  in  Braintree.  .  .  Navy  Ens.  DAVID 
E.  KILPATRICK  to  Miss  Judith  E.  Kreutler 
of  Scituate,  Mass.,  on  October  10,  1970. 
They  are  residing  in  Saratoga  Springs,  N.Y., 
where  Dave  is  stationed.  .  .  ERIC  H. 
NICKERSON  to  Miss  Jane  F.  Vance  of  New 
Canaan,  Conn.,  on  August  22,  1970.  One  of 
the  ushers  was  MICHAEL  W.  NOGA.  Eric 
and  Jane  reside  in  Cos  Cob,  Conn.  Burndy 
Corp.  in  Norwalk  employs  Eric  as  a  mechan- 
ical engineer.  ..  TODD  R.  TUOMI  to  Miss 
Valerie  J.  King  of  Bristol,  Conn.,  on  Octo- 
ber 10,  1970.  Todd  is  an  assistant  electrical 
engineer    for    Connecticut    Light    &    Power 


42 


Co.,  Enfield,  Conn.  He  and  Valerie  make 
their  home  in  Ellington.  ..  PETER  R. 
WALSH  to  Miss  Mary  Elizabeth  Millett  of 
Whitman,  Mass.,  on  September  18,  1970. 
Among  the  ushers  was  MICHAEL  G. 
OUELLETTE.  Pete  is  a  service  engineer 
with  General  Electric  Co.  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  .  .  PAUL  C.  WILSON  to  Miss  Elizabeth 
E.  Hadley  of  Wolfeboro,  N.H.,  on  August 
29,  1970.  EDWARD  A.  OLSZEWSKI,  JR., 
'68,  was  best  man.  The  couple  is  living  in 
Worcester,  Mass.,  while  Paul  pursues  gradu- 
ate studies  at  WPI.  ..  BARRY  N.  SHIF- 
FRIN  writes  that  he  was  married  to  Miss 
Ronda  L.  Freeman  of  Worcester  on  June  28, 
1970.  Barry  is  an  Associate  Engineer  with 
the  IBM  Corporation  in  Endicott,  N.Y. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  WARREN  F. 
FOLLETT,  a  daughter,  Heidi  Lynn  on 
October  19,  1970.  Rick  is  an  electrical 
engineer  with  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Culver 
City,  California. 

The  following  '69'ers  are  in  the  United 
States  Air  Force:  2/LT.  WARREN  L. 
ANDERSON  has  been  assigned  to  Reese 
AFB,  Tex.,  for  pilot  training.  .  .  Silver  wings 
have  been  awarded  to  2/Lt.  CRAIG  L 
MADING  upon  graduation  from  navigator 
training  at  Mather  AFB,  Calif.  Craig  has 
been  assigned  to  Nellis  AFB,  Nev.,  for  flying 
duty  with  a  unit  of  the  Tactical  Air  Com- 
mand. ..  Vance  AFB,  Enid,  Okla.,  is  the 
location  of  2/LT.  DOUGLAS  A.  NELSON, 
a  pilot. 

Members  of  the  class  now  serving  in  the 
Army  are:  2/LT.  CHARLES  T.  DOE,  at  Ft. 
Sill.   Okla.;   PETER    T.   GROSCH,  in   Viet 


Nam  with  the  Corps  of  Engineers;  LT. 
CLIFFORD  M.  OBERTUCK,  near  Schwet- 
zingen,  Germany,  with  the  strategic  com- 
munications command,  operations  branch. 
ROBERT  C.  BALCER  received  his  MS 
in  aeronautics  from  Caltech  in  June,  1970, 
and  is  now  with  IBM  Corp.  in  Glendale, 
Calif.,  as  a  marketing  trainee.  .  .  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  E.  Hartford,  Conn.,  is 
CHESTER  D.  BLACKMAN,  JR.'s  employer. 
He  is  a  materials  engineer  and  makes  his 
home  in  Manchester.  ..  CAMERON  P. 
BOYD  is  a  teacher  at  Nettle  Elementary 
School  in  Haverhill,  Mass.,  where  he  also 
makes  his  home.  ..  GREGORY  B.  ENZ, 
who  lives  in  Attleboro,  Mass.,  is  a  planning 
engineer  with  New  England  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.  in  Boston.  .  .The  west  coast 
sales  representative  and  Los  Angeles  district 
sales  office  manager  for  Hooker  Chemical 
Corp.'s  Durey  Div.  is  JEROME  B.  FLYNN, 
JR.  Jerry  lives  in  Marina  Del  Rey.  ..  An- 
other member  of  the  class  employed  by 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  E.  Hartford, 
Conn,  is  MICHAEL  GAN.  Mike  is  a  design 
engineer,  and  his  home  is  in  Manchester.  .  . 
DOUGLAS  J.  GEORGE  is  in  the  manage- 
ment training  program  at  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Lynn,  Mass.  Doug  makes  his  home  in 
Needham.  .  .  It's  DR.  DAVID  G.  HEALEY 
now.  Dave  received  his  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Maine  last  sum- 
mer. .  .  ANDREW  J.  HEMAN  writes  that  he 
is  a  graduate  student  at  MIT  in  Cam- 
bridge. .  .  LAWRENCE  KATZMAN  is  doing 
something  about  air  pollution.  He  is  a 
technical     assistant     at     Bethlehem     Steel 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL  <| 


Corp.'s  Air  Pollution  Laboratory,  Sparrows 
Point,  Md.  Larry  lives  in  Towson.  .  . 
BHIKHUBHAI  M.  MISTRY,  MS,  is  a  struc- 
tural engineer  with  Jackson  &  Moreland, 
Inc.  in  Boston,  Mass.  Bhikhu  makes  his 
home  in  Brookline.  .  .  Also  located  in 
Boston,  MICHAEL  J.  PUNCHEKUNNEL, 
MS,  is  a  research  assistant  with  Boston 
Biomedical  Research  Institute.  Mike  lives  in 
Cambridge.  .  .  FRANCIS  W.  SKWIRA,  MS, 
writes:  "I  am  now  on  education  leave  from 
General  Electric,  and  have  initiated  studies 
toward  a  PhD  degree  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering at  the  Georgia  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy. My  studies  are  being  financed  under  a 
N.A.S.A.  Complex  Systems  Design  Trainee- 
ship,  which  I  have  been  granted  for  three 
years.".  .  .We  have  learned  that  STEPHEN 
W.  SPAKOWSKY  is  a  chemical  engineer 
with  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester, 
N.Y.  .  .The  new  building  superintendent  at 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co.  in 
New  Haven,  Conn,  is  LEON  F.  WENDEL- 
OWSKI.  He  was  a  staff  assistant  at  the  time 
of  his  recent  promotion.  Leon  resides  in 
West  Haven.  .  .  J.  F.  White  Contracting  Co. 
in  Newton,  Mass.  has  a  project  engineer  in 
the  person  of  WILLIAM  L.  WILLAND. 
Bill's  home  is  in  Worcester. 

1970 

Married:  OLIVER  G.  BRIGGS,  JR.  to 
Miss  Carol  Lee  Davis  of  Holden,  Mass.,  on 
September  26,  1970.  They  are  residing  in 
Baltimore,  Md.,  where  Oliver  is  an  assistant 


project      engineer      with      Koppers      Co.  .  . 

PETER  A.  CRONIN  to  Miss  Arlene  Theresa 
Ferris  of  No.  Reading,  Mass.,  on  August  30, 
1970.  The  best  man  was  JOHN  J.  LYONS. 
Peter  has  a  teaching  fellowship  under  the 
doctorate  program  at  Boston  Univer- 
sity. ..  DANIEL  A.  CZERNICKI  to  Miss 
Mary  Beth  Denn  of  Albany,  N.Y.,  on 
October  17,  1970.  One  of  the  ushers  was 
BRUCE  S.  ROBINSON.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Czernicki  make  their  home  in  Narragansett, 
R.I.  Dan  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New- 
port. ..  WILLIAM  J.  HAKKINEN  to  Miss 
Virginia  M.  Jean  of  Gardner,  Mass.,  on 
October  25,  1970.  The  ushers  were  JAMES 
G.  HANNOOSH,  JOHN  P.  DEMASE,  and 
LAURENCE  P.  VALLEE.  Bill  is  a  produc- 
tion engineer  with  Chas.  Pfizer  and  Co., 
Groton,  Conn.,  and  he  and  Virginia  are 
living  in  New  London.  .  .  JERRY  L.  JOHN- 
SON to  Miss  Lisa  L.  Sjosten  of  Holden, 
Mass.,  on  August  29,  1970.  Among  the 
ushers  was  JOEL  P.  GREENE,  '69,  and 
CRAIG  D.  OLMSTEAD  was  best  man.  The 
couple  resides  in  Worcester,  where  Jerry  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Holy  Cross  College.  .  . 

ROBERT  J.  KELLEY  to  Miss  Marie  C. 
Voghel  of  Waterbury,  Conn.,  on  October  9, 
1970.  Bob  is  an  engineer  with  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.  He  and  Marie  live  in  Water- 
bury.  ..  GERALD  E.  PIEPIORA  to  Miss 
Cathleen  A.  Bonnette  of  Turners  Falls, 
Mass.,  on  October  17,  1970.  A  resident  of 


Reisterstown,  Md.,  Gerry  is  an  engineering 
field  representative  for  Freeimire  and  Asso- 
ciates in  Baltimore.  .  .  MARC  E.  SCHWEIG 
to  Miss  Ellyn  A.  Handorff  of  Chelsea,  Mass. 
Marc  is  an  electrical  engineer  at  Western 
Electric  Co.,  No.  Andover,  Mass.  ..  RICH- 
ARD H.  STEEVES  to  Miss  Kathleen  A 
Kaegebein    of    Findlay,    Ohio,   on    June    7 

1970.  JOHN  W.  SZTUKA,  JR.  and  THAD 
DEUS  J.  LELEK  were  two  of  the  ushers 
The  couple's  home  is  in  Acton,  Mass.,  and 
Dick  is  employed  as  a  manufacturing  engi 
neer  by  W.R.  Grace   &  Co.,  Cambridge.  . 

LAURENCE  P.  VALLEE  to  Miss  Janet  A 
Hirons  of  Gardner,  Mass.,  on  July  19,  1970 
Among  the   ushers  were  JAMES  G.  HAN 
NOOSH     and     WILLIAM     J.    HAKKINEN 
Larry   and   Janet  are   living   in   Willimantic 
Conn.,    while    Larry    pursues    his    master's 
degree  in  structural  engineering  at  the  Uni- 
versity   of    Connecticut  at   Storrs.  .  .  JOHN 
W.  SZTUKA,  JR.,  to  Miss  Lynn  M.  Farrell 
of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on  December  5,  1970. 
Among     the     ushers     was     RICHARD     H. 
STEEVES.  John   is  a  technical  sales  repre- 
sentative   for    Hercules,    Inc.    in    Chicopee, 
Mass.    He   and    Lynn    make  their  home   in 
Agawam.  .  .  ALAN    F.   HASSETT  to   Linda 
L.    Hudson   of   Westfield,   N.J.  Alan    is  em- 
ployed as  a  civil  engineer  at  O'Brien  &  Gere 
of  Syracuse,  N.Y. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ROBERT  PETTI - 
ROSSI,  a  son,  Barry  Joseph,  on  January  1, 

1971.  Barry  was  the  first  baby  born  in 
Greater    Lawrence,   Mass.   in   1971    and  was 


Creative  Engineering  =  Precision    +    Productivity 


For  the  manufacturer  who  needs  a  machine 
for  long  or  short  runs,  for  sequential  or 
simultaneous  operations,  for  fast  setups,  low 
tooling  costs,  high  precision,  high  produc- 
tion and  extreme  versatility,  the  Heald 
Model  422A  NC  Borematic  fills  the  bill. 

It  was  designed  that  way  .  .  .  to  satisfy  all 
those  requirements.  Heald's  imaginative 
engineers  created  this  machine  to  do  a  wide 
range  of  things  well.  They  designed  it  to 
operate  by  numerical  control  for  speed, 
quality  assurance  and  flexibility. 

This  is  another  case  where  Heald  creative 
engineering,  combined  with  the  finest  preci- 
sion components  available,  has  solved  some 
of  the  more  complex  machining  problems  of 
manufacturers  the  world  over. 

The  422A  NC  offers  a  breakthrough  wher- 
ever a  variety  of  parts  are  to  be  machined. 

For  ingenuity  in  solving  all  kinds  of  machin- 
ing problems,  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald, 
where  metalworking  needs  meet  new  ideas! 


I  E  WPI  JOURNAL 


C 


CINCINNATI 
MILACRON 

Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


43 


the  subject  of  an  article  in  the  local  news- 
paper. As  Barry's  parents,  Bob  and  Nancy 
received  savings  accounts  and  other  useful 
gifts  from  local  merchants.  Bob  is  an  electri- 
cal engineer  with  Western  Electric  Co. 

The  following  members  of  the  class  of 
'70  are  in  various  branches  of  the  service: 
DONALD  F.  BOLDUC  is  a  second  lieuten- 
ant in  the  U.S.  Army  Finance  Corps  at  Ft. 
Benjamin  Harrison,  Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  . 
PETER  J.  DENONCOURT  is  a  Seaman  in 
the  U.S.  Coast  Guard.  .  .  Army  2/LT. 
THOMAS  G.  MALLORY  is  stationed  at  Ft. 
Benning,  Ga.  .  .  Airman  JAMES  A.  RYAN  is 
with  the  USAF  Communications  Electronics 
Systems  at  Keesler  AFB,  Miss.  .  .  Bechtel 
Corp.  in  San  Francisco,  Calif,  employs 
JOSEPH  BECHER  as  an  electrical  engineer. 
He  lives  in  Walnut  Creek.  .  .  BERNARD  J. 
DODGE  is  with  the  Peace  Corps,  teaching 
high  school  mathematics  in  Sierra  Leone, 
West  Africa.  .  .STEPHEN  G.  KOSH- 
GARIAN  is  enrolled  in  the  Babson  College 
master  of  business  administration  degree 
program.  Babson  is  located  in  Wellesley, 
Mass.  ..  PETER  F.  LALOR  is  a  research 
assistant  at  the  University  of  Connecticut, 
Storrs.  He  and  his  wife,  Mariellen,  make 
their  home  in  Willimantic.  .  .  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft's  Florida  Research  and 
Development  Center  in  W.  Palm  Beach 
employs  RAYMOND  C.  PAULK  as  a  design 
engineer.  Ray  lives  in  Lake  Park,  Fla.  .  .  No. 
Andover,  Mass.  is  the  location  of  MASON  B. 
PECK.  He  is  an  engineer  with  Western 
Electric  Co.  .  .  DAVID  A.  QUAGLINI,  JR. 
is  a  mechanical  engineer  with  the  National 
Security  Agency  at  Ft.  George  G.  Meade, 
Md.   Dave  and  his  family  live  in   Laurel.  .  . 

RICHARD  B.  ROCK,  who  makes  his  home 
in  Marlton,  N.J.,  is  a  project  engineer  with 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Inc., 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  Buffalo,  N.Y.  is  the  loca- 
tion of  BRUCE  E.  SAMUELSON,  who  is  a 
sales  engineer  with  Buffalo  Forge  Co.  .  .  E. 
RICHARD  SCHOLZ  is  employed  by  the 
Massachusetts  Engineering  Dept.  of  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  Fram- 
ingham,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife,  Irene,  live  in 
Woonsocket,  R.I...  LOUIS  W.  ZITNAY, 
who  lives  in  Hillside,  III.,  is  an  assistant 
project  engineer  with  Turner  Construction 
Co.  in  Chicago.  .  .  Norton  Co.'s  Machine 
Tool  Div.  employs  FRANK  J.  ZONE,  JR., 
MS,  as  a  research  engineer.  Frank  makes  his 
home  in  Worcester.  ..  RICHARD  F. 
ABRAMS  is  a  process  development  engineer 
with  W.R.  Grace  &  Co.,  Polymers  &  Chemi- 
cal Div.,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  Dick's  home  is 
in  Wakefield.  .  .  Sunny  California  is  the  loca- 
tion of  PHILIP  D.  BARTLETT,  JR.  Phil  is 
with  Southern  California  Edison  Co.  in  Los 
Angeles.  .  .  Army  Pvt.  DANIEL  K.  BREEN 
recently  completed  an  eight-week  military 
police  course  at  the  U.S.  Army  Training 
Center,  Ft.  Gordon,  Ga.  .  .  Also  in  the 
Army.   2/LT.    RONALD   J.    DLUGOSZ  re- 


cently completed  a  nine-week  ordnance 
officer  basic  course  at  the  Army  Ordnance 
Center  and  School,  Aberdeen  Proving 
Ground,  Md.  .  .  HEMANT  D.  MEHTA,  MS, 
is  a  structural  engineer  with  A.  Woolf  & 
Associates  in  Boston,  Mass.  His  home  is  in 
Allston.  .  .  Foster  Plumbing  &  Heating  Co. 
in  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  employs  KENNETH 
H.  MORGAN  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  .  . 
FREDERICK  A.  GOLEC  writes  that  he  is  a 


The 

Tech  Chair  . 

Perhaps  you  can't  endow  one  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $29.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON    ROCKER 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  27)^» 
Price:  $34.00 


teaching  assistant  in  the  Chemistry  Dept.  of 
Boston  University.  .  .  LEONARD  POLIZ- 
ZOTTO,  head  counselor  of  Daniels  Hall  and 
a  graduate  student  at  WPI,  has  had  two 
music  books  published:  Volumes  I  and  II  of 
Off-Beat  Drumming,  consisting  of  rhythm 
patterns  and  advice  for  the  rock  drum- 
mer. .  .  FRANK  J.  ZONE  is  now  a  Research 
Engineer  with  the  Norton  Co.  of  Worcester, 
Mass. 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Seat  to  top  of  back:  21  ' 
Price:  $41. (Ml      (Black  Arnui) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $42.00      (Cherry    Vrmi) 


Send  vniir  remittuner  ami  muki'  check*  pu>  able  I" 

W.P.I.    H,H,k»|.,rr 

MmifhnietH  rcHidenlH  add  3%  Rolen  tax. 
\ll  ohaira  ibipped  F.O.B.,  Gardner,  Mass. 


DIRECTORY  OF  CHAPTER  OFFICERS 


Berkshire 

President,  P.  J.  Hopkinson,  '66,  65  Clydesdale  Dr.,  Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Secretary-Treasurer,  R.  K.  Quattrochi,  '49,  1150  Holmes  Rd., 

Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Council,  F.  J.  Gamari,  '54,  20  Sand  Springs  Rd.,  Williamstown,  Mass.  01  267 

Boston 

President,  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  45  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  02181 
Vice  President,  J.  W.  Lebourveau,  '44.  1 74  Washington  Ave., 

Needham,  Mass.  02192 
Secretary,  R.  D.  Behn,'63,  90  Ellery  St.,  Apt.  14,  Cambridge,  Mass.  02138 
Treasurer,  T.  B.  Newman,  Jr.,  '64,  Emerson  Gardens,  Apt.  1 1 . 

Lexington,  Mass.  02173 
Council,  E.  C.  Hoglund,  '27,  26  Willowdale  Rd.,  Winchester.  Mass.  01890 
E.  Lagerholm,  '44,  1 00  Memorial  Dr.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  021 42 
J.  R.  Corf,  '46,  30  Thornberry,  Winchester,  Mass.  01 890 
R.  D.  Behn,  '63,  see  above. 

Central  New  York 

President,  R.  W.  Swanson, '51 ,  301  Windsor  Dr.,  DeWitt,  N.Y.  13214 
Secretary.  N.  T.  Buske.  '59,  220  Hickok  Ave.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  13206 
Council,  D.  W.  Prosser,  '61,  6  Florence  St.,  Auburn,  N.Y.  13021 

Chicago 

President,  D.  A.  Johnson,  '60,  21 1 0  Lilac  Terrace,  Arlington  Heights,  III.  60004 
I   Council,  R.  A.  Berg,  '59,  1433  Fairway  Dr.,  Lake  Forest,  III.  60045 

Cincinnati 

President,  R.  W.  Parks,  '41 ,  3736  Ashworth  Dr.,  Apt.  A,  Cincinnati,  Ohio  45208 

Cleveland- Akron 

i   President,  R.  D.  Popp, '54,  515  Parkside  Dr.,  Bay  Village,  Ohio  44140 
Vice  President,  R.  B.  Sundheim,  '58,  3642  Traynham  Rd., 

Shaker  Heights,  Ohio  44120 
Council,  L.  C.  Leavitt,  '34,  1 334  Cleveland  Heights  Blvd., 
Cleveland  Heights,  Ohio  441  21 

Connecticut  Valley 

President,  L.  E.  Stratton,  '39,  74  Carlisle  St.,  Springfield,  Mass.  01 109 
I    Vice  President,  D.  J.  Schulz, '61,  Granville  Rd.,  Southwick,  Mass.  01077 
Secretary,  P.  J.  Brown,  '50,  50  Van  Horn  St.,  W.  Springfield.  Mass.  01 089 
Treasurer,  S.  P.  Mozden,  Jr.,  '63,  55  Lee  St.,  E.  Longmeadow,  Mass.  01 028 
Council,  P.  E.  Evans,  '48,  69  Clairmont  St.,  Longmeadow,  Mass.  01461 
A.  L.  Brownlee,  '33,  Feeding  Hills  Rd.,  Westfield,  Mass.  01 085 

Detroit 

President,  E.  H.  Judd,  '50,  1231  Linden  St.,  Plymouth,  Mich.  48170 

Eastern  Connecticut 

I   President,  H.  N.  Harris,  Jr.,  '57,  32  Corey  Lane,  Niantic,  Conn.  06357 
Vice  President,  N.  M.  Carignan,  '58,  568  Cow  Hill  Rd„  Mystic,  Conn.  06335 
Secretary-Treasurer,  V.  P.  Dufault,  '62,  28  Sequin  Rd.,  Noank,  Conn.  06340 

;    Council,  J.  M.  Danis,  '67,  128  Providence  St.,  Taftville,  Conn.  06380 

Hartford 

I    President,  J.  F.  Barresi,  '60,  28  Stagecoach  Rd.,  Windsor,  Conn.  06095 
!    Vice  President,  P.  R.  Cultrera,'62,  Bunker  Hill  Rd.,  Canton  Center,  Conn.  06020 
Secretary,  C.  H.  Bidwell,  Jr.,  '57,  21 9  Naubuc  Ave.,  E.  Hartford,  Conn  061 1 8 
Treasurer,  W.  L.  Brown,  '60,  3  Redstone,  Weatogue,  Conn.  06089 
|    Council,  E.  C.  Campbell,  '43,  1  5  Fairfield  Rd„  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  061 1 7 
G.  F.  Crowther,  '37,  20  Bates  St.,  Hartford,  Conn.  061 14 

Hudson -Mohawk 

'    President,  J.  J.  Osvald,  '65,  1 138  Hendrickson  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  12308 
|    Vice  President,  H.  A.  Christopher,  '61 .  1 05  Acorn  Dr.,  Scotia,  N.Y.  1 2302 
Secretary-Treasurer,  B.Sinder,  '64,1 01  Front  St.,  Apt.  2,  Schenectady,  N.Y.1 2305 
Delegate,  B.  A.  Podberesky,  '58,  876  Whitney  Dr.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  12309 

Los  Angeles 
President,?.  C.Yankauskas,'42, 4508  Blackthorne  Ave.,  Long  Beach,  Calif.  90808 
Vice  President,  D.  R.  Bates,  '40,  2999  E.  Ocean  Blvd.,  Apt.  *  1 1 20, 
Long  Beach,  Calif.  90803 

New  Haven 

President,  J.  J.  Conroy,  Jr..  '46C,  255  Riverside  Dr.,  Mt.  Carmel,  Conn.  06518 
Vice  President,  H.  S.  Altenburg,  '65,  28  Remer  St.,  Ansonia,  Conn.  06401 
Secretary-Treasurer,  N.J.  Barone,'65,  266  Chapel  St.,  Milford,  Conn.  06465 
Council,  C.  W.  McElroy,  '34,  25  Bear  Path  Rd„  Hamden,  Conn.  06514 
J.  M.  Halloran,  Jr., '40,  63  Mowry  St.,  Hamden,  Conn.  06518 

New  York 

President,  S.  L.  Vrusho,  '57,  IBM  Corp.,  2  Penn  Plaza,  New  York,  N.Y.  10001 
Vice  President,  J.J.  Gushaw,  '35,  999  Roxbury  Dr.,  Westbury,  N.Y.  1 1 590 
Treasurer.  G.  P.  Vittas,  '63,  2101  Voorhies  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  1 1 235 
Council,  J.  A.  Birch,  '34, 1 534  Wellington  Rd.,  Merrick,  N.Y.  1 1 566 
S.  J.  Spencer,  '49,  5  Normandy  Rd.,  Larchmont,  N.Y.  1 0538 
T.  B.  Graham, '38,  15  Circle  Rd.,  Scarsdale,  N.Y.  10583 


North  Shore 

President,  D.  E.  Snay,  '63,  Queensland  Rd.,  N.  Billerica,  Mass.  01862 

Vice  President,  D.  R.  Ekstrom,  63,  16  Hathaway  Ave.,  Beverly,  Mass.  01915 

Secretary-Treasurer,  W '.  C.  Goodchild,  '40,  1  Woodbury  Dr., 

Beverly,  Mass.  01915 
Council.  J.  M.  Szymanski.  '62,  Paradise  Travel  Service,  Inc.,  127  Harvard  St 

Allston,  Mass.  02134 

Northern  California 

President,  F.  D.  Riley, '63, 10435  Dempster  Ave.,  Cupertino,  Calif.  95014 
Secretary,  J.  A.  Alfieri,  '59,  22465  Rancho  Ventura,  *  B,  Cupertino,  Calif.  95014 

Northern  New  Jersey 

President,  S.  K.  Lee,  '60,  317  Lawn  Ridge  Rd.,  Orange,  N.  J.  07050 
Vice  President,  V.  E.  Kohman.  '43.  32  Summit  Rd.,  Verona,  N.J.  07044 
Vice  President,  P.  W.  Bayliss,  '60,  40  Molly  Stark  Dr.,  Morristown,  N.J.  07960 
Secretary,  W.  R.  Hopkins,  '65,  37  W.  Ruby  Ave.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J.  07650 
Treasurer,  H.  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56,  74  Golf  St.,  W.  Long  Branch,  N.J.  07764 
Council,  N.  J.  Taupeka.  '58,  105  Stony  Hill  Rd.,  Eatontown,  N.J.  07724 
J.  L.  Reid.  '51,  31  Spring  Garden  Dr.,  Madison,  N.J.  07940 

Pacific  Northwest 

President,  P.  J  Topelian,  '30,  443  160th  Ave,,  S.E.,  Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 
Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  M.  Lloyd,  II,  '51, 15714  S.E.  26th  St., 
Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 

Philadelphia 

President,  J.  F.  Howe,  Jr.,  '57,  2217  Winding  Way,  Drexel  Hill,  Pa.  19026 

Pittsburgh 

President,  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55,  804  Ella  St.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15216 
Vice  President,  A.  D.  Tripp,  Jr.,  '36,  21 2  Connecting  Rd.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1  5228 
Secretary-Treasurer,  G.  B.  Brown, '55,  140  Sunset  Dr.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15235 
Council,  L.  H.  Longton,  Jr., '49,  1  20  Watt  Lane,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15221 

Rhode  Island 

President,  J.  K.  Karalekas,  '58.  74  Ferncrest  Dr.,  E.  Providence,  R.I.  02914 
Secretary-Treasurer,  H.F.  DiZoglio,'60,  RFD  1,  Box  451,  N.  Scituate,  R.I.  02857 
Council,  W.  R.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58,  37  Fir  Glade  Dr.,  Warwick,  R.I.  02886 

Rochester-Genesee 

President,  R.  P.  Kostka,  '63,  14  Bryn  Mawr  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14624 
Vice  President.  L.  J.  Rossi,  '61,  214  Elmgrove  Rd„  Rochester,  N.Y.  14624 
Secretary -Treasurer,  C.  E.  Hunt,  Jr., '34,  8  Birmingham  Dr.,  Rochester,  N.Y  14618 
Council,  A.  R.  Hunderup,  '56,  625  Shadyglen  Circle,  Webster,  N.Y.  14580 

Southeastern 

President,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  557  E.  Wesley  Rd.,  N.E.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  30305 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.  C.  Bragg,  '24,  595  McAfee  St.,  N.W.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  30313 
Council,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  see  above. 

Washington 

President,  K.  A.  Homon,  '62,  7704  Miller  Fall  Rd.,  Rockville,  Md.  20855 
Vice  President,  D.  M.  Cornell,  '60,  9  N.  Summit  Dr.,  Apt.  302, 

Gaithersburg,  Md   20760 
Secretary,  C.  C.  Clark,  '45,  23  Seminole  Ave.,  Baltimore,  Md.  21228 
Treasurer.  H.  Richard  Freeman,  '61,  236  Hannes  St.,  Silver  Spring,  Md.  20901 

Western  New  York 

President,  K.  R.  Berggren,  Jr., '49,  685  Porterville  Rd.,  E.Aurora,  N.Y.  14052 
Vice  President,  J.  H.  Geffken, '63,379  Fruitwood  Terr.,  Williamsville,  N.Y.  14221 
Secretary-Treasurer,  J.  M.  Kelly,  Jr.,  '63,  121  Old  Farm  Circle, 

Williamsville,  N.Y.  14221 
Council,  F.  W.  Swan,  Jr., '35, 128  Church  St.,  E.Aurora,  N.Y.  14052 

Wilmington 

President,  H.  F.  DeCarli,  '52,  2405  Landon  Dr.,  Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Ferrari,  '51 ,  2404  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Vice  President,  J.  D.  Lojewski,  '52,  2403  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Secretary,  D.  A.  Kujala,  '52,  2411  Sweet  Briar  Rd.,  Tarleton, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Treasurer,  R.  F.  Smith,  III, '61,  3351  Altamont  Dr.,  Devonshire, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Council,  P.  Michelman/51,2410  Lori  Lane  South,  Tarleton, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 

Worcester 

President,  F.  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53,  F.  W.  Madigan  Co.,  54  Mason  St., 

Worcester,  Mass.  01610 
Vice  President,  R.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56,  WPI,  Admissions  Office, 

Worcester,  Mass.  01609 
Secretary,  J.  H.  McCabe,  '68,  9  Brownell  Circle,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 
Treasurer,  C.  W.  Mello,  '61 ,  6  Orrison  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 609 
Council,  A.  J.  Ruksnaitis,  '53,  32  Saxon  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
N.  M.  Gamache,  '38,  10  Midland  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 
C.  W.  Mello,  '61 ,  see  above. 

R.  P.  Engvall,  '57,  30  Conger  Rd.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
N.  J.  Crowley,  '50,  26  Willard  Ave.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 
S.  R.  Lindberg/51,98  Beechwood  Rd„  Holden,  Mass.  01520 
P.  F.  Seibold,  '50,  6  Olean  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01602 


The  cost  blaster. 


That's  another  name  for  Norton 
MASTERBIAST,"""  a  new  abrasive 
material  that  can  blow  the  daylights  out 
of  your  metal  conditioning  costs! 

Masterblast  is  a  super  strong,  sintered 
abrasive  that  lasts  more  than  7)/i  times 
longer  than  other  surface  conditioning 
abrasives.  Because  of  its  extreme  durability 


and  cutting  efficiency,  Masterblast  permits 
savings  of  25%  and  more  on  a  wide 
variety  of  metal  conditioning  operations. 
This  cost-cutting  abrasive  can  be  used 
with  most  pressure  systems  and  requires  no 
special  blasting  equipment.  It  virtually 
eliminates  dust  and  improves  workpiece 
visibility.  Pollution  problems  are  minimized. 


It  will  also  reduce  rusting  of  parts  because 
of  its  iron-free  surface. 

Take  advantage  of  our  No  Risk  Test 
Policy  now  and  find  out  what  Masterblast 
can  do  for  you.  Ask  your  Norton  Distributor 
for  more  details  or  write  Norton  Company, 
Abrasive  Materials  Division,  333  New  Bond 
Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01606.  a-?ii 


:      : ...  ^ 


vwr 


NORTON 


ABRASIVE  MATERIALS  DIVISION 


