Books 

By  Tolkien. 

The  Lord  of  the  Rings. 

Tolkien's  epic  trilogy  ( The  Fellowship  of  the  Ring , The  Two 
Towers,  and  The  Return  of  the  King ) tells  the  story  of  Frodo 
Baggins,  who  must  bear  the  dangerous  Ruling  Ring  to  the  fires 
of  Mount  Doom,  the  only  place  in  which  it  can  be  destroyed. 


The  Hobbit. 

Sixty  years  before  The  Lord  of  the  Rings,  the  hobbit  Bilbo 
Baggins  is  conscripted  into  an  adventure  with  dwarves.  On  the 
way,  Bilbo  encounters  a creature  called  Gollum,  and  acquires  a 
peculiar  magic  ring. 

The  Silmarillion. 

In  these  stories  collected  and  edited  by  his  son,  J.R.R.  Tolkien 
tells  the  mythology  of  Middle  Earth,  from  the  creation  of  the 
world  to  the  rebellion  of  the  elves  and  the  fall  of  Numenor, 
through  the  story  of  the  stolen  jewels  called  Silmarils. 

Unfinished  Tales 

A collection  of  "smaller"  stories  about  Middle  Earth. 

History  of  Middle  Earth. 

A several-volume  collection  of  notes  and  drafts  on  The  Lord  of 
the  Rings,  edited  and  with  notes  by  Christopher  Tolkien. 

The  Tolkien  Reader. 

A collection  of  Tolkien's  smaller  works,  including  the  parable 
"Leaf  by  Niggle,"  the  tale  of  "Farmer  Giles  of  Ham,"  and 
Tolkien's  famous  essay,  "On  Fairy  Stories." 

Letters  of  J.R.R.  Tolkien 

Tolkien's  opinions  on  everything...  especially  Middle  Earth. 


About  Tolkien. 

J.R.R.  Tolkien:  Author  of  the  Century , by  Tom  Shippey. 

Shippey,  a professor  of  literature,  defends  his  choice  of  Tolkien 
as  one  of  the  20th  century's  most  important  authors. 

Meditations  on  Middle  Earth , edited  by  Karen  Haber 
Essays  on  Lord  of  the  Rings  by  well-known  authors,  including 
Orson  Scott  Card,  Ursula  K.  LeGuin,  and  Terry  Pratchett. 

Tolkien:  A Biography,  by  Humphrey  Carpenter 

The  best  known  and  most  complete  biography  of  the  author. 

Tolkien  and  The  Lord  of  the  Rings:  A Guide  to  Middle 
Earth,  by  Colin  Duriez. 

A look  at  various  aspects  of  Tolkien's  world,  with  an  A-Z  guide. 
Tolkien's  Ring,  by  David  Day. 

Scholar  David  Day  traces  the  evolution  of  Middle  Earth. 
Illustrated  by  Alan  Lee. 

Videos 

The  Hobbit  (Rankin-Bass) 

The  1978  cartoon  version  of  Bilbo  Baggins'  adventure,  complete 
with  singing  dwarves. 

The  Return  of  the  King  (Rankin-Bass) 

The  1979  cartoon  that  follows  the  end  of  Frodo's  quest,  as  he 
and  Sam  make  their  way  across  the  plains  of  Mordor  to  Mt. 
Doom.  Complete  with  singing  Ores. 

The  Lord  of  the  Rings  / a Ralph  Bakshi  film. 

Bakshi's  half-complete  filming  of  the  trilogy  ends  in  the  middle 
of  The  Two  Towers,  and  employs  a unique  mix  of  pure 
animation  and  traced  live  action,  or  rotoscoping. 


The  Lord  of  the  Rings,  the  Fellowship  of  the  Ring  / 

directed  by  Peter  Jackson.  VHS  and  DVD. 

Peter  Jackson's  version  of  the  first  book  of  the  trilogy. 


.'w  ǥ 


The  Lord  of  the  Rings:  The  Fellowship  of  the  Ring: 
National  Geographic  Beyond  the  Movie  / 

National  Geographic's  special  about  the  various  real  world 
concerns  that  influenced  J.R.R.  Tolkien. 

The  Master  of  the  Rings  / Producer/Director  Stephen  Grant. 
A video  look  at  Middle  Earth  and  J.R.R.  Tolkien. 


Websites 

Lord  of  the  Rings  - The  Official  Movie  Site 

http:  //www.  iordoftherings.  net/ 

Go  behind  the  scenes  of  Peter  Jackson's  screen  adaptation  of 
Lord  of  the  Rings,  download  images  and  screensavers,  shop  for 
LotR-related  merchandise,  and  join  the  fan  club. 

TheOneRing.net 

http  ://www.  theonering.  net/ 

One  of  the  largest  fan  sites  on  the  web,  TheOneRing  offers 
material  on  Tolkien  and  exclusive  information  on  Tolkien 
fandom,  and  news  and  rumors  about  the  Peter  Jackson  films. 
Includes  a fan  area,  with  fiction,  music,  art,  and  discussion. 

The  Elvish  Linguistic  Fellowship 

http://www.  elvish,  org/ 

The  Elvish  Society  studies  Professor  Tolkien's  created  language, 
Elvish,  and  includes  its  own  scholarly  journal  on  the  subject. 


Book  list  by  Barbara  Walton,  Young  Adults  Room,  Boston  Public  Library 

December,  2002. 


