Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


■>     = . 


■  ;■   ^  '%   > 


>     » 


KING  ARTHUR 


AND    THE 


KNIGHTS  OF  THE  ROUND  TABLE. 


A  MODERNIZED  VERSION  OF 
THE    **MORTE    DARTHUR." 


BY 

CHARLES    MORRIS, 

AUTHOR  OF  "half-hours  WITH  THE  BEST  AMERICAN  AUTHORS,"   BTC 


VOL.     I. 


PHILADELPHIA: 

J.   B.   LIPPINCOTT    COMPANY 

1908. 


1^5  K5 


OopyrlKht;  1891,  by  J.  B.  Lippinoott  Company. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  I 


BOOK  I. 
HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

CHAPTEB.  PAOa. 

I. — The  Magic  Swobd 19 

II. — Arthur's    Wars    and    the    Mystery    op   his 

Birth 28 

III. — The  Lady  of  the  Lake 39 

IV. — Guenever  and  the  Round  Table 46 

BOOK  II. 
THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

I. — How  Balin  won  and  used  the  Enchanted 

Sword ;)5 

II. — How  Arthur  Triumphed  over  the  Kings  ....     65 

III. How  ^^AUN  GAVE  THE  DoLOROUS  STROKE 72 

IV. — ^The  Fate  op  Balin  and  Balan 81 

V. — ^Merlin's  Folly  and  Fate 89 

BOOK  III. 
THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

I. — ^The  Adventure  of  the  Enchanted  Ship 94 

II. — The  Combat  of  Arthur  and  Accolan 102 

III. — How  Morgan  cheated  the  King 110 

IV. — The  Countbt  op  Strange  Adventures 120 

1 


11  CONTENTS    TO    VOLUME    I. 

BOOK  IV. 
LANCELOT  DU  LAKE. 

CHAPTEB.  PAOB. 

I. — How  Trouble  game  to  Lionel  and  Hector.  .  137 

II. — The  Contest  of  the  Four  Queens 143 

III. — How  Lancelot  and  Turquine  Fought 153 

IV. — The  Chapel  Perilous 164 

V. — The  Adventure  of  the  Falcon 174 

BOOK  V. 
THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

I. — The  KnighTiNg  of  Kay's  Kitchen  Boy 179 

II. — The     Black,     the     Green,     and     the     Red 

ICnighTS 187 

III. — The  Red  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns 201 

IV. — How  Beaumains  won  his  Bride 212 

BOOK  VI. 
TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  THE  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

I. — How  Tristram  was  Knighted 238 

II. — ^La  Belle  Isolde 249 

III. — ^The  Wager  of  Battle 258 

IV. — The  Draught  of  Love 267 

V. — The  Perils  of  True  Love 275 

VI. — The  Madness  of  Sir  Tristram 289 

BOOK  VII. 
HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

I. — Tristram  and  Dinadan 304 

II. — On  the  Road  to  the  Tournament 312 

III. — ^At  the  Castle  of  Maidens 322 

IV. — ^The  Quest  of  the  Ten  Knights 335 

V. — ^The  Knight  with  the  Covered  Shield 345 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


KING   ARTHUR.     VOL.  I. 

PAGE 

FuRNEss  Abbey Frontispiece. 

Statue  of  King  Arthur  at  Innsbrucjk 24 

King  Arthur's  Fair  Love 48 

Merlin  and  Nimue 89 

The  Great  Forest 94 

Nimue 105 

Dream  of  Sir  Lancelot 139 

King  Arthur's  Round  Table,  Winchester  Cathe- 
dral    179 

The  Joyous  Wedding 235 

Sir  Tristram  Harping  to  Isolde 250 

The  Cliffs  above  the  Sea 288 

Tintagil,  King  Arthur's  Castle 302 

Admission  of  Sir  Tristram  to  the  King  of  the 
Round  Table 359 


10  INTRODUCTORY. 

This  is  history  as  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  under- 
stood it,  but  hardly  so  in  the  modern  sense,  and 
Arthur  remains  as  mystical  a  figure  as  Achilles, 
despite  the  efforts  of  various  writers  to  bring  him 
within  the  circle  of  actual  kings.  After  the  Romans 
left  Britain,  two  centuries  passed  of  whose  history 
hardly  a  coherent  shred  remains.  This  was  the 
age  of  Arthur,  one  of  the  last  champions  of  Celtic 
Britain  against  the  inflowing  tide  of  Anglo-Saxon 
invasion.  That  there  was  an  actual  x\rthur  there 
is  some,  but  no  very  positive,  reason  to  believe. 
After  all  the  evidence  has  been  offered,  we  still 
seem  to  have  but  a  shadowy  hero  before  us,  "  a  king 
of  shreds  and  patches,"  whose  history  is  so  pieced 
out  with  conjecture  that  it  is  next  to  impossible  to 
separate  its  facts  from  its  fancies. 

The  Arthur  of  the  legends,  of  the  Welsh  and  Bre- 
ton ballads,  of  the  later  Chansons  de  Oeste,  of 
Malory  and  Tennyson,  has  quite  stepped  out  of  the 
historic  page  and  become  a  hero  without  time  or 
place  in  any  real  world,  a  king  of  the  imagination, 
the  loftiest  figure  in  that  great  out-growth  of  chiv- 
alric  romance  which  formed  the  favorite  fictitious 
literature  of  Europe  during  three  or  four  of  the 
mediaeval  centuries.  Charlemagne,  the  leading 
character  in  the  earlier  romances  of  chivalrv,  was, 
in  the  twelfth  century,  replaced  by  Arthur,  a  milder 
and  more  Christian-like  hero,  whose  adventures, 
with  those  of  his  Knights  of  the  Round  Table, 
delighted  the  tenants  of  court  and  castle  in  that 
marvel -loving  and  uncritical  age.  That  the  stories 
told  of  him  are  all  fiction  cannot  be  declared.  Many 
of  them  may  have  been  founded  on  fact.     But,  like 


INTRODUCTORY.  11 

the  stones  of  a  prehistoric  wall,  their  facts  are  so 
densely  enveloped  by  the  ivy  of  fiction  that  it  is 
impossible  to  delve  them  out. 

The  ballads  and  romances  in  which  the  Iving 
Arthur  of  mediaeval  story  figures  as  the  hero,  would 
scarcely  prove  pleasant  and  profitable  reading  to 
us  now,  however  greatly  they  delighted  our  ances- 
tors. They  are  marked  by  a  coarseness  and  crudity 
which  would  be  but  little  to  our  taste.  Xor  have 
we  anything  of  modem  growth  to  replace  them. 
Milton  entertained  a  purpose  of  making  King 
Arthur  the  hero  of  an  epic  poem,  but  fortunately 
vielded  it  for  the  nobler  task  of  "  Paradise  Lost.'' 
Spenser  gives  this  hero  a  minor  place  in  his  "  Fairie 
Queen."  Dryden  projected  a  King  Arthur  epic, 
but  failed  to  write.it.  Recently  Bulwer  has  given 
us  a  cumbersome  "  King  Arthur,"  which  nobody 
reads;  and  Tennyson  has  handled  the  subject  bril- 
liantly in  his  "Idyls  of  the  King,"  splendid  suc- 
cesses as  poems,  yet  too  infiltrated  with  the  spirit 
of  modernism  to  be  acceptable  as  a  reproduction 
of  the  Arthur  of  romance.  For  a  true  rehabilita- 
tion of  this  hero  of  the  age  of  chivalry  we  must 
go  to  the  "  Morte  Darthur  "  of  Sir  Thomas  Malory, 
a  writer  of  the  fifteenth  century,  who  lived  when 
men  still  wore  armor,  and  so  near  to  the  actual 
age  of  chivalry  as  to  be  in  full  sympathy  with  the 
spirit  of  its  fiction,  and  its  pervading  love  of  adven- 
ture and  belief  in  the  magical. 

Malory  did  a  work  of  high  value  in  editing  the 
confused  mass  of  earlier  fiction,  lopping  off  its  ex- 
cregcences  and  redundancies,  reducing  its  coarse- 
ness of  speech,  and  producing  from  its  many  stories 


12  INTRODUCTORY. 

and  episodes  a  coherent  and  continuous  narrative, 
in  which  the  adventures  of  the  Round  Table  Knights 
are  deftly  interwoven  with  the  record  of  the  birth, 
life,  and  death  of  the  king,  round  whom  as  the 
central  figure  all  these  knightly  champions  revolve. 
Malory  seems  to  have  used  as  the  basis  of  his  work 
perhaps  one,  perhaps  several,  old  French  prose 
romances,  and  possibly  also  material  derived  from 
Welsh  and  English  ballads.  Such  material  in  his 
day  was  doubtless  abundant.  Geoffrey  had  drawn 
much  of  his  legendary  history  from  the  ancient 
Welsh  ballads.  The  mass  of  romantic  fiction  which 
he  called  history  became  highly  popular,  first  in 
Brittany,  and  then  in  France,  the  Trouveres  making 
Arthur,  Lancelot,  Tristram,  Percival,  and  others  of 
the  knightly  circle  the  heroes  of  involved  romances, 
in  which  a  multitude  of  new  incidents  were  in- 
vented. The  Minnesingers  of  Germany  took  up  the 
same  fruitful  theme,  producing  a  "  Parzivale,^^  a 
"Tristan  and  Isolt,^^  and  other  heroic  romances. 
From  all  this  mass  of  material,  Malory  wrought  his 
"  Morte  Darthur,^'  as  Homer  wrought  his  *^  Iliad  " 
from  the  preceding  warlike  ballads,  and  the  un- 
known compiler  of  the  "  Nibelungenlied  "  wrought 
his  poem  from  similar  ancient  sources. 
,  Malory  was  not  solely  an  editor.  He  was  in  a 
large  sense  a  creator.  It  was  coarse  and  crude 
material  with  which  he  had  to  deal,  but  in  his  hands 
its  rude  prose  gained  a  degree  of  poetic  fervor.  The 
legends  which  he  preserves  he  has  in  many  cases 
transmuted  from  base  into  precious  coin.  There 
is  repulsive  matter  in  the  old  romances,  which-  he 
freely  cuts  out.     To  their  somewhat  wooden  heroes 


INTRODUCTORY.  13 

he  gives  life  and  character,  so  that  in  Lancelot, 
Gawaine,  Dinadan,  Kay,  and  others  we  have  to 
deal  with  distinct  personalities,  not  with  the  non- 
individualized  hard-hitters  of  the  romances.  And 
to  the  whole  story  he  gives  an  epic  completeness 
which  it  lacked  before.  In  the  early  days  of 
Arthur's  reign  Merlin  warns  him  that  fate  has  already 
woven  its  net  about  him  and  that  the  sins  of  him- 
self  and  his  queen  will  in  the  end  bring  his  reign 
to  a  violent  termination,  and  break  up  that  grand 
fellowship  of  the  Round  Table  which  has  made  Brit- 
ain and  its  king  illustrious.  This  epic  character 
of  Malory's  work  is  pointed  out  in  the  article  "  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth  "  in  the  "  Encyclopaedia  Britan- 
nica,^'  whose  writer  says  that  the  Arthurian  legends 
"were  converted  into  a  magnificent  prose  poem  by 
Sir  Thomas  Malory  in  1461.  Malory's  Morte  Bar- 
thur  is  as  truly  the  epic  of  the  English  mind  as 
the  Iliad  is  the  epic  of  the  Greek  mind.'' 

Yet  the  "  Morte  Darthur,"  if  epic  in  plan  and 
treatment,  is  bv  no  means  free  from  the  defects  of 
primitive  literature.  It  was  written  before  the  age 
of  criticism,  and  confusion  reigns  supreme  in  many 
of  its  pages, — ^a  confusion  which  a  very  little  criti- 
cal supervision  might  have  removed.  As  an  in- 
stance, we  find  that  Galahad,  two  years  after  his 
birth,  is  made  a  knight,  being  then  fifteen  years  old. 
In  like  manner  the  "seat  perilous"  at  the  Round 
Table  is  magically  reserved  for  Galahad,  the  author 
evidently  forgetting  that  he  had  already  given  it  to 
Percivale.  King  Mark's  murder  of  his  brother 
Baldwin  is  revenged  by  Baldwin's  grandson,  thirty 
or  forty  years  afterward,  though  there  is  nothing 


14  INTRODUCTORY. 

to  show  that  the  characters  had  grown  a  year  older 
in  the  interval.  Here  a  knight  finds  one  antagonist 
quite  sufficient  for  one  man;  there  he  does  not 
hesitate  to  attack  fifty  at  once ;  here  a  slight  wound 
disables  him;  there  a  dozen  deep  wounds  are  fully 
healed  by  a  nighfs  rest.  Many  similar  instances 
might  be  given,  but  these  will  suffice.  The  dis- 
crepancies here  indicated  were  perhaps  due  to  the 
employment  of  diverse  legends,  without  care  to 
bring  them  into  accordance,  but  they  lay  the  work 
open  to  adverse  criticism. 

This  lack  of  critical  accuracy  may  have  been  a 
necessary  accompaniment  of  the  credulous  frame 
of  mind  that  could  render  such  a  work  possible.  It 
needed  an  artlessness  of  mental  make-up,  a  full 
capacity  for  acceptance  of  the  marvellous,  a  simple- 
minded  faith  in  chivalry  and  its  doings,  which  could 
scarcely  exist  in  common  with  the  critical  temj)era- 
ment.  In  truth,  the  flavor  of  an  age  of  credulity 
and  simplicity  of  thought  everywhere  permeates 
this  quaint  old  work,  than  which  nothing  more  art- 
less, simple,  and  unique  exists  in  literature,  and 
nothing  with  a  higher  value  as  a  presentation  of  the 
taste  in  fiction  of  our  mediaeval  predecessors. 

Yet  the  ^^  Morte  Darthur  "  is  not  easy  or  attrac- 
tive reading,  to  other  than  special  students  of  litera- 
ture. Aside  from  its  confusion  of  events  and 
arrangement,  it  tells  the  story  of  chivalry  with  a 
monotonous  lack  of  inflection  that  is  apt  to  grow 
wearisome,  and  in  a  largely  obsolete  style  and  dialect 
with  whose  difficulties  readers  in  general  may  not 
care  to  grapple.  Its  pages  present  an  endless  suc- 
cession of  single  combats  with  spear  and  sword. 


INTRODUCTORY.  15 

whose  details  are  repeated  with  wearisome  iteration. 
Knights  fight  furiously  for  hours  together,  till  they 
are  carved  with  deep  wounds,  and  the  ground  crim- 
soned with  gore.  Sometimes  they  are  so  inconsid- 
erate as  to  die,  sometimes  so  weak  as  to  seek  a 
leech,  but  as  often  they  mount  and  ride  away  in 
philosophical  disregard  of  their  wounds,  and  come 
up  fresh  for  as  fierce  a  fight  the  next  day. 

As  for  a  background  of  scenery  and  architecture, 
it  scarcely  exists.  Deep  interest  in  man  and  woman 
seems  to  have  shut  out  all  scenic  accessories  from 
the  mind  of  the  good  old  knight.  It  is  always  but 
a  step  from  the  castle  to  the  forest,  into  which  the 
knights-errant  plunge,  and  where  most  of  their 
adventures  take  place;  and  the  favorite  resting- 
and  jousting-place  is  by  the  side  of  forest  springs — 
or  wells,  as  in  the  text.  We  have  mention  abun- 
dant of  fair  castles,  fair  valleys,  fair  meadows,  and 
the  like,  the  adjective  "  fair ''  going  far  to  serve 
all  needs  of  description.  But  in  his  human  char- 
acters, with  their  loves  and  hates,  jousts  and  battles, 
bewitchments  and  bewilderments,  the  author  takes 
deep  interest,  and  follows  the  episodical  stories 
which  are  woven  into  the  plot  with  a  somewhat 
too  satisfying  fulness.  In  evidence  of  the  dramatic 
character  of  many  of  these  episodes  we  need  but 
refer  to  the  ^^  Idyls  of  the  King,^'  whose  various 
romantic  and  tragic  narratives  are  all  derived  from 
this  quaint  ^^  old  master  ^'  of  fictitious  literature. 

With  all  its  faults  of  style  and  method,  the 
"  Morte  Darthur  ^'  is  a  very  live  book.  It  never 
stops  to  moralize  or  philosophize,  but  keeps  strictly 
to  its  business  of  tale-telling,  bringing  up  before 


16  INTRODUCTORY. 

the  reader  a  group  of  real  men  and  women,  not  a 
series  of  lay-figures  on  a  background  of  romance, 
as  in  his  originals. 

Kay  with  his  satirical  tongue,  Dinadan  with  his 
love  of  fun,  Tristram  loving  and  noble,  Lancelot 
bold  and  chivalrous,  Gawaine  treacherous  and  im- 
placable, Arthur  kingly  but  adventurous,  Mark 
cowardly  and  base-hearted,  Guenever  jealous  but 
queenly,  Isolde  tender  and  faithful,  and  a  host  of 
other  clearly  individualized  knights  and  ladies  move 
in  rapid  succession  through  the  pages  of  the 
romance,  giving  it,  with  its  manners  of  a  remote 
age,  a  vital  interest  that  appeals  to  modern  tastes. 

In  attempting  to  adapt  this  old  masterpiece  to 
the  readers  of  our  own  day,  we  have  no  purpose 
to  seek  to  paraphrase  or  improve  on  Malory.  To 
remove  the  antique  flavor  would  be  to  destroy  the 
spirit  of  the  work.  We  shall  leave  it  as  we  find 
it,  other  than  to  reduce  its  obsolete  phraseology 
and  crudities  of  style  to  modem  English,  abridge 
the  narrative  where  it  is  wearisomely  extended, 
omit  repetitions  and  uninteresting  incidents,  reduce 
its  confusion  of  arrangement,  attempt  a  more  artis- 
tic division  into  books  and  chapters,  and  by  other 
arts  of  editorial  revision  seek  to  make  it  easier  read- 
ing, while  preserving  as  fully  as  possible  those 
unique  characteristics  which  have  long  made  it 
delightful  to  lovers  of  old  literature. 

The  task  here  undertaken  is  no  light  one,  nor  is 
success  in  it  assured.  Malory  has  an  individuality 
of  his  own  which  gives  a  peculiar  charm  to  his 
work,  and  to  retain  this  in  a  modernized  version 
is  the  purpose  with  which  we  set  out  and  which 


INTRODUCTORY.  17 

we  hope  to  accomplish.  The  world  of  to-day  is  full 
of  fiction,  endless  transcripts  of  modem  life  served 
up  in  a  great  variety  of  palatable  forms.  Our 
castle-living  forefathers  were  not  so  abundantly 
favored.  They  had  no  books, — ^and  could  not  have 
read  them  if  they  had, — but  the  wandering  minstrel 
took  with  them  the  place  of  the  modern  volume, 
bearing  from  castle  to  court,  and  court  to  castle, 
his  budget  of  romances  of  magic  and  chivalry,  and 
delighting  the  hard-hitting  knights  and  barons  of 
that  day  with  stirring  ballads  and  warlike  tales 
to  which  their  souls  rose  in  passionate  response. 

In  the  "  Morte  Darthur  ^'  is  preserved  to  us  the 
pith  of  the  best  of  those  old  romances,  brought  into 
a  continuous  narrative  by  one  who  lived  when  chiv- 
alry yet  retained  some  of  its  vital  hold  on  the  minds 
of  men,  and  who,  being  a  knight  himself,  could 
enter  with  heartfelt  sympathy  into  the  deeds  of  the 
knights  of  an  earlier  age.  Certainly  many  of  the 
readers  of  modern  fiction  will  find  a  pleasure  in 
turning  aside  awhile  from  the  hot-pressed  thought 
of  the  nineteenth-century  novel  to  this  fresh  and 
breezy  outcrop  from  the  fiction  of  an  earlier  day; 
with  the  double  purpose  of  learning  on  what  food 
the  minds  of  our  ancestors  were  fed,  and  of  gaining 
a  breath  of  wild  perfume  from  the  far-off  field  of 
the  romance  of  chivalry.  That  the  story  of  Arthur 
and  his  Knights  can  arouse  in  modem  readers  the 
intense  interest  with  which  it  was  received  by 
mediaeval  auditors  is  not  to  be  expected.  We  are 
too  far  removed  in  time  and  manners  from  the  age 
of  knight-errantry  to  enter  deeply  into  sympathy 
"^with  its  imfamiliar  ways.     Yet  a  milder  interest 


18 


INTRODUCTORY. 


may  still  be  awakened  in  what  gave  our  predecessors 
such  enthusiastic  delight,  and  some  at  least  may 
turn  with  pleasure  from  the  most  philosophic  of 
modern  novels  to  wander  awhile  through  this  primi- 
tive domain  of  thought. 

To  such  we  offer  this  work,  which  we  have  simply 
sought  to  make  easy  reading,  with  little  further 
liberty  with  Malory's  quaint  prose  than  to  put  it 
into  a  modern  dress,  and  with  the  hope  that  no  such 
complete  divorce  exists  between  the  world  of  the 
present  and  that  of  the  past  as  to  render  the  exploits 
of  King  Arthur  and  his  Round  Table  Knights  dull, 
wearisome,  and  profitless  reading,  void  of  the  human 
interest  which  they  once  possessed  in  such  large  and 
satisfying  measure. 


KING  ARTHUR 


A2iD  THE 


KNIGHTS  OF  THE  ROUND  TABLE. 


BOOK  I. 

HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE   MAGIC   SWORD. 

Once  upon  a  time,  in  that  far-off  and  famous 
era  of  chivalry  and  knight-errantry  when  wander- 
ing knights  sought  adventures  far  and  wide  through- 
out the  land,  and  no  damsel  in  distress  failed  to 
enlist  a  valiant  champion  in  her  cause,  there  reigned 
over  England's  broad,  realm  a  noble  monarch,  King 
Arthur  by  name,  the  flower  of  chivalry,  and  the 
founder  of  the  world-renowned  order  of  Knights 
of  the  Round  Table.  It  is  the  story  of  this  far- 
famed  monarch,  and  of  the  wonderful  and  valorous 
deeds  of  his  Knights,  that  we  here  propose  to  tell, 
as  preserved  in  the  ancient  legends  of  the  land, 
and  set  forth  at  length  in  the  chronicles  of  the  days 
of  chivalry. 

Before  the  days  of  Arthur  the  King,  there  reigned 
over  all  England  Uther  Pendragon,  a  monarch  of 

19 


20  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

might  and  renown.  He  died  at  length  in  years 
and  honor,  and  after  his  death  anarchy  long  pre- 
vailed in  the  land,  for  no  son  of  his  appeared  to 
claim  the  throne,  and  many  of  the  lords  who  were 
high  in  rank  and  strong  in  men  sought  to  win  it 
by  force  of  arms,  while  everywhere  lawlessness  and 
wrong-doing  made  life  a  burden  and  wealth  a  deceit. 

But  by  good  fortune  there  still  survived  the 
famous  magician  Merlin,  the  master  of  all  mys- 
teries, who  long  had  been  the  stay  of  Uther^s  throne, 
and  in  whose  hands  lay  the  destiny  of  the  realm. 
For  after  years  of  anarchy,  and  when  men  had 
almost  lost  hope  of  right  and  justice.  Merlin,  fore- 
seeing that  the  time  for  a  change  was  at  hand,  went 
to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  bade  him  sum- 
mon to  London  by  Christmas  day  all  the  lords 
of  the  realm  and  the  gentlemen  of  arms,  for  on  that 
day  a  miracle  would  be  shown  by  which  would  be 
decided  who  should  be  ruler  of  the  kingless  realm. 

The  summons  was  issued,  and  by  Christmas-tide 
many  lords  and  knights,  the  flower  of  England^s 
chivalry,  had  gathered  in  London,  most  of  them 
full  of  ambition  and  many  of  them  buoyed  up  by 
hope.  In  the  greatest  church  of  that  city  prayers 
went  up  night  and  day,  all  who  had  been  guilty 
of  wrong-doing  seeking  to  clear  their  souls  of  sin; 
for  all  believed  that  only  through  God's  grace  could 
any  man  come  to  dominion  in  the  realm,  and  those 
who  aspired  to  the  throne  ardently  sought  to  make 
their  peace  with  God. 

On  Christmas  day,  after  the  hour  of  matins  and 

the  first  mass,  came  the  miracle  which  Merlin  had 

Bteedicted;    for  there  suddenly  appeared  before  the 


THE  MAGIC  SWORD.  21 

high  altar  in  the  church-yard  a  great  four-square 
block  of  stone,  of  the  texture  of  marble,  upon  which 
stood  an  anvil  of  steel  a  foot  in  height ;  and  through 
the  anvil  and  deep  into  the  stone  was  thrust  a 
gleaming  sword,  upon  which,  in  letters  of  gold, 
ran  these  words,  "Whoso  pulleth  this  sword  out  of 
this  stone  is  of  right  born  king  of  all  England/^ 

Whether  Merlin  performed  this  strange  thing 
by  magic,  or  it  was  a  miracle  of  God's  will,  the 
chronicles  say  not,  but  all  who  saw  it  deeply  mar- 
velled, and  word  of  it  was  brought  to  the  archbishop 
in  the  church. 

"  Let  no  man  stir,^'  he  enjoined.  "  This  is  God's 
doing,  and  must  be  dealt  with  gravely  and  solemnly. 
I  command  that  all  stay  within  the  church  and  pray 
unto  God  until  the  high  mass  be  done.  Till- then 
let  no  hand  touch  the  sword.'^ 

And  so  the  service  went  on  until  its  end;  but 
after  it  was  done  the  audience  hastened  to  behold 
the  miracle,  and  some  of  the  higher  lords,  who 
were  ambitious  for  the  throne,  laid  eager  hold  upon 
the  sword  and  sought  with  all  their  strength  to 
draw  it.  Yet  all  in  vain  they  tugged ;  the  mightiest 
among  them  could  not  stir  the  deep-thrust  blade. 

"The  man  is  not  here,''  said  the  archbishop, 
"  who  shall  draw  that  sword ;  but  God,  in  His  own 
good  season,  will  make  him  known.  This,  then,  is 
my  counsel:  let  us  set  ten  knights,  men  of  fame 
and  honor,  to  guard  the  sword,  and  let  every  man 
that  has  faith  in  his  good  fortune  seek  to  draw  it. 
He  who  is  the  destined  monarch  of  England  will 
in  time  appear/* 

New  Year's  day  came,  and  no  man  yet  had  drawn 


22  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

the  Bword,  though  many  had  adventured.  For 
that  day  the  barons  had  ordered  that  a  stately  tour- 
nament should  be  held,  in  which  all  knights  who 
desired  to  break  a  lance  for  God  and  their  ladies 
might  take  part.  This  was  greeted  with  high 
acclaim,  and  after  the  services  of  the  day  had  ended 
the  barons  and  knights  together  rode  to  the  lists, 
while  multitudes  of  the  citizens  of  London  crowded 
thither  to  witness  the  knightly  sports.  Among 
those  who  rode  were  Sir  Hector,  a  noble  lord,  who 
held  domains  in  England  and  Wales,  and  with  him 
his  son  Sir  Kay,  a  new-made  knight,  and  his 
younger  son  Arthur,  a  youth  still  too  young  for 
knighthood. 

As  they  rode  together  to  the  lists,  Kay  discovered 
that  he  had  forgotten  his  sword,  having  left  it 
behind  at  his  father^s  lodging.  He  begged  young 
Arthur  to  ride  back  for  it. 

"  Trust  me  to  bring  it,"  replied  Arthur,  readily, 
and  turning  his  horse  he  rode  briskly  back  to  his 
father^s  lodging  in  the  city.  On  reaching  the  house, 
however,  he  found  it  fast  locked,  all  its  inmates 
having  gone  to  the  tournament.  The  young  man 
stood  a  moment  in  anger  and  indecision. 

"  My  brother  Kay  shall  not  be  without  a  sword," 
he  said.  "  I  remember  seeing  in  the  church-yard 
a  handsome  blade  thrust  into  a  stone,  and  seeming 
to  want  an  owner.  I  shall  ride  thither  and  get 
that  sword.     It  will  serve  Kay^s  turn." 

He  accordingly  turned  his  horse  and  rode  back 
in  all  haste.  On  reaching  the  church-yard  he  found 
no  knights  there,  all  those  who  had  been  placed  on 
guard  having  gone  to  the  jousting,  exchanging  duty 


THE  MAGIC  SWORD.  23 

for  sport.  Dismounting  and  tying  his  horse,  he 
entered  th^.  tent  which  had  been  erected  over  the 
stone.  There  stood  the  magic  sword,  its  jewelled 
hilt  and  half  the  shining  blade  revealed.  Heedless 
of  the  inscription  on  the  polished  steel,  and  ignorant 
of  its  lofty  promise, — for  the  miracle  had  been  kept 
secret  by  the  knights, — ^young  Arthur  seized  the 
weapon  strongly  by  the  hilt  and  gave  the  magic 
sword  a  vigorous  pull.  Then  a  wondrous  thing 
happened,  which  it  was  a  pity  there  were  none  to 
see;  for  the  blade  came  easily  out  of  stone  and 
steel,  as  though  they  were  yielding  clay,  and  lay 
naked  in  his  hand.  Not  knowing  the  might  and 
meaning  of  what  he  had  done,  and  thinking  of 
naught  but  to  keep  his  word,  the  young  man 
mounted  his  horse  and  rode  to  the  field,  where  he 
delivered  the  sword  to  his  brother  Sir  Kay. 

"  I  have  brought  your  sword,"  he  said. 

The  young  knight  started  with  surprise  on  behold- 
ing the  blade,  and  gazed  on  it  with  wonder  and 
trepidation.  It  was  not  his,  he  knew,  and  he  recog- 
nized it  at  sight  for  the  magic  blade.  But  ambition 
quickly  banished  the  wonder  from  his  heart,  and  he 
rode  hastily  to  his  father.  Sir  Hector,  exclaiming, — 

"  Behold !  Here  is  the  sword  of  the  stone !  I  that 
bear  it  am  the  destined  king  of  England's  realm.'' 

Sir  Hector  looked  at  him  in  doubt,  and  beheld 
the  blade  he  bore  with  deep  surprise. 

^^When  and  how  did  you  obtain  it?"  he  de- 
manded. "  Back  to  the  church !  Come  with  us, 
Arthur.     Here  is  a  mystery  that  must  be  explained/* 

Reaching  the  church,  he  made  Kay  swear  upon 
the  book  how  he  came  by  that  weapon,  for  greatly 
he  doubted. 


I 


24  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

"I  have  not  said  I  drew  it/'  Kay  replied,  sul- 
lenly. ^^In  truth,  it  was  not  achieved  by  me. 
Arthur  brought  me  the  sword.^' 

"  Arthur !  '^  cried  the  lord.  "  Arthur  brought 
it !     How  got  you  it,  boy  ?  " 

"I  pulled  it  from  the  stone/*  replied  the  youth. 
^^Kay  sent  me  home  for  his  sword,  but  the  house 
was  empty  and  locked;  and  as  I  did  not  wish  my 
brother  to  be  without  a  weapon,  I  rode  hither  and 
pulled  this  blade  out  of  the  stone.  Was  there  aught 
strange  in  that?     It  came  out  easily  enough.*' 

"  Were  there  no  knights  about  it  ?  "  . 

"  None,  sir.** 

"  Then  the  truth  is  plain.  God's  will  has  been 
revealed.     You  are  the  destined  king  of  England.*' 

"  I  ?  "  cried  Arthur,  in  surprise.  ^^  Wherefore 
I?" 

"  God  has  willed  it  so,"  repeated  the  baron. 
^^  But  I  must  first  learn  for  myself  if  you  have  truly 
drawn  the  sword.     Can  you  put  it  back  again  ?  " 

"I  can  try/'  said  Arthur,  and  with  an  easy 
thrust  he  sunk  the  blade  deeply  into  the  stone. 

Then  Sir  Hector  and  Kay  pulled  at  the  hilt  with 
all  their  strength,  but  failed  to  move  the  weapon. 

"  Now  you  shall  try/'  they  said  to  Arthur. 

Thereupon  the  youth  seized  the  hilt,  and  with 
a  light  effort  the  magic  sword  came  out  naked  in 
his  hand. 

"  You  are  our  king ! "  cried  Sir  Hector,  kneeling 
on  the  earth,  and  Kay  beside  him. 

"My  dear  father  and  brother/'  cried  Arthur  in 
surprise  and  distress,  "  why  kneel  you  to  me  ?  Rise, 
I  pray ;  it  pains  me  deeply  to  see  you  thus." 


STATUE  OF  KINS  ARTHUR  A 


THE  MAGIC  SWORD.  25 

''I  am  not  your  father  nor  of  your  kindred/^ 
rejoined  the  baron.  "  I  must  now  reveal  the  secret 
I  long  have  kept.  You  were  brought  to  me  in 
infancy,  and  I  and  my  wife  have  fostered  you  as 
our  own.  But  you  are  no  son  of  mine.  Who  you 
truly  are  I  cannot  say;  that  only  Merlin  the  magi- 
cian knows.  But  well  I  feel  assured  you  are  of 
nobler  blood  than  I  can  boast.^' 

These  words  filled  Arthur  with  heartfelt  pain. 
He  had  long  revered  the  worthy  knight  as  his  father, 
and  it  grieved  him  deeply  to  leam  that  those  whom 
he  had  so  warmly  loved  were  not  of  kin  to  him. 

^^  Sir,^'  said  Hector,  "  will  you  be  my  good  and 
gracious  lord  when  you  are  king  ?  " 

"  You,  my  father,  and  your  good  lady,  my 
mother, — to  whom  else  in  all  the  world  am  I  so 
beholden ?^^  rejoined  Arthur,  warmly.  "God  for- 
bid that  I  should  fail  you  in  whatever  you  may 
desire,  if  by  His  will  and  grace  I  shall  be  made 
king.'^ 

"  This  only  I  ask  of  you,^'  said  the  baron :  "  that 
you  make  Kay,  my  son  and  your  foster-brother,  the 
seneschal  of  all  your  lands.^' 

"By  the  faith  of  my  body,  I  promise,^'  said 
Arthur.  "No  man  but  he  shall  have  that  office 
while  he  and  I  live." 

These  words  said.  Sir  Hector  went  to  the  arch- 
bishop and  told  him,  much  to  his  surprise,  of  the 
marvel  that  had  been  performed.  By  the  advice 
of  the  prelate  it  was  kept  secret  until  Twelfth  Day, 
when  the  barons  came  again,  and  another  effort  was 
made  to  draw  the  sword. 

After  all  had  tried  and  failed,  Arthur  was  brought 


26  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

forward,  and  while  many  sneered  at  his  youth  and 
asked  why  a  boy  had  been  brought  thither,  he  seized 
the  hilt  and  lightly  drew  the  blade  from  the  stone. 
Then  all  stood  aghast  in  wonder,  marvelling  greatly 
to  see  a  youth  perform  the  feat  which  the  strongest 
knights  in  the  kingdom  had  attempted  in  vain; 
but  many  beheld  it  with  bitter  anger  and  hostile 
doubt. 

"Who  is  this  boy?"  they  cried.  "What  royal 
blood  can  he  claim?  Shall  we  and  the  realm  of 
England  be  shamed  by  being  governed  by  a  base- 
born  churl  ?     There  is  fraud  or  magic  in  this.'^ 

So  high  ran  the  tide  of  adverse  feeling  that  the 
archbishop  finally  decided  that  another  trial  should 
be  had  at  Candlemas,  ten  knights  meanwhile  closely 
guarding  the  stone.  And  when  Candlemas  day 
arrived  there  came  many  more  great  lords,  each 
eager  for  the  throne;  but,  as  before,  of  all  there 
none  but  Arthur  could  draw  the  magic  sword. 

Again  was  there  envy  and  hostility,  and  another 
trial  was  loudly  demanded,  the  time  being  fixed  for 
Easter.  This  ended  as  before,  and  at  the  demand 
of  the  angry  lords  a  final  trial  was  arranged  for 
the  feast  of  Pentecost.  The  archbishop  now,  at 
Merlin^s  suggestion,  surrounded  Arthur  with  a  body- 
guard of  tried  warriors,  some  of  whom  had  been 
TJther  Pendragon's  best  and  worthiest  knights;  for 
it  was  feared  that  some  of  his  enemies  might  seek 
to  do  him  harm.  They  were  bidden  to  keep  watch 
over  him  day  and  night  till  the  season  of  Pente- 
cost, for  there  were  lords  that  would  have  slain  him 
had  they  dared. 

At  the  feast  of  Pentecost  lords  and  knights  gath- 


THE  MAGIC  SWORD.  27 

ered  again,  but  in  vain  they  all  essayed  to  draw  the 
magic  sword.  Only  to  the  hand  of  Arthur  would 
it  yield,  and  he  pulled  it  lightly  from  the  stone  and 
steel  in  the  presence  of  all  the  lords  and  commons. 
Then  cried  the  commons  in  loud  acclaim, — 

"  Arthur  shall  be  our  king !  We  will  have  none 
to  reign  over  us  but  him !  Let  there  be  no  more 
delay,  God  has  willed  that  he  shall  be  England^s 
king,  and  he  that  holdeth  out  longer  against  the 
will  of  God  that  man  shall  we  slay.^' 

Then  rich  and  poor  alike  kneeled  before  Arthur, 
hailed  him  as  king,  and  craved  his  pardon  for  their 
long  delay.  He  forgave  them  freely,  and  taking 
the  sword  between  his  hands,  laid  it  upon  the  altar 
before  the  archbishop.  This  done,  he  was  made  a 
knight  by  the  worthiest  warrior  there,  and  thus 
taken  into  that  noble  fellowship  of  chivalry  which 
he  was  destined  by  his  valor  and  virtue  to  so  richly 
adorn. 

Shortly  afterward  Arthur  was  crowned  king, 
with  great  pomp  and  ceremony,  before  a  noble 
assemblage  of  the  lords  and  ladies  of  the  realm,  tak- 
ing solemn  oath  at  the  coronation  to  be  true  king  to 
lords  and  commons,  and  to  deal  justice  to  all  while 
he  should  live.  ' 

Justice,  indeed,  was  greatly  and  urgently  de- 
manded, for  many  wrongs  had  been  done  since  the 
death  of  King  IJther,  and  numerous  complaints 
were  laid  before  the  throne.  All  these  evils  Arthur 
redressed,  forcing  those  who  had  wrongfully  taken 
the  lands  of  others  to  return  them,  and  demanding 
that  all  should  submit  to  the  laws  of  the  realm.  In 
compliance  with  his  promise.  Sir  Kay  was  made 


28  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

seneschal  of  England,  while  other  knights  were 
appointed  to  the  remaining  high  offices  of  the  realm, 
and  all  the  needs  of  the  kingdom  duly  provided  for. 
Thus  the  famous  reign  of  King  Arthur  auspiciously 
began,  with  God^s  and  man's  blessing  upon  its  early 
days. 


CHAPTER  II. 
Arthur's  wars  and  the  mystery  of  his  birth. 

After  Arthur  was  crowned  king  he  removed 
into  Wales,  where  he  gave  orders  that  a  great  feast 
should  be  held  on  the  coming  day  of  Pentecost, 
at  the  city  of  Carlion.  On  the  day  appointed  for 
the  feast  there  appeared  before  Carlion  the  Kings 
of  Lothian  and  Orkney,  Gore,  Garloth,  Carados, 
and  Scotland,  each  with  a  large  following  of  knights. 
Their  coming  greatly  pleased  King  Arthur,  who 
believed  that  they  desired  to  do  honor  to  his  reign, 
and  he  sent  presents  of  great  value  to  them  and  to 
their  knights. 

These  they  disdainfully  refused,  sending  back  a 
hostile  challenge  by  the  messenger,  and  saying  that 
they  had  not  come  to  receive  gifts  from  a  beardless 
boy,  of  ignoble  blood,  but  to  present  him  gifts  with 
hard  swords  between  neck  and  shoulder.  It  was  a 
shame,  they  said,  to  see  such  a  boy  at  the  head  of 
so  noble  a  realm,  and  this  wrong  should  be  redressed 
at  their  hands. 

On  receiving  this  defiant  message,  Arthur  threw 


abthur's  wabs  and  mystery  of  his  birth.  29 

himself,  with  five  hundred  good  men,  into  a  strong 
tower  near  Carlion,  for  he  was  ill  prepared  for 
attack.  There  he  was  closely  besieged  by  his  foes, 
but  the  castle  was  well  victualled,  and  held  out 
stoutly  against  its  assailants. 

During  the  siege  Merlin  appeared  suddenly 
among  the  kings,  and  told  them  privately  who 
Arthur  really  was,  assuring  them  that  he  was  of 
nobler  blood  than  themselves,  and  was  destined 
long  to  remain  king  of  England,  and  to  reduce 
Scotland,  Ireland,  and  Wales  to  his  sway.  Some 
of  the  hostile  monarchs  believed  the  magician's 
story,  but  others  doubted  it.  King  Lot  of  Orkney 
laughing  him  to  scorn,  while  some  among  them 
called  him  a  prating  wizard. 

But  it  was  agreed  that  they  should  hold  a  confer- 
ence with  Arthur,  they  promising  if  he  came  out 
to  them  to  place  no  hindrance  to  his  safe  return. 
Merlin  then  sought  the  king  and  advised  him  to 
accept  the  conference,  telling  him  that  he  had  noth- 
ing to  fear.  Thereupon  Arthur  armed  himself,  and 
taking  with  him  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and 
several  noble  knights,  went  out  boldly  to  meet  his 
foes. 

The  conference  was  an  angry  and  bitter  one,  the 
kings  speaking  strongly,  and  Arthur  answering 
them  with  stout  words  of  defiance,  in  which  he 
told  them  plainly  that  if  he  lived  he  would  make 
them  bow  to  his  throne.  In  the  end  they  parted  in 
wrath,  the  kings  returning  to  their  camp  and  Arthur 
to  the  tower. 

"What  do  you  propose  to  do?"  said  Merlin  to 
the  kings.     "  If  you  take  a  wise  man's  advice  you 


30  HOW   ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 


will  withdraw,  for  I  tell  you  that  you  shall  not 
prevail  here,,  were  you  ten  times  as  many." 

"  We  are  not  the  men  to  be  advised  by  a  dream- 
reader,"  answered  King  Lot.  "  If  you  are  the  wise 
man  you  say,  you  will  take  yourself  away."  At 
this  reply  Merlin  magically  vanished  from  among 
them,  and  immediately  appeared  to  King  Arthur  in 
the  tower,  bidding  him  boldly  to  sally  forth  and 
attack  his  enemies,  and  trust  to  fortune  and  valor 
for  success.  Meanwhile  three  hundred  of  the  best 
knights  of  the  kings  had  deserted  their  ranks  and 
come  to  join  him,  much  to  his  comfort,  for  he  had 
been  greatly  outnumbered. 

"  Sir,"  said  Merlin,  "  fight  not  with  the  sword 
that  you  had  by  miracle,  till  you  see  things  go  to 
the  worst;  then  draw  it  out  and  strike  shrewdly 
for  your  throne." 

These  words  said,  Arthur  sallied  from  the  tower 
at  the  head  of  all  his  knights,  and  fell  fiercely  on 
the  besiegers  in  their  camp.  All  went  down  before 
his  bold  assault,  the  hosts  of  the  hostile  kings 
retreating  in  dismay.  Great  deeds  were  done  that 
day.  Sir  Kay  and  other  knights  slaying  all  before 
them,  while  Arthur  laid  on  nobly,  and  did  such 
marvellous  feats  of  arms  that  all  who  saw  him 
wondered  greatly,  for  until  now  he  had  been  an 
untried  youth.  While  the  combat  thus  went  on  in 
Arthur^s  favor  in  front.  King  Lot  and  others  of  the 
kings  made  a  detour  and  set  fiercely  upon  his  force 
from  the  rear,  causing  momentary  dismay  in  his 
ranks.  But  Arthur  wheeled  alertlv  with  his 
knights,  and  smote  vigorously  to  right  and  left, 
keeping  always  in  the  foremost  press,  till  his  horse 


Arthur's  wars  and  mystery  of  his  birth.  31 

was  slain  beneath  him,  and  he  hurled  to  the  ground. 

King  Lot  took  instant  advantage  of  this,  and  with 
a  mighty  blow  prostrated  the  unhorsed  king.  But 
his  knights  hastily  surrounded  him,  drove  back  his 
crowding  foes,  and  set  him  on  horseback  again. 
And  now  King  Arthur  drew  the  magic  sword,  and 
as  he  waved  it  in  the  air  there  flashed  from  it  a 
gleaming  lustre  that  blinded  the  eyes  of  his  enemies. 
Back  they  went  before  him,  many  of  them  falling 
under  his  mighty  blows,  while  his  valiant  knights 
followed  hotly  in  the  track  of  the  flaming  sword, 
and  the  enemy  fled  in  panic  fear. 

Then  the  people  of  Carlion,  seeing  the  enemy 
in  retreat,  came  out  with  clubs  and  staves,  and 
fell  upon  the  defeated  host,  killing  numbers  of  the 
dismounted  knights;  while  the  hostile  kings,  with 
such  of  their  followers  as  remained  alive,  fled  in 
all  haste  from  the  disastrous  field,  leaving  the  vic- 
tory to  Arthur  and  his  knights. 

Thus  ended  in  victory  the  first  battle  of  Arthur^s 
famous  reign.  It  was  but  the  prelude  to  a  greater 
one,  the  mighty  deeds  of  which  the  chroniclers  tell 
at  great  length,  but  of  which  we  shall  give  but  brief 
record.  It  was  predicted  by  Merlin,  who  told  the 
king  that  he  should  have  to  fight  far  more  strongly 
for  his  crown,  that  the  defeated  kings  would  get 
others  to  join  them,  and  would  ere  long  proceed 
against  him  with  a  mighty  force. 

"  I  warn  you,"  he  said  to  the  king  and  his  coun- 
cil, "that  your  enemies  are  very  strong,  for  they 
have  entered  into  alliance  with  four  other  kings 
and  a  mighty  duke,  and  unless  our  king  obtain 
powerful  allies  he  shall  be  overcome  and  slain." 


32  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

"  What  then  shall  we  do  ?  "  asked  the  barons. 

"  I  shall  tell  you,"  said  Merlin.  "  There  are  two 
brethren  beyond  the  sea,  both  kings,  and  marvel- 
lously valiant  men.  One  of  these  is  King  Ban  of 
Benwick,  and  the  other  King  Bors  of  Gaul.  These 
monarchs  are  at  war  with  a  mighty  warrior.  King 
Claudas.  My  counsel  then  is,  that  our  king  ask 
the  aid  of  these  monarchs  in  his  wars,  and  engage 
in  return  to  help  them  in  their  war  with  their  foe." 

"It  is  well  counselled,"  said  the  king  and  his 
barons. 

Accordingly  two  knights  with  letters  were  sent 
across  the  seas,  and  after  various  adventures  reached 
the  camp  of  Kings  Ban  and  Bors.  These  valiant 
monarchs  gladly  responded  to  Arthur's  request, 
and,  leaving  their  castles  well  guarded,  came  with 
ten  thousand  of  their  best  men  to  the  aid  of  the 
youthful  king.  Then  were  held  great  feasts,  and  a 
noble  tournament  was  given  on  AU-hallowmas  day, 
at  which  Sir  Kay  carried  off  the  honors  of  the  lists 
and  received  the  prize  of  valor. 

But  sport  had  soon  to  give  place  to  war,  for  the 
hostile  kings,  now  eleven  in  all,  with  a  host  of  fifty 
thousand  mounted  men  and  ten  thousand  footmen, 
were  marching  upon  King  Arthur^s  camp,  then 
at  the  Castle  of  Bedegraine,  in  Sherwood  forest. 

Two  nights  before  the  hosts  met  in  battle,  one  of 
the  hostile  leaders,  known  as  the  king  with  the 
hundred  knights,  dreamed  a  wondrous  dream.  It 
seemed  to  him  that  there  came  a  mighty  wind,  which 
blew  down  all  their  castles  and  towns,  and  that  then 
there  came  a  great  flood  and  carried  all  away.  All 
who  heard  this  dream  said  that  it  was  a  token  of 


Arthur's  wars  and  mystery  of  his  birth.  33 

great  battle,  but  by  its  portent  none  were  dismayed, 
for  they  felt  too  secure  in  their  strength  to  heed  the 
warning  of  a  dream. 

Soon  the  two  armies  drew  together,  and  encamped 
at  no  great  distance  asunder.  Then,  by  advice  of 
Merlin,  a  midnight  attack  was  made  by  Arthur  and 
his  allies  upon  the  host  of  the  eleven  kings,  as  they 
lay  sleeping  in  their  tents.  But  their  sentinels 
were  alert,  the  sound  of  the  coming  host  reached 
their  wakeful  ears,  and  loud  the  cry  ran  through 
the  camp: 

"  To  arms !  lords  and  knights,  to  arms !  The 
enemy  is  upon  us !    To  arms !    to  arms !  '^ 

On  Jike  a  wave  of  war  came  the  force  of  Arthur, 
Ban,  and  Bors.  The  stents  were  overthrown,  and  all 
the  valor  of  the  eleven  kings  was  needed  to  save 
their  army  from  defeat.  So  fiercely  went  the 
assault  that  by  day-dawn  ten  thousand  of  their  men 
lay  dead  upon  the  field,  while  Arthur's  loss  was 
but  small. 

By  Merlin's  advice,  while  it  was  yet  dark  the 
forces  of  Ban  and  Bors  had  been  placed  in  ambush 
in  the  forest.  Then  Arthur,  with  his  own  army  of 
twenty  thousand  men,  set  fiercely  on  the  overwhelm- 
ing force  of  the  foe,  and  deeds  of  mighty  prowess 
were  done,  men  falling  like  leaves,  and  many  knights 
of  tried  valor  staining  the  earth  with  their  blood. 

Fiercely  went  the  combat,  hand  to  hand  and  blade 
to  blade,  till  the  field  was  strewn  with  the  dead, 
while  none  could  tell  how  the  battle  would  end. 
But  when  Kings  Ban  and  Bors  broke  from  their 
ambush,  with  ten  thousand  fresh  men,  the  tide  of 
battle  turned  against  the  foe.     Back  they  went,  step 

3 


34  HOW  ARTHCR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

by  step,  many  of  their  men  taking  to  flight,  and 
hundreds  falling  in  death.  King  Bors  did  marvellous 
deeds  of  arms.  King  Ban,  whose  horse  was  killed, 
fought  on  foot  like  an  enraged  lion,  standing  among 
dead  men  and  horses,  and  felling  all  who  came  with- 
in reach  of  his  sword.  As  for  King  Arthur,  his 
armor  was  so  covered  with  crimson  stains  that  no 
man  knew  him,  and  his  horse  went  fetlock  deep  in 
blood. 

When  night  approached,  the  hostile  force  was 
driven  across  a  little  stream,  the  eleven  warrior 
kings  still  valiantly  facing  the  victorious  foe. 

Then  came  Merlin  into  the  press  of  struggling 
knights,  mounted  on  a  great  black  horse,  and  cried 
to  Arthur, — 

"  Wilt  thou  never  have  done  ?  Of  threescore 
thousand  men  this  day  thou  hast  left  alive  but 
fifteen  thousand,  and  it  is  time  to  cry.  Halt!  I 
bid  you  withdraw,  for  if  you  continue  the  battle 
fortune  will  turn  against  you.  As  for  these  kings, 
you  will  have  no  trouble  with  them  for  three  years 
to  come,  for  more  than  forty  thousand  Saracens 
have  landed  in  their  country,  and  are  burning  and 
despoiling  all  before  them.'^ 

This  advice  was  taken,  and  the  defeated  kings 
were  allowed  to  withdraw  the  remnant  of  their 
forces  without  further  harm,  while  King  Arthur 
richly  rewarded  his  allies  and  their  knights  from 
the  treasure  found  in  the  hostile  camp. 

Thus  was  King  Arthur  seated  firmly  on  his  throne. 
But  who  he  was  he  knew  not  yet,  for  the  mystery 
that  lay  over  his  birth  Merlin  had  never  revealed. 
After  the  battle  Merlin  went  to  his  master  Bleise, 


Arthur's  wars  and  mystery  of  his  birth.  35 

who  dwelt  in  Northumberland,  and  told  him  the 
evaoLts  of  the  mighty  contest.  These  Bleise  wrote 
down,  word  by  word,  as  he  did  the  after-events  of 
King  Arthur's  reign,  and  the  deeds  of  his  valiant 
knights.  And  so  was  made  the  chronicle  of  the 
great  achievements  of  arms,  and  the  adventures 
of  errant  knights,  from  which  this  history  is  drawn. 

Of  some  things  that  Merlin  further  did  we  must 
here  speak.  While  Arthur  dwelt  in  the  castle  of 
Bedegraine,  Merlin  came  to  him  so  disguised  that 
the  king  knew  him  not.  He  was  all  befurred  in 
black  sheepskins,  with  a  great  pair  of  boots  and  a 
bow  and  arrows,  and  brought  wild  geese  in  his  hand, 
as  though  he  had  been  a  huntsman. 

^^  Sir,^^  he  said  to  the  king,  "  will  you  give  me  a 
gift  ? '' 

"  Why  should  I  do  so,  churl  ?  "  asked  the  king. 

'^  You  had  better  give  me  a  gift  from  what  you 
have  in  hand  than  to  lose  great  riches  which  are 
now  out  of  your  reach;  for  here,  where  the  battle 
was  fought,  is  great  treasure  hidden  in  the  earth." 

"  Who  told  you  that,  churl  ?  " 

"  Merlin  told  me  so." 

Then  was  the  king  abashed,  for  he  now  knew 
that  it  was  Merlin  who  spoke,  and  it  troubled  him 
that  he  had  not  known  his  best  friend. 

Afterward,  on  a  day  when  Arthur  had  been  hunt- 
ing in  the  forest,  and  while  he  sat  in  deep  thought 
over  a  strange  dream  he  had  dreamed  and  some 
sinful  deeds  he  had  done,  there  came  to  him  a  child 
of  fourteen  years,  and  asked  him  why  he  was  so 
pensive. 

"  I  may  well  be  so,"  replied  Arthur,  "  for  I  have 
much  to  make  me  think." 


36  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 


I    know   that  well,"   said   the   seeming  child, 

also  who  thou  arf  and  all  thy  thoughts.  I  can 
tell  thee  who  was  thy  father  and  how  and  when 
thou  wert  born.'' 

"  That  is  false,"  rejoined  the  king.  "  How 
should  a  boy  of  your  years  know  my  father  ?  " 

"  He  was  Uther  Pendragon,  the  king,"  replied 
the  seeming  boy,  "  and  you  are  of  royal  blood." 

"  How  can  you  know  that  ?  I  will  not  believe 
you  without  better  proof,"  said  Arthur. 

At  these  words  the  child  departed,  but  quickly 
after  there  came  to  the  king  an  old  man  of  four- 


score vears. 

6C 


Why  are  you  so  sad  ?  "  asked  the  old  man. 

"  For  many  things,"  replied  Arthur.  "  Here 
but  now  was  a  child  who  told  me  things  which  it 
seems  to  me  he  could  not  know." 

"  He  told  you  the  truth,"  said  the  old  man,  "  and 
would  have  told  you  more  if  you  had  listened. 
This  I  am  bidden  to  tell  you,  that  you  have  done 
things  which  have  displeased  God,  and  that  your 
sister  shall  bear  a  son  who  will  destroy  you  and  all 
the  knights  of  your  land.  That  is  the  meaning  of 
your  dream  in  which  griffons  and  serpents  burnt 
and  slew  all  before  them,  and  wounded  you  to  the 
death." 

"  Who  are  you,"  said  Arthur,  "  that  tell  me  these 
things  ?  " 

"  I  am  Merlin,"  replied  the  old  man.  "  And  I 
was  the  child  who  came  to  vou." 

"You  are  a  marvellous  man,"  replied  Arthur. 
"  But  how  can  vou  know  that  I  shall  die  in  battle  ?  " 

"  How  I  know  matters  not,  but  this  much  more 


Arthur's  wars  and  mystery  of  his  birth.  37 

I  am  bidden  to  tell  you :  your  death  will  be  a  noble 
one;  but  I  shall  die  a  shameful  death,  and  shall 
be  put  in  the  earth  alive  for  my  follies.  Such  is  the 
voice  of  destiny/' 

While  they  conversed  thus,  horses  were  brought 
to  the  king,  and  he  and  Merlin  mounted  and  rode 
to  Carlion.  Here  Arthur  told  Sir  Hector  what 
he  had  heard,  and  asked  if  it  were  true. 

"  I  believe  it  to  be  the  truth,^^  answered  the  old 
baron.  "  Merlin  has  told  me  that  the  child  he 
brought  to  my  castle  was  the  son  of  King  Uther 
Pendragon  and  of  Queen  Igraine,  his  wife.'' 

But  Arthur  was  not  yet  convinced,  and  sent  in 
all  haste  for  Queen  Igraine,  who  dwelt  in  a  castle 
not  far  away,  and  came  quickly  with  Morgan  le  Fay, 
her  daughter,  a  fair  lady,  and  one  who  had  been 
taught  all  the  arts  of  necromancy. 

The  king  welcomed  her  with  rich  cheer,  and  made 
a  feast  in  her  honor,  without  saying  why  he  had 
asked  her  to  his  court.  But  when  the  feast  was 
at  its  height.  Sir  Ulfius,  the  chamberlain,  and  a 
knight  of  worth  and  honor,  rose  in  the  midst,  and 
boldly  accused  the  queen  of  falsehood  and  treason. 

"  Beware  what  you  say,"  cried  the  king.  "  Those 
are  strong  words,  and  this  lady  is  my  guest." 

I  am  well  advised  of  what  I  say,"  replied  Ulfius, 
and  here  is  my  glove  to  prove  it  upon  any  man 
who  shall  deny  it.  I  declare  that  Queen  Igraine 
is  the  cause  of  your  great  wars  and  of  deep  damage 
to  your  throne.  Had  she  told  in  the  life  of  King 
Uther  of  the  birth  of  her  son  you  would  have  been 
spared  your  wars,  for  most  of  your  l)arons  know 
not  to-day  of  what  blood  you  were  born.     There- 


C6 


38  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

fore  I  declare  her  false  to  God,  to  you,  and  to  all 
your  realm,  and  if  any  man  shall  say  me  nay  I 
stand  ready  to  prove  it  upon  his  body." 

"  I  am  a  woman,  and  I  may  not  fight,"  said  Queen 
Igraine  to  this.  "  But  there  are  men  here  will  take 
my  quarrel.  Merlin  will  bear  me  witness  that  it 
was  King  Uther's  wish,  for  reasons  of  state,  that 
the  birth  of  my  child  should  be  concealed,  and  if 
you  seek  a  traitor  you  should  accuse  Uther  Pen- 
dragon  and  not  me.  At  its  birth  the  child  was 
wrapped  in  cloth  of  gold,  by  order  of  the  king, 
and  taken  from  me,  and  from  that  day  to  this  I 
have  not  set  eyes  upon  my  son." 

"  Then,"  said  Ulfius,  "  Merlin  is  more  to  blame 
than  you." 

"  I  bowed  to  the  will  of  my  husband,"  replied 
the  queen.  "  After  the  death  of  my  lord,  the  Duke 
of  Tintagel,  King  Uther  married  me,  and  I  bore 
him  a  son,  but  I  know  not  what  has  become  of  my 
child." 

Then  Merlin  took  the  king  by  the  hand  and 
led  him  to  Queen  Igraine. 

"  This  is  your  mdther,"  he  said. 

Therewith,  Sir  Hector  bore  witness  how  the  child 
has  been  brought  by  Merlin  to  the  postern  gate 
of  his  castle,  wrapped  in  cloth  of  gold,  and  how  he 
had  reared  him  as  his  own  son,  knowing  not  who 
he  was,  but  full  sure  he  was  of  high  birth. 

These  words  removed  all  doubt  from  Arthur's 
mind,  and  with  warm  affection  he  took  his  mother 
in  his  arms,  and  kissed  her  lovingly,  while  tears 
of  joy  flowed  freely  from  the  eyes  of  mother  and 
son,  for  never  was  gladder  meeting  than  that  which 
there  took  place. 


THE  LADY  OP  THE  LAKE.  39 

For  eight  days  thereafter  feasts  and  sports  were 
held  at  the  castle,  and  great  joy  fell  upon  all  men 
to  learn  that  the  son  of  great  Uther  Pendragon  had 
come  to  the  throne.  And  far  and  wide  the  story 
spread  through  the  land  that  he  who  had  drawn 
the  magic  sword  was  the  rightful  heir  to  England's 
crown. 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE    LADY    OF    THE    LAKE. 

On  a  day  at  the  end  of  the  feasts  given  by  King 
Arthur  in  honor  of  his  mother,  there  came  into 
the  court  a  squire,  who  bore  before  him  on  his  horse 
a  knight  that  had  been  wounded  unto  death.  He 
told  how  a  stranger  knight  in  the  forest  had  set 
up  a  pavilion  by  a  well,  and  forced  all  who  passed 
to  joust  with  him.  This  stranger  had  slain  his 
master,  and  he  begged  that  some  champion  would 
revenge  the  slain  knight. 

Then  rose  Griflet,  a  youthful  squire  who  had 
done  good  service  in  the  wars,  and  begged  to  be 
knighted,  that  he  might  undertake  this  adventure. 

"  Thou  art  but  young  for  such  a  task,"  said 
Arthur. 

"  I  beseech  you  for  the  honor  of  it,"  pleaded 
Griflet.     "  I  have  done  you  knightly  service." 

Thereupon  he  was  knighted  and  armed,  and  rode 
at  day-dawn  with  a  high  heart  into  the  forest. 
But  by  night-fall  back  he  came,  with  a  spear-thrust 


40  HOW   ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

through  his  body,  and  scarce  able  to  sit  his  horse 
for  weakness.  He  had  met  the  knight,  and  barely 
escaped  with  his  life. 

This  angered  the  king,  and  he  determined  to 
undertake  the  adventure  himself,  and  to  seek  to 
punish  the  daring  knight  who  had  planted  him- 
self, with  hostile  purpose,  so  near  his  court.  By 
his  order  his  best  armor  and  horse  were  set  before 
day  at  a  point  outside  the  city,  and  at  day-dawn 
he  met  there  his  squire  and  rode  with  him  secretly 
info  the  forest. 

On  the  way  thither  he  met  three  churls,  who 
were  chasing  Merlin  and  seeking  to  slay  him.  The 
king  rode  to  them  and  sternly  bade  them  desist, 
and  on  seeing  a  knight  before  them  they  fled  in 
craven  fear. 

"  0  Merlin,"  cried  Arthur,  "  for  all  your  craft 
you  would  have  been  slain,  had  I  not  come  to 
your  aid." 

"  Not  so.  I  but  played  with  these  churls,"  said 
Merlin.  "  I  could  have  saved  myself  easily  enough. 
You  are  far  more  near  your  end  than  I,  for  unless 
God  be  your  friend  you  ride  to  your  death." 

As  they  conversed  they  came  to  the  forest  foun- 
tain, and  saw  there  a  rich  pavilion,  while  under  a 
cloth  stood  a  fair  horse,  richly  saddled  and  bridled, 
and  on  a  tree  was  a  shield  of  varied  colors  and  a 
great  spear.  In  a  chair  near  by  sat  an  armed 
knight. 

"  How  is  it,  sir  knight,"  asked  the  king,  sternly, 
"  that  you  abide  here  and  force  every  knight  that 
passes  to  joust  with  you?  It  is  an  ill  custom,  and 
I  bid  you  cease  it." 


THE  LADY  OF  THE  LAKE.  41 


a 


He  who  is  grieved  with  my  custom  may  amend 
it  if  he  will/'  said  the  knight. 

I  shall  amend  it,"  said  Arthur. 

I  shall  defend  it,"  replied  the  knight. 

With  these  words  they  mounted,  placed  their 
spears  in  rest,  and  put  their  horses  to  their  speed. 
Together  they  came  in  mid  career  with  such  vio- 
lence and  equal  fortune  that  both  spears  were 
shivered  to  splinters,  but  both  knights  remained 
in  their  saddles.  Taking  new  spears,  once  more 
they  rode,  and  once  again  met  in  mid  course  with 
the  same  fortune  as  before.  Then  Arthur  set  hand 
to  his  sword. 

"  Na}^,"  said  the  knight.  ''  You  are  the  best 
j ouster  of  all  the  men  I  ever  met.  For  the  love 
of  the  high  order  of  knighthood  let  us  break  another 
spear." 

"  I  agree,"  said  Arthur. 

Two  more  spears  were  brought  them,  and  again 
they  rode  together  with  all  the  might  and  speed 
of  their  horses.  Arthur's  spear  once  more  shiv- 
ered into  splinters  from  point  to  handle.  But  the 
knight  struck  him  so  fairly  in  the  centre  of  his 
shield  that  horse  and  man  together  fell  to  the  earth. 

Then  Arthur  drew  his  sword  eagerly  and  cried: 

"  Sir  knight,  I  have  lost  the  honor  of  horseback, 
and  will  fight  you  on  foot." 

"  I  will  meet  you  on  horse,"  replied  the  knight. 

Angry  at  this,  Arthur  advanced  towards  him  with 
ready  shield  and  sword.  But  the  knight,  feeling 
that  he  was  taking  a  noble  adversary  at  unfair 
advantage,  dismounted,  and  advanced  to  meet 
Arthur  on  foot. 


42      HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

Then  began  a  mighty  battle,  in  which  many  great 
sword-strokes  were  made,  and  much  blood  was  lost 
by  both  antagonists.  After  the  affray  had  long  con- 
tinued the  two  warriors  by  chance  struck  so  evenly 
together  that  their  swords  met  in  mid  air,  and  the 
weapon  of  the  knight  smote  that  of  Arthur  into 
two  pieces. 

"  You  are  in  my  power,"  cried  the  knight. 
"  Yield  you  as  overcome  and  recreant,  or  you  shall 
die." 

"  As  for  death,"  said  Arthur,  "  it  will  be  wel- 
come when  it  comes,  but  I  had  rather  die  than  be 
so  shamed." 

Thus  saying,  he  leaped  upon  his  foeman,  took 
him  by  the  middle  with  a  vigorous  grip,  and  threw 
him  to  the  earth.  Then  he  tore  off  his  helmet. 
The  knight,  however,  was  much  the  larger  and 
stronger  man,  and  in  his  turn  brought  Arthur  under 
him,  deprived  him  of  his  helmet,  and  lifted  his 
sword  to  strike  off  his  head. 

At  this  perilous  moment  Merlin  advanced. 

"  Knight,  hold  thy  hand,"  he  cried.  "  You  little 
know  in  what  peril  you  put  this  realm,  or  who 
the  warrior  is  beneath  your  sword." 

"  WTio  is  he  ?  "  asked  the  knight. 

"  He  is  King  Arthur." 

Then  would  the  knight  have  slain  Arthur  for 
fear  of  his  wrath,  and  raised  his  sword  again  to 
do  so,  but  at  that  moment  Merlin  threw  him  into 
an  enchanted  sleep. 

"  What  have  you  done,  Merlin  ?  "  cried  Arthur. 
"  God  grant  you  have  not  slain  this  worthy  knight 
by  your  craft !  I  would  yield  a  year  of  my  domi^^- 
ion  to  have  him  alive  again." 


THE  LADY  OF  THE  LAKE.  43 

^^  Do  not  fear/'  said  Merlin.  "  He  is  asleep  only, 
and  will  awake  within  three  hours.  And  this  I 
shall  tell  you,  there  is  not  a  stronger  knight  in 
your  kingdom  than  he,  and  hereafter  he  will  do  you 
good  service.  His  name  is  King  Pellinore,  and  he 
shall  have  two  noble  sons,  whose  names  will  be  Per- 
eivale  and  I^amorak  of  Wales.  And  this  brave 
knight  shall,  in  the  time  to  come,  tell  you  the 
name  of  that  son  of  your  sister  who  is  fated  to 
be  the  destruction  of  all  this  land." 

This  being  said,  the  king  and  the  magician  de- 
parted, leaving  the  knight  to  his  magic  slumbers. 
Soon  they  reached  the  cell  of  a  hermit  who  was 
a  noted  leech,  and  who,  with  healing  salves,  in  three 
days  cured  the  king's  wounds  so  that  he  was  able 
to  ride  again.  As  they  now  went  forward,  through 
forest  and  over  plain,  Arthur  said,—^ 

"  I  have  no  sword.  I  shall  be  ill  put  to  it  should 
I  meet  a  chiimpion." 

"  Heed  not  that,''  said  Merlin.  "  That  loss  will 
be  soon  repaired." 

And  so  they  rode  till  they  came  to  a  lake,  a  broad 
and  fair  sheet  of  water,  that  stretched  far  before 
their  eyes.  As  the  king  stood  and  looked  upon  it, 
he  saw  in  its  midst,  to  his  deep  wonder,  an  arm 
clothed  in  white  samite  lift  itself  above  the  water, 
and  in  the  hand  appeared  a  glittering  sword,  that 
gleamed  brightly  in  the  sun's  rays. 

"  Lo !  yonder  is  the  sword  I  spoke  of,"  said 
Merlin. 

Then  another  wonder  met  their  eyes,  for  a  woman 
came  walking  towards  them  upon  the  surface  of 
the  lake. 


« 


44       HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

"  What  damsel  is  that  ?  ''  asked  Arthur.  "  And 
what  means  all  this  wondrous  thing  ?  "         • 

That  is  the  Lady  of  the  Lake,"  said  Merlin. 

Within  that  lake  is  a  great  rock,  and  therein  is 
a  palace  as  fair  as  any  on  the  earth,  and  most  richly 
adorned^  wherein  this  lady  dwells.  When  she  comes 
to  you  ask  her  in  courtly  phrase  for  the  sword,  for 
it  is  hers  to  give.'^ 

Soon  came  the  damsel  to  them  and  saluted 
Arthur,  who  courteously  returned  her  salutation. 

"  Fair  lady,"  he  said,  "  what  sword  is  it  that 
yonder  arm  holds  so  strangely  above  the  water? 
I  would  it  were  mine,  for  I  have  lost  my  weapon." 

"  King  Arthur,"  replied  the  damsel,  "  the  sword 
you  see  is  mine.  But  it  shall  be  yours  if  you  will 
promise  me  a  gift  when  I  shall  ask  it  of  you." 

"  By  my  faith,"  rejoined  Arthur,  "  I  will  give 
you  whatever  gift  you  may  ask,  if  it  be  within  reason 
and  justice." 

"  Then,"  said  the  damsel,  "  go  into  the  barge 
you  see  yonder  and  row  yourself  to  the  sword,  and 
take  it  and  the  scabbard.  As  for  the  gift,  I  shall 
bide  my  time  to  ask  it." 

Arthur  and  Merlin  now  alighted  and  entered 
the  boat  they  saw  near  by,  rowing  it  to  where  the 
arm  in  white  samite  held  up  the  sword.  Reaching 
boldly  out,  Arthur  grasped  the  weapon  by  the 
handle,  and  at  once  the  arm  and  hand  disappeared 
beneath  the  water,  leaving  the  wondrous  blade  in 
his  hand,  and  the  scabbard  with  it. 

When  they  reached  the  land  again  the  Lady  of 
the  Lake  was  gone,  and  so  they  mounted  and  rode 
away   from    that   place   of   magic.      Then   Arthur 


THE  LADY  OF  THE  LAKE.  45 

looked  upon  the  sword  and  much  he  liked  it,  for 
the  blade  seemed  to  him  of  rare  promise. 

"Which  like  you  the  better,  the  sword  or  the 
scabbard  ?  "   asked  Merlin. 

The  sword/'  answered  Arthur. 
There  you  lack  wisdom/^  said  Merlin,  "  for 
the  scabbard  is  worth  ten  of  the  sword.  While  you 
wear  that  scabbard  you  shall  never  lose  blood,  how- 
ever sorely  you  be  wounded,  so  take  good  heed  to 
keep  it  always  with  you.'^ 

So  they  rode  unto  Carlion,  where  Arthur^s 
knights  were  glad  enough  to  see  him,  for  his  absence 
had  greatly  troubled  them.  And  when  they  heard 
of  his  adventures  they  marvelled  that  he  would 
risk  his  person  so  alone.  But  all  men  of  worship 
said  that  it  was  merry  to  be  under  a  chieftain  who 
would  take  upon  himself  such  adventures  as  poor 
knights  loved  to  meet. 

During  thie  absence  of  the  king  a  messenger 
had  come  to  the  court  from  King  Ryons  of  North 
Wales,  who  was  also  King  of  Ireland,  and  of  many 
islands,  bearing  a  message  of  most  insulting  pur- 
port. He  said  that  King  Eyons  had  discomfited 
and  overcome  eleven  kings,  each  of  w^hom  had  been 
forced  to  do  him  homage  in  the  following  manner : 
each  had  sent  him  his  beard,  and  the  king  had 
trimmed  his  mantle  with  these  kings'  beards.  But 
there  lacked  one  place  on  the  mantle,  and  he  there- 
fore sent  for  King  Arthur's  beard  to  complete  the 
fringe.  If  it  were  not  sent  him  he  would  enter  the 
land  and  burn  and  slay,  and  never  leave  till  he  had 
head  and  beard  together. 

^^Well,''  said  Arthur,  "you  have  said  your  mes- 


46  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

sage,  and  the  most  villanous  one  it  is  that  ever 
living  man  sent  unto  a  king;  you  may  see,  more- 
over, that  my  beard  as  yet  is  somewhat  too  young 
to  serve  as  a  trimming  to  his  mantle.  This,  then, 
you  may  tell  your  king.  Neither  I  nor  my  lords 
owe  him  any  homage.  But  if  he  shall  not  before 
many  days  do  me  homage  on  both  his  bended  knees, 
by  the  faith  of  my  body  he  shall  lose  his  head,  in 
requital  for  the  shameful  and  discourteous  message 
that  he  has  sent  me.  Bear  you  this  answer  to 
your  king." 

And  so  the  messenger  departed. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

GUENEVER   AND   THE   ROUND   TABLE. 

And  now  we  have  to  tell  the  story  of  how  King 
Arthur  got  his  fair  wife  Guenever,  and  how  the 
Round  Table  was  brought  to  England's  realm. 

After  the  defeat  of  the  eleven  kings,  Arthur 
had  rescued  King  Leodegrance  of  Cameliard  from 
King  Ryons,  and  put  the  latter  with  all  his  host 
to  flight.  And  at  the  court  of  Leodegrance  he 
saw  his  charming  daughter  Guenever,  whom  he 
ever  after  loved. 

So  it  fell  upon  a  time  that  Arthur  said  to  Mer- 
lin,— 

"My  barons  give  me  no  peace,  but  day  by  day 
insist  that  I  shall  take  a  wife.     But  whether  I 


GUENEVER  AND  THE  ROUND  TABLE.      47 

marry  or  not,  I  shall  take  no  step  without  your 
counsel  and  advice." 

"  Your  barons  counsel  well/'  said  Merlin.  "  A 
man  of  your  bounty  and  nobleness  should  not  be 
without  a  wife.  Is  there  any  one  woman  that 
you  love  beyond  others  ?  " 

"  Yes,  by  my  faith  there  is/'  said  Arthur.  "  I 
love  Guenever,  the  daughter  of  King  Leodegrance, 
of  Caineliard,  he  who  has  in  his  house  the  Eound 
Table,  which  you  have  told  me  he  had  of  my  father 
King  Uther.  This  damsel  is  the  loveliest  lady  that 
I  know,  or  could  ever  hope  to  find." 

"  Of  her  beauty  and  fairness  no  man  can  ques- 
tion," said  Merlin.  "  If  your  heart  were  not  set, 
I  could  find  you  a  damsel  of  beauty  and  goodness 
that  would  please  you  as  well.  But  where  a  man's 
heart  is  fixed  there  will  he  turn  against  the  counsel 
of  wise  and  foolish  alike." 

"  You  speak  the  truth,"  said  Arthur. 

Covertly,  however,  Merlin  warned  the  king  that 
Guenever  would  bring  trouble  to  his  court  and 
his  heart,  and  counselled  him  to  weigh  well  what 
he  thought  to  do.  But  Arthur's  love  was  warm, 
and  the  wise  man's  counsel,  as  he  had  said,  fell 
like  water  on  a  stone.  Thereupon  Merlin  went  to 
Cameliard  and  told  King  Leodegrance  of  Arthur's 
wish. 

"This  is  to  me/'  said  Leodegrance,  "the  best 
tidings  that  any  man  living  could  bring;  that,  a 
monarch  of  such  prowess  and  nobleness  should  ask 
to  wed  my  daughter.  Cheerfully  will  I  give  her, 
and  I  would  give  lands  in  dowry  with  her,  but  of 
that  he  has  enough  already.     Yet  I  can  send  him 


48  HOW   ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

a  gift  that  will  please  him  far  more  than  lands 
or  treasure,  no  less  a  gift  than  the  Table  Eound, 
which  Uther  Pendragon  gave  me,  and  around  which 
may  be  seated  a  hundred  and  fifty  knights.  As 
for  myself,  I  have  but  a  hundred  knights  worthy 
to  sit  at  the  table,  but  these  I  will  send  to  Arthur, 
who  must  complete  the  tale  himself.^' 

And  so,  with  Guenever,  and  the  Eound  Table, 
and  the  hundred  knights.  Merlin  set  out  for  Lon- 
don, where  Arthur  then  was,  and  whither  the  noble 
cavalcade  rode  in  royal  procession  through  the  land. 

When  King  Arthur  heard  of  their  coming  his 
heart  was  filled  with  joy,  and  he  said  to  those  around 
him, — 

"  This  fair  lady  is  very  welcome  to  me,  for  I 
have  loved  her  long.  And  these  knights  with  the 
Round  Table  please  me  more  than  if  the  greatest 
riches  had  been  sent,  for  I  value  worth  and  prowess 
far  above  wealth  and  honors.^' 

He  ordered  the  marriage  and  coronation  to  be 
prepared  for  in  royal  pomp,  but  with  no  needless 
delay. 

"  And,  Merlin,"  he  said,  "  I  pray  you  to  go  and 
seek  me  out  fifty  knights  of  the  highest  honor  and 
valor,  to  complete  the  tale  of  my  Round  Table 
Knights.^' 

Merlin  went,  and  in  a  short  time  brought  twenty- 
eight  knights  whom  he  deemed  worthy  of  that  high 
honor,  but  no  more  could  he  find. 

Then  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  was  brought, 
and  he  blessed  the  seats  of  the  Round  Table  with 
great  worship  and  ceremony,  and  placed  the  twenty- 
eight  knights  in  their  chairs.  When  this  was  done 
Merlin  said, — 


KINO  ARTHUR'S  FAIR 


GUEXEVER  AXD  THE  ROUND  TABL£.  49 


« 


Fair  sirs,  jou  must  all  rise  and  come  to  King 
Arthur  and  do  him  homage.  For  henceforth  jou 
are  his  chosen  knights,  and  mnst  so  declare.  And 
know  Tou  well,  that  great  shall  be  the  future  honor 
and  fame  of  all  who'  worthily  occupy  these  seats." 

At  tlus  request  the  knights  arose,  and  did  homage 
to  the  king.  And  when  they  had  risen  from  their 
seats  there  appeared  in  each  in  letters  of  gold  the 
name  of  him  who  had  sat  therein.  But  two  seats 
were  wanting  from  the  full  tale. 

**  What  is  the  reason  of  this  ?  "    asked  Arthur. 

Why  are  there  two  seats  lacking  ?  "' 

Sir,"  answered  Merlin,  '"no  man  shall  occupy 
those  places  but  the  most  worshipful  of  knights. 
And  in  the  Seat  Perilous,  which  adjoins  them,  no 
man  shall  sit  but  one,  and  if  anv  one  unworthy 
of  this  honor  shall  be  so  hardy  as  to  attempt  it, 
he  shall  be  destroyed.  He  that  shall  sit  there  shall 
have  no  fellow.'^ 

Anon  came  young  Gawaine,  the  son  of  King  Lot, 
a  squire  of  handsome  mien,  who  asked  of  the  king 
a  gift 

"  Ask,  and  I  shall  grant  it,''  answered  the  king. 

"  I  ask  that  vou  make  me  knic^ht  on  the  day  vou 
wed  fair  Guenever.'* 

"  That  shall  I  do  willingly,"  said  Arthur,  "  and 
with  what  worship  I  may,  since  you  are  my  nephew, 
mv  sister's  son." 

[Here  it  is  proper  to  say  that  Arthur  had  three 
sisters,  the  daughters  of  Queen  Igraine  and  her  first 
husband,  the  Duke  of  Tintagil.  One  of  these,  Mar- 
gawse,  had  married  King  Lot,  and  had  four  sons, 
all  of  whom  became  valiant  knights;    Elaine,  the 

4 


60  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

second,  had  married  King  Neutres  of  Garlot;  the 
third  sister,  Morgan  le  Fay,  had  been  put  to  school, 
where  she  became  learned  in  the  art  of  necromancy ; 
of  the  fourth  the  chronicles  fail  to  speak.] 

Hardly  had  Gawaine  spoken  when  there  came 
riding  into  the  court  a  poor  man,  who  brought  with 
him  a  fair-faced  youth,  of  eighteen  years  of  age, 
riding  upon  a  lean  mare. 

"  Sir,  will  you  grant  me  a  gift  ?  "  the  old  man 
asked  of  the  king.  "  I  was  told  that  you  would 
at  the  time  of  your  marriage  grant  any  gift  that 
was  asked  for  in  reason." 

"That  is  true,''  said  the  king.  "What  would 
you  have  ?  " 

"  Jesu  save  you,  most  gracious  king.  I  ask  noth- 
ing more  than  that  you  make  my  son  a  knight." 

"  It  is  a  great  thing  you  ask,"  said  the  king. 
"  Who  are  you,  and  what  claim  has  your  son  to  this 
high  honor  ?  " 

"  I  am  but  a  cowherd,  great  sir,  and  am  the 
father  of  thirteen  sons.  But  this  one  is  unlike 
all  the  rest.  He  will  do  no  labor,  and  cares  for 
nothing  but  warlike  sports,  and  seeing  knights  and 
battles.  And  day  and  night  he  craves  for  knight- 
hood." 

"  What  is  thy  name  ?  "  the  king  asked  the  young 
man.* 

"  Sir,  my  name  is  Tor." 

The  king  looked  at  him  closely.  He  was  of  hand- 
some face,  and  was  very  well  made  and  strong  of 
limb  and  body. 

"  Where  is  the  sword  with  which  thi-s  youth  shall 
be  made  knight  ?  "  asked  the  king. 


GUENEVER  AND  THE  ROUND  TABLE.  51 


It  is  here/^  said  Tor. 

Then  draw  it  from  the  scabbard,  and  require  me 
to  make  you  a  knight." 

At  these  words  the  youth  sprang  lightly  and 
gladly  from  his  mare,  drew  the  sword,  and  kneeled 
before  the  king,  asking  him  in  earnest  tones  to 
make  him  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table. 

A  knight  I  will  make  you,"  answered  the  king. 
But  the  Round  Table  is  not  for  untried  youth." 

Thereupon  he  smote  him  upon  the  neck  w4th  the 
sword,  and  said, — 

"  Be  you  a  good  knight,  and  I  pray  God  you  may 
be  so.  If  you  prove  of  prowess  and  worth  I  promise 
you  shall  in  good  time  have  a  seat  at  the  Round 
Table." 

"  Now,  Merlin,"  said  Arthur,  "  tell  me  whether 
this  Tor  will  be  a  good  knight  or  not." 

"  He  should  be  so,"  answered  Merlin,  "  for  he 
comes  of  kingly  blood.  The  cowherd  here  is  no 
more  his  father  than  •!,  but  he  is  the  son  of  the  good 
knight.  King  Pellinore,  whose  prowess  you  have 
much  reason  to  know." 

By  good  hap  King  Pellinore  himself  came  next 
morning  to  the  court,  and  was  glad  to  find  what 
honor  had  been  done  his  son,  whom  he  gladly 
acknowledged  as  his. 

Then  Merlin  took  Pellinore  by  the  hand  and  led 
him  to  the  seat  next  the  Seat  Perilous. 

"This  is  your  place  at  the  Round  Table,"  he 
said.  "There  is  none  here  so  worthy  as  yourself 
to  sit  therein." 

At  a  later  hour  of  that  eventful  day,  in  the  city 
of  London,  and  at  the  Church  of  Saint  Stephen, 


52  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

King  Arthur  was  wedded  unto  Dame  Guenever, 
with  the  highest  pomp  and  ceremony,  and  before 
as  noble  an  assemblage  of  knights  and  ladies  as  the 
land  held. 

Afterwards  a  high  feast  was  made,  and  as  the 
knights  sat,  each  in  his  appointed  place,  at  the 
Eound  Table,  Merlin  came  to  them  and  bade  them 
sit  still. 

"  For  you  shall  see  a  strange  and  marvellous 
happening,"  he  said. 

Hardly  had  he  spoken  before  there  came  running 
a  white  hart  into  the  hall,  closely  followed  by  a 
white  brachet,^  while  thirty  couple  of  black  hounds 
in  full  cry  came  after,  and  chased  the  hart  round 
the  feasting  boards  and  then  round  the  Round 
Table. 

As  they  ran  the  brachet  caught  the  hart  by  the 
haunch,  and  bit  out  a  piece,  whereupon  the  wounded 
animal  made  a  great  leap  over  a  table,  and  through 
a  window,  with  such  force  as  to  overthrow  a  knight. 
Through  the  window  the  hounds  followed,  in  full 
cry. 

The  fallen  knight  quickly  rose,  took  up  the 
brachet  in  his  arms,  and  left  the  hall.  Seeking  his 
horse,  he  rode  away,  carrying  the  brachet  with  him. 
But  hardly  had  he  gone  when  a  lady  came  riding 
into  the  hall  on  a  white  palfrey,  and  crying  aloud 
to  King  Arthur, — 

"  Sir,  suffer  not  yonder  knight  to  do  me  this 
wrong.     The  brachet  that  he  has  taken  away  is 


mino.^' 


*  A  small  scenting  dog. 


GUENEVER  AND  THE  ROUND  TABLE.  53 

She  had  but  ceased  speaking  when  an  armed 
knight  rode  up  on  a  great  horse,  and  took  her  away 
by  force,  though  she  bitterly  cried  and  called  for 
aid; 

"  This  affair  must  not  be  taken  lightly/^  said 
Merlin  to  the  king.  "  The  honor  of  your  court 
requires  that  you  shall  redress  all  wrongs,  and 
here,  at  your  marriage  feast,  have  great  wrongs 
been  done.^' 

"  What  do  you  advise  ?  ^'  asked  the  king.  "  I 
shall  be  governed  by  your  counsel.^^ 

"Then,'^  answered  Merlin,  "call  Sir  Gawaine, 
for  he  must  bring  again  the  white  hart.  Also 
call  Sir  Tor,  for  to  him  must  be  assigned  the  adven- 
ture of  the  knight  and  the  brachet.  As  for  the 
lady  and  the  knight,  King  Pellinore  must  bring 
them,  or  slay  the  knight  if  he  will  not  come.'^ 

Thereupon  they  were  all  three  called,  and  they 
armed  and  rode  forth  on  the  errands  assigned  them. 
Many  and  strange  were  the  adventures  of  these 
valiant  knights,  but  we  have  matter  of  more  moment 
to  tell,  and  so  cannot  relate  their  valorous  deeds. 
We  can  but  say  that  Gawaine  brought  back  the  head 
of  the  hart,  and  little  honor  with  it,  for  by  an  evil 
accident  he  killed  a  lady,  and  barely  escaped  with 
life  from  her  champions. 

Sir  Tor  had  better  fortune,  for  he  brought  the 
brachet  alive,  and  won  much  honor  from  his  deeds. 

King  Pellinore  was  also  successful  in  his  quest, 
for  he  brought  back  the  lady  in  safety,  after  having 
fought  with  and  slain  her  kidnapper.  This  lady^s 
name  was  Nimue,  and  of  her  we  shall  have  many 
strange  things  to  tell  hereafter. 


54  HOW  ARTHUR  WON  THE  THRONE. 

Thus  ended  the  three  quests  which  followed  the 
marriage  of  King  Arthur  and  Guenever  the  fair. 
Afterwards  the  king  established  his  knights,  giving 
lands  to  those  who  were  poor,  and  enjoining  all 
against  outrage,  and  in  favor  of  mercy  and  gentle- 
ness. He  also  bade  them  to  succot  all  ladies  in  dis- 
tress, and  never  to  engage  in  a  wrongful  quarrel, 
or  to  strive  for  worldly  goods. 

Unto  this  were  sworn  all  the  Knights  of  the 
Eound  Table,  old  and  young.  And  it  was  ordained 
that  they  should  renew  their  oaths  every  year  at  the 
high  feast  of  Pentecost,  that  their  obligations  might 
never  be  forgotten,  and  the  honor  and  renown  of 
the  glorious  fellowship  of  the  Round  Table  never 
decline. 

In  this  manner  began  that  illustrious  career  of 
the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table,  which  was  destined 
to  shed  the  greatest  glory  on  Arthur's  reign,  and 
to  fill  the  whole  worid  with  its  fame.  Valorous 
as  were  the  knights  who  first  composed  that  noble 
order  of  chivalry,  it  was  afterwards  to  include  such 
world-renowned  warriors  as  Lancelot  du  Lake,  Tris- 
tram de  Lyonesse,  and  others  of  little  less  prowess, 
the  story  of  whose  noble  exploits  and  thrilling 
adventures  was  destined  to  be  told  by  bards  and  sung 
by  minstrels  till  all  time  should  ring  with  the  tale, 
and  men  of  honor  in  far  future  days  be  stirred  to 
emulation  of  these  worthy  knights  of  old. 


BOOK  II. 

THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN, 


CHAPTER  I. 

HOW  BALIN  WON  AND  USED  THE  ENCHANTED  SWORD. 

It  befell  upon  a  time  when  King  Arthur  was 
at  London,  that  tidings  came  to  him  that  King 
Ryons  of  North  Wales  was  carrying  out  his  threat. 
He  had  crossed  the  borders  with  an  army,  and  was 
burning  and  harrying  his  lands  and  slaying  his 
people  without  mercy.  On  learning  this  the  king 
sent  word  to  his  lords  and  knights  to  assemble  with 
all  haste  at  Camelot,  where  a  council  would  be  held 
and  measures  of  defence  and  reprisal  taken. 

And  it  so  fell  out  that  while  this  assembly  was 
in  session  at  Camelot,  a  damsel  came  into  the  court 
who  had  been  sent  by  the  great  lady  Lile  of  Avelion. 
When  she  came  before  King  Arthur  she  let  fall  her 
mantle,  which  was  richly  furred,  and  revealed  a 
noble  sword,  with  which  she  was  girt. 

"  Damsel,^'  said  the  king  in  wonder,  "  why  wear 
you  that  sword  ?     It  beseems  you  not." 

"Indeed,  sir,  it  is  a  sore  burden  to  me,'^  replied 
the  damsel,  "  but  I  must  wear  it  till  a  knight  of  the 
highest  honor  and  virtue  can  be  found  to  deliver 
me  of  my  charge.  None  other  than  such  a  one 
may  draw  this  sword  from  its  sheath,  for  so  it  is 

55 


56  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

ordained.  I  have  been  to  King  Ryons's  camp,  where 
I  was  told  there  were  knights  of  high  excellence, 
and  he  and  all  his  knights  tried  it,  but  in  vain. 
I  have  therefore  come  to  your  court  with  my  burden, 
and  hope  that  the  knight  fit  to  draw  it  may  here 
be  found/^ 

"  This  is  surely  a  great  marvel,"  said  Arthur. 
"  I  shall  try  to  draw  the  sword  myself ;  not  that 
I  claim  to  be  the  best  knight,  but  as  an  example 
to  my  barons.'^ 

Then  Arthur  took  the  sword  by  the  sheath  and 
the  girdle,  and  pulled  at  it  eagerly,  but  it  failed 
to  yield. 

"  You  need  not  pull  so  hard,''  said  the  damsel. 
"  He  who  shall  draw  it  will  need  little  strength, 
but  much  virtue." 

^'  Kow  try  ye,  all  my  barons,"  said  Arthur.  "  But 
beware  ye  be  not  defiled  with  shame,  treachery, 
or  guile." 

"  That  is  well  advised,"  said  the  damsel,  "  for 
none  shall  draw  it  but  a  clean  knight  without 
villany,  and  of  gentle  birth  both  by  father  and 
mother." 

Then  most  of  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table 
who  were  there  tried  their  fortunes,  but  none 
succeeded  in  the  magic  task. 

"  Alas !  "  said  the  damsel,  "  I  hoped  to  find  in 
this  court  the  best  knights  upon  earth." 

"  By  my  faith,"  said  Arthur,  "  the  world  holds 
no  better  knights;  but  it  grieves  me  to  find  that 
none  here  seem  to  have  the  grace  or  power  to  draw 
this  sword." 

It  happened  that  at  that  time  there  was  a  poor 


HOW  BALIN   WON  AND  USED  THE  SWORD.       57 

knight  of  Northumberland  birth  in  Arthur's  court, 
Balin  by  name.  He  had  been  held  prisoner  there 
more  than  half  a  year,  for  slaying  a  knight  who  was 
cousin  to  the  king,  and  had  just  been  set  free 
through  the  good  services  of  some  of  the  barons, 
who  knew  that  he  was  not  at  fault  in  this  deed. 

When  he  learned  what  was  being  done  his  heart 
bade  him  try  his  fortune,  but  he  was  so  poor  and 
so  shabbily  dressed  that  he  held  back  in  shame. 
Yet  when  the  damsel  took  her  leave  of  Arthur 
and  his  barons,  and  was  passing  from  the  court, 
Balin  called  to  her  and  said, — 

"  Suffer  me,  I  pray  you,  to  try  this  venture. 
Though  I  am  poorly  clad,  and  but  ill  considered,  I 
feel  in  my  heart  that  in  honor  and  grace  I  stand 
as  high  as  any  of  those  knights.'' 

The  damsel  looked  on  him  with  some  disdain, 
and  begged  him  not  to  put  her  to  useless  trouble, 
for  he  seemed  not  the  man  to  succeed  where  so 
many  of  noble  guise  had  failed. 

^^  Fair  damsel,"  he  replied,  "  you  should  well 
know  that  worthiness  and  good  qualities  do  not 
dwell  in  attire,  but  that  manhood  and  virtue  lie 
hidden  within  man's  person,  not  in  his  dress;  and 
therefore  many  a  worshipful  knight  is  not  known 
to  all  people." 

"  You  speak  wisely,"  said  the  damsel.  "  You 
shall  essay  the  task,  and  may  fortune  befriend 
you." 

Then  Balin  took  the  sword  by  the  girdle  and 
sheath,  and  drew  it  out  with  such  ease  that  king 
and  barons  alike  were  filled  with  wonder,  and  manv 
of  the  knights,  in  spite  and  jealousy,  cried  that 


68  THE  DEEDS  OP  BALIN. 

Balin  had  done  this  not  by  might,  but  by  witch- 
craft. 

"  He  is  a  good  knight,"  cried  the  damsel,  "  the 
best  and  worthiest  among  you  all,  even  if  fortune 
has  dealt  with  him  shabbily.  Now,  gentle  and 
courteous  knight,  give  me  the  sword  again." 

"  No,"  said  Balin,  "  I  have  fairly  won  this  sword, 
and  well  it  pleases  me.  I  shall  keep  it  unless  it 
be  taken  from  me  by  force." 

"You  are  not  wise  to  keep  it,"  said  the  damsel. 
"  I  warn  you  that  if  you  do  so  you  will  slay  with 
the.  sword  your  best  friend  and  the  man  you  most 
love  in  the  world,  and  that  it  will  be  your  destruc- 
tion." 

"  I  shall  take  such  adventure  as  God  may  ordain 
me,"  said  Balin,  "but  by  the  faith  of  my  body  I 
shall  keep  the  sword." 

You  will  quickly  repent  it,"  said  the  damsel. 

It  is  more  for  your  good  than  for  mine  that  I 
ask  it  back.  I  am  sad  to  find  that  you  will  not  be- 
lieve me,  and  will  bring  destruction  on  yourself. 
The  wilful  man  makes  his  own  destiny."  With  this 
the  damsel  departed,  in  great  sorrow. 

Then  Balin  sent  for  his  horse  and  his  armor,  and 
made  ready  to  depart,  though  Arthur  begged  him 
to  remain. 

"  I  knew  not  your  worth,"  he  said,  "  or  you  should 
not  have  been  so  unkindly  treated.  I  was  misin- 
formed concerning  you." 

"  My  heartfelt  thanks  are  yours,"  said  Balin. 
"  But  asking  your  good  grace,  I  must  needs  depart." 

"  Then  tarry  not  long,  fair  knight ;  you  shall 
always  be  welcome  to  my  court." 


HOW  BALIN  WON  AND  USED  THE  SWORD.       69 

So  Balin  donned  his  armor  and  made  ready  to 
depart.  But  while  he  still  tarried  there  came  to 
the  court  a  lady  richly  attired,  and  riding  on  a 
handsome  horse. 

She  saluted  King  Arthur,  and  presented  herself 
as  the  Lady  of  the  Lake,  from  whom  he  had  re- 
ceived the  sword,  saying  that  she  had  now  come  to 
demand  the  gift  which  he  had  promised  her  when- 
ever she  should  ask  for  it. 

"  A  gift  I  promised  you,  indeed,'^  said  Arthur, 
"and  you  do  well  to  ask  it.  But  first  I  would 
know  the  name  of  the  sword  you  gave  me." 

"  The  name  of  it,"  said  the  lady,  "  is  Excalibur, 
which  signifies  cut-steel." 

"  Then  well  is  it  named,"  said  the  king.  "  Now 
ask  what  gift  you  will.  If  it  is  in  my  power  to 
present  you  shall  have  it." 

"  What  I  ask,"  said  the  Lady  of  the  Lake,  "  is 
the  head  of  the  knight  who  has  just  won  the  sword, 
or  of  the  damsel  who  brought  it;  or  both  their 
heads,  if  you  will.  He  slew  my  brother,  and  she 
caused  my  father's  death." 

"Truly,"  said  the  king,  in  pain  and  wonder, 
"  you  ask  what  I  cannot  in  honor  grant.  Ask  what 
you  will  else  and  you  shall  not  be  denied,  but  even 
a  king  cannot  pay  his  debts  with  murder." 

"  I  shall  ask  nothing  else,"  said  the  lady.  "  Little 
deemed  I  that  King  Arthur  would  be  recreant  to 
his  word." 

When  Balin  was  told  of  the  demand  of  the  Lady 
of  the  Lake,  he  went  straight  to  her,  where  she 
stood  before  the  king,  and  said,  "  Evil  you  are  in 
heart  and  voice,  and  evil  have  ever  been.     Vile  en- 


60  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

chantress,  you  would  have  my  head,  and  therefore 
shall  lose  yours/^  And  with  a  light  stroke  of  his 
sword  he  smote  off  her  head  before  the  king,  so  that 
it  fell  bleeding  at  his  feet. 

"  What  shame  is  this  ?  ^'  cried  Arthur,  in  hot 
wrath.  "  Why  have  you  dared  treat  thus  a  lady  to 
whom  I  was  beholden,  and  who  came  here  under 
my  safe-conduct?^^ 

"  Your  displeasure  grieves  me,"  said  Balin. 
"  But  you  know  not  this  lady,  or  you  would  not 
blame  me  for  her  death,  for  she  was  of  all  women 
the  vilest  that  ever  breathed.  By  enchantment  and 
sorcery  she  has  slain  many  good  knights,  and  I 
have  sought  her  during  three  years,  to  repay  her 
for  the  falsehood  and  treachery  by  which  she  caused 
my  mother  to  be  burnt." 

"Whatever  your  grievance,  you  should  not  have 
cjought  your  revenge  in  my  presence.  You  have 
done  me  a  foul  disgrace,  sir  knight.  Leave  my 
court  in  all  haste  while  you  may,  and  believe  me 
you  shall  be  made  to  repent  this  insult  to  my 
dignity." 

Then  Balin  took  up  the  head  of  the  lady,  and 
meeting  his  squire  at  his  inn,  they  rode  together 
from  the  town. 

"  Now,"  said  the  knight,  "  we  must  part.  Take 
this  head  and  bear  it  to  my  friends  in  Northum- 
berland, and  tell  them  that  my  mortal  foe  is  dead. 
Also  tell  them  that  I  am  out  of  prison,  and  by 
what  adventure  I  got  this  sword." 

"  You  were  greatly  to  blame  to  displease  King 
Arthur,"  said  the  squire. 

As  for  that,"  said  Balin,  "  I  hope  to  win  his 


66 


HOW  BALIN  WON  AND  USED  THE  SWORD.   61 

grace  again  by  the  death  or  capture  of  King  Ryons, 
whom  I  go  to  meet.  The  woman  sought  my  death, 
and  has  had  her  just  deserts.'^ 

"Where  shall  I  find  you  again?"  asked  the 
squire. 

"In  King  Arthur^s  court." 

And  so  they  parted.  Meanwhile  King  Arthur 
and  all  the  court  grieved  deeply  over  the  death  of 
the  Lady  of  the  Lake,  and  felt  greatly  shamed  that 
they  had  not  hindered  the  sudden  and  bloody  deed. 
And  the  king  ordered  that  she  should  have  a  rich 
and  stately  funeral. 

At  this  time  there  was  in  Arthur's  court  a  knight 
named  Lanceor,  the  son  of  the  king  of  Ireland,  a 
proud  and  valiant  warrior,  who  was  angry  at  Balin 
for  winning  the  sword,  and  sought  revenge  on  him. 
He  asked  the  king  to  give  him  leave  to  ride  after 
Balin  and  revenge  the  insult  to  his  crown. 

"  Go  and  do  your  best,"  said  the  king.  "  Balin 
has  done  me  a  great  despite,  and  richly  deserves 
punishment." 

Thereupon  the  knight  of  Ireland  armed  and 
rode  at  all  speed  after  Balin,  whom  he  quickly 
overtook  on  a  mountain  side.  He  called  to  him 
in  loud  tones, — 

"  Stop,  sir  knight.  You  shall  halt  whether  you 
will  or  not,  and  the  shield  you  bear  shall  prove 
but  light  defence  to  you,  for  I  am  come  to  punish 
vou  for  vour  crime." 

Hearing  this  outcry,  Balin  turned  fiercely,  and 
demanded, — 

"  What  do  you  wish,  sir  knight  ?  Are  you  here 
to  joust  with  me?  " 


62  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

"  It  is  for  that  I  have  followed  yon/'  said  the 
Irish  knight. 

"  It  might  have  been  better  for  you  to  stay  at 
home,"  answered  Balin.  "  Many  a  knight  who 
thinks  to  chastise  his  enemy  finds  ill  fortune  to 
fall  upon  himself.  From  what  court  have  you  been 
sent  ? '' 

"  From  the  court  of  King  Arthur,  to  revenge  the 
insult  you  put  upon  him  in  murdering  his  guest 
before  his  face." 

"  Then  must  I  fight  with  you,"  said  Balin.  "  Yet 
I  warn  you  your  quarrel  is  a  weak  one.  The  lady 
that  is  dead  richly  deserved  her  fate,  or  I  should 
have  been  as  loath  as  any  knight  living  to  kill  a 
woman." 

"  Make  ready,"  said  Lanceor.  "  Fight  we  must, 
and  one  of  us  shall  remain  dead  upon  this  field. 
Our  combat  is  to  the  utterance." 

Then  they  put  their  spears  in  rest,  and  rode 
together  at  the  full  speed  of  their  horses,  meeting 
with  a  shock  in  mid  career.  Lanceor  struck  Balin 
a  blow  upon  the  shield  that  shivered  the  spear  in 
his  hand.  But  Balin  smote  him  with  such  force 
that  the  spear-point  went  through  shield  and  hau- 
berk, and  pierced  his  body,  so  that  he  fell  dead  to 
the  earth. 

As  the  victorious  knight  stood  looking  on  the 
corpse  of  his  slain  foe,  there  came  from  Camelot 
a  damsel,  who  rode  up  at  full  speed  upon  a  fair 
palfrey.  When  she  saw  that  Lanceor  was  dead 
she  fell  into  a  passion  of  sorrow,  and  cried  out  in 
tones  of  deep  lamentation, — 

"  Oh,  Balin,  thou  hast  slain  two  bodies  and  one 


HOW  BALIN  WON  AND  USED  THE  SWORD.       63 


heart !     Yes,  two  hearts  in  one  body,  and  two  souls 
thou  hast  murdered  with  thy  fatal  spear/' 

Then  she  took  the  sword  from  her  love,  and  as 
she  took  it  fell  to  the  ground  in  a  swoon.  When 
she  arose  again  her  sorrow  was  so  great  that  Balin 
was  grieved  to  the  heart,  and  he  sought  to  take 
the  sword  from  her  hands,  but-  she  held  it  so  firmly 
that  he  could  not  wrest  it  from  her  without  hurting 
her.  Suddenly,  before  he  could  move  to  hinder, 
she  set  the  pommel  of  the  sword  to  the  ground  and 
threw  her  body  upon  the  naked  blade.  Pierced 
through  the  heart,  she  fell  dead  upon  the  body  of 
her  slain  love. 

"  Alas ! ''  said  Balin,  "  that  this  should  have  hap- 
pened. I  deeply  regret  the  death  of  this  knight 
for  the  love  of  this  damsel;  for  such  true  love  as 
this  I  never  saw  before.  Yet  his  death  was  forced 
on  me,  and  hers  I  could  not  hinder.'' 

Full  of  sorrow,  he  turned  his  horse,  and  as  he 
looked  towards  a  great  forest  near  by  he  saw  a 
knight  riding  towards  him,  whom  he  knew,  by  his 
arms,  to  be  his  brother  Balan. 

When  they  were  met  they  took  off  their  helmets 
and  kissed  each  other,  and  wept  for  joy  and  pity. 

"  I  little  expected  to  meet  you  thus,"  said  Balan. 
'^  A  man  in  the  Castle  of  Four  Stones  told  me  that 
you  were  freed  from  prison,  and  therefore  I  came 
hither  in  hope  to  find  you  at  the  court." 

Then  Balin  told  his  brother  of  all  that  had  hap- 
pened at  Camelot,  and  of  the  displeasure  of  the 
king,  and  that  he  had  determined  to  win  Arthur's 
favor  at  the  risk  of  his  life. 

King  Kyons  lies  not  far  away  besieging  the 


66 


64  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIK. 

Castle  Terrabil,"  he  said.  "  Thither  will  we  ride, 
to  prove  our  worth  and  prowess  upon  him." 

"  I  shall  be  your  comrade,"  said  Balan.  "  We 
shall  help  each  other  as  brethren  should,  and  trust 
to  God  for  fortune." 

As  they  stood  conversing  there  came  a  dwarf 
riding  in  all  haste  from  Camelot.  When  he  saw 
the  dead  bodies  he  tore  his  hair  for  sorrow. 

"  Which  of  you  knights  has  done  this  foul  deed?  " 
he  demanded. 

"Why  do  you  ask?"  queried  Balin. 

"  Because  I  have  the  right  to  know." 

"  It  was  I,"  said  Balin.  "  He  pursued  me  hither, 
and  forced  me  to  fight.  One  of  us  had  to  die.  As 
for  the  damsel,  she  died  by  her  own  hand,  for  which 
no  man  can  be  sorrier  than  I.  For  her  sake  I 
shall  owe  all  women  the  better  love  and  favor." 

"  You  have  done  yourself  great  damage,"  said 
the  dwarf.  "  The  kindred  of  this  knight  will  follow 
you  through  the  world  till  they  have  revenged  on 
you  his  death." 

"  That  I  do  not  greatly  dread,"  said  Balin. 
"But  I  am  sorry  to  have  displeased  King  Arthur 
for  the  death  of  this  knight;  and  sorrier  still  for 
the  fate  of  this  lovelorn  damsel." 

As  they  thus  talked  there  chanced  to  pass  a  king 
of  Cornwall,  named  King  Hark,  who  halted  on 
seeing  the  dead  bodies,  and  demanded  what  had 
been  done.  When  the  tale  was  told  him  he  was 
grieved  that  true  love  .should  have  met  so  sad  a 
fate,  and  said,  "  I  shall  not  leave  here  till  I  have 
built  them  a  tomh,  for  they  have  earned  a  rich 
interment." 


HOW  ARTHUR  TRIUMPHED  OVER  THE  KINGS.     66 

Then  he  pitched  his  tents,  and  buried  them  nobly, 
placing  above  them  a  rich  and  fair  tomb  which  he 
found  in  a  church  near  by,  and  upon  this  tomb  he 
wrote  their  epitaph,  as  follows : 

"  Here  lieth  Lanceor,  the  son  of  Ireland's  king, 
who  was  slain  in  fair  combat  by  the  hands  of  Balin ; 
and  his  lady  Colombe,  who  for  deep  love  and  sorrow 
slew  herself  with  her  true  love's  sword.  May  lovers 
henceforth  make  this  their  place  of  pilgrimage." 


CHAPTER  II. 

HOW   ARTHUR   TRIUMPHED  OVER   THE   KINGS. 

While  the  tomb  was  being  erected  over  the  dead 
knight  and  his  love.  Merlin  appeared  at  the  scene. 

"  You  have  done  yourself  great  harm,"  he  said 
to  Balin.     "  Why  saved  you  not  this  lady  ?  " 

"  By  the  faith  of  my  body,  I  could  not,"  said 
Balin,  "  she  slew  herself  so  suddenly." 

"  This  must  I  tell  you,"  said  Merlin.  "  Because 
of  the  death  of  this  lady  you  shall  strike  a  stroke 
the  most  dolorous  that  ever  man  struck,  except 
the  stroke  of  our  Lord;  for  you  shall  hurt  the 
truest  knight  and  the  man  of  most  worship  that 
now  lives,  and  through  that  stroke  three  kingdoms 
shall  be  in  great  poverty,  misery,  and  wretchedness 
for  twelve  years,  and  the  knight  you  will  hurt  shall 
not  be  whole  of  his  wound  for  many  years." 

"  If  I  knew  that  it  were  true  as  you  say,"  an- 


66  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

swered  Balin,  "  I  would  do  such  a  rash  deed  as  to 
slay  myself  to  make  you  a  liar.  But  the  future 
must  reveal  itself.     I  trust  no  man's  predictions." 

Thereupon  Merlin  suddenly  vanished  away,  leav- 
ing them  in  deep  marvel  at  his  coming  and  going. 
Soon  after  Balin  and  his  brother  took  leave  of  King 
Mark. 

"  First,"  said  the  king,  "  tell  me  your  name." 

"  You  see  he  bears  two  swords,"  said  Balan. 
"  You  may  call  him  the  knight  with  the  two 
swords." 

And  so  King  ^lark  rode  towards  Camelot,  and 
the  brothers  towards  Terrabil.  As  they  rode.  Mer- 
lin again  met  them,  but  now  in  disguise. 

"  Whither  do  vou  ride  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Why  should  we  tell  you  that  ? "  said  the 
knights. 

"  You  need  not,  for  I  know  already.  And  I 
can  tell  you  this.  You  will  gain  no  advantage 
over  King  Ryons  without  my  counsel." 

"  Ah  !  vou  are  Merlin,"  said  Balin.  "  Then  we 
shall  be  glad  of  your  counsel." 

"  Come  then  with  me.     But  look  that  vou  brace 

ft/ 

yourself  to  knightly  deeds,  for  you  will  have  great 
need  to  do  so." 

"As  for  that,"  said  Balin,  "we  will  do  what  we 
caii.     Xo  knight  can  do  more." 

Then  Merlin  lodged  them  in  a  leafy  wood  beside 
the  highway,  where  thoy  rested  till  it  was  near 
midnight.  He  then  p wakened  them  and  bade  them 
rise  and  make  ready,  for  the  king  they  sought  was 
near  at  hand.  He  had  stolen  away  from  his  host 
with  threescore  of  his  best  knights  to  visit  a  lady. 


HOW  ARTHUR  TRIUMPHED  OVER  THE  KINGS.     67 


6i 


How  shall  we  know  the  king?  "   asked  Balin. 
Hereby  is  a  narrow  way  where  you  shall  meet 
him,"  said  Merlin. 

They  followed  him  to  the  place,  where  they  lay 
in  ambush  till  the  rattle  of  harness  showed  that 
the  party  approached.  Then,  at  IVIerlin's  sugges- 
tion, the  two  knights  rode  from  their  covert  and 
assailed  the  king  at  the  head  of  his  followers,  wound- 
ing him  sorely  and  hurling  him  to  the  ground. 
They  then,  in  the  darkness,  attacked  the  array  of 
knights  with  the  fury  of  lions,  slaving  more  than 
forty  of  them,  and  putting  the  remnant  to  flight. 

This  done,  they  returned  to  King  Ryons  where 
he  lay  helpless,  and  with  a  threat  of  death  forced 
him  to  yield  himself  to  their  grace. 

"  Valiant  knights,  slay  me  not,"  he  asked.  "  You 
may  profit  by  my  life,  but  can  win  nothing  by 
mv  death." 

"  There  you  speak  truly,"  said  they,  and  lifting 
him  carefully  they  placed  him  on  a  horse-litter 
for  conveyance  to  Camelot. 

Then  Merlin  vanished  and  came  to  King  Arthur, 
whom  he  told  that  his  greatest  enemy  was  van- 
quished and  taken. 

^^  By  whom  ?  '*   asked  the  king. 

"By  two  of  the  most  valorous  knights  in  your 
realm.     To-morrow  vou  shall  learn  who  thev  are." 

In  good  time  Balin  and  his  brother  came  with 
the  wounded  king  and  delivered  him  to  the  porters 
at  the  gates,  charging  them  to  bear  him  to  King 
Arthur.  Then  they  turned  again  and  departed 
in  the  dawning  of  the  day. 

When  King  Ryons  was  brought  to  the  court, 
Arthur  received  him  graciously. 


68  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 


"  Sir  king,"  he  said,  "  you  are  heartily  welcome. 
By  what  adventure  came  you  hither  ?  " 

"  By  a  hard  one,"  said  the  captive,  "  as  you  well 
may  see." 

"  Who  won  you  ?  "  asked  Arthur. 

"  The  knight  with  the  two  swords  and  his 
brother,"  said  Ryons.  "  And  knights  of  marvellous 
prowess  they  are." 

"  I  know  them  not,"  said  Arthur,  "  but  none  the 
less  am  I  deeply  beholden  to  them." 

"  I  shall  tel*  you,"  said  Merlin.  "  One  of  these 
knights  was  Balin,  he  that  won  the  sword;  the 
other  was  Balan,  his  brother,  and  as  good  a  knight. 
And  it  is  the  most  sorrowful  thing  that  tongue 
can  say  that  neither  of  these  brave  knights  shall 
live  long  to  win  the  fame  of  which  they  are  so 
worthy." 

"  Alas !  "  said  Arthur,  "  if  that  be  so,  it  is  indeed 
a  great  pity.  I  am  much  beholden  to  Balin,  for  he 
has  highly  redeemed  the  despite  he  did  me.  I  have 
not  deserved  such  good  service  at  his  hands." 

"  He  shall  do  more  for  you,  and  that  soon,"  said 
Merlin.  "  I  must  now  depart,  for  I  have  duties 
elsewhere;  but  before  I  go  let  me  warn  you  to 
prepare  your  forces  for  battle  at  once.  To-morrow 
before  noon  you  will  be  set  upon  by  a  great  host, 
led  by  Nero,  King  Ryons's  brother.  Therefore  make 
all  haste  for  your  defence." 

Merlin's  departure  was  for  a  purpose  which  he 
told  not  to  the  king.  He  well  knew  that  King 
Lot  of  Orkney,  Arthur's  bitterest  foe,  was  march- 
ing to  join  Nero  with  a  powerful  host,  and  foresaw 
that  if  they  fell  together  on  King  Arthur  he  and 


HOW  ARTHUR  TRIUMPHED  OVER  THE  KINGS.     69 

all  his  army  would  be  destroyed.  The  shrewd  magi- 
cian thereupon  repaired  to  King  Lot,  and  held 
him  with  idle  tales  of  prophecy  till  Nero  and  his 
people  were  destroyed. 

For  between  Nero  and  Arthur  a  vigorous  battle 
was  fought,  in  which  many  knights  won  honor  and 
renown,  while  King  Arthur  with  his  own  hand  slew 
twenty  knights  and  maimed  forty.  But  Balin  and 
his  brother  Balan,  who  came  in  during  the  fight, 
did  such  mighty  deeds  of  prowess  that  all  who  beheld 
them  said  they  fought  like  angels  from  heaven  or 
devils  from  hell,  while  Arthur  beheld  their  prowess 
with  wonder  and  delight,  and  vowed  that  he  owed 
to  them  his  victory. 

The  combat,  which  took  place  at  the  Castle  Ter- 
rabil,  ended  in  the  complete  defeat  of  Nero,  and 
the  destruction  of  nearly  all  his  host.  Word  of 
this  disaster  was  brought  to  King  Lot,  where  he 
lay  resting  with  his  army. 

"  Alas !  '^  he  said,  "  why  did  I  let  myself  be  be- 
guiled? Had  I  been  there  no  host  under  heaven 
could  have  matched  us.  That  false  prattler,  with 
his  prophecy,  has  mocked  and  befooled  me.  But 
what  shall  now  be  done?  Shall  we  treat  with 
Arthur,  or  is  it  wise  to  fight  him  with  half  an 
armv  ?  " 

"  His  men  are  weary  with  fighting  and  we  are 
fresh,''  said  a  knight.  "  Now  is  the  time  to  set 
upon  him.'' 

"  So  be  it,  then.  And  I  hope  that  every  knight 
will  bear  himself  in  the  fray  as  well  as  L  for  it  is 
no  laggard's  task  we  have  now  before  us/' 

Then   with  waving  banners   and   serried   spears 


70  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

they  assailed  Arthur's  weary  host.  But  the  Round 
Table  Knights,  with  the  aid  of  the  two  valiant 
brothers  Balin  and  Balan,  roused  themselves  vigor- 
ously to  the  fray,  and  bore  all  before  them,  so  that 
only  where  King  Lot  himself  fought  did  his  host 
hold  its  ground.  But  where  he  battled  in  the  van 
all  his  men  seemed  borne  up  by  his  valor,  and  not 
a  knight  met  him  but  was  overthrown  or  forced 
back  by  his  prowess. 

•  Then  King  Pellinore  pushed  through  the  press 
of  knights  and  horses,  and  struck  a  mighty  stroke 
at  King  Lot  as  he  fought  at  the  head  of  his  host. 
The  sword  failed  in  its  aim,  but  struck  the  neck 
of  the  king's  horse,  so  that  the  wounded  animal 
fell  to  the  ground  with  its  rider.  Then  Pellinore 
struck  so  furious  a  stroke  that  his  sword  cut  King 
Lot's  helmet  in  twain,  and  cleft  his  head  to  the 
brows,  hurling  him  lifeless  to  the  earth. 

Seeing  their  king  thus  slain,  all  the  host  of  Ork- 
ney turned  and  fled,  and  great  was  the  slaughter 
in  the  pursuit.  That  day  there  fell  in  all  twelve 
kings,  who  fought  with  Lot  and  Nero,  and  all  these 
were  buried  in  the  church  of  Saint  Stevens  at 
Camelot. 

Of  the  tombs  that  were  made  for  these  kings  that 
of  King  Lot  was  most  richly  adorned,  and  King 
Arthur  had  a  tomb  prepared  for  himself  beside  it. 
For  this  he  had  made  twelve  images  of  brass  and 
copper,  which  were  gilt  with  gold.  These  repre- 
sented the  twelve  kings,  and  each  of  them  held  a 
taper  of  wax,  that  burned  night  and  day.  An  image 
of  King  Arthur  was  also  made,  in  the  form  of 
a  statue  that  stood  above  the  twelve  kings  with  a 


HOW  ARTHUR  TRIUMPHED  OVER  THE  KINGS.     71 

drawn  sword  in  its  hand,  while  the  faces  of  the 
twelve  images  were  those  of  men  that  had  been 
overcome.  All  these  figures  were  made  by  Merlin 
through  his  subtle  craft. 

"  When  I  am  dead,"  he  said  to  the  king,  "  these 
tapers  shall  burn  no  longer.  Then  the  end  will 
be  near,  and  the  adventures  of  the  Sangreal  shall 
be  achieved." 

Much  more  he  told  the  king  of  the  strange  events 
that  would  come  to  pass  in  the  future  time;  and 
further  he  said, — 

"Look  well  to  the  scabbard  of  Excalibur.  You 
shall  lose  no  blood  while  you  wear  this  scabbard, 
even  though  you  be  covered  with  wounds.^' 

Thus  admonished,  Arthur,  in  loving  trust,  took 
the  scabbard  to  Morgan  le  Fay,  his  sister,  and  gave 
it  into  her  care  to  keep  for  him.  Much  did  he  peril 
in  doing  so,  for .  Morgan  was  false  at  heart,  and 
proved  recreant  to  her  trust,  from  love  for  a  knight 
named  Accolan,  whom  she  cherished  in  her  soul 
beyond  her  husband,  while  she  had  grown  to  hate 
her  brother.  She  made,  by  enchantment,  another 
scabbard  like  the  one  given  her  in  trust,  and  gave 
the  scabbard  of  Excalibur  to  her  love.  By  this 
deed  of  treachery  she  hoped  in  her  false  soul  to  bring 
King  Arthur  to  his  death.  And  well-nigh  she 
succeeded  therein,  as  shall  be  told  hereafter. 


72  THE  DEEDS  OF  BAUN. 


CHAPTER  III. 

HOW  BALIN  GAVE  THE  DOLOROUS  STROKE. 

A  DAY  or  two  after  King  Arthur  had  placed  the 
magical  scabbard  in  the  hands  of  his  evil-thinking 
sister,  he  grew  unwell,  and  had  his  tent  pitched  in 
a  meadow  near  Camelot  for  the  benefit  of  the  fresh 
air  and  the  green  verdure.  Here  he  sought  in  vain 
to  sleep,  lying  long  in  uneasy  wakefulness.  As 
he  thus  lay  he  heard  a  horse  approaching,  and  look- 
ing through  the  door  of  his  tent,  beheld  a  knight, 
who  lamented  deeply  as  he  came. 

"  Halt !  fair  sir,"  cried  Arthur.  "  Tell  me  the 
cause  of  vour  sorrow." 

"  You  can  little  aid  me,"  said  the  knight,  and 
he  rode  onward  without  further  answer. 

Soon  afterward  Balin  rode  up,  and  on  seeing  King 
Arthur  sprang  from  his  horse  and  saluted  him. 
By  my  head,  you  are  welcome,"  said  the  king. 

A  knight  has  just  ridden  past  here  moaning  sadly, 
but  has  declined  to  tell  me  the  cause  of  his  sorrow. 
I  desire  of  your  courtesy  to  bring  that  knight  to 
me,  either  by  force  or  good-will,  for  I  wish  greatly 
to  know  why  he  so  deeply  grieves." 

"  That  is  little  to  what  I  should  be  glad  to  do 
for  you,"  said  Balin.  He  rode  on  apace,  and  ere 
long  found  the  knight  in  a  neighboring  forest  in 
company  with  a  damsel. 

"  Sir  knight,"  he  said,  "  you  must  come  with  me 
to  King  Arthur.  He  demands  to  see  you  and  learn 
the  cause  of  your  sorrow." 


HOW  BALIN  GAVE  THE  DOLOROUS  STROKE.      73 


"  That  I  shall  not  do/^  said  the  knight.  "  It  will 
injure  me  greatly,  and  do  no  good  to  you  or  him.^^ 

"  Then  you  must  make  ready  to  fight,"  said  Balin. 
"  I  have  my  order  to  bring  you  willingly  or  by 
force,  and  I  should  be  loath  to  have  a  fight  witlv 
you.'^ 

"  Will  you  be  my  warrant  if  I  go  with  you  ?  '^ 
asked  the  knight.  "  For  truly  you  lead  me  into 
danger." 

"  Yes.  And  I  shall  die  rather  than  let  you  come 
to  harm,  if  it  is  in  my  power  to  avert  it." 

This  said,  the  knight  turned  and  rode  back  with 
Balin,  accompanied  by  the  damsel.  But  as  they 
reached  King  Arthur's  pavilion  a  strange  thing 
happened.  A  spear  was  thrust  through  the  body 
of  the  knight,  inflicting  a  mortal  wound.  Yet 
the  hand  and  form  of  him  who  did  this  fatal  deed 
remained  unseen. 

"  Alas ! "  said  the  knight,  "  it  is  as  I  feared. 
Under  your  conduct  and  guard  I  have  been  slain 
by  a  traitorous  knight  called  Garlon,  who  through 
enchantment  rides  invisible,  and  does  such  deeds 
as  this.  My  day  is  done.  As  you  are  a  true  knight, 
I  charge  you  to  take  my  horse,  which  is  better  than 
yours,  and  ride  with  this  damsel  on  the  quest  which 
for  me  is  at  an  end.  Follow  as  she  will  lead,  and 
revenge  my  death  when  best  you  may." 

"  That  shall  I  do,"  said  Balin.  "Upon  the  honor 
of  knighthood  I  vow  to  follow  your  quest,  and  to 
revenge  you  on  this  false  foe,  or  die  as  you  have 
done." 

Then,  leaving  the  king,  Balin  rode  with  the 
damsel,  who  bore  with  her  the  truncheon  of  the 


74  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

spear  with  which  the  knight  had  been  killed.  After 
they  had  gone.  King  Arthur  had  the  knight  buried 
richly  and  honorably,  and  had  written  upon  the 
tomb  his  name,  Herleus  de  Berbeus,  and  how  he 
came  to  his  death  through  the  treachery  of  the 
invisible  knight  Garlon. 

Meanwhile  Balin  and  the  damsel  rode  onward 
until  they  found  themselves  in  a  forest.  Here 
they  met  a  knight  engaged  in  hunting,  who  asked 
Balin  why  he  showed  such  grief. 

"  That  I  do  not  care  to  tell,''  said  Balin. 

"  You  should  if  I  were  armed  as  vou  are,  for 
your  answer  is  too  curt  to  be  courteous.^' 

"  My  story  is  not  worth  fighting  for,''  answered 
Balin.  "  I  will  tell  you  if  you  so  greatly  desire  to 
know.''  He  thereupon  told  him  the  fatal  event 
which  had  just  occurred,  and  that  he  mourned 
the  untimely  death  of  the  knight  who  had  been 
so  treacherously  slain. 

"  This  is  a  sad  story,"  said  the  knight.  "  As  I 
am  a  true  cavalier  I  will  go  with  you  on  your  quest, 
and  leave  you  not  while  life  lasts." 

Then  he  went  with  Balin  to  his  inn,  armed  him- 
self, and  rode  forth  with  him.  But  as  they  passed 
by  a  hermitage  near  a  churchyard  the  invisible 
knight  Garlon  came  again,  and  smote  Balin's  com- 
panion through  the  body,  as  he  had  done  to  Herleus 
before. 

"  Alas  !  "  cried  the  knight.  "  I  too  am  slain  by 
this  invisible  traitor,  who  does  murder  at  will  under 
cover  of  enchantment." 

"  It  is  not  the  first  despite  the  wretch  has  done 
me,"  cried  Balin.     "  Could  I  see  him  I  would  soon 


HOW  BALIN  GAVE  THE  DOLOROUS  STROKE.      75 

repay  this  outrage.  I  am  bound  by  the  honor  of 
a  knight  to  a  double  revenge  on  this  unworthy 
caitiff.^' 

He  and  the  hermit  thereupon  buried  the  slain 
knight,  Perin  de  Mountbeliard,  under  a  rich  stone 
in  a  noble  tomb,  inscribing  thereon  the  cause  of 
his  death. 

In  the  morning  the  knight  and  damsel  proceeded 
on  their  quest,  and  in  good  time  found  themselves 
before  a  castle,  which  rose  high  and  broad  by  the 
roadside.  Here  Balin  alighted,  and  he  and  the 
damsel  turned  towards  the  castle,  with  purpose  to 
enter.  But  as  Balin  entered  in  advance  the  port- 
cullis was  suddenly  let  fall  behind  him,  cutting  him 
off  from  his  companion.  Immediately  a  number 
of  men  assailed  the  damsel  with  drawn  swords. 

When  Balin  saw  this  treacherous  proceeding  his 
soul  burned  within  him.  What  to  do  at  first  he 
knew  not.  Then  he  ran  hastily  into  the  gate  tower, 
and  leaped,  all  armed,  over  the  wall  into  the  ditch. 
Finding  himself  unhurt,  he  drew  his  sword  and 
rushed  furiously  upon  the  armed  men  who  sur- 
rounded his  companion. 

"  Traitors  and  dogs  !  "  he  cried.  "  If  you  are 
eager  for  fight,  I  will  give  you  your  fill.'^ 

"  We  cannot  fight  you,"  they  answered.  "  We 
do  nothing  but  keep  the  old  cfistom  of  the  castle." 

"What  is  that?"  asked  Balin.  "It  is  an  ill 
custom,  methinks,  that  thus  displays  itself." 

"  Our  lady  is  sick,  and  has  lain  so  for  many 
years:  Nothing  will  cure  her  but  a  dish  full  of 
blood  from  a  maid  and  a  king's  daughter.  It  is. 
therefore,    the  custom  that  no   damsel   shall   pass 


76  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 


this  way  without  leaving  a  silver  dish  full  of  blood/* 
That  is  for  the  damsel  to  say/'  replied  Balin. 

If  she  chooses  to  bleed  for  the  good  of  your  lady 
she  may,  but  her  life  shall  not  be  taken  while 
mine  lasts/^ 

The  damsel  thereupon  yielded  a  dish  full  of  her 
blood,  but  it  helped  not  the  lady.  She  and  Balin 
rested  in  the  castle  for  the  night,  where  they  had 
good  cheer.  In  the  morning  they  proceeded  again 
on  their  quest. 

Three  or  four  days  now  passed  without  adven- 
ture. At  the  end  of  that  time  the  knight  and 
damsel  found  lodging  in  the  house  of  a  rich  gentle- 
man, the  owner  of  a  fair  estate.  As  they  sat  at 
supper  Balin  was  moved  by  the  grievous  complaints 
of  one  who  sat  beside  him,  and  asked  his  host  the 
cause  of  this  lamentation. 

"  It  is  this,"  said  the  host.  "  I  was  lately  at  a 
tournament,  where  I  twice  overthrew  a  knight  who 
is  brother  to  King  Pellam.  He  threatened  to 
revenge  his  defeat  on  my  best  friend,  and  has  done 
so  by  wounding  my  son.  The  hurt  is  a  grievous 
one,  and  cannot  be  cured  till  I  have  some  of  that 
knight's  blood;  but  how  to  find  him  I  know  not, 
for  his  name  is  unknown  to  me,  and  he  always  rides 
invisible." 

"  Aha !  "  cried  Bdin,  "  has  that  treacherous  dog 
been  at  his  murderous  work  again?  I  know  his 
name  well.  It  is  Garlon,  and  he  has  latelv  slain 
two  knightly  companions  of  mine  in  the  same  base 
manner.  I  should  rather  meet  with  that  invisible 
wretch  than  have  all  the  gold  in  this  kingdom. 
Let  me  see  him  once  and  he  or  I  dies." 


HOW  BALIN  GAVE  THE  DOLOROtjS  STROKE.      77 

"  I  shall  tell  you  what  to  do,  then,"  said  the 
host.  "  King  Pellam  of  Listeneise  has  announced  a 
great  feast,  to  be  given  within  twenty  days,  to 
which  no  knight  can  come  unless  he  brings  with 
him  his  w4fe  or  his  love.  That  false  knight,  your 
enemy  and  mine,  will  be  there,  and  visible  to 
human  eyes.'' 

"  Then,  as  I  am  a  true  knight,"  cried  Balin, 
'^you  shall  have  of  his  blood  enough  to  twice  heal 
your  son's  wound,  if  I  die  in  the  getting  it." 

"  We  shall  set  forward  to-morrow,"  said  the  host, 
"  and  I  hope  it  may  be  as  you  say." 

In  the  morning  they  rode  towards  Listeneise, 
which  it  took  them  fifteen  days  to  reach,  and  where 
the  great  feast  began  on  the  day  of  their  arrival. 
Leaving  their  horses  in  the  stables,  they  sought 
to  enter  the  castle,  but  Balin's  companion  was  re- 
fused admittance,  as  he  had  no  lady  with  him. 
Balin,  however,  having  the  damsel  with  him,  was 
at  once  received,  and  taken  to  a  chamber  where  he 
laid  aside  his  armor  and  put  on  rich  robes  which 
the  attendants  brought  him.  They  wished  him  to 
leave  his  sword,  but  to  this  he  objected. 

"  It  is  the  custom  of  my  country,"  he  said,  "  for 
a  knight  always  to  keep  his  weapon  with  him.  This 
custom  shall  I  keep,  or  depart  as  I  came." 

Hearing  this,  they  objected  no  longer  to  his  wear- 
ing his  sword,  and  he  thereupon  entered  the  feasting 
chambers  with  his  lady  companion.  Here  he  found 
himself  among  many  worshipful  knights  and  fair 
ladies. 

Balin,  after  looking  carefully  round  him,  asked 
a  guest, — 


78  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

"  Is  there  not  a  knight  in  this  good  company 
named  Garlon  ?  " 

"  Yes.  Yonder  knight  is  he,  the  one  with  the 
dark  face.  And  let  me  tell  you  that  there  is  no 
more  marvellous  knight  living.  He  has  the  power 
of  going  invisible,  and  has  destroyed  many  good 
knights  unseen." 

"  I  have  heard  of  this,''  said  Balin.  "  A  marvel- 
lous gift,  indeed.  This,  then,  is  Garlon?  Thanks 
for  vour  information." 

Then  Balin  considered  anxiously  what  had  best 
be  done.  "  If  I  slay  him  here  my  own  life  will 
pay  the  forfeit,"  he  said  to  himself.  "  But  if  I 
let  him  escape  me  now  it  may  be  long  before  I 
have  such  an  opportunity,  and  in  the  meanwhile 
he  may  do  much  harm." 

As  he  stood  thus  reflecting,  with  his  eyes  fixed 
on  Garlon's  face,  the  latter  observed  his  close  and 
stern  regard.  In  haughty  anger  he  came  to  him 
and  smote  him  on  the  face  with  the  back  of  his 
hand. 

"  Sir  knight,"  he  said,  "  take  that  for  your  im- 
pertinent stare.  Now  eat  your  meat,  and  do  what 
you  came  here  for.  Hereafter  learn  to  use  your 
eyes  to  better  purpose." 

"  You  dog !  "  cried  Balin,  "  this  is  not  your  first 
insult  to  me.  You  bid  me  do  what  I  came  for. 
It  is  this."  As  he  spoke  he  rose  furiously  from 
his  seat,  fircw  his  sword,  and  with  one  fiorco  blow 
clove  Garlon's  head  to  the  shoulders. 

"That  is  mv  errand  here,"  cried  Balin  to  the 
guests.  "  Now  give  me  the  truncheon,"  he  said 
to  the  damsel,  "  with  which  he  slew  your  knight." 


HOW  BALIN  GAVE  THE  DOLOROUS  STROKE.   79 

She  gave  it  to  him,  and  Balin  thrust  it  through 
Garlon^s  body,  exclaiming, — 

"  With  that  truncheon  you  killed  a  good  knight, 
and  with  this  blow  I  revenge  him." 

Then  he  called  his  late  host,  who  had  by  this 
gained  entrance  to  the  feast,  and  said, — 

"  Here  lies  your  foe.  Take  with  you  enough  of 
his  blood  to  heal  your  son." 

All  this  had  happened  so  quickly  that  none  had 
time  to  interfere,  but  the  knights  now  sprang 
hastily  from  their  seats,  and  rushed  from  the  hall 
for  their  weapons,  that  they  might  revenge  their 
slain  companion.  Among  them  rose  King  Pellam, 
crying  furiously, — 

"  Why  have  you  killed  my  brother !  Villain  and 
murderer,  you  shall  die  for  this !  " 

"  Here  I  stand,"  said  Balin.  "If  vou  wish 
revenge,  seek  it  yourself.     I  stand  in  my  defence." 

"  It  is  well  said,"  cried  the  king.  "  Stand  back, 
all.  For  the  love  I  bore  my  brother  I  will  take 
his  revenge  on  myself.  Let  no  one  interfere.  This 
murderer  is  mine." 

Then  King  Pellam  snatched  up  a  mighty  weapon 
and  struck  fiercely  at  Balin,  who  threw  up  his  own 
sword  in  guard.  He  was  in  time  to  save  his  head, 
but  the  treacherous  blade  went  into  pieces  beneath 
the  stroke,  leaving  him  unarmed  before  the  furious 
king. 

Balin,  finding  himself  thus  in  danger  of  death, 
ran  into  a  neighboring  chamber  in  search  of  a 
weapon,  closely  pursued  by  his  enraged  adversary. 
Finding  none  there,  he  ran  on  from  chamber  to 
chamber,   seeking   a   weapon   in   vain,   with    King 


80  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

Pellam  raging  like  a  maddened  lion  behind  him. 

At  length  Balin  entered  a  rich  and  marvellously 
adorned  chamber,  within  which  was  a  bed  covered 
with  cloth  of  gold  of  the  noblest  texture,  and  in 
this  bed  a  person  lay.  Near  by  was  a  table  with 
a  top  of  solid  gold  and  four  curiously-shaped  pillars 
of  silver  for  its  legs,  while  upon  it  stood  a  mighty 
spear,  whose  handle  was  strangely  wrought,  as 
though  it  had  been  made  for  a  mighty  king. 

But  of  all  this  marvel  and  magnificence  Balin 
saw  only  the  spear,  which  he  seized  at  once  with 
a  strong  grip,  and  turned  with  it  to  face  his  adver- 
sary. King  Pellam  was  close  at  hand,  with  sword 
uplifted  for  a  fatal  stroke,  but  as  he  rushed  in 
blind  rage  forward  Balin  pierced  his  body  with  the 
spear,  hurling  him  insensible  to  the  floor. 

Little  dreamed  the  fated  warrior  of  all  that  thrust 
portended.  The  spear  he  used  was  a  magical 
weapon,  and  prophecy  had  long  declared  that  the 
deadliest  evil  should  come  from  its  use.  King 
Pellam  had  no  sooner  fallen  beneath  that  fatal 
thrust  than  all  the  castle  rocked  and  tottered  as  if 
a  mighty  earthquake  had  passed  beneath  its  walls, 
and  the  air  was  filled  with  direful  sounds.  Then 
down  crushed  the  massive  roof,  and  with  a  sound 
like  that  of  the  trumpet-blast  of  disaster  the  strong 
walls  rent  asunder,  and  rushed  downward  in  a 
torrent  of  ruin.  One  moment  that  stately  pile 
lifted  its  proud  battlements  in  majesty  toward  the 
skies;  the  next  it  lay  prostrate  as  though  it  had 
been  stricken  by  the  hand  of  God  to  the  earth. 

Men  say  who  saw  it  that  when  fell  that  fatal 
blow — thereafter  to  be  known  in  history  and  legend 


THE  FATE  OF  BALIN  AND  BALAN.  81 

as  the  "  dolorous  stroke  " — the  castle  shivered  like 
a  forest  struck  by  a  strong  wind,  and  then  fell  with 
a  mighty  crash,  burying  hundreds  beneath  its  walls. 
Among  these  were  Balin  and  King  Pellam,  who 
lay  there  for  three  days  without  aid  or  relief,  in 
deep  agony  and  peril  of  death. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE    FATE    OF    BALIN    AND    BALAN. 

At  the  end  of  the  three  days  came  Merlin,  who 
rescued  Balin  from  under  the  ruined  walls. 

"Your  horse  is  dead,"  he  said,  "but  I  have 
brought  you  another,  and  the  sword  you  won  in 
Arthur's  hall.  My  counsel  is  that  you  ride  out  of 
this  country  with  all  speed;  for  little  you  know 
the  evil  you  have  done.'^ 

"  The  damsel  I  brought  hither  must  go  with 
me,''  said  Balin. 

"  She  shall  never  go  farther,"  answered  Merlin. 
"The  damsel  is  dead,  and  with  her  many  a  good 
knight  and  fair  lady.  That  blow  of  yours  was  the 
fatalest  ever  struck,  as  you  may  sec  in  the  ruin 
of  this  castle,  and  as  vou  will  see  further  when 
you  ride  abroad  through  this  distracted  country." 

"  What  have  I  done  ?  "  cried  Balin.  "  How  could 
I  know  that  such  dread  disaster  dwelt  within  that 
spear?  Who  was  he  that  lay  within  the  bed,  and 
what  does  this  strange  thing  portend  ?  " 

6 


82  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

"You  did  but  what  destiny  commanded,"  said 
Merlin.  "  It  is  fate,  not  you,  that  is  at  fault.  Let 
me  tell  you  the  meaning  of  this  mighty  and  terrible 
event,  which  destiny  has  thrown  into  your  hands. 
He  who  lay  in  that  rich  bed  was  Joseph  of  Ari- 
mathea,  who  came  years  ago  into  this  land,  and 
bore  with  him  part  of  the  blood  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  And  that  spear  was  the  same  fatal  weapon 
with  which  Longius  smote  our  Lord  to  the  heart. 
King  Pellam  was  nigh  akin  to  Joseph  of  Arimathea, 
and  great  pity  is  it  of  his  hurt,  for  that  stroke  has 
filled  the  land  with  trouble,  grief,  and  mourning. 
As  for  King  Pellam,  he  shall  lie  for  many  years 
in  sore  pain  from  the  wound  you  dealt  him,  and 
shall  never  be  whole  again  until  Galahad,  the  high 
prince,  shall  heal  him  when  he  comes  this  way  in 
the  quest  of  the  Sangreal." 

These  words  said,  Balin  mounted,  his  horse,  and 
departed  in  deep  grief  for  the  harm  he  had  wrought, 
saying  to  Merlin  as  he  left,  "  In  this  world  we 
shall  never  meet  again,  for  I  feel  that  destiny 
has  marked  me  for  its  victim."  But  little  knew  he 
the  full  effects  of  that  fatal  blow  till  he  rode  forth 
through  the  land.  Then  as  he  went  through  the 
once  fair  cities  and  fertile  country  he  saw  the  people 
lying  dead  on  every  side,  and  cities  and  lands  in 
ruin  together.  Few  remained  alive  of  all  the  in- 
habitants of  that  populous  realm,  and  as  he  passed 
these  cried  out  to  him, — 

"  Oh,  Balin,  terrible  is  the  harm  that  thou  hast 
done  to  this  innocent  land !  Throe  countries  lie 
destroyed  through  the  dolorous  stroke  thou  gavest 
unto   King  Pellam.     Woe  to  thee  for  this  dread 


THE  FATE  OF  BALIN  AND  BALAN.  83 

deed!  Thou  hast  escaped  alive,  yet  doubt  not  but 
the  vengeance  of  heaven  will  fall  on  thee  at  last ! '' 

Great  was  the  grief  and  suffering  with  which 
the  good  knight  heard  these  words,  and  glad  at  heart 
was  he  when  at  length  he  left  behind  him  that  land 
of  woe  and  ruin,  to  which  his  innocent  hand  had 
wrought  such  deadly  harm. 

But  as  he  rode  onward  the  feeling  came  to  him 
that  his  end  was  at  hand,  though  this  grieved  him 
little,  for  he  felt  as  one  set  apart  to  do  heaven's 
work  of  destiny.  And  for  eight  days  thereafter  he 
rode  over  many  leagues  of  strange  country  without 
adventure. 

At  length  came  a  day  when  he  saw  before  him, 
by  the  roadside,  a  cross,  on  which  in  letters  of  gold 
was  written,  "  It  is  not  wise  for  any  knight  alone 
to  ride  towards  this  castle."  Then  he  saw  a  white- 
haired  old  man  approach,  who  said, — 

"  Balin  le  Savage,  you  pass  your  bounds  to  come 
this  way.  Turn  again,  if  you  would  leave  this  place 
in  safety.*' 

With  these  words  he  vanished,  and  as  he  did  so 
there  rang  on  the  air  a  bugle-blast  like  that  blown 
for  the  death  of  a  beast  of  the  chase. 

"  That  blast  is  blown  for  me,*'  said  Balin.  "  I 
am  the  prize  of  the  invisible  powers.  I  am  not 
yet  dead,  but  they  claim  me  for  their  own." 

As  he  stood  lost  in  deep  thought  there  came 
trooping  from  the  castle,  which  he  now  saw  in  the 
distance,  a  hundred  fair  ladies  and  many  knights, 
who  welcomed  him  with  great  show  of  gladness, 
and  led  him  with  them  to  the  castle,  where  he  found 
dancing  and  minstrelsy,  and  all  manner  of  sport 


84  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

and  pleasure.     As  he  stood  observing  all  this  the 
chief  lady  of  the  castle  said  to  him, — 

"  Knight  01  the  two  swords,  there  is  a  custom 
of  this  castle  which  all  who  come  here  must  keep. 
Hereby  is  an  island  which  is  held  by  a  knight,  and 
no  man  can  pass  this  way  unless  he  joust  with  him." 

"  That  is  an  unhappy  custom,"  said  Balin. 
'^  Why  should  every  traveller  be  forced  to  fight  ?  " 

"  You  shall  have  to  do  with  but  one  knight," 
said  the  lady. 

"  That  troubles  me  little,"  said  Balin.  ''  I  and 
my  horse  are  both  weary  from  our  journey,  but  I 
am  not  weary  at  heart,  and,  if  fight  1  must,  1  am 
ready  to  do  it  now.  If  death  comes  to  me,  it  will 
not  come  unwelcome." 

"  Your  shield  does  not  seem  to  be  a  good  one," 
said  a  knight.     "  Let  me  lend  you  a  larger  one." 

Balin  took  the  proffered  shield  and  left  his  own, 
and  rode  to  the  island,  where  he  and  his  horse  were 
taken  over  in  a  great  boat.  On  reaching  the  island 
shore  he  met  a  damsel,  who  said  in  sorrowful 
accents, — 

"  0  Knight  Balin,  why  have  you  left  your  own 
shield  ?  Alas !  you  have  put  yourself  in  great 
danger.  Had  you  borne  your  own  you  would  have 
been  known.  It  is  a  great  pity  that  a  knight  of 
your  prowess  and  hardiness  should  fight  unknown. 

"  1  repent  that  1  ever  came  into  this  country, 
said  Balin.  "  But  now  that  1  am  here  I  shall  not 
turn  again,  and  whatever  comes  to  me,  be  it  life  or 
death,  I  shall  take  it  as  my  lot." 

Then  he  mounted  and  rode  into  the  island,  in 
whose  midst  he  saw  a  castle,  from  which  rode  a 


THE  FATE  OF  BALIN  AND  BALAN.  85 

knight  wearing  red  armor,  and  mounted  on  a  horse 
which  bore  trappings  of  the  same  color.  The  war- 
riors looked  at  each  other,  but  neither  knew  the 
other,  though  the  two  swords  that  Balin  wore  should 
have  revealed  him,  had  not  he  borne  a  shield  of 
strange  device. 

Then,  couching  their  spears,  the  hostile  knights 
rode  together  at  the  full  speed  of  their  war-horses, 
meeting  with  such  mighty  force  and  equal  fortune 
that  both  horses  went  down,  and  both  knights  were 
hurled  to  the  earth,  where  they  lay  in  a  swoon. 

Balin  was  sorely  bruised  and  weary  with  travel, 
and  the  red  knight  was  the  first  to  gain  his  feet. 
But  as  he  advanced  with  drawn  sword,  Balin  sprang 
up  and  met  him  with  ready  shield,  returning  his 
blow  with  such  force  that  he  cut  through  his  shield 
and  cleft. his  helmet. 

And  now  began  the  mightiest  battle  that  island 
had  ever  beheld.  As  they  fought,  Balin  looked  at 
the  castle  and  saw  that  its  towers  were  full  of  ladies 
who  were  watching  the  deadly  contest,  and  who 
applauded  each  blow  as  though  this  combat  was 
meant  for  their  sport.  The  valiant  knights  fought 
till  their  breath  failed,  and  then  took  rest  and 
fought  again,  until  each  was  sorely  wounded  and 
the  spot  upon  which  they  stood  was  deeply  stained 
with  blood. 

They  fought  on  until  each  of  them  had  seven 
great  wounds,  the  least  of  which  might  have  brought 
death  to  the  mightiest  giant  of  the  world.  But 
still  the  terrible  sword-play  continued,  until  their 
coats  of  mail  were  so  hewn  that  they  stood  unarmed, 
and  the  blood  poured  piteously  from  their  veins. 


86  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

At  length  the  red  knight  withdrew  a  little  and  lay 
down.     Then  said  Balin, — 

"  Tell  me  what  knight  you  are.  For  never  did 
I  meet  a  man  of  your  prowess  before." 

"  I  am  Balan/'  was  the  answer,  "  brother  to  the 
good  knight  Balin." 

"  Alas ! "  cried  Balin,  "  that  ever  I  should  see 
this  day ! "  and  he  fell  to  the  earth  in  a  swoon. 

Then  Balan  dragged  himself  up  on  his  hands 
and  feet,  and  took  off  his  brother^s  helmet,  but  the 
face  was  so  scarred  and  blood-stained  that  he  did 
not  know  it.  But  when  Balin  came  to  himself  he 
cried, — 

"  Oh,  Balan,  my  brother,  thou  hast  slain  me,  and 
I  thee!     Fate  has  done  deadly  work  this  day." 

"  Heaven  aid  me !  "  cried  Balan.  "  I  should 
have  known  you  by  your  two  swords,  but  your  shield 
deceived  me." 

"  A  knight  in  the  castle  caused  me  to  leave  my 
own  shield,"  said  Balin.  "  If  1  had  life  enough 
left  me  I  would  destroy  that  castle  for  its  evil 
customs." 

"And  I  should  aid  you,"  said  Balan.  "They 
have  held  me  here  because  I  happened  to  slay  a 
knight  that  kept  this  island.  And  if  you  had  slain 
ftie  and  lived,  you  would  have  been  held  in  the  same 
way  as  their  champion." 

As  they  thus  conversed  there  came  to  them  the 
lady  of  the  castle,  with  four  knights  and  six  ladies 
and  as  many  yeomen.  The  lady  wept  as  she  heard 
them  moan  that  thev  as  brothers  had  slain  each 
other,  and  she  promised  them  that  they  should  be 
richly  entombed  on  the  spot  in  which  the  battle  had 
been  fought. 


ii 


THE  FATE  OF  BALIN  AND  BALAN.       87 

"  Now  will  you  send  for  a  priest/'  asked  Balan> 
"  that  we  may  receive  the  sacrament  ?  " 

"  It  shall  be  done/'  said  the  lady. 

And  so  she  sent  for  a  priest  and  gave  them  the 
rites  of  the  church. 

When  we  are  buried  in  one  tomb/'  said  Balin, 

and  the  inscription  is  placed  over  us  telling  how 
two  brothers  here  slew  each  other  in  ignorance 
and  valor,  there  will  never  good  knight  nor  good 
man  see  our  tomb  but  they  will  pray  for  our  souls, 
and  bemoan  our  fate." 

At  this  all  the  ladies  wept  for  pity.  Soon  after 
Balan  died,  but  Balin  lived  till  midnight.  The 
lady  thereupon  had  them  both  richly  buried,  and 
the  tomb  inscribed  as  they  had  asked,  though  she 
knew  not  Balin's  name. 

But  in  the  morning  came  the  magician  Merlin, 
who  wrote  Balin's  name  upon  the  tomb  in  letters 
of  gold,  as  follows :  "  Here  lieth  Balin  le  Savage, 
the  knight  with  the  two  swords,  and  he  that  smote 
the  Dolorous  Stroke." 

More  than  this  did  Merlin,  through  this  magic 
art.  In  that  castle  he  placed  a  bed,  and  ordained 
that  whoever  should  lie  therein  would  lose  his  wits. 
And  he  took  the  sword  which  Balin  had  won  from 
the  damsel,  and  removed  its  pommel,  placing  upon 
it  another  pommel.  Then  he  asked  a  knight  beside 
him  to  lift  that  sword,  but  he  tried  to  do  so  in  vain. 

"  No  man  shall  have  power  to  handle  that  sword," 
said  Merlin,  "  but  the  best  knight  in  the  world ; 
and  that  shall  be  Sir  Launcelot,  or  his  son  Sir 
Galahad.  And  Launcelot  with  this  sword  shall  slay 
Sir  Gawaine,  the  man  he  loves  best  in  the  world. 


yy 


88  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

All  this  he  wrote  in  the  pommel  of  the  sword. 

Then  Merlin  built  to  the  island  a  bridge  of  steel 
and  iron  that  was  but  half  a  foot  broad,  and 
ordained  that  no  man  should  cross  that  bridge  unless 
he  were  of  virtuous  life  and  free  from  treachery 
or  evil  thoughts  and  deeds. 

This  done,  Merlin  by  magical  skill  fixed  Balin's 
sword  in  a  block  of  marble  as  great  as  a  millstone, 
and  set  it  afloat  upon  the  stream  in  such  a  way 
that  the  sword  always  stood  upright  above  the 
water.  And  for  years  this  stone  swam  down  the 
stream,  for  no  man  could  take  it  from  the  water 
or  draw  the  sword,  until  in  time  it  came  to  the 
city  of  Camelot  (which  is  in  English  Winchester), 
where  the  sword  was  drawn,  and  many  strange 
things  followed  thereupon,  as  shall  be  hereafter 
related. 

SooA  after  this  was  done.  Merlin  came  to  King 
Arthur  and  told  him  the  story  of  the  dolorous 
stroke  which  Balin  had  given  to  King  Pellam,  and 
of  the  marvellous  battle  Balin  and  Balan  had 
fought,  and  how  they  were  buried  in  one  tomb. 

"  Alas !  "  cried  Arthur,  "  1  never  heard  a  sadder 
tale.  And  much  is  the  loss  to  knighthood  and  chiv- 
alry, for  in  the  world  I  know  not  two  such  knights.^* 

Thus  endeth  the  tale  of  Balin  and  Balan,  two 
brethren  born  in  Northumberland,  good  knights. 


MERUN  AHD  NIMUE. 


merlin's  folly  and  fate.  89 


CHAPTEE  V. 


merlin's  folly  and  fate. 


And  now  we  have  again  a  tale  of  disaster  to  tell, 
namely,  how  Merlin  the  wise  fell  into  love's  dotage, 
and  through  folly  brought  himself  to  a  living  death, 
so  that  thenceforth  he  appeared  no  more  upon  the 
earth,  and  his  wise  counsels  were  lost  to  Arthur 
and  his  knights. 

For  the  old  magician,  who  had  so  long  kept  free 
from  love's  folly,  became  besotted  with  the  damsel 
named  N^imue,  she  whom  King  Pellinore  had 
brought  to  the  court  on  his  quest  at  Arthur's 
marriage. 

Merlin  quite  lost  his  wits  and  wisdom  through 
his  mad  passion  for  this  young  lady,  to  whom  he 
would  give  no  rest,  but  followed  her  wherever  she 
went.  The  shrewd  damsel,  indeed,  encouraged  her 
doting  lover,  for  he  was  ready  to  teach  her  all  the 
secrets  of  his  art,  so  that  in  time  she  learned  from 
him  so  much  of  his  craft  that  she  became  skilled  in 
necromancy  beyond  all  enchantresses  of  her  time. 

The  wise  magician  knew  well  that  his  end  was 
at  hand,  and  that  the  woman  whom  he  loved  would 
prove  his  ruin,  but  his  doting  passion  was  such 
that  he  had  no  strength  of  mind  to  resist.  He  came 
thereupon  unto  King  Arthur,  and  told  him  what 
he  foresaw,  and  which  it  was  not  in  his  power  to 
prevent;  and  warned  him  of  many  coming  events, 
that  he  might  be  prepared  for  them  when  Merlin 
was  with  him  no  more. 


90  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

"  I  have  charged  you/'  he  said,  "  to  keep  in  your 
own  hands  the  sword  Excalibur  and  its  scabbard, 
yet  well  1  know  that  both  sword  and  scabbard 
will  be  stolen  from  you  by  a  woman  whom  you 
foolishly  trust,  and  that  your  lack  of  wisdom  will 
bring  you  near  to  your  death.  This  also  I  may 
say,  you  will  miss  me  deeply.  When  I  am  gone 
you  would  give  all  your  lands  to  have  me  again. 
For  Merlin  will  find  no  equal  in  the  land." 

"  That  I  well  know  already,"  said  the  king. 
"  But,  since  you  foresee  so  fully  what  is  coming 
upon  you,  why  not  provide  for  it,  and  by  your  craft 
overcome  it?" 

"  No,"  said  Merlin,  "  that  may  not  be.  Strong 
I  am,  but  destiny  is  stronger.  There  is  no  magic 
that  can  set  aside  the  decrees  of  fate."* 

Soon  afterwards  the  damsel  departed  from  the 
court,  but  her  doting  old  lover  followed  her  wher- 
ever she  went.  And  as  he  sought  to  practise  upon 
her  some  of  his  subtle  arts,  she  made  him  swear,  if 
he  would  have  her  respond  to  his  love,  never  to  per- 
form enchantment  upon  her  again. 

This  Merlin  swore.  Then  he  and  Nimue  crossed 
the  sea  to  the  land  of  Benwick,  the  realm  of  King 
Ban,  who  had  helped  King  Arthur  so  nobly  in  his 
wars,  and  here  he  saw  young  Lancelot,  the  son 
of  King  Ban  and  his  wife  Elaine,  who  was  in  the 
time  to  come  to  win  world-wide  fame. 

The  queen  lamented  bitterly  to  Merlin  the  mortal 
war  which  King  Claudas  made  upon  her  lord  and 
his  lands,  and  the  ruin  that  she  feared. 

"  Be  not  disturbed  thereby,"  said  Merlin.  ''  Your 
son  Lancelot  shall  revenge  you  upon  King  Claudas, 


merlin's  folly  and  fate.  91 

80  that  all  Christendom  shall  ring  with  the  story 
of  his  exploits.  And  this  same  youth  shall  become 
the  most  famous  knight  in  the  world.'' 

"  0  Merlin ! "  said  the  queen,  "  shall  1  live  to 
see  my  son  a  man  of  such  prowess  ?  " 

"  Yes,  my  lady  and  queen,  this  you  shall  see,  and 
live  many  years  to  enjoy  his  fame." 

Soon  afterwards  Merlin  and  his  lady-love  re- 
turned to  England  and  came  to  Cornwall,  the  magi- 
cian showing  her  many  wonders  of  his  art  as  they 
journeyed.  But  he  pressed  her  so  for  her  love  that 
she  grew  sorely  weary  of  his  importunate  suit, 
and  would  have  given  aught  less  than  her  life  to 
be  rid  of  him,  for  she  feared  him  as  one  possessed 
of  the  arts  of  the  foul  fiend.  But  say  or  do  what 
she  would,  her  doting  lover  clung  to  her  all  the 
more  devotedly,  and  wearied  her  the  more  with 
his  endless  tale  of  love. 

Then  it  came  to  pass  that  as  they  wandered 
through  Cornwall,  and  Merlin  showed  her  all  the 
wonders  of  that  land,  they  found  themselves  by  a 
rocky  steep,  under  which  he  told  her  was  a  won- 
derful cavern  that  had  been  wrought  by  enchant- 
ment in  the  solid  rock,  its  mouth  being  closed  by  a 
mighty  mass  of  stone. 

Here,  with  all  her  art  of  love,  and  a  subtle  show 
of  affection,  the  faithless  damsel  so  bewitched  Mer- 
lin that  for  joy  he  knew  not  what  he  did ;  and  at 
her  earnest  wish  he  removed  by  his  craft  the  stone 
that  sealed  the  cavern's  mouth,  and  went  under  it 
that  he  might  show  her  all  the  marvels  that  lay 
there  concealed. 

But  hardly  had  he  entered  when,  using  the  magic 


92  THE  DEEDS  OF  BALIN. 

arts  which  she  had  learned  from  him,  the  faithless 
woman  caused  the  great  stone  to  sink  back  with 
a  mighty  sound  into  its  place,  shutting  up  the 
enchanter  so  firmly  in  that  underground  cavern  that 
with  all  his  craft  he  could  never  escape.  For  he 
had  taught  her  his  strongest  arts  of  magic,  and  do 
what  he  would  he  could  never  move  that  stone. 

This  faithless  act  performed,  the  damsel  departed 
and  left  Merlin  a  prisoner  in  the  rock.  She  alone 
of  all  the  world  could  set  him  free,  and  that  she 
would  not  do,  but  kept  her  secret,  and  thanked 
heaven  for  her  deliverance. 

And  so  Merlin,  through  his  doting  folly,  passed 
out  of  the  world  of  men  into  a  living  tomb. 

Long  days  and  months  passed  before  his  fate  was 
known,  and  then  chance  brought  to  his  cavern 
prison  a  valiant  knight  named  Bagdemagus,  who 
had  left  Arthur's  court  in  anger  because  Sir  Tor 
was  given  a  vacant  seat  at  the  Round  Table  which 
he  claimed  as  his  due. 

As  he  wandered  through  that  part  of  Cornwall  in 
quest  of  adventures,  he  came  one  day  past  a  great 
rock  from  which  dire  lamentations  seemed  to  issue. 
Hearing  those  woeful  sounds,  Bagdemagus  sought 
to  remove  the  stone  that  closed  the  cavern's  mouth, 
but  so  firmly  was  it  fixed  by  enchantment  that  a 
hundred  men  could  not  have  stirred  it  from  its 
place. 

"  Strive  no  longer,"  came  a  voice  from  within. 
"  You  labor  in  vain." 

"Who  is  it  that  speaks?"    asked  the  knight. 

"  I  am  Merlin,  the  enchanter ;  brought  here  by 
my  doting  folly.     I  loved  not  wisely  but  too  well; 


MERLIN^S  FOLLY  AND  FATE.  93 

and  here  you  find  me,  locked  in  this  cliff  by  my 
strongest  spells,  which  in  love's  witlessness  I  taught 
to  a  woman  traitor.  Go  now,  worthy  sir,  and  leave 
me  to  my  fate.'' 

"Alas!  that  this  should  be!  Tell  me  who  did 
this  thing,  and  by  what  dismal  chance,  that  I  may 
tell  the  king.'' 

Then  Merlin  related  the  story  of  his  folly  and 
fate,  in  the  end  bidding  the  knight  to  leave  him, 
for  only  death  could  free  him  from  that  prison. 

Hearing  this,  Bagdemagus  departed,  full  of  sor- 
row and  wonder,  and  after  many  days  returned  to 
Arthur's  court,  where  he  told  the  story  of  the  magi- 
cian's fate.  Great  was  the  marvel  of  all  and  the 
grief  of  the  king  on  learning  this,  and  much  he 
besought  Nimue  to  set  Merlin  free.  But  neither 
threats  nor  entreaties  could  move  her  obdurate 
heart,  and  at  length  she  left  the  court  in  anger 
and  defiance,  vowing  that  she  would  never  set  free 
her  old  tormentor. 


BOOK  III. 

THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE   ADVENTURE   OF   THE   ENCHANTED   SHIP. 

On  a  day  not  long  after  the  event  of  Balin's 
death,  it  befell  that  Arthur  and  many  of  his  knights 
went  out  hunting  in  a  great  forest,  where,  as  for- 
tune willed.  King  Arthur,  Sir  Accolan  of  Gaul, 
and  King  Uriens,  who  had  wedded  Morgan  le  Fay, 
followed  far  on  the  track  of  a  great  hart,  which  led 
them  astray  till  they  were  ten  miles  distant  from 
their  late /companions. 

They  were  all  well  mounted,  but  so  hot  was  the 
chase,  and  so  far  did  it  lead  them,  that  the  horses 
at  length  fell  dead  beneath  the  ardent  huntsmen, 
leaving  them  on  foot  in  the  remote  depths  of  the 
forest.  But  the  hart  was  in  no  better  condition, 
for  the  hot  chase  had  worn  it  out,  and  it  dragged 
wearily  o^  before  them,  barelv  able  to  keep  its  feet. 

"What  shall  we  do?"  said  Arthur.  "Wo  are 
far  from  human  habitation,  and  the  night  comes 
fast  upon  us." 

"  Let  us  go  forward  on  foot,"  said  I^'^riens.  "  We 
shall  surely  soon  meet  with  some  place  of  shelter." 

Taking  this  advice,  they  advanced  in  the  track 
of  the  hart,  and  soon  came  up  with  it  where  it  lay 

94 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  SHIP.  95 

on  the  bank  of  a  large  stream,  while  a  hound  had 
it  by  the  throat,  and  others  were  coming  up  in  full 
bay. 

Then  Arthur  blew  the  death-note  of  the  chase, 
and  killed  the  hart.  This  done,  he  looked  about 
him,  and  to  his  surprise  saw  approaching  on  the 
stream  a  small  vessel,  with  flowing  sails  of  silk. 
As  it  came  near  it  veered  towards  the  shore,  and 
finally  touched  land  on  the  sands  before  them. 
Arthur  walked  to  the  bank  and  looked  over  the 
sides  upon  the  deck,  but  to  his  wonder  not  a  living 
person  was  to  be  seen. 

"  This  is  a  marvellous  thing,"  said  the  king. 
"  Has  the  vessel  been  blown  here  by  a  wind  of 
magic?     Let  us  enter  and  see  what  is  in  the  ship." 

They  did  so,  and  found  it  richly  adorned  with 
silken  hangings  and  royally  equipped.  As  they 
stood  on  the  deck  looking  about  them  in  surprise, 
night  came  upon  them,  but  suddenly  the  darkness 
was  dispelled  by  a  hundred  torches,  which  flared 
out  around  the  sides  of  the  ship,  brilliantly  illu- 
minating it.  And  immediately,  from  somewhere 
in  the  depths  of  the  ship,  appeared  twelve  fair 
damsels,  who  fell  upon  their  knees  before  King 
Arthur,  saluting  him  by  name,  and  welcoming  him 
to  the  best  cheer  that  their  means  could  provide. 

"  You  are  welcome,  whoever  you  be,"  said  Arthur, 
"  and  have  our  thanks  for  your  kindly  good  will." 

"  Follow  us  then,  noble  sir." 

Arthur  and  his  companions  followed  their  fair 
guides  into  a  cabin  of  the  ship,  where  they  were 
glad  to  see  a  table  richly  provided  with  the  most 
delicate  viands,  and  set  with  the  rarest  wines.     The 


96  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 


% 


king  marvelled  greatly  at  this,  for  never  in  his 
life  had  he  fared  better  at  supper  than  at  this  royal 
feast. 

The  meal  ended,  Arthur  was  led  into  a  richly- 
appointed  chamber,  whose  regal  furniture  and 
appointments  he  had  never  seen  surpassed.  His 
companions  were  conducted  to  chambers  no  less 
richly  appointed,  and  quickly  the  three  weary 
hunters  fell  asleep,  for  they  were  exhausted  with 
their  day's  labor. 

Perilous  was  the  sleep  that  came  upon  them,  for 
they  little  dreamed  that  they  had  been  lured  into 
an  enchanted  ship,  and  that  strange  adventures 
awaited  them  all,  and  deadly  danger  threatened  the 
king. 

For  when  the  next  day  dawned,  Uriens  woke  to 
find  himself  at  Camelot,  in  his  own  chamber,  with 
his  wife.  Much  he  marvelled  at  this,  for  he  had 
fallen  asleep  the  evening  before  at  two  days'  jour- 
ney distant.  As  for  Accolan,  we  shall  tell  later 
what  befell  him.  Arthur  woke  to  find  himself  in 
utter  darkness,  while  the  air  was  full  of  doleful 
sounds.  On  feeling  round  him  he  soon  discovered 
that  he  was  in  a  dismal  dungeon,  and  on  listening 
he  discovered  that  the  sounds  he  heard  were  the 
woeful  complaints  of  pri^^oners. 

"  What  place  is  this,  and  who  are  ye  that  bewail 
i=o  bitterly?''   asked  Arthur. 

"  We  are  twenty  knights  that  have  long  been  held 
prisoners  here,  some  for  seven  years  and  some  for 
less." 

For  what  cause?"   inquired  Arthur. 
How  came  you  here,  that  you  know  not  the 
cause  ?  " 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  SHIP.  97 

"  I  came  by  foul  enchantment,"  said  Arthur,  and 
told  them  his  adventure,  at  which  they  wondered 
greatly.  "  Now  tell  me/'  he  asked,  *'  how  came 
you  in  this  direful  state  ?  " 

"  We  are  victims  of  an  evil-hearted  villain,''  they 
answered.  "  The  lord  of  this  castle,  Sir  Damas 
by  name,  is  a  coward  and  traitor,  who  keeps  his 
younger  brother,  Sir  Ontzlake,  a  valiant  and  worthy 
knight,  out  of  his  estate.  Hostility  has  long  ruled 
between  them,  and  Ontzlake  proffers  to  fight  Damas 
for  his  livelihood,  or  to  meet  in  arms  any  knight 
who  may  take  up  his  quarrel.  Damas  is  too  faint- 
hearted to  fight  himself,  and  is  so  hated  that  no 
knight  will  fight  for  him.  This  is  why  we  are  here. 
Finding  no  knight  of  his  own  land  to  take  up  his 
quarrel,  he  has  lain  in  wait  for  knights-errant,  and 
taken  prisoner  every  one  that  entered  his  country. 
All  of  us  preferred  imprisonment  to  fighting  for 
such  a  scoundrel,  and  here  we  have  long  lain  half 
dead  with  hunger  while  eighteen  good  knights  have 
perished  in  this  prison ;  yet  not  a  man  of  us  would 
fight  in  so  base  a  quarrel." 

"This  is  a  woeful  story,  indeed,"  said  Arthur. 
"  I  despise  treason  as  much  as  the  best  of  you,  but 
it  seems  to  me  I  should  rather  take  the  choice  of 
combat  than  of  years  in  this  dungeon.  God  can 
be  trusted  to  aid  the  just  cause.  Moreover,  I 
came  not  here  like  you,  and  have  but  your  words 
for  your  story.  Fight  I  will,  then,  rather  than 
perish." 

As  they  spoke  a  damsel  came  to  King  Arthur, 
bearing  a  light. 

"  How  fare  you  ?  "   she  asked. 

7 


98  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 


(6 
<( 


None  too  well/'  he  replied. 

I  am  bidden  to  say  this  to  you/'  she  remarked. 

If  you  will  fight  for  my  lord,  you  shall  be  deliv- 
ered from  this  prison.  Otherwise  you  shall  stay 
here  for  life." 

"  It  is  a  hard  alternative/'  said  Arthur ;  "  I 
should  deem  only  a  madman  would  hesitate.  I 
should  rather  fight  with  the  best  knight  that  ever 
wore  armor  than  spend  a  week  in  such  a  vile  place. 
To  this,  then,  I  agree.  If  your  lord  will  deliver 
all  these  prisoners,  I  will  fight  his  battle." 

"  Those  are  the  terms  he  offers,"  said  the  damsel. 

"  Then  tell  him  I  am  ready.  But  he  must  pro- 
vide me  with  horse  and  armor,  and  vow  on  his 
knightly  honor  to  keep  his  word." 
All  this  he  will  freely  do." 
It  seems  to  me,  damsel,  that  I  have  seen  you 
before.'  Have  you  not  been  at  the  court  of  King 
Arthur  ?  " 

"  Not  so,"  said  the  damsel.  "  I  have  never  been 
there,  but  am  the  daughter  of  the  lord  of  this  castle, 
who  has  always  kept  me  at  home." 

In  this,  as  the  chronicles  tell  us,  she  spoke  falsely, 
for  she  was  one  of  the  damsels  of  Morgan  le  Fay, 
and  well  she  knew  the  king. 

Damas  was  glad  at  heart  to  learn  that  a  knight 
had  at  last  consented  to  fight  for  him,  and  the  more 
so  when  he  saw  Arthur  and  marked  his  strong  limbs 
and  the  high  spirit  in  his  face.  But  he  and  none 
there  save  the  damsel,  knew  who  his  prisoner  was. 

"It  were  a  pity/'  said  all  who  saw  him,  "  that 
such  a  knight  should  die  in  prison.  It  is  wise  in 
him  to  fight,  whatever  betide." 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  SHIP.  99 

Then  agreement  was  made  that  Arthur  should 
do  battle  to  the  uttermost  for  the  lord  of  the  castle, 
who,  on  his  part,  agreed  to  set  free  the  imprisoned 
knights.  To  this  covenant  both  parties  took  oath, 
whereupon  the  twenty  knights  were  brought  from 
their  dark  prison  to  the  castle  hall,  and  given  their 
freedom  and  the  privilege  of  seeing  the  battle. 

But  now  we  must  leave  the  storv  of  Arthur  and 
Damas,  and  turn  to  that  of  Accolan  of  Gaul,  the 
third  of  the  three  knights  who  had  gone  to  sleep  in 
the  enchanted  ship.  This  knight  was,  unknown 
to  Arthur,  a  lover  of  Morgan  le  Fay,  being  he  for 
whose  sake  she  had  counterfeited  the  magic  scab- 
bard of  the  sword  Excalibur. 

She  loved  him,  indeed,  as  ardently  as  she  had 
grown  to  hate  her  royal  brother,  and  through  this 
love  had  laid  a  treacherous  plot  for  Arthur's  death. 

When  Accolan  awoke,  to  his  surprise  he  found 
himself  no  longer  in  the  ship,  but  lying  within 
half  a  foot  of  the  side  of  a  deep  well,  in  seeming 
peril  of  his  life,  for  he  might  at  any  moment  have 
fallen  into  the  water.  Out  of  this  well  there  came 
a  pipe  of  silver,  from  which  a  crystal  stream  ran 
into  a  high  marble  basin.  When  Accolan  beheld 
all  this  he  crossed  himself  and  said, — 

"  God  save  my  lord  King  Arthur,  and  King 
Uriens,  for  those  damsels  in  the  ship  have  betrayed 
us  all.  They  were  not  women,  but  devils,  and  if  I 
escape  this  misadventure  I  shall  destroy  all  enchan- 
tresses wherever  I  find  them." 

As  he  spoke,  there  came  to  him  a  dwarf  with  a 
great  mouth  and  a  flat  nose,  who  saluted  him,  and 
said  that  he  came  from  Morgan  le  Fay. 


100  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

"  She  sends  you  her  greetings,  and  bids  you  be 
of  strong  heart,  for  to-morrow  it  shall  be  your  task 
to  fight  a  knight  of  the  greatest  prowess.  That 
you  may  win  in  the  combat  she  has  sent  you  Arthur's 
sword  Excalibur,  with  its  magical  scabbard.  She 
bids  you  do  the  battle  to  the  uttermost  without 
mercy,  and  promises  to  make  a  queen  of  the  damsel 
whom  you  shall  send  to  her  with  the  head  of  the 
knight  you  fight  with." 

"  I  shall  do  her  bidding,"  said  Accolan,  ^^  and  can- 
not fail  to  win,  now  that  I  have  this  sword,  for  which 
I  fervently  thank  her.  When  saw  you  my  lady 
queen  ?  " 

"  I  am  just  from  her." 

"  Recommend  me  to  her,  and  tell  her  I  shall  do 
all  I  have  promised,  or  die  for  it.  These  crafts 
and  enchantments  that  have  happened — are  they  of 
her  making  ?  " 

"  That  you  may  well  believe.  She  has  prepared 
them  to  bring  on  this  battle." 

"  Who,  then,  is  the  knight  with  whom  I  shall 
fight  ?  It  seems  to  me  he  should  be  a  noble  one,  for 
such  preparation." 

"  That  my  lady  has  not  told  me." 

As  they  spoke  there  came  to  them  a  knight  and 
a  lady,  with  six  squires,  who  asked  Sir  Accolan 
why  he  lay  there,  and  begged  him  to  rise  and  come 
with  them  to  a  neighboring  manor,  wlierc  he  might 
rest  in  better  ease.  As  fortune  willed  it,  this  manor 
was  the  dwelling  of  Sir  Ontzlake,  the  brother  of 
the  traitor  Damas. 

Accolan  gladly  accepted  the  invitation,  but  not 
long  had  he  been  in  the  manor  when  word  came 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  SHIP.  101 

from  Damas,  saying  that  he  had  found  a  knight 
who  was  ready  to  do  battle  to  the  death  for  their 
claims,  and  challenging  Ontzlake  to  make  ready 
without  delay  for  the  field,  or  to  send  a  knight  to 
take  his  side  in  the  combat. 

This  challenge  troubled  Ontzlake  sorely.  Not 
long  before  he  had  been  sadly  hurt  in  a  joust,  and 
was  still  weak  from  his  wound.  Accolan,  to  whom 
all  this  was  made  known,  at  once  came,  with  the 
generous  impulse  of  a  true  knight,  to  his  host,  and 
offered  to  do  battle  in  his  stead.  In  his  heart,  too, 
he  felt  that  this  might  be  the  combat  of  which 
Morgan  had  warned  him,  and  with  the  aid  of 
Arthur's  sword  and  scabbard  he  could  not  fail  to 
win. 

Ontzlake  thanked  him  deeply  for  his  generous 
offer,  and  without  delay  sent  word  to  Damas  that 
he  would  be  ready  with  a  champion  at  the  hour 
appointed,  and  trust  to  God's  grace  for  the  issue 
of  the  combat. 

When  morning  came,  Arthur  was  arrayed  in  a 
suit  of  chain  mail  and  provided  with  a  strong  horse, 
which  he  viewed  with  knightly  ardor. 

"  When  shall  we  to  the  field  ?  "   he  asked  Damas. 

"  As  soon  as  vou  have  heard  Mass." 

Mass  was  scarcely  ended  when  a  squire  rode  up 
from  Ontzlake,  to  say  that  his  knight  was  already 
in  the  field,  and  to  bid  Damas  bring  his  champion 
to  the  lists,  for  he  was  prepared  to  do  battle  to  the 
utterance. 

Then  Arthur  mounted  his  war-horse  and  rode 
to  the  field,  attended  by  all  the  knights  and  com- 
mons of  the  country  round ;  twelve  good  men  of  the 


102  THE  TREASON  OP  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

district  having  been  chosen  to  wait  upon  the  two 
knights,  and  see  that  the  battle  was  conducted  fairly 
and  according  to  the  rules  of  chivalry. 

As  they  rod^  forward  a  damsel  came  to  Arthur, 
bringing  him  a  sword  like  unto  Excalibur,  with  a 
scabbard  that  seemed  in  every  point  the  same. 

"  Morgan  le  Fay  sends  you  your  sword,  for  the 
great  love  she  bears  you,"  said  the  messenger,  "  and 
hopes  it  may  do  you  worthy  service  in  the  fray.'^ 

Arthur  took  it  and  thanked  her,  never  dreaming 
that  he  had  been  treated  falsely.  But  the  sword 
that:  was  sent  him  was  but  a  brittle  and  worthless 
blade,  and  the  scabbard  was  a  base  counterfeit  of 
that  magic  one  which  he  who  wore  could  lose  no 
blood,  and  which  he  in  brotherly  trust  had  given 
to  the  care  of  his  faithless  sister. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE   COMBAT  OF  ARTHUR  AND  ACCOLAN. 

The  time  for  the  battle  having  come,  the  two 
knights  took  their  places  at  the  opposite  sides  of 
the  lists,  neither  knowing  with  whom  he  fought, 
and  both  bent  on  doing  battle  to  the  death.  Then 
putting  spurs  to  their  steeds,  they  dashed  across  the 
field  with  headlong  speed,  each  striking  the  other  in 
the  middle  of  the  shield  with  his  spear,  and  with 
such  force  that  horses  and  men  alike  were  hurled 
to  the  earth.     In  a  moment  both  the  combatants 


THE  COMBAT  OF  ARTHUR  AND  ACCOLAN.      103 

started  up  in  warlike  fury  and  drew  their  swords. 

At  this  juncture  there  came  among  the  spectators 
the  damsel  Nimue,  she  who  had  put  Merlin  under 
the  stone.  She  knew,  by  the  art  that  Merlin  had 
taught  her,  how  Morgan  le  Fay  had  plotted  that 
Arthur  should  be  slain  that  dav,  and  she  came  to 
save  his  life  if  it  lay  in  her  power,  for  she  loved 
the  king  as  deeply  as  she  hated  Merlin. 

Eagerly  to  battle  went  the  two  knights,  hewing 
at  each  other  like  giants  with  their  swords.  But 
Arthur^s  blade  bit  not  like  Accolan's,  which  wounded 
him  at  nearly  every  stroke,  so  that  soon  his  blood 
was  flowing  from  a  dozen  wounds,  while  his  oppo- 
nent remained  unhurt. 

Arthur  was  in  deep  dismay  on  beholding  this. 
That  some  treason  had  been  practised  on  him  he 
felt  sure,  for  his  sword  bit  not  steel  as  a  good  blade 
should,  while  the  sword  in  Accolan's  hand  seemed 
to  have  the  trenchant  edge  of  Excalibur. 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Accolan,  "  keep  well  your 
guard  if  you  care  for  life." 

"  Thus  will  I,"  answered  Arthur,  and  he  dealt 
him  a  blow  on  the  helm  that  nearly  brought  him 
to  the  ground. 

Accolan  drew  back  from  the  staggering  stroke, 
and  then  with  a  furious  onset  rushed  on  Arthur, 
and  dealt  him  so  fierce  a  blow  that  the  king  had 
much  ado  to  keep  his  feet.  Thus  stroke  by  stroke 
went  on  the  battle,  each  knight  roused  to  fury,  and 
each  fighting  with  his  utmost  skill  and  strength ; 
but  Accolan  lost  scarcely  a  drop  of  blood,  while 
Arthur^s  life-blood  flowed  so  freely  that  only  his 
knightly  soul  and  unyielding  courage  kept  him  on 


104  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

his  feet.  He  grew  so  feeble  that  he  felt  as  if  death 
was  upon  him,  yet,  though  he  staggered  like  a 
drunken  man,  he  faced  Accolan  with  the  unquenehed 
spirit  of  a  noble  knight. 

All  who  saw  the  field  marvelled  that  Arthur 
could  fight  after  such  a  loss  of  blood.  So  valiant 
a  knight  none  there  had  ever  beheld,  and  many 
prayed  the  two  brothers  to  come  into  accord  and 
stop  this  deadly  fray.  But  this  Damas  would  not 
do,  and  though  Ontzlake  trembled  for  his  cause 
he  could  not  end  the  combat. 

At  this  juncture  Arthur  withdrew  a  little  to  rest, 
but  Accolan  called  him  fiercely  to  the  fight,  saying, 
"  I  shall  not  suffer  you  to  rest ;  neither  of  us  must 
rest  except  in  death /^ 

With  these  words  he  advanced  towards  the  king, 
who,  with  the  strength  of  rage,  sprang  upon  him 
and  struck  him  so  mighty  a  blow  on  the  helm  as 
to  make  him  totter  on  his  feet  and  nearly  fall. 
But  the  blow  had  a  serious  ending,  for  Arthur's 
sword  broke  at  the  cross,  the  blade  falling  into 
the  blood-stained  grass,  and  only  the  hilt  and 
pommel  remaining  in  his  hand. 

When  Arthur  saw  himself  thus  disarmed  he  felt 
sure  that  his  hour  of  death  had  come,  vet  he  let  not 
his  dread  be  seen,  but  held  up  his  shield  and  lost 
no  ground,  facing  his  mortal  foe  as  boldly  as  though 
he  was  trebly  armed. 

"  Sir  knight,"  cried  Accolan,  "  you  are  overcome, 
and  can  no  longer  sustain  the  battle.  You  are 
weaponless,  and  have  lost  so  much  blood  that  I  am 
loath  to  slay  you.  Therefore  yield  to  me  as 
recreant,  and  force  me  not  to  kill  a  helpless  foe." 


H 

1 

M 

1 

HT^^ 

i 

^H 

1 

^^H*j 

s 

H 

i 

1 

COTyrigl,,!,,  Fmlc.id 

t  M.Ilyn.  lj.c 

j».,£=ei 

1 

1 

1 

THE  COMBAT  OF  ARTHUR  AND  ACCOLAN.      105 

"That  I  may  not  do/'  said  Arthur.  "I  have 
promised,  by  the  faith  of  my  body,  to  fight  this 
battle  to  the  uttermost;  and  I  had  rather  die  in 
honor  than  live  in  shame.  If  I  lack  weapon,  I  lack 
not  spirit ;  and  if  you  slay  me  weaponless,  the  shame 
be  on  you.'' 

"  That  shame  I  can  bear,"  said  Accolan.  "  What 
I  have  sworn  I  will  perform.  Since  you  will  not 
yield,  you  are  a  dead  man." 

This  said,  he  struck  Arthur  a  furious  blow,  that 
almost  felled  him  to  the  earth,  bidding  him  at  the 
same  time  to  crave  for  mercy  if  he  would  live. 
Arthur's  only  reply  was  to  press  upon  him  with 
his  shield,  and  deal  him  such  a  buffet  with  the 
pommel  of  his  sword  as  to  send  him  staggering 
three  paces  back. 

And  now  the  damsel  Nimue,  stirred  by  the 
prowess  of  the  king,  and  fearful  of  his  death,  deter- 
mined to  aid  him  by  all  her  power  of  enchantment. 

Therefore,  when  Accolan  recovered  himself  and 
struck  Arthur  another  stroke,  she  threw  a  spell 
upon  him  and  caused  the  sword  to  fall  from  his 
hand  to  the  earth.  At  once  the  king  lightly  leaped 
to  it  and  seized  it,  thrusting  Accolan  fiercely  back. 
As  soon  as  his  hand  had  touched  the  hilt  he  knew 
it  for  his  sword  Excalibur. 

"  You  have  been  too  long  from  me,"  he  said, 
"  and  no  small  damage  you  have  done  me.  Treason 
has  been  at  work,  and  treason  shall  have  its  deserts." 

Then,  seeing  the  scabbard  hanging  by  Accolan's 
side,  he  sprang  suddenly  forward  and  wrenched 
it  from  him,  flinging  it  across  the  field  as  far  as  he 
could  throw  it. 


«  AT. 


106  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

"  Now,  sir  knight/'  cried  Arthur,  "  my  turn  has 
come.  You  have  nearly  brought  my  life  to  an 
end  with  this  sword,  and  I  warrant  that  you  shall 
be  rewarded  for  the  blood  I  have  lost  and  the  pain 
I  have  endured  this  day." 

Therewith,  furious  as  a  wounded  lion,  Arthur 
rushed  upon  his  foe,  hurled  him  with  all  his  strength 
to  the  earth,  tore  off  his  helm,  and  gave  him  such 
a  blow  upon  the  head  that  blood  burst  out  from  his 
ears,  nose,  and  mouth. 

Now  shall  I  slay  you/'  said  Arthur. 
Do  so  if  you  will,"  said  Accolan.  "  You  are  the 
best  knight  I  ever  met,  and  I  see  now  that  God  is 
with  you.  But  I  promised  to  do  this  battle  to  the 
uttermost,  and  never  to  yield  me  recreant.  There- 
fore kill  me  if  you  will,  for  my  voice  shall  never 
ask  for  mercy." 

Then  Arthur,  looking  closer,  saw  something 
familiar  in  his  face. 

"  Tell  me  who  you  are,"  he  cried ;  "  of  what 
country  and  court." 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Accolan,  ^^  I  am  of  the  court 
of  King  Arthur,  and  my  name  is  Accolan  of  Gaul." 

Arthur  heard  this  with  deep  dismay.  For  there 
came  into  his  mind  the  enchantment  of  the  ship, 
and  his  heart  sank  with  fear  of  the  treason  of  his 
sister. 

"  Tell  me  this  also,  sir  knight/'  he  asked,  ''  from 
whom  had  you  this  sword  ?  " 

^^  Woe  worth  that  sword,"  cried  Accolan ;  "  I 
have  gotten  my  death  by  it." 

"  That  may  well  be/'  answered  Arthur,  "  and  I 
fancy  have  got  no  more  than  you  deserve." 


THE  COMBAT  OF  ARTHUR  AND  ACCOLAN.      107 

"  Yesterday/'  said  the  knight,  "  Morgan  le  Fay 
sent  me  that  sword  by  a  dwarf,  that  with  it  I  might 
slay  the  knight  with  whom  I  should  fight  this  day ! 
And  she  would  also  pledge  me  to  slay  King  Arthur, 
her  brother,  for  she  hates  him  above  any  man  in 
the  world.'' 

"  How  know  you  that  to  be  so  ?  " 

"  I  have  loved  her  long,  and  know  her  purposes 
well,  nor  shall  I  longer  keep  them  secret.  If  by 
craft  she  could  slay  Arthur,  she  would  quickly 
dispose  of  her  husband,  King  Uriens.  Then  it  was 
her  intent  to  make  me  king  of  this  realm,  and  to 
reign  herself  as  its  queen.  But  all  this  now  is 
at  an  end,  for  death  is  upon  me." 

"  It  would  have  been  great  wrong  in  you  to 
destroy  your  lord,"  said  Arthur. 

"  That  I  never  could  have  had  the  heart  to  do," 
said  Accolan.  "  But  I  pray  you  to  tell  me  your 
name,  and  from  what  court  you  come  ?  " 

"  I  am  from  Camelot,  and  men  know  me  as  King 
Arthur.  I  am  he  against  whom  you  plotted  such 
deep  treason." 

Then  Accolan  cried  out  in  anguish, — 

"  My  fair,  sweet  lord,  have  mercy  on  me,  for  I 
knew  you  not." 

"  You  knew  me  not  at  this  time,  Accolan,  but 
you  have  confessed  that  you  plotted  treason  against 
me,  and  laid  plans  to  compass  my  death.  Yet  I 
blame  you  the  less  that  Morgan  le  Fay  has  worked 
on  you  with  her  false  arts.  I  have  honored  and 
loved  her  most  of  all  my  kin,  and  have  trusted  her 
as  I  would  my  wife,  and  this  is  how  she  repays  me. 
By  the  faith  of  my  body,  if  I  live  I  shall  be  deeply 
revenged  upon  her  for  this." 


108  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

Then  he  called  to  the  keepers  of  the  field,  and 
said, — 

"  Here,  fair  sirs,  are  two  knights  who  have  fought 
nearly  to  the  death  through  ignorance  of  each 
other.  For  had  either  of  us  known  the  other  you 
would  have  seen  no  battle  to-day,  and  no  stroke 
given  or  returned.'' 

Then  Accolan  called  out  to  those  who  had  gath- 
ered around, — 

"  Lords  and  knights,  this  noble  warrior  with 
whom  I  have  fought  is  the  man  of  most  valor,  man- 
hood, and  worship  on  English  soil,  for  he  is  no 
less  than  our  liege  lord.  King  Arthur.  Had  I  but 
dreamed  it  was  he,  1  would  have  killed  myself 
rather  than  have  drawn  sword  against  him.'' 

At  this  surprising  news  the  people  fell  upon  their 
knees  before  the  king  and  begged  mercy  and  pardon. 

"  Pardon  you  shall  have,"  said  the  king,  "  for 
you  were  ignorant  of  my  person.  It  is  my  fault  if 
harni  came  to  me  in  disguise.  And  here  you  may 
all  see  what  adventures  and  dangers  knights-errant 
are  exposed  to ;  for,  unknown  to  each  other,  I  and 
one  of  my  own  knights  have  fought  for  hours,  to 
the  great  damage  of  us  both.  We  are  both  sorely 
hurt,  but  before  sc^eking  rest  it  is  my  duty  to  settb 
the  dispute  which  gave  rise  to  this  combat.  I  have 
been  your  champion,  Sir  Damas,  and  have  won  your 
cause.  But  as  the  victor  I  claim  the  right  to  give 
judgment,  and  as  I  know  you  for  a  villain  and 
coward,  I  adjudge  unto  your  brotlier  all  the  manor 
in  dispute,  with  the  provision  that  lie  hold  it  of  you, 
and  yearly  give  you  in  lieu  of  rent  a  palfrey  to  ride 
upon,  which  will  become  such  a  base  poltroon  much 


THE  COMBAT  OF  ARTHUR  AND  ACCOLAN.      109 

better  than  a  war-horse.  And  I  charge  you,  upon 
pain  of  death,  to  restore  to  these  twenty  knights 
their  armor  and  property,  and  never  again  to  dis- 
tress a  knight-errant.  If  complaint  of  such  shall 
be  made  to  me,  by  my  head,  you  shall  die  for  it.  Sir 
Ontzlake,  you  are  said  to  be  a  good  and  valiant 
knight,  and  true  and  worthy  in  your  deeds.  I  desire 
you  to  come  to  my  court  as  soon  as  possible,  where 
you  shall  be  one  of  my  knights,  and,  if  your  deeds 
hereafter  conform  to  the  good  report  I  have  heard 
of  you,  you  soon  shall  equal  your  brother  in  estate." 

"  I  am  at  your  command,"  said  Ontzlake,  "  and 
thank  you  humbly  for  your  goodness  and  bounty. 
As  for  this  battle,  I  would  have  fought  it  myself, 
only  that  lately  I  was  deeply  wounded  in  a  combat 
with  a  wandering  knight." 

"  I  would  it  had  been  so,"  said  Arthur,  "  for 
treason  was  used  against  me  in  this  combat,  and 
had  I  fought  with  you  I  should  not  have  been  so 
badly  hurt.  My  own  sword  was  stolen  and  I  was 
given  a  false  and  brittle  blade,  which  failed  me  in 
my  greatest  need." 

"  Great  pity  it  is  that  a  king  so  noble  and  a  knight 
so  worthy  should  have  been  thus  foully  dealt  with." 

"  I  shall  reward  the  traitor  in  short  time,  bv  the 
grace  of  God,"  said  Arthur.  "  Now  tell  me  how 
far  I  am  from  Camelot  ?  " 

^^  You  are  two  days'  journey  distant." 

^^  Then  where  can  I  obtain  shelter  and  rest  ?  " 

"  There  is  an  abbey  but  three  miles  distant  where 
you  will  find  skilled  leeches  -and  good  nursing." 

Then  King  Arthur  took  his  leave  of  the  people, 
and  repaired  with  Accolan  to  the  abbey,  where  he 


110  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

and  the  knight  were  placed  under  medical  care. 
Arthur's  wounds,  though  deep  and  painful,  proved 
not  serious,  and  he  rapidly  recovered,  but  Accolan 
had  lost  so  much  blood  that  he  died  within  four 
days.  Then  Arthur  had  the  corpse  sent  on  a  horse- 
bier,  attended  by  six  knights,  to  Camelot,  saying  to 
the  messengers, — 

^^Bear  this  body  to  my  sister,  Morgan  le  Fay, 
and  say  to  her  that  I  send  it  as  a  present.  Tell 
her,  moreover,  that,- through  her  sisterly  kindness, 
I  have  again  my  sword  Excalibur  and  the  scabbard, 
and  shall  visit  her  ere  long." 


CHAPTER  III. 

HOW   MORGAN   CHEATED  THE   KING. 

In  the  meantime  Morgan  le  Fay  was  so  sure  of 
the  success  of  her  murderous  plot,  to  aid  which 
she  had  used  all  her  power  of  necromancy,  that  she 
felt  it  safe  to  complete  her  scheme.  Seeing  her 
husband,  King  Uriens,  lying  asleep  upon  his  couch, 
she  called  a  maiden,  who  was  in  her  confidence, 
and  said, — 

"  Bring  me  my  lord's  sword.  Now  shall  my 
work  be  ended." 

"  Oh,  madam,"  cried  the  damsel,  "  would  you 
slay  your  lord  !     If  you  do  so  you  can  never  escape." 

"  Leave  that  to  me,  girl.  Bring  me  the  sword  at 
once ;  I  am  the  best  judge  of  what  it  is  fit  to  do." 


HOW  MORGAN  CHEATED  THE  KING.     Ill 

The  damsel  departed  with  a  heavy  heart,  but 
finding  Sir  Uwaine,  King  Uriens'  son,  asleep  in 
another  chamber,  she  waked  him  and  said, — 

"  Eise  at  once  and  go  to  your  mother.  She  has 
vowed  to  kill  the  king,  your  father,  and  has  sent 
me  in  all  haste  for  his  sword.^^ 

''  To  kill  him !  "  cried  Uwaine.  "  What  treach- 
ery is  this  ? — But,  gt>,  bring  the  sword  as  she  bids. 
Leave  it  to  me  to  deal  with  her.^' 

The  damsel  did  as  she  was  bidden,  and  brought 
the  sword  to  the  queen,  giving  it  to  her  with  hands 
that  quaked  with  fear.  Morgan  seized  it  with  a 
firm  grasp,  and  went  boldly  to  the  bedside,  where 
she  stood  looking  with  cruel  eyes  on  the  sleeping 
king.  As  she  lifted  the  sword  for  the  murderous 
blow,  Uwaine,  who  had  silently  entered,  sprang 
upon  her  and  seized  her  hand  in  a  crushing  grip. 

"You  fiend,  what  would  you  do?"  he*  fiercely 
cried.  "  If  you  were  not  my  mother  I  would  smite 
ofl'  your  head  with  this  sword.  Men  say  that  Mer- 
lin was  born  of  a  devil ;  but  well  I  believe  that  J 
have  an  earthly  fiend  for  mother.  To  kill  my 
father  thus! — in  his  slumber! — what  foul  device 
is  this  ?  " 

His  face  and  voice  were  so  full  of  righteous  fury 
that  the  queen  quaked  to  her  heart  with  fear, 
and  she  clasped  her  hands  in  terror  upon  he?  throat. 

"  Oh,  Uwaine,  my  dear  son,  have  mercy  on  me ! 
The  foul  fiend  tempted  me  to  this  deed.  Let  me 
live  to  repent  of  this  base  intent,  which  I  pray 
you  to  keep  secret.  I  swear  never  again  to  attempt 
so  foul  a  deed.'' 

"  Can  I  trust  you  ?  Truth  and  murder  do  not 
go  together.'' 


112  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 


"  On  my  soul,  I  vow  to  keep  my  word !  " 

"  Live,  then ;  but  beware  you  rouse  me  not  again 
by  such  a  murderous  thought." 

Hardly  had  the  false-hearted  queen  escaped  from 
the  indignation  of  her  son  when  tidings  came  to  her 
which  filled  her  with  as  deep  a  dread  as  when 
Uwaine  had  threatened  her  with  the  sword,  while 
the  grief  it  brought  her  was  deeper  than  her  fear. 
For  she  learned  that  Accolan  had  been  slain  in  the 
battle,  and  that  his  dead  body  had  been  sent  her. 
Soon,  indeed,  came  the  funeral  train,  with  the  mes- 
sage that  Arthur  had  sent.  Then  sorrow  and  ter- 
ror together  filled  her  heart  till  it  threatened  to 
break,  for  she  had  loved  Accolan  with  all  her  soul, 
and  his  fate  wounded  her  almost  to  death.  But  she 
dared  not  let  this  grief  be  seen  upon  her  counten- 
ance, lest  the  secret  of  her  love  should  be  discov- 
ered; and  she  was  forced  to  wear  a  cheerful  aspect 
above  a  bleeding  heart.  And  this  she  knew,  besides, 
that  if  she  should  remain  in  Camelot  until  Arthur's 
return,  all  the  gold  in  the  realm  would  not  buy 
her  life. 

She  went,  therefore,  unto  Queen  Guenever  and 
asked  leave  to  ride  into  the  country. 

"  Why  not  remain  to  greet  your  brother  on  his 
return  ?     He  sends  word  that  he  will  soon  be  here." 

"  I  should  much  like  to,  Guenever,  but  hasty 
tidings  have  come  which  require  that  I  should 
make  no  delay." 

"  If  that  be  so,"  answered  Guenever,  "  let  me  not 
stay  you.     You  may  depart  when  you  will." 

On  the  next  morning,  before  daybreak,  Morgan 
took  horse,  and  rode  all  that  day  and  the  greater 


HOW  MORGAN  CHEATED  THE  KING.     113 

part  of  the  night.  On  the  following  day  by  noon 
she  came  to  the  abbey  where  Arthur  lay.  Here 
she  asked  the  nuns  where  he  was,  and  they  an- 
swered that  he  was  sleeping  in  his  chamber,  for 
he  had  had  but  little  rest  during  the  three  nights 
past. 

"  Then  see  that  none  of  you  waken  him,"  she 
said.  "  I  will  go  visit  him  in  his  chamber.  I  am 
his  sister,  Morgan  le  Fay." 

Saying  this,  she  sprang  from  her  horse  and 
entered  the  abbey,  going  straight  to  Arthur's  cham- 
ber. None  dare  hinder  her,  and  she  suffered  no  one 
to  accompany  her.  Beaching  the  chamber  she 
found  her  brother  asleep  in  bed,  with  the  sword 
Excalibur  clasped  with  a  vigorous  grip  in.  his  right 
hand. 

When  she  saw  this  her  heart  sank,  for  it  was 
to  steal  that  sword  she  came,  and  she  knew  her 
treacherous  purpose  was  at  an  end.  She  could  not 
take  the  sword  from  his  hand  without  wakening 
him,  and  that  might  be  the  warrant  for  her  instant 
death.  But  the  scabbard  lay  on  a  chair  by  the 
bedside.  This  she  took  and  left  the  chamber, 
concealing  it  under  her  mantle  as  she  went. 
Mounting  her  horse  again,  she  rode  hastily  away 
with  her  train. 

Not  long  afterwards  Arthur  woke,  and  at  once 
missed  his  scabbard.  Calling  his  attendants  in  a 
loud  voice,  he  angrily  asked  who  had  been  there, 
and  who  had  dared  remove  the  missing  scabbard. 
They  told  him  that  it  was  his  sister,  Morgan  le 
Pay,  and  that  she  had  put  it  under  her  mantle 
and  ridden  away  with  it, 

8 


114  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

"  Then  have  you  watched  me  falsely/'  cried 
Arthur,  in  hasty  passion. 

"  What  could  we  do  ?  ^'  thev  answered.  "  We 
dared  not  disobey  your  sister^s  command." 

"  Fetch  me  at  once  the  best  horse  that  can  be 
found,"  he  ordered,  "  and  bid  Sir  Ontzlake  arm 
himself  in  all  haste,  and  come  here  well  mounted 
to  ride  with  me." 

By  the  hour's  end  these  commands  had  been 
obeved,  and  Arthur  and  Ontzlake  rode  from  the 
abbey  in  company,  well  armed  and  on  good  horses, 
though  the  king  was  yet  feeble  from  his  wounds. 
After  riding  some  distance  they  reached  a  way-side 
cross,  by  which  stood  a  cowherd,  whom  they  asked 
if  any  lady  had  lately  ridden  that  way. 

"  Yes,  your  honors,"  said  the  cowherd.  "  Not 
long  ago  a  lady  passed  here  at  easy  speed,  followed 
by  about  forty  horsemen.  They  rode  into  yonder 
forest." 

Arthur  and  Ontzlake  at  this  news  put  spurs  to 
their  horses  and  followed  fast  on  the  track  of  the 
fugitives.  An  hour  of  this  swift  pursuit  brought 
them  in  sight  of  Morgan's  party,  and  with  a  heart 
hot  with  anger  Arthur  rode  on  at  the  utmost  pace 
of  his  horse. 

The  fugitives,  seeing  themselves  thus  hotly  chased, 
spurred  on  their  own  steeds,  soon  leaving  the  forest 
and  entering  a  neighboring  plain,  beside  which  was 
a  lake.  When  Morgan  saw  that  she  was  in  danger 
of  being  overtaken  she  rode  quickly  to  tlie  lake- 
side, her  heart  filled  with  spiteful  liatred  of  her 
brother. 

"  Whatsoever  may  happen  to  me,"  she  cried,  "  I 


HOW  MORGAN  CHEATED  THE  KING.     115 

VOW  that  Arthur  shall  never  again  wear  this  scab- 
bard. I  here  consign  it  to  the  lake.  From  the 
water  it  came;  to  the  water  it  returns." 

And  with  a  strong  hand  she  flung  it  far  out  over 
the  deep  waters,  into  which  it  sank  like  a  stone,  for 
it  was  heavy  with  gold  and  precious  stones. 

Then  she  rode  on,  followed  by  her  train,  till  they 
entered  a  valley  where  there  were  many  great  stones, 
and  where  they  were  for  the  moment  out  of  sight 
of  their  pursuers.  Here  Morgan  le  Fay  brought 
her  deepest  powers  of  enchantment  to  work,  and  in 
a  trice  she  and  her  horse  were  changed  into  marble, 
while  each  of  her  followers  became  converted  into  a 
statue  of  stone. 

Hardly  had  this  been  done  when  Arthur  and 
Ontzlake  entered  the  valley,  where  they  beheld 
with  starting  eyes  the  marvellous  transformation. 
For  in  place  of  the  fugitives  they  saw  only  horses 
and  riders  of  solid  stone,  and  so  changed  that  the 
king  could  not  tell  his  sister  from  her  men,  nor 
one  knight  from  another. 

A  marvel  is  here,  indeed ! "  cried  the  king. 
The  vengeance  of  God  has  fallen  upon  our  foos, 
and  Morgan  le  Fay  is  justly  punished  for  her  treach- 
ery. It  grieves  me,  indeed,  that  so  heavy  a  fate 
has  befallen  her,  yet  her  own  deeds  have  brought 
on  her  this  mighty  punishment." 

Then  he  sought  on  all  sides  for  the  scabbard, 
but  it  could  nowhere  be  found.  Disappointed  in 
this,  he  at  length  turned  and  rode  slowly  back 
with  his  companion  to  the  abbey  whence  they  had 
come,  their  souls  filled  with  wonder  and  awe. 

Yet   no   sooner   were   they   well   gone   than   the 


116  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  PAY. 

enchantress  brought  another  charm  to  work,  and 
at  once  she  and  all  her  people  were  turned  again 
from  stone  into  flesh  and  blood. 

"  Now  we  can  go  where  we  will ;  and  may  joy 
go  with  King  Arthur,"  she  said,  with  a  laugh  of 
triumph  to  her  knights.     "Did  you  note  him?'' 

"  Yes,"  they  replied.  "  And  his  countenance  was 
so  warlike  that  had  we  not  been  stone  we  could 
scarce  have  stood  before  him." 

"  I  believe  you,"  said  Morgan.  "  He  would  have 
made  sad  havoc  among  us  but  for  my  spells." 

They  now  rode  onward,  and  soon  afterwards  met 
a  knight  who  bore  before  him  on  his  horse  another 
knight,  who  was  unarmed,  blindfolded,  and  bound 
hand  and  foot. 

"  What  are  you  about  to  do  with  that  knight  ?  " 
asked  Morgan. 

"  To  drown  him  in  yonder  fountain,"  was  the 
reply.  "  He  has  caused  my  wife  to  prove  false  to 
me,  and  only  his  death  will  avenge  my  honor." 

"  Is  this  the  truth  ?  "  she  asked  the  bound  knight. 

"  It  is  false,"  he  replied.  "  He  is  a  villain  to 
whom  I  have  done  no  wrong.  He  took  me  una- 
wares or  I  should  not  have  been  in  such  a  state." 

"Who  are  you,  and  of  what  country?" 

"  My  name  is  Manassen.  I  am  of  the  court  of 
King  Arthur,  and  cousin  to  Accolan  of  Gaul." 

"  Then  for  the  love  I  bore  your  cousin  you  shall 
be  delivered,  and  this  villain  be  put  in  your  plight." 

By  her  orders  Manassen  was  loosed  from  his  bonds 
and  the  other  knight  bound.  Manassen  took  from 
him  his  armor  and  horse,  and  riding  with  him  to 
the   fountain,   flung  him    remorselessly   in,   where 


HOW  MORGAN  CHEATED  THE  KING.     117 

he  met  the  fate  which  he  had  devised  for  his  late 
prisoner.  Then  Manassen  rode  back  to  Morgan, 
and  asked  her  if  she  had  any  word  to  send  King 
Arthur. 

"  Tell  him/'  she  answered,  "  that  I  rescued  you 
not  for  love  of  him,  but  of  Accolan;  and  that  I 
fear  him  not  while  I  can  turn  myself  and  my 
knights  into  stones.  Let  him  know  that  you  saw 
us  riding  in  good  flesh  and  blood,  and  laughing 
him  to  scorn.  Tell  him,  moreover,  that  I  can  do 
stranger  things  than  that  if  the  need  should  come." 

Bidding  Manassen  to  return  with  this  message, 
she  rode  with  her  train  into  the  country  of  Gore, 
where  she  was  well  received,  and  in  the  might  of 
whose  castles  and  towns  she  felt  secure  from  Ar- 
thur's wrath,  for  much  she  feared  his  vengeance 
should  she  fall  into  his  hands. 

Meantime  the  king  rode  back  to  Camelot,  where 
he  was  gladly  received  by  his  queen  and  his  knights, 
to  whom  he  told  in  full  the  story  of  Morgan  le 
Fay's  treason.  They  were  all  angry  at  this,  and 
many  knights  declared  that  she  should  be  burned. 

"  Stone  will  not  burn,"  said  Arthur.  "  But  God 
has  punished  her." 

But  as  they  thus  conversed,  Manassen  came  to 
the  court  and  told  the  king  of  his  adventure,  deliv- 
ering to  him  Morgan's  message. 

"  Then  the  witch  has  tricked  me ! "  cried  the 
king,  in  a  tone  of  vexation.  "  I  might  have  known 
it,  had  I  been  wise.  A  kind  sister  she  is,  indeed! 
But  my  turn  will  come.  Treachery  and  magic 
mav  succeed  for  a  time,  but  honor  must  win  in  the 
end." 


118  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

Yet  despite  the  king's  awakened  distrust,  he 
nearly  fell  a  victim  to  his  sister's  vile  enchantments. 
For  on  the  succeeding  morning  there  came  a  damsel 
to  the  court  from  Morgan  le  Fay,  bearing  with  her 
the  richest  mantle  that  had  ever  been  seen  there. 
It  was  set  so  full  of  precious  stones  that  it  might 
almost  have  stood  alone,  and  some  of  them  were 
gems  worth  a  king's  ransom. 

"  Your  sister  sends  you  this  mantle,"  said  the 
bearer.  "  That  she  has  done  things  to  offend  you 
she  knows  and  is  sorry  for;  and  she  desires  that 
you  shall  take  this  gift  from  her  as  a  tribute  for 
her  evil  thoughts.  What  else  can  be  done  to  amend 
her  acts  she  will  do,  for  she  bitterly  regrets  her 
deeds  of  wickedness." 

The  mantle  pleased  the  king  greatly,  though  he 
made  but  brief  reply  as  he  accepted  it  from  the 
hand  of  the  messenger. 

At  that  perilous  moment  there  came  to  him  the 
damsel  Nimue,  who  had  so  recently  helped  him  in 
his  dire  need. 

"  Sir,  may  I  speak  with  you  in  private  ?  "  she 
asked  the  king. 

"  What  have  you  to  say  ? "  he  replied,  with- 
drawing from  the  throng. 

"  It  is  this.  Beware  that  you  do  not  put  on 
this  mantle,  and  that  no  knight  of  yours  puts  it 
on,  till  you  know  more.  The  serpent  does  not  so 
soon  lose  its  venom.  There  is  death  in  the  mantle's 
folds.  At  least  do  this:  before  you  wear  it,  com- 
mand that  she  who  brought  it  shall  put  it  on." 

"  Well  said,"  answered  the  king.  "  It  shall  be 
done  as  you  advise." 


HOW  MORGAN  CHEATED  THE  KING.  119 

Then  he  returned  to  the  messenger  and  said, — 

"  Damsel,  I  wish  to  see  the  mantle  you  have 
brought  me  tried  upon  yourself.'^ 

"  A  king's  garment  on  me,  sir !  That  would  not 
be  seemly/' 

"  Seemly  or  not,  I  command  it.  By  my  head, 
you  shall  wear  it  before  it  come  on  my  back,  or 
that  of  any  man  here." 

The  damsel  drew  back,  quivering  with  fear  and 
growing  pale  as  death.  But  the  king  commanded 
those  about  him  to  put  it  on  her.  Then  was  seen 
a  marvellous  and  fearful  thing.  For  no  sooner 
had  the  enchanted  robe  been  clasped  around  her 
form  than  flames  burst  out  from  its  every  thread, 
and  in  a  minute  she  fell  to  the  floor  dead,  while  her 
body  was  burnt  to  a  coal. 

The  king's  anger  burst  out  fiercely  at  this,  and 
his  face  flamed  with  the  fire  of  rage.  He  turned 
to  King  Uriens  and  his  son,  who  stood  among  the 
knights. 

"  My  sister,  your  wife,  is  doing  her  utmost  to 
destroy  me,"  he  said,  in  burning  wrath.  "  Are  you 
and  my  nephew,  your  son,  joined  with  her  in  this 
work  of  treachery?  Yet  I  suspect  not  you,  King 
Uriens,  for  Accolan  confessed  to  me  that  she  would 
have  slain  you  as  well  as  me.  But  as  for  your  son, 
Uwaine,  I  hold  him  suspected,  and  banish  him  from 
my  court.     I  can  have  no  traitors  about  me." 

When  these  words  had  been  spoken,  Gawaine 
rose  in  anger,  and  said, — 

"  Whoever  banishes  my  cousin  banishes  me. 
When  and  where  Uwaine  goes  I  go  also." 

And  with  a  stride  of  anger  he  left  the  great 


120  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  PAY. 

hall,  followed  by  Uwaine.  Then  the  two  knights 
armed  themselves,  and  rode  together  from  Came- 
lot,  Gawaine  vowing  never  to  return  till  his  cousin 
had  been  fully  and  freely  pardoned. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES. 

The  two  knights  who  had  so  hastily  departed 
from  Arthur's  court  were  destined  to  see  many  and 
strange  adventures  before  they  should  return.  And 
as  their  wanderings  and  deeds  were  caused  by  the 
treason  of  Morgan  le  Fay,  it  is  meet  that  they 
should  here  be  told. 

They  spent  their  first  night  in  an  abbey  not  far 
from  Camelot,  and  on  the  next  morning  rode  for- 
ward until  they  came  to  a  forest.  Passing  through 
this,  they  at  length  found  themselves  in  a  valley 
near  a  tower.  Here  they  beheld  two  knights  fully 
armed  and  seated  on  their  war-horses,  while  twelve 
damsels  were  seen  to  pass  to  and  fro  beneath  a  tree. 

When  the  wanderers  came  nearer  they  saw  that 
on  that  tree  hung  a  white  shield,  and  that  as  the 
damsels  passed  by  this  they  spat  upon  it  and 
befouled  it  with  mire. 

"  Why  do  you  do  this  despite  to  the  shield  ?  '^ 
they  asked,  as  they  came  up. 

"  Sir  knights,^'  answered  the  danii^els,  "  we  have 
good  cause  for  what  we  do.     He  who  has  hung 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       121 

his  shield  here  is  a  knight  of  great  prowess,  but 
he  is  one  who  hates  all  ladies,  and  this  is  how  we 
repay  him  for  his  hatred." 

"  I  think  little  of  such  a  knight,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  Yet  it  may  be  that  he  has  good  cause  for  his 
hatred.  He  must  love  ladies  elsewhere,  if  not  here, 
if  he  be  so  good  a  knight  as  you  say.  For  it  is 
said  that  the  despiser  of  ladies  is  never  worthy  in 
arms.     What  is  the  name  of  this  knight  ?  " 

"His  name  is  Marhaus.  He  is  the  son  of  the 
king  of  Ireland." 

"  1  know  him  well,"  said  Uwaine.  "  There  is  no. 
man  of  more  valor  living.  1  saw  him  once  at  a 
tournament  where  no  knight  could  stand  before 
him." 

"  If  this  is  his  shield,"  said  Gawaine,  "  he  will 
soon  be  here  in  person,  and  it  may  not  prove  so 
easy  for  these  knights  to  face  him  on  horseback 
as  for  them  to  stand  by  and  see  his  shield  befouled. 
It  is  not  our  quarrel,  but  we  shall  stay  no  longer 
to  see  this  dishonor." 

Before  they  had  withdrawn  far,  however,  they 
saw  the  Irish  knight  riding  towards  his  shield,  and 
halted  to  note  what  would  follow.  At  sight  of  him 
the  damsels  shrieked  with  terror,  and  ran  so  wildly 
towards  the  turret  that  some  of  them  fell  by  the 
way.  But  one  of  the  knights  advanced  his  shield 
and  cried  loudly, — 

"  Sir  Marhaus,  defend  yourself !  " 

Then  he  and  Marhaus  rode  fiercely  together,  the 
knight  breaking  his  spear  without  effect,  while 
Marhaus  smote  him  in  return  so  hard  a  blow  that 
he  was  hurled  to  the  ground  with  a  broken  neck. 


122  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

Then  the  other  knight  rode  against  Marhaus,  but 
with  the  same  ill  success,  for  both  horse  and  man 
were  smitten  so  furiously  that  they  fell  to  the 
earth  dead. 

Then  the  knight  of  Ireland  rode  to  his  shield, 
and  when  he  saw  how  foully  it  had  been  used  he 
cried, — 

"  This  is  a  foul  shame ;  but  I  have  requited  it 
upon  those  dastards.  For  the  love  of  her  who  gave 
me  this  white  shield  I  shall  wear  it,  and  hang  mine 
where  it  was." 

Thereupon  he  took  the  white  shield,  and  left  in 
its  place  the  one  he  had  just  used. 

Then,  seeing  the  two  errant  knights,  he  asked 
them  what  they  did  there.  They  answered  that 
they  were  from  Arthur's  court,  and  had  ridden  in 
search  of  adventures. 

"  Then  vou  can  have  one  here/^  said  Marhaus. 
"  I  shall  be  glad  to  joust  with  you." 

He  rode  away  from  them  to  the  proper  range, 
without  waiting  for  a  reply. 

"  Let  him  go,"  said  Uwaine.  "  I  fear  he  is  more 
than  our  match." 

"  I  care  not  if  he  is,"  said  Gawaine.  "  However 
good  a  knight  he  be,  he  shall  not  challenge  us 
unanswered." 

"  Then  let  me  meet  him  first.  I  am  the  weaker, 
and  if  he  strikes  me  down  you  can  rievenge  me." 

With  these  words  Uwaine  took  his  place  and  rode 
against  the  Irish  knight,  but  with  such  ill  fortune 
that  he  was  hurled  to  the  earth  wjith  a  wounded 
side.  When  Gawaine  saw  this  he  prepared  for  the 
joust,  and  the  two  knights  rode  together  with  great 


THE  COUNTRY  OP  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       123 

force.  But,  as  luck  would  have  it,  Gawaine's  spear 
broke,  while  that  of  Marhaus  held  firm.  In  conse- 
quence, both  Gawaine  and  his  horse  went  to  the 
ground. 

In  an  instant  the  knight  was  on  his  feet,  sword 
in  hand,  and  advancing  towards  his  adversary. 
Marhaus  drew  his  sword  and  moved  upon  him 
mounted. 

"  Meet  me  on  f  oot,^'  cried  Gawaine,  "  or  I  will 
kill  your  liorse." 

"Gramercy,  you  teach  me  courtesy ,^^  said  Mar- 
haus. "  It  is  not  fair  for  one  knight  to  be  on  foot 
and  the  other  on  horse." 

Then  he  sprang  to  the  ground,  set  his  spear 
against  a  tree,  and  tied  his  horse.  This  done,  he 
drew  his  sword  and  advanced  upon  Gawaine. 

The  combat  that  succeeded  was  long  and  hotly 
contested,  beginning  at  nine  in  the  morning  and 
lasting  till  the  day  was  well  advanced.  Xever  had 
that  forest  known  so  obstinate  and  fierce  a  fight. 
And  from  nine  of  the  clock  till  the  hour  of  noon 
Gawaine  grew  stronger  and  stronger,  till  his  might 
was  thrice  increased  and  Marhaus  had  much  ado  to 
stand  before  him.  But  as  the  day  waned  from  noon 
onwards  Gawaine  grew  feeble,  while  the  strength 
of  Marhaus  steadily  increased,  his  form  seeming 
to  grow  larger  with  every  hour.  At  length  it  came 
that  Gawaine  could  scarcely  stand  before  him. 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Marhaus,  "  this  I  will  say,  that 
I  never  met  a  better  man  than  yourself,  and  we  have 
had  a  noble  passage  at  arms.  But  as  we  have  no 
quarrel,  and  I  can  see  you  are  growing  feeble,  it 
were  a  pity  to  do  you  more  harm.  If  you  are  will- 
ing, I  agree  to  end  the  fight." 


124  THE  TREASON  OP  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

"  That  should  I  have  said,  gentle  knight/'  an- 
swered Gawaine.  "  I  am  much  beholden  to  your 
courtesy/' 

Thereupon  they  took  off  their  helmets  and  kissed 
each  other,  and  swore  to  love  one  another  thence- 
forth as  brethren  in  arms.  Marhaus  prayed  that  the 
two  knights  would  lodge  with  him  that  night,  and 
they  rode  together  towards  his  dwelling. 

I  marvel,"  said  Gawaine,  as  they  rode  forward, 

that  so  good  a'  knight  as  you  should  love  no  ladies." 
I  love  not  such  as  those  minxes  of  the  tower, 
nor  any  of  their  sort,"  said  Marhaus.  "  They  are 
a  false-hearted  and  vile-thinking  crew.  But  to  all 
honorable  women  I  owe  the  best  of  my  knightly 


« 


service." 


They  soon  reached  the  dwelling,  which  was  in  a 
little  priory,  and  here  Marhaus  gave  them  the  best 
cheer  at  his  disposal,  the  more  so  when  he  learned 
that  they  were  sons  of  King  Arthur's  sisters.  Here 
they  remained  seven  days,  until  their  wounds  had 
fully  healed.  On  the  eighth  day  they  took  horse 
again  to  continue  their  journey. 

"  We  shall  not  part  so  lightly,"  said  Marhaus. 
"  I  shall  bring  you  through  the  forest,  and  mayhap 
ride  farther  with  vou." 

For  seven  days  more  they  rode  onward  without 
adventure.  Then  they  found  themselves  on  the 
borders  of  a  still  greater  forest,  in  what  was  known 
as  the  country  and  forest  of  Arroy  and  the  land  of 
strange  adventures. 

"  It  is  well  named,'-  said  Marhaus.  "  For  it  is 
said  that  no  knight  ever  rode  into  this  country  and 
failed  to  find  adventures  many  and  marvellous." 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       125 

They  rode  onward  into  the  forest  before  them, 
and  in  good  time  found  themselves  in  a  deep  and 
stony  valley,  traversed  by  a  fair  stream  of  water. 

Following  this  upward,  they  soon  came  to  a  fair 
fountain,  the  head  of  the  stream,  beside  which 
three  damsels  were  seated. 

Of  these,  the  eldest  was  not  less  than  threescore 
years  of  age.  She  wore  a  garland  of  gold  upon 
her  head,  and  her  hair  was  white  beneath  it.  The 
second  damsel  was  thirty  years  of  age,  and  she 
also  wore  a  circlet  of  gold.  The  third  was  not  over 
fifteen  years  old,  and  her  garland  was  of  flowers. 

The  knights  halted  and  looked  at  them  in  sur- 
prise, asking  them  why  they  sat  by  that  lonely 
fountain. 

"  We  are  here  to  await  knights-errant  who  come 
in  quest  of  adventures,"  they  said.  "  If  you  three 
knights  are  in  search  of  things  strange  and  stirring, 
each  of  you  must  choose  one  of  us.  When  this  is 
done  we  shall  lead  you  unto  three  highways,  one 
of  which  each  of  you  must  take,  and  his  damsel  with 
him.  This  day  twelvemonth  you  must  meet  here 
again,  and  to  all  this  you  must  pledge  your  troth, 
if  God  give  you  your  lives  to  return." 

"  You  speak  well,"  said  Marhaus.  "  Adventures 
we  seek,  and  no  true  knight-errant  hesitates  before 
the  unknown  and  the  dangerous.  We  shall  do  as 
you  say,  each  of  us  choose  one  of  you,  and  then, 
whatsoever  fortune  wills,  let  it  come." 

"  As  for  me,"  said  Uwaine,  "  since  I  am  the 
youngest  and  weakest  of  the  three,  I  choose  the 
eldest  damsel.  I  have  more  need  of  help  than 
either  of  you,  and  her  age  and  knowledge  may  aid 
me  well." 


126  THE  TREASON  OP  MORGAN  LE  PAY.     ' 

"  Then  I  shall  take  her  of  middle  age/'  said 
Marhaus.     "She  fits  me  best." 

"  I  thank  you  both,"  said  Gawaine.  "  You  ha.ve 
left  me  the  youngest  and  fairest,  and  the  one  most 
to  my  liking." 

This  said,  each  damsel  took  the  reins  of  her 
knight,  and  they  led  them  to  the  parting  of  the 
three  ways.  Here  the  knights  took  oath  to  meet 
at  the  fountain  that  day  twelvemonth  if  they  were 
living,  kissed  each  other,  and  departed,  each  knight 
taking  his  chosen  lady  on  his  steed  behind  him. 
Of  the  three  ways,  Uwaine  took  that  which  lay 
west,  Marhaus  that  which  lay  south,  and  Gawaine 
took  the  way  that  lay  north. 

Of  the  three  we  shall  first  follow  Gawaine,  who 
rode  forward  until  he  came  to  a  fair  manor,  where 
dwelt  an  old  knight. 

"  Are  there  any  adventures  to  be  found  in  this 
country  ?  "  he  asked  him. 

"  I  shall  show  you  some  marvellous  ones  to- 
morrow," said  his  host. 

In  the  morning,  Gawaine  and  the  old  knight  rode 
into  the  forest  of  adventures  till  they  came  to  a 
wide,  open  lawn,  upon  which  stood  a  cross.  Here 
they  halted  and  looked  about  them,  and  ere  long 
saw  approaching  a  knight  of  seemly  aspect,  who 
made  the  bitterest  lamentations  as  ho  advanced. 
When  he  saw  Gawaine  he  saluted  him,  and  hoped 
that  God  would  send  him  honor. 

"  As  to  that,  gramercy,"  said  Gawaine.  "  1 
pray  God,  in  return,  that  he  send  you  honor  and 
worship." 

"That  will  not  come,"  said  the  knight.  "He 
sendeth  me  but  sorrow  and  shame." 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.      127 

As  he  spoke  he  passed  on  to  the  other  side  of 
the  lawn.  Here  Gawaine  saw  ten  knights,  stand- 
ing with  shields  and  spears  ready  against  this  one 
warrior.  But  he  rode  against  them  one  by  one, 
thrusting  some  over  their  horses^  tails,  and  hurling 
others  to  the  ground,  horse  and  man,  until  with  one 
spear  he  had  unhorsed  them  all. 

But  when  they  were  all  ten  on  foot  they  went  to 
the  dolorous  knight,  who  stood  stone  still,  pulled 
him  from  his  horse,  and  tied  him  beneath  the 
animal,  without  the  least  resistance  on  his  part. 
This  done,  they  led  him  away,  thus  shamefully 
bound. 

"  That  is  an  ugly  sight,"  said  Gawaine.  "  Why 
does  a  knight  of  such  prowess  as  this  suffer  himself 
to  be  so  vilely  treated  ?  " 

"  Sir,"  said  the  damsel  to  Gawaine,  "  why  helped 
you  not  that  good  knight  ?  " 

"  He  seems  to  want  no  help,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  He  could  have  taken  care  of  himself  if  he  would." 

'^  You  had  no  desire  to  help  him,"  retorted  the 
damsel,  "  or  you  would  not  have  stood  by  and 
seen  so  noble  a  warrior  so  foully  served." 

As  they  talked  a  knight  appeared  on  the  other 
side  of  the  lawn,  all  armed  but  the  head.  And 
opposite  him  came  a  dwarf  on  horseback  similarly 
armed.  He  had  a  great  mouth  and  a  short  nose, 
and  was  as  ill  favored  as  one  would  care  to  see. 

"  Where  is  the  lady  who  should  meet  us  here  ?  " 
asked  the  dwarf. 

In  response  thereto  a  fair  lady  rode  from  the 
wood,  mounted  on  a  handsome  palfrey.     On  seeing 


128  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LB  PAY. 

her  the  knight  and'  the  dwarf  began  to  strive  in  hot 
words  for  her,  each  saying  that  she  should  be  his 
prize. 

"  Yonder  is  a  knight  at  the  cross,"  said  the  dwarf, 
at  length.  "  Let  us  leave  it  to  him,  and  abide  by 
his  decision.^' 

"  I  agree  to  that,"  said  the  knight. 

Thereupon  they  rode  to  Gawaine  and  told  him 
the  purpose  of  their  strife. 

"  Do  you  put  *  the  matter  into  my  hands  ?  "  he 
asked. 

Yes,"  they  both  replied. 

Then  this  is  my  decision.  Let  the  lady  stand 
between  you  and  make  her  own  choice.  The  one 
she  chooses,  he  shall  have  her." 

This  was  done,  and  at  once  the  lady  turned  from 
the  knight  and  went  to  the  dwarf.  Then  the  dwarf 
took  her  and  went  singing  away,  while  the  knight 
rode  in  grief  and  sorrow  into  the  forest. 

But  the  adventures  of  that  day  were  not  ended, 
for  soon  afterwards  two  armed  knights  rode  from 
the  forest,  and  one  of  them  cried  out  loudly, — 

"  Sir  Gawaine,  knight  of  King  Arthur,  I  am 
here  to  joust  with  you.     So  make  ready." 

"  Since  you  know  me,  I  shall  not  fail  you," 
answered  Gawaine. 

Then  the  knights  drew  apart,  and  rode  so  furi- 
ously together  that  both  were  unhorsed.  Springing 
up,  they  drew  their  swords  and  continued  the  battle 
on  foot. 

Meanwhile,  the  second  knight  went  to  the  damsel 
and  asked  why  she  stayed  with  that  knight,  and 
begged  her  to  go  with  him. 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       129 

"  That  I  will  do/'  she  replied.  "  I  like  not  the 
way  Gawaine  acted  just  now,  when  one  brave  knight 
was  overturned  by  ten  dastards.  So  let  us  go  while 
they  fight." 

The  combat  continued  long,  and  then,  as  the 
knights  seemed  evenly  matched,  they  ceased  in 
amity,  the  stranger  knight  inviting  Gawaine  to 
spend  the  night  at  his  lodge.  As  they  rode  thither 
he  asked  his  host, — 

"Who  is  this  valiant  champion  that  overturns 
ten  knights,  and  then  suffers  them  to  bear  him  off 
bound  hand  and  foot?  I  never  saw  so  shameful  a 
thing  done." 

"  The  thing  has  happened  ten  times  and  more," 
said  Sir  Carados.  "  The  knight  is  one  of  noble 
prowess,  named  Sir  Pelleas,  and  he  loves  a  great 
lady  of  this  country  named  Ettard,  who  loves  him 
not  in  return.  What  you  have  seen  came  about  in 
this  way.  There  was  of  late  days  a  great  tournament 
in  this  country,  at  which  Pelleas  struck  down  every 
knight  who  was  opposed  to  him,  unhorsing  twenty 
knights  within  three  days.  His  valor  and  prowess 
won  him  the  prize,  which  was  a  good  sword,  and  a 
golden  circlet  to  be  given  to  the  fairest  lady  at 
the  lists.  This  circlet  of  gold  he  gave  to  the  lady 
Ettard,  whom  he  chose  for  the  sovereign  of  his  heart 
and  the  lady  he  loved  above  all  women.  But  she 
was  so  proud  and  haughty  that  she  returned  him 
scorn  for  his  love,  and  though  he  has  followed  her 
to  her  home  she  will  not  listen  to  his  suit,  or  admit 
him  in  honor  to  her  presence.  He  is  lodged  here 
near  her,  but  can  gain  sight  of  her  only  in  a  shame- 
ful way.     Every  week  she  sends  knights  to  fight 

9 


130  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

with  him,  and  when  he  has  overcome  them  he  suffers 
them  to  take  him  prisoner  that  he  may  feast  his 
eyes  on  the  face  of  his  loved  lady.  But  she  does 
him  great  despite,  for  sometimes  she  has  him 
brought  in  tied  to  his  horse^s  tail,  and  sometimes 
bound  under  the  horse,  or  in  any  other  shameful 
manner  she  can  think  of.  For  all  this  he  will  not 
leave,  but  makes  himself  a  martyr  to  his  love." 

"  He  is  a  noble  knight,  and  I  greatly  pity  him,'^ 
said  Gawaine.  "  I  shall  seek  him  to-morrow  in 
tfie  forest,  and  do  what  I  can  to  help  him." 

In  the  morning  he  met  Sir  Pelleas,  as  he  had 
promised,  and  heard  from  him  the  story  of  his  woe. 

"  If  I  loved  her  not  so  truly  I  should  rather  die 
a  hundred  times  than  suffer  such  despite,"  he  said. 
"  But  I  trust  that  she  will  pity  and  love  me  at 
last." 

"  Let  me  aid  you,  so  far  as  I  can,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  I  promise  to  do  my  utmost  to  gain  you  the  love 
of  your  lady." 

"  Tell  me  who,  and  of  what  court,  you  are,  my 
good  friend  ?  "   asked  Pelleas. 

"  My  name  is  Gawaine ;  I  am  nephew  to  King 
Arthur,  and  King  Lot  of  Orkney  was  my  father." 

"  My  name  is  Pelleas,"  answered  the  lovelorn 
knight.  "  I  was  born  in  the  Isles,  and  am  lord 
of  many  isles,  but  never  till  this  unhappy  time 
have  I  loved  a  lady.  I  pray  you  help  mo  faithfully, 
for  I  get  nothing  from  her  but  vile  rebuke.  She 
will  not  even  hold  me  as  prisoner,  that  T  might  see 
her  daily,  but  robs  me  of  my  horse  and  armor,  and 
has  me  thrust  despitefully  from  her  gates.  She 
lives  in  a  strong  castle  near  by,  and  is  lady  of  all 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       131 

this  country.  I  fear  you  will  not  find  it  easy  to 
obtain  entrance." 

"  I  shall  use  art  instead  of  strength/'  said 
Gawaine.  "  Lend  me  your  horse  and  armor,  and 
I  will  ride  to  her  castle  and  tell  her  I  have  slain 
you.  She  will  let  me  in  at  that.  Once  admitted, 
I  shall  do  my  best  to  win  you  her  love." 

He  plighted  his  honor  to  this,  and  therewith  they 
changed  horses  and  armor. 

Leaving  the  knight  of  the  doleful  visage,  Ga- 
waine rode  to  Ettard's  castle,  whom  he  found  in 
her  pavilion  outside  the  gate.  On  seeing  him  she 
hastily  fled  to  the  castle,  but  he  called  her  loudly, 
declaring  that  he  was  not  Pelleas,  and  that  he  had 
slain  the  knight  and  won  his  horse  and  armor. 

"  Take  off  your  helm,"  she  replied.  "  Let  me  see 
your  face." 

Gawaine  did  so,  and  when  she  saw  that  he  spoke 
the  truth  she  bade  him  alight  and  led  him  into  the 
castle,  questioning  him  who  he  was  and  how  he  had 
slain  her  tormenting  admirer. 

"  I  am  sorry  for  his  death,"  she  said,  "  for  he  was 
a  worthy  knight ;  but  of  all  men  I  hated  him  most, 
and  could  never  rid  myself  of  his  importunities. 
As  for  you.  Sir  Gawaine,  since  you  have  done  me 
this  service,  I  shall  be  your  lady,  for  I  cannot  but 
love  you." 

Then  Gawaine  was  so  entranced  by  the  lady 
Ettard's  blue  eyes  and  fair  face  that  he  shamefully 
forgot  his  word  of  honor,  and  warmly  returned 
her  love.  He  remained  with  her  and  her  knights 
in  the  castle,  so  happy  in  her  presence  as  to  ignore 
all  the  claims  of  duty  and  knightly  faith. 


132  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

It  was  now  the  month  of  May,  and  the  air  had 
grown  warm  and  balmy.  So  it  happened  one  even- 
ing that  they  all  left  the  castle  to  enjoy  themselves 
on  the  flowery  meads  outside.  Believing  Pelleas 
to  be  dead,  Ettard  lost  all  dread  of  unwelcome 
intrusion,  and  suggested  that  they  should  spend 
the  night  in  the  open  air,  lulled  to  sleep  by  the  soft 
winds  and  the  perfume  of  flowers. 

But  by  fortune  it  chanced  that  Pelleas,  hearing 
no  word  from  Gawaine,  that  night  mounted  his 
horse  and  rode  to  the  castle.  It  was  a  late  hour, 
and  he  was  surprised  to  see  pavilions  erected  out- 
side the  gate,  and  couches  spread  in  the  open  air. 
As  he  came  near  he  saw  knights  and  ladies  asleep 
on  these,  while  side  by  side  lay  Ettard  and  Gawaine, 
locked  in  deep  slumber. 

Anger  and  pain  so  filled  the  knight's  heart  at 
this  that  he  drew  his  sword  to  slay  his  faithless 
friend,  but  on  calmer  thought  he  laid  the  naked 
blade  athwart  the  throats  of  knight  and  lady  and 
rocle  away.  On  reaching  his  tent,  he  told  his  atten- 
dants what  treachery  he  had  endured,  and  that  he 
had  resolved  to  take  to  his  bed  and  lie  there  till  he 
should  die. 

"  And  when  I  am  dead  I  charge  you  to  take  my 
heart  and  bear  it  to  the  lady  Ettard  in  a  silver  dish, 
and  tell  her  that  her  falseness  has  slain  the  faithful- 
est  of  lovers." 

Meanwhile  Gawaine  and  Ettard  awoke,  and  their 
dread  was  great  on  finding  the  sword  across  their 
throats. 

"  It  is  Pelleas's  sword  !  "  she  cried.  "  You  have 
betraved  him  and  me  both,  for  you  lied  to  me  in 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       133 

saying  that  you  had  killed  him.  Only  that  he  has 
proved  himself  a  man  of  true  honor,  he  would  have 
slain  us  both.  Leave  me,  traitor!  Never  let  me 
see  your  false  face  again  !  ^' 

Gawaine  had  no  words  in  answer,  but  hastily 
mounted  his  horse  and  rode  into  the  forest,  feeling 
at  heart  that  he  had  proved  a  traitor  both  to  honor 
and  love. 

When  morning  dawned  it  happened  that  Nimue, 
the  damsel  of  the  lake,  who  by  chance  had  come 
into  that  country,  met  with  a  follower  of  Sir  Pel- 
leas,  who  was  grieving  sorely  for  the  ill  fortune  of 
his  master.  She  asked  him  the  cause  of  his  grief, 
and  he  told  her  the  woeful  tale  of  the  lovelorn 
knight,  and  how  he  had  taken  to  his  bed,  vowing 
never  again  to  rise. 

"  He  shall  not  die  of  love,  I  wai^rant  you  that," 
she  said.  "  Bring  me  to  him.  I  promise  you  that 
she  who  has  treated  him  so  vilely  shall  feel  all  the 
pain  she  has  made  him  endure.'^ 

She  was  accordingly  brought  to  the  tent  of  Pel- 
leas,  and  a  feeling  of  pity  and  love  grew  in  her 
heart  as  she  looked  on  his  noble  and  woe-worn  face 
while  he  lay  asleep.  Therefore  she  deepened  his 
slumber  with  a  spell  of  enchantment,  and  charging 
that  no  man  should  wake  him  before  her  return, 
she  rode  through  the  forest  to  Ettard's  castle. 

Within  two  hours  she  brought  the  lady  Ettard 
to  the  tent,  where  Pelleas  still  lay  wrapped  in  deep 
slumber. 

"  You  should  do  penance  for  life  to  murder  such 
a  knight  as  thig,'^  she  said.  "  You  have  treated  a 
true   lover  with  shameful  despite,  and  for  love's 


134  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  PAY. 

sake  you  shall  pay  the  penalty  of  your  misdeeds/^ 

Then  she  threw  so  deep  a  spell  of  enchantment 
on  the  proud  lady  that  her  former  scorn  turned  to 
the  deepest  love,  and  her  heart  went  out  to  Pelleas 
as  if  it  would  break  with  sorrow  and  remorse. 

"  Alas !  "  she  cried,  "  I  hated  him  above  all  men. 
What  has  befallen  me  that  I  love  him  now  with 
mv  whole  soul  ?  '^ 

"  It  is  God's  righteous  judgment/^  said  Nimue. 

As  they  spoke  Pelleas  awoke,  and  when  he  looked 
upon  Ettard  his  eyes  filled  with  scorn  and  hatred. 

"  Awa}^  traitress !  "  he  cried.  "  Never  again 
come  within  my  sight.  You  have  taught  me  to  hate 
you  as  much  as  I  ever  loved. '^ 

These  scornful  words  wounded  Ettard  to  the  soul. 
She  turned  away  weeping  bitterly,  and  left  the 
tent  overwhelmed  with  anguish. 

"Take  your  horse  and  leave  this  country,  Sir 
Pelleas,^'  said  the  damsel.  "  Love  not  again  till  you 
can  give  your  heart  to  a  lady  who  is  worthy  of  it." 

"  1  have  found  such  a  one  now,"  said  the  knight, 
fixing  his  eyes  with  warm  feeling  upon  her  face^ 
"  This  lady  Ettard  has  treated  me  despitefully  and 
turned  all  my  love  for  her  to  hatred  and  scorn. 
But  the  love  I  felt  for  her  has  gone  out  to  you." 

"  Thank  me  for  your  delivery,"  said  Nimue. 
"  It  is  too  soon  to  talk  of  love.  But  this  I  may 
say,  that  if  you  love  me  as  you  vow,  you  shall  not 
find  me  another  Ettard." 

Soon  after  Pelleas  arose  and  armed,  and  bidding 
his  men  to  follow  with  the  pavilions  and  furniture, 
rode  into  the  forest  with  the  damsel  of  the  lake,  for 
whom  the  love  in  his  heart  grew  each  moment 
warmer. 


THE  COUNTRY  OF  STRANGE  ADVENTURES.       135 

And  thus  this  woeful  story  ends  in  true  lovers 
joy  and  retribution ;  for  the  false  lady  Ettard  died 
in  lovelorn  sorrow,  but  Pelleas  and  Nimue  lived 
together  in  true  love  during  the  remainder  of  their 
days,  she  becoming  his  dear  lady  and  wife. 

Meanwhile  Marhaus  and  Uwaine  pursued  their 
course  and  had  their  adventures,  but  they  were  not 
so  many  and  strange  as  those  of  Gawaine,  and  there- 
fore we  shall  not  tell  them  in  full. 

As  for  Uwaine,  who  rode  away  with  the  old  dam- 
sel, he  gained  great  honor  at  a  tournament  near  the 
Welsh  marches,  winning  the  prize,  which  was  a 
gerfalcon,  and  a  white  steed  with  trappings  of  cloth 
of  gold.  Many  other  adventures  he  had,  and  at  last 
came  to  the  castle  of  a  noble  lady,  who  was  called 
the  Lady  of  the  Eock.  Her  lands  had  been  taken 
from  her  by  two  robber  knights,  named  Sir  Edward 
and  Sir  Hue  of  the  Red  Castle.  These  Uwaine 
fought  together,  and  with  such  good  fortune  that  he 
killed  Sir  Edward  and  forced  Sir  Hue  to  surrender 
the  ladv's  lands.  Then  he  dwelt  at  the  castle  of  the 
Lady  of  the  Kock  for  six  months,  till  he  was  healed 
of  the  many  and  deep  wounds  he  had  received  in 
his  battle  with  the  robber  knights. 

Meanwhile,  Marhaus  rode  southward  witli  the 
damsel  of  thirty  summers.  Many  adventures  he 
had,  and  he  won  a  circlet  of  gold  as  the  victor  in 
a  tournament.  At  length  he  stopped  at  the  castle 
of  a  noble  earl  named  Fergus,  whose  lands  were 
harried  by  a  giant  named  Taulard.  Him  Marhaus 
proffered  to  fight,  as  neither  the  earl  nor  any  of 
his  men  dared  meet  him. 

Fierce  and  perilous  was  the  battle  that  followed, 
for  the  giant  was  of  monstrous  height  and  strength. 


136  THE  TREASON  OF  MORGAN  LE  FAY. 

and  armed  with  iron  clubs  and  great  battle-axes. 
But  after  a  terrible  contest,  Marhaus,  by  a  nimble 
stroke,  cut  off  Tau lard's  right  arm.  Then  the  giant, 
bellowing  with  pain  and  terror,  fled,  and  rushed 
into  a  stream  of  water  beyond  his  pursuer's  reach. 
But  stones  were  brought  to  Marhaus  by  Fergus's 
men,  and  with  these  he  battered  the  giant  so  sorely 
that  at  length  he  fell  over  into  the  water,  where 
he  was  quickly  drowned. 

Afterwards  the  victorious  champion  went  to  the 
giant's  castle,  where  he  found  in  close  captivity 
twenty-four  ladies  and  twelve  knights.  These  he 
delivered  from  prison.  He  found  also  a  great  store 
of  wealth,  enough  to  make  him  rich  for  the  remain- 
der of  his  life. 

When  the  year  ended  the  three  knights  met  again 
at  the  fountain,  two  of  them  with  their  damsels; 
but  Gawaine  had  lost  his,  and  had  come  back  much 
shorn  of  honor.  Soon  after  they  met  by  chance 
a  messenger  from  King  Arthur,  who  had  long  been 
seeking  the  banished  knights,  with  orders  to  bring 
them  back  to  the  court. 

So  the  three  knights  journeyed  to  Camelot,  where 
the  king  received  them  graciously,  and  listened  with 
admiration  to  the  story  of  their  adventures.  And 
there,  at  the  feast  of  Pentecost,  came  Pelleas  and 
Ximue,  true  lovers  plighted.  Then  were  held  high 
feasts  and  tournaments,  where  many  noble  knights 
splintered  spears  and  much  honor  was  lost  and  won. 
And  here  Marhaus  and  Pelleas  bore  themselves  with 
such  noble  and  mighty  prowess,  that  all  men  vowed 
the  glory  of  the  tournament  was  theirs,  and  King 
Arthur,  glad  to  reward  such  deeds  of  valor,  made 
them  Knights  of  the  Table  Round. 


BOOK  IV. 

LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 


CHAPTER  I. 

HOW  TROUBLE  CAME  TO  LIONEL  AND  HECTOR. 

After  the  strange  deeds  and  adventures  that 
have  just  been  described,  a  season  of  war  came 
again  to  King  Arthur  and  his  realm,  through  which 
he  won  great  honor  and  renown.  For  Lucius,  the 
Emperor  of  Rome,  sent  ambassadors  to  Arthur, 
demanding  tribute;  and  when  he  proudly  refused 
this  demand  Lucius  gathered  a  great  army  and 
invaded  the  tributary  domains  of  Arthur,  in  Gaul. 

Long  and  fierce  was  the  war  that  followed,  for 
Arthur  crossed  to  Gaul  with  all  the  power  of  his 
realm;  fought  and  killed,  single-handed,  a  huge 
giant  who  dwelt  on  St.  Michael's  Mount;  defeated 
the  army  of  Rome,  and  killed  the  emperor  in  single 
combat;  and  in  the  end  was  crowned  emperor,  in 
the  imperial  city  of  Rome. 

All  this  story  the  chronicles  give  at  length,  and 
tell  us  also  that  in  this  war  the  noble  Lancelot  du 
Lake,  son  of  King  Ban  of  Gaul,  gained  his  first 
measure  of  renown. 

After  the  war  had  ended  and  the  victorious  host 
returned  to  England,  many  adventures  came  to 
Lancelot,  some  of  which  we  must  here  tell.     Great 

137 


138  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

indeed  was  the  valor  and  might  of  this  worthiest 
of  knights,  who  in  after  years  proved  himself  in 
knightly  prowess  and  ehivalrie  honor  the  noblest 
of  men.  In  tournaments  and  deeds  of  arms,  in 
sportive  war  or  battle  for  life  or  death,  he  passed 
all  other  knights,  and  was  never  overcome  but  by 
treason  or  enchantment. 

After  Arthur's  return  from  Rome  sports  and 
feasts  were  given,  and  jousts  and  tournaments  held, 
in  which  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table  took  part, 
many  who  had  gained  no  great  fame  in  the  war  now 
proving  themselves  able  and  worthy  warriors.  But 
above  them  all  Lancelot  displayed  such  skill  and 
prowess  that  he  increased  in  honor  and  worship 
beyond  any  knight  of  Arthur's  court. 

And,  as  fortune  and  fate  decreed,  he  loved  Queen 
Guenever  above  all  other  ladies,  while  she  held  him 
in  favor  above  all  other  knights, — a  favor  that  was 
destined  thereafter  to  bring  deep  sorrow  and  trouble 
to  England's  realm.  For  her  sake  he  did  many 
noble  deeds  of  arms,  and  he  was  looked  upon  as  her 
especial  champion  by  all  the  court. 

After  the  return  from  Rome  Lancelot  rested  long 
at  the  court,  taking  part  in  all  its  feasts  and  gaye- 
ties.  But  in  time  he  grew  weary  of  sport  and  play, 
and  of  the  idle  ways  and  empty  flatteries  of  cour- 
tiers, and  felt  a  strong  desire  to  wander  abroad  in 
search  of  strange  adventures.  So  he  bade  his 
nephew,  Sir  Lionel,  to  make  ready,  saying  to  him 
that  they  two  would  leave  the  court  and  ride  as 
knights-errant  through  the  land,  to  right  wrongs 
and  punish  crimes,  to  rescue  the  oppressed  and 
overthrow  the  proud  and  haughty,  and  knightly 
to  do  and  dare  wherever  they  went. 


HOW  TBOUBLE  CAME  TO  LIONEL  AND  HECTOR.     139 

So  on  a  day  in  spring,  when  the  summer  was  com- 
ing with  its  flowers  to  adorn  the  rich  green  of  the 
grassy  meads,  and  the  birds  sang  gayly  in  the  trees, 
the  two  knights  armed  themselves  at  all  points  and 
rode  abroad,  passing  soon  through  a  deep  forest 
and  into  a  verdant  plain  beyond. 

Noon  now  came  on,  and  the  weather  grew  close 
and  sultry,  so  that  Lancelot  became  drowsy.  This 
he  told  to  Lionel,  who  pointed  to  a  large  apple-tree 
by  a  hedge,  and  said, — 

"  Yonder  is  a  cool  shadow.  There  we  may  rest 
ourselves  and  our  horses  till  the  noontide  heat  has 
passed." 

"  You  speak  to  the  point,"  said  Lancelot.  "  Not 
for  seven  years  have  I  been  so  sleepy  as  I  am  now  ?  " 

They  thereupon  alighted,  and  tied  their  horses 
to  neighboring  trees,  and  Lancelot  laid  himself 
down  beneath  the  apple-boughs,  with  his  helmet 
under  his  head  for  a  pillow.  Soon  he  was  in  deep 
slumber,  though  Lionel  kept  awake. 

As  they  lay  thus  three  knights  came  riding  by 
in  panic  fear,  pushing  their  horses  to  the  utmost 
speed,  while  a  single  knight  followed  them  in 
furious  pursuit.  So  well-made  and  strong-limbed 
a  man  as  this  Lionel  thought  he  had  never  seen 
nor  one  in  all  respects  so  fully  armed. 

As  he  looked,  the  pursuing  knight  overtook  one 
of  the  fugitives,  and  with  a  thrust  of  his  spear  flung 
him  prostrate  to  the  ground.  Then  he  served  the 
other  two  in  the  same  manner.  This  done,  he 
alighted  and  bound  the  three  knights  with  tlieir 
own  bridle-reins. 

When  Lionel  saw  this,  anger  filled  his  soul,  and 


140  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

he  thought  to  win  honor  in  a  bout  of.  arms  with 
this  vigorous  champion,  so  he  quietly  took  his 
horse,  so  as  not  to  waken  Lancelot,  and  rode  towards 
the  victor,  loudly  bidding  him  turn  and  try  his 
fortune  in  a  joust. 

But  the  ambitious  young  knight  soon  found  that 
he  had  let  youthful  pride  bring  him  into  trouble, 
for  the  strong  warrior  smote  him  so  hard  a  blow 
that  horse  and  man  went  together  to  the  earth. 
Then  the  victor  alighted  and  served  Lionel  as  he 
had  done  the  others,  binding  him  and  flinging  him 
athwart  his  own  horse. 

He  did  the  same  with  the  three  others,  and  rode 
away  with  his  prisoners,  until  he  came  to  a  castle 
that  lay  beyond  the  plain.  Here  he  forced  them 
to  remove  their  armor,  and  beat  their  naked  skin 
with  thorns  till  they  were  ready  to  swoon  with  the 
pain.  Then  he  had  them  thrust  into  a  deep  prison 
where  were  many  other  knights,  whose  groans  and 
lamentations  filled  the  air  with  doleful  sounds. 

Through  all  this  Lancelot  slept  on,  nor  did  he 
waken  from  his  slumber  till  another  misadventure 
had  taken  place.  For  Sir  Hector  de  Maris,  the 
brother  of  Lionel,  finding  that  Lancelot  had  left 
the  court  to  seek  adventures,  was  angry  that  he 
had  not  been  asked  to  keep  him  company,  and  rode 
hastily  after  him,  hoping  to  overtake  him. 

After  he  had  ridden  long  in  the  forest  he  met 
a  man  dressed  like  a  forester,  and  asked  him  if 
any  knightly  adventures  could  be  found  near  by. 

"  Sir  knight,"  answered  the  forester,  "  I  know 
this  country  well,  and  can  promise  you  all,  and 
mayhap  more,  than  you  want.     Within  a  mile  of 


HOW  TROUBLE  CAME  TO  LIONEL  AND  HECTOR.      141 

here  is  a  strong  manor;  by  that  manor,  on  the 
left  hand,  is  a  fair  ford  for  horses  to  drink  at; 
over  that  ford  there  grows  a  spreading  tree;  and 
on  that  tree  hang  many  shields  which  good  knights 
once  wielded.  On  the  trunk  of  the  tree  you  will 
see  a  basin  of  brass  and  copper,  and  if  you  seek 
an  adventure  you  have  but  to  strike  that  basin 
thrice  with  the  butt  of  your  spear.  If  then  you  do 
not  soon  hear  tidings  of  interest,  you  will  have  the 
best  fortune  of  any  knight  who  has  passed  through 
this  forest  for  many  a  long  year." 

"  Gramercy,  for  your  tidings,"  said  Hector,  and 
rode  rapidly  on. 

Soon  he  came  to  the  manor  and  the  tree,  and 
saw  the  shields  of  which  the  forester  had  told  him, 
and  to  his  surprise  and  grief  he  noted  among  them 
the  shield  of  his  brother  Lionel,  and  many  more 
that  he  knew  belonged  to  Round  Table  knights. 
Then,  with  a  heart  full  of  thoughts  of  revenge,  he 
beat  upon  the  basin  roundly  with  his  spear,  until 
its  clang  rung  far  and  wide.  This  done,  he  turned 
his  horse  and  let  him  drink  at  the  ford. 

As  he  stood  there  he  heard  a  loud  voice  behind 
him,  bidding  him  come  out  of  the  water  and  make 
ready,  and  looking  round  he  beheld  a  powerfully- 
built  knight  on  a  strong  horse. 

Hector  wheeled  his  horse  sharply,  and  putting 
his  spear  in  rest  rode  furiously  upon  this  knight, 
striking  him  so  fierce  a  blow  that  his  horse  turned 
twice  around. 

"  Well  done,"  said  the  stranger.  "  That  was  a 
knightly  blow.     But  beware,  it  is  my  turn  now." 

As  he  spoke  he  spurred  his  horse  at  full  speed 


142  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

upon  Hector,  and  struck  him  so  skilfully  that  the 
spear-head  passed  under  his  right  arm  and  hore 
him  clear  of  the  saddle  into  the  air.  Then,  car- 
rying the  knight  like  a  trussed  hare  on  his  spear, 
the  victor  rode  onward  into  his  own  open  hall,  and 
flung  his  captive  down  in  the  middle  of  the  floor. 

"  You  have  done  more  to  me  than  any  knight 
has  done  for  twelve  years  past,"  said  the  victor, 
whose  name  was  Sir  Turquine.  "  Therefore  I  will 
grant  you  your  life  and  the  liberty  of  the  castle, 
but  you  must  swear  to  be  my  prisoner  until  death/^ 

"  That  will  I  never  promise,"  said  Hector.  "  T 
will  remain  captive  to  no  man  if  I  can  free  myself.'' 

"  Then  I  shall  take  care  that  you  do  not  escape," 
said  Turquine. 

With  these  words  he  made  Hector,  on  pain  of 
death,  remove  his  armor,  and  then  scourged  him 
with  thorns  as  he  had  done  the  others,  and  flung 
him  into  the  prison  where  lay  so  many  of  his 
fellows. 

When  Hector  saw  his  brother  Lionel  among 
these  his  heart  was  readv  to  break  with  sorrow. 

"  What   has   happened    to    Lancelot  ? "     he    de- 
manded.    "  You  rode  with  him,  and  here  you  are 
a  prisoner.     Alas !    tell  me  not  that  any  harm  has 
come  to  him." 

"Where  he  is  and  what  he  does  I  cannot  tell," 
said  Lionel.  "  I  left  him  asleep  under  an  apple- 
tree  and  rode  alone  on  this  dolorous  venture.  Would 
that  I  had  wakened  him  first." 

"  Alas !  "  cried  the  knights,  "  we  may  never  be 
delivered  unless  Lancelot  comes  to  our  aid.  Of 
all  knights  living  we  know  none  but  him  who  is  a 
fair  match  for  Turquine,  our  robber  lord." 


THE  CONTEST  OF  THE 'FOUR  QUEENS.    143 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE  CONTEST  OF  THE  FOUR  QUEENS. 

Noon  had  passed  by,  but  the  day  was  still  warm, 
and  Lancelot  lay  yet  in  deep  slumber,  dreaming 
nothing  of  what  had  happened  while  he  slept.  But 
now  there  rode  by  the  apple-tree  under  which  he 
lay  a  royal  and  brilliant  cavalcade.  For  in  it  were 
four  queens  of  high  estate,  who  were  mounted  on 
white  mules,  and  attired  in  regal  robes,  while  beside 
them  rode  four  knights  who  bore  on  their  spear- 
points  a  cloth  of  green  silk,  so  held  as  to  shield  the 
queens  from  the  heat  of  the  sun. 

As  they  rode  by  Lancelot's  place  of  slumber  they 
were  startled  by  the  loud  neigh  of  a  war-horse,  and 
looking  about  them  they  became  aware  of  the  sleep- 
ing knight  beneath  the  apple-tree.  They  drew  near 
and  looked  upon  his  face,  and  at  once  knew  him 
for  Lancelot  du  Lake.  Then  they  began  pleasantly 
to  strive  as  to  which  of  them  should  have  the  sleep- 
ing knight  for  her  lover. 

"  Let  me  settle  this  debate,"  said  Morgan  le  Fay, 
who  was  one  of  the  queens.  "  I  shall  by  enchant- 
ment make  his  sleep  hold  for  six  hours  to  come, 
and  shall  have  him  borne  to  my  castle.  When  he 
is  safely  within  my  power  I  shall  remove  the  en- 
chantment, and  then  he  shall  be  made  to  choose 
which  of  us  he  will  have  for  his  love.  If  he  refuse 
us  all  he  shall  pay  the  penalty." 

She  did  as  she  had  said.  Lancelot  was  laid  sleep- 
ing upon  his  shield  and  borne  on  horseback  between 


144  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

.  two  knights,  and  so  brought  to  a  castle  named 
Chariot,  where  he  was  laid,  still  slumbering,  in  a 
chamber.  At  night-fall  a  fair  damsel  was  sent  to 
him  with  his  supper  ready  prepared.  By  that  time 
the  enchantment  was  past,  and  Lancelot  woke  as  the 
damsel  came  into  his  chamber  and  asked  him  how  he 
fared. 

"  That  I  am  not  ready  to  say,"  answered  Lance- 
lot ;  "  for  I  know  not  how  I  came  into  this  castle 
unless  it  were  by  enchantment." 

"  As  to  that  I  cannot  speak,"  she  replied.  "  I 
can  but  bid  you  eat.  If  you  be  such  a  knight  as 
men  say,  I  shall  tell  you  more  to-morrow  mom." 

"  Thanks,  fair  damsel,"  said  Lancelot.  ^^  It 
pleases  me  to  have  your  good  will." 

Little  comfort  had  the  good  knight  of  that  night's 
sleep;  but  early  in  the  morning  there  came  to  him 
the  four  queens,  each  dressed  in  her  richest  attire, 
adorned  with  rare  jewels,  and  as  beautiful  as  art  and 
skill  could  make  them. 

They  bade  him  good  morning  and  he  returned 
their  greeting,  looking  upon  them  with  eyes  of 
admiration,  but  not  of  love. 

"  You  are  our  prisoner,  sir  knight,"  said  Mor- 
gan. "  We  know  you  well.  You  are  Lancelot  of 
the  Lake,  King  Ban's  son.  And  well  we  under- 
stand that  you  are  named  the  worthiest  knight 
living,  and  that  men  say  that  no  lady  in  the  land 
but  Queen  Guenever  can  have  your  love.  But  this 
we  would  have  you  know,  that  you  must  choose 
one  of  us  four  as  your  heart's  queen,  for  if  you 
refuse  you  shall  never  see  Arthur's  queen  again.  I 
am  Morgan  le  Fay,  queen  of  the  land  of  Gore,  and 


THE  CONTEST  OF  THE  FOUB  QUEENS.    145 

here  is  the  Queen  of  Northgalis,  the  Queen  of  East- 
land, and  the  Queen  of  the  Out  Islands.  We  bid 
you  to  forget  Guenever  and  choose  of  us  the  one 
you  will  have  for  your  love.  If  you  choose  not  it 
will  be  worse  for  you,  for  I  shall  hold  you  in  prison 
until  death." 

"  This  is  a  hard  chance/'  said  Lancelot,  "  that  I 
must  die  in  prison  or  profess  a  love  that  I  do  not 
feel.  Let  me  tell  you  this,  though  I  die  twice  in 
your  dungeon  I  will  have  none  of  you,  for  you 
are  false  enchantresses  and  not  true  dames  for 
honest  men  to  love.  As  for  dame  Guenever,  were 
I  at  liberty  I  would  prove  it  on  all  the  knights  whom 
you  command  that  she  is  of  all  ladies  the  truest 
to  her  lord." 

"  Is  this,  then,  your  answer,"  said  Morgan,  "  that 
you  disdain  our  love  ?  " 

"  On  my  life  it  is !  "  cried  Lancelot.  "  Such  love 
as  yours  is  not  for  honest  knights;  and  my  love 
is  not  to  be  had  for  the  bidding." 

"  You  may  live  to  change  your  mind,"  said  Mor- 
gan. "  Prison  life  and  prison  fare  may  cure  your 
pride." 

With  these  words  they  departed,  leaving  Lancelot 
in  gloom  of  mind  but  steadfastness  of  heart. 

At  noon,  the  damsel  who  had  brought  him  his 
supper  the  night  before  came  with  his  dinner,  and 
asked  him  again  how  he  fared. 

"  Never  so  ill,"  said  Lancelot.  "  For  never  be- 
fore was  I  held  under  lock  and  key,  and  never  was 
worthy  knight  so  shamefully  entreated." 

^^  It  grieves  me  deeply  to  see  you  in  such  dis- 
tress," she  said.     "  If  you  will  be  ruled  by  me, 

10 


146  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

and  make  me  a  promise,  you  shall  be  set  free  from 
this  prison,  though  at  the  risk  of  my  life." 

"  I  will  grant  your  wish  if  it  be  in  my  power," 
said  Lancelot.  "  These  queenly  sorceresses  have 
destroyed  many  a  good  knight,  and  I  would  give 
much  to  be  out  of  their  hands." 

"  They  crave  your  love  from  what  they  have  heard 
of  your  honor  and  renown,"  answered  the  damsel. 
"  They  say  your  name  is  Lancelot  du  Lake,  the 
flower  of  knights,  and  your  refusal  of  their  love  has 
filled  their  souls  with  anger.  But  for  my  aid  you 
might  die  in  their  hands.  The  promise  I  ask  is 
this.  On  Tuesday  morning  next  there  is  to  be  a 
tournament  between  my  father  and  the  King  of 
Northgalis.  My  father  was  lately  overpowered  by 
three  of  Arthur's  knights,  and  if  you  will  be  there 
and  help  him  in  this  coming  fray  I  will  engage  to 
deliver  you  from  your  bondage  at  dawn  to-morrow." 

"  Tell  me  your  father's  name,"  said  Lancelot, 
"  and  then  you  shall  have  my  answer." 

"  His  name  is  King  Bagdemagus." 

"  I  know  him  well,"  said  Lancelot.  "  He  is  a 
noble  king  and  a  good  knight.  By  the  faith  of  my 
body,  I  promise  to  give  him  what  aid  T  can." 

"  A  hundred  thanks,  dear  sir,"  she  said.  "  Be 
ready  to-morrow  early.  I  shall  bo  here  to  deliver 
you,  and  take  you  to  where  you  can  find  your  horse 
and  armor.  Within  ten  miles  of  this  castle  is  an 
abbey  of  white  monks.  There  I  beg  you  to  stay  and 
thither  I  shall  brinj?  mv  father  to  vou." 

"  As  I  am  a  true  knight  you  can  trust  me,"  said 
Lancelot. 

With   this   the  damsel   departed.     But   at  early 


THE  CONTEST  OF  THE  FOUR  QUEENS.    147 

dawn  of  the  next  day  she  came  again,  as  she  had 
promised,  and  found  Lancelot  ready  and  eager  for 
flight.  Then  they  crept  through  hall  and  passage, 
with  heedful  tread  and  bated  breath,  until  she  had 
opened  twelve  locked  doors  and  reached  the  castle 
yard. 

The  sun  was  just  giving  its  rose  tints  to  the  east 
when  she  brought  him  to  the  place  where  his  horse 
and  armor  were  kept,  and  with  hasty  fingers  helped 
him  to  arm.  Then,  taking  a  great  spear  and  mount- 
ing his  noble  steed,  Lancelot  rode  forth,  saying 
cheerily, — 

"  Fair  damsel,  by  the  grace  of  Grod  I  shall  not 
fail  you.^' 

And  still  slumber  lay  deep  upon  the  castle,  and 
not  one  of  the  queens  nor  a  soul  of  those  who  dwelt 
therein  was  wakened  by  the  sound. 

But  not  far  had  the  escaping  knight  departed 
from  the  castle  before  he  entered  a  thick  forest,  in 
whose  depths  he  wandered  lost  all  that  day,  finding 
no  high  road,  and  no  trace  of  the  abbey  of  white 
monks.  Night  at  length  came  upon  him,  and  now 
he  found  himself  in  a  valley  where  he  saw  a  pavil- 
ion of  red  sendal. 

"  Fortune  aids  me,''  said  Lancelot.  "  Whoever 
owns  that  pavilion,  it  shall  give  me  shelter  for  the 
night.'' 

He  thereupon  alighted,  tied  his  horse  to  a  tree 
near  by,  and  entered  the  pavilion,  in  which  was  a 
comfortable  bed.  Disarming,  he  laid  himself  there- 
in, and  very  soon  was  lost  in  heavy  slumber. 

Within  an  hour  afterwards  the  knight  who  owned 
the  pavilion  came  thither,  and  laid  himself  upon  the 


148  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

bed  without  noticing  that  it  was  already  occupied. 
His  entrance  wakened  Lancelot,  who,  on  feeling  this 
intrusion,  sprang  in  quick  alarm  from  the  bed  and 
grasped  his  sword.  The  other  knight,  no  less 
alarmed,  did  the  same,  and  sword  in  hand  they 
rushed  out  from  the  pavilion  into  the  open  air, 
and  fell  into  mortal  combat  by  the  side  of  a  little 
stream  that  there  ran  past. 

The  fight  was  quickly  at  an  end,  for  after  a  few 
passes  the  knight  of  the  pavilion  fell  to  the  earth, 
wounded  nearly  unto  death. 

"  I  yield  me,  sir  knight,''  he  cried.  "  But  I  fear 
I  have  fought  my  last." 

"  Why  came  you  into  my  bed  ? "  demanded 
Lancelot. 

"  The  pavilion  is  my  own,''  said  the  knight.  "  It 
is  ill  fortune  that  I  should  die  for  seeking  my  own 
bed." 

^"  Then  I  am  sorry  to  have  hurt  you,"  said  Lan- 
celot. "  I  have  lately  been  beguiled  by  treason, 
and  was  in  dread  of  it.  Come  into  the  pavilion. 
It  mav  be  that  1  can  stanch  youi  blood." 

They  entered  the  pavilion,  where  Lancelot,  with 
skilful  hands,  dressed  the  knight's  wound  and 
stopped  the  bleeding.  As  he  did  so  the  knight's 
lady  entered  the  pavilion,  and  fell  into  deep  lamen- 
tation and  accusal  of  Lancelot,  on  seeing  how  sorely 
her  lord  was  hurt. 

Peace,   my   lady   and   love,"   said   the   knight. 

This  is  a  worthy  and  honorable  gentleman.  I 
am  in  fault  for  my  hurt,  and  he  has  saved  my  life 
by  his  skill  and  care." 

"  Will  you  tell  me  what  knight  you  are?  "  asked 
the  lady. 


66 


THE  CONTEST  OF  THE  FOUR  QUEENS.    149 

"  Fair  lady/'  he  replied,  "  my  name  is  Lancelot 
du  Lake/' 

So  your  face  and  voice  told  me/'  she  replied, 

for  I  have  seen  you  often,  and  know  you  better 
than  you  deem.  And  I  would  ask  of  your  courtesy, 
for  the  harm  you  have  done  to  my  lord  Beleus  and 
the  grief  you  have  given  me,  that  you  will  cause 
my  lord  to  be  made  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table. 
This  I  can  sav  for  him,  that  he  is  a  man  of  warlike 
prowess,  and  the  lord  of  many  islands." 

"  Let  him  come  to  the  court  at  the  next  high 
feast,"  said  Lancelot ;  "  and  come  you  with  him. 
I  shall  do  what  I  can  for  him,  and  if  he  prove  as 
good  a  knight  as  you  say,  I  doubt  not  but  King 
Arthur  will  grant  your  request." 

While  they  still  talked  the  night  passed  and  the 
day  dawned.  Then  Lancelot  armed  himself,  and 
asking  of  them  the  way  to  the  abbey,  rode  thither, 
where  he  arrived  within  the  space  of  two  hours. 

As  Lancelot  rode  within  the  abbey  yard,  the 
damsel  to  whom  he  owed  his  deliverance  from  the 
prison  of  Morgan  le  Fay  sprang  from  a  couch  and 
ran  to  a  window,  roused  by  the  loud  clang  of  hoofs 
upon  the  pavement. 

Seeing  who  it  was,  she  hurried  gladly  down,  and 
bade  some  of  the  men  to  take  his  horse  to  the  stable, 
and  others  to  lead  him  to  a  chamber,  whither  she 
sent  him  a  robe  to  wear  when  he  had  laid  off  his 
armor. 

Then  she  entered  the  chamber  and  bade  him 
heartily  welcome,  saying  that  of  all  knights  in  the 
world  he  was  the  one  she  most  wished  to  see. 
Ordering  breakfast  to  be  prepared  for  the  hungry 


150  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

knight,  she  sent  in  haste  for  her  father,  who  was 
within  twelve  miles  of  the  abbey.  Before  eventide 
he  came,  and  with  him  a  fair  following  of  knights. 

As  soon  as  King  Bagdemagus  reached  the  abbey, 
he  went  straight  to  the  room  where  were  Lancelot 
and  his  daughter  in  conversation,  and  took  Lancelot 
in  his  arms,  bidding  him  warmly  welcome. 

In  the  talk  that  followed,  Lancelot  told  the  king 
of  his  late  adventures,  the  loss  of  his  nephew  Lionel, 
his  own  betrayal,  and  his  rescue  by  the  maiden,  his 
daughter :  "  For  which,''  he  said,  "  I  owe  my 
best  service  to  her  and  hers  while  I  live.'^ 

"  Then  can  I  trust  in  your  help  on  Tuesday 
next  ?  ''   asked  the  king. 

"  That  I  h^ve  already  promised  your  daughter,'^ 
said  Lancelot.  ^^  I  shall  not  fail.  But  she  tells 
me  that  in  your  last  bout  you  lost  the  field  through 
three  of  King  Arthur's  knights,  who  aided  the  King 
of  Northgalis,  and  that  it  is  against  these  knights 
you  need  assistance.     What  knights  were  they?" 

"  They  were  Sir  Mador  de  la  Porte,  Sir  Mordred, 
and  Sir  Gahalatine.  Do  what  we  could,  neither  I 
nor  my  knights  could  make  head. against  them." 

"  I  would  not  have  them  know  me,"'  said  Lan- 
celot. "  My  plan,  therefore,  is  this.  Send  me  here 
three  of  your  best  knights,  and  see  that  they  have 
white  shields,  with  no  device,  and  that  I  also  have 
such  a  shield.  Then  shall  we  four,  when  the  fight 
is  well  on,  come  out  of  a  wood  into  the  midst  of 
the  fray,  and  do  what  we  can  to  defeat  these  cham- 
pions." 

This  plan  was  carried  out  as  Lancelot  had  de- 
vised.    On  the  day  fixed  for  the  tournament  he. 


THE  CONTEST  OF  THE  POUR  QUEENS.    151 

with '  his  three  white-shielded  companions,  placed 
himself  in  ambush  in  a  leafy  grove  near  where  the 
lists  were  raised.  Around  the  field  were  rows  of 
benches  where  the  spectators  might  sit,  and  richly- 
adorned  seats  for  the  lords  and  ladies  who  were  to 
adjudge  the  combat  and  award  the  prize  of  skill 
and  valor. 

Then  into  the  lists  rode  the  King  of  Northgalis, 
with  a  following  of  fourscore  knights,  and  attended 
by  the  three  knights  of  Arthur's  court,  who  stood 
apart  by  themselves.  Into  the  opposite  side  of  the 
lists  rode  King  Bagdemagus,  with  as  many  knights 
in  his  train. 

When  all  were  in  place  the  signal  for  the  onset 
was  given,  and  the  knights  put  their  spears  in  rest 
and  rode  together  with  a  great  rush,  and  with  such 
fatal  fortune  that  twelve  of  the  party  of  Bagde- 
magus and  six  of  that  of  Northgalis  were  slain  at 
the  first  encounter,  while  the  knights  of  King  Bag- 
demagus were  driven  back  in  disorder. 

At  this  critical  juncture  Lancelot  and  his  com- 
panions broke  from  their  concealment  and  rode 
into  the  lists,  forcing  their  horses  into  the  thick 
of  the  press.  Then  Lancelot  did  deeds  of  such 
marvellous  strength  and  skill  that  all  men  deeply 
wont^ered  who  could  be  the  valiant  knight  of  the 
white  shield.  For  with  one  spear  he  smote  down 
five  knights,  with  such  force  that  four  of '  them 
broke  their  backs  in  the  fall.  Then  turning  on  the 
King  of  Northgalis,  he  hurled  him  from  his  horse 
and  broke  his  thigh. 

The  three  knights  of  Arthur's  court,  who  had 
not  yet  joined  in  the  fray,  saw  this,  and  rode 
forward. 


152  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

"A  shrewd  guest  that/'  said  Mador.  "Let  me 
have  at  him." 

But  his  fortune  was  not  equal  to  his  hopes,  for 
Lancelot  bore  down  horse  and  man,  so  that  Mador's 
shoulder  was  put  out  of  joint  by  the  fall. 

"  Now  is  my  turn,"  said  Mordred. 

He  rode  fiercely  on  Lancelot,  who  turned  nimbly 
and  met  him  in  full  career,  Mordred's  spear  shiv- 
ering unto  his  hand  when  it  struck  the  firm  white 
shield.  But  Lancelot  gave  him  so  shrewd  a  buffet 
that  the  bow  of  his  saddle  broke,  and  he  was  flung 
over  his  horse's  tail  with  such  violence  that  his  hel- 
met went  more  than  a  foot  into  the  earth.  Fortune 
saved  him  from  a  broken  neck,  but  he  lay  long 
in  a  swoon. 

Then  Gahalatine  and  Lancelot  rode  together  with 
all  their  force,  the  spears  of  both  breaking,  but  both 
keeping  their  seats.  They  now  drew  their  swords, 
and  struck  each  other  many  a  keen  blow.  At  length 
Lancelot,  with  a  burst  of  wrath,  smote  Gahalatine 
so  fierce  a  stroke  on  the  helm  that  blood  burst  from 
his  nose,  mouth,  and  ears,  and  his  head  drooped  on 
his  breast.  His  horse  ran  in  fright  from  the  fray, 
while  he  fell  headlong  from  his  saddle  to  the  ground. 

Lancelot  now  drew  back  and  received  from  the 
attendants  a  stout,  strong  spear,  and  with  this. rode 
again  into  the  fray.  Before  that  spear  broke  he 
had  unhorsed  sixteen  knights,  some  of  them  being 
borne  from  their  saddles,  while  others  were  hurled 
horse  and  man  together  to  the  earth.  Then  getting 
another  spear  he  unhorsed  twelve  more  knights, 
some  of  whom  never  throve  afterwards.  This 
ended  the  tournament,  for  the  knights  of  Northgalis 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  153 

refused  to  fight  any  longer  against  a  champion  of 
such  mighty  prowess,  and  the  prize  was  awarded 
to  King  Bagdemagus. 

Lancelot  now  rode  with  King  Bagdemagus  from 
the  lists  to  his  castle,  where  they  had  great  feasting 
and  rejoicing,  and  where  Lancelot  was  proffered 
rich  gifts  for  the  noble  service  he  had  rendered. 
But  these  he  refused  to  accept. 

On  the  following  morning  Lancelot  took  his  leave, 
saying  that  he  must  go  in  search  of  Lionel,  who  had 
vanished  from  his  side  during  his  sleep.  Bust 
before  going  he  commended  all  present  to  God^s 
grace,  and  said  to  the  king's  daughter, — 

"  If  you  have  need  any  time  of  my  service  I  pray 
vou  let  me  know,  and  I  shall  not  fail  vou,  as  I  am 
a  true  knight.'' 

And  so  Lancelot  departed,  having  had  strange 
adventures  and  won  much  renown  since  he  had 
parted  from  his  nephew  Lionel. 


CHAPTER  III. 

HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT. 

Not  far  nor  long  had  Lancelot  ridden  before  he 
found  himself  in  familiar  scenes,  and  in  a  short 
time  he  beheld  that  same  apple-tree  under  which 
he  had  lain  asleep. 

I  shall  take  care  never  to  sleep  again  beneath 


u 


154  LANCELOT  OP  THE  LAKE, 

your  shade,"  he  said,  grimly.  "The  fruit  you 
bear  is  not  wholesome  for  errant  knights." 

He  rode  by  it,  but  had  not  followed  the  highway 
far  when  he  met  a  damsel  riding  on  a  white  palfrey, 
who  saluted  him.  He  courteously  returned  her 
salute,  and  said, — 

"  Fair  damsel,  know  you  of  any  adventures  that 
may  be  had  in  this  land  ?  " 

"  Sir  knight,"  she  replied,  "  if  you  crave  adven- 
tures you  will  not  need  to  go  far  to  find  one.  But 
it  is  one  it  might  be  safest  for  you  not  to  under- 
take." 

"  Why  should  I  not  ?  "  said  Lancelot.  "  I  came 
here  seeking  adventures,  and  am  not  the  man  to 
turn  back  from  a  shadow." 

"  You  seem  to  be  a  good  knight,"  she  replied, 
regarding  him  closely.  "  If  you  dare  face  a  power- 
ful fighter,  I  can  bring  you  where  is  the  best  and 
mightiest  in  this  land.  But  first  I  would  know 
what  knight  you  are." 

"  As  for  my  name,  you  are  welcome  to  it,"  he 
replied.     "  Men  call  me  Lancelot  du  Lake." 

"  This,  then,  is  the  adventure.  Near  by  there 
dwells  a  knight  who  has  never  yet  found  his  match, 
and  who  is  ever  ready  for  a  joust.  His  name  is  Sir 
Turquine.  As  I  am  told,  he  has  overcome  and 
has  in  prison  in  his  castle  sixty-four  knights  of 
Arthur's  court,  whom  he  has  met  and  vanquished 
in  single  combat.  You  shall  fight  with  him  if  you 
will.  And  if  you  overcome  him,  then  1  shall  beg 
for  your  aid  against  a  false  knight  wlio  daily  dis- 
tresses, me  and  other  damsels.  Have  I  your 
promise  ?  " 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  155 

"  There  is  nothing  I  would  rather  do/'  said  Lan- 
celot. "  Bring  me  now  where  I  may  meet  this 
Turquine.  When  I  have  ended  with  him  I  shall 
be  at  your  service.'' 

"  Come  this  way,"  she  replied,  and  led  him  to 
the  ford  and  the  tree  where  hung  the  basin. 

Lancelot  waited  here  until  his  horse  had  drunk, 
and  then  he  beat  on  the  basin  with  the  butt  of  his 
spear  with  such  force  that  its  bottom  fell  out,  but 
no  one  answered  his  challenge.  He  knocked  then 
loudly  at  the  manor  gates,  but  they  remained 
closed.  Finding  no  entrance,  he  rode  for  half  an 
hour  along  the  manor  walls,  looking  heedfuUy  for 
Sir  Turquine,  whom  he  fancied  must  be  abroad. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  he  saw  a  knight  who  drove 
a  horse  before  him,  and  athwart  that  horse  lay  an 
armed  knight,  bound. 

As  they  drew  near,  Lancelot  noticed  something 
familiar  in  the  aspect  of  the  bound  knight,  and 
when  they  had  come  close  he  recognized  him  as 
Gaheris,  the  brother  of  Gawaine,  and  a  Knight  of 
the  Bound  Table. 

"  That  prisoner  is  a  fellow  of  mine,"  he  said  to 
the  damsel.  "I  shall  begin,  I  promise  you,  by 
God's  help,  with  rescuing  him;  and  unless  his 
captor  sit  better  than  I  in  the  saddle,  I  shall  deliver 
all  his  prisoners,  among  whom,  I  am  sure,  are  some 
of  my  near  kindred." 

By  this  time  Turquine  was  close  at  hand,  and 
on  seeing  an  armed  knight  thus  confront  him  he 
drew  up  his  horse  and  gripped  his  spear  fiercely. 

"  Fair  sir,"  said  I^ancelot,  ^^  put  down  that 
wounded  knight  and  let  him  rest  a  while,  while 


156  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

you  and  I  find  out*  who  is  the  better  man.  I  am 
told  you  have  done  much  wrong  to  Knights  of 
the  Bound  Table,  and  1  am  here  to  revenge  them. 
Therefore,  defend  yourself.^^ 

"  If  you  be  of  the  Round  Table,^'  said  Turquine, 
'^  I  defy  you  and  all  your  fellowship." 

"  That  is  easy  to  say,"  retorted  Lancelot.  "  Now 
let  me  see  what  you  are  ready  to  do." 

Then,  they  put  their  spears  in  the  rests,  and  rode 
together  with  the  force  of  two  ships  meeting  in 
mid-ocean,  smiting  each  other  so  strongly  in  the 
midst  of  their  shields  that  the  backs  of  both  horses 
broke  beneath  them.  The  knights,  astonished  at 
this  result,  leaped  hastily  to  the  ground  to  avoid 
being  overthrown. 

Then,  drawing  their  swords  and  bearing  their 
shields  in  front,  they  came  hotly  together,  striking 
with  such  force  that  shield  and  armor  alike  gave 
way  beneath  the  mighty  blows,  and  blood  soon  be- 
gan to  flow  freely  from  their  wounds.  Thus  for 
two  hours  and  more  the  deadly  contest  continued, 
the  knights  striking,  parrying,  advancing,  and  retir- 
ing with  all  the  skill  of  perfect  swordsmen.  At  the 
last  they  both  paused  through  lack  of  breath,  and 
stood  leaning  upon  their  swords,  and  facing  each 
other  grimly. 

"  Hold  thy  hand  a  while,  fellow,"  said  Turquine, 
"  and  tell  me  what  I  shall  ask  thee." 

"  Say  on,"  rejoined  Lancelot,  briefly. 

"  Thou  art  the  strongest  and  best-breathed  man 
that  ever  I  met  with,  and  art  much  like  the  knight 
that  I  hate  most  of  all  men.  If  you  are  not  he, 
then  for  the  esteem  1  have  for  you  I  will  release  all 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  157 

my  prisoners,  and  we  shall  be  fellows  together  while 
we  live.     But  first  of  all  I  would  know  your  name." 

"  You  speak  well/'  said  Lancelot.  "  But  since 
you  promise  me  your  friendship,  tell  me  what  knight 
it  is  you  hate  so  deeply  ?  " 

"  His  name,"  said  Turquine,  "  is  Lancelot  du 
Lake.  He  slew  my  brother  Carados  at  the  dolorous 
tower,  and  I  have  vowed  that,  if  I  should  meet  him, 
one  of  us  shall  make  an  end  of  the  other.  Through 
hate  of  him  I  have  slain  a  hundred  knights,  and 
maimed  as  many  more,  while  of  those  I  have  thrown 
in  prison,  many  are  dead,  and  threescore  and  four 
yet  live.  If  you  will  tell  me  your  name,  and  it 
be  not  Lancelot,  all  these  shall  be  delivered." 

"  It  stands,  then,"  said  Lancelot,  "  that  if  I  be 
one  man  I  may  have  your  peace  and  friendship, 
and  if  I  be  another  man  there  will  be  mortal  war 
between  us.  If  you  would  know  my  name,  it  is 
Lancelot  du  Lake,  son  of  King  Ban  of  Benwick, 
and  Knight  of  the  Table  Round.  And  now  do 
your  best,  for  I  defy  you." 

"  Ah,  Lancelot !  "  said  Turquine,  "  never  was 
knight  so  welcome  to  me.  This  is  the  meeting  I 
have  long  sought,  and  we  shall  never  part  till  one 
of  us  be  dead." 

Then  they  rushed  together  like  two  wild  bulls, 
lashing  at  each  other  with  shield  and  sword,  and 
striking  such  fiery  blows  that  pieces  of  steel  flew 
from  their  armor  of  proof,  and  blood  poured  from 
many  new  wounds. 

Two  hours  longer  the  fight  continued,  Turquine 
giving  Lancelot  many  wounds  and  receiving  sting- 
ing blows  in  return,  till  at  the  end  he  drew  back 


158  LANCELOT  OP  THE  LAKE. 

faint  with  loss  of  breath  and  of  blood,  and  bore  his 
shield  low  through  weakness.  This  Lancelot 
quickly  perceived,  and  leaped  fiercely  upon  him, 
seizing  him  by  the  beaver  of  his  helmet  and  drag- 
ging him  down  to  his  knees.  Then  he  tore  off  his 
helm,  and  swinging  in  the  air  his  fatal  blade,  smote 
off  his  head  so  that  it  leaped  like  a  live  thing  upon 
the  ground,  while  the  body  fell  prostrate  in  death. 

"  So  much  for  Turquine,^'  said  Lancelot.  "  He 
will  take  prisoner  no  more  Round  Table  knights. 
But  by  my  faith,  there  are  not  many  such  .men  as 
he,  and  he  and  I  might  have  faced  the  world.  Now, 
damsel,  I  am  ready  to  go  with  you  where  you  will, 
but  I  have  no  horse.'' 

"  Take  that  of  this  wounded  knight ;  and  let  him 
go  into  the  manor  and  release  the  prisoners." 

"  That  is  well  advised,''  said  Lancelot,  who  there- 
upon went  to  Gaheris  and  begged  that  he  would 
lend  him  his  horse. 

"  Lend  it !  "  cried  Gaheris.  "  I  will  give  it,  and 
would  give  ten  if  I  had  them,  for  I  owe  my  life 
and  my  horse  both  to  you.  You  have  slain  in  my 
sight  the  mightiest  man  and  the  best  knight  that  I 
ever  saw,  except  yourself.  And,  fair  sir,  I  pray 
you  tell  me  your  name  ?  " 

"  My  name  is  Lancelot  du  Lake.  T  owe  you 
rescue  for  King  Arthur's  sake,  and  for  that  of 
Gawaine,  your  brother  and  my  comrade.  Within 
that  manor  you  will  find  many  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table,  whose  shields  you  may  see  on  yonder 
tree.  I  pray  you  greet  them  all  from  me,  and  say 
T  bid  them  take  for  their  own  such  stuff  as  they 
find  there.     I  must  ride  on  with  this  damsel  to 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  159 

keep  my  promise,  but  I  hope  to  be  back  at  the  court 
by  the  feast  of  Pentecost.  Bid  Lionel  and  Hector 
await  me  there." 

This  said,  he  mounted  and  rode  on,  while  Gaheris 
went  into  the  manor-house.  Here  he  found  a  yeo- 
man porter,  who  accosted  him  surlily.  Gaheris 
flung  the  dogged  fellow  to  the  floor,  and  took  from 
him  his  keys.  With  these  he  opened  the  prison 
doors  and  released  the  captives,  who  thanked  him 
warmly  for  their  rescue,  for  they  saw  that  he  was 
wounded,  and  deemed  that  he  had  vanquished 
Turquine. 

"It  was  not  I,"  said  Gaheris,  "that  slew  your 
tyrant.  You  have  Lancelot  to  thank  for  that.  He 
greets  you  all,  and  asks  Lionel  and  Hector  to  wait 
for  him  at  the  court.^^ 

"  That  we  shall  not  do,"  said  they.  "  While  we 
live  we  shall  seek  him." 

"  So  shall  I,"  said  Kay,  who  was  among  the  pris- 
oners, "  as  I  am  a  true  knight." 

Then  the  released  knights  sought  their  armor  and 
horses,  and  as  they  did  so  a  forester  rode  into  the 
court,  with  four  horses  laden  with  fat  venison. 

"  Here  is  for  us,"  said  Kay.  "  We  have  not  had 
such  a  repast  as  this  promises  for  many  a  long  day. 
That  rogue  Turquine  owes  us  a  dinner  at  least." 

Then  the  manor-kitchens  were  set  in  a  blaze,  and 
the  venison  was  roasted,  baked,  and  sodden,  the 
half-starved  knights  enjoying  such  a  hearty  meal 
as  they  had  long  been  without.  Some  of  them 
afterwards  stayed  in  the  manor-house  for  the  night, 
though  in  more  agreeable  quarters  than  they  had 
of  late  occupied.     But  Lionel,  Hector,  and  Kay  rode 


160  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

in  quest  of  Lancelot,  resolved  to  find  him   if  it 
were  possible,  and  to  lose  no  lime  in  the  search. 

As  for  the  victorious  knight,  he  had  many  strange 
adventures,  of  which  we  can  tell  only  those  of  most 
interest.  First  of  all,  he  performed  the  task  which 
the  damsel  required  of  him,  for  he  met  and  killed 
that  false  knight  against  whom  she  prayed  for 
redress. 

"  You  have  done  this  day  a  double  service  to  man- 
kind," said  the  damsel,  gratefully.  "  As  Turquine 
destroyed  knights,  so  did  this  villain,  whose  name 
was  Peris  de  Forest  Savage,  destroy  and  distress 
ladies  and  gentlewomen,  and  he  is  well  repaid  for 
his  villany." 

"  Do  you  want  any  more  service  of  me  ?  "  asked 
Lancelot. 

"Not  at  this  time.  But  may  heaven  preserve 
you  wherever  you  go,  for  you  deserve  the  prayers 
of  all  who  are  in  distress.  But  one  thing,  it  seems 
to  me,  you  lack:  you  are  a  wifeless  knight.  The 
world  says  that  you  will  love  no  maiden,  but  that 
your  heart  is  turned  only  to  Queen  Guenever,  who 
has  ordained  bv  enchantment  that  vou  shall  love 
none  but  her.  This  I  hold  to  be  a  great  pity,  and 
many  in  the  land  are  sorry  to  see  so  noble  a  knight 
so  enchained.'' 

"  I  cannot  stop  people  from  thinking  what  they 
will/'  said  Lancelot,  "  but  as  for  marrying,  I  shall 
not  soon  consent  to  be  a  stay-at-home  knight. 
And  as  for  Guenever 's  enchantment,  it  is  only  that 
of  beauty  and  womanly  graciousness.  What  time 
may  bring  me  I  know  not,  but  as  yet  it  has  not 
brought  me  a  fancy  for  wedded  life.     I  thank  you 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  161 

for  your  good  wishes,  fair  damsel,  and  courteously 
bid  you  farewell/' 

With  these  words  Lancelot  and  she  parted,  she 
seeking  her  home,  and  the  knight  riding  in  quest 
of  new  adventures.  For  two  days  his  journey  con- 
tinued, through  a  country  strange  to  him.  On  the 
morning  of  the  third  day  he  found  himself  beside 
a  wide  stream,  which  was  crossed  by  a  long  bridge, 
beyond  which  rose  the  battlemented  towers  of  a 
strong  castle. 

Lancelot  rode  upon  the  bridge,  but  before  he  had 
reached  its  middle  there  started  out  a  foul-faced 
churl,  who  smote  his  horse  a  hard  blow  on  the  nose, 
and  asked  him  surlily  why  he  dared  cross  that  bridge 
without  license. 

"Why  should  I  not,  if  I  wish?"  asked  the 
knight.     "  Who  has  the  right  to  hinder  ?  " 

"  I  have,"  cried  the  churl.  "  You  may  choose 
what  you  will,  but  you  shall  not  ride  here,"  and  he 
struck  at  him  furiously  with  a  great  iron-shod  club. 

At  this  affront  Lancelot  angrily  drew  his  sword, 
and  with  one  stroke  warded  off  the  blow,  and  cut 
the  churl's  head  in  twain. 

"  So  much  for  you,  fool,"  he  said. 

But  when  he  reached  the  end  of  the  bridge  he 
found  there  a  village,  whose  people  cried  out  to 
him,  "  You  have  done  a  sorry  deed  for  yourself,  for 
you  have  slain  the  chief  porter  of  our  castle." 

Lancelot  rode  on,  heedless  of  their  cries,  and  forc- 
ing his  great  horse  through  the  throng  till  he  came 
to  the  castle  walls.  The  gates  of  these  stood  open, 
and  he  rode  in,  where  he  saw  a  fair  green  court, 
and  beyond  it  the  stately  walls  and  towers.  At  the 
11 


162  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

windows  were  the  faces  of  many  people,  who  cried 
to  him  in  dismay, — 

"  Fair  knight,  turn  and  fly.  Death  awaits  you 
here/^ 

"  Fly !  I  have  not  learned  how,"  answered  Lan- 
celot, as  he  sprang  from  his  horse  and  tied  him  to 
a  ring  in  the  wall.  "  This  court  seems  a  fair  place 
for  knightly  combat,  and  it  fits  better  with  my 
mood  to  fight  than  fly.^' 

Hardly  had  he  spoken  when  from  the  castle  doors 
came  two  strong  giants,  armed  all  but  their  heads, 
and  bearing  as  weapons  great  iron  clubs.  They 
set  upon  Lancelot  together,  the  foremost  making 
a  stroke  that  would  have  slain  him  had  it  reached 
him.  But  the  knight  warded  it  off  with  his  shield, 
and  agilely  returned  the  blow  with  his  sword,  with 
so  vigorous  a  stroke  that  he  cleft  the  giant's  head 
in  twain. 

When  his  fellow  saw  this,  he  turned  and  ran  in 
panic  fear,  but  Lancelot  furiously  pursued  him, 
and  struck  him  so  fierce  a  blow  that  the  sword  clove 
his  great  body  asunder  from  shoulder  to  waist. 

"  Is  it  not  better  to  fight  than  to  fly  ?  "  cried 
Lancelot  to  the  glad  faces  which  he  now  saw  at  the 
windows,  and,  leaving  the  dead  giants  crimsoning 
the  green  verdure,  he  strode  into  the  castle  hall, 
whore  there  came  before  him  threescore  ladies,  who 
fell  on  their  knees  and  thanked  God  and  him  for 
their  deliverance. 

"  Blessed  be  the  day  thou  wert  born,  sir  knight,'' 
they  said,  "  for  many  brave  warriors  have  died  in 
seeking  to  do  what  thou  hast  achieved  this  day. 
We  are  all  of  us  gentlewomen  born,  and  many  of 


HOW  LANCELOT  AND  TURQUINE  FOUGHT.  163 

US  have  been  prisoners  here  for  seven  years,  work- 
ing in  silk  for  these  giants  that  we  might  earn  our 
food.  We  pray  you  to  tell  us  your  name,  that 
our  friends  may  know  who  has  delivered  us,  and 
remember  you  in  their  prayers." 

"  Fair  ladies,"  he  said,  "  my  name  is  Lancelot  du 
Lake." 

"  You  may  well  be  he,"  they  /replied.  "  For  we 
know  no  other  knight  that  could  have  faced  those 
giants  together,  and  slain  them  as  you  have  done." 

"  Say  unto  your  friends,"  said  Lancelot,  "  that 
I  send  them  greeting,  and  that  I  shall  expect  good 
cheer  from  them  if  ever  I  should  come  into  their 
manors.  As  for  the  treasure  in  this  castle,  I  give 
it  to  you  in  payment  for  your  captivity.  For  the 
castle  itself,  its  lord,  whom  these  giants  have  dis- 
possessed, may  claim  again  his  heritage." 

"  The  castle,"  they  replied,  "  is  named  Tintagil. 
The  duke  who  owned  it  was  the  husband  of  Queen 
Igraine,  King  Arthur's  mother.  But  it  has  long 
been  held  byihese  miscreant  giants." 

"  Then,"^  said  Lancelot,  '^  the  castle  belongs  to 
the  king,  and  shall  be  returned  to  him.  And  now 
farewell,  and  God  be  with  you." 

So  saying,  he  mounted  his  horse  and  rode  away, 
followed  by  the  thanks  and  prayers  of  the  rescued 
ladies. 


\ 


164  LANCELOT  OP  THE  LAKE. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE   CHAPEL   PERILOUS. 

Lancelot  rode  onward  day  after  day,  passing 
through  many  strange  and  wild  countries,  and  over 
many  rivers,  and  sfinding  but  sorry  cheer  and  ill 
lodging  as  he  went.  At  length  fortune  brought  him 
to  a  comfortable  wayside  mansion,  where  he  was 
well  received,  and  after  a  good  supper  was  lodged 
in  a  chamber  over  the  gateway. 

But  he  had  not  been  long  asleep  when  he  was 
aroused  by  a  furious  knocking  at  the  gate.  Spring- 
ing from  his  bed,  he  looked  from  the  window,  and 
there  by  the  moonlight  saw  one  knight  defending 
himself  against  three,  who  were  pressing  him 
closely.  The  knight  fought  bravely,  but  was  in 
danger  of  being  overpowered. 

"  Those  are  not  fair  odds,"  said  Lancelot.  ^^  I 
must  to  the  rescue,  and  the  more  so  a».  I  see  that  it 
is  my  old  friend,  Sir  Kay,  who  is  being  so  roughly 
handled." 

Then  ho  hastily  put  on  his  armor,  and  by  aid  of 
a  sheet  lowered  himself  from  a  window  to  the 
ground. 

"  Turn  this  way,"  he  cried  to  the  assailants, 
"  and  leave  that  knight.  Three  to  one  is  not 
knightly  odds." 

At  these  words  they  turned  upon  him,  all  three 
striking  at  him  together,  and  forcing  him  to  defend 
himself.  Kay  would  have  come  to  his  aid,  but  he 
cried  out, — 


THE  CHAPEL  PERILOUS.  ^  165 


"  I  will  have  none  of  your  help.  Stand  off  and 
leave  me  alone,  or  fight  them  yourself." 

At  this  Kay  stood  aside,  and  Lancelot  attacked 
the  three  miscreants  so  fiercely  that  within  six 
strokes  he  felled  them  all  to  the  ground.  They 
now  begged  for  mercy,  yielding  to  him  as  a  man 
of  matchless  skill. 

"I  will  not  take  your  yielding,"  he  replied. 
"  Yield  to  Sir  Kay,  here,  whom  you  foully  over- 
matched." 

"  You  ask  too  much  of  us,  fair  sir.  It  is  not 
just  that  we  should  yield  to  him  whom  we  would 
have  vanquished  but  for  you." 

"  Think  well,"  returned  Lancelot.  ^^  You  shall 
yield  or  die.     The  choice  is  yours." 

"  That  is  a  choice  with  but  one  side.  Yield  we 
must,  if  death  is  the  alternative." 

"  Then  I  bid  you  on  Whitsunday  next,  to  present 
yourselves  to  Queen  Guenever  at  King  Arthur's 
court,  and  put  yourselves  in  her  grace  and  mercy, 
saying  that  Sir  Kay  sent  you  there  as  prisoners." 

This  they  took  oath  to  do,  each  knight  swearing 
upon  his  sword ;  whereupon  Lancelot  suffered  them 
to  depart. 

He  now  knocked  at  the  gate  with  the  pommel 
of  his  sword,  till  his  host  came,  who  started  with 
surprise  on  seeing  him  there. 

"  I  thought  you  were  safe  a-bed,"  he  said. 

"  So  I  was.  But  I  sprang  from  the  window  to 
help  an  old  fellow  of  mine." 

When  they  came  to  the  light,  Kay  recognized 
Lancelot,  and  fell  on  his  knees  to  thank  him  for 
saving  his  life. 


166 


LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 


"  What  1  have  done  is  nothing  but  what  duty 
and  good  fellowship  demanded/^  said  Lancelot. 
"  Are  you  hungry  ?  '' 

"  Half  starved/'  answered  Kay. 

"  Mayhap  our  good  hoat  can  find  you  food.'^ 

Meat  was  thereupon  brought,  of  which  Kay  eat 
heartily,  after  which  he  and  Lancelot  sought  their 
beds  in  the  gate  chamber. 

But  in  the  morning  Lancelot  rose  while  Kay  was 
still  asleep,  and  took  his  guest's  armor  and  shield, 
leaving  his  own.  Then  he  proceeded  to  the  stable, 
mounted  his  horse,  and  rode  away.  Shortly  after- 
wards Kay  awoke,  and  quickly  perceived  what  his 
comrade  had  done. 

"  Good,"  he  said,  with  a  laugh.  "  Lancelot  is 
after  some  sport.  I  fancy  that  more  than  one 
knight  will  get  more  than  he  bargains  for  if  he 
thinks  he  has  me  to  deal  with.  As  for  me,  with 
Lancelot's  armor  and  shield,  I  shall  be  left  to  ride 
in  peace,  for  few,  I  fancy,  will  trouble  me." 

Kay  thereupon  put  on  Lancelot's  armor,  and, 
thanking  his  host,  rode  away.  Meanwhile  Lancelot 
had  ridden  on  till  he  found  himself  in  a  low  country 
full  of  meadows  and  rivers.  Here  he  passed  a 
bridge  at  whose  end  were  three  pavilions  of  silk 
and  sendal,  and  at  the  door  of  each  a  white  shield 
on  the  truncheon  of  a  spear,  while  three  squires 
stood  at  the  pavilion  doors.  Lancelot  rode  leisurely 
by,  without  a  word  and  hardly  a  look. 

When  he  had  passed,  the  knights  looked  after 
him,  saying  to  one  another,  "  That  is  the  proud 
Kay.  He  deems  no  knight  so  good  as  he,  though 
it  has  often  been  proved  otherwise." 


THE  CHAPEL   PERILOUS.      '  167 

"  I  shall  ride  after  him/'  said  one.  "  We  shall 
see  if  his  pride  does  not  have  a  fall.  Watch  m^, 
comrades,  if  you  would  see  some  sport.^^ 

He  sped  but  poorly,  as  it  proved,  for  within  a 
short  time  he  was  hurled  grovelling  to  the  earth. 
Then  the  two  others  rode  in  succession  against 
the  disguised  knight,  and  both  met  with  the  same 
sorrv  fate. 

"  You  are  not  Kay,  the  seneschal/'  they  cried. 
"  He  never  struck  such  blows.  Tell  us  your  name 
and  we  will  yield." 

"  You  shall  yield,  whether  you  will  or  not/'  he 
replied.  "  Look  that  you  be  at  court  by  Whit- 
sunday, and  yield  yourselves  to  Queen  Guenever, 
saying  to  her  that  Sir  Kay  sent  you  thither  as 
prisoners.'' 

This  they  swore  to  do,  in  dread  of  worse  handling, 
and  Lancelot  rode  on,  leaving  them  to  help  them- 
selves as  best  they  might.  Not  far  had  he  gone 
when  he  entered  a  forest,  and  in  an  open  glade  of 
this  saw  four  knights  resting  under  an  oak.  He 
knew  them  at  sight  to  be  from  Arthur's  court,  two 
of  them  being  Gawaine  and  ITwaine;  the  other  two 
Hector  de  Maris,  and  Sagramour  le  Desirous. 

They,  as  the  three  previous  knights  had  done, 
mistook  Lancelot  for  Kay,  and  Sagramour  rode 
after  him,  vowing  that  he  would  try  what  skill  the 
seneschal  had.  He  quickly  found,  for  horse  and 
man  together  were  hurled  to  the  ground,  while 
Ijancelot  sat  unmoved  in  his  saddle. 

"  I  would  have  sworn  that  Kay  could  not  give 
such  a  buffet  as  that/'  said  Hector.  "  Let  us  see 
what  I  can  do  with  him." 


168  '    LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

His  luck  w£ls  even  worse,  for  he  went  to  the  earth 
with  a  spear-hole  in  his  shoulder,  his  shield  and 
armor  being  pierced. 

"  By  my  faith !  "  said  TJwaine,  "  that  knight  is 
a  bigger  and  stronger  man  than  Kay.  He  must  have 
slain  the  seneschal  and  taken  his  armor.  He  has 
proved  himself  a  hard  man  to  match,  but  if  Kay 
has  been  slain  it  is  our  duty  to  revenge  him." 

He  thereupon  rode  against  Lancelot,  but  with 
as  ill  fortune  as  his  fellows,  for  he  was  flung  so 
violently  to  the  earth  that  he  lay  long  out  of  his 
senses. 

"  Whoever  he  be,"  cried  Gawaine,  "  he  has  over- 
turned my  comrades,  and  I  must  encounter  him. 
Defend  yourself,  sir  knight." 

Then  the  two  knights  rode  fiercely  together,  each 
striking  the  other  in  the  midst  of  the  shield.  But 
Gawaine's  spear  broke,  while  that  of  Lancelot  held 
good,  and  struck  so  strong  a  blow  that  the  horse  was 
overturned,  Gawaine  barely  escaping  being  crushed 
beneath  him. 

This  done,  Lancelot  rode  slowly  on,  smiling  to 
himself,  and  saying,  "  God  give  joy  to  the  man 
that  made  this  spear,  for  a  better  no  knight  ever 
handled." 

"  What  say  you  of  this  knight,  who  with  one 
spear  has  felled  us  all  ?  "  said  Gawaine.  *^  To  my 
thinking,  it  is  Lancelot  or  the  devil.  He  rides  like 
Lancelot." 

"  We  shall  find  out  in  good  time/'  said  the  others ; 
"but  he  has  left  us  sore  bodies  and  sick  hearts,  and 
our  poor  horses  are  the  worse  for  the  trial." 

Lancelot  rode  on  through   the  forest,  thinking 


THE  CHAPEL  PERILOUS.  169 

quietly  to  himself  of  the  surprise  he  had  given  to 
his  late  assailants,  and  of  the  sport  it  would  there- 
after make  in  the  court.  But  new  and  stranger 
adventures  awaited  him,  for  he  was  now  coming 
into  a  land  of  enchantment,  where  more  than  mere 
strength  would  be  needed. 

What  he  saw,  after  he  had  ridden  long  and  far, 
was  a  black  brachet,  which  was  coursing  as  if  in 
the  track  of  a  hurt  deer;  but  he  quickly  perceived 
that  the  dog  was  upon  a  trail  of  fresh  blood.  He 
followed  the  brachet,  which  looked  behind  as  it  ran, 
as  if  with  desire  to  lead  him  on.  In  time  he  saw 
before  him  an  old  manor,  over  whose  bridge  ran 
the  dog.  When  Lancelot  had  ridden  over  the 
bridge,  that  shook  beneath  his  hoofs  as  if  it  was 
ready  to  fall,  he  came  into  a  great  hall,  where  lay 
a  dead  knight  whose  wounds  the  dog  was  licking. 
As  he  stood  there  a  lady  rushed  weeping  from 
a  chamber,  and  wrung  her  hands  in  grief  as  she 
accused  him  of  having  slain  her  lord. 

"  Madam,  it  was  not  I,''  said  Lancelot.  "  I 
never  saw  him  till  his  dog  led  me  here,  and  I  am 
sorry  enough  for  your  misfortune.^' 

"  I  should  have  known  it  could  not  be  you,"  she 
said.  "  I  was  led  by  my  grief  to  speak  wildly.  For 
he  that  killed  my  husband  is  sorely  wounded  him- 
self, and  I  can  promise  him  this,  that  he  will  never 
recover.  I  have  wrought  him  a  charm  that  no 
leech's  skill  can  overcome.^' 

"  What  was  your  husband's  name  ?  "  asked  Lan- 
celot. 

"  Sir  Gilbert,''  she  replied.  "  As  for  him  that 
slew  him,  I  know  not  his  name." 


170  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

*^  God  send  you  better  comfort,"  said  Lancelot. 
"  I  am  sorry  for  your  misfortune." 

Then  he  rode  again  into  the  forest,  and  in  a 
short  space  met  a  damsel  who  knew  him  well,  for 
his  visor  was  up  and  his  face  shown. 

"  You  are  well  found,  my  lord  Lancelot,"  she 
said.  "  I  beg  you  of  your  knighthood  to  help  my 
brother,  who  lies  near  by  sorely  wounded,  and  ne\er 
stops  bleeding.  He  fought  to-day  with  Sir  Gilbert 
and  slew  him  in  fair  battle,  and  now  is  dying 
through  foul  enchantment.  Not  far  from  here 
dwells  a  lady  sorceress,  who  has  wrought  this  harm, 
and  who  told  me  to-day  that  my  brother's  wounds 
would  never  heal  till  I  could  find  a  knight  who 
would  go  into  the  Chapel  Perilous,  and  bring  thence 
the  sword  of  the  slain  knight  and  a  piece  of  the 
bloody  cloth  that  he  is  wrapped  in.  My  brother 
will  die  unless  his  wounds  are  touched  with  that 
sword  and  that  cloth,  for  nothing  else  on  earth  will 
stop  their  bleeding." 

"  This  is  a  marvellous  tale,"  said  Lancelot. 
"  Who  is  your  brother  ?  " 


"  His  name  is  Meliot  de  Logres." 


Then  he  is  one  of  my  fellows  of  the  Round 
Table,  and  I  will  do  all  I  can  to  help  him.  What 
and  where  the  Chapel  Perilous  is  I  know  not,  but 
I  do  not  fear  its  perils." 

"  This  highway  will  bring  you  to  it,  and  at  no 
great  distance,"  she  replied.  "  I  shall  here  await 
your  return.  I  know  no  knight  but  you  who  can 
achieve  this  task,  and  truly  you  will  find  it  no  light 
one,  for  you  have  enchantment  and  sorcery  to 
encounter." 


THE  CHAPEL   PERILOUS.  171 

Little  was  Lancelot  downcast  by  these  words, 
and  he  rode  on  to  the  Chapel  Perilous  with  no  dread 
in  his  bold  heart.  Reaching  the  building  indicated, 
he  alighted  and  tied  his  horse  beside  the  gate.  Then 
he  entered  the  church-yard,  and  there  he  saw  on  the 
chapel  front  many  shields  hung  upside  down,  some 
of  them  being  well  known  to  him. 

But  his  eyes  were  quickly  drawn  from  these,  for 
suddenly  there  appeared  before  him  thirty  gigantic 
knights,  all  clad  in  jet-black  armor,  and  every  man 
of  them  a  foot  higher  than  common  men.  All 
bore  swords  and  shields,  and  as  they  stood  there 
they  grinned  and  gnashed  at  him  with  baleful 
faces. 

Dread  came  into  Lancelot's  heart  on  seeing  this 
frightful  throng  of  black  warriors,  with  their 
demon-like  countenances.  But  commending  his 
soul  to  God,  he  took  his  sword  in  hand  and  ad- 
vanced resolutely  upon  them.  Then,  to  his  sur- 
prise and  gladness,  when  they  saw  this  bold  advance 
they  scattered  right  and  left  before  him,  like  dead 
leaves  before  the  wind,  and  gave  him  open  passage 
to  the  chapel,  which  he  entered  without  further 
opposition. 

Here  was  no  light  but  that  of  a  dim  lamp,  and 
on  a  bier  in  the  centre  of  the  aisle  there  lay  a 
corpse  that  was  covered  with  a  cloth  of  silk.  On 
coming  up,  Lancelot  gazed  upon  the  face  and  saw 
that  it  was  that  of  Sir  Gilbert,  whose  dead  body 
he  had  seen  but  lately  in  the  hall  of  the  manor- 
house. 

Then  he  bent  over  the  corpse  and  cut  away  a 
piece  of  the  silk,  and  as  he  did  so  he  felt  the  floor 


172  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

to  sink  and  rock  beneath  him  as  if  the  earth  had 
quaked.  This  gave  him  a  thrill  of  dread,  and 
seizing  the  sword  that  lay  by  the  side  of  the  corpse 
he  hastened  out  of  the  chapel. 

When  he  reached  the  chapel-yard  the  black 
knights  thronged  again  in  his  pathway,  and  cried 
to  him  with  voices  of  thunder, — 

"  Knight,  yield  us  that  sword,  or  you  shall  die !  " 

"  Whether  I  live  or  die,  it  will  need  more  than 
loud  words  to  force  me  to  yield  it.  You  may 
fight  for  it  if  you  will.  And  I  warn  you,  you  will 
need  to  fight  hard.'^ 

Then,  as  before,  they  scattered  before  his  bold 
advance,  and  left  him  free  passage.  Lancelot  strode 
resolutely  on  through  the  chapel-yard,  but  in  the 
highway  beyond  he  met  a  fair  damsel,  who  said  to 
him, — 

"  Sir  Lancelot,  you  know  not  what  risk  you  run. 
Leave  that  sword,  or  you  will  die  for  it.^' 

"  I  got  it  not  so  easy  that  I  should  leave  it  for 
a  threat,^'  he  replied. 

"  You  are  wise,''  she  answered.  ''  1  did  but  test 
your  judgment.  If  you  had  yielded  the  sword 
you  would  never  have  looked  on  Queen  Guenever 
'again." 

"  Then  I  would  have  been  a  fool  indeed  to  leave 

it." 

"  Now,  gentle  knight,  I  have  but  one  request  to 
make  of  you  ere  you  depart.  That  is,  that  you 
kiss  me." 

^^Nay,"  said  T^ncelot,  ^^that  God  forbid.  I 
save  my  kisses  till  my  love  is  given." 

'^  Then   are  you   beyond   my   power,"   she   cried, 


THE  CHAPEL  PERILOUS.  173 

with  a  groan  of  pain.  "  Had  you  kissed  me  your 
life  would  have  ended;  but  now  1  have  lost  my 
labor,  for  it  was  for  you  and  Gawaine  that  I  pre- 
pared this  chapel  with  its  enchantments.  Gawaine 
was  once  in  my  power,  and  at  that  time  he  fought 
with  Sir  Gilbert  and  struck  off  his  left  hand.  As 
for  you,  I  have  loved  you  these  seven  years.  But 
I  know  that  none  but  Guenever  will  ever  have 
your  love,  and  so,  as  I  could  not  have  you  alive, 
I  wished^  to  have  you  dead.  If  you  had  yielded 
to  my  wiles  I  should  have  embalmed  and  preserved 
your  body,  and  kissed  it  daily  in  spite  of  Guenever, 
or  any  woman  living.  Now  farewell^  Lancelot;  I 
shall  never  look  upon  your  face  again." 

"  I  pray  to  Heaven  you  shall  not.  And  may 
God  preserve  me  from  your  vile  craft." 

Mounting  his  horse,  Lancelot  departed.  Of  the 
lady,  we  are  told  by  the  chronicles  that  she  died 
within  a  fortnight  of  pure  sorrow,  and  that  she  was 
a  sorceress  of  high  renown. 

Lancelot  rode  on  till  he  met  the  sister  of  the 
wounded  knight,  who  clapped  her  hands  and  wept 
for  joy  on  seeing  him  safely  returned.  Then  she 
led  him  to  a  castle  near  by,  where  Sir  Meliot  lay. 
Lancelot  knew  him  at  sight,  though  he  was  pale 
as  death  from  loss  of  blood. 

On  seeing  Lancelot,  he  fell  on  his  knees  before 
him,  crying,  in  tones  of  hope, — 

"  Oh,  my  lord  Lancelot,  help  me,  for  you  alone 
can ! " 

"I  can  and  will,"  rejoined  the  knight,  and,  as  he 
had  been  advised,  he  touched  his  wounds  with 
the  sword  and  rubbed  them  with  the  bloody  cloth 
he  had  won. 


174  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

No  sooner  was  this  done,  than  Meliot  sprang  to 
his  feet  a  whole  and  sound  man,  while  his  heart 
throbbed  with  joy  and  gratefnhiess.  And  he  and 
his  sister  entertained  then*  noble  guest  with  the 
best  the  castle  afforded,  doing  all  in  their  power 
to  show  their  gratitude. 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE  ADVENTITRE  OF  THE  FALCON. 

After  his  departure  from  the  castle  of  Sir  Meliot, 
Lancelot  rode  through  many  strange  regions,  over 
marshes  and  highlands,  through  valleys  and  forests, 
and  at  length  found  himself  in  front  of  a  handsome 
castle.  This  he  passed,  and  as  he  did  so  thought 
he  heard  two  bells  ring. 

Then  he  saw  a  falcon  fly  over  his  head  towards 
a  high  elm,  with  long  cords  hanging  from  her  feet, 
and  as  she  perched  in  the  elm  these  became  coiled 
round  a  bough,  so  that  when  she  tried  to  fly  again 
the  lines  held  her  and  she  hung  downward  by  the 
legs. 

Then  there  came  a  lady  running  from  the  castle, 
who  cried,  as  she  approached, — 

"  Oh,  Lancelot,  Lancelot,  as  thou  art  the  flower 
of  knights,  help  me  to  get  my  hawk,  lest  my  lord 
destroy  me  I  The  hawk  escaped  me,  and  if  my 
husband  finds  it  gone,  he  is  so  hasty  that  I  fear  he 
will  kill  me.^^ 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  FALCON.  175 

^^  What  is  his  name  ?  "  asked  Lancelot. 

"  His  name  is  Phelot.  He  is  a  knight  of  the 
king  of  Northgalis.^' 

"  Well, '  fair  lady,  since  you  know  my  name  so 
well,  and  ask  me  on  my  knighthood  to  help  you, 
I  will  try  to  get  your  hawk.  But  I  am  a  poor 
climber,  and  the  tree  is  high,  with  few  boughs  to 
help  me.'^ 

"  I  trust  you  may,"  she  replied,  "  for  my  life 
depends  on  your  success." 

Then  Lancelot  alighted  and  tied  his  horse  to  the 
tree,  and  begged  the  lady  to  help  him  remove  his 
armor.  When  he  was  fully  unarmed  he'  climbed 
with  much  difficulty  into  the  tree,  and  at  length 
succeeded  in  reaching  the  hawk.  He  now  tied  the 
lines  to  a  rotten  branch  and  threw  it  and  the  bird 
down  to  the  lady. 

But  as  she  picked  it  up  with  a  show  of  joy,  there 
suddenly  came  from  a  grove  an  armed  knight,  who 
rode  rapidly  up,  with  his  drawn  sword  in  his  hand. 

"  Now,  Lancelot  du  Lake/^  he  cried,  "  I  have 
you  as  I  wanted  you.     Your  day  has  come." 

And  he  stood  by  the  trunk  of  the  tree,  ready  to 
slay  him  when  he  should  descend. 

"  What  treason   is  this  ?  "    demanded  Lancelot. 

False  woman,  why  have  you  led  me  into  this  ?  " 
She  did  as  I  bade  her,"  said  Phelot.  "  I  hate 
you,  Lancelot,  and  have  laid  this  trap  for  you. 
You  have  fought  your  last  fight,  my  bold  cham- 
pion, for  you  come  out  of  that  tree  but  to  your 
death." 

"  That  would  be  a  shameful  deed,"  cried  Lan- 
celot, "for  you,  an  armed  knight,  to  slay  a  de- 
fenceless man  through  treachery." 


176  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

"  Help  yourself  the  best  you  can/'  said  Phelot; 
"  you  get  no  grace  from  me." 

"  You  will  be  shamed  all  your  life  by  so  base  an 
act,"  cried  Lancelot.  "  If  you  will  do  no  more,  at 
least  hang  my  sword  upon  a  bough  where  I  may 
get  it,  and  then  you  may  do  your  best  to  slay  me." 

"  No,  no,"  said  Phelot.  "  I  know  you  too  well 
for  that.     You  get  no  weapon  if  I  can  hinder  you." 

Lancelot  was  now  in  the  most  desperate  strait 
he  was  likely  ever  to  endure.  He  could  not  stay 
forever  in  the  tree,  and  if  he  should  attempt  to 
descend  there  stood  that  armed  villain  awaiting 
him  with  ready  sword.  What  to  do  he  knew  not, 
but  his  eyes  glanced  warily  round,  till  he  saw  just 
above  him  a  big  leafless  branch,  which  he  broke 
off  close  to  the  body  of  the  tree.  Thus  armed,  he 
climbed  down  to  a  lower  bough,  and  looked  down 
to  note  the  position  of  the  knight  and  his  own 
horse. 

A  quick  look  told  him  that  there  was  still  a 
chance  for  life,  and  with  a  nimble  leap  he  sprang 
to  the  ground  on  the  other  side  of  his  horse  from 
the  knight. 

Phelot  at  once  struck  at  him  savagely  with  his 
sword,  thinking  to  kill  him  with  the  blow;  but 
Lancelot  parried  it  with  his  heavy  club,  and  in 
return  dealt  his  antagonist  so  fierce  a  blow  on  the 
head  as  to  hurl  him  from  his  horse  to  the  ground. 
Then  wrenching  the  sword  from  his  hand,  he  struck 
off  his  villanous  head. 

"  Alas !  "  cried  the  lady,  "  you  have  slain  my 
husband ! " 

"  If  I  should  slay  you  with  him  it  would  be  but 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  FALCON.  177 

justice/'  said  Lancelot,  "  for  you  would  have  killed 
me  through  falsehood  and  treachery,  and  you  have 
but  your  deserts." 

Then  the  lady  swooned  away  as  if  she  would 
die,  but  Lancelot,  seeing  that  the  knight's  castle 
was  so  nigh,  hastened  to  resume  his  armor,  for  he 
knew  not  what  other  treachery  might  await  him. 
Then,  leaving  the  lady  still  in  a  swoon,  he  mounted 
and  rode  away,  thanking  God  that  he  had  come  so 
well  through  that  deadly  peril. 

As  to  Lancelot's  other  adventures  at  that  time, 
they  were  of  no  great  moment.  The  chronicles 
tell  that  he  saw  a  knight  chasing  a  lady  with  intent 
to  kill  her,  and  that  he  rescued  her.  Afterwards 
the  knight,  who  was  her  husband  and  mad  with 
jealousy,  struck  off  her  head  in  Lancelot's  presence. 

Then  when  Lancelot  would  have  slain  him,  he 
grovelled  in  the  dirt  and  begged  for  mercy  so 
piteously,  that  the  knight  at  length  granted  him  his 
shameful  life,  but  made  him  swear  that  he  would 
bear  the  dead  body  on  his  back  to  Queen  Guenever, 
and  tell  her  of  his  deed. 

This  he  accomplished,  and  was  ordered  by  the 
queen,  as  a  fitting  penance,  to  bear  the  body  of 
his  wife  to  the  Pope  of  Rome  and  there  beg  abso- 
lution, and  never  to  sleep  at  night  but  with  the 
dead  body  in  the  bed  with  him.  All  this  the  knight 
did,  and  the  body  was  buried  in  Rome  by  the  Pope's 
command.  Afterwards  Pedivere,  the  knight,  re- 
pented so  deeply  of  his  vile  deed  that  he  became  a 
hermit,  and  was  known  as  a  man  of  holy  life. 

Two  days  before  the  feast  of  Pentecost,  Lancelot 
returned  to  Camelot  from  his  long  journey  and  his 

12 


178  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAKE. 

many  adventures.  And  there  was  much  laughter 
in  the  court  when  the  knights  whom  he  had  smitten 
down  saw  him  in  Kay's  armor,  and  knew  who  their 
antagonist  had  been. 

"  By  my  faith/'  said  Kay,  "  I  never  rode  in  such 
peace  as  I  have  done  in  Lancelot's  armor,  for  I  have 
not  found  a  man  willing  to  fight  with  me,  and  have 
ruled  lopd  of  the  land." 

Then  the  various  knights  whom  Lancelot  had 
bidden  to  seek  the  court  came  in,  one  by  one,  and 
all  were  glad  to  learn  that  it  was  by  no  common  man 
that  they  had  been  overcome.  Among  them  came 
Sir  Belleus,  whom  Lancelot  had  wounded  at  the 
pavilion,  and  who  at  his  request  was  made  a  Knight 
of  the  Round  Table,  and  Sir  Meliot  de  Logres,  whom 
he  had  rescued  from  the  enchantment  of  the  Chapel 
Perilous.  Also  the  adventure  of  the  four  queens 
was  told,  and  how  Lancelot  had  been  delivered  from 
the  power  of  the  sorceresses,  and  had  won  the 
tournament  for  King  Bagdemagus. 

And  so  at  that  time  Lancelot  had  the  greatest 
name  of  any  knight  in  the  world,  and  was  the  most 
honored,  by  high  and  low  alike,  of  all  living 
champions. 


BOOK  V. 

THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE  KNIGHTING  OF  KAY's  KITCHEN  BOY. 

King  Arthur  had,  early  in  his  reign,  established 
the  custom  that  at  the  feast  of  Pentecost  he  would 
never  dine  until  he  had  seen  or  heard  of  some  mar- 
vellous event.  Through  that  custom  many  strange 
adventures  were  brought  to  his  notice.  It  hap- 
pened on  one  day  of  Pentecost  that  the  king  held 
his  Round  Table  at  a  castle  called  Kinkenadon,  on 
the  borders  of  Wales.  On  that  day,  a  little  before 
noon,  as  Gawaine  looked  from  a  window,  he  saw 
three  men  on  horseback  and  a  dwarf  on  foot 
approaching  the  castle.  When  they  came  near  the 
men  alighted,  and,  leaving  their  horses  in  care  of 
the  dwarf,  they  walked  towards  the  castle-gate. 
One  of  these  men  was  very  tall,  being  a  foot  and  a 
half  higher  than  his  companions. 

On  seeing  this,  Gawaine  went  to  the  king  and 
said, — 

"  Sire,  I  deem  you  can  now  safely  go  to  your 
dinner,  for  I  fancy  we  have  an  adventure  at  hand." 

The  king  thereupon  went  to  the  table  with  his 
knights  and  the  kings  who  were  guests  at  his  court. 
They  were  but  well  seated  when  there  came  into  the 

179 


180  THE  ADVENTURES  OP  BEAUMAINS. 

hall  two  men,  richly  attired,  upon  whose  shoulders 
leaned  the  fairest  and  handsomest  young  man  that 
any  there  had  ever  seen.  In  body  he  was  large 
and  tall,  with  broad  shoulders  and  sturdy  limbs,  yet 
he  moved  as  if  he  could  not  bear  himself  erect,  but 
needed  support  from  his  comrades'  shoulders. 

When  Arthur  saw  this  youth  he  bade  those  around 
him  to  make  room,  and  the  stranger  with  his  com- 
panions walked  up  to  the  high  dais  without 
speaking. 

Then  he  drew  himself  up  straight  and  stood  erect 
before  the  king. 

"  King  Arthur,"  he  said,  "  may  God  bless  you 
and  your  fellowship,  and,  above  all,  the  fellowship 
of  the  Bound  Table.  I  am  come  hither  to  beg  of 
yoii  three  gifts,  promising  that  they  shall  not  be 
unreasonable,  and  that  you  can  honorably  grant 
them  without  hurt  or  loss  to  yourself.  The  first 
I  shall  ask  now,  and  the  other  two  this  day  twelve- 
month." 

"  Ask  what  you  will,"  said  Arthur.  "  You  shall 
have  your  gift,  if  it  be  so  easy  to  grant." 

"  This  is  my  first  pc^tition,  that  you  furnish  me 
meat  and  drink  sutticicnt  for  this  vear,  and  until 
the  time  has  come  to  ask  for  my  other  gifts." 

"  My  fair  son,"  said  Arthur,  "  I  counsel  you  to 
ask  more  than  this.  If  my  judgment  fail. not,  you 
are  of  good  birth  and  fit  for  noble  deeds." 

"  However  that  mav  be,  I  have  asked  all  that  I 
now  desire." 

"  Well,  well,  you  shall  have  meat  and  drink 
enough.  I  have  never  denied  that  to  friend  or 
foe.     But  what  is  your  name  ?  " 


THE  KNIGHTING  OF  KAY's  KITCHEN  BOY.     181 


"  Great  sir,  that  I  cannot  tell  you." 

"  There  is  a  mystery  here.  A  youth  of  so  hand- 
some face  and  vigorous  form  as  you  must  be  of 
noble  parentage.  But  if  you  desire  secrecy,  1  shall 
not  press  you." 

Then  Arthur  bade  Kay  to  take  charge  of  the 
youth  and  see  that  he  had  the  best  fare  of  the 
castle,  and  to  find  out  if  he  was  a  lord's  son,  if 
possible. 

"  A  churl's  son,  I  should  say,"  answered  Kay, 
scornfully,  "  and  not  worth  the  cost  of  his  meals. 
Had  he  been  of  gentle  birth  he  would  have  asked 
for  horse  and  armor ;  but  he  demands  that  which 
fits  his  base-born  nature.  Since  he  has  no  name, 
1  shall  give  him  one.  Let  him  be  called  Beaumains, 
or  Fair  Hands.  1  shall  keep  him  in  the  kitchen, 
where  he  can  have  fat  broth  every  day,  so  that  at 
the  year's  end  he  will  be  fat  as  a  swollen  hog.'' 

Then  the  two  men  departed  and  left  the  youth 
w4th  Kay,  who  continued  to  scorn  and  mock  him. 

Gawaine  and  I^ncelot  were  angry  at  tliis,  and 
bade  Kay  to  cease  his  mockery,  saying  that  they 
were  sure  the  youth  would  prove  of  merit. 

"  Never  will  he,*'  said  Kay.  "  He  has  asked  as 
his  nature  bade  him." 

'^  Beware,"  said  Lancelot.  "  This  is  not  tlie  first 
youth  you  have  given  a  name  in  mockery,  which 
turned  on  yourself  at  last." 

"  I  do  not  fear  that  of  this  fellow.  I  wager  that 
he  has  been  brought  up  in  some  abbey,  and  came 
hither  because  good  eating  failed  him  there." 

Kay  then  bade  him  get  a  place  and  sit  down  to 
his  meal,  and  Beaumains  sought  a  place  at  the 
hall-door  among  boys  and  menials. 


182  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAIN8. 

Gawaine  and  Lancelot  thereupon  asked  him  to 
come  to  their  chambers,  where  he  should  be  well 
fed  and  lodged;  but  he  refused,  saying  that  he 
would  do  only  as  Kay  commanded,  since  the  king 
had  so  bidden. 

It  thus  came  about  that  Beaumains  ate  in  the 
kitchen  among  the  menials,  and  slept  in  sorry 
quarters.  And  during  the  whole  year  he  was  always 
meek  and  mild,  and  gave  no  cause  for  displeasure 
to  man  or  child. 

But  whenever  there  was  jousting  of  knights  he 
was  always  present  to  see,  and  seemed  in  this  sport 
to  take  great  delight.  And  Gawaine  and  Lancelot, 
who  felt  sure  that  the  youth  but  bided  his  time, 
gave  him  clothes  and  what  money  he  needed.  Also, 
wherever  there  were  sports  of  skill  or  strength  he 
was  sure  to  be  on  hand,  and  in  throwing  the  bar 
or  stone  he  surpassed  all  contestants  by  two  yards. 

"  How  like  you  my  boy  of  the  kitchen  ? ''  Kay 
would  say,  on  seeing  these  feats.  "  Fat  broth  is 
good  for  the  muscles.^' 

And  so  the  year  passed  on  till  the  festival  of 
Whitsuntide  came  again.  The  court  was  now  at 
Carlion,  where  royal  feasts  were  held.  But  the 
king,  as  was  his  custom,  refused  to  eat  until  he 
should  hear  of  some  strange  adventure. 

While  he  thus  waited  a  damsel  came  into  the 
hall  and  saluted  the  king,  and  begged  aid  and  succor 
of  him. 

"  For  whom  ?  ''  asked  Arthur.  "  Of  what  do  you 
complain  ?  " 

"  Sire,"  she  replied,  "  I  serve  a  lady  of  great 
worth  and  merit,  who  is  besieged  in  her  castle  by 


THE  KNIGHTING  OF  KAY's  KITCHEN  BOY.     183 

* 

a  tyrant,  and  dares  not  leave  her  gates  for  fear  of 
him.  1  pray  you  send  with  me  some  knight  to 
succor  her." 

"  Who  is  your  lady,  and  where  does  she  dwell  ? 
And  what  is  the  name  of  the  man  who  besieges 
her  ? '' 

.  "Her  name  I  must  not  now  tell.  I  shall  only 
say  that  she  has  wide  lands  and  is  a  noble  lady. 
As  for  the  tyrant  that  distresses  her,  he  is  called 
the  Red  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns.'^ 

"  I  know  him  not,"  said  the  king. 

"  I  know  him  well,"  said  Gawaine.  "  Men  say 
he  has  seven  men's  strength.  I  escaped  him  once 
barely  with  life." 

"  Fair  damsel,''  said  the  king,  "  there  are  knights 
here  who  would  do  their  utmost  to  rescue  your  lady. 
But  if  you  will  not  tell  me  her  name  nor  where 
she  lives,  none  of  them  shall  go  with  my  consent." 

"  Then  I  must  seek  further,"  said  the  damsel, 
"  for  that  I  am  forbidden  to  tell." 

At  this  moment  Beaumains  came  to  the  king,  and  * 
said, — 

"  Royal  sir,  I  have  been  twelve  months  in  your 
kitchen,  and  have  had  all  you  promised  me;  now 
I  desire  to  ask  for  my  other  two  gifts." 

Ask,  if  you  will.     I  shall  keep  to  my  word." 
This,  then,  is  what  I  request.     First,  that  you 
send  me  with  the  damsel,  for  this  adventure  belongs 
to  me." 

"  You  shall  have  it,"  said  the  king. 

"  My  third  request  is  that  you  shall  bid  Lancelot 
du  Lake  make  me  a  knight,  for  he  is  the  only  man  in 
your   court   from   whom    I   will   take   that   honor. 


C6 
(i 


184  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

When  I  am  gone  let  him  ride  after  me,  and  dub  me 
knight  when  I  require  it  of  him/' 

"  I  grant  your  wish/'  said  the  king.  "  All  shall 
be  done  as  you  desire." 

"  Fie  on  you  all !  "  cried  the  damsel.  "  I  came 
here  for  a  knight,  and  you  offer  me  a  kitchen  scul- 
lion. Is  this  King  Arthur's  way  of  rescuing  a 
lady  in  distress  ?  •  If  so,  I  want  none  of  it,  and  will 
seek  my  knight  elsewhere." 

She  left  the  court,  red  with  anger,  mounted  her 
horse,  and  rode  away. 

She  had  hardly  gone  when  a  page  of  the  court 
came  to  Beaumains  and  told  him  that  his  dwarf 
was  without,  with  a  noble  horse  and  a  rich  suit  of 
armor,  and  all  other  necessaries  of  the  best. 

At  this  all  the  court  marvelled,  for  they  could 
not  imagine  who  had  sent  all  this  rich  gear  to  a 
kitchen  menial.  But  when  Beaumains  was  armed, 
there  were  none  in  the  court  who  presented  a 
more  manly  aspect  than  he.  He  took  courteous 
*  leave  of  the  king,  and  of  Gawaiue  and  Lancelot, 
praying  the  latter  that  he  would  soon  ride  after 
him.  This  done,  he  mounted  his  horse  and  pursued 
the  damsel. 

But  those  who  observed  him  noticed  that,  while 
he  was  well  horsed  and  had  trappings  of  cloth  of 
gold,  he  bore  neither  shield  nor  spear.  Among 
those  who  watched  him  was  Kav,  who  said, — 

"  Yonder  goes  my  kitchen  drudge,  as  fine  a  knight 
as  the  best  of  us,  if  a  brave  show  were  all  that  a 
knight  needed.  I  have  a  mind  to  ride  after  him, 
to  let  him  know  that  I  am  still  his  superior." 

"  You  had  better  let  him  alone,"  said  Gawaine. 


THE  KNIGHTING  OF  KAY's  KITCHEN  BOY.     185 

"  You  may  find  more  than  you  bargain  for/' 

But  Kay  armed  himself  and  rode  after  Beau- 
mains,  whom  he  overtook  just  as  he  came  up  with 
the  damsel. 

"  Hold  there,  Beaumains,"  he  cried,  in  mockery. 
"  Do  you  not  know  me  ?  '^ 

"  Yes,''  answered  the  young  man.  "  I  know  you 
for  an  ungentle  knight  of  the  court,  who  has  put 
much  despite  upon  me.  It  is  my  turn  to  repay  you 
for  your  insults;   so,  sirrah,  defend  yourself." 

Kay  thereupon  put  his  spear  in  rest  and  rode 
upon  Beaumains,  who  awaited  him  sword  in  hand. 
When  they  came  together,  Beaumains,  with  a  skil- 
ful parry,  turned  aside  the  spear,  and  then  with  a 
vigorous  thrust  wounded  Kay  in  the  side,  so  that  he 
fell  from  his  horse  like  a  dead  man.  This  done, 
he  dismounted  and  took  Kay's  shield  and  spear, 
and  bade  his  dwarf  take  his  horse. 

All  this  was  observed  by  the  damsel,  and  also 
by  Lancelot,  who  had  followed  closely  upon  the 
track  of  the  seneschal.  # 

"  Now,  Sir  Lancelot,  I  am  ready  to  accept  your 
offer  to  knight  me,"  said  Beaumains,  "  but,  first,  I 
would  prove  myself  worthy  of  the  honor,  and  so 
will  joust  with  you,  if  you  consent." 

"  That  I  shall  certainly  not  decline,"  said  Lan- 
celot, counting  upon  an  easy  victory. 

But  when  the  knight  and  the  youth  rode  against 
each  other  both  were  hurled  from  their  horses  to  the 
earth,  and  sorely  bruised.  But  Beaumains  was 
entangled  in  his  harness,  and  Lancelot  helped  him 
from  his  horse. 

Then  Beaumains  flung  aside  his  shield  and  prof- 


186  THE  ADVENTUBES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

fered  to  fight  Lancelot  on  foot,  to  which  the  latter 
consented.  For  an  hour  they  fought,  Beaumains 
showing  such  strength  that  Lancelot  marvelled  at 
it,  and  esteemed  him  more  a  giant  than  a  knight. 
He  began,  indeed,  to  fear  that  he  might  be  van- 
quished in  the  end,  and  at  length  cried  out, — 

"  Beaumains,  you  fight  too  hard,  considering  that 
there  is  no  quarrel  between  us.  1  fancy  you  need 
no  further  proof.'' 

"  That  is  true  enough,  my  lord,''  said  Beaumains. 
"  But  it  did  me  good  to  feel  your  might.  As  for 
my  own  strength,  I  hardly  know  it  yet." 

"  It  is  as  much  as  I  want  to  deal  with,"  said 
Lancelot.     "  1  had  to  do  my  best  to  save  my  honor." 

"  Then  you  think  I  may  prove  myself  a  worthy 
knight  ?  " 

"  I  warrant  you  that,  if  you  do  as  well  as  you 
have  done  to-day." 

"  1  pray  you,  then,  to  invest  me  with  the  order 
of  knighthood." 

"  That  shall  I  willingly  do.  But  you  must  first 
tell  me  your  name,  and  that  of  your  father." 

"  You  will  keep  my  secret  ?  " 

"  I  promise  you  that  on  my  faith,  until  you  are 
ready  to  reveal  it  yourself." 

"Then,  sir,  my  name  is  Gareth,  and  I  am  Ga- 
waine's  brother,  though  he  knows  it  not.  I  was 
but  a  child  when  he  became  a  knight,  but  King 
Lot  was  my  father." 

"  I  am  very  glad  to  hear  that,"  said  Lancelot. 
"  I  knew  you  were  of  gentle  blood,  and  came  to 
court  for  something  else  than  meat  and  drink." 

Then  Gareth  kneeled  before  Lancelot,  who  made 


THE  BLACK,  GRE£N,  AND  SSD  KNIGHT3.      187 

him  a  knight,  and  bade  him  be  a  good  and  worthy 
one,  and  to  honor  his  birth  by  his  deeds. 

Lancelot  then  left  him  and  returned  to  Kay,  who 
lay  half  dead  in  the  road.  He  had  him  borne  back 
to  the  court,  but  his  wound  proved  long  in  healing, 
and  he  found  himself  the  scorn  of  the  court  for  his 
discourteous  treatment  of  the  youth  who  had  been 
put  in  his  care. 


CHAPTEK  II. 

THE    BLACK,    THE    GREEN,    AND    THE    RED    KNIGHTS. 

When  Beaumains  overtook  the  damsel,  he  re- 
ceived from  her  but  a  sorry  greeting. 

"  How  dare  you  follow  me  ?  ^^  she  said.  "  You 
smell  too  much  of  the  kitchen  for  my  liking. 
Your  clothes  are  foul  with  grease  and  tallow,  and 
I  marvel  much  that  King  Arthur  made  a  knight  of 
such  a  sorry  rogue.  As  for  yonder  knight  whom 
you  wounded,  there  is  no  credit  in  that,  for  it  was 
done  by  treachery  and  cowardice,  not  by  skill  and 
valor.  I  know  well  why  Kay  named  you  Beau- 
mains,  for  you  are  but  a  lubber  and  turner  of  spits, 
and  a  washer  of  soiled  dishes." 

"  Say  what  you  will,  damsel,'^  answered  Beau- 
mains,  "  you  shall  not  drive  me  away.  King 
Arthur  chose  me  to  achieve  your  adventure,  and  I 
shall  perform  it  or  die." 

"  Fi^  on  you,  kitchen  knave !  you  would  not  dare, 


188  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

for  all  the  broth  you  ever  supped,  to  look  the  red 
knight  in  the  faee.'^ 

"  Would  I  not  ?     That  is  to  be  seen." 

As  they  thus  angrily  debated,  there  came  to  them 
a  man  flying  at  full  speed. 

"  Help  me,  sir  knight !  "  he  cried.  "  Six  thieves 
have  taken  my  lord  and  bound  him,  and  I  fear 
they  will  slay  him  if  he  be  not  rescued.'* 

"  Lead  me  to  him,"  said  Beaumains. 

He  followed  the  man  to  a  neighboring  glade, 
where  he  saw  a  knight  bound  and  prostrate,  sur- 
rounded by  six  sorry-looking  villains.  At  sight 
of  this  the  heart  of  Beaumains  leaped  with  anger. 
With  a  ringing  battle-cry  he  rushed  upon  the  knaves, 
and  with  three  vigorous  strokes  laid  three  of  them 
dead  upon  the  earth.  The  others  fled,  but  he  fol- 
lowed at  full  speed,  and  quickly  overtook  them. 
Then  they  turned  and  assailed  him  fiercely,  but 
after  a  short  fight  he  slew  them  all.  He  then  rode 
back  to  the  knight,  whom  his  man  had  unbound. 

The  rescued  knight  thanked  him  warmly,  and 
begged  him  to  ride  with  him  to  his  castle,  where 
he  would  reward  him  for  his  great  service.  But 
Beaumains  answered  that  he  was  upon  a  quest  which 
could  not  be  left,  and  as  for  reward  he  would  leave 
that  to  God. 

Then  he  turned  and  rode  back  to  the  damsel, 
who  greeted  him  with  the  same  contempt  as  before, 
bidding  him  ride  farther  from  her,  as  she  could  not 
bear  the  smell  of  the  kitchen. 

'^  Do  you  fancy  that  I  esteem  you  any  the  nobler 
for  having  killed  a  few  churls?  You  shall  see  a 
sight  yet,  sir  knave,  that  will  make  you  turn  your 
back,  and  that  quickly." 


THE  BLACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED   KNIGHTS.       189 

Not  much  farther  had  they  ridden  when  they 
were  overtaken  by  the  rescued  knight,  who  begged 
them,  as  it  was  near  night,  and  his  castle  close  at 
hand,  to  spend  the  night  there.  The  damsel  agreed 
to  this,  and  they  rode  together  to  the  castle,  where 
they  were  well  entertained. 

But  at  supper  the  knight  set  Beaumains  before 
the  damsel. 

"  Fie,  fie !  sir  knight,"  she  exclaimed.  "  This  is 
discourteous,  to  seat  a  kitchen  page  before  a  lady 
of  high  birth.  This  fellow  is  more  used  to  carve 
swine  than  to  sit  at  lords'  tables." 

To  this  Beaumains  made  no  answer,  but  the 
knight  was  ashamed,  and  withdrew  with  his  guest 
to  a  side  table,  leaving  her  to  the  honor  of  the  high 
table  alone.  When  morning  came  they  thanked 
the  knight  for  their  entertainment,  and  rode 
refreshed  away. 

Other  adventures  were  ready  for  Beaumains 
before  they  had  ridden  far,  for  they  soon  found 
themselves  at  the  side  of  a  river  that  had  but  a 
single  ford,  and  on  the  opposite  side  stood  two 
knights,  ready  to  dispute  the  passage  with  any  who 
should  attempt  it. 

What  say  you   to   this  ? "    asked  the   damsel. 

Will  you  face  yonder  knights,  or  turn  back  ?  " 
I  shall  not  turn;    nor  would  I,  if  there  were 
six  more  of  them.'    You  shall  see  that  I  can  deal 
with  knights  as  well  as  knaves." 

Then  he  rode  into  the  water,  in  the  midst  of 
which  he  met  one  of  the  knights,  their  spears  break- 
ing as  they  came  fiercely  together.  They  then  drew 
their  swords  and  began  a  fierce  fight  in  the  centre 


« 


190  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

of  the  ford.  But  at  last  Beaumains  dealt  his  oppo- 
nent a  blow  on  the  helm  that  stunned  him,  and 
hurled  him  from  his  horse  into  the  water,  where 
he  was  quickly  drowned. 

Beaumains  now  spurred  forward  to  the  land, 
where  the  other  knight  rushed  upon  him  as  he 
touched  shore,  breaking  his  spear,  but  not  shaking 
the  young  champion  in  his  seat.  Then  they  went 
at  it  with  sword  and  shield,  and  with  the  same 
fortune  as  before,  for  Beaumains  quickly  cleaved 
the  helmet  and  brain  of  his  opponent,  and  left  him 
dead  on  the  ground. 

He  now  turned  and  called  proudly  to  the  damsel, 
bidding  her  to  ride  forward,  as  he  had  cleared  the 
ford  for  her  passage. 

"  Alas !  "  she  cried,  "  that  a  kitchen  page  should 
have  the  fortune  to  kill  two  valiant  knights.  You 
fancy  you  have  done  a  doughty  deed,  but  I  deny 
it.  The  first  knight  was  drowned  through  his  horse 
stumbling,  and  the  other  one  you  struck  a  foul  blow 
from  behind.  Never  brag  of  this,  for  I  can  attest 
it  was  not  honestly  done." 

"  You  may  say  what  you  will,"  rejoined  Beau- 
mains. "Whoever  seeks  to  hinder  me  shall  make 
way  or  kill  me,  for  nothing  less  than  death  shall 
stop  me  on  my  quest  to  aid  your  lady." 

"  You  can  boast  loudly  before  a  woman.  Wait 
till  you  meet  the  knights  I  take  you  to,  and  you 
will  be  taught  another  lesson." 

"  Fair  damsel,  if  you  will  but  give  me  courteous 
language,  I  shall  ask  no  more.  As  for  the  knights 
you  speak  of,  let  come  what  will  come." 

"  I  say  this  for  your  own  good ;    for  if  you  con- 


THE  BLACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED  KNIGHTS.      191 

tinue  to  follow  me  you  will  be  slain.  What  you 
have  done  is  by  misadventure,  not  by  prowess.  If 
you  are  wise,  you  will  turn  back  with  what  little 
honor  you  may  claim." 

"  Say  what  you  choose,  damsel,  but  wherever  you 
go  there  go  I,  and  it  will  take  more  than  insulting 
words  to  turn  me  back." 

So  they  rode  on  till  evening,  she  continuing  to 
chide  and  berate  him,  and  bid  him  leave  her,  and 
he  answering  meekly,  but  with  no  abatement  of  his 
resolution. 

Finally  a  strange  sight  came  to  them.  For  be- 
fore them  they  saw  a  black  lawn,  in  whose  midst 
grew  a  black  hawthorn.  On  one  side  of  this  hung 
a  black  banner,  and  on  the  other  a  black  shield, 
while  near  by  stood  a  black  spear  of  great  size,  and 
a  massive  black  horse  covered  with  silk.  Near  by 
was  a  knight  armed  in  black  armor,  who  was  known 
as  the  Knight  of  the  Black  Lawn. 

The  damsel,  on  seeing  this  knight,  bade  Beau- 
mains  flee  down  the  valley,  telling  him  that  he 
might  still  escape,  for  the  knight's  horse  was  not 
saddled. 

"  Gramercy,"  said  Beaumains,  "  will  you  always 
take  me  for  a  coward?  I  fly  not  from  one  man, 
though  he  be  as  black  as  ten  ravens." 

The  black  knight,  seeing  them  approach,  thus 
addressed  the  damsel, — 

"  So,  my  lady,  you  are  here  again !  Have  you 
brought  this  knight  from  King  Arthur's  court  to 
be  your  champion  ?  " 

"  Hardly  so,  fair  sir.  This  is  but  a  kitchen 
knave,   who   was    fed   in    Arthur's   court    through 


192  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

charity,  and  has  followed  me  as  a  cur  follows  his 
master/^ 

'^Why  comes  he  then  in  knightly  guise?  And 
what  do  you  in  such  foul  company  ? '' 

"  I  cannot  get  rid  of  him,  sir.  He  rides  with  me 
in  my  despite.  I  bring  him  here  that  you  may 
rid  me  of  the  unhappy  knave.  Through  mishap 
and  treachery  he  killed  two  knights  at  the  river 
ford,  and  did  other  deeds  that  might  have  been  of 
worth  were  they  fairly  done.  Yet  he  is  but  a  sorry 
poltroon." 

"  I  am  surprised,'^  said  the  black  knight,  "  that 
any  man  of  worth  will  fight  with  him." 

"  They  knew  him  not,"  she  answered,  "  and  fancy 
him  of  some  credit  from  his  riding  with  me,  and 
from  his  brave  show  of  armor." 

"That  may  be,"  said  the  black  knight.  "Yet, 
knave  or  not,  he  looks  like  a  strong  fellow.  This 
much  I  shall  do  to  relieve  you  of  him.  I  shall  put 
him  on  foot,  and  take  from  him  his  horse  and  armor. 
It  would  be  a  shame  to  do  him  more  harm." 

Beaumains  had  heard  all  this,  biting  his  lips  in 
anger.     He  now  scornfully  replied, — 

"  Sir  knight,  you  are  liberal  in  disposing  of  my 
horse  and  armor,  but  beware  you  do  not  pay  a  fair 
price  for  them.  Whether  you  like  it  or  not,  this 
lawn  I  shall  pass,  and  you  will  get  no  horse  or  armor 
of  mine  till  you  win  them  in  open  fight.  Let  me 
see  if  you  can  do  it." 

"  Say  you  so  ?  You  shall  yield  me  this  lady,  or 
pay  dearly  for  it;  for  it  does  not  beseem  a  kitchen 
page  to  ride  with  a  lady  of  high  degree." 

"  If  you  want  her,  you  must  win  her,"  said  Beau- 


THE  BLACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED   KNIGHTS.      193 

mains,  "  and  much  comfort  may  you  get  from  her 
tongue.  As  for  me,  I  am  a  gentleman  born,  and 
of  higher  birth  than  you;  and  will  prove  this  on 
your  body  if  you  deny  it." 

Then  in  hot  anger  they  rode  apart,  and  came 
together  with  a  sound  of  thunder.  The  spear  of  the 
black  knight  broke,  but  Beaumains  thrust  him 
through  the  side,  the  spear  breaking  in  his  body, 
and  leaving  the  truncheon  in  his  flesh.  Yet,  despite 
his  wound,  he  drew  his  sword  and  struck  with 
strength  and  fury  at  his  antagonist.  But  the  fight 
lasted  not  long,  for  the  black  knight,  faint  with  loss 
of  blood,  fell  from  his  horse  in  a  swoon,  and  quickly 
died. 

Then  Beaumains,  seeing  that  the  horse  and  armor 
were  better  than  his  own,  dismounted  and  put  on 
the  dead  knight's  armor.  Now,  mounting  the  sable 
horse,  he  rode  after  the  damsel.  On  coming  up  she 
greeted  him  as  before. 

"  Away,  knave,  the  smell  of  thy  clothes  displeases 
me.  And  what  a  pity  it  is  that  such  as  you  should 
by  mishap  slay  so  good  a  knight !  But  you  will  be 
quickly  repaid,  unless  you  fly,  for  there  is  a  knight 
hereby  who  is  double  your  match." 

"  I  may  be  beaten  or  slain,  fair  damsel,"  said 
Beaumains ;  "  but  you  cannot  drive  me  off  by  foul 
words/  or  by  talking  of  knights  who  will  beat  or 
kill  me.  Somehow  I  ride  on  and  leave  your  knights 
on  the  ground.  You  would  do  well  to  hold  your 
peace,  for  I  shall  follow  you,  whatever  may  happen, 
unless  I  be  truly  beaten  or  slain." 

So  they  rode  on,  Beaumains  in  silence,  but  the 
damsel  still  at  times  reviling,  till  they  saw  approach- 

13 


194     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

ing  them  a  knight  who  was  all  in  green,  both  horse 
and  harness.  As  he  came  nigh,  he  asked  the 
damsel, — 

"  Is  that  my  brother,  the  black  knight,  who  rides 
with  you  ?  " 

"  No,"  she  replied.  "  Your  brother  is  dead. 
This  unhappy  kitchen  knave  has  slain  him  through 
mishap.^^ 

"  Alas !  "  cried  the  green  knight,  "  has  so  noble 
a  warrior  as  he  been  slain  by  a  knave!  Traitor, 
you  shall  die  for  your  deed ! " 

"  I  defy  you,"  said  Beaumains.  "  I  slew  him 
knightly  and  not  shamefully,  and  am  ready  to 
answer  to  you  with  sword  and  spear." 

Then  the  knight  took  a  green  horn  from  his 
saddle-bow,  and  blew  on  it  three  warlike  notes. 
Immediately  two  damsels  appeared,  who  aided  him 
in  arming.  This  done,  he  mounted  his  steed,  took 
from  their  hands  a  green  spear  and  green  shield, 
and  stationed  himself  opposite  Beaumains. 

Setting  spurs  to  their  horses  they  rode  furiously 
together,  both  l)reaking  their  spears,  but  keeping 
their  seats.  Then  they  attacked  each  other,  sword 
in  hand,  and  cut  and  slashed  with  knightly  vigor. 
At  length,  in  a  sudden  wheel,  Beaumains's  horse 
struck  that  of  the  green  knight  on  the  side  and 
overturned  it,  the  knight  having  to  leap  quickly 
to  escape  being  overthrown. 

When  Beaumains  saw  this,  he  also  sprang  to  the 
earth  and  met  his  antagonist  on  foot.  Here  they 
fought  for  a  long  time,  till  both  had  lost  much 
blood. 

"  You  should  be  ashamed  to  stand  so  long  fighting 


THE  ^LACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED  KNIGHTS.      195 

with  a  kitchen  knave,"  cried  the  damsel  at  last  to  the 
green  knight.  "  Who  made  you  knight,  that  you 
let  such  a  lad  match  you,  as  the  weed  overgrows 
the  corn?" 

Her  words  of  scorn  so  angered  the  green  knight 
that  he  struck  a  wrathful  blow  at  Beaumains, 
which  cut  deeply  into  his  shield.  Beaumains, 
roused  by  this  and  by  the  damsel's  language,  struck 
back  with  such  might  on  the  helm  of  his  foe  as  to 
hurl  him  to  his  knees.  Then,  seizing  him,  he  flung 
him  to  the  ground,  and  towered  above  him  with 
upraised  sword. 

"  I  yield  me !  "  cried  the  knight.  "  Slay  me  not, 
I  beg  of  you." 

"  You  shall  die,"  answered  Beaumains,  "  unless 
this  damsel  pray  me  to  spare  your  life,"  and  he 
unlaced  his  helm,  as  with  intent  to  slay  him. 

"  Pray  you  to  save  his  life ! "  cried  the  damsel, 
in  scorn.  .  "  I  shall  never  so  demean  mvself  to  a 
page  of  the  kitchen." 

"  Then  he  shall  die." 

"  Slay  him,  if  you  will.  Ask  me  not  to  beg  for 
his  life." 

"  Alas  !  "  said  the  green  knight,  "  you  would  not 
let  me  die  when  you  can  save  my  life  with  a  word  ? 
Fair  sir,  spare  me,  and  I  will  forgive  you  my 
brother's  death,  and  become  your  man,  with  thirty 
knights  who  are  at  my  command." 

"  In  the  fiend's  name  !  "  cried  the  damsel,  "  shall 
such  a  knave  have  service  of  thee  and  thirty 
knights  ?  " 

"  All  this  avails  nothing,"  said  Beaumains. 
"  You  shall  have  your  life  only  at  this  damsel's 


196      THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

request/'  and  he  made  a  show  as  if  he  would  slay 
him. 

"  Let  him  be,  knave,"  said  the  damsel.  "  Slay 
him  not,  or  you  shall  repent  it." 

"  Damsel,"  said  Beaumains,  "  your  request  is  to 
me  a  command  and  a  pleasure.  His  life  shall  be 
spared,  since  you  ask  it.  Sir  knight  of  the  green 
array,  I  release  you  at  the  damsel's  request,  for  I 
am  bound  by  her  wish,  and  will  do  all  that  she 
commands.^^ 

Then  the  green  knight  kneeled  down  and  did 
homage  with  his  sword. 

"  I  am  sorry,  sir  knight,  for  your  mishap,  and 
for  vour  brother's  death,"  said  the  damsel.  "  I  had 
great  need  of  your  help,  for  I  dread  the  passage 
of  this  forest.'' 

"  You  need  not,"  he  replied.  "  To-night  you 
shall  lodge  at  my  castle,  and  to-morrow  I  will  aid 
you  to  pass  the  forest." 

So  they  rode  to  his  manor,  which  was  not  far 
distant.  Here  it  happened  as  it  had  on  the  even- 
ing before,  for  the  damsel  reviled  Beaumains,  and 
would  not  listen  to  his  sitting  at  the  same  table 
with  her. 

"  Why  deal  you  such  despite  to  this  noble  war- 
rior?" said  the  green  knight.  "You  are  wrong, 
for  he  will  do  you  good  service,  and  whatever  he 
declares  himself  to  be,  T  warrant  in  the  end  you 
will  find  him  to  come  of  right  noble  blood." 

"  You  sav  far  more  of  him  than  he  deserves," 
she  replied.     "  I  know  him  too  well." 

"  And  so  do  T,  for  ho  is  the  best  champion  T 
ever  found  ;  and  T  have  fought  in  my  day  with  many 
worthy  knights." 


THE  BLACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED  KNIGHTS.      197 

That  night,  when  they  went  to  rest,  the  green 
knight  set  a  guard  over  Beaumains's  chamber,  for 
he  feared  some  harm  to  him  from  the  bitter  scorn 
and  hatred  of  the  damsel.  In  the  morning  he  rode 
with  them  through  the  forest,  and  at  parting  said, — 

"  My  lord  Beaumains,  I  and  my  knights  shall 
always  be  at  your  summons,  early  or  late,  or  what 
ever  be  the  service  vou  demand."' 

"  That  is  well  said.  When  I  require  your  service 
it  will  be  to  yield  yourself  and  your  knights  to  King 
Arthur." 

"If  you  bid  us  do  so,  w^e  shall  be  ready  at  all 
times." 

"  Fie  on  you  !  "  said  the  damsel.  "  It  shames 
me  to  see  good  knights  obedient  to  a  kitchen  knave." 

After  they  had  parted  she  turned  to  Beaumains, 
and  said,  despitefully, — 

"  Why  wilt  thou  follow  me,  lackey  of  the  kitchen  ? 
Cast  away  thy  spear  and  shield  and  fly  while  you 
may,  for  that  is  at  hand  which  you  will  not  easily 
escape.  Were  you  Lancelot  himself,  or  any  knight 
of  renown,  you  would  not  lightly  venture  on  a  pass 
just  in  advance  of  us,  called  the  pass  perilous." 

"  Damsel,"  said  Beaumains,  "  he  who  is  afraid 
let  him  flee.  It  would  be  a  shame  for  me  to  turn 
back,  after  having  ridden  so  far  with  you." 

"  You  soon  shall,  whether  it  be  to  your  liking 
or  not,"  replied  the  damsel,  scornfully. 

What  the  damsel  meant  quickly  appeared,  for  in 
a  little  time  they  came  in  sight  of  a  tower  which 
was  white  as  snow  in  hue,  and  with  every  appliance 
for  defence.  Over  the  gateway  hung  fifty  shields 
of  varied  colors,  and  in  front  spread  a  level  meadow. 


198     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

On  this  meadow  were  scaffolds  and  pavilions,  and 
many  knights  were  there,  for  there  was  to  be  a  tour- 
nament on  the  morrow. 

The  lord  of  the  castle  was  at  a  window,  and  as 
he  looked  upon  the  tournament  field  he  saw 
approaching  a  damsel,  a  dwarf,  and  a  knight  armed 
at  all  points. 

"  A  knight-errant,  as  I  live !  ^'  said  the  lord. 
"  By  my  faith,  I  shall  joust  with  him,  and  get  my- 
self in  train  for  the  tournament/' 

He  hastily  armed  and  rode  from  the  gates. 
What  Beaumains  saw  was  a  knight  all  in  red,  his 
horse,  harness,  shield,  spear,  and  armor  alike  being 
of  this  blood-like  color.  The  red  knight  was,  in- 
deed, brother  to  those  whom  Beaumains  had  lately 
fought,  and  on  seeing  the  black  array  of  the  youth, 
he  cried, — 

"  Brother,  is  it  you  ?  What  do  you  in  these 
marshes  ?  " 

"  No,  no,  it  is  not  he,"  said  the  damsel,  "  but  a 
kitchen  knave  who  has  been  brought  up  on  alms 
in  Arthur's  court." 

"  Then  how  got  he  that  armor  ?  " 

"  He  has  slain  your  brother,  the  black  knight, 
and  taken  his  horse  and  arms.  He  has  also  over- 
come your  brother,  the  green  knight.  I  hope  you 
may  revenge  your  brothers  on  him,  for  I  see  no 
other  way  of  getting  rid  of  him." 

"  I  will  try,"  said  the  red  knight,  grimly.  "  Sir 
knight,  take  your  place  for  a  joust." 

Beaumains,  who  had  not  yet  spoken,  rode  to  a 
proper  distance,  and  then  the  two  knights  rushed 
together  with  such  even  force  that  both  horses  fell 


THE  BLACK,  GREEN,  AND  RED   KNIGHTS.      199 

to  the  ground,  the  riders  nimbly  leaping  from  them. 

Then  with  sword  and  shield  they  fought  like 
wild  boars  for  the  space  of  two  hours,  advancing, 
retreating,  feigning,  striking,  now  here,  now  there, 
till  both  were  well  weary  of  the  fray.  But  the 
damsel,  who  looked  on,  now  cried  loudly  to  the 
red  knight, — 

"  Alas,  noble  sir,  will  you  let  a  kitchen  knave 
thus  endure  your  might,  after  all  the  honor  you 
have  won  from  worthy  champions  ?  " 

Then  the  red  knight  flamed  with  wrath,  and 
attacked  Beaumains  with  such  fury  that  he  wounded 
him  so  that  the  blood  flowed  in  a  stream  to  the 
ground.  Yet  the  young  knight  held  his  own 
bravely,  giving  stroke  for  stroke,  and  by  a  final 
blow  hurled  his  antagonist  to  the  earth.  He  had 
raised  his  sword  to  slay  him,  when  the  red  knight 
craved  mercy,  saying, — 

"  Noble,  sir,  you  have  me  at  advantage,  but  I 
pray  you  not  to  slay  me.  I  yield  me  with  the 
fifty  knights  at  my  command.  And  I  forgive  you 
all  you  have  done  to  my  brothers." 

"  That  will  not  suffice,"  said  Beaumains.  "  You 
must  die,  unless  the  damsel  shall  pray  me  to  spare 
your  life."  And  he  raised  his  sword  as  if  for  the 
fatal  blow. 

"  Let  him  live,  then,  Beaumains.  He  is  a  noble 
knight,  and  it  is  only  by  a  chance  blow  that  you 
have  overcome  him." 

"It  is  enough  that  you  ask  it,"  said  Beaumains. 
"  Rise,  sir  knight,  and  thank  this  damsel  for  your 
life." 

The  red  knight  did   so,  and  then  prayed   that 


200     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

they  would  enter  his  castle  and  spend  the  night 
there.  To  this  they  consented,  but  as  they  sat  at 
supper  the  damsel  continued  to  berate  her  cham- 
pion, in  such  language  that  their  host  marvelled 
at  the  meekness  of  the  knight. 

In  the  morning  the  red  knight  came  to  Beau- 
mains  with  his  followers,  and  proffered  to  him  his 
homage  and  fealty  at  all  times. 

"  I  thank  you/'  said  Beaumains,  "  but  all  I  ask 
is,  that  when  I  demand  it  you  shall  go  to  Arthur's 
court,  and  yield  yourself  as  his  knight.'^ 

"  I  and  my  fellowship  will  ever  be  ready  at  your 
summons,^'  replied  the  red  knight. 

Then  Beaumains  and  the  damsel  resumed  their 
journey,  while  she,  as  if  in  a  fury  of  spite,  be- 
rated him  more  vilely  than  ever  before. 

"  Fair  lady,"  he  said,  with  all  meekness,  "  you 
are  discourteous  to  revile  me  as  you  do.  What 
would  you  have  of  me?  The  knights  that  you 
have  threatened  me  with  are  all  dead  or  my  vassels. 
When  you  see  me  beaten,  then  you  may  bid  me 
go  in  shame  and  I  will  obey,  but  till  then  I  will  not 
leave  you.  I  were  worse  than  a  fool  to  be  driven 
off  by  insulting  words  when  I  am  daily  winning 
honor.'^ 

"  You  shall  soon  meet  a  knight  who  will  test 
your  boasted  strength.  So  far  you  have  fought 
with  boys.  Now  you  have  a  man  who  would  try 
Arthur's  self." 

"  Let  him  come,"  said  Beaumains.  "  The  better 
a  man  he  is,  the  more  honor  shall  I  gain  from  a 
joust  with  him." 


THE  RED   KNIGHT  OF  THE  RED  LAWNS.       201 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE    RED    KNIGHT    OF    THE    RED    LAWNS. 

Beaumains  rode  forward  with  the  damsel  till 
it  was  close  upon  the  hour  of  noon,  when  he  saw 
that  they  were  approaching  a  rich  and  fair  city, 
well  walled,  and  with  many  noble  buildings. 

Between  them  and  the  city  extended  a  new-mown 
meadow,  a  mile  and  a  half  in  width,  on  which  were 
placed  many  handsome  pavilions. 

"  These  pavilions  belong  to  the .  lord  who  owns 
that  city,^'  said  the  damsel.  "  It  is  his  custom,  dur- 
ing fair  weather,  to  joust  and  tourney  in  this 
meadow.  He  has  around  him  five  hundred  knights 
and  gentlemen  of  arms,  and  they  have  knightly 
games  of  all  sorts.^' 

"  I  shall  be  glad  to  see  that  worthy  lord,^^  said 
Beaumains. 

"  That  you  shall,  and  very  soon." 

She  rode  on  till  she  came  in  sight  of  the  lord's 
pavilion. 

"  Look  yonder,"  she  said.  "  That  rich  pavilion, 
of  the  color  of  India,  is  his.  All  about  him,  men 
and  women,  and  horse-trappings,  shields,  and  spears, 
are  of  the  same  rare  color.  His  name  is  Sir  Per- 
sant  of  India,  and  you  will  find  him  the  lordliest 
knight  you  ever  saw." 

"  Be  he  never  so  stout  a  knight,"  answered  Beau- 
mains, "  I  shall  abide  in  this  field  till  I  see  him 
behind  his  shield." 

That  is  a  fool's  talk,"  she  replied.     "  If  you 


(6 


202  THE  ADVENTURES  OP  BEAUMA^NS. 

were  a  wise  man,  you  would  fly." 

"  Why  should  I  ?  '^  rejoined  Beaumains.  "  If  he 
be  as  noble  a  knight  as  you  say,  he  will  meet  me 
alone;  not  with  all  his  men.  And  if  there  come 
but  one  at  a  time  I  shall  not  fail  to  face  them  while 
life  lasts." 

"  That  is  a  proud  boast  for  a  greasy  kitchen 
lout,"  she  answered. 

"  Let  him  come  and  do  his  worst,"  said  Beau- 
mains.  "  I  would  rather  fight  him  five  times  over 
than  endure  your  insults.  You  are  greatly  to  blame 
to  treat  me  so  vilely." 

"  Sir,"  she  replied,  with  a  sudden  change  of  tone, 
"  I  marvel  greatly  who  you  are,  and  of  what  kindred 
you  come.  This  I  will  admit,  that  you  have  per- 
formed as  boldly  as  you  have  promised.  But  you 
and  your  horse  have  had  great  labor,  and  I  fear  we 
have  been  too  long  on  the  road.  The  place  we  seek 
is  but  seven  miles  away,  and  we  have  passed  all 
points  of  peril  except  this.  I  dread,  therefore,  that 
you  may  receive  some  hurt  from  this  strong  knight 
that  will  unfit  vou  for  the  task  before  vou.  For 
Persant,  strong  as  he  is,  is  no  niatcli  for  the  knight 
who  besieges  my  lady,  and  I  would  have  you  save 
your  strength  for  the  work  you  have  undertaken." 

"  Be  that  as  it  may,"  said  Beaumains,  "  I  have 
come  so  near  the  knight  that  I  cannot  withdraw 
without  shame.  I  hope,  with  God's  aid,  to  become 
his  master  within  two  hours,  and  tlien  we  can  reach 
your  lady^s  castle  before  the  day  ends." 

"  Much  I  marvel,"  cried  the  damsel,  ''  what  man- 
ner of  man  you  are.  You  must  be  of  noble  blood, 
for  no  woman  ever  before  treated  a  knight  so  shame- 


THE  RED  KNIGHT  OP  THE  RED  LAWNS.       203 

fully  as  I  have  you,  and  you  have  ever  borne  it 
courteously  and  meekly.  Such  patience  could  never 
come  but  from  gentle  blood/^ 

"A  knight  who  cannot  bear  a  woman^s  words 
had  better  doff  his  armor/^  answered  Beaumains. 
"Do  not  think  that  I  heeded  not  your  words. 
But  the  anger  they  gave  me  was  the  worse  for  my 
adversaries,  and  you  only  aided  to  make  me  prove 
myself  a  man  of  worth  and  honor.  If  I  had  meat 
in  Arthur's  kitchen,  what  odds?  I  could  have  had 
enough  of  it  in  many  a  place.  I  did  it  but  to 
prove  who  were  worthy  to  be  my  friends,  and  that 
I  will  in  time  make  known.  Whether  I  be  a  gentle- 
man born  or  not,  I  have  done  you  a  gentle- 
man's service,  and  may  do  better  before  we  part." 

"  That  you  have,  fair  Beaumains,''  she  said.  "  I 
ask  your  forgiveness  for  all  I  have  said  or  done." 

"  I  forgive  you  with  all  my  heart,"  he  replied. 
*^  It  pleases  me  so  to  be  with  you  that  I  have  found 
joy  even  in  your  evil  words.  And  now  that  you 
are  pleased  to  speak  courteously  to  me,  it  seems  to 
me  that  I  am  stout  at  heart  enough  to  meet  any 
knight  living." 

As  to  the  battle  that  followed  between  Beau- 
mains  and  Persant,  it  began  and  ended  much  like 
those  that  we  have  related,  Persant  in  the  end  being 
overcome,  and  gaining  his  life  at  the  lady's  request. 
He  yielded  himself  and  a  hundred  knights  to  be  at 
Beaumains's  command,  atid  invited  the  travellers 
to  his  pavilion,  where  th^y  were  feasted  nobly. 

In  the  morning  Beaumains  and  the  damsel  after 
breakfasting,  prepared  to  continue  their  journey. 

"  Whither  do  you  lead  this  knight  ?  "  asked  Per- 
sant of  the  damsel. 


204  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

"  Sir  knight,'^  she  replied,  "  he  is  going  to  the  aid 
of  my  sister,  who  is  besieged  in  the  Castle  Dan- 
gerous." 

"  Ah !  "  cried  Persant,  "  then  he  will  have  to  do 
with  the  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns,  a  man  without 
mercy,  and  with  the  strength  of  seven  men.  I  fear 
you  take  too  perilous  a  task,  fair  sir.  This  villain 
has  done  great  wrong  to  the  lady  of  the  castle,  Dame 
Lioness.  I  think,  fair  damsel,  you  are  her  sister, 
Linet  ?  " 

That  is  my  name,"  replied  the  damsel. 
This    I    may   say,"    rejoined    Persant:     "the 
Knight  of  the  Eed  Lawns  would  have  had  the  castle  * 
long  ago,  but  it  is  his  purpose  to  draw  to  the  rescue 
Lancelot,  Gawaine,  Tristram,  or  Lamorak,  whom 
he  is  eager  to  match  his  might  against." 

"  My  Lord  Persant  of  India,"  said  Linet,  "  will 
you  not  make  this  gentleman  a  knight  before  he 
meets  this  dread  warrior  ?  " 

"  With  all  my  heart,"  answered  Persant. 

"  I  thank  you  for  your  good  will,"  said  Beau- 
mains,  "  but  I  have  been  already  knighted,  and 
that  by  the  hand  of  Sir  Lancelot." 

"  You  could  have  had  the  honor  from  no  more 
renowned  knight,"  answered  Persant.  "  He,  Tris- 
tram, and  Lamorak  now  bear  the  meed  of  highest 
renown,  and  if  you  fairly  match  the  red  knight 
you  may  claim  to  make  a  fourth  in  the  world's 
best  champions." 

"  I  shall  ever  do  my  best,"  answered  Beaumains. 
"This  I  may  tell  you:  I  am  of  noble  birth.  If 
you  and  the  damsel  will  keep  my  secret  I  will  tell 
it  you." 


THE  RED   KNIGHT  OF  THE  RED  LAWNS.       205 

"  We  shall  not  breathe  it  except  with  your  per- 
mission," they  replied. 

"Then  I  will  acknowledge  that  my  name  is 
Gareth  of  Orkney,  that  King  Lot  was  my  father, 
and  that  I  am  a  nephew  of  King  Arthur,  and 
brother  to  Gawaine,  Gaheris,  and  Agravaine.  Yet 
none  of  these  know  who  I  am,  for  they  left  my 
father's  castle  while  I  was  but  a  child." 

While  they  were  thus  taking  leave,  Beaumains's 
dwarf  had  ridden  ahead  to  the  besieged  castle, 
where  he  saw  the  Lady  Lioness,  and  told  her  of  the 
champion  her  sister  was  bringing,  and  what  deeds 
he  had  done. 

"  I  am  glad  enough  of  these  tidings,"  said  the 
lady.  "  There  is  a  hermitage  of  mine  near  by, 
where  I  would  have  you  go,  and  take  thither  two 
silver  flagons  of  wine,  of  two  gallons  each;  also 
bread,  baked  venison,  and  fowls.  I  give  you  also 
a  rich  cup  of  gold  for  the  knight's  use.  Then  go 
to  my  sister,  and  bid  her  present  my  thanks  to  the 
knight,  and  pray  him  to  eat  and  drink,  that  he 
may  be  strong  for  the  great  task  he  undertakes. 
Tell  him  I  thank  him  for  his  courtesy  and  good- 
ness, and  that  he  whom  he  is  to  meet  has  none  of 
these  qualities,  but  strong  and  bold  as  he  is,  cares 
for  nothing  but  murder." 

This  message  the  dwarf  brought  back,  and  led 
the  knight  and  damsel  to  the  hermitage,  where  they 
rested  and  feasted  on  the  rich  food  provided.  They 
spent  the  night  there,  and  in  the  morning  heard 
mass  and  broke  their  fast.  Then  they  mounted 
and  rode  towards  the  besieged  castle. 

Their  journey   soon   brought   them   to   a   plain, 


206  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

where  they  saw  many  tents  and  pavilions,  and  a 
castle  in  the  distance.  And  there  was  a  great 
noise  and  much  smoke,  as  from  a  large  encampment. 
As  thfey  came  nearer  the  castle  Beaumains  saw  be- 
fore him  a  number  of  great  trees,  and  from  these 
hung  by  the  neck  armed  knights,  with  their  shields 
and  swords,  and  gilt  spurs  on  their  heels.  Of  these 
there  were  in  all  nearly  forty. 

"  What  means  this  sorrowful  sight  ?  '^  asked 
Beaumains,  with  a  look  of  deep  concern. 

"  Do  not  be  depressed  by  what  you  see,"  said 
Linet.  "  You  must  keep  in  spirit,  or  it  will  be 
the  worse  for  you  and  us  all.  These  knights  came 
here  to  the  rescue  of  my  sister,  and  the  red  knight, 
when  he  had  overcome  them,  put  them  to  this 
shameful  death,  without  mercy  or  pity.  He  will 
serve  you  in  the  same  way  if  he  should  vanquish 
you." 

"Jesu  defend  me  from  such  a  shameful  death 
and  disgrace !  "  cried  Beaumains.  "  If  I  must  die, 
I  hope  to  be  slain  in  open  battle.^' 

"  It  would  be  better,  indeed.  But  trust  not  to 
his  courtesy,  for  thus  he  treats  all." 

"It  is  a  marvel  that  so  vile  a  murderer  has  been 
left  to  live  so  long.  I  shall  do  my  best  to  end  his 
career  of  crime." 

Then  they  rode  to  the  castle,  and  found  it  sur- 
rounded with  high  and  strong  walls,  with  double 
ditches,  and  lofty  towers  within.  Near  the  walls 
were  lodged  many  lords  of  the  besieging  army, 
and  there  was  great  sound  of  minstrelsy  and  merry- 
making. On  the  opposite  side  of  the  castle  was  the 
sea,  and  here  vessels  rode  the  waves  and  the  cries 
of  mariners  were  heard. 


THE  RED   KNIGHT  OF  THE  RED  LAWNS.       207 

Near  where  they  stood  was  a  lofty  sycamore- 
tree,  and  on  its  trunk  hung  a  mighty  horn  made 
from  an  elephant's  tusk.  This  the  Knight  of  the 
Red  Lawns  had  hung  there,  in  order  that  any 
errant  knight,  who  wished  to  battle  for  the  castle, 
might  summons  him  to  the  fray. 

"  But  let  me  warn  you,"  said  Linet,  "  not  to 
blow  it  till  noon.  For  it  is  now  nearly  day,  and 
men  say  that  his  strength  increases  till  the  noon- 
tide hour.  To  blow  it  now  would  double  your 
peril." 

"  Do  not  advise  me  thus,  fair  damsel,"  said 
Beaumains.  "  I  shall  meet  him  at  his  highest 
might,  and  win  worshipfully  or  die  knightly  in  the 
field.     It  must  be  man  to  man  and  might  to  might." 

Therewith  he  spurred  his  horse  to  the  sycamore, 
and,  taking  the  horn  in  hand,  blew  with  it  such  a 
blast  that  castle  and  camp  rang  with  the  sound. 

At  the  mighty  blast  knights  leaped  from  their 
tents  and  pavilions,  and  those  in  the  castle  looked 
from  walls  and  windows,  to  see  what  manner  of 
man  was  this  that  blew  so  lustily.  But  the  Red 
Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns  armed  in  all  haste,  for 
he  had  already  been  told  by  the  dwarf  of  the 
approach  of  this  champion.  He  was  all  blood-red 
in  hue,  armor,  shield,  and  spurs.  An  earl  buckled 
on  his  helm,  and  they  then  brought  him  a  red 
steed  and .  a  red  spear,  and  he  rode  into  a  little 
vale  near  the  castle,  so  that  all  within  and  without 
the  castle  might  behold  the  battle. 

"  Look  you  be  light  and  glad,"  said  Linet  to  the 
knight,  "  for  yonder  is  your  deadly  enemy,  and  at 
yonder  window  is  my  sister.  Dame  Lioness." 


208     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

"  Where  ?  "    asked  Beaumains. 

"  Yonder/'  she  said,  pointing. 

"  I  see  her/'  said  Beaumains.  "  And  from  here 
she  seems  the  fairest  lady  I  ever  looked  upon.  I 
ask  no  better  quarrel  than  to  fight  for  her,  and 
wish  no  better  fate  than  to  greet  her  as  my  lady," 
and  his  face  grew  glad  as  he  looked  up  to  the 
window. 

As  he  did  so  the  Lady  Lioness  made  a  grateful 
courtesy  to  him,  bending  to  the  earth  and  holding 
up  her  hands.  This  courtesy  was  returned  by  Beau- 
mains; but  now  the  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns 
rode  forward. 

"  Leave  your  looking,  sir  knight,"  he  said.  "  Or 
look  this  way,  for  I  warn  you  that  she  is  my  lady, 
and  I  have  done  many  battles  for  her." 

"  You  waste  your  time,  then,  it  seems  to  me,  for 
she  wants  none  of  your  love.  And  to  waste  love 
on  those  who  want  it  not  is  but  folly.  If  I  thought 
she  would  not  thank  me  for  it,  I  would  think  twice 
before  doing  battle  for  her.  But  she  plainly  wants 
not  you,  and  I  will  tell  you  this:  I  love  her,  and 
will  rescue  her  or  die." 

"  Say  you  so  ?  The  knights  who  hang  yonder 
might  give  you  warning." 

^^  You  shame  yourself  and  knighthood  by  such 
an  evil  custom,"  said  Beaumains,  hotly.  "  How 
can  any  lady  love  such  a  man  as  you  ?  That  shame- 
ful sight  gives  me  more  courage  than  fear,  for  I 
am  nerved  now  to  revenge  those  knights  as  well  as 
to  rescue  yonder  lady." 

^^  Make  ready/'  cried  the  red  knight ;  "  we  have 
talked  enough." 


THE  RED   KNIGHT  OF  THE  RED  LAWNS.       209 

Then  Beaumains  bade  the  damsel  retire  to  a  safe 
distance.  Taking  their  places,  they  put  their  spears 
in  rest,  and  came  together  like  two  thunderbolts, 
each  smiting  the  other  so  fiercely  that  the  breast- 
plates, horse-girths,  and  cruppers  burst,  and  both 
fell  to  the  earth  with  the  bridle-reins  still  in  their 
hands,  and  they  lay  awhile  stunned  by  the  fall. 

So  long  they  lay  indeed  that  all  who  looked  on 
thought  that  both  their  necks  were  broken,  and 
said  that  the  stranger  knight  must  be  of  mighty 
prowess,  for  never  had  the  red  knight  been  so 
roughly  handled  before. 

But  ere  long  the  knights  regained  their  breath 
and  sprang  to  their  feet.  Then,  drawing  their 
swords,  they  ran  like  fierce  lions  together,  giving 
each  other  such  buffets  on  the  helms  that  both 
reeled  backwards,  while  pieces  were  hewed  out  from 
their  armor  and  shields  and  fell  into  the  field. 

Thus  they  fought  on  till  it  was  past  noon,  when 
both  stopped  for  breath,  and  stood  panting  and 
bleeding  till  many  who  beheld  them  swept  for  pity. 
When  they  had  rested  awhile  they  again  went  to 
battle,  now  gnashing  at  each  other  with  their  swords 
like  tusked  boars,  and  now  running  together  like 
furious  rams,  so  that  at  times  both  fell  to  the 
ground ;  and  at  times  they  were  grappled  so  closely 
that  they  changed  swords  in  the  wrestle. 

This  went  on  till  evening  was  near  at  hand,  and 
so  evenly  they  continued  matched  that  none  could 
know  which  would  win.  Their  armor  was  so  hewn 
away  that  the  naked  flesh  showed  in  places,  and 
these  places  they  did  their  utmost  to  defend.  The 
red  knight  was  a  wily  fighter,  and  Beaumains  suf- 

14 


210  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUA^AINS. 

fered  sorely  before  he  learned  his  methods  and  met 
him  in  his  own  way. 

At  length,  by  mutual  assent,  they  granted  each 
other  a  short  time  for  rest,  and  seated  themselves 
upon  two  hillocks,  where  each  had  his  page  to  unlace 
his  helm  and  give  him  a  breath  of  the  cold  air. 

While  Beaumains's  helm  was  off  he  looked  at  the 
castle  window,  and  there  saw  the  Lady  Lioness,  who 
looked  at  him  in  such  wise  that  his  heart  grew  light 
with  joy,  and  he  bade  the  red  knight  to  make  ready, 
for  the  battle  must  begin  again. 

Then  they  laced  their  helms  and  stepped  together 
and  fought  freshly.  But  Beaumains  came  near  to 
disaster,  for  the  red  knight,  by  a  skilful  sword 
sweep,  struck  his  sword  from  his  hand,  and  then 
gave  him  such  a  buffet  on  the  helm  as  hurled  him  to 
the  earth. 

The  red  knight  ran  forward  to  his  fallen  foe, 
but  Linet  cried  loudly, — 

"Oh,  Beaumains,  where  is  thy  valor  gone? 
Alas,  my  sister  sobs  and  weeps  to  see  you  over- 
thrown, till  my  own  heart  is  heavy  for  her  grief." 

Hearing  this,  Beaumains  sprang  to  his  feet  be- 
fore his  foe  could  reach  him,  and  with  a  leap  recov- 
ered his  sword,  which  he  gripped  with  a  strong 
hand.  And  thus  he  faced  again  his  surprised 
antagonist. 

Then  the  young  knight,  nerved  by  love  and  des- 
peration, poured  such  fierce  blows  on  his  enemy  that 
he  smote  the  sword  from  his  hand  and  brought  him 
to  the  earth  with  a  fiorv  blow  on  the  helm. 

Before  the  red  knight  could  rise,  Beaumains 
threw  himself  upon  him,  and  tore  his  helm  from 


THE  RED   KNIGHT  OF  THE  RED  LAWNS.       211 

his  head  with  intent  to  slay  him.     But  the  fallen 
knight  cried  loudly, — 

0  noble  knight,  I  yield  me  to  thy  mercy.'' 
Why  should  you  have  it,  after  the  shameful 
death  you  have  given  to  so  many  knights  ?  '' 

"  I  did  all  this  through  love,"  answerec^  the  red 
knight.  "  I  loved  a  lady  whose  brother  was  slain 
by  Lancelot  or  Gawaine,  as  she  said.  She  made 
me  swear  on  my  knighthood  to  fight  till  I  met 
one  of  them,  and  put  to  a  shameful  death  all  I 
overcame.  And  I  vowed  to  fight  King  Arthur's 
knights  above  all,  till  I  should  meet  him  that  had 
slain  her  brother." 

Then  there  came  up  many  earls,  and  barons,  and 
noble  knights,  who  fell  upon  their  kne^s  and 
prayed  for  mercy  to  the  vanquished,  saying, — 

"  Sir,  it  were  fairer  to  take  homage  and  fealty 
of  him,  and  let  him  hold  his  lands  of  you,  than  to 
slay  him.  Nothing  wrong  that  he  has  done  will 
be  undone  by  his  death,  and  we  will  all  become 
your  men,  and  do  you  homage  and  fealty." 

"  Fair  lords,"  said  Beaumains,  "  I  am  loath  to 
slay  this  knight,  though  his  deeds  have  been  ill 
and  shameful.  But  as  he  acted  through  a  lady's 
request  I  blame  him  the  less,  and  will  release  him 
on  these  conditions:  He  must  go  into  the  castle 
and  yield  to  the  I^dy  Lioness,  and  make  amends 
to  her  for  his  trespass  on  her  lands;  then  if  she 
forgives  him  I  will.  Afterwards  he  must  go  to 
the  court  of  King  Arthur  and  obtain  forgiveness 
from  Lancelot  and  Gawaine  for  the  ill  will  he  has 
borne  them." 

"  All  this  I  will  do,"  said  the  red  knight,  "  and 


212  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAIN8. 

give  you  pledges  and  sureties  therefor." 

Then  Beaumains  granted  him  his  life,  and  per- 
mitted him  to  rise.  Afterwards  the  damsel  Linet 
disarmed  Beaumains  and  applied  healing  unguents 
to  his  wounds,  and  performed  the  same  service  for 
the  red  knight.  For  ten  days  thereafter  Beaumains 
dwelt  with  the  red  knight,  who  showed  him  all  the 
honor  possible, .  and  who  afterwards  went  into  the 
castle  and  submitted  himself  to  the  Lady  Lioness, 
according  to  the  terms  of  his  compact. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

HOW    BEAUMAINS    WON    HIS   BRIDE. 

After  the  ten  days  of  feasting  and  pleasure  that 
followed  the  events  we  have  just  related,  the  Red 
Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns  set  out  with  his  noblest 
followers  to  Arthur's  court,  to  make  submission 
as  he  had  covenanted.  When  he  had  gone,  Beau- 
mains armed  himself,  took  his  horse  and  spear, 
and  rode  to  the  castle  of  the  Lady  Lioness.  But 
when  he  came  to  the  gate  he  found  there  many 
armed  men,  who  pulled  up  the  drawbridge  and  let 
fall  the  portcullis. 

Marvelling  deeply  that  he  was  denied  admittance, 
Beaumains  looked  up  at  the  window,  where  he  saw 
the  lady  of  the  castle,  who  called  out  to  him, — 

"  Go  thy  way.  Sir  Beaumains.  You  shall  not  yet 
have  my  love  till  you  have  earned  for  yourself  a 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  213 

name  of  world-wide  honor.  I  bid  you,  therefore, 
go  strive  for  fame  and  glory  this  twelvemonth,  and 
when  you  return  you  shall  hear  new  tidings.'' 

"  Alas,  fair  lady,"  said  Beaumains,  "  is  this  all 
I  have  deserved  of  you?  I  thought  I  had  bought 
your  love  at  the  price  of  some  of  the  best  blood  in 
my  body." 

"  Fair,  courteous  knight,  be  not  so  hasty,"  an- 
swered Lioness.  "  Your  labor  and  your  love  shall 
not  be  lost.  A  twelvemonth  will  soon  pass  away; 
and  trust  me  that  I  shall  be  true  to  you,  and  to 
my  death  shall  love  no  other  than  you." 

With  this  she  turned  from  the  window,  and 
Beaumains  rode  slowly  away  from  the  castle  in 
deep  sorrow,  and  heeding  not  whither  he  went  till 
deep  night  came  upon  him.  The  next  day  he  rode 
in  the  same  heedless  fashion,  and  at  night  couched 
in  a  wayside  lodge,  bidding  the  dwarf  guard  his 
horse  and  watch  all  night. 

But  near  day  dawn  came  a  knight  in  black  armor, 
who,  seeing  that  Beaumains  slept  soundly,  crept 
slyly  behind  the  dwarf,  caught  him  up  under  his 
arm,  and  rode  away  with  him  at  full  speed.  But  as 
he  rode,  the  dwarf  called  loudly  to  his  master  for 
help,  waking  tlie  sleeping  knight,  who  sprang  to 
his  feet  and  saw  the  robber  and  the  dwarf  vanishing 
into  the  distance. 

Then  Beaumains  armed  himself  in  a  fury,  and 
rode  straight  forward  through  marshes  and  dales, 
so  hot  upon  the  chase  that  he  heeded  not  the  road, 
and  was  more  than  once  flung  by  his  stumbling 
horse  into  the  mire.  At  length  he  met  a  country- 
man, whom  he  asked  for  information. 


214     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

"Sir  knight/^  he  answered,  "I  have  seen  the 
rider  with  the  dwarf.  But  I  advise  you  to  follow 
him  no  farther.  His  name  is  Sir  Gringamore;  he 
dwells  but  two  miles  from  here,  and  he  is  one  of 
the  most  valiant  knights  of  the  country  round." 

With  little  dread  from  this  warning,  Beaumains 
rode  on,  with  double  fury  as  he  came  near  the  rob- 
ber's castle.  Soon  he  thundered  through  the  gates, 
which  stood  wide  open,  and  sword  in  hand  cried, 
in  a  voice  that  rang  through  the  castle, — 

"  Thou  traitor.  Sir  Gringamore,  yield  me  my 
dwarf  again,  or  by  the  faith  that  I  owe  to  the 
order  of  knighthood  I  will  make  you  repent  bitterly 
your  false  deed." 

Meanwhile,  within  the  castle  matters  of  interest 
were  occurring.  For  Gringamore  was  brother  to 
the  Lady  Lioness,  and  had  stolen  the  dwarf  at  her 
request,  that  she  might  learn  from  him  who  Beau- 
mains  really  was.  The  dwarf,  under  threat  of  im- 
prisonment for  life,  thus  answered, — 

"  I  fear  to  tell  his  name  and  kindred.  Yet  if  I 
must  I  will  say  that  he  is  a  king's  son,  that  his 
mother  is  sister  to  King  Arthur,  and  that  his  name 
is  Sir  Gareth  of  Orkney.  Now,  I  pray  you,  let 
me  go  to  him  again,  for  he  will  have  me  in  spite 
of  you,  and  if  he  be  angry,  he  will  work  you  much 
rack  and  ruin." 

"  As  for  that,"  said  Gringamore,  '"  it  can  wait. 
Let  us  go  to  dinner." 

"  He  may  well  be  a  king's  son,"  said  Liiiet  to  her 
sister,  "for  he  is  the  most  courteous  and  long- 
suffering  man  I  ever  met.  I  tried  him  with  such 
reviling  as  never  lady  uttered  before,  but  he  bore 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  215 

it  all  with  meek  and  gentle  answers.  Yet  to  armed 
knights  he  was  like  a  lion." 

As  they  thus  talked,  the  challenge  of  Beaumains 
rang  loud  from  the  castle  court.  Then  Gringa- 
more  called  loudly  to  him  from  a  window, — 

"  Cease  your  boasting,  Gareth  of  Orkney,  you 
will  not  get  your  dwarf  again.'' 

"  Thou  coward  knight,''  cried  Beaumains. 
"  Bring  him  here,  and  do  battle  with  me.  Then 
if  you  can  win  him,  keep  him." 

"  So  I  will  when  I  am  ready.  But  you  will  not 
^^i  him  by  loud  words." 

"  Do  not  anger  him,  brother,"  said  Lioness.  "  I 
have  all  I  want  from  the  dwarf,  and  he  may  have 
him  again.  But  do  not  let  him  know  who  I  am. 
Let  him  think  me  a  strange  lady." 

"  Very  well,"  said  Gringamore ;  "  if  that  is  your 
vish,  he  can  have  the  dwarf."  Then  he  went  down 
K)  the  court  and  said, — 

"  Sir,  I  beg  your  pardon,  and  am  ready  to  amend 
dl  the  harm  I  have  done  you.  Pray  alight,  and 
take  such  cheer  as  my  poor  castle  affords." 

"  Shall  I  have  mv  dwarf  ?  "   said  Gareth. 

"  Yes.  Since  he  told  me  who  you  are,  and  of 
;our  noble  deeds,  I  am  ready  to  return  him." 

Then  Gareth  dismounted,  and  the  dwarf  came 
md  took  his  horse. 

"  Oh,  my  little  fellow,"  said  Gareth,  "  I  have 
lad  many  adventures  for  your  sake." 

Gringamore  then  led  him  into  the  hall  and  pre- 
sented him  to  his  wife.  And  while  they  stood  there 
conversing  Dame  Lioness  came  forth  dressed  like 
a  princess,  and  was  presented  to  the  knight. 


216  THE  ADVENTURES  OP  BEAUMAINS. 

When  Gareth  saw  her  his  feeling  for  the  Lady 
Lioness  weakened  in  his  heart,  and  it  grew  ready 
to  vanish  as  the  day  passed,  and  he  conversed  much 
with  this  strange  and  lovely  lady.  There  were  all 
manner  of  games,  and  sports  of  dancing  and  sing- 
ing, and  the  more  he  beheld  her  the  more  he  loved 
her,  while  through  his  heart  ran  ever  the  thought: 
"  Would  that  the  lady  of  the  Castle  Dangerous 
were  half  so  lovely  and  charming  as  this  beautiful 
stranger." 

When  supper  came,  Gareth  could  not  eat,  and 
hardly  knew  where  he  was,  so  hot  had  his  love 
grown.  All  this  was  noted  by  Gringamore,  who 
after  supper  took  his  sister  aside  and  said, — 

"  I  can  well  see  how  matters  sta^d  between  you 
and  this  noble  knight.  And  it  seems  to  me  you 
cannot  do  better  than  to  bestow  your  hand  upon 
him." 

"  I  should  like  to  try  him  further,"  she  replied. 
"  though  he  has  done  me  noble  service,  and  my  heart 
is  warmly  turned  to  him." 

Gringamore  then  went  to  Gareth  and  said, — 

"  Sir,  I  welcome  you  gladly  to  my  house,  for  I 
can  see  that  you  dearly  love  my  sister,  and  that  she 
loves  you  as  well.  With  my  will  she  is  yours  if 
you  wish  her." 

"  If  she  will  accept  me,"  answered  Gareth,  "  there 
will  be  no  happier  man  on  earth." 

"  Trust  me  for  that,"  said  Gringamore. 

"  I  fancied  I  loved  the  Lady  Lioness,"  said  Ga- 
reth, "and  promised  for  her  sake  to  return  to  this 
country  in  a  twelvemonth.  But  since  I  have  seen 
your  sister  I  fear  my  love  for  her  is  gone." 


\ 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  217 


u 


It  was  too  sudden  to  be  deep/'  said  Gringa- 
more.  "  She  will  be  consoled,  doubt  not.  Now 
let  me  take  you  to  my  sister." 

Then  he  led  Gareth  to  his  sister  and  left  them 
together,  where  they  told  each  other  their  love, 
and  Gareth  kissed  her  many  times,  and  their  hearts 
were  filled  with  joy. 

"  But  how  is  it  with  the  Lady  Lioness,  to  whom 
you  vowed  your  love  ? ''   she  asked. 

"  Promised ;  not  vowed,"  he  answered.  "  And 
she  was  not  ready  to  accept  it,  but  gave  me  a  twelve- 
month's probation.  Moreover,  I  saw  but  her  face 
at  a  window,  and  that  was  little  to  base  love  upon." 

"  Did  she  look  like  me  ?  " 

"  Somewhat,  but  not  half  so  lovely." 

"  Do  you  think  you  could  have  loved  her  so 
well  ?  " 

"  No,  indeed ;  for  I  will  vow  by  sword  and  spear 
that  there  is  no  woman  in  the  world  so  charming 
as  you." 

"I  fear  that  the  Lady  Lioness  loves  you,  and 
that  her  heart  will  be  broken." 

"  How  could  she  ?     She  saw  so  little  of  me." 

"  I  know  she  loves  vou ;  she  has  told  me  so.  I 
bid  you  to  forget  me  and  make  her  happy." 

"  That  I  can  never  do.  You  do  not  love  me,  or 
you  could  not  say  this." 

"  You  are  my  heart's  desire.  But  I  feel  deeply 
for  the  Lady  Lioness,  whose  love  I  know.  If  you 
cannot  love  her  alone,  you  may  love  us  both  together. 
I  grant  jou  this  privilege." 

"  I  will  not  accept  it,"  said  Gareth,  looking 
strangely  at  her  smiling  countenance.  ^^I  love 
but  you;   my  lieart  can  hold  no  more." 


218     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

"  You  blind  fellow/'  she  answered,  with  a  merry 
laugh,  "you  looked  not  at  the  Lady  Lioness  closely, 
or  you  would  not  so  easily  forget  your  troth  plight. 
Know,  sirrah,  that  I  am  the  lady  of  the  Castle 
Dangerous,  that  my  name  is  Lioness,  and  that  I  am 
she  whom  you  have  so  lightly  thrown  aside  for  the 
love  of  a  strange  lady/' 

Then  Gareth  looked  into  her  glowing  countenance, 
and  saw  there  that  she  spoke  the  truth  and  that 
he  had  been  pleasantly  beguiled.  With  a  warm 
impulse  of  love  he  caught  her  in  his  arms  and 
kissed  her  rosy  lips,  exclaiming, — 

"  I  withdraw  it  all.  I  love  you  both ;  the  lady 
of  the  Castle  Dangerous  a  little;  but  the  lady  of 
the  Castle  Amorous  as  my  heart's  mistress,  to  dwell 
there  while  life  remains." 

Then  they  conversed  long  and  joyfully,  and  she 
told  him  why  she  had  made  her  brother  steal  the 
dwarf,  and  why  she  had  deceived  him,  so  as  to 
win  his  love  for  herself  alone.  And  they  plighted 
their  troth,  and  vowed  .that  their  love  for  each 
other  should  never  cease. 

Other  strange  things  happened  to  Gareth  in  that 
castle,  through  the  spells  of  the  damsel  Linet,  who 
knew  something  of  sorcery.  But  these  we  shall 
not  tell,  but  return  to  King  Arthur's  court,  in  which 
at  the  next  feast  of  Pentecost  a  high  festival  was 
held  at  Carlion. 

Hither,  during  the  feast,  came  all  those  whom 
Gareth  had  overcome,  and  yielded  themselves,  say- 
ing that  they  had  been  sent  thither  by  a  knight 
named  Beaumains.  But  most  of  all  was  Arthur 
surprised  by   the   deeds   of   his   kitchen   boy   when 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  219 

the  Red  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns  rode  up  with 
six  hundred  followers,  and  yielded  himself  as  vas- 
sal to  Beauinains  and  to  the  king.  Arthur  then, 
charging  him  strictly  that  he  should  do  no  more 
deeds  of  murder,  gave  to  Sir  Ironside,  wMch  was 
the  knight's  name,  the  greatest  honors  of  his  court, 
and  also  to  the  green  and  the  red  knights,  and  to 
Sir  Persant  of  Inde,  who  were  all  present  with  their 
followers. 

But  while  the  court  was  at  feast  there  came  in 
the  queen  of  Orkney,  with  a  great  following  of 
knights  and  ladies,  seeking  her  young  son  Gareth. 
She  was  lovingly  saluted  by  her  sons  Gawaine, 
Gaheris,  and  Agravaine,  who  for  fifteen  years  had 
not  seen  her,  but  she  loudly  demanded  Gareth  of 
her  brother  King  Arthur. 

"  He  was  here  among  you  a  twelvemonth,  and 
you  made  a  kitchen  knave  of  him,  which  I  hold 
to  be  a  shame  to  you  all.  What  have  you  done 
to  the  dear  son  who  was  my  joy  and  bliss  ?  " 

These  words  filled  all  hearts  with  a  strange  sen- 
sation, and  most  of  all  that  of  Gawaine,  who 
thought  it  marvellous  that  he  should  have  made 
so  much  of  his  brother  and  not  known  him.  Then 
Arthur  told  his  sister  of  all  that  had  happened, 
and  cheered  her  heart  with  a  recital  of  her  son's 
great  deeds,  and  promised  to  have  the  whole  realm 
searched  till  he  should  be  found. 

"You  shall  not  need,"  said  Lancelot.  "My  ad- 
vice is  that  you  send  a  messenger  to  Dame  Lioness, 
and  request  her  to  come  in  all  haste  to  court.  Let 
her  give  you  counsel  where  to  find  him.  I  doubt 
not  she  knows  where  he  is." 


220  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

This  counsel  seemed  judicious  to  the  king,  and 
he  sent  the  messenger  as  requested,  who  came  in 
due  time  to  the  Castle  Dangerous,  and  delivered 
his  letters  to  Lioness. 

She  hrought  these  to  her  brother  and  Gareth, 
and  asked  what  she  should  do. 

"  My  lady  and  love,"  said  Gareth,  "  if  you  go  to 
Arthur's  court  I  beg  that  you  will  not  let  them 
know  where  I  am.  But  give  this  advice  to  the 
king,  that  he  call  a  great  tournament,  to  be  held 
at  your  castle  at  the  feast  of  the  Assumption,  and 
announce  that  whatever  knight  proves  himself  best 
shall  wed  you  and  win  your  lands.  Be  sure  that 
I  will  be  there  to  do  my  best  in  your  service.^' 

This  advice  pleased  the  lady,  whose  warm  faith 
in  the  prowess  of  her  lover  told  her  that  he  would 
win  in  the  tournament.  She  therefore  set  out  with 
a  noble  escort  and  rode  to  King  Arthur's  court, 
where  she  was  received  with  the  highest  honors. 
The  king  closely  questioned  her  about  Sir  Gareth, 
desiring  particularly  to  know  what  had  become  of 
him.  She  answered  that  where  he  was  she  was  not 
at  liberty  to  tell,  and  said  further  to  the  king, — 

"  Sir,  there  is  a  way  to  find  him.  It  is  my  pur- 
pose to  call  a  tournament,  which  shall  be  held  before 
my  castle  at  the  feast  of  the  Assumption.  You, 
my  lord  Arthur,  must  be  there  with  your  knights, 
and  my  knights  shall  be  against  you.  I  doubt  me 
not  that  then  you  shall  hear  of  Sir  Gareth." 

"That  is  well  advised,"  said  the  king. 

"It  shall  be  announced/'  she  continued,  "that 
the  knight  who  proves  the  best  sha^ll  wod  me  and 
be  lord  of  my  lands.     If  he  be  already  wedded,  his 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HI&  BRIDE.  221 

wife  shall  have  a  coronal  of  gold,  set  with  precious 
stones  to  the  value  of  a  thousand  pounds,  and  a 
white  jerfalcon." 

"  It  is  well,"  said  the  king.  "  That  will  bring 
Sir  Gareth,  if  he  be  alive  and  able  to  come.  If  he 
would  win  you,  he  must  do  his  duty  nobly." 

Soon  after  the  Lady  Lioness  departed  and  re- 
turned to  her  castle,  where  she  told  all  that  had 
passed,  and  began  preparations  for  the  tournament, 
which  was  to  be  held  two  months  from  that  day. 

Gareth  sent  for  Sir  Persant  of  Inde,  and  for  Sir 
Ironside,  the  Red  Knight  of  the  Red  Lawns,  bid- 
ding them  be  ready  with  all  their  followers,  to  fight 
on  his  side  against  King  Arthur  and  his  knights. 
And  the  cry  for  the  tournament  was  made  in  Eng- 
land, Wales  and  Scotland,  Ireland,  and  Cornwall, 
and  in  all  the  out  islands,  and  in  Brittany  and  other 
countries.  Many  good  knights  came  from  afar, 
eager  to  win  honor  in  the  lists,  the  most  of  whom 
held  with  the  party  of  the  castle  against  King 
Arthur  and  his  knights. 

In  due  time  King  Arthur  and  his  following  ap- 
peared at  the  Castle  Dangerous,  there  being  with 
him  Gawaine  and  the  other  brothers  of  Gareth, 
Lancelot  with  his  nephews  and  cousins,  and  all 
the  most  valiant  Knights  of  the  Round  Table,  with 
various  kings  who  owed  him  knightly  service,  as 
noble  a  band  of  warriors  as  had  ever  been  seen  in 
the  land. 

Meanwhile  Dame  Lioness  had  hospitably  enter- 
tained the  knights  of  her  party,  providing  ample 
lodging  and  food,  though  abundance  was  left  to 
be  had  for  gold  and  silver  by  King  Arthur  and  his 
knights. 


222  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

But  Gareth  begged  her  and  all  who  knew  him 
in  no  manner  to  make  known  his  name,  but  to 
deal  with  him  as  if  he  were  the  least  of  their  com- 
pany, as  he  wished  to  fight  in  secret  and  bide  his 
own  time  to  declare  himself. 

"  Sir,"  said  Dame  Lioness  to  him,  "  if  such  be 
your  desire,  I  will  lend  you  a  ring,  whose  virtue 
is  such  that  it  will  turn  that  which  is  green  to 
red,  and  that  which  is  red  to  green ;  and  also  turn 
blue  to  white,  and  white  to  blue,  and  so  with  all 
colors.  And  he  who  wears  it  will  lose  no  blood, 
however  desperately  he  fights.  For  the  great  love 
I  bear  you  I  lend  you  this  ring;  but  as  you  love 
me  heartily  in  return,  let  me  have  it  again  when 
the  tournament  is  done,  for  this  ring  increases  my 
beauty  more  than  it  is  of  itself." 

"  My  own  dear  lady,^^  cried  Gareth,  "  now  indeed 
you  prove  your  love  for  me.  Gladly  shall  I  wear 
that  ring,  for  I  much  desire  not  to  be  known/' 

Then  Sir  Gringamore  gave  Gareth  a  powerful  bay 
courser,  and  a  suit  of  the  best  of  armor;  and  with 
them  a  noble  sword  which  his  father  had  long  before 
won  from  a  heathen  tyrant.  And  so  the  lover  made 
ready  for  the  tournament,  of  which  his  lady-love 
was  to  be  the  prize. 

Two  days  before  the  Assumption  of  our  Lady, 
King  Arthur  reached  the  castle,  and  for  those  two 
days  rich  feasting  was  held,  while  royal  minstrelsy 
and  merry-making  of  all  kinds  filled  every  soul 
with  joy.  But  when  came  the  morning  of  the 
Assumption  all  was  restless  bustle  and  warlike  con- 
fusion. At  an  early  hour  the  heralds  wore  com- 
manded to  blow  to  the  field,  and  soon  from  every 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  223 

side  a  throng  of  knights  was  to  be  seen  riding  gayly 
to  the  lists,  while  a  goodly  host  of  spectators  made 
haste  to  take  their  seats,  all  eager  to  behold  that 
noble  passage-at-arms. 

Valorous  and  worthy  were  the  deeds  that  fol- 
lowed, for  hosts  of  the  best  knights  in  the  world 
had  gathered  in  the  lists,  and  there  was  wondrous 
breaking  of  spears  and  unhorsing  of  knights,  while 
many  who  boasted  of  their  firm  seat  in  the  saddle 
went  headlong  to  the  earth. 

At  length  there  rode  into  the  lists  Sir  Gareth 
and  Sir  Ironside  from  the  castle,  each  of  whom 
smojte  to  the  ground  the  first  knights  that  encoun- 
tered them,  and  before  long  time  had  passed  Gareth 
had  with  one  spear  unhorsed  seven  knights  of 
renown. 

When  King  Agwisance  of  Ireland  saw  this  new- 
comer fare  so  nobly,  he  marvelled  much  who  he 
might  be,  for  at  one  time  he  seemed  green  and  at 
another  blue,  his  color  appearing  to  change  at  every 
course  as  he  rode  to  and  fro,  so  that  no  eye  could 
readily  follow  him. 

"  I  must  try  this  strange  turn-color  knight  my- 
self,^' said  Sir  Agwisance^  and  he  spurred  his  horse 
vigorously  on  Gareth. 

But  with  a  mighty  stroke  of  his  spear  Gareth 
thrust  him  from  his  horse,  saddle  and  all.  Then 
King  Carados  of  Scotland  rode  against  him,  and 
was  hurled  to  the  earth,  horse  and  man.  King 
Uriens  of  Gore,  King  Badgemagus,  and  others  who 
tried  their  fortune,  were  served  in  the  same  manner. 
Then  Sir  Galahalt,  the  high  prince,  cried  loudly, — 

"  Knight   of  the   many   colors,   well   hast   thou 


224  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

jousted;  now  make  ready,  that  I  may  joust  with 
thee/' 

Gareth  heard  him,  and  got  a  great  spear,  and 
quickly  the  two  knights  encountered,  the  prince 
breaking  his  spear.  But  Gareth  smote  him  on  the 
left  side  of  the  helm  so  that  he  reeled  in  his  saddle, 
and  would  have  fallen  had  not  his  men  supported 
him. 

"  Truly,''  said  King  Arthur,  "  that  knight  with 
the  many  colors  is  a  lusty  fighter.  Lancelot,  do 
you  try  his  mettle,  before  he  beats  all  our  best 


men." 


"  Sir,"  said  Lancelot,  "  I  should  hold  it  unjust 
to  meet  him  fresh  after  his  hard  labors.  It  is  not 
the  part  of  a  good  knight  to  rob  one  of  the  honor 
for  which  he  has  worked  so  nobly.  It  may  be  that 
he  is  best  beloved  of  the  lady  of  all  that  are  here, 
for  I  can  see  that  he  enforces  himself  to  do  great 
deeds.  Therefore,  for  me,  he  shall  have  what 
honor  he  has  won ;  though  it  lay  in  my  power  to 
put  him  from  it,  I  would  not." 

And  now.  in  the  lists,  the  breaking  of  spears  was 
followed  by  drawing  of  swords;  and  then  there 
began  a  sore  tournament.  There  did  Sir  Lamorak 
marvellous  deeds  of  arm's,  and  betwixt  him  and 
Sir  Ironside  there  was  a  strong  battle,  and  one  also 
between  Palamides  and  Bleoberis.  Then  came  in 
Lancelot,  who  rode  against  Sir  Turquine  and  his 
brother  Carados,  fighting  them  both  together. 

Seeing  Lancelot  thus  hard  pressed,  Gareth  pushed 
his  horse  between  him  and  his  opponents,  and 
hurtled  them  asunder,  but  no  stroke  would  he  smite 
Sir  Lancelot,  but  rode  briskly  on,  striking  to  right 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  225 

and  left,  so  that  his  path  was  marked  by  the  knights 
he  overturned. 

Afterward  Gareth  rode  out  of  the  press  of  knights 
to  adjust  his  helm^  which  had  become  loosened. 
Here  his  dwarf  came  briskly  up  with  drink,  and 
said  to  him, — 

"  Let  me  hold  your  ring,  that  you  lose  it  not  while 
you  drink.^' 

Gareth  gave  it  to  him,  and  quaffed  deeply  of  the 
refreshing  draught,  for  he  was  burning  with  thirst. 
This  done,  his  eagerness  to  return  to  the  fray  was 
so  great  that  he  forgot  the  ring,  which  he  left  in 
the  keeping  of  the  dwarf,  while  he  replaced  his  helm, 
mounted  his  horse,  and  rode  briskly  back  to  the  lists. 

When  he  reached  the  field  again  he  was  in  yellow 
armor,  and  there  he  rashed  off  helms  and  pulled 
down  knights  till  King  Arthur  marvelled  more  than 
ever  what  knight  this  was,  for  though  his  color 
changed  no  more,  the  king  saw  by  his  hair  that  he 
was  the  same  knight. 

"  Go  and  ride  about  that  yellow  knight,'*  said 
the  king  to  several  heralds,  "and  see  if  you  can 
learn  who  he  is.  I  have  asked  many  knights  of  his 
party  to-day,  and  none  of  them  know  him." 

So  a  herald  rode  as  near  Gareth  as  he  could,  and 
there  he  saw  written  about  his  helm  in  letters  of 
gold,  "  This  helm  is  Sir  Gareth's  of  Orkney.'' 

Then  the  herald  cried  out  as  if  he  were  mad,  and 
many  others  echoed  his  words,  "  The  knight  in 
the  yellow  arms  is  Sir  Gareth  of  Orkney,  King 
Lot's  son ! " 

When   Gareth   saw   that  he   was   discovered   he 

16 


226     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

doubled  his  strokes  in  his  anger,  and  smote  down 
Sir  Sagramore,  and  his  brother  Gawaine. 

"  Oh,  brother  !  '^  cried  Gawaine,  "  I  did  not  deem 
that  you  would  strike  me.  Can  you  not  find  food 
enough  for  your  sword,  without  coming  so  near 
home  ? '' 

On  hearing  this,  Gareth  was  troubled  in  soul, 
and  with  great  force  made  his  way  out  of  the  press, 
meeting  his  dwarf  outside. 

"  Faithless  boy  !  "  he  cried ;  "  you  have  beguiled 
me  foully  to-day  by  keeping  my  ring.  Give  it  to 
me  again;   I  am  too  well  known  without  it." 

He  took  the  ring,  and  at  once  he  changed  color 
again,  so  that  all  lost  sight  of  him  but  Gawaine, 
who  had  kept  his  eyes  fixed  upon  him.  Leaving 
the  lists,  Gareth  now  rode  into  the  forest,  followed 
at  a  distance  by  his  brother,  who  soon  lost  sight 
of  him  in  the  woodland  depths.^ 

When  Gareth  saw  that  he  had  thus  distanced 
his  pursuer;  he  turned  to  the  dwarf  and  asked 
his  counsel  as  to  what  should  now  be  done. 

"  Sir,"  said  the  dwarf,  "  it  seems  best  to  me, 
now  that  you  are  free  from  danger  of  spying,  that 
you  send  my  lady.  Dame  Lioness,  her  ring.  It  is 
too  precious  a  thing  to  keep  from  her." 

"  That  is  well  advised,"  said  Gareth.  "  Take  it 
to  her,  and  say  that  I  recommend  myself  to  her 
good  grace,  and  will  come  when  I  may;  and  pray 
her  to  be  true  and  faithful  to  me,  as  I  will  be  to 
her." 

"It  shall  be  done  as  you  command,"  said  the 
dwarf,  and,  receiving  the  ring,  he  rode  on  his 
errand. 


ii 
ii 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  227 

The  Lady  Lioness  received  him  graciously,  and 
listened  with  beaming  eyes  to  Gareth's  message. 
Where  is  my  knight  ?  "    she  asked. 
He  bade  me  say  that  he  would  not  be  long 
from  you/'  answered  the  dwarf. 

Then,  bearing  a  tender  reply  from  the  lady,  the 
dwarf  sought  his  master  again,  and  found  him 
impatiently  waiting,  for  he  was  weary  and  needed 
repose. 

As  they  rode  forward  through  the  forest  a  storm 
of  thunder  and  lightning  came  up  suddenly,  and 
it  rained  as  if  heaven  and  earth  were  coming  to- 
gether. On  through  this  conflict  of  the  elements 
rode  the  weary  knight  and  the  disconsolate  dwarf, 
under  the  drenching  leaves  of  the  forest,  until  night 
was  near  at  hand.  And  still  it  thundered  and 
lightened  as  if  all  the  spirits  of  the  air  had  gone 
mad. 

At  last,  through  an  opening  in  the  trees,  Gareth 
to  his  delight  beheld  the  towers  of  a  castle,  and 
heard  the  watchman's  call  upon  its  walls. 

"  Good  luck  follows  bad,  my  worthy  dwarf,"  he 
cried.     "  Here  is  shelter ;  let  us  to  it." 

He  rode  to  the  barbican  of  the  castle  and  called 
to  the  porter,  praying  him  in  courteous  language 
to  let  him  in  from  the  storm. 

"  Go  thy  way,"  cried  the  porter,  surlily ;  "  thou 
gettest  no  lodging  here.'' 

"  Say  not  so,  fair  sir.  I  am  a  knight  of  King 
Arthur's,  and  pray  the  lord  or  lady  of  this  castle 
to  give  me  harbor  for  love  of  the  king." 

Then  the  porter  went  to  the  duchess,  and  told 
her  that  a  knight  of  King  Arthur's  sought  shelter. 


228     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

"  I  will  see  him,"  said  the  duchess ;  "  for  King 
Arthur's  sake  he  shall  not  go  harborless." 

Then  she  went  up  into  a  tower  over  the  gate, 
with  great  torch-light,  that  she  might  behold  the 
storm-stayed  wayfarer.  When  Gareth  saw  the  light, 
he  cried  loudly, — 

"  Whether  thou  be  lord  or  lady,  giant  or  cham- 
pion, I  pray  for  harbor  this  night.  If  it  be  th%t  I 
must  fight  for  my  lodging,  spare  me  that  till  morn- 
ing, when  T  have  rested,  for  I  and  my  horse  are 
both  weary." 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  the  lady,  "  you  speak  like  a 
bold  knight  errant.  This  you  must  know,  that 
the  lord  of  this  castle  loves  not  King  Arthur  nor 
any  of  his  court.  Therefore,  it  were  better  for 
you  not  to  enter  here.  If  you  come  in  it  must  be 
under  this  contract,  that  wherever  you  meet  my 
lord,  by  road,  by  lane,  or  by  street,  you  shall  yield 
to  him  as  his  prisoner." 

"  Madam,"  asked  Gareth,  "  what  i*  your  lord's 
name  ?  " 

"  He  is  the  Duke  de  la  Eowse,"  she  answered. 

"  Well,  madam,  it  shall  be  as  you  say.  I  prom- 
ise that  wherever  I  meet  your  lord  I  shall  yield 
me  to  his  good  grace,  with  the  covenant  that  he 
will  do  me  no  harm.  If  I  understand  that  he  will, 
then  shall  I  release  myself  as  best  I  can  with  sword 
and  spear." 

"  You  speak  well  and  wisely,"  answered  the 
duchess,  and  she  ordered  that  the  drawbridge  be 
lowered. 

Gareth  rode  into  the  court-yard,  where  he  alighted 
and  gave  his  horse  to  a  stableman.     Then  he  was 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  229 

led  to  the  hall,  where  his  dwarf  removed  his  armor. 

"  Madam/'  he  said, ."  I  shall  not  leave  this  hall 
to-night.  When  it  comes  daylight  if  any  one  wants 
to  fight  me  he  will  find  me  ready." 

Supper  was  now  prepared,  the  table  being  gar- 
nished with  many  goodly  dishes,  and  the  duchess 
and  other  fair  ladies  sat  by  while  Gareth  ate,  some 
of  them  saying  that  they  never  saw  a  man  of  nobler 
carriage  or  aspect.  Shortly  after  he  had  supped, 
his  bed  was  made  in  the  hall,  and  there  he  rested 
all  night. 

In  the  morning  he  heard  mass  and  took  his  leave 
of  the  duchess  and  her  lady  attendants,  thanking 
her  warmly  for  his  lodging  and  the  good  cheer 
she  had  set  before  him.  She  now  asked  him  his 
name. 

"  Madam,''  he  replied,  "  my  name  is  Gareth  of 
Orkney,  though  some  men  call  me  Beaumains." 

Hearing  this,  she  bade  him  adieu  with  great 
courtesy,  for  she  now  knew  that  she  had  entertained 
the  knight  who  had  rescued  Dame  Lioness,  and  the 
victor  at  the  tournament. 

As  for  Gareth,  he  rode  onward  mile  after  mile, 
till  he  found  himself  on  a  mountain  side,  where 
he  was  confronted  by  a  knight  named  Sir  Bende- 
laine,  who  demanded  that  he  should  joust  or  yield 
himself  prisoner.  Gareth,  angry  at  this  demand, 
rode  against  the  freebooter  and  smote  him  so  furi- 
ously that  his  spear  pierced  his  body,  so  that  he 
died  on  reaching  his  castle. 

Quickly  a  throng  of  his  knights  and  servants, 
furious  at  their  lord's  death,  rode  after  the  victor 
and   assailed   him   fiercely.     When   they   saw   how 


230  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

well  he  defended  himself,  they  attacked  his  horse 
and  killed  it  with  spear-thrusts,  and  then  rushed 
in  a  body  on  the  dismounted  knight.  But  they 
found  him  still  more  than  their  match,  for  one  after 
another  of  them  fell  beneath  his  sword  till  only  four 
were  left.  These  fled  in  terror  to  the  castle,  and 
Gareth,  taking  the  best  of  their  horses,  rode  leisurely 
on  his  way. 

Many  miles  farther  had  he  gone  when  he  found 
himself  near  a  roadside  castle,  from  whose  walls 
there  came  to  his  ears  dismal  lamentations  in  ladies' 
voices.  While  he  stood  wondering  at  this  there 
came  by  a  page. 

"  What  noise  is  that  within  the  castle  ?  '^  asked 
Gareth. 

"  Sir  knight,"  answered  the  page,  "  within  this 
castle  there  are  thirty  ladies,  all  widows,  for  their 
husbands  have  been  slain  by  the  lord  of  the  castle, 
who  is  called  the  brown  knight  without  pity,  and 
there  is  no  more  perilous  knight  now  living.  There- 
fore,''  continued  the  page,  "  I  bid  you  flee." 

"  You  may  be  afraid  of  him/'  said  Gareth ;  "  but 
I  shall  not  flee  for  that." 

Then  the  page  saw  the  brown  knight  coming. 
Lo !  yonder  he  cometh,"  he  said. 
Let  me  deal  with  him,"  said  Gareth. 

AMien  the  brown  knight  saw  a  champion  in  the 
road,  with  spear  in  rest,  awaiting  him,  he  prepared 
quickly  for  the  combat,  and  spurring  his  strong 
war-horse,  rode  furiously  upon  Gareth,  breaking 
his  spear  in  the  middle  of  his  shield.  But  Gareth 
struck  Him  a  fatal  blow  in  return,  for  his  spear 
went  til  rough  his  body,  so  that  he  fell  to  the  ground 
stark  dead. 


66 
66 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  231 

Then  the  victor  rode  into  the  castle,  and  prayed 
the  ladies  that  he  might  find  repose  there  for  the 
night. 

"  Alas !  "  they  cried,  "  that  cannot  be.^' 

"  Give  him  your  best  cheer,''  said  the  page,  "  for 
this  knight  has  killed  your  enemy." 

Hearing  this,  they  joyfully  did  their  utmost  to 
make  him  comfortable.  In  the  morning,  when  he 
was  ready  to  depart,  he  went  to  mass,  and  there  saw 
the  thirty  ladies  kneeling,  and  some  of  them  grovel- 
ling upon  the  tombs,  with  the  greatest  sorrow  and 
llamentation. 

"Fair  ladies,  you  have  my  pity,"  he  said. 
"  Grieve  no  more,  I  pray  you;  your  enemy  is  justly 
punished  for  his  crimes." 

So  with  few  words  he  departed,  and  rode  onward 
till  fortune  brought  him  into  another  mountain. 
Not  far  up  its  slope  had  he  gone  when  he  saw 
before  him  a  sturdy  knight,  who  bade  him  stand  and 
joust. 

"  Who  are  you  ?  "   asked  Gareth. 

"  I  am  the  Dtike  de  la  Rowse." 

"  Then  I  lodged  lately  in  your  castle,  and  prom- 
ised your  lady  that  I  should  yield  unto  you." 

"  Ah ! "  said  the  duke,  "  are  you  that  proud 
knight  who  proffered  to  fight  with  any  of  my  fol- 
lowers ? "  Make  ready,  sirrah ;  I  must  have  a 
passage-at-arms  with  you,  for  I  would  know  which 
of  us  is  the  better  man." 

So  they  spurred  together,  and  Gareth  smote  the 
duke  from  his  horse.  But  in  a  moment  he  was 
on  his  feet,  sword  in  hand,  and  bidding  his  antag- 
onist  to  alight  and  continue  the  battle   on   foot. 


232     THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

Nothing  loath,  Gareth  obeyed,  and  for  more  than  an 
hour  they  fought,  until  both  were  sorely  hurt.  But 
in  the  end  Gareth  got  the  duke  to  the  earth,  and 
bade  him  yield  if  he  would  save  his  life.  At  this 
the  duke  lost  no  time  in  yielding. 

"  Then  must  you  go,''  said  Gareth,  "  unto  my  lord 
King  Arthur  at  the  next  feast,  and  say  that  I,  Sir 
Gareth  of  Orkney,  sent  you." 

"  It  shall  be  done,"  said  the  duke.  "  And  I  am 
at  your  command  all  the  days  of  my  life,  with  a 
hundred  knights  in  my  train." 

This  said,  the  duke  departed,  leaving  Gareth 
there  alone.  But  not  long  had  he  stood  when  he 
saw  another  armed  knight  approaching.  Then 
Gareth  took  the  duke's  shield,  and  mounted,  waiting 
the  new-comer,  who  rode  upon  him  without  a  word 
of  greeting.  And  now,  for  the  first  time,  Gareth 
met  his  match,  for  the  stranger  knight  held  his 
seat  unharmed,  and  wounded  him  in  the  side  with 
his  spear. 

Then  they  alighted  and  drew  their  swords,  and 
for  two  hours  they  fought,  till  the  blood  flowed 
freely  from  them  both. 

As  they  thus  fought  there  came  that  way  the 
damsel  Linet,  riding  on  an  ambling  mule.  When 
she  saw  them,  she  cried, — 

"  Sir  Gawaine,  Sir  Gawaine,  leave  off  fighting 
with  thy  brother  Gareth." 

When  Gawaine,  for  it  was  indeed  he,  heard  this, 
he  threw  down  his  shield  and  sword  and  ran  to 
Gareth,  whom  he  took  in  his  arms,  and  then  kneeled 
down  and  asked  his  mercy. 

"  Who  are  you,"  asked  Gareth,  "  that  one  minute 
fight  me  so  strongly  and  yield  the  next  ?  " 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  233 

"  Oh,  Gareth,  I  am  your  brother  Gawaine/^ 

Then  Gareth  unlaced  his  helm,  and  kneeled  to 
him  and  asked  his  mercy.  Both  now  rose  and 
embraced  each  other,  weeping  so  that  it  was  long 
brfore  they  could  speak.  When  their  voices  re- 
turned th«y  entered  into  a  brotherly  contest,  for 
each  insisted  that  the  other  had  won  the  battle.  As 
they  thus  stood  in  loving  converse,  the  damsel  Linet 
came  up  to  them,  and  stanched  their  wounds,  from 
which  the  blood  was  flowing  freely. 

"  What  will  you  do  now  ? "  she  asked.  "  It 
seems  to  me  that  my  lord  Arthur  should  have 
news  of  you,  for  your  horses  are  too  bruised  to 
carry  you.'^ 

"  It  is  well  said,''  answered  Gawaine.  "  Will 
you,  fair  damsel,  bear  word  to  him?" 

Then  she  took  her  mule  and  rode  to  where  the 
king  abode,  he  then  being  at  a  castle  scarcely  two 
miles  distant.  The  tidings  she  brought  him  cheered 
his  heart  wonderfully,  for  much  had  the  disap- 
pearance of  Gareth  troubled  him.  Turning  to  his 
attendants,  he  ordered  that  a  palfrey  should  be 
saddled  in  all  haste. 

When  he  was  in  the  saddle  he  turned  to  the  won- 
dering lords  and  ladies  and  told  them  whither  he 
went,  bidding  all  who  wished  to  greet  Sir  Gareth 
to  follow.  Then  was  there  hasty  saddling  and 
bridling  of  queens'  horses  and  princes'  horses,  and 
happiest  were  they  who  soonest  got  ready. 

But  the  king  rode  on  till  he  came  where  Gawaine 
and  Gareth  sat  upon  a  little  hill-side,  and  here  he 
sprang  from  his  horse  and  embraced  Gareth  as 
though  he  were  his  own  son.     Quickly  behind  him 


234     THE  ADVENTURES  OP  BEAUMAINS. 

came  his  sister  Morgause,  who  fell  into  a  swoon 
when  she  saw  her  dear  young  son.  And  the  other 
knights  and  ladies  came  up  in  all  haste,  and  great 
was  tlie  joy  that  all  felt.  After  congratulations 
had  passed,  and  the  two  brothers  been  removed  to 
a  place  where  their  wounds  could  be  attended  to, 
the  Dame  Lioness  was  sent  for,  and  came  at  the 
utmost  speed,  with  her  brother  Sir  Gringamore  and 
forty  knights. 

Among  all  the  ladies  there  she  was  the  fairest 
and  peerless.  And  when  Gareth  saw  her,  so  loving 
were  the  looks  and  joyous  the  words  between  them, 
that  all  who  beheld  it  were  filled  with  delight. 

Eight  days  passed  before  Gareth  and  his  brother 
recovered  from  their  wounds.  Then  Arthur  came 
to  him,  with  Guenever,  and  Morgause,  and  others 
of  high  degree,  and  asked  him  if  he  would  have 
the  Lady  Lioness  for  his  wife. 

"  My  lord,  I  love  her  above  all  ladies  living.'^ 

"  Now,  fair  lady,  what  say  you  ? "  asked  the 
king. 

'"  Most  noble  king,"  replied  Lioness,  with  blushing 
face,  "  my  lord  Gareth  is  more  to  me  than  any 
king  or  prince  that  was  ever  christened.  If  I  may 
not  have  him,  none  will  I  ever  have.  My  first  love 
is  he,  and  my  last  he  shall  be." 

"  And  if  I  have  you  not  as  my  wife,"  broke  in 
Gareth,  "  never  shall  lady  living  give  joy  to  my 
heart." 

''  What,  nephew,"  said  the  king,  "  is  the  wind  in 
that  door?  Then  not  for  my  crown  would  I  sever 
two  such  loving  hearts,  but  would  much  prefer  to 
increase  than  to  distress  your  love." 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  235 

Arid  words  to  the  same  effect  said  Gareth's 
mother. 

Then  provision  was  made  for  a  brilliant  and 
joyous  wedding,  the  king  advising  that  it  should 
take  place  on  the  Michaelmas  following,  at  Kin- 
kenadon  by  the  seaside,  where  is  a  plentiful  country. 
And  so  it  was  cried  in  all  places  through  the  realm. 

Dame  Lioness  and  the  damsel  Linet,  with  Sir 
Gringamore,  now  rode  to  their*  castle,  where  she 
gave  Gareth  a  jewelled  ring  and  received  one  from 
him,  while  Arthur  gave  her  a  rich  bee  of  gold. 
Then  Arthur  and  his  following  rode  towards  Kin- 
kenadon.  Gareth  soon  followed,  and  joined  Arthur 
on  his  way. 

Oh,  the  great  cheer  that  Lancelot  now  made  of 
Gareth,  and  Gareth  of  him;  for  there  was  never 
knight  that  Gareth  loved  as  he  did  Lancelot.  But 
he  cared  less  for  his  brother  Gawaine,  who  was 
revengeful,  and  disposed  to  murder  where  he  hated, 
a  feeling  which  the  young  knight  abhorred. 

When  Michaelmas  came  near.  Dame  Lioness  with 
her  brother  and  sister  rode  to  Kinkenadon,  where 
they  were  lodged  at  the  expense  of  King  Arthur, 
who  had  prepiared  for  them  royally. 

And  upon  Michaelmas  day  the  bishop  of  Canter- 
bury performed  the  wedding  ceremony  between 
Gareth  and  the  Lady  Lioness  with  all  solemnity, 
and  in  the  presence  of  a  noble  and  splendid  gather- 
ing of  the  greatest  lords  and  highest  ladies  of  Eng- 
land's realm. 

And  here  other  weddings  took  place,  for  King 
Arthur  devised  that  Gaheris  should  wed  the  damsel 
Linet,  and  that  Agravaine  should  wed  Dame  Laurel, 
a  fair  lady,  niece  to  the  Lady  Lioness. 


236  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  BEAUMAINS. 

When  these  weddings  were  done  another  solemn- 
ity took  place;  for  there  came  into  the  church  the 
various  knights  whom  Gareth  had  overcome,  each 
with  his  knightly  followers,  and  with  them  the 
thirty  ladies  whom  he  had  delivered  from  the  brown 
knight,  attended  by  many  gentlewomen.  All  the 
knights  did  homage  and  fealty  to  Gareth,  and  the 
ladies  kneeled  and,  prayed  heartily  that  happiness 
might  be  his  lot  throughout  his  life. 

Afterwards  there  was  high  feasting,  and  all  man- 
ner of  games  and  revels,  with  the  richest  minstrelsy, 
and  jousts  that  lasted  three  days.  But  the  king 
would  not  suffer  Sir  Gareth  to  joust  because  of  his 
new  bride;  for  the  Dame  Lioness  had  desired  that 
none  who  were  newly  married  should  joust  at  that 
feast. 

On  the  first  day  Sir  Lamorak  won  the  honor  of 
the  lists,  for  he  overthrew  thirty  knights  and  did 
marvellous  feats  of  arms.  And  that,  day  King 
Arthur  made  Sir  Persant  of  Inde  and  his  two 
brothers,  Knights  of  the  Round  Table,  and  gave 
them  great  lands. 

On  the  second  day  Sir  Tristram  jousted  best,  and 
overthrew  forty  knights.  And  on  that  day  the 
king  made  Sir  Ironside,  the  Red  Knight  of  the 
Red  Lawns,  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table,  and  gave 
him  great  lands. 

On  the  third  day  the  prize  of  valor  fell  to  Sir 
Lancelot,  who  overthrew  fifty  knights  and  did  such 
marvellous  deeds  that  all  men  wondered  at  him. 
And  now  King  Arthur  made  the  Duke  de  la  Rowse 
a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table,  and  gave  him  great 
lands  to  spend. 


HOW  BEAUMAINS  WON  HIS  BRIDE.  237 

•Thus  ended  the  festivities  at  the  marriage  of  Sir 
Gareth  of  Orkney  and  the  Lady  Lioness.  But 
Gareth  and  his  lovely  bride  lived  long  and  happily 
together  afterwards,  and  much  knightly  renown 
he  won,  and  great  honor  from  all  men. 


BOOK  VI. 

TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  THE  FAIR 

ISOLDE. 


CHAPTER  I. 

HOW    TRISTRAM    WAS    KNIGHTED. 

Sad  was  the  day  when  the  renowned  knight, 
Tristram  of  Lyonesse,  was  born,  for  on  that  day 
his  mother  died,  and  his  father  lay  in  prison  through 
the  arts  of  an  enchantress.  Therefore  he  was 
called  Tristram,  which  signifies  one  of  a  sorrowful 
birth. 

It  happened  that  when  he  was  seven  years  of 
age  his  father.  King  Meliodas,  of  the  country  of 
Lyonesse,  married  again.  His  first  wife  had  been 
Elizabeth,  sister  of  King  Mark  of  Cornwall.  He 
now  married  the  daughter  of  King  Howell  of  Brit- 
tany, a  woman  who  proverl  of  evil  soul. 

For  after  the  new  queen  had  children  of  her 
own  she  grew  to  hate  the  boy  who  stood  between 
her  son  and  the  throne  of  Lyonesse,  and  so  bitter 
grew  her  hatred  that  in  the  end  she  laid  a  foul 
plot  for  his  murder.  She  put  poison  in  a  silver 
cup  in  the  chamber  where  the  young  princes  were 
used  to  play  together,  with  the  hope  that  Tristram 
when  thirsty  would  drink  from  that  cup.  But  fate 
so  willed  that  the  queen's  own  son  drank  of  the 

238 


HOW  TRISTRAM  WAS  KNIGHTED.  239 

poisoned  cup,  when  thirsty  from  play,  and  died 
of  it. 

This  fatal  error  filled  the  queen  with  deep  an- 
guish, but  it  added  doubly  to  her  hate,  and  with 
murderous  intent  she  again  put  the  poisoned  cup 
into  the  chamber.  But  God  protected  the  boy,  for 
this  time  King  Meliodas,  being  thirsty,  saw  the 
envenomed  cup  of  wine,  and  took  it  up  with  purpose 
to  drink  Before  he  could  do  so  the  queen,  who 
was  near  by,  ran  hastily  forward,  snatched  the 
deadly  cup  from  his  hand,  and  threw  its  contents 
on  the  floor. 

This  hasty  act  filled  the  king  with  suspicion,  for 
the  sudden  death  of  his  young  son  had  seemed  to 
him  like  the  work  of  poison.  In  a  burst  of  passion 
he  caught  the  guilty  woman  fiercely  by  the  hand, 
drew  his  sword,  and  swore  a  mighty  oath  that  he 
would  kill  her  on  the  spot,  unless  she  told  him 
what  had  been  in  the  cup  and  why  it  was  put  there. 

At  this  threat  the  queen,  trembling  and  weeping 
with  fright,  acknowledged  that  it  had  been  her 
design  to  kill  Tristram,  in  order  that  her  son  should 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  Lyonesse. 

"  Thou  false  traitress  and  murderess !  "  cried  the 
king  in  redoubled  passion.  "  By  my  royal  soul,  you 
shall  have  the  fate  you  designed  for  my  son.  A 
worse  one  you  shall  have,  for  you  shall  be  burned 
at  the  stake  as  a  poisoner." 

Then  he  called  a  council  of  his  barons,  who  con- 
firmed this  sentence  on  learning  the  dark  crime 
of  the  queen,  and  by  the  order  of  the  court  a  fire 
of  execution  was  prepared,  and  the  murderess  bound 
to  the  stake,  while  fagots  were  heaped  about  her 
drooping  form. 


240     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONE8SE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

The  flames  were  already  kindled,  and  were  crawl- 
ing like  deadly  serpents  through  the  dry  wood,  but 
before  they  could  reach  the  condemned  queen  young 
Tristram  kneeled  before  his  father  and  begged  him 
a  boon. 

"  You  shall  have  it,  my  son.  What  would  you 
ask  ?  " 

^^  Grant  me  the  life  of  the  queen.  I  cannot  bear 
to  see  her  die  so  terrible  a  death." 

"Ask  not  that,"  said  the  king.  "You  should 
hate  her  who  would  have  poisoned  you.  I  have 
condemned  her  more  for  your  sake  than  my  own." 

"Yet  I  beseech  you  to  be  merciful  to  her.  I 
have  forgiven  her,  and  pray  God  to  do  so.  You 
granted  me  my  boon  for  God's  love,  and  I  hold 
you  to  j^our  promise." 

"  If  you  will  have  it  so,  I  cannot  withdraw  my 
word,"  said  the  king.  "I  give  her  to  you.  Go  to 
the  fire  and  take  her,  and  do  with  her  what  you 
will." 

This  gladdened  the  boy's  heart,  which  had  been 
full  of  horror  at  the  dreadful  spectacle,  and  he 
hastened  to  release  the  victim  from  the  flames. 

But  after  that  Meliodas  would  have  nothing  to 
do  with  her  until  after  years  had  passed,  when 
Tristram  reconciled  them  with  each  other.  And 
he  sent  his  son  from  the  court,  being  afraid  the 
pardoned  murderess  might  devise  some  new  scheme 
for  his  destruction.  The  noble-hearted  lad  was 
therefore  given  as  tutor  a  learned  gentleman  named 
Gouvernail,  who  took  him  to  France,  that  he  might 
learn  the  language  and  be  taught  the  use  of  arms. 
There  he  remained  seven  years,  learning  not  only 


HOW  TRISTRAM  WAS  KNIGHTED.  241 

the  language,  but  the  art  of  minstrelsy,  till  he 
became  so  skilful  that  few  could  equal  him  in  the 
use  of  the  harp  and  other  instruments  of  music. 
And  as  he  grew  older  he  practised  much  in  hunting 
and  hawking,  and  in  time  became  famous  also  for 
his  skill  in  this  noble  art.  He  in  after-life  devised 
many  terms  used  in  hunting,  and  bugle  calls  of  the 
chase,  so  that  from  him  the  book  of  venery,  or  of 
hunting  and  hawking,  came  to  be  called  the  "  Book 
of  Sir  Tristram.^^ 

Thus  Tristram  grew  in  accomplishments  and 
nobleness  till  he  attained  the  age  of  nineteen  years, 
when  he  had  become  a  youth  of  handsome  face  and 
powerful  form,  being  large  of  size  and  vigorous  of 
limb.  The  king,  his  father,  had  great  joy  in  his 
promise  of  lusty  manhood,  and  so  had  the  queen, 
whose  heart  had  been  won  to  Tristram  when  he 
saved  her  from  the  flames,  and  who  loved  him  ever 
afterwards  as  much  as  she  had  hated  him  in  his 
childhood.  Every  one  loved  him,  indeed,  for  he 
proved  himself  a  noble  and  gentle-hearted  youth, 
loval  and  kind  to  all  he  met,  and  with  a  heart  free 
from  evil  thoughts  or  selfish  desires. 

He  had  learned  the  use  of  arms,  and  knew  well 
how  to  wield  the  shield  and  sword,  though  as  yet 
he  had  not  sought  knighthood  by  deeds  of  battle; 
but  events  were  preparing  that  would  bring  him 
soon  from  youth  to  manhood.  For  it  so  happened 
that  King  Anguish  of  Ireland  sent  to  King  Mark 
of  Cornwall,  demanding  from  him  tribute  which 
he  said  was  due,  but  had  not  been  paid  for  many 
vears.  Kin^r  Mark  sent  word  back  that  he  owed 
and  would  pay  no  tribute;   and  that  if  the  King 

16 


242     TRISTRAM  OP  LYONE8SE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

of  Ireland  wished  to  prove  his  claim,  he  must  send 
a  knight  who  could  overcome  King  Mark's 
champion. 

King  Anguish  was  very  angry  at  this  answer, 
hut  accepted  the  challenge,  and  sent  as  his  cham- 
pion Sir  Marhaus,  brother  to  his  wife,  that  valiant 
knight  who  had  gone  with  Gawaine  and  Uwaine 
to  the  country  of  strange  adventures,  and  had  after- 
wards been  made  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table. 

Marhaus  accepted  the  chanipionship,  and  hastened 
to  Cornwall,  where  he  sent  his  challenge  to  King 
Mark ;  but  the  latter  had  taken  no  steps  to  provide 
himself  with  a  worthy  champion.  Marhaus  there- 
upon encamped  near  the  castle  of  Tintagil,  whither 
he  daily  sent  a  demand  to  King  Mark  either  to  pay 
the  tribute  or  to  find  a  knight  to  fight  his  battle. 

Anxious  efforts  were  now  made  by  the  Cornish 
monarch  to  find  a  champion,  some  of  the  barons 
advising  him  to  send  to  King  Arthur's  court  for 
Ijancelot  du  Lake.  But  others  dissuaded  the  king 
from  this,  saying  that  neither  Lancelot  nor  any 
Knight  of  the  Round  Table  would  fight  against 
their  fellow-knight  Marhaus.  Thus  the  King  of 
Cornwall  was  sore  put  to  it  to  find  a  champion  fit 
to  hold  the  field  against  such  a  knight  as  Marhaus. 

Word  of  this  soon  spread  over  the  country  and 
quickly  reached  the  castle  of  Meliodas,  to  which 
3^oung  Tristram  had  long  before  returned.  The 
heart  of  the  ardent  youth  filled  with  anger  when 
he  learned  that  not  a  knight  could  be  found  in  all 
Cornwall  al)le  and  willing  to  do  battle  with  the 
Irish  champion. 

In  fervent  haste  he  sought  his  father,  and  asked 


HOW  TRISTRAM  WAS  KNIGHTED.  243 

him  what  was  to  be  done  to  save  Cornwall  from 
this  disgrace. 

"  I  know  not,"  answered  the  king.  "  Marhaus 
is  one  of  the  best  knights  of  the  Round  Table, 
and  there  is  no  knight  in  this  country  fit  to  cope 
with  him." 

"  I  wish  heartily  that  I  were  a  knight,"  cried 
Tristram  hotlv.  "  If  I  were,  Sir  Marhaus  should 
never  depart  to  Ireland  and  boast  that  all  Cornwall 
could  not  furnish  a  knight  ready  to  break  a  spear 
with  him.  I  pray  you,  dear  father,  to  let  me  ride 
to  King  Mark's  court,  and  beg  of  him  to  make 
me  a  knight  and  choose  me  as  his  champion." 
Your  spirit  honors  you,  my  son,"  said  Meliodas. 
You  have  it  in  you  to  become  an  able  knight, 
and  I  give  you  full  leave  to  do  as  your  courage 
prompts  you." 

Tristram  thanked  his  father  warmly  for  this 
assent,  and,  taking  horse,  rode  without  delay  to  the 
castle  of  his  uncle  King  Mark.  When  he  reached 
there  he  found  the  king  depressed  in  spirit  and 
the  whole  court  deep  in  gloom,  for  it  seemed  as  if 
no  champion  could  be  found,  and  that  the  tribute 
must  be  paid.  Tristram  went  at  once  to  his  uncle 
and  said  with  modest  ardor, — 

"  Sir,  it  is  a  shame  and  disgrace  that  Cornwall 
has  no  champion.  I  am  but  an  untried  youth,  yet, 
if  you  will  give  me  the  order  of  knighthood,  I 
stand  ready  to  do  battle  for  you  with  Sir  Marhaus." 

"  Who  are  you,  and  whence  come  you  ?  "  asked 
the  king. 

"I  come  from  King  Meliodas,  who  wedded  your 
sister,  and  I  am  a  gentleman  bom." 


244     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

Hope  came  into  the  king^s  eyes  when  he  saw 
how  large  and  strongly  built  was  his  youthful 
visitor,  and  marked  the  spirit  of  battle  in  his  eyes, 
but  he  again  demanded  his  name  and  place  of  birth. 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  and  I  was  born  in  the 
country  of  Lyonesse,"  answered  the  youth. 

"  You  speak  with  spirit,  and  look  like  the  making 
of  a  good  warrior,''  said  the  king.  "  If  you  agree 
to  do  this  battle,  T  will  grant  you  knighthood." 

"It  is  that,  and  that  alone,  brings  me  here," 
answered  Tristram. 

Then  the  king  knighted  him,  and  at  once  sent 
word  to  Sir  Marhaus  that  he  had  a  champion  ready 
to  do  battle  with  him  to  the  uttermost. 

"  That  may  well  be,"  answered  Marhaus,  "  but 
I  fight  not  with  every  springal.  Tell  King  Mark 
that  I  shall  fight  with  none  but  one  of  royal  blood. 
His  champion  must  be  son  either  of  a  king  or  a 
queen." 

This  answer  King  Mark  gave  to  Tristram,  and 
said,  gloomily, — 

"  I  fear  this  rules  out  your  championship." 

"  Xot  so,"  said  Tristram.  "  I  came  not  here  to 
boast,  but  if  I  must  tell  my  lineage,  you  may  let 
him  know  that  I  am  of  as  noble  blood  as  he.  My 
father  is  King  Meliodas,  and  my  mother  was  Eliza- 
beth, your  own  sister.     I  am  the  heir  of  Lyonesse." 

"  Is  it  so?"  cried  the  king,  clasping  the  youth's 
hands  gladly.  "  Then  I  bid  you  warmly  welcome, 
my  fair  nephew,  and  I  could  ask  no  l)etter  nor 
nobler  champion." 

He  sent  word  in  all  haste  to  Marhaus  that  a  better 
born  man  than  himself  should  fight  with  him,  the 


HOW  TRISTRAM  WAS  KNIGHTED.  245 

son  of  King  Meliodas,  and  his  own  nephew.  And 
while  he  waited  an  answer  he  took  care  to  find  for 
his  nephew  the  best  horse  and  the  finest  suit  of 
armor  that  gold  could  procure.  By  the  time  he 
was  thus  provided  word  came  back  from  Marhaus 
that  he  would  be  glad  and  blithe  to  fight  with  a 
gentleman  of  such  noble  birth.  And  he  requested 
that  the  combat  should  take  place  in  an  island  near 
which  lay  his  ships.  This  being  accepted,  Tristram 
was  sent  thither  in  a  vessel,  with  his  horse  and 
armor,  but  attended  only  by  his  tutor  Gouvernail, 
whom  he  now  made  his  squire. 

On  reaching  the  island  Tristram  saw  on  the 
further  shore  six  ships,  but  he  saw  no  knight. 
Then  he  bade  Gouvernail  to  bring  his  horse  ashore 
and  arm  him.  This  done,  he  mounted  and  took 
his  shield,  and  then  said, — 

"  Where  is  this  knight  with  whom  I  have  to 
fight  ?     I  see  him  not." 

"Yonder  he  hovers,''  answered  Gouvernail, 
"  under  the  shadow  of  the  ships.  He  waits  you 
on  horseback,  and  fully  armed." 

"  True  enough.  I  see  him  now.  All  is  well. 
Do  you  take  the  vessel  and  go  back  to  my  uncle 
Mark,  and  tell  him  that  if  I  be  slain  it  will  not 
be  through  cowardice,  and  pray  him,  if  I  die  in 
fair  fight,  to  see  that  I  be  interred  honorably;  but 
if  I  should  prove  recreant  then  he  sliall  give  me 
no  Christian  burial.  And  come  you  not  near  the 
island,  on  your  life,  till  you  see  me  overcome  or 
slain,  or  till  I  give  you  the  signal  of  victory." 

Then  Gouvernail  departed,  weeping,  for  his' young 
master  had  spoken  so  resolutely  that  he  dared  not 


246     TRISTRAM  OP  LYONESSB  AND  PAIR  ISOLDE. 

disobey.  Tristram  now  rode  boldly  towards  Sir 
Marhaus,  who  came  forward  to  meet  him.  Much 
courteous  conversation  passed  between  the  two 
knights,  Tristram  at  the  end  saying, — 

"  I  trust.  Sir  Marhaus,  to  win  honor  and  renown 
from  3^ou,  and  to  deliver  Cornwall  from  tribute 
forever,  and  to  this  end  I  shall  do  my  best  in  all 
valor  and  honor.^' 

"  Fair  sir,"  answered  Marhaus,  "  your  spirit 
pleases  me;  but  as  for  gaining  honor  from  me,  you 
will  lose  none  if  you  keep  back  three  strokes  beyond 
my  reach,  for  King  Arthur  made  me  not  Knight 
of  the  Round  Table  except  for  good  cause.^' 

"  That  may  well  be,"  answered  Tristram ;  "  but 
if  I  show  the  white  feather  in  my  first  battle  may 
I  never  bear  arms  again." 

Then  they  put  their  spears  in  rest  and  rode  so 
furiously  together  that  both  were  hurled  to  the 
earth,  horse  and  man  alike.  But  Tristram  had 
the  ill  fortune  to  receive  a  Severe  wound  in  the 
side  from  the  spear  of  his  adversary. 

Heedless  of  this,  he  drew  his  sword  and  met 
Marhaus  boldly  and  bravely.  Then  they  began  a 
fierce  and  desperate  fight,  striking  and  foining, 
rushing  togther  in  furious  onset,  and  drawing  back 
in  cautious  heed,  while  the  ring  of  sword  on  armor 
Avas  like  that  of  hammer  on  anvil.  Hours  passed 
in  the  fight,  and  the  blood  flowed  freely  from  the 
wounds  which  each  had  received,  yet  still  they  stood 
boldly  up  to  the  combat.  But  Tristram  proved  a 
stronger  and  better-winded  man  than  Marhaus,  and 
was  still  fresh  when  his  enemy  was  growing  weary 
and  faint.     At  the  end  he  threw  all  his  strength 


\ 


HOW  TRISTRAM   WAS  KNIGHTED.  247 

into  his  right  arm,  and  smote  Marhaus  so  mighty 
a  blow  on  the  helm  that  it  cut  down  through  the 
steel  covering  and  deep  into  his  head,  the  sword 
sticking  so  fast  that  Tristram  could  hardly  pull 
it  out. 

When  he  did  so  the  edge  of  the  sword  was  left  in 
the  skull,  and  the  wounded  knight  fell  heavily  on 
his  knees.  But  in  a  minute  he  rose  and,  flinging 
his  sword  and  shield  away,  fled  hastily  to  his  ships. 

"  Why  do  you  withdraw,  Knight  of  the  Round 
Table ?^^  cried  Tristram.  "I  am  but  a  young 
knight,  but  before  I  would  fly  from  an  adversary 
I  would  abide  to  be  cut  into  a  thousand  pieces." 

Marhaus  answered  only  with  deep  groans  of  pain 
and  distress. 

Go  thy  way  then,  sir  knight,"  said  Tristram. 

I  promise  you  your  sword  and  shield  shall  be 
mine,  and  1  will  wear  your  shield  in  the  sight  of 
King  Arthur  and  all  the  Round  Table,  to  let  them 
see  that  Cornwall  is  not  a  land  of  cowards." 

While  he  stood  thus,  hot  with  anger,  the  sails 
of  the  ships  were  spread,  and  the  fleet  sailed  away, 
leaving  the  victor  alone  on  the  island.  He  was 
deeply  wounded  and  had  bled  profusely,  and  when 
he  grew  cold  from  rest  could  hardly  move  his  limbs. 
So  he  seated  himself  upon  a  little  hillock,  while  his 
wounds  still  bled  freely.  But  Gouvernail,  who  had 
kept  within  sight  in  the  vessel,  and  had  seen  the  end 
of  the  combat,  now  hastened  gladly  to  the  island, 
where  he  bound  up  the  young  knight's  wounds,  and 
then  brought  him  to  the  main  land.  Here  King 
Mark  and  his  barons  came  in  procession  to  meet 
him,  their  hearts  full  of  joy  and  triumph,  and. the 


6( 


248     TRISTRAM  OF  LY0NES8E  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

victor  was  borne  in  glad  procession  to  the  castle 
of  Tintagil.  When  King  Mark  saw  his  deep  and 
perilous  wounds  he  wept  heartily,  and  cried, — 

"  God  help  me,  I  would  not  for  all  my  lands  tjiat 
my  nephew  should  die !  ^' 

But  Tristram  lay  in  groaning  pain  for  more  than 
a  month,  ever  in  danger  of  death  from  the  spear- 
wound  he  had  received  from  Sir  Marhaus.  For  the 
spear-head  was  poisoned,  and  no  leech  in  the  land, 
with  his  most  healing  remedy,  could  overcome  the 
deadly  effect  of  that  venom.  The  king  sent  far 
and  wide  for  skilled  doctors,  but  none  could  be 
found  whose  skill  was  of  any  avail.  At  length  there 
came  a  learned  woman  to  the  court,  who  told  them 
plainly  that  the  wounded  man  could  never  be  cured 
except  in  the  country  from  which  the  venom  came. 
He  might  be  helped  there,  but  nowhere  else. 

When  King  Mark  heard  this  he  had  a  good  vessel 
prepared,  in  which  Tristram  was  placed,  under 
charge  of  Gouvernail,  and  so  set  sail  for  Ireland, 
though  all  were  strictly  warned  not  to  tell  who  they 
were  or  whence  they  came. 

Long  before  this  the  fleet  of  Marhaus  had  arrived 
on  the  Irish  coast,  and  the  wounded  knight  been 
borne  to  the  king's  court,  where  all  was  done  that 
could  be  to  save  his  life,  but  in  vain. 

He  died  soon  of  his  deep  wound,  and  when  his 
head  was  examined  by  the  surgeons  they  found 
therein  a  piece  of  Tristram's  sword,  which  had 
sunk  deep  into  his  skull.  This  piece  the  queen,  his 
sister,  kept,  for  she  was  full  of  revengeful  thoughts, 
and  she  hoped  by  its  aid  to  find  the  man  to  whom 
he  owed  his  death. 


LA  BELLE  ISOLDE.  249 


CHAPTER  II. 

LA    BELLE    ISOLDE. 

When  Tristram  arrived  in  Ireland,  chance  so 
provided  that  he  landed  near  a  castle  in  which  the 
king  and  queen,  with  all  their  court,  then  were. 
He  had  brought  his  harp  with  him,  and  on  his 
arrival  sat  up  in  his  bed  and  played  a  merry  lay, 
which  gave  joy  to  all  that  heard  it. 

Word  was  quickly  brought  to  the  king  that  a 
harper  of  wonderful  skill  had  reached  his  shores, 
and  he  at  once  sent  to  have  him  brought  to  the 
castle,  where  he  asked  him  his  name  and  whence 
he  came. 

"  My  name,"  replied  the  wounded  knight,  ^^  is 
Tramtrist;  I  am  of  the  country  of  Lyonesse,  and 
the  wound  from  which  I  suffer  was  received  in  a 
battle  I  fought  for  a  lady  who  had  been  wronged." 

"  You  shall  have  all  the  help  here  we  can  give 
you,"  said  King  Anguish.  "  I  have  just  met  with 
a  sad  loss  m^^self,  for  the  best  knight  in  my  kingdom 
has  been  slain." 

Then  he  told  Tristram  of  the  battle  with  King 
Mark's  champion,  little  dreaming  that  the  knight 
to  whom  he  spoke  knew  far  more  about  it  than 
he  did  himself. 

"  As  for  your  wound,"  said  the  king,  "  my 
daughter.  La  Belle  Isolde,  is  a  leech  of  wonderful 
skill,  and  as  you  seem  so  worthy  a  man  I  shall  put 
you  under  her  care." 


250    TRISTRAM  OF  LYON£SSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

This  said,  he  departed,  and  sent  his  daughter  to 
the  knight;  but  no  sooner  did  Tristram  behold 
her  than  he  received  a  deeper  wound  from  love  than 
he  had  yet  had  from  sword  or  spear.  For  La  Belle 
Isolde  was  the  most  beautiful  lady  in  the  world, 
a  maiden  of  such  wondrous  charm  and  grace  that 
no  land  held  her  equal. 

When  she  examined  the  young  knight's  wound 
she  quickly  saw  that  he  was  suffering  from  poison, 
but  it  was  a  venom  with  which  she  knew  well  how 
to  deal,  and  she  was  not  long  in  healing  his  deep 
hurt.  In  return  for  this  great  service,  he  tau^t 
her  the  art  of  harping,  while  the  love  he  felt  for 
her  soon  left  some  reflection  of  its  warm  presence 
in  her  soul. 

But  she  already  had  a  lover  in  the  court,  a  worthy 
and  valiant  Saracen  knight  named  Palamides,  who 
sought  her  day  after  day,  and  made  her  many  gifts, 
for  his  love  for  her  was  deep.  He  was  well  esteemed 
by  the  king  and  queen,  and  had  declared  his  willing- 
ness to  be  made  a  Christian  for  the  sake  of  La  Belle 
Isolde.  In  consequence  there  soon  arose  hot  blood 
between  Tristram  and  Palamides,  for  each  feared 
that  the  other  was  a  favored  rival. 

And  now  it  happened  that  King. Anguish  an- 
nounced a  tournament  to  be  held  in  honor  of  a 
cousin  of  his  called  the  Lady  of  the  I^wns,  it  being 
declared  that  the  grand  prize  of  the  tournament 
should  be  the  hand  of  the  lady  and  the  lordship 
of  her  lands.  The  report  of  this  tournament  spread 
through  England,  Wales,  and  Scotland,  reaching 
even  to  Brittany,  and  France,  and  many  knights 
came  to  try  their  fortune  in  the  lists. 


LA  BELLE  ISOLDE.  251 

When  the  day  drew.  :&ear  the  fair  Isolde  told 
Tristram  of  the  tournament,  and  expressed  a  warm 
desire  that  he  would  take  part  in  it. 

"  Fair  lady,"  he  answered,  "  I  am  as  yet  but 
feeble,  and  only  for  your  generous  care  might  be 
dead.  I  should  be  glad  to  obey  any  wish  of  yours, 
but  vou  know  that  I  am  not  in  condition  for  the 
lists.^^^ 

"  Ah,  Tramtrist,"  she  replied,  "  I  trust  that  you 
may  be  able  to  take  part  in  this  friendly  joust. 
Palamides  will  be  there,  and  I  hoped  that  you 
would  meet  him,  for  I  fear  that  otherwise  he  will 
not  find  his  equal." 

"  You  do  me  great  honor,"  he  replied.  "  You 
forget  that  I  am  but  a  young  knight,  and  that  in 
the  only  battle  I  have  fought  I  was  wounded  nearly 
unto  death.     But  for  the  love  I  have  for  vou  I  shall 

ft/ 

^ttend  the  tournament,  and  jeopard  my  poor  per- 
son for  your  sake,  if  you  will  only  keep  my  counsel 
and  let  no  person  know  that  I  have  entered  the 
lists." 

"  That  shaU  I,"  she  replied,  gladly.  "  Horse  and 
armor  shall  be  ready  for  you,  and  I  but  ask  you 
to  do  your  best.     I  am  sure  your  best  must  win." 

"  With  Isolde's  eyes  upon  me  I  can  do  no  less," 
answered]  Tristram,  with  a  glad  heart.  "I  am  at 
your  command  in  all  things,  and  for  your  love 
would  dare  tenfold  this  risk." 

When  the  day  of  the  tournament  came,  Pala- 
mides appeared  in  the  lists  with  a  black  shield, 
and  so<  many  knights  fell  before  him  that  all  the 
people  marvelled  at  his  prowess.  Throughout  the 
first  day^s  fight  he  held  his  own  against  all  comers. 


252     TRISTRAM  OF  LYON£SS£  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

bearing  off  the  honors  of  the  lists.  As  for  Tris- 
tram, he  sat  among  the  spectators,  and  when  King 
Anguish  asked  him  why  he  did  not  joust,  replied 
that  he  was  still  too  weak  from  his  wound. 

On  the  morning  of  the  next  day  Palamides  came 
early  into  the  field,  and  began  the  same  career  of 
conquest  as  on  the  day  before.  But  in  the  midst 
of  his  good  fortune  there  rode  into  the  lists  an 
unknown  knight,  who  seemed  to  the  spectators  like 
an  angel,  for  his  horse  and  his  armor  were  of  the 
whiteness  of  snow. 

No  sooner  had  Palamides  espied  this  stranger 
than  he  put  his  spear  in  rest  and  rode  against  him 
at  furious  speed.  But  there  came  a  sudden  change 
in  his  fortunes,  for  the  white  knight  struck  him 
with  such  force  as  to  hurl  him  from  his  horse  to  the 
ground. 

Then  there  arose  a  great  noise  and  uproar  among 
the  people,  for  they  had  grown  to  think  that  no 
knight  could  face  the  Saracen,  and  Gawaine  and 
others  whom  he  had  overthrown  marvelled  who  this 
stranger  knight  could  be.  But  Isolde  was  glad 
at  heart,  for  the  love  of  Palamides  was  a  burden 
to  her,  and  well  she  knew  the  knight  of  the  white 
arms. 

As  for  the  Palamides,  he  was  so  ashamed  and  dis- 
concerted by  his  fall  that,  on  mounting  his  horse 
again,  he  sought  privately  to  withdraw  from  the 
field.  But  the  white  knight  rode  hastily  after  him 
and  bade  him  turn,  saying  that  he  should  not  leave 
the  lists  so  lightly.  At  these  words  Palamides 
turned  and  struck  a  fierce  sword-blow  at  the  white 
champion.     But    the   latter   put   the    stroke   aside. 


LA  BELLE  ISOLDE.  253 

and  returned  it  with  so  mighty  a  buffet  on  the 
Saracen's  head  that  he  fell  from  his  horse  to  the 
earth. 

Then  Tristram — for  he  was  the  white  knight — 
bade  him  vield  and  consent  to  do  his  command,  or 
he  would  slay  him.  To  this  Palamides  agreed,  for 
he  was  hurt  past  defence. 

This,  then,  is  my  command,"  said  Tristram. 

First,  upon  pain  of  your  life,  you  shall  cease  your 
suit  of  the  lady  La  Belle  Isolde,  and  come  not  near 
her.  Second,  for  a  year  and  a  day  you  shall  wear 
no  armor  or  weapons  of  war.  Promise  me  this,  or 
you  shall  die." 

"  This  is  a  bitter  penance,"  cried  Palamides. 
"  You  shame  me  before  the  world.  For  nothing  less 
than  life  would  I  consent." 

But  he  took  the  oath  as  Tristram  commanded, 
and  then  in  anger  and  despite  threw  off  his  armor 
and  cut  it  into  pieces,  flinging  the  fragments  away. 
Then  he  departed,  weighed  down  with  sadness  and 
shame. 

This  done,  Tristram  left  the  lists,  where  he  could 
find  no  knight  willing  to  fight  with  him,  and  rode 
to  the  private  postern  of  the  castle  whence  he  had 
come  to  the  field.  Here  he  found  the  fair  Isolde 
awaiting  him  with  a  joyous  face  and  a  voice  of 
thanks,  praising  him  so  highly  that  the  knight  was 
abashed  with  modest  shame,  though  gladness  filled 
his  heart.  And  when  she  had  told  the  king  and 
queen  that  it  was  Tramtrist  who  had  vanquished 
the  Saracen,  they  treated  him  as  if  he  had  been 
of  royal  blood,  for  he  had  shown  such  prowess  as 
Lancelot  himself  could  not  exceed. 


X 


254     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

After  this  Tristram  dwelt  long  in  the  castle, 
highly  esteemed  by  the  king  and  queen,  and  loved 
by  La  Belle  Isolde,  whose  heart  he  had  fully  won 
by  his  prowess  in  the  tournament.  Those  were  days 
of  joy  and  gladness,  too  soon,  alas  to  end,  for  he 
loved  her  with  all  his  soul,  and  saw  his  heaven  in 
her  eyes,  while  for  all  his  love  she  gave  him  th6 
warm  devotion  of  a  true  heart  in  return. 

But  fate  at  length  brought  this  dream  of  happi- 
ness to  an  end.  For  on  a  day  when  Tristram  was 
in  the  bath,  attended  by  his  squire  Gouvernail, 
chance  brought  the  queen  and  Isolde  into  the  cham- 
ber of  the  knight.  On  the  bed  lay  his  sword,  and 
this  the  queen  picked  up  and  held  it  out  for  Isolde's 
admiration,  as  the  blade  which  had  done  such  noble 
work  in  the  tournament. 

But  as  she  held  it  so  she  saw  that  there  was  a 
gap  in  the  edge,  a  piece  being  broken  out  about  a 
foot  from  the  point.  At  sight  of  this  she  let  the 
weapon  fall,  while  her  heart  gave  a  great  bound  of 
pain  and  anger. 

"  Liar  and  traitor,  have  I  found  you  at  last ! " 
she  cried,  in  an  outbreak  of  rage.  "  It  is  this  false 
villain  that  slew  my  brother  Marhaus !  " 

With  these  words  she  ran  in  haste  from  the 
chamber,  leaving  Isolde  trembling  with  dread  for 
her  lover,  for  though  she  knew  not  the  cause  of  the 
queen's  rage,  she  knew  well  how  cruel  she  could  be 
in  her  passion. 

Quickly  the  queen  returned,  bringing  with  her 
the  fragment  of  steel  that  had  been  found  In 
Marhaus's  skull,  and,  snatching  up  the  sword,  she 
fitted    this    into    the    broken    place.     It    fitted    so 


LA  BELLE  ISOLDE.  255 

closely  that  the  hlade  seemed  whole.  Then  with 
a  cry  of  passionate  rage  the  furious  woman  ran  to 
where  Tristram  was  in  the  bath,  and  would  have 
run  him  through  had  not  Gouvernail  caught  her 
in  his  arms  and  wrested  the  sword  from  her  hand. 

Failing  in  this  deadly  intent,  she  tore  herself 
from  the  squire's  grasp  and  flew  to  the  king,  throw- 
ing herself  on  her  knees  before  him  and  crying, — 

"  Oh,  my  lord  and  husband !  you  have  here  in 
your  house  that  murderous  wretch  who  killed  my 
brother,  the  noble  Sir  Marhaus !  ^' 

"  Ha  !  can  that  be  ?  '^  said  the  king.  "  Where  is 
he?" 

"  It  is  Tramtrist,"  she  replied.  "  It  is  that  vil- 
lanous  knight  whom  our  daughter  healed,  and  who 
has  shamefully  abused  our  hospitality."  And  she 
told  him  by  what  "strange  chance  she  had  made  this 
discovery. 

"  Alas  !  "  said  the  king,  *^  what  you  tell  me  grieves 
me  to  the  heart.  I  never  saw  a  nobler  knight  than 
he,  and  I  would  give  my  crown  not  to  have  learned 
this.  I  charge  you  to  leave  him  to  me.  I  will  deal 
with  him  as  honor  and  justice  demand." 

Then  the  king  sought  Tristram  in  his  chamber, 
and  found  him  there  fully  armed  and  ready  to 
mount  his  horse.  ' 

"  So,  Tramtrist,  you  are  ready  for  the  field,"  he 
said.  "  I  tell  you  this,  that  it  will  not  avail  you 
to  match  your  strength  against  my  power.  But 
I  honor  you  for  your  nobility  and  prowess,  and  it 
-would  shame  me  to  .slay  my  guest  in  my  court; 
therefore,  I  will  let  you  depart  in  safott,  on  con- 
dition that  you  tell  me  your  name  and  that  of  your 


256     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

father,  and  if  it  was  truly  you  that  slew  my  brother. 
Sir  Marhaus/' 

"Truly  it  was  so,"  said  Tristram.  "But  what 
I  did  was  done  in  honor  and  justice,  as  you  well' 
know.  He  came  as  a  champion  and  defied  all  the 
knights  of  Cornwall  to  battle,  and  I  fought  him 
for  the  honor  of  Cornwall.  It  was  my  first  battle, 
for  I  was  made  a  knight  that  very  day.  And  no 
man  living  can  say  that  I  struck  him  foully." 

"  I  doubt  me  not  that  you  acted  in  all  knightly 
honor,"  answered  the  king.  "  But  you  cannot  stay 
in  my  country  against  the  ill-will  of  my  barons, 
my  wife,  and  her  kindred." 

"  As  for  who  I  am,"  continued  the  knight,  "  my 
father  is  King  Meliodas  of  Lyonesse,  and  my  uncle 
King  Mark  of  Cornwall.  My  name  is  Tristram; 
but  when  I  was  sent  to  your  country  to  be  cured 
of  my  wound  I  called  myself  Tramtrist,  for  I 
feared  your  anger.  I  thank  you  deeply  for  the  kind 
welcome  you  have  given  me,  and  the  goodness  my 
lady,  your  daughter,  has  shown  me.  It  may  happen 
that  you  will  win  more  by  my  life  than  by  my 
death,  for  in  England  I  may  yet  do  you  some 
knightly  service.  This  I  promise  you,  as  I  am 
a  true  knight,  that  in  all  places  I  shall  hold  myself 
the  servant  and  knight  of  my  lady,  your  daughter, 
and  shall  never  fail  to  do  in  her  honor  and  service 
all  that  a  knight  may.  Also  I  beseech  you  that  I 
may  take  leave  of  your  barons  and  knights,  and  pray 
you  to  grant  me  leave  to  bid  adieu  to  your  daughter." 

"  I  cannot  well  refuse  you  this,"  said  the  king.    , 

With  this  permission,  Tristram  sou  orb t  La  Belle 
Isolde,  and  sadly  bade  her  farewell,  telling  her  who 


LA  BELLE  ISOLDE.  257 

he  was,  why  he  had  changed  his  name,  and  for  what 
purpose  he  had  come  to  Ireland. 

"  Had  it  not  been  for  your  care  and  skill  I  should 
now  have  been  dead,"  he  said. 

"  Gentle  sir,"  she  sadly  replied,  "  I  am  woeful 
indeed  that  you  should  go,  for  I  never  saw  man  to 
whom  I  felt  such  good-will  as  to  you." 

And  she  wept  bitterly  as  she  held  out  her  hand  in 
adieu.  But  Tristram  took  her  in  his  arms  and 
kissed  away  her  tears. 

"  I  love  you,  Isolde,  as  my  soul,"  he  said.  ^^  If 
this  despite  of  fate  shall  stand  between  you  and 
me,  this  I  promise,  to  be  your  knight  while  life  is 
left  to  me." 

"  And  this  I  promise,"  answered  Isolde,  "  that 
if  I  am  married  within  these  seven  years  it  shall 
only  be  by  your  assent !  If  they  stand  between  me 
and  my  love,  at  least  they  shall  not  force  me  to 
wed  against  your  will." 

Then  she  gave  Tristram  a  ring  and  received  one 
from  him  in  return,  and  he  departed  from  her  with 
a  pain  as  if  the  parting  wrenched  their  hearts 
asunder,  while  she  beheld  him  go  with  such  tears 
and  lamentation  that  it  seemed  as  if  her  faithful 
heart  would  break. 

Tristram  next  sought  the  great  hall  of  the  court, 
where  were  assembled  the  barons  of  King  Anguish, 
and  took  his  leave  of  them  all,  saying, — 

"  Fair  lords,  fortune  wills  that  I  must  leave  you. 
If  there  be  any  man  here  whom  I  have  offended 
or  aggrieved  let  him  make  complaint  now,  and  I 
shall  amend  the  wrong  so  far  as  it  is  in  my  power. 
If  there  be  any  who  may  incline  to  say  a  wrongful 

17 


258     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AVD  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

thing  of  me  behind  my  back,  let  him  speak  now, 
and  I  will  make  it  good  with  him,  body  against 
body." 

But  no  man  spoke  in  reply.  There  were  knights 
there  of  the  blood  of  Sir  Marhaus  and  the  queen, 
but  none  that  cared  to  have  to  do  in  the  field  against 
Sir  Tristram. 

So  bidding  them  all  adieu,  he  departed,  and  took 
ship  for  Tintagil,  in  Cornwall. 


« 


CHAPTER  III. 


THE   WAGER   OF    BATTLE. 


When  tidings  came  to  King  Mark  that  Tristram 
had  returned  to  Cornwall,  cured  of  his  wounds, 
the  king  and  all  his  barons  were  glad,  and  on  the 
arrival  of  the  knight  he  was  treated  with  the  great- 
est honor.  No  long  time  passed  before  he  rode 
to  the  castle  of  his  father.  King  Meliodas,  who 
received  him  with  fatherly  love  and  pride,  while 
the  queen  greeted  him  with  the  warmest  joy.  And 
that  their  knightly  son  should  have  wherewithal 
to  make  a  fair  show  in  the  world,  they  parted  with 
much  of  their  lands  and  wealth  to  him,  endowing 
him  with  broad  estates  and  lordlv  castles. 

Afterwards,  at  his  father's  desire,  who  wished  his 
son  to  gain  all  honor,  Tristram  returned  to  the 
court  of  Cornwall,  where  he  was  gladly  wel- 
comed.    And  here,  though  his  love  for  La  Belle 


THE  WAGER  OF  BATTLE.  259 

Isolde  lay  deep  in  his  heart,  it  was  dimmed  by 
later  feelings,  for  there  were  many  fair  ladies  at 
the  court,  and  the  young  knight  was  at  that  age 
when  the  heart  is  soft  and  tender. 

In  the  end  it  happened  that  a  jealousy  and  un- 
friendliness arose  between  King  Mark  and  him. 
This  grew  with  time,  and  in  the  end  the  king,  who 
was  base  and  treacherous  of  soul,  waylaid  Tris- 
tram, aided  by  two  knights  of  his  counsel,  and 
sought  to  slay  him.  But  so  valiantly  did  he  defend 
himself  that  he  hurled  the  three  to  the  earth, 
wounding  the  king  so  deeply  that  he  was  long  in 
recovering. 

The  king  now  grew  to  hate  his  young  guest  bit- 
terly, and  laid  plans  to  destroy  him.  Finally,  it 
occurred  to  him  to  send  Tristram  to  Ireland  for 
La  Belle  Isolde,  whose  beauty  and  goodness  the 
young  knight  had  praised  so  warmly  that  King 
Mark  had  it  in  his  heart  to  wed  her.  But  his  main 
purpose  in  sending  Tristram  to  Ireland  was  to  com- 
pass his  destruction,  for  he  knew  how  he  was  hated 
there. 

Tristram  was  not  blind  to  the  danger  into  which 
this  mission  might  bring  him,  and  suspected  the 
purpose  of  the  king,  but  his  love  of  adventure  was 
so  great  that  for  it  he  was  ready  to  dare  any  risk. 

As  for  Isolde,  absence  and  affection  for  other 
ladies  had  dimmed  his  passion  for  her,  so  that  for 
the  time  his  love  was  forgotten,  and  he  came  to 
look  upon  it  as  a  youthful  episode  not  knowing 
how  deeply  it  still  lay  under  all  these  later  feelings. 
He,  therefore,  accepted  the  mission,  and  made  ready 
to  go  in  royal  state. 


260     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

He  selected  for  his  companions  a  number  of  the 
ablest  knights  of  the  court,  and  saw  that  they  were 
richly  arrayed  and  appointed,  with  the  hope  that 
such  a  noble  train  might  win  him  favor  at  the  Irish 
court.  With  this  array  he  departed,  and  set  sail 
for  the  coast  of  Ireland. 

But  when  they  had  reached  the  mid-channel  a 
tempest  arose  that  blew  the  fleet  back  towards  the 
coast  of  England,  and,  as  chance  had  it,  they  came 
ashore  near  Camelot.  Here  they  were  forced  to 
land,  for  their  ships  were  no  longer  seaworthy. 
Tristram,  therefore,  set  up  his  pavilion  upon  the 
coast  of  Camelot,  and  hung  his  shield  before  it. 

That  same  day  two  knights  of  Arthur's  court. 
Sir  Morganor  and  Sir  Hector  de  Maris,  chanced 
to  ride  that  way,  and,  seeing  the  shield,  they  touched 
it  with  their  spears,  bidding  the  knight  of  the  pavil- 
ion to  come  out  and  joust,  if  he  had  an  inclination 
to  do  so. 

"I  hold  myself  ready  alike  for  sport  or  battle," 
answered  Tristram.  "  If  you  tarry  a  little  while, 
you  will  find  me  ready  to  meet  you." 

This  said,  he  armed  himself,  and  mounting  his 
horse  rode  against  his  two  challengers  with  such 
fortune  that  he  first  smote  Sir  Hector  to  the  earth, 
and  then  Sir  Morganor,  felling  them  both  with  one 
spear.  Rising  painfully  to  their  feet,  the  discon- 
certed knights  asked  Tristram'  who  he  was  and  of 
what  country. 

"  My  noble  sirs,  T  am  a  knight  of  Cornwall,"  he 
answered.  "  You  have  been  in  the  habit  of  scorning 
the  warriors  of  my  country,  but  you  see  we  have 
some  good  blood  there." 


THE  WAGER  OF  BATTLE.  261 

.  "A  Cornish  knight!"  cried  Hector.  "That  I 
should  be  overcome  by  a  knight  from  that  land ! 
I  am  not  fit  to  wear  armor  more."  And  in  despite 
he  put  off  his  armor  and  left  the  place  on  foot,  too 
full  of  shame  to  ride. 

As  it  turned  out,  fortune  had  worked  more  favor- 
ably for  Tristram  than  he  supposed.  For  King 
Anguish  was  then  on  his  way  to  Camelot,  whither 
he  had  been  summoned  by  King  Arthur  as  his 
vassal,  for  a  purpose  which  he  was  not  told. 

It  happened  that  when  he  reached  Camelot 
neither  King  Arthur  nor  Lancelot  was  there  to 
give  judgment  on  the  charge  against  him,  but  the 
kings  of  Carados  and  of  Scotland  were  Jeft  as  judges. 
And  when  King  Anguish  demanded  why  he  had 
been  summoned,  Blamor  de  Ganis,  a  Knight  of 
the  Round  Table,  accused  him  of  treason,  declaring 
that  he  had  treacherously  slain  a  cousin  of  his  at 
his  court  in  Ireland. 

This  accusation  threw  King  Anguish  into  great 
trouble,  for  he  did  not  dream  that  he  had  been 
brought  for  such  a  purpose,  and  knew  well  that 
there  was  but  one  answer  to  make  to  such  a  charge. 
For  the  custom  in  those  days  was  that  anv  man 
who  was  accused  of  murder  or  treason  should  decide 
the  case  by  the  Wager  of  Battle,  fighting  his  accuser 
to  the  death,  or  finding  a  knight  who  would  take 
up  his  quarrel.  And  murders  of  all  kinds  in 
those  days  were  called  treason. 

King  Anguish  was  thrown  into  a  sorrowful  frame 
of  mind,  for  he  knew  that  Blamor  de  Ganis  was  a 
knight  of  prowess  beyond  his  own  strength,  nor  had 
he  a  suitable  champion  in  his  train.     He  therefore 


262     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

withheld  his  answer,  and  the  judges  gave  him  three- 
days  for  his  decision. 

All  this  was  told  to  Tristram  by  his  squire 
Gouvernail,  who  had  heard  it  from  people  of  the 
country. 

"  Truly/'  said  Tristram,  "  no  man  in  England 
could  bring  me  better  tidings,  for  the  king  of  Ire- 
land will  be  glad  of  my  aid,  since  no  knight  of  this 
country  not  of  Arthur's  court  will  dare  fight  with 
Blamor.  As  I  wish  to  win  the  good  will  of  King 
Anguish,  I  will  take  on  myself  his  battle.  So, 
Gouvernail,  go  to  the  king  for  me,  and  tell  him 
there  is  a  champion  ready  to  assume  his  cause." 

Gouvernail-  thereupon  went  to  Camelot,  and 
greeted  King  Anguish,  who  returned  his  greeting 
and  asked  his  errand. 

"  There  is  a  knight  near  at  hand  who  desires  to 
speak  with  you,"  was  the  reply.  "  He  bade  me  say 
that  he  was  ready  to  do  you  knightly  service." 

"  What  knight  may  he  be?  "  asked  the  king. 

"  Sir,  it  is  Tristram  of  Lyonesse.  For  the  grace 
you  showed  him  in  your  country  he  is  ready  to 
repay  you  here,  and  to  take  the  field  as  your 
champion." 

"  God  be  praised  for  this  welcome  news !  "  cried 
the  king.  "  Come,  good  fellow,  show  me  the  way 
to  Sir  Tristram.  Blamor  will  find  he  has  no  boy 
to  handle." 

He  mounted  a  hackney,  and  with  few  followers 
rode  under  Gouvernail's  oruidance  till  thev  came  to 
Tristram's  pavilion.  The  knight,  when  he  saw  his 
visitor,  ran  to  him  and  would  have  held  his  stirrup, 
but   this  the  king  would   not  permit.     He   leaped 


THE   WAGER  OF  BATTLE.  263 

lightly  from  his  horse  and  took  Tristram  warmly 
in  his  arms. 

"  My  gracious  lord/'  said  Tristram,  "  I  have  not 
forgot  the  goodness  which  you  formerly  showed 
me,  and  which  at  that  time  I  promised  to  requite 
by  knightly  service  if  it  should  ever  be  in  my 
power." 

"  1  have  great  need  of  you,  indeed,  gentle  sir," 
answered  the  king.  "  Never  before  was  I  in  such 
deep  necessity  of  knightly  aid." 

"  How  so,  my  noble  lord  ?  "  asked  Tristram. 

"  I  shall  tell  you.  I  am  held  answerable  for  the 
death  of  a  knight  who  was  akin  to  Lancelot,  and 
for  which  I  must  fight  his  relative,  Blamor  de  Ganis, 
or  find  a  knight  in  my  stead.  And  well  you  know 
the  knights  of  King  Ban's  blood  are  hard  men  to 
overcome  in  battle." 

"  That  may  be,"  said  Tristram,  "yet  I  dread  not 
to  meet  them.  For  the  honor  which  you  showed 
me  in  Ireland,  and  for  the  sake  of  your  gracious 
daughter  La  Belle  Isolde,  I  will  take  the  battle 
on  two  conditions:  first,  that  you  swear  that  you 
.are  in  the  right,  and  had  no  hand  in  the  knight's 
death;  second,  that  if  I  win  in  this  fight  you  grant 
me  the  reward  I  may  ask,  if  you  deem  it  reason- 
able." 

"  Truly,  I  am  innocent,  and  you  shall  have  what- 
ever you  ask,"  said  the  king. 

"  Then  1  accept  the  combat,"  said  Tristram. 
"  You  mav  return  to  Camelot  and  make  answer  that 
your  champion  is  ready,  for  I  shall  die  in  your 
quarrel  rather  than  be  recreant.  Blamor  is  said 
to  be  a  hardy  knight,  but  I  would  meet  him  were 


264     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

he  the  best  warrior  that  now  bears  shield  and 
spear/' 

King  Anguish  then  departed  and  told  the  judges 
that  he  had  his  champion  ready,  and  was  prepared 
for  the  wager  of  battle  at  any  time  that  pleased 
them.  In  consequence,  Blamor  and  Tristram  were 
sent  for  to  hear  the  charge.  But  when  the  knights 
of  the  court  learned  that  the  champion  was  he  who 
had  vanquished  Marhaus  and  Palamides,  there  was 
much  debate  and  shaking  of  the  head,  and  many 
who  had  felt  sure  of  the  issue  now  grew  full  of 
doubt,  the  more  so  when  they  learned  the  story 
of  Hector  de  Maris  and  his  companion. 

But  the  combatants  took  their  charge  in  all  due 
dignity,  and  then  withdrew  to  make  ready  for  the 
battle.  Blamor  was  attended  by  his  brother  Sir 
Bleoberis,  who  said  to  him,  feelingly, — 

"  Remember,  dear  brother,  of  what  kin  we  are, 
being  cousins  to  I^ancelot  du  Lake,  and  that  there 
has  never  been  a  man  of  our  blood  but  would  rather 
die  than  be  shamed  in  battle." 

"  Have  no  doubt  of  me,"  answered  Blamor.  "  I 
know  well  this  knight's  record;  but  if  he  should 
strike  me  down  through  his  great  might,  he  shall 
slay  me  before  I  will  yield  as  recreant." 

"  You  will  find  him  the  strongest  knight  you 
have  ever  had  to  do  with.  I  know  that  well,  for 
I  had  once  a  bout  with  him  at  Kins^  Mark's  court. 
So  God  speed  you  !  " 

"In  God  and  my  cause  I  trust,"  answered 
Blamor. 

Then  he  took  his  horse  and  rode  to  one  end  of 
the  lists,  and  Tristram  to  the  other,  where,  putting 


THE  WAGER  OF  BATTLE.  265 

their  spears  in  rest,  they  spurred  their  gallant  steeds 
and  rushed  together  with  the  speed  of  lightning. 
The  result  was  that  Blamor  and  his  horse  together 
were  hurled  to  the  earth,  while  Tristram  kept  his 
seat.  Then  Blamor  drew  his  sword  and  threw  his 
shield  before  him,  bidding  Tristram  to  alight. 

"  Though  a  horse  has  failed  me,"  he  said,  "  I 
triist  that  the  earth  will  stand  me  in  good  stead." 

Without  hesitation  Tristram  consented,  springing 
to  the  ground,  sword  in  hand,  and  the  combatants 
broke  at  once  into  fierce  battle,  fighting  like  mad- 
men, till  all  who  saw  them  marvelled  at  their  cour- 
age and  strength.  Never  had  knights  been  seen 
to  fight  more  fiercely,  for  Blamor  was  so  furious 
and  incessant  in  his  attacks,  and  Tristram  so  active 
in  his  defence,  that  it  was  a  wonder  they  had  breath 
to  stand.  But  at  last  Tristram  smote  his  antagonist 
such  a  blow  on  the  helm  that  he  fell  upon  his  side, 
while  his  victor  stood  looking  grimly  down  upon 
him. 

When  Blamor  could  gain  breath  to  speak,  he 
said, — ■ 

"  Sir  Tristram  de  Lyonesse,  I  require  thee,  as 
thou  art  a  true  knight,  to  slay  jne,  for  I  would 
not  live  in  shame,  though  I  might  be  lord  of  the 
earth.  You  must  slay  me,  indeed,  if  you  would 
win  the  field,  for  I  shall  never  speak  the  hateful 
word  of  surrender." 

When  Tristram  heard  this  knightly  defiance  he 
knew  not  what  to  do.  The  thought  of  slaying 
one  of  Lancelot's  blood  hurt  him  sorely,  but  his 
duty  as  a  champion  required  him  to  force  his 
antagonist  to  yield,  or  else  to  slay  him.     In  deep 


266     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

/ 

distress  of  mind  he  went  to  the  kingly  judges  and 
kneeled  before  them,  beseeching  them  for  the  sake 
of  King  Arthur  and  Ijancelot,  and  for  their  own 
credit,  to  take  this  matter  out  of  his  hands. 

"  It  were  a  pity  and  shame  that  the  noble  knight 
who  lies  yonder  should  be  slain,"  he  said,  "  yet  he 
refuses  to  yield.  As  for  the  king  I  fight  for,  I  shall 
require  him,  as  I  am  his  true  knight  and  champion, 
to  have  mercy  on  the  vanquished." 

"  That  yield  I  freely,"  said  King  Anguish. 
"  And  I  heartily  pray  the  judges  to  deal  with  him 
mercifully." 

Then  the  judges  called  Bleoberis  to  them  and 
asked  his  advice. 

"My  lords,"  he  replied,  "my  brother  is  beaten, 
I  acknowledge,  yet,  though  Sir  Tristram  has  van- 
quished his  body,  he  has  not  conquered  his  heart, 
and  I  thank  God  he  is  not  shamed  bv  his  defeat. 
And  rather  than  he  should  be  shamed  I  require 
you  to  bid  Tristram  to  slay  him." 

"That  shall  not  be,"  replied  the  judges.  "  Both 
his  adversaries,  the  king  and  his  champion,  have 
pity  on  him,  and  you  should  have  no  less." 

"  I  leave  his  fate  to  you,"  said  Bleoberis.  "  Do 
what  seems  to  you  well." 

Then,  after  further  consultation,  the  judges  gave 
their  verdict  that  the  vanquished  knight  should  live, 
and  by  their  advice  Tristram  and  Bleoberis  took 
him  up  and  brought  him  to  King  Anguish,  who 
forgave  and  made  friends  with  him.  Then  Blamor 
and  Tristram  kissed  each  other  and  the  two  brothers 
took  oath  that  neither  of  them  would  ever  fight  with 
their  noble   antagonist,   who   took  the  same  oath. 


THE  DRAUGHT  OF  LOVE.  267 

And  from  the  day  of  that  battle  there  was  peace 
and  love  between  Tristram  and  all  the  kindred  of 
Lancelot  forever. 

The  happy  close  of  this  contest  made  great  re- 
joicing in  Arthur's  court.  King  Anguish  and  his 
champion  being  treated  with  all  the  honor  that  could 
be  laid  upon  them,  and  for  many  days  thereafter 
feasting  and  merry-making  prevailed.  In  the  end 
the  king  and  his  champion  sailed  for  Ireland  with 
great  state  and  ceremony,  w^hile  many  noble  knights 
attended  to  bid  them  farewell. 

When  they  reached  Ireland,  King  Anguish  spread 
far  and  wide  the  story  of  what  Tristram  had  done 
for  him,  and  he  was  everywhere  greeted  with  honor 
and  delight.  Even  the  queen  forgot  her  anger,  and 
did  all  that  lay  in  her  power  to  give  her  lord's 
champion  a  glad  w^elcome  to  the  court. 

As  for  La  Belle  Isolde,  she  met  Tristram  with  the 
greatest  joy  and  gladness.  Absence  had  dimmed 
the  love  in  both  their  hearts,  and  it  no  longer 
burned  as  of  yore,  yet  only  time  and  opportunity 
were  needed  to  make  it  as  warm  as  ever. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  DRAUGHT   OF  LOVE. 

At  length  there  came  a  day,  after  Tristram  had 
dwelt  long  at  King  Anguish's  court,  that  the  king 
asked  him   why  he  had  not  demanded   his  boon. 


268     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

since  the  royal  word  had  been  passed  that  whatever 
he  asked  should  be  his  without  fail. 

"  I  asked  you  not/'  said  Tristram,  "  since  it  is  a 
boon  that  will  give  me  no  pleasure,  but  so  much 
pain  that  with  every  day  that  passes  I  grow  less 
inclined  to  ask  it." 

"  Then  why  ask  it  at  all  ?  " 

"That  I  must,  for  I  have  passed  my  word  of 
honor,  and  the  word  of  a  knight  is  his  best  posses- 
sion. What  I  am  forced  to  demand,  then,  is  that 
you  will  give  me  the  hand  of  La  Belle  Isolde, — 
not  for  myself,  and  that  is  what  makes  my  heart  so 
sore,  but  for  my  uncle,  King  Mark,  who  desires 
to  wed  her,  and  for  whom  I  have  promised  to 
demand  her." 

"  Alas ! ''  cried  the  king,  "  that  you  should  ask 
me  so  despiteful  a  boon.  I  had  rather  than  all 
King  Mark's  dominions  that  you  should  wed  her 
yourself." 

"  I  never  saw  woman  whom  I  would  rather  wed," 
he  replied.  "  But  if  I  should  do  so  I  would  be  the 
shame  of  the  world  forever,  as  a  false  knight, 
recreant  to  his  promise.  Therefore,  I  must  stand 
by  my  word,  and  hold  you  to  your  boon,  that  you 
will  give  me  La  Belle  Isolde  to  go  with  me  to 
Cornwall,  there  to  be  wedded  to  King  Mark,  my 
uncle." 

"  As  for  that,  I  cannot  deny  you.  She  shall  go 
with  you,  but  as  to  what  may  happen  thereafter, 
I  leave  that  for  you  to  decide.  If  you  choose  to 
wed  her  yourself,  that  will  give  me  the  greatest 
joy.  But  if  you  determine  to  give  her  to  King 
Mark,  the  right  rests  with  you.  I  have  passed 
my  word,  though  I  wish  now  that  I  had  not. 


?> 


THE  DRAUGHT  OF  LOVE.  269 

Then  Isolde  was  told  of  what  had  passed,  and 
bade  to  make  ready  to  go  with  Tristram,  a  lady 
named  Bragwaine  going  with  her  as  chief  gentle- 
woman, while  many  others  were  selected  as  her 
attendants.  When  the  preparations  were  fully 
made,  the  queen,  Isolde's  mother,  gave  to  Dame 
Bragwaine  and  Gouvernail  a  golden  flask  contain- 
ing a  drink,  and  charged  them  that  on  the  day  of 
Isolde's  wedding  they  should  give  King  Mark  that 
drink,  bidding  him  to  quaff  it  to  the  health  of  La 
Belle  Isolde,  and  her  to  quaff  his  health  in  return. 

"  It  is  a  love  draught,''  continued  the  queen, 
"  and  if  they  shall  drink  it  I  undertake  to  say  that 
each  shall  love  the  other  for  all  the  days  of  their 
life." 

Not  many  days  passed  before  Tristram  took  to 
the  sea,  with  the  fair  maiden  who  had  been  com- 
mitted to  his  charge,  and  they  sailed  away  on  a 
mission  that  had  for  them  both  far  more  of  sadness 
than  of  joy,  for  their  love  grew  as  the  miles  plassed. 

One  day,  as  they  sat  together  in  the  cabin,  it 
happened  that  they  became  thirsty,  and  by  chance 
they  saw  on  a  shelf  near  them  a  little  golden  flask, 
filled  with  what  by  the  color  seemed  to  be  a  noble 
wine.  Tristram  took  it  down  and  said,  with  a 
laugh, — 

"  Madam  Isolde,  here  is  the  best  drink  that  ever 
you  drank,  a  precious  draught  which  Dame  Brag- 
waine, your  maiden,  and  Gouvernail,  my  servant, 
are  keeping  for  themselves.  Let  us  drink  from 
their  private  store." 

Then  with  laughter  and  merriment  they  drank 
freely  from  the  flask,  and  both  thought  that  they 


270     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONES8E  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

had  never  tasted  draught  so  sweet  and  delicious 
in  their  lives  before.  But  when  the  magic  wine 
got  into  their  blood,  they  looked  upon  each  other 
with  new  eyes,  for  their  hearts  were  suddenly 
filled  with  such  passionate  love  as  they  had  not 
dreamed  that  heart  could  feel.  Tristram  thought 
that  never  had  mortal  eyes  gazed  upon  a  maiden 
of  such  heavenly  charms,  and  Isolde  that  there 
was  never  man  born  so  grand  and  graceful  as  the 
knight  of  her  love. 

Then  all  at  once  she  fell  into  bitter  weeping  as 
the  thought  of  her  destiny  came  upon  her,  and 
Tristram  took  her  in  his  arms  and  kissed  her  sweet 
lips  again  and  again,  speaking  words  of  love  that 
brought  some  comfort  to  her  love-sick  heaft.  And 
thus  it  was  between  them  day  by  day  to  the  end  of 
their  voyage,  for  a  love  had  grown  between  them 
of  such  fervent  depth  that  it  could  never  leave 
them  while  blood  flowed  in  their  veins. 

Swch  magic  power  had  the  draught  which  the 
queen  had  prepared  for  King  Mark,  and  whicb 
the  unthinking  lovers  drank  in  fate's  strange  error. 
It  was  the  bitter-sweet  of  love ;  for  it  was  destined 
to  bring  them  the  deepest  joy  and  sorrow  in  the 
years  to  come. 

Manv  days  passed  before  the  lovers  reached  Corn- 
wall,  and  strange  adventures  met  them  by  the  way, 
of  which  we  have  but  little  space  to  speak.  For 
chance  brought  them  to  land  near  a  castle  named 
Pleure,  or  the  weeping  castle.  It  was  the  custom 
of  the  lord  of  that  castle,  when  any  knight  passed 
by  with  a  lady,  to  take  them  prisoners.  Then,  w^hen 
the  knight's  lady  was  compared  with  the  lady  of  the 


THE  DRAUGHT  OF  LOVE.  271 

castle,  whichever  was  the  least  lovely  of  the  two 
was  put  to  death,  and  the  knight  was  made  to  fight 
with  the  lord  of  the  castle  for  the  other,  and  was 
put  to  death  if  vanquished.  Through  this  cruel 
custom  many  a  noble  knight  and  fair  lady  had  been 
slain,  for  the  castle  lord  was  of  great  prowess  and 
his  lady  of  striking  beauty. 

It  chanced  that  Tristram  and  Isolde  demanded 
shelter  at  this  castle,  and  that  they  were  made 
prisoners  under  its  cruel  custom.  At  this  outrage 
Tristram  grew  bitterly  indignant,  and  demanded 
passionately  what  it  meant,  as  honor  demanded  that 
those  who  sought  harbor  should  be  received  hos- 
pitably as  guests,  and  not  despitefully  as  prisoners. 
In  answer  he  was  told  the  custom  of  the  castle,  and 
that  he  must  fight  for  his  lady  and  his  liberty. 
It  is  a  foul  and  shameful  custom,"  he  replied. 

I  do  not  fear  that  your  lord's  lady  will  surpass 
mine  in  beauty,  nor  that  I  cannot  hold  my  own 
in  the  field,  but  I  like  to  have  a  voice  in  my  own 
doings.  Tell  him,  however,  if  he  is  so  hot  for 
battle,  that  I  shall  be  ready  for  the  test  to-morrow 
morning,  and  may  heaven  be  on  the  side  of  truth 
and  justice." 

When  morning  came  the  test  of  beauty  was  made, 
and  the  loveliness  of  Isolde  shone  so  far  beyond  that 
of  the  castle  lady  that  Breunor,  the  lord,  was  forced 
to  admit  it.  And  now  Tristram  grew  stern  and 
pitiless,  for  he  said  that  this  lady  had  consented 
to  the  death  of  many  innocent  rivals,  and  richly 
deserved  death  as  a  punishment  for  the  ruthless 
deeds  done  in  her  behalf,  and  to  gratify  her  cruel 
vanity.  Thereupon  her  head  was  struck  oif  without 
mercy. 


272     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONE88E  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

Full  of  anger  at  this,  Breunor  attacked  Tristram 
with  all  his  strength  and  fury,  and  a  long  and  fiery 
combat  took  place,  yet  in  the  end  he  fell  dead 
beneath  the  sword  of  the  knight  of  Cornwall. 

But,  as  it  happened,  the  castle  lord  had  a  valiant 
son,  named  Sir  Galahad  the  high  prince,  a  knight 
who  in  after  years  was  to  do  deeds  of  great  emprise. 
Word  was  brought  to  him  of  the  death  of  his  father 
and  mother,  and  he  rode  in  all  haste  to  the  castle, 
having  with  him  that  renowned  warrior  known  as 
the  king  with  the  hundred  knights. 

Reaching  the  castle,  Galahad  fiercely  challenged 
Tristram  to  battle,  and  a  mighty  combat  ensued. 
But  at  the  last  Galahad  was  forced  to  giVe  way 
before  the  deadly  strokes  of  his  antagonist,  whose 
strength  seemed  to  grow  with  his  labor. 

When  the  king  with  the  hundred  knights  saw 
this,  he  rushed  upon  Tristram  with  many  of  his 
followers,  attacking  him  in  such  force  as  no  single 
knight  could  hope  to.  endure. 

^^This  is  no  knightly  deed,"  cried  Tristram  to 
Galahad.  "  I  deemed  you  a  noble  knight,  but  it 
is  a  shameful  act  to  let  all  your  men  set  on  me  at 
once.'* 

"  However  that  be,"  said  Galahad,  "  you  have 
done  me  a  great  wrong,  and  must  yield  or  die." 

"Then  I  must  yield,  since  you  treat  me  so 
unfairiy.  I  accepted  your  challenge,  not  that  of  all 
your  followers.  To  yield  thus  puts  me  to  no  dis- 
honor." 

And  he  took  his  sword  by  the  point  and  put  the 
pommel  in  the  hand  of  his  opponent.  But  despite 
this  action  the  king  and  his  kniehts  came  on,  and 
made  a  second  attack  on  the  unarmed  warrior. 


THE  DRAUGHT  OF  LOVE.  273 


"  Let  him  be,"  cried  Sir  Galahad.  "  I  have  given 
him  his  life,  and  no  man  shall  harm  him." 

"  Shame  is  it  in  you  to  say  so !  "  cried  the  king. 
"  Has  he  not  slain  your  father  and  mother  ?  " 

"For  that  I  cannot  blame  him  greatly.  My 
father  held  him  in  prison,  and  forced  him  to  fight 
to  the  death.  The  custom  was  a  wicked  and  cruel 
one,  and  could  have  but  one  end.  Long  ago,  it 
drove  me  from  my  father's  castle,  for  I  could  not 
favor  it  by  any  presence." 

"  It  was  a  sinful  custom,  truly,"  said  the  king. 

"  So  I  deem  it,  and  it  would  be  a  pity  that  this 
brave  knight  should  die  in  such  a  cause,  for  I  know 
no  one  save  Lancelot  du  Lake  who  is  his  equal. 
Now,  fair  knight,  will  you  tell  me  your  name  ?  " 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  of  Lyonesse,  and  I  am 
on  my  way  to  the  court  of  King  Mark  of  Cornwall, 
taking  to  him  La  Belle  Isolde,  the  daughter  of 
King  Anguish  of  Ireland,  whom  he  desires  to  wed." 

"  Then  you  are  welcome  to  these  marches,  and 
all  that  I  demand  of  you  is  that  you  promise  to  go 
to  Lancelot  du  Lake,  and  become  his  fellow.  I  shall 
promise  that  no  such  custom  shall  ever  be  used  in 
this  castle  again." 

"  You  will  do  well,"  said  Tristram.  "  I  would 
have  you  know  that  when  I  began  to  fight  with 
you  I  fancied  you  were  Lancelot.  And  I  promis'^, 
as  soon  as  I  may,  to  seek  him,  for  of  all  the  knights 
in  the  world  I  most  desire  his  fellowship." 

Soon  afterwards  Tristram  and  his  fair  companion 
resumed  their  journey,  and  in  due  time  reached 
Cornwall.  But  as  they  came  near  Tintagil  their 
hearts  were  ready  to  break,  for  that  magic  draught 

18 


274     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONE8SE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

was  still  in  their  veins,  and  they  loved  each  other 
with  a  love  that  was  past  all  telling. 

Thoughts  came  into  Tristram's  heart  to  marry  the 
maiden  in  despite  of  custom  and  his  plighted  word, 
and  gladly  would  she  have  consented  thereto.  But 
strong  as  was  his  love,  his  honor  was  stronger,  and 
Isolde,  deeply  as  she  grieved,  could  not  ask  him  to 
break  his  word.  And  thus  for  many  long  miles 
they  journeyed  onward  side  by  side  in  silence,  their 
eyes  alone  speaking,  but  they  telling  a  story  of  love 
and  grief  to  which  they  dared  not  give  words,  lest 
their  hearts'  desire  should  burst  all  boundaries 
of  faith  and  honor,  and  men's  condemnation  come 
to  them  both. 

So  they  came  with  drooping  hearts  to  the  court 
of  King  Mark,  where  the  king  and  his  barons 
received  them  with  state  and  ceremony.  Quickly 
thereafter  the  wedding  took  place,  for  the  king 
looked  with  eyes  of  warm  approval  upon  the  beau- 
tiful maiden,  and  prepared  richly  and  nobly  for  the 
ceremony,  at  which  many  noble  knights  and  lords 
were  present,  but  from  which  Tristram  withdrew 
in  the  deepest  anguish,  as  he  could  not  endure  the 
sight.  And  so  his  knightly  Avord  was  kept,  though 
to  keep  it  almost  broke  his  heart. 


THE   PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  275 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE    PERILS    OF    TRUE    LOVE. 

The  marriage  of  King  Mark  with  La  Belle  Isolde 
was  celebrated  with  rich  feasts  and  royal  tourna- 
ments, and  for  many  days  pleasure  ruled  supreme 
at  Tintagil  Castle,  whither  noble  guests  came  and 
went.  Among  those  who  came  was  Palamides  the 
Saracen,  drawn  thither  by  his  love  of  Isolde,  which 
his  overthrow  by  Tristram  had  not  banished  from 
his  heart. 

Strange  events  soon  followed.  Two  ladies  of 
Isolde's  train,  who  envied  and  hated  Dame  Brag- 
waine,  laid  a  plot  for  her  destruction.  She  was 
sent  into  the  forest  to  obtain  herbs,  and  there  was 
met  by  men  sent  by  her  enemies,  who  bou^jd  her 
hand  and  foot  to  a  tree,  where  she  remained  for 
three  days.  By  good  fortune,  at  the  end  of  that 
time,  she  was  found  by  Palamides,  who  saved  her 
from  death,  and  took  her  to  a  nunnerv  that  she 
might  recover  from  her  pain  and  exhaustion. 

The  disappearance  of  Dame  Bragwaine  troubled 
the  queen  greatly,  for  she  loved  her  most  of  all 
women,  and  as  the  days  went  by  and  she  returned 
not,  the  grief  of  Isolde  grew  deep.  She  wandered 
into  the  forest,  which  had  been  searched  in  vain  for 
the  lost  lady,  and,  plunged  in  sad  thought,  seated 
herself  by  a  woodland  spring,  where  she  moaned 
bitterly  for  her  favorite. 

As  she  sat  there  Palamides  appeared,  and,  after 
listening  awhile  to  her  sad  complaining,  said, — 


276     TRISTRAM  OP  LYONESSE  AND  PAIR  ISOLDE, 

"  Queen  Isolde,  I  know  well  the  cause  of  your 
grief,  and  if  you  will  grant  the  boon  I  shall  ask, 
I  promise  to  bring  you  Dame  Bragwaine,  safe  and 
sound.'^ 

The  queen  was  so  glad  to  hear  this,  that  without 
thought  she  agreed  to  grant  his  wish,  thinking  more 
of  the  lost  lady  than  of  what  he  might  demand. 

"  I  trust  to  your  promise,' '  said  Palamides.  *^  Re- 
main here  half  an  hour  and  you  shall  see  her." 

"  I  shall  remain,"  said  the  queen. 

Palamides  then  rode  away,  and  within  the  time 
mentioned  returned  with  the  maiden,  whom  Isolde 
clasped  to  her  heart  with  happy  tears. 

"Now,  madam,  I  have  kept  my  word,"  said 
Palamides ;   "  you  must  keep  yours." 

"  I  promised  you  hastily,"  answered  the  queen ; 
"  and  I  warn  you  now  that  I  will  grant  you  nothing 
evil;  ^so  beware  of  your  asking." 

"My  boon  w^ill  keep  till  I  meet  you  before  the 
king,"  said  Palamides.  "  What  it  is  I  shall  not 
tell  vou  now." 

Then  the  queen  rode  home  with  her  maiden,  and 
Palamides  followed  close  after,  entering  the  court 
while  Isolde  was  telling  the  king  of  what  had 
happened. 

"  Sir  king,"  said  the  knight,  "  your  lady  has  told 
you  of  the  boon  she  proffered  me.  The  honor  of 
knighthood  requires  that  you  shall  make  her  woM 
good." 

"  Why  made  you  this  promise,  my  lady  ?  "  asked 
the  king. 

"  I  did  so  for  grief  at  the  loss  of  Dame  Brag- 
waine, and  for  joy  to  recover  her." 


THE   PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  277 

"  Then  what  you  have  hastily  proffered  you  must 
truly  perform.  The  word  of  king  and  queen  is  not 
to  be  lightly  spoken  or  lightly  broken/' 

"  What  I  demand  is  this/'  said  Palamides,  "  that 
you  deliver  to  me  your  queen,  to  lead  her  where 
I  wish  and  govern  her  as  I  will." 

At  this  bold  request  the  king  frowned  deeply, 
and  anger  leaped  to  his  lips.  But  his  word  had 
been  passed,  and  the  thought  came  to  him  that  he 
could  trust  to  Tristram  quickly  to  rescue  the  queen, 
and  punish  this  bold  adventurer. 

"  Take  her  if  you  will,"  he  cried.  "  But  I  tell 
you  this,  you  will  not  keep  her  long,  and  that  you 
are  asking  a  dangerous  gift." 

"  As  for  that,  I  shall  dare  the  risk," 

Then  he  took  Isolde  by  the  hand,  and  led  her 
from  the  court,  and  from  the  presence  of  the  king 
and  his  barons,  not  one  of  whom  moved,  though 
the  queen  looked  round  with  suppliant  eyes.  Lead- 
ing her  to  his  war-horse,  he  set  her  behind  him  on 
the  saddle,  and  rode  proudly  away. 

No  sooner  had  they  gone  than  the  king  sent  for 
Tristram,  but  by  despite  he  was  nowhere  to  be 
found,  for  he  was  in  the  forest  hunting,  as  was 
always  his  custom  when  not  engaged  in  feats  of 
arms. 

"  What  shall  be  done  ?  "  cried  the  king.  '*  Can 
no  one  find  Tristram?  My  honor  will  be  shamed 
if  the  Saracen  be  not  met  and  overcome." 

"  I  shall  follow  him,  and  seek  to  rescue  thi» 
queen,"  said  a  knight  named  Lambegus,  one  of 
Tristram's  followers. 

"  I  thank  you,  Sir  Lambegus.  If  I  live,  I  will 
remember  the  service." 


278     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

So  Lambegus  got  to  horse  and  followed  Pala- 
mides  hotly,  but  to  his  own  sorrow,  as  it  proved, 
for  he  was  no  match  for  the  Saracen,  who  soon 
laid  him  upon  the  earth  wounded  nearly  to  death. 

But  while  the  battle  went  on,  Isolde,  who  had 
been  set  upon  the  earth  pending  the  combat,  ran 
into  the  forest,  and  continued  to  flv  till  she  came 
to  a  deep  spring,  where  in  her  grief  she  sought 
to  drown  herself.  But  good  fortune  brought  thither 
a  knight  named  Sir  Adtherp,  who  had  a  castle 
near  by.  Seeing  the  despair  of  the  queen,  he  led 
her  to  his  castle,  and  then,  learning  her  story,  took 
upon  himself  her  battle,  and  rode  forth  to  meet  the 
Saracen. 

But  he,  too,  fared  badly,  for  Palamides  wounded 
him  severely,  and  made  him  tell  what  he  had  done 
with  the  queen,  and  where  his  castle  might  be  found. 

Palamides,  leaving  him  blading  on  the  ground, 
rode  in  all  haste  to  the  castle.  But  as  he 
approached,  Isolde  saw  him  from  a  window,  and 
gave  orders  that  the  gate  should  be  shut  and  the 
drawbridge  raised.  When  Palamides  came  up  and 
saw  that  the  castle  was  closed  against  him,  and 
entrance  denied,  he  took  the  saddle  and  bridle 
from  his  horse  and  put  him  to  pasture,  while  he 
seated  himself  before  the  gate  like  a  man  who  cared 
not  what  became  of  him. 

Meanwhile,  Tristram  had  returned  from  the  hunt, 
and  when  he  learned  what  had  happened,  he  was 
half  beside  himself  with  anger. 

"  Lambegus  is  no  match  for  the  Saracen/'  he 
said.  "  Would  I  had  been  here  in  his  stead.  The 
unchristianed  villain  shall  answer  for  this  outrage 
if  he  can  be  found.^' 


THE   PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  279 

Then  he  armed  himself  in  all  haste,  and  rode 
into  the  forest.  Not  far  had  he  gone  when  he  found 
Lambegus,  sorely  wounded,  and  had  him  borne  to 
a  place  of  shelter.  Somewhat  farther  on  he  found 
Adtherp,  also  hurt  and  bleeding,  and  from  him 
he  learned  what  had  taken  place. 

"  Where  is  my  lady  now  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Safe  in  my  castle/'  said  the  knight.  "  And 
there  she  can  hold  herself  secure  against  the 
Saracen." 

"  Then  I  owe  you  much,"  said  Tristram.  "  Trust 
me  to  see  that  some  of  your  men  be  sent  to  your 
aid." 

He  continued  his  journey  till  he  came  to  the 
castle,  and  here  he  saw  Palamides  sitting  by  the 
gate  fast  asleep,  with  his  horse  grazing  beside  him. 

"  The  misbegotten  rogue  takes  life  easy,"  said- 
Tristram.  "  Go  rouse  him,  Gouvernail.  Bid  him 
make  ready  to'  answer  for  his  outrage." 

But  he  was  in  such  deep  slumber  that  Gouvernail 
called  to  him  in  vain.  He  returned  and  told  Tris- 
tram that  the  knight  was  either  asleep  or  mad. 

"  Go  again  and  tell  him  that  I,  his  mortal  foe, 
am  here." 

Gouvernail  now  prodded  him  with  the  butt  of 
his  spear,  and  cried, — 

"  Arise,  Sir  Palamides,  and  make  ready,  for 
yonder  is  Sir  Tristram,  and  he  sends  you  word  that 
he  is  your  mortal  foe." 

Then  Palamides  rose  without  a  word  of  answer, 
and  saddled  and  bridled  his  horse,  upon  which  he 
sprang,  putting  his  spear  in  rest.  But  he  remained 
not  long  in  his  saddle,  for  when  they  met  in  mid 


280    TRISTRAM  OF  LYON  ESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

career,  Tristram  smote  him  so  hard  a  blow  as  to 
thrust  him  over  his  horse's  tail  to  the  gromid. 

Then  they  drew  their  swords  and  fought  with  all 
their  strength,  for  the  lady  whom  they  both  loved 
looked  upon  them  from  the  walls,  and  well-nigh 
swooned  for  grief  and  distress  on  seeing  how  sorely 
each  was  hurt. 

"  Alas !  '^  she  cried,  "  one  of  them  I  love,  and  the 
other  loves  me.  It  would  be  a  great  pity  to  see  Sir 
Palamides  slain,  much  as  he  has  troubled  me,  and 
slain  he  will  be  if  this  fight  goes  on.^^ 

Then,  moved  by  her  tender  heart,  she  went  down 
and  besought  Tristram  to  fight  no  more. 

"  What  mean  you  ?  '^  he  asked.  "  Would  you 
have  me  shamed  ?  " 

"  I  desire  not  your  dishonor ;  but  for  my  sake  I 
would  have  you  spare  this  unhappy  knight,  whose 
love  for  me  has  made  him  mad.'' 

"As  you  wish,"  he  replied.  "The  fight  shall 
end,  since  you  desire  it." 

"  As  for  you,  Sir  Palamides,"  she  said,  "  I  com- 
mand that  you  shall  go  out  of  this  country  while 
I  am  in  it." 

"  If  it  must  be,  it  must,"  he  answered,  in  bitter 
anguish ;  "  but  it  is  sorely  against  my  will,  for  not 
to  see  you  is  not  to  live." 

"  Take  your  way  to  the  court  of  King  Arthur," 
she  said,  "  and  there  recommend  me  to  Queen  Guen- 
ever.  Tell  her  that  Isolde  says  that  in  all  the 
land  there  are  but  four  lovers,  and  that  these  are 
Lancelot  du  Lake  and  Queen  Guenever,  and  Tris- 
tram de  Lyonesse  and  Queen  Isolde." 

This  message  filled  Palamides  with  the  greatest 


THE  PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  281 

heaviness  of  heart,  and  mounting  his  steed  he  rode 
away  moaning  bitterly.  But  Isolde  was  full  of 
gladness  in  being  well  rid  of  her  troublesome  lover, 
and  Tristram  in  having  rescued  her  from  his  rival. 
So  he  brought  her  back  to  King  Mark,  and  there  was 
great  joy  over  her  home-coming,  while  the  king  and 
all  the  court  showered  honors  on  the  successful 
champion.  Sir  Lambegus  was  brought  back  to  the 
court  and  put  under  the  care  of  skilful  leeches,  and 
for  a  long  time  joy  and  good-will  reigned. 

But  Tristram  had  in  King  Mark's  court  a  bitter 
foe,  who  sought  to  work  him  injury,  though  he  was 
his  near  cousin.  This  traitor,  Sir  Andred  by  name, 
knew  well  of  the  love  between  Tristram  and  Isolde, 
and  that  they  had  secret  meetings  and  tender  con- 
versations, so  he  lay  in  wait  to  spy  upon  them  and 
slander  them  before  the  court. 

A  day  came  at  length  when  Andred  observed  Tris- 
tram in  secret  parley  with  Isolde  at  a  window,  and 
he  hastened  to  the  king  and  poisoned  his  mind  with 
a  false  report  of  what  he  had  seen.  King  Mark,  on 
hearing  this,  burst  into  a  fury  of  passion,  and  seiz- 
ing a  sword,  ran  to  where  Tristram  stood.  Here 
he  violently  berated  him  as  a  traitor,  and  struck 
at  him  a  furious  blow. 

But  Tristram  took  the  sword-point  under  his  arm, 
and  ran  in  on  the  king,  wresting  the  weapon  from 
his  hand. 

"  Where  are  my  knights  and  men  ?''  cried  the 
enraged  king.     "  I  charge  you  to  kill  this  traitor !  '^ 

But  of  those  present  not  a  man  would  move. 
When  Tristram  saw  this,  he  shook  the  sword  threat- 
ingly  against  the  king,  and  took  a  step  forward  as 


282     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

if  he  would  have  slain  him.  At  this  movement 
King  Mark  fled,  while  Tristram  followed,  and 
struck  him  so  strong  a  blow  with  the  flat  of  the 
sword  9n  his  neck  that  he  was  flung  prostrate  on 
his  nose.  Then  Tristram  hastened  to  his  room  and 
armed  himself,  after  which  he  took  his  horse  and  his 
squire  and  rode  into  the  forest. 

Here  the  valorous  champion  killed  some  of  the 
knights  whom  the  king  had  sent  against  him  and 
put  to  flight  thirty  more,  so  that  King  Mark  in  fear 
and  fury  called  a  council  of  his  lords,  and  asked 
what  was  to  be  done  with  his  rebellious  subject. 

"  Our  counsel  is,"  said  the  barons,  "  that  you 
send  for  Sir  Tristram  and  make  friends  with  him, 
for  you  well  know  that  if  you  push  him  hard  many 
of  your  men  will  join  him.  He  is  peerless  and 
matchless  among  Christian  knights  except  Sir  Lan- 
celot, and  if  you  drive  him  to  seek  King  Arthur's 
court  he  will  find  such  friends  there  that  he  may 
defy  your  power.  Therefore  we  counsel  you  to  beg 
him  to  return  to  the  court,  under  assurance  of 
safety." 

"  You  may  send  for  him,  then,"  said  the  king, 
though  his  heart  burned  with  secret  fury.  The 
barons  now  sent  for  Tristram  under  a  safe-conduct, 
and  he  returned  to  the  court,  where  he  was  wel- 
comed by  the  king,  and  all  that  had  passed  seemed 
to  be  forgotten. 

Shortly  after  this  the  king  and  queen  went  hunt- 
ing, accompanied  by  Tristram  and  many  knights 
and  gentlemen  of  the  court.  Entering  the  forest, 
they  set  up  their  pavilions  and  tents  beside  a  river, 
where   they   hunted   and   jousted   daily,    for   King 


THE  PERILS  OP  TRUE  LOVE.  283 

Mark  had  with  him  thirty  knights  who  stood  ready 
to  meet  all  comers. 

Fortune  brought  thither  two  knights-errant,  one 
being  Lamorak  de  Galis,  who  of  all  knights  was 
counted  next  to  Lancelot  and  Tristram.  The  other 
was  Sir  Driant,  both  being  Knights  of  the  Round 
Table. 

Driant  jousted  first  with  the  Cornish  knights, 
and,  after  unhorsing  some  of  them,  got  a  stunning 
fall.  Then  Lamorak  offered  to  meet  them,  and 
of  the  thirty  knights  not  one  kept  his  seat  before 
him,  while  some  were  sorely  hurt. 

"  What  knight  is  this  who  fights  so  well  ?  ^'  asked 
the  king. 

"  Sir,^^  said  Tristram,  "  it  is  Lamorak  de  Galis, 
one  of  the  best  knights  who  ever  put  spear  in  rest.^^ 

"  Then,  Sir  Tristram,  you  must  meet  him.  It 
were  a  shame  to  us  all  to  let  him  go  away  victor.^' 

"It  were  a  greater  shame  to  overthrow  a  noble   ' 
knight  when  he  and  his  horse  are  worn  out  with 
over-labor.'* 

"  He  shall  not  leave  here  and  boast  of  how  he 
vanquished  King  Mark's  knights.  I  charge  you, 
as  )^ou  love  me  and  my  lady  La  Belle  Isolde,  to 
take  your  arms  and  joust  with  this  Lamorak/' 

"  You  charge  me  to  do  what  is  against  knight- 
hood, for  it  is  no  honor  for  a  fresh  man  and  horse 
to  master  spent  and  weary  ones.  Since  you  com- 
mand it  I  must  do  it,  but  it  is  sorely  against  my 
will." 

Then  he  armed  himself  and  took  his  horse,  and 
in  the  joust  easily  overthrew  Lamorak  and  his 
weary  steed.     The  knight  lightly  sprang  from  the 


284     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

falling  charger  and  drew  his  sword,  boldly  challeng- 
ing Tristram  to  meet  him  on  foot.  But  this  Tris- 
tram would  by  no  means  do,  though  Lamorak  hotly 
renewed  the  challenge. 

"  You  are  great  of  heart,  Sir  Lamorak,"  said 
Tristram,  "  but  no  knight  nor  horse  was  ever  made 
that  could  forever  endure.  Therefore  I  will  not 
meet  you,  and  I  am  sorry  for  having  jousted  with 
you." 

"  You  have  done  me  an  evil  turn,"  said  Lamo- 
rak, angrily,  "  for  which  I  shall  repay  you  when 
an  opportunity  comes." 

Lamorak  soon  got  his  revenge.  For  as  he  rode 
with  Sir  Driant  towards  Camelot  he  met  by  the 
way  a  boy  who  had  been  sent  by  Morgan  le  Fay 
to  King  Arthur.  For  the  false  enchantress  still 
held  to  her  hatred  against  her  noble  brother,  and 
by  all  means  sought  his  harm.  So  by  magic 
art  she  had  made  ia  drinking-horn  of  such  strange 
virtue  that  if  any  lady  drank  of  it  who  had  been 
false  to  her  husband  all  the  wine  would  be  spilled, 
but  if  she  had  been  true  to  him,  she  might  drink 
in  peace  and  safety. 

This  horn  she  sent  to  Arthur's  court,  hoping  that 
Guenever  might  drink  thereof  and  be  dishonored, 
for  her  love  for  Lancelot  was  known  to  all  but  the 
king. 

Lamorak,  learning  from  the  boy  his  errand,  bade 
him  bear  the  horn  to  King  Mark's  court,  and  tell 
the  king  that  it  was  sent  to  prove  the  falseness  of 
his  lady,  who  loved  Sir  Tristram  more  than  she 
did  her  wedded  lord. 

Soon    afterwards,    therefore,    the   boy    appeared 


THE   PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  285 

at  Tintagil  Castle,  and  presented  King  Mark  the 
magic  horn,  telling  him  of  its  virtues,  and  all  that 
Sir  Lamorak  had  bidden  him  say. . 

"  By  my  royal  faith  we  shall  try  it,  then !  "  said 
the  king.  "  Not  only  my  queen,  but  all  the  ladies 
of  the  court,  shall  drink  of  it,  and  we  shall  learn 
who  among  them  has  other  lovers  than  their  liege 
lords.^' 

Much  to  their  unwillingness,  Queen  Isolde  and 
a  hundred  ladies  of  the  court  were  made  to  drink 
from  the  magic  horn,  and  of  them  all  only  four 
drank  without  spilling  the  wine. 

"  Now,  by  my  knightly  honor,  all  these  false 
dames  shall  be  burnt !  "  cried  the  king.  "  My  court 
shall  be  purged  of  this  vile  stain.'^ 

"  That  shall  thev  not,"  cried  the  barons.  "  We 
shall  never  consent  that  the  queen  and  all  these 
ladies  shall  be  destroyed  for  a  horn  wrought  by 
sorcery,  and  sent  here  to  make  mischief  by  as  foul 
a  sorceress  and  witch  as  the  earth  holds.  She  has 
always  been  an  enemy  to  all  true  lovers  and  sought 
to  do  them  harm,  and  if  we  meet  with  Morgan  le 
Fay  she  will  get  but  scant  courtesy  at  our  hands. 
We  would  much  rather  believe  the  horn  false  than 
all  our  ladies  untrue." 

But  Tristram's  anger  was  turned  towards  La- 
morak for  this  affront,  for  he  knew  well  what  had 
been  his  purpose.  And  he  vowed  in  his  heart  that 
he  would  yet  repay  him  for  this  treacherous  act. 

His  affection  for  Queen  Isolde  kept  as  warm  as 
though  the  love-draught  still  flowed  in  his  veins, 
and  he  sought  her  at  every  opportunity,  for  the 
two  greatest  joys  that  life  held  for  him  were  to 


286     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

tell  her  of  his  love  and  hear  from  her  lips  that 
her  love  for  him  had  never  dimmed. 

But  his  treacherous  cousin  Andred  watched  his 
every  movement,  and  kept  the  king  advised  that 
Tristram  continued  his  secret  interviews  with  the 
queen.  So  an  ambush  of  twelve  knights  was  set, 
and  one  day,  when  Tristram  had  just  paid  a  stolen 
visit  to  the  queen,  and  sat  in  loving  converse  by 
her  side,  these  ambushed  knights  broke  suddenly 
upon  him,  took  him  prisoner,  and  bound  him  hand  • 
and  foot. 

Then,  by  order  of  the  king,  he  was  borne  to  a 
chapel  that  stood  on  a  rocky  height  above  the 
sea,  where  Andred  and  some  others  of  the  barons 
who  were  his  enemies  came  together  to  pass  judg- 
ment upon  him. 

Tristram  in  all  his  life  had  never  stood  in  such 
peril,  for  his  hands  were  bound  fast  to  two  knights, 
and  forty  others  surrounded  him,  every  one  a  foe. 
Care  had  been  taken  to  get  rid  of  his  friends  among 
the  barons  by  sending  them  away  from  the  court  on 
various  pretexts.  Like  a  lion  surrounded  by  jackals 
he  chafed  in  his  bonds,  while  his  great  -heart  swelled 
as  if  it  would  break.  Xo  escape  seemed  possible, 
but  with  a  reproachful  voice  he  said, — 

"  Fair  lords,  I  have  in  my  time  done  something 
for  Cornwall,  and  taken  upon  myself  great  peril 
for  your  benefit.  Who  among  you  all  was  ready 
to  meet  Sir  Marhaus,  or  to  cope  with  Palamides? 
Is  this  shameful  death  my  reward  for  my  services 
to  your  country?  You  know  well  that  T  never  met 
a  knight  but  that  I  was  his  match  or  his  better." 

"  Boast  not,  false  traitor,"  cried  Andred.  "  For 
all  thy  vaunting,  thou  shalt  die  this  day." 


THE  PERILS  OF  TRUE  LOVE.  287 

^^  0  Andred,  Andred,  that  you  my  kinsman  should 
treat  me  thus !  "  said  Tristram  sorrowfully.  "  You 
can  be  bold  when  I  am  bound,  but  if  there  were  none 
here  but  you  and  me,  you  would  crouch  like  a  cur 
at  my  feet." 

"  Would  I  so  ?  "  cried  Andred,  angrily.  "  You 
shall  see  what  I  would  do." 

And  as  he  spoke  he  drew  his  sword,  and  advanced 
upon  his  cousin  with  intent  to  slay  him  on  the 
spot.  But  Tristram,  when  he  say  him  coming  with 
murderous  looks,  suddenly  drew  inwards  with  all 
his  strength  the  two  knights  to  whom  he  was  bound, 
and  with  a  mighty  wrench  broke  the  strong  cords 
asunder.  Then  with  the  leap  of  a  tiger  he  sprang 
upon  his  treacherous  cousin,  wrested  the  sword  from 
his  hand,  and  smote  him  a  blow  that  hurled  him 
insensible  to  the  earth.  This  done,  he  rushed  with 
the  fury  of  a  madman  on  his  enemies,  striking 
mighty  blows  to  right  and  left,  till  in  a  few  minutes 
ten  of  them  lav  dead  and  wounded  on  the  earth. 

But  seeing  that  they  were  pressing  on  him  in  too 
great  force,  he  retreated  into  the  chapel,  in  whose 
door- way  he  stood,  sword  in  hand,  holding  it  against 
all  their  assaults. 

Soon,  however,  the  cry  went  forth  that  the  pris- 
oner had  escaped,  and  had  felled  Andred  and  killed 
many  of  the  barons,  and  others  of  his  foes  hastened 
up,  till  more  than  a  hundred  beleagured  him  in  the 
chapel. 

Tristram  now  looked  despairingly  on  his  unarmed 
form,  and  saw  that  many  of  his  assailants  wore 
armor  of  proof.  Death  was  sure  unless  he  could 
find   some   means   of.  escape.     He   knew   that  the 


288     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND   FAIR  ISOLDE. 

chapel  stood  on  the  brow  of  the  cliff,  and  here 
seemed  his  only  hope  of  safety,  though  it  was  a 
perilous  one.  Quickly  retreating,  he  shut  and 
barred  the  door,  and  then  with  hand  and  sword 
wrenched  and  tore  the  iron  bars  from  a  window 
over  the  cliff,  out  of  wTiich  he  desperately  leaped. 

The  descent  was  a  deep  one,  but  he  fortunately 
reached  the  sea  below  without  striking  any  of  the 
rocks  in  his  descent.  Here  he  drew  himself  into 
a  crevice  at  the  foot  of  the  cliff. 

Those  ahove  rushed  to  the  rocky  edge  and  looked 
down  into  the  boiling  waters  far  below,  but  they 
saw  nothing  of  the  daring  knight,  and  after  a  long 
and  vain  effort  to  see  him,  went  away  to  report  to 
the  king  that  his  enemy  was  drowned. 

But  while  King  Mark  and  Tristram's  enemies 
were  congratulating  one  another  upon  this,  there 
came  to  the  top  of  the  cliff,  Gouvernail,  Lambegus, 
and  others  of  Tristram's  men,  who,  looking  down, 
saw  him  creeping  up  from  the  water  to  a  safer 
place  of  shelter  amon^f  the  rocks.  Hailing  him, 
they  bade  him  to  be  of  good  heart,  and,  letting  down 
a  rope  which  they  quickly  procured,  they  managed 
to  draw  him  up  to  the  summit,  where  they  con- 
gratulated him  warmly  on  his  escape.  Without 
delay,  however,  he  left  that  spot,  for  fear  of  his  foes 
returning,  and  sought  a  place  of  shelter  in  the 
forest. 

Here  he  abode  for  some  time,  but  the  news  of 
his  escape  got  abroad,  to  the  discomfiture  of  his 
foes.  And  on  a  day  when  he  had  fallen  asleep,  a 
man  to  whom  he  had  done  some  injury  crept  up 
and  shot  him  in  the  shoulder  with  an  arrow.     Tris- 


THE  MADNESS  OP  SIR  TRISTRAM.  289 

tram  sprang  up  and  killed  the  man,  but  the  wound 
pained  him  day  by  day.  And  on  news  of  it  being 
brought  to  La  Belle  Isolde  she  sent  him  word  by 
Dame  Bragwaine  that  the  arrow  had  been  poisoned, 
and  with  a  venom  that  no  leech  in  England  could 
cure.  "  My  lady,  La  Belle  Isolde,  bids  you  haste 
into  Brittany  to  King  Howell,"  said  Dame  Brag- 
waine, "  for  she  knows  no  one  who  can  help  you  but 
his  daughter,  Isolde  la  Blanche  Mains." 

Hearing  this,  the  wounded  knight  sent  a  sad  fare- 
well to  his  lady  love,  and  took  ship  with  Gouver- 
nail  his  squire,  and  sailed  to  Brittany,  where  he  was 
warmly  welcomed  by  King  Howell. 

And  when  Isolde  of  the  white  hands  heard  of 
the  errand  of  the  knight,  she  applied  to  his  wound 
healing  herbs  of  such  virtue  that  in  a  little  while  he 
was  whole  again. 

Afterwards  Tristram  dwelt  long  in  Brittany,  and 
helped  King  Howell  much  in  his  wars. 


CHAPTEE  VI. 

THE   MADNESS   OF    SIR   TRISTRAM. 

Of  the  visit  of  Sir  Tristram  to  Brittany,  and 
the  healing  of  his  wound,  with  the  great  deeds  he 
did  there,  and  how  he  overthrew  the  giant  knight 
Nabon  le  Noire,  we  shall  not  further  speak.  Let- 
ters at  length  came  tohim  from  La  Belle  Isolde,  in 
which  she  spoke  pitifully  of  tales  that  had  been 

19 


290     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND   FAIR  ISOLDE. 

brought  her,  saying  that  he  had  been  false  to  her, 
and  had  married  Isolde  the  White  Handed,  daughter 
of  King  Howell  of  Brittany. 

On  receiving  these  letters,  Tristram  set  out  in 
all  haste  for  Cornwall,  bringing  with  him  Kehydius, 
King  Howell's  son.  On  his  way  there  he  had  many 
adventures,  and  rescued  King  Arthur  from  an  en- 
chantress, who  had  brought  him  near  to  death  in  the 
forest  perilous.  When  at  length  he  came  to  Corn- 
wall he  sought  the  castle  of  Dinas  the  seneschal, 
his  warmest  friend,  and  sent  him  to  tell  Queen 
Isolde  that  he  had  secretly  returned. 

At  this  longed-for  news  the  queen  swooned  from 
pure  joy.  When  she  recovered  and  was  able  to 
speak,  she  said,  in  pitiful  accents, — 

"  Gentle  seneschal,  I  pray  you  bring  him  where 
I  may  speak  with  him,  or  my  heart  will  break." 

"  Trust  me  for  that,''  answered  Dinas. 

Then  he  and  Dame  Bragwaine  brought  Tristram 
and  Kehydius  privately  to  the  court,  and  to  a  cham- 
ber which  Isolde  had  assigned  for  them.  But  to 
tell  the  joy  of  the  meeting  between  Tristram  and 
La  Belle  Isolde  we  shall  not  endeavor,  for  no  tongue 
could  tell  it,  nor  heart  think  it,  nor  pen  write  it. 

Yet  misfortune  still  pursued  these  true  lovers, 
and  this  time  it  came  from  friends  instead  of  foes, 
for  the  presence  of  Kehydius  in  the  castle  led  to 
the  most  doleful  and  melancholy  misfortune  which 
the  world  ever  knew.  For,  as  the  chronicles  make 
mention,  no  sooner  had  Kehvdius  seen  I^  Belle 
Isolde,  than  he  became  so  enamoured  of  her  that 
his  heart  might  never  more  be  free.  And  at  last, 
as  we  are  told,  he  died  from  pure  love  of  this  beauti- 


THE  MADNESS  OF  SIR  TRISTRAM.  291 

ful  queen,  but  with  that  we  are  not  here  concerned. 
But  privately  he  wrote  her  letters  which  were  full 
of  moving  tales  of  his  love,  and  composed  love 
poems  to  *her  which  no  minstrel  of  those  days  might 
surpass. 

All  these  he  managed  to  put  into  the  queen's 
hands  privately,  and  at  length,  when  she  saw  how 
deeply  he  was  enamoured,  she  was  moved  by  such 
pity  for  his  hopeless  love  that,  out  of  the  pure 
kindness  of  her  heart,  she  unwisely  wrote  him  a. 
letter,  seeking  to  comfort  him  in  his  distress. 

Sad  was  it  that  pity  should  bring  such  sorrow 
and  pain  to  two  loving  hearts  as  came  from  that 
fatal  letter.  For  on  a  day  when  King  Mark  sat 
playing  chess  at  a  chamber  window,  it  chanced 
that  La  Belle  Isolde  and  Kehydius  were  in  the 
chamber  above,  where  they  awaited  the  coming  of 
Tristram  from  the  turret-room  in  which  he  was 
secretlv  accommodated.  But  as  ill  luck  would 
have  it,  there  fell  into  Tristram's  hands  the  last 
letter  which  Kehydius  had  written  to  the  queen,  and 
her  answer,  which  was  so  worded  that  it  seemed  as 
is  she  returned  his  love. 

These  the  young  lover  had  carelessly  left  in  Tris- 
tram's chamber,  where  he  found  them  and  thought- 
lessly began  reading  them.  But  not  far  had  he  read 
when  his  heart  sank  deep  in  woe,  and  then  leaped 
high  in  anger.  He  hurried  in  all  haste  to  the 
chamber  where  Isolde  and  Kehydius  were,  the  let- 
ters in  his  hand. 

^'  Isolde,"  he  cried,  pitifully,  "  what  mean  these 
letters, — this  which  Kehydius  has  written  you,  and 
this,  your  answer,  with  its  vile  tale  of  love  ?     Alas ! 


292     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

is  thifi  my  repayment  for  the  love  I  have  lavished 
on  you,  that  you  thus  treacherously  desert  me  for 
the  viper  that  I  have  brought  hither? — As  for  you, 
Kehydius,  you  have  foully  repaid  my  trust  in  you 
and  all  my  services.  But  bear  you  well  in  mind 
that  I  shall  be  amply  revenged  for  your  falsehood 
and  treason." 

Then  he  drew  his  sword  with  such  a  fierce  and 
threatening  countenance  that  Isolde  swooned  out' 
of  pure  fear;  and  Kehydius,  when  he  saw  him 
advancing  with  murder  in  his  face,  saw  but  one 
chance  for  life,  and  leaped  out  of  a  bay  window 
immediately  over  that  where  King  Mark  sat  playing 
at  chess. 

When  the  king  saw  the  body  of  a  man  hurtling 
down  over  his  head,  i^o  close  that  he  almost  touched 
him  as  he  sat  at  the  window,  he  sprang  up  in 
alarm  and  cried, — 

**  What  the  foul  fiend  is  this?  Who  are  you, 
fellow?  and  where  in  the  wide  world  have  vou 
iY>me  from  ? '' 

Kehvdius,  who  had  fallen  on  his  feet,  answered 
the  king  with  ready  wit. 

**  Mv  lord,  the  kinjj,"  he  said,  ''blame  me  not, 
for  I  foil  in  my  sKn^p.  1  was  seateil  in  the  window 
aln^vo  vi>u,  and  slumbereil  there,  and  vou  see  what 
has  come  of  it," 

*'  The  next  time  you  are  sUvpy,  good  fellow, 
hunt  a  safer  ivuch,"  laugheil  the  king,  and  turned 
again  to  his  chess. 

Hut  Tristram  was  surt^  that  his  pres+^nce  in  the 
castle  would  now  1h^  known  to  the  king,  and  hast- 
entnl  to  arm  himself  with  such  armor  as  he  could 


THE  MADNESS  OF  SIR  TRISTRAM.  293 

find,  in  dread  of  an  assault  in  force.  But  as  no  one 
came  against  him,  he  sent  Gouvernail  for  his  horse 
and  spear,  and  rode  in  knightly  guise  openly  from 
the  gates  of  Tintagil. 

At  the  gate  it  chanced  that  he  met  with  Gingalin, 
the  son  of  Gawaine,  who  had  just  arrived ;  and  the 
young  knight,  being  full  of  ardor,  and  having  a 
fancy  to  tilt  with  a  Cornish  warrior,  put  his  spear 
in  rest  and  rode  against  Tristram,  breaking  his 
spear  on  him. 

Tristram  had  yet  no  spear,  but  he  drew  his  sword 
and  put  all  his  grief  and  anger  into  the  blow  he 
gave  the  bold  young  knight.  So  hard  he  struck 
that  Gingalin  was  flung  from  his  saddle,  and  the 
sword,  slipping  down,  cut  through  the  horse's  neck, 
leaving  the  knight  with  a  headless  charger. 

Then  Tristram  rode  on  until  he  disappeared  in 
the  forest.  All  this  was  seen  by  King  Mark,  who 
sent  a  squire  to  the  hurt  knight  and  asked  him 
who  he  was.  When  he  knew  it  was  Sir  Gingalin, 
he  welcomed  him,  and  proffered  him  another  horse, 
asking  what  knight  it  was  he  had  encountered. 

"  That  I  know  not,"  said  Gingalin,  "  but  he  has 
a  mighty  wrist,  whoever  he  is.  And  he  sighed  and 
moaned  as  if  some  great  disaster  had  happened 
him.  I  shall  beware  of  weeping  knights  hereafter, 
if  they  all  strike  like  this." 

As  Tristram  rode  on  he  met  Sir  Fergus,  one  of 
his  own  knights,  but  by  this  time  his  grief  and  pain 
of  heart  had  grown  so  bitter  that  he  fell  from  his 
horse  in  a  swoon,  and  lay  thus  for  three  days  and 
nights. 

When   at   length   he  came  to   himself,   he   sent 


294     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

Fergus,  who  had  remained  with  him,  to  the  court,  to 
bring  him  what  tidings  he  might  learn.  As  Fergus 
rode  forward  he  met  a  damsel  whom  Palamides 
had  sent  to  inquire  about  Sir  Tristram.  Fergus 
told  her  how  he  had  met  him,  and  that  he  was 
almost  out  of  his  mind. 

"  Where  shall  I  find  him  ?  '^  asked  the  damsel. 

"  In  such  a  place,"  explained  Fergus,  and  rode 
on  to  the  court,  w^here  he  learned  that  Queen  Isolde 
was  sick  in  bed,  moaning  pitifully,  though  no  one 
knew  the  source  of  her  pain. 

The  damsel  meanwhile  sought  Tristram,  whom 
she  found  in  such  grief  as  she  had  never  before 
seen,  and  the  more  she  tried  to  console  him  the 
more  he  moaned  and  bewailed.  At  the  last  he  took 
his  horse  and  rode  deeply  into  the  forest,  as  if  he 
would  be  away  from  all  human  company. 

The  damsel  now  sought  him  diligently,  but  it 
was  three  days  before  she  could  find  him,  in  a 
miserable  woodland  hut.  Here  she  brought  him 
meat  and  drink,  but  he  would  eat  nothing,  and 
seemed  as  if  he  wished  to  starve  himself. 

A  few  days  afterwards  he  fled  from  her  again, 
and  on  this  occasion  it  chanced  that  he  rode  bv 
the  castle  before  which  he  and  Palamides  had 
fought  for  La  Belle  Isolde.  Here  the  damsel  found 
him  again,  moaning  dismally,  and  quite  beside 
himself  with  grief.  In  despair  what  to  do,  she 
went  to  the  ladv  of  the  castle  and  told  her  of  the 
misfortune  of  the  knight. 

"It  grieves  me  to  learn  this,"  said  the  lady. 
"  Where  is  he  ?  " 

"  Here,  near  by  your  castle." 


THE  MADNESS  OF  SIR  TRISTRAM.  295 

"  I  am  glad  he  is  so  near.  He  shall  have  meat 
and  drink  of  the  best,  and  a  harp  which  I  have  of 
Jiis,  and  on  which  he  taught  me  to  play.  For  in 
harping  he  has  no  peer  in  the  world.'' 

So  they  took  him  meat  and  drink,  but  had  much 
ado  to  get  him  to  eat.  And  during  the  night  his 
madness  so  increased  that  he  drove  his  horse  from 
him,  and  unlaced  his  armor  and  threw  it  wildly 
away.  For  days  afterwards  he  roamed  like  a  wild 
man  about  the  wilderness ;  now  in  a  mad  frenzv 
breaking  boughs  from  the  trees,  and  even  tearing 
young  trees  up  by  the  roots,  and  now  for  hours  play- 
ing on  the  harp  which  the  lady  had  given  him,  while 
tears  flowed  in  rivulets  from  his  eyes. 

Sometimes,  again,  when  the  lady  knew  not  where 
he  was,  she  would  sit  down  in  the  wood  and  play 
upon  the  harp,  which  he  had  left  hanging  on  a 
bough.  Then  Tristram  would  come  like  a  tamed 
fawn  and  listen  to  her,  hiding  in  the  bushes;  and 
in  the  end  would  come  out  and  take  the  harp  from 
her  hand  and  play  on  it  himself,  in  mournful  strains 
that  brought  the  tears  to  her  eyes. 

Thus  for  a  quarter  of  a  year  the  demented  lover 
roamed  the  forest  near  the  castle.  But  at  length 
he  wandered  deeper  into  the  wilderness,  and  the 
lady  knew  not  whither  he  had  gone.  Finally,  his 
clothes  torn  into  tatters  by  the  thorns,  and  he  fallen 
away  till  he  was  lean  as  a  hound,  he  fell  into  the 
fellowship  of  herdsmen  and  shepherds,  who  gave 
him  daily  a  share  of  their  food,  and  made  him  do 
servile  tasks.  And  when  he  did  anv  deed  not  to 
their  liking  they  would  beat  him  with  rods.  In 
the  end,  as  they  looked  upon  him  as  witless,  they 


296     TRISTBAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

clipped  his  hair  and  beard,  and  made  him  look  like 
a  fool. 

To  such  a  vile  extremity  had  love,  jealousy,  and 
despair  brought  the  brave  knight  Tristram  de 
Lyonesse,  that  from  being  the  fellow  of  lords  and 
nobles  he  became  the  butt  of  churls  and  cowherds. 
About  this  time  it  happened  that  Dagonet,  the  fool 
and  merry-maker  of  King  Arthur,  rode  into  Corn- 
wall with  two  squires,  and  chance  brought  them 
to  a  well  in  the  forest  which  was  much  haunted 
by  the  demented  knight.  The  weather  was  hot,  and 
they  alighted'  and  stooped  to  drink  at  the  well, 
while  their  horses  ran  loose.  As  they  bent  over  the 
well  in  their  thirst,  Tristram  suddenly  appeared, 
and,  moved  by  a  mad  freak,  he  seized  Dagonet  and 
soused  him  headforemost  in  the  well,  and  the  two 
squires  after  him.  The  dripping  victims  crawled 
miserably  from  the  water,  amid  the  mocking 
laughter  of  the  shepherds,  while  Tristram  ran  after 
the  stray  horses.  These  being  brought,  he  forced 
the  fool  and  the  squires  to  mount,  soaked  as  they 
were,  and  ride  away. 

But  after  Tristram  had  departed,  Dagonet  and 
the  squires  returned,  and  accusing  the  shepherds 
of  having  set  that  madman  on  to  assail  them,  they 
rode  upon  the  keepers  of  beasts  and  beat  them 
shrewdly.  Tristram,  as  it  chanced,  was  not  so 
far  off  but  that  he  saw  this  ill-treatment  of  those 
who  had  fed  him,  and  he  ran  back,  pulled  Dagonet 
from  the  saddle,  and  gave  him  a  stunning  fall  to 
the  earth.  Then  he  wrested  the  sword  from  his 
hand  and  with  it  smote  off  the  head  of  one  of  the 
squires,  while  the  other  fled  in  terror.     Tristram 


THE  MADNESS  OP  SIR  TRISTRAM.  297 

followed  him,  brandishing  the  sword  wildly,  and 
leaping  like  a  madman  as  he  rushed  into  the  forest. 

When  Dagonet  had  recovered  from  his. swoon,  he 
rode  to  King  Mark's  court,  and  there  told  what  had 
happened  to  him  in  the  wildwood. 

"  Let  all  beware,"  he  said,  "  how  they  come  near 
that  forest  well.  For  it  is  haunted  by  a  naked 
madman,  and  that  fool  soused  me.  King  Arthur^s 
fool,  and  had  nearly  slain  me." 

"  That  must  be  Sir  Matto  le  Breune,"  said  King 
Mark,  "  who  lost  his  wit  because  Sir  Gaheris  robbed 
him  of  his  lady." 

Meanwhile,  Kehydius  had  been  ordered  out  of 
Cornwall  by  Queen  Isolde,  who  blamed  him  for 
all  that  had  happened,  and  with  a  dolorous  heart 
he  obeyed.  By  chance  he  met  Palamides,  to  whom 
the  damsel  had  reported  the  sad  condition  of  the 
insane  knight,  and  for  days  they  sought  him  to- 
gether, but  in  vain. 

But  at  Tintagil  a  foul  scheme  was  laid  by  Andred, 
Tristram's  cousin  and  foe,  to  gain  possession  of  his 
estates.  This  villain  got  a  lady  to  declare  that  she 
had  nursed  Tristram  in  a  fatal  illness,  that  he  had 
died  in  her  care,  and  had  been  buried  by  her  near 
a  forest  well;  and  she  further  said  that  before 
his  death  he  had  left  a  request  that  King  Mark 
would  make  Andred  king  of  Lyonesse,  of  which 
country  Tristram  now  was  lord. 

On  hearing  these  tidings,  King  Mark  made  a  great 
show  of  grief,  weeping  and  lamenting  as  if  he  had 
lost  his  best  friend  in  the  world.  But  when  the 
news  came  to  La  Belle  Isolde,  #o  deep  a  weight  of 
woe  fell  upon  her  that  she  nearly  went  out  of  her 


298     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

mind.  So  deeply  did  she  grieve,  indeed,  that  she 
vowed  to  destroy  herself,  declaring  bitterly  that  she 
would  not  live  if  Tristram  was  dead. 

So  she  secretly  got  a  sword  and  went  with  it  into 
her  garden,  where  she  forced  the  hilt  into  a  crevice 
in  a  plum-tree  so  that  the  naked  point  stood  out 
breast  high.  Then  she  kneeled  down  and  prayed 
piteously :  "  Sweet  Lord  Jesus,  have  pity  on  me, 
for  I  may  not  live  after  the  death  of  Sir  Tristram. 
My  first  love  he  was,  and  he  shall  be  my  last." 
,  All  this  had  been  seen  by  King  Mark,  who  had 
followed  her  privily,  and  as  she  rose  and  was  about 
to  cast  herself  on  the  sword  he  came  behind  and 
caught  her  in  his  arms.  Then  he  tore  the  sword 
from  the  tree,  and  bore  her  away,  struggling  and 
moaning,  to  a  strong  tower,  /where  he  set  guards 
upon  her,  bidding  them  to  watch  her  closely.  After 
that  she  lay  long  sick,  and  came  nigh  to  the  point  of 
death. 

Meanwhile,  Tristram  ran  wildly  through  the 
forest,  with  Dagonet^s  sword  in  his  hand,  till  he 
came  to  a  hermitage,  where  he  lay  down  and  slept. 
While  he  slumbered,  the  hermit,  who  knew  of  his 
madness,  stole  the  sword  from  him  and  laid  meat 
beside  him.  Here  he  remained  ten  days,  and  after- 
wards departed  and  returned  to  the  herdsmen. 

A^d  now  another  adventure  happened.  There 
was  in  that  country  a  giant  named  Tauleas,  brother 
to  that  Taulurd  whom  Sir  Marhaus  had  killed. 
For  fear  of  Tristram  he  had  for  seven  years  kept 
close  in  his  castle,  daring  not  to  go  at  large  and 
commit  depredation^  as  of  old.  But  now,  hearing 
the  rumor  that  Tristram  was  dead,  he  resumed  his 


THE  MADNESS  OP  SIR  TRISTRAM.  299 

old  evil  courses.  And  one  dav  he  came  to  where  the 
herdsmen  were  engaged,  and  seated  himself  to  rest 
among  them.  By  chance  there  passed  along  the 
road  near  by  a  Cornish  knight  named  Sir  Dinant, 
with  whom  rode  a  lady. 

When  the  giant  saw  them  coming,  he  left  the 
herdsmen  and  hid  himself  under  a  tree  near  a 
well,  deeming  that  the  knight  would  stop  there  to 
drink.  This  he  did,  but  no  sooner  had  he  sought 
the  well  than  the  giant  slipped  from  his  covert  and 
leaped  upon  the  horse.  Then  he  rode  upon  Sir 
Dinant,  took  him  by  the  collar,  and  pulled  him 
before  him  upon  the  horse,  reaching  for  his  dagger 
to  strike  off  his  head. 

At  this  moment  the  herdsmen  called  to  Tris- 
tram, who  had  just  come  from  the  forest  depths: 
*^Help  the  knight." 

"  Help  him  yourselves,"  said  Tristram. 

"  We  dare  not,"  they  replied. 

Then  Tristram  ran  up  and  seized  the  sword  of 
the  knight,  which  had  fallen  to  the  ground,  and 
with  one  broad  sweep  struck  off  the  head  of  Tauleas 
clean  from  the  shoulders.  This  done  he  dropped 
the  sword  as  if  he  had  done  but  a  trifle  and  went 
back  to  the  herdsmen. 

Shortly  after  this.  Sir  Dinant  appeared  at  Tin- 
tagil,  bearing  with  him  the  giant's  head,  and  there 
told  what  had  happened  to  him  and  how  he  had 
been  rescued. 

"  Where  had  you  this  adventure  ? "  asked  the 
king. 

"  At  the  herdsmen's  fountain  in  the  forest,"  said 
Dinant.      "  There   where   so   many   knights-errant 


300     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  ISOLDE. 

meet.     They  say  this  madman  haunts  that  spot." 

"  He  cannot  be  Matto  le  Breune,  as  I  fancied/^ 
said  the  king.  "  It  was  a  man  of  no  small  might 
who  made  that  stroke.  I  shall  seek  this  wild  man 
myself." 

On  the  next  day  King  Mark,  with  a  following 
of  knights  and  hunters,  rode  into  the  forest,  where 
they  continued  their  course  till  they  came  to  the 
well.  Lying  beside  it  they  saw  a  gaunt,  naked 
man,  with  a  sword  beside  him.  Who  he  was  they 
knew  not,  for  madness  and  exposure  had  so  changed 
Tristram's  face  that  no  one  knew  it. 

By  the  king's  command  he  was  picked  up  slum- 
bering and  covered  with  mantles,  and  thus  borne 
in  a  litter  to  Tintagil.  Here  they  bathed  and 
washed  him,  and  gave  him  warm  food  and  gentle 
care,  till  his  madness  passed  away  and  his  wits 
came  back  to  him.  But  no  one  knew  him,  so  much 
had  he  changed,  while  all  deemed  Tristram  dead, 
and  had  no  thought  of  him. 

Word  of  what  had  happened  came  to  Isolde  where 
she  lay  sick,  and  with  a  sudden  whim  she  rose 
from  her  bed  and  bade  Bragwaine  come  with  her, 
as  she  had  a  fancy  to  see  the  forest  madman. 

Asking  where  he  was,  she  was  told  that  he  was 
in  the  garden,  resting  in  an  arbor,  in  a  light  slum- 
ber. Hither  they  sought  him  and  looked  down 
upon  him,  knowing  him  not. 

But  as  they  stood  there  Tristram  woke,  and  when 
he  saw  the  queen  he  turned  away  his  head,  while 
tears  ran  from  his  eyes.  It  happened  that  the 
queen  had  with  her  a  little  brachet,  which  Tristram 
had  given  her  when  she  first  came  to  Cornwall,  and 


THE  MADNESS  OF  SIR  TRISTRAM.  301 

which  always  remembered  and  loved  its  old  master. 

When  this  little  creature  came  near  the  sick  man^ 
she  leaped  upon  him  and  licked  his  cheeks  and 
hands,  and  whined  about  him,  showing  great  joy 
and  excitement. 

"The  dog  is  wiser  than  us  all,''  cried  Dame 
Bragwainc.  "  She  knows  her  master.  They  spoke 
falsely  who  said  he  was  dead.     It  is  Sir  Tristram." 

But  Isolde  fell  to  the  ground  in  a  swoon,  and  lay 
there  long  insensible.  When  at  length  she  recov- 
ered, she  said, — 

"  My  dear  lord  and  knight,  I  thank  God  deeply 
that  you  still  live,  for  the  story  of  your  death  had 
nearly  caused  mine.  Your  life  is  in  dread  danger, 
for  when  King  ]\Iark  knows  you  he  will  either 
banish  or  destroy  you.  Therefore  I  beg  you  to  fly 
from  this  court  and  seek  that  of  King  Arthur  where 
you  are  beloved.  This  you  may  trust,  that  at  all 
times,  early  and  late,  my  love  for  you  will  keep 
fresh  in  my  heart." 

"  I  pray  you  leave  me,  Isolde,"  answered  the 
knight.  "  It  is  not  well  that  you  should  be  seen 
here.  Fear  not  that  I  will  forget  what  you  have 
said." 

Then  the  queen  departed,  but  do  what  she  would 
the  brachet  would  not  follow  her,  but  kept  with  the 
sick  knight.  Soon  afterwards  King  Mark  visited 
him,  and  to  his  surprise  the  brachet  sat  upon  the 
prostrate  man  and  bayed  at  the  king. 

"  What  does  this  mean  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  I  can  tell  you,"  answered  a  knight.  "  That 
dog  was  Sir  Tristram's  before  it  was  the  queen's. 
The  brachet  is  wiser  than  us  alL  It  knows  its 
master." 


302     TRISTRAM  OF  LYONESSE  AND  FAIR  IBOLDE, 

"  That  I  cannot  believe,"  said  the  king.  "  Tell 
me  your  name,  my  good  man." 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  of  Lyonesse,"  answered 
the  knight.  "  I  am  in  your  power.  Do  with  me 
what  you  will." 

The  king  looked  at  him  long  and  strangely,  with 
anger  in  his  eyes. 

"  Truly,"  he  said,  "  you  had  better  have  died 
while  you  were  about  it.  It  would  have  saved  me 
the  need  of  dealing  with  you  as  you  deserve." 

Then  he  returned  to  the  castle,  and  called  his 
barons  hastily  to  council,  sternly  demanding  that, 
the  penalty  of  death  should  be  adjudged  against 
the  knight.  Happily  for  Tristram,  the  barons 
would  not  consent  to  this,  and  proposed  instead  that 
the  accused  knight  should  be  banished. 

So  in  the  end  the  sentence  was  passed  that  Tris- 
tram should  be  banished  for  ten  vears  from  the 
country  of  Cornwall,  not  to  return  under  pain  of 
death.  To  this  the  knight  assented,  taking  an 
oath  before  the  king  and  his  barons  that  he  would 
abide  by  the  decision  of  the  court. 

Many  barons  accompanied  him  to  the  ship  in 
which  he  was  to  set  sail.  And  as  he  was  going, 
there  arrived  at  Tintagil  a  knight  of  King  Arthur's 
court  named  Dinadan,  who  had  been  sent  to  seek 
Sir  Tristram  and  request  him  to  come  to  Camelot. 

On  being  shown  the  banished  knight,  he  went  to 
him  and  told  his  errand. 

"  You  come  in  good  season,"  said  Tristram,  "  for 
to  Camelot  am  I  now  bound." 

Then  T  would  go  with  you  in  fellowship." 
You  are  right  welcome,  Sir  Dinadan."     Then 
Tristram  turned  to  the  others  and  said, — 


66 


THE  MADNESS  OF  SIR  TRISTRAM.  303 

"  Greet  King  Mark  from  me,  and  all  my  enemies 
as  well,  and  tell  them  that  I  shall  come  again  in 
my  own  good  time.  I  am  well  rewarded  for  all 
I  have  done  for  him,  hut  revenge  has  a  long  life, 
as  he  may  yet  learn.''  ■.>  , 

Then  he  took  ship  and  put  to  sea,  a  banished 
man.  And  with  him  went  Dinadan  to  cheer'  him 
in  his  woe,  for,  of  all  the  knights  of  the  Bound 
Table,  Dinadan  was  the  merriest  soul. 


BOOK  VII. 

HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


CHAPTER  I. 

TRISTRAM  AND  DINADAN. 

And  now  it  behooves  us  to  follow  the  banished 
knight  in  his  adventures,  for  they  were  manv  and 
various,  and  arduous  were  the  labors  with  which 
he  won  his  right  to  a  seat  at  the  Round  Table. 
We  have  told  the  tale  of  his  love  and  madness,  and 
now  must  relate  the  marvellous  exploits  of  his 
banishment. 

Hardly,  indeed,  had  Tristram  and  Dinadan 
landed  in  Arthur's  realms  when  they  met  two 
knights  of  his  court,  Hector  de  Maris  and  Bors 
de  Ganis.  This  encounter  took  place  upon  a  bridge, 
where  Hector  and  Dinadan  jousted,  and  Dinadan 
and  his  horse  were  overthrown.  But  Bors  refused 
to  fight  with  Tristram,  through  the  contempt  he 
felt  for  Cornish  knights.  Yet  the  honor  of  Corn- 
wall was  soon  retrieved,  for  Sir  Bleoberis  and  Sir 
Driant  now  came  up,  and  Bleoberis  proffered  to 
joust  with  Tristram,  who  quickly  smote  him  to  the 
earth. 

This  done,  Tristram  and  Dinadan  departed,  leav- 
ing their  opponents   in   surprise  that   such   valor 

QnA 


TRISTRAM  AND  DINADAN.  305 

and  might  could  come  out  of  Cornwall.  But  not 
far  had  the  two  knights-errant  gone  when  they 
entered  a  forest,  where  they  met  a  damsel,  who 
was  in  search  of  some  noble  knights  to  rescue  Sir 
Lancelot.  Morgan  le  Fay,  who  hated  him  bitterly 
since  his  escape  from  her  castle,  had  laid  an  ambush 
of  thirty  knights  at  a  point  which  Lancelot  was 
approaching,  thinking  to  attack  him  ijnawares 
and  so  slay  him. 

The  damsel,  who  had  learned  of  this  plot,  had 
already  met  the  four  knights  whom  Tristram  and 
Dinadan  had  encountered,  and  obtained  their 
promise  to  come  to  the  rescue. 

•  She  now  told  her  story  of  crime  and  treachery 
to  the  two  wanderers,  with  the  same  request. 

"  Fair  damsel,"  said  Tristram,  "  you  could  set 
me  no  more  welcome  task.  Guide  me  to  the  place 
where  those  dastards  lie  in  ambush  for  Lancelot." 

"What  would  you  do?"  cried  Dinadan.  "We 
cannot  match  thirty  knights.  Two  or  three  are 
enough  for  any  one  knight,  if  they  be  men.  I  hope 
you  don't  fancy  that  I  will  take  fifteen  to  my 
share ! " 

"  Come,  come,  good  comrade,"  said  Tristram. 
"  Do  not  show  the  white  feather." 

"  I  would  rather  wear  the  white  feather  than  the 
fool's  cap,"  said  Dinadan.  "Lend  me  your  shield 
if  you  will ;  for  I  had  sooner  carry  a  Cornish  shield, 
which  all  men  say  only  cowards  bear,  than  try  any 
such  foolhardy  adventure." 

"  Nay ;  T  will  keep  my  shield  for  the  sake  of 
her  who  gave  it  to  me,"  answered  Tristram.  "  But 
this  T  warn  you,  if  you  will  not  abide  with  me  I 

20 


306  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

shall  slay,  you  before  we  part,  for  a  coward  has  no 
right  to  cumber  the  earth.  I  ask  no  more  of  you 
than  to  ^ght  one  knight.  If  your  heart  is  too 
faint  for  that,  then  stand  by  and  see  me  meet  the 
whole  crew." 

"  Very  well,"  said  Dinadan,  "  you  can  trust  me 
to  look  on  bravely,  and  mayhap  to  do  something 
to  save  jny  head  from  hard  knocks;  but  I  would 
give  my  helmet  if  I  had  not  met  you.  Folks  say 
you  are  cured  of  your  mad  fit,  but  I  vow  if  I  have 
much  faith  in  your  sound  sense." 

Tristram  smiled  grimly  at  Dinadan's  scolding, 
and  kept  on  after  the  damsel.  Not  far  had  they 
gone  before  they  met  the  thirty  knights.  These 
had  already  passed  the  four  knights  of  Arthur^s 
court,  without  a  combat,  and  they  now  rode  in  the 
same  way  past  Tristram  and  Dinadan,  with  no  show 
of  hostility. 

But  Tristram  was  of  different  mettle.  Turning 
towards  them  he  cried  with  a  voice  of  thunder, — 
"  Lo !  sir  villains.  I  have  heard  of  your  plot  to 
murder  Lancelot.  Turn  and  defend  vourselves. 
Here  is  a  knight  ready  to  fight  you  all  for  the 
love  of  Lancelot  du  Lake !  " 

Then,  spurring  his  good  war-steed,  he  rode  upon 
them  with  the  fury  of  a  lion,  slaying  two  with  his 
spear.  He  then  drew  his  mighty  blade,  and  attacked 
them  with  such  fierce  spirit  and  giant  strength 
that  ten  more  soon  fell  dead  beneath  his  furious 
blows.  Nor  did  Dinadan  stand  and  look  on,  as 
he  had  grumblingly  threatened,  but  rode  in  and 
aided  Tristram  nobly,  more  than  one  of  tlie  villains 
falling  before  his  blows.     When,  at  length,  the  mur- 


TRISTRAM  AND  DINADAN.  307 

derous  crew  took  to  flight,  there  were  but  ten  of 
them  alive. 

Sir  Bors  and  his  companions  had  seen  this  battle 
at  a  distance,  but  it  was  all  over  before  thev  could 
reach  the  scene  of  fray.  High  was  their  praise  of 
the  valor  and  prowess  of  the  victor,  who,  they  said, 
had  done  such  a  deed  as  they  had  deemed  only 
Lancelot  could  perform. 

They  invited  him  with  knightly  warmth  and 
courtesy  to  go  with  them  to  their  lodging. 

"  Many  thanks,  fair  sirs,"  said  Tristram,  "  but  I 
cannot  go  with  you." 

"  Then  tell  us  your  name,  that  we  may  remember 
it  as  that  of  one'  of  the  best  of  knights,  and  give 
you  the  honor  which  is  your  due." 

"  Nor  that  either,"  answered  Tristram.  "  In 
good  time  you  shall  know  my  name,  but  not  now." 

licaving  them  with  the  dead  knights,  Tristram 
and  Dinadan  rode  forward,  and  in  time  found 
themselves  near  a  party  of  shepherds  and  herds- 
men, whom  they  asked  if  any  lodging  was  to  be  had 
near  by. 

"  That  there  is,"  said  the  herdsmen,  '^  and  good 
lodging,  in  a  castle  close  at  hand.  But  it  is  not 
to  be  had  for  the  asking.  The  custom  of  that  castle 
is  that  no  knight  shall  lodge  there  except  he  fight 
with  two  knights  of  the  castle.  But  as  you  are 
two,  you  can  fight  your  battle  man  for  man,  if  you 
seek  lodging  there." 

"  That  is  rough  pay  for  a  night's  rest,"  said 
Dinadan.  "  Lodge  where  you  will,  I  will  not  rest 
in  that  castle.  I  have  done  enough  to-day  to  spoil 
my  appetite  for  fighting." 


308  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

'^  Come,  come,"  said  Tristram,  "  and  you  a  Knight 
of  the  Round  Table!  You  cannot  refuse  to  win 
your  lodging  in  knightly  fashion." 

"  Win  it  you  must  if  you  want  it,"  said  the  herds- 
men ;  "  for  if  you  have  the  worse  of  the  battle  no 
lodging  will  you  gain  in  these  quarters,  except  it 
be  in  the  wild  wood." 

"  Be  it  so,  if  it  must,"  said  Dinadan.  "  In  flat 
English,  I  will  not  go  to  the  castle." 

"  Are  you  a  man  ?  "  demanded  Tristram,  scorn- 
fully. "  Come,  Dinadan,  I  know  you  are  no  coward. 
On  your  knighthood,  come." 

Growling  in   his  throat,  Dinadan   followed   his 

comrade,  sorely  against  his  will,  and  together  they 

rode  into  the  castle  court.     Here  they  found,  as 

nlthey  had  been  told,  two  armed  knights  ready  to 

••  irwtithem. 

.-To  make  a  long  story  short,  Tristram  and  Din- 
•  adan  smote  them  both  down,  and  afterwards  entered 
the  castle,  where  the  best  of  good  cheer  was  served 
them.  But  when  they  had  disarmed,  and  were 
having  a  merry  time  at  the  well-filled  table,  word 
Tvas  brought  them  that  two  other  knights,  Pala- 
mides  and  Gaheris,  had  entered  the  gates,  and 
demanded  a  joust  according  to  the  castle  custom. 

"  The  foul  fiend  take  them !  "  cried  Dinadan. 
"  Fight  I  will  not;   I  am  here  for  rest." 

"  We  are  now  the  lords  of  the  castle,  and  must 
defend  its  custom,"  said  Tristram.  "Make  ready, 
therefore,  for  fight  you  must." 

"  Why,  in  the  devil's  name,  came  I  here  in  your 
company  ?  "  cried  Dinadan.  "  You  will  wear  all 
the  flesh  off  my  bones." 


TRISTRAM  AND  DINADAN.  309 

But  there  was  nothing  to  do  but  arm  themselves 
and  meet  the  two  knights  in  the  court-yard.  Of 
these  Gaheris  encountered  Tristram,  and  got  a  fall 
for  his  pains;  but  Palamides  hurled  Dinadan  from 
his  horse.  So  far,  then,  it  was  fall  for  fall,  and  the 
contest  could  be  decided  only  by  a  fight  on  foot. 
But  Dinadan  was  bruised  from  his  fall  and  refused 
to  fight.  Tristram  uOjlaced  his  helmet  to  give  him 
air,  and  prayed  him  for  his  aid. 

"  Fight  them  yourself,  if  you  will ;  two  such 
knights  are  but  a  morsel  to  you,''  said  Dinadan. 
"  As  for  me,  I  am  sore  wounded  from  our  little 
skirmish  with  the  thirty  knights,  and  have  no  valor 
left  in  me.  Sir  Tristram,  you  are  a  madman  yet, 
and  I  curse  the  time  that  ever  I  saw  you.  In  all 
the  world  there  are  no  two  such  mad  freaks  as 
Lancelot  and  you.  Once  I  fell  into  fellowship  with 
Lancelot  as  I  have  now  with  you,  and  what  fol- 
lowed? Why,  he  set  me  a  task  that  kept  me  a 
quarter  of  a  year  in  bed.  Defend  me  from  such 
head-splitters,  and  save  me  from  your  fellowship." 

"Then  if  you  will  not  fight  I  must  face  them 
both,"  said  Tristram.  "  Come  forth,  both  of  you, 
I  am  ready  for  you." 

At  this  challenge  Palamides  and  Gaheris  ad- 
vanced and  struck  at  the  two  knights.  But  after 
a  stroke  or  two  at  Gaheris,  Dinadan  withdrew  from 
the  fray. 

"This  is  not  fair,  two  to  one,"  said  Palamides. 
"  Stand  aside,  Gaheris,  with  that  knight  who  de- 
clines to  fight,  and  let  us  two  finish  the  combat." 

Then  he  and  Tristram  fought  long  and  fiercely, 
Tristram  in  the  end  driving  him  back  three  paces. 


310  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

At  this  Gaheris  and  Dinadan  pushed  between  them 
and  bade  them  cease  fighting,  as  both  had  done 
enough  for  honor. 

"  So  be  it/'  said  Tristram,  "  and  these  brave 
knights  are  welcome  to  lodge  with  us  in  the  castle 
if  they  will/^ 

"With  you,  not  with  us,''  said  Dinadan,  dryly. 
"  When  I  lodge  in  that  devil's  den  may  I  sell  my 
sword  for  a  herring.  W^e  will  be  called  up  every 
hour  of  the  night  to  fight  for  our  bedding.  And 
as  for  you,  good  friend,  when  I  ride  with  you  again^ 
it  will  be  when  you  have  grown  older  and  wiser, 
or  I  vounffer  and  more  foolish.'^ 

With  these  words  he  mounted  his  horse  and  rode 
in  an  ill-humor  out  of  the  castle  gates. 

"  Come,  good  sirs,  we  must  after  him,"  said  Tris- 
tram, with  a  laugh.  "  He  is  a  prime  good  fellow, 
if  he  has  taken  himself  off  in  a  pet;  it  is  likely  I 
gave  him  an  overdose  of  fighting." 

So,  asking  a  man  of  the  castle  to  guide  them  to  a 
lodging,  they  rode  after  Dinadan,  whom  they  soon 
overtook,  though  he  gave  them  no  hearty  welcome. 
Two  miles  farther  brought  them  to  a  priory,  where 
they  spent  the  night  in  comfort. 

Early  the  next  day  Tristram  mounted  and  rode 
away,  leaving  Dinadan  at  the  priory,  for  he  was  too 
much  bruised  to  mount  his  horse.  There  remained 
at  the  priory  with  him  a  knight  named  Pellinore, 
who  sought  earnestly  to  learn  Tristram's  name,  and 
at  last  said  angrily  to  Dinadan, — 

"  Since  you  will  not  tell  me  his  name,  I  will  ride 
after  him  and  make  him  tell  it  himself,  or  leave 
him  on  the  ground  to  repent." 


TRISTRAM  AND  DINADAN.  311 

"  Beware,  my  good  sir/'  said  Dinadan,  ^^  or  the 
repentance  will  be  yours  instead  of  his.  No  wise 
man  is  he  who  thrusts  his  own  hand  in  the  fire/' 

"  Good  faith,  I  fear  him  not/'  said  Pellinore, 
haughtily,  and  rode  on  his  way. 

But  he  paid  dearly  for  his  hardness,  for  a  half- 
hour  afterwards  he  lay  on  the  earth  with  a  spear 
wound  in  his  shoulder,  while  Tristram  rode  un- 
scathed on  his  way. 

On  the  day  following  Tristram  met  with  pur- 
suivants, who  were  spreading  far  and  wide  the 
news  of  a  great  tournament  that  was  to  be  held 
between  King  Carados  and  tha  king  of  North 
Wales,  at  the  Castle  of  Maidens.  They  were  seek- 
ing for  good  knights  to  take  part  in  that  tourna- 
ment, and  in  particular  King  Carados  had  bidden 
them  to  seek  T^ancelot,  and  the  king  of  Northgalis 
to  seek  Tristram  de  Lyonesse. 

"  Lancelot  is  not  far  away,"  said  Tristram.  "  As 
for  me,  I  will  be  there,  and  do  my  best  to  win  honor 
in  the  fray.^^ 

And  so  he  rode  away,  and  soon  after  met  with 
Sir  Kay  and  Sir  Sagramore,  with  whom  he  refused 
to  joust,  as  he  wished  to'  keep  himself  fresh  for  the 
tournament. 

But  as  Kay  twitted  him  with  being  a  cowardly 
knight  of  Cornwall,  he  turned  on  him  and  smote 
him  from  his  horse.  Then,  to  complete  the  tale, 
he  served  Sagramore  with  the  same  sauce,  and 
serenely  rode  on  his  way,  leaving  them  to  heal  their 
bruises  with  repentance. 


312  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


CHAPTER  II. 

ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT. 

Tristram  now  rode  far  alone  through  a  country 
strange  to  him,  and  void  of  knightly  adventures. 
At  length,  however,  chance  brought  to  him  a  dam- 
sel, who  told  him  disconsolately  that  she  sought  a 
champion  to  cope  with  a  villanous  knight,  who 
was  playing  the  tyrant  over  a  wide  district,  and 
wh6  defied  all  errant  knights. 

"If  you  would  win  great  honor  come  with  me," 
she  said. 

"  To  win  honor  is  the  breath  of  my  life,"  said 
Tristram.     "  Lead  on,  fair  maiden/'   ' 

Then  he  rode  with  her  a  matter  of  six  miles, 
when  good  fortune  brought  them  in  contact  with 
Sir  Gawaine,  who  recognized  the  damsel  as  one 
of  Morgan  le  Fay's.  On  seeing  her  with  an  un- 
known knight  he  at  once  surmised  that. there  was 
some  mischief  afoot. 

"  Fair  sir,"  said  Gawaine,  "  whither  ride  you 
with  that  damsel  ?  " 

"Whither  she  may  lead  me,"  said  Tristram. 
"  That  is  all  I  know  of  the  matter." 

"  Then,  by  my  good  blade,  you  shall  ride  no 
farther  with  her,  for  she  has  a  breeder  of  ill  for 
mistress,  and  means  vou  a  mischief." 

He  drew  his  sword  as  he  spoke,  and  said  in  stern 
accents  to  the  damsel, — 

"  Tell  me  wherefore  and  whither  you  lead  this 
knight,  or  you  shall  die  on  the  spot.     I  know  you. 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT.    313 


minx,  and  the  false-hearted  witch  who  sends  you." 

"  Mercy,  Sir  Gawaine !  ^'  she  cried,  trembling  in 
mortal  fear.  "  Harm  me  not,  and  I  will  tell  you 
all  I  know." 

"  Say  on,  then.  I  crave  not  your  worthless  life, 
but  will  have  it  if  you  tell  me  not  the  truth." 

"  Good  and  valiant  sir,^^  she  answered,  "  Queen 
Morgan  le  Fay,  my  lady,  has  sent  me  and  thirty 
ladies  more,  in  search  of  Sir  Lancelot  or  Sir  Tris- 
tram. Whoever  of  us  shall  first  meet  either  of 
these  knights  is  to  lead  him  to  her  castle,  with  a 
tale  of  worshipful  deeds  to  be  done  and  wrongs 
to  be  righted.  But  thirty  knights  lie  in  wait  in  a 
tower  ready  to  sally  forth  and  destroy  them.^^ 

"  Foul  shame  is  this,"  cried  Gawaine,  "  that  such 
treachery  should  ever  be  devised  by  a  queen^s 
daughter  and  the  sister  of  the  worshipful  King 
Arthur.  Sir  knight,  will  you  stand  with  me,  and 
unmask  the  malice  of  these  thirty  ambushed 
rogues  ?  " 

"  That  shall  I  willingly,"  said  Tristram.  "  Trust 
me  to  do  my  share  to  punish  these  dogs.  Not 
long  since  I  and  a  fellow  met  with  thirty  of  that 
lady's  knights,  who  were  in  ambush  for  Lancelot, 
and  we  gave  them  something  else  to  think  of.  If 
there  be  another  thirty  on  the  same  vile  quest,  I 
am  for  them." 

Then  they  rode  together  towards  the  queen's 
castle,  Gawaine  with  a  shrewd  fancy  that  he  knew 
his  Cornish  companion,  for  he  had  heard  the  story 
of  how  two  knights  had  beaten  thirty.  When  they 
reached  the  castle,  Gawaine  called  in  a  loud  voice, — 

"  Queen   Morgan  le   Fay,  send  out  the  knights 


314  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

whom  you  hold  in  ambush  against  Lancelot  and 
Tristram.  I  know  your  treason,  and  will  tell  of  it 
wherever  I  ride.  I,  Sir  Gawaine,  and  my  fellow 
here,  dare  your  thirty  knights  to  come  out  and 
meet  us  like  men.^' 

"  You  bluster  bravely,  friend  Gawaine,'^  answered 
the  knights.  "  But  we  well  know  that  your  pride 
and  valor  come  from  the  knight  who  is  there  with 
you.  Some  of  us  have  tried  conclusions  with  that 
head-splitter  who  wears  the  arms  of  Cornwall,  and 
have  had  enough  of  him.  You  alone  would  not 
keep  us  long  in  the  castle,  but  we  have  no  fancy 
to  measure  swords  with  him.  So  ride  your  way; 
you  will  get  no  glory  here.'^ 

In  vain  did  Gawaine  berate  them  as  dastards 
and  villains ;  say  what  he  would,  not  a  soul  of  them 
would  set  foot  beyond  the  walls,  and  in  time  the 
two  knights  rode  away  in  a  rage,  cursing  all  cowards 
in  their  beards. 

For  several  days  they  rode  together  without 
adventure.  Then  they  beheld  a  shameful  sight, 
that  roused  their  souls  to  anger.  For  they  saw  a 
villanous  knight,  known  in  those  parts  as  Breuse 
Sans  Pite,  who  chased  a  lady  with  intent  to  kill 
her,  having  slain  her  lover  before.  Many  dastardly 
deeds  of  this  kind  had  he  done,  yet  so  far  had 
escaped  all  retribution  for  his  crimes. 

"  Let  me  ride  alone  against  him,'^  said  Gawaine. 
"  I  know  his  tricks.  He  will  stand  to  face  one  man, 
but  if  he  sees  us  both,  he  will  fly,  and  he  always 
rides  so  swift  a  horse  that  none  can  overtake  him." 

Then  he  rode  at  full  speed  between  the  lady  and 
her  pursuer,  and  cried  loudly, — 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT.    315 


"  False  knight  and  murderer,  leave  that  lady  and 
try  your  tricks  on  me/^ 

Sir  Breuse,  seeing  but  one,  put  his  spear  in  rest 
and  rode  furiously  against  Gawaine,  whom  he  struck 
so  strong  a  blow  that  he  flung  him  prostrate  to  the 
ground.  Then,  with  deadly  intent,  he  forced  his 
horse  to  trample  over  him  twenty  times  backward 
and  forward,  thinking  to  destroy  him.  But  when 
Tristram  saw  this  villany  he  broke  from  his  covert 
and  rushed  in  fury  upon  the  murderous  wretch. 

But  Breuse  Sans  Pite  had  met  with  Tristram 
before,  and  knew  him  by  his  arms.  Therefore  he 
turned  his  horse  and  fled  at  full  speed,  hotly  pur- 
sued by  the  furious  knight.  I^ong  he  chased  him, 
full  of  thirst  for  revenge,  but  the  well-horsed  villain 
rode  at  such  a  pace  that  he  left  him  in  the  distance. 
At  length  Tristram,  despairing  of  overtaking  him, 
and  seeing  an  inviting  forest  spring,  drew  up  his 
horse  and  rode  thither  for  rest  and  refreshment. 

Dismounting  and  tying  his  horse  to  a  tree,  he 
washed  his  face  and  hands  and  took  a  deep  and 
grateful  draught  of  the  cool  water.  Then  laying 
himself  to  rest  by  the  spring  side,  he  fell  sound 
asleep. 

While  he  lay  there  good  fortune  brought  to  that 
forest  spring  a  lady  who  had  sought  him  far  and 
wide.  This  was  Dame  Bragwaine,  the  lady  com- 
panion of  La  Belle  Isolde,  who  bore  him  letters 
from  the  queen.  She  failed  to  recognize  the  sleep- 
ing knight,  but  at  first  sight  knew  his  noble  charger. 
Passe  Brewel,  which  Tristram  had  ridden  for  vears. 
So  she  seated  herself  gladly  by  the  knight,  and 
waited  patiently  till  he  awoke.     Then  she  saluted 


\ 


316  HOW  TRISTRAM  QAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

him,  and  he  her,  for  he  failed  not  to  recognize  his 
old  acquaintance. 

"  What  of  my  dear  lady,  La  Belle  Isolde  ?  "  he 
asked,  eagerly. 

"  She  is  well,  and  has  sent  me  to  seek  you.  Far 
and  wide  have  I  sought  for  you  through  the  land, 
and  glad  enough  am  I  to  hand  you  the  letters  I 
bear.^' 

"  Not  so  glad  as  I  am  to  receive  them,"  said 
Tristram,  joyfully,  taking  them  from  her  hand 
and  opening  them  with  eager  haste,  while  his  soul 
overflowed  with  joy  as  he  read  Isolde's  words  of 
love  and  constancy,  though  with  them  was  mingled 
many  a  piteous  complaint. 

"Come  with  me,  Dame  Bragwaine,"  he  said. 
"  I  am  riding  to  the  tournament  to  be  held  at  the 
Castle  of  Maidens.  There  will  I  answer  these  let- 
ters, and  to  have  you  there,  to  tell  the  tale  of  my 
doings  to  my  Lady  Isolde,  will  give  me  double 
strength  and  valor.'' 

To  this  Dame  Bragwaine  willingly  agreed,  and 
mounting  they  rode  till  they  came  to  the  castle  of 
a  hospitable  old  knight,  near  where  the  tournament 
was  to  be  held.  Here  they  were  given  shelter  and 
entertainment. 

As  they  sat  at  supper  with  Sir  Pellounes,  their 
ancient  host,  he  told  them  much  of  the  great  tour- 
nament that  was  at  hand,  among  other  things  that 
Lancelot  would  be  there,  with  thirty-two  knights  of 
his  kindred,  each  of  whom  would  bear  a  shield  with 
the  arms  of  Cornwall. 

In  the  midst  of  their  conversation  a  messenorer 
entered,  who  told  Pellounes  that  his  son,  Persidos 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT.         317 

de  Bloise,  had  come  home,  whereupon  the  old  knight 
held  up  his  hands  and  thanked  God,  telling  Tris- 
tram that  he  had  not  seen  his  son  for  two  years. 

'^  I  know  him,^'  said  Tristram,  "  and  a  good  and 
worthy  knight  he  is." 

On  the  next  morning,  when  Tristram  came  into 
the  castle  hajl  clad  in  his  house  attire,  he  met  with 
Persides,  similarly  unarmed,  and  they  saluted  each 
other  courteously. 

"  My  father  tells  me  that  you  are  of  Cornwall," 
said  Persides.  "  I  jousted  there  once  before  King 
Mark,  and  fortune  helped  me  to  overthrow  ten 
knights.  But  Tristram  de  Lyonesse  overthrew  me 
and  took  my  lady  from  me.  This  I  have  not  for- 
gotten, and  I  will  repay  him  for  it  yet." 

"  You  hate  Sir  Tristram,  then  ?  Do  you  think 
that  will  trouble  him  much,  and  that  he  is  not  able 
to  withstand  vour  malice  ?  " 

"  He  is  a  better  knight  than  I,  that  I  admit. 
But  for  all  that  I  owe  him  no  good  will." 

As  thus  they  stood  talking  at  a  bay  window  of 
the  castle,  they  saw  many  knights  ride  by  on  their 
way  to  the  tournament.  Among  these  Tristram 
marked  a  strongly-built  warrior  mounted  on  a  great 
black  horse,  and  bearing  a  black  shield. 

"What  knight  is  that?"  he  asked.  "He  looks 
like  a  strong  and  able  one." 

"  He  is  one  of  the  best  in  the  world,"  said  Per- 
sides.    "  I  know  him  well." 

"  Is  it  Sir  Lancelot  ?  " 

"  ^o,  no.  It  is  Palamides,  an  unchristened 
Saracen,  but  a  noble  maii." 

"  Palamides !  I  should  know  him  too,  but  his 
arms  deceived  me." 


318  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

As  they  continued  to  look  they  saw  many  of  the 
country  people  salute  the  black  knight.  Some  time 
afterwards  a  squire  came  to  Pellounes,  the  lord  of 
the  castle,  and  told  him  that  a  fierce  combat  had 
taken  place  in  the  road  some  distance  in  advance, 
and  that  a  knight  with  a  black  shield  had  smitten 
down  thirteen  others.  He  was  still  ithere,  ready 
for  any  who  might  wish  to  meet  him,  and  holding 
a  tournament  of  his  own  in  the  highway. 

"  On  my  faith,  that  is  Palamides  I  "  said  Tris- 
tram. "The  worthy  fellow  must  be  brimful  of 
fight.  Fair  brother,  let  us  cast  on  our  cloaks  and 
see  the  play." 

"  Not  I,"  said  Persides.  "  Let  us  not  go  like 
courtiers  there,  but  like  men  ready  to  withstand 
their  enemies." 

"  As  you  will.  To  fight  or  to  look  on  is  all  one 
to  me." 

Then  they  armed  and  rode  to  the  spot  where 
so  many  knights  had  tried  their  fortune  before 
the  tournament.  When  Palamides  saw  them  ap- 
proach, he  said  to  his  squire, — 

"  Go  to  yonder  knight  with  a  green  shield  and 
in  it  a  lion  of  gold.  Tell  him  that  I  request  a 
passage-at-arms  with  him,  and  that  my  name  is 
Palamides." 

Persides,  who  wore  the  shield  thus  described,  did 
not  hesitate  to  accept  the  challenge,  and  rode  against 
Palamides,  but  quickly  found  himself  felled  to  the 
earth  by  his  powerful  antagonist.  Then  Tristram 
made  ready  to  avenge  his  comrade,  but  before  he 
could  put  his  spear  in  rest  Palamides  rode  upon 
him  like  a  thunderbolt,  taking  him  at  advantage, 
and  hurling  him  over  his  horse's  tail. 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT.    319 

At  this  Tristram  sprang  up  in  furious  anger  and 
sore  shame,  and  leaped  into  his  saddle. 

Then  he  sent  Gouvernail  to  Palamides,  accusing 
him  of  treachery,  and  demanding  a  joust  on  equal 
terms. 

"  Not  so,''  answered  Palamides.  "  I  know  that 
knight  better  than  he  fancies,  and  will  not  meet 
him  now.  But  if  he  wants  satisfaction  he  may 
have  it  to-morrow  at  the  Castle  of  Maidens,  where 
I  will  be  ready  to  meet  him  in  the  lists." 

As  Tristram  stood  fretting  and  fuming  in  wrath- 
ful spite,  Dinadan,  who  had  seen  the  affair,  came 
up,  and  seeing  the  anger  of  the  Cornish  knight, 
restrained  his  inclination  to  jest. 

'^  Here  it  is  proved,'^  he  said,  "  that  a  man  can 
never  be  so  strong  but  he  may  meet  hi§  equal. 
Never  was  man  so  wise  but  that  his  brain  might 
fail  him,  and  a  passing  good  rider  is  he  that  never 
had  a  fall." 

"  Let  be,"  cried  Tristram,  angrily.  "  You  are 
readier  with  your  tongue  than  with  your  sword, 
friend  Dinadan.  I  will  revenge  myself,  and  you 
shall  see  it." 

As  they  stood  thus  talking  there  came  by  them 
a  likely  knight,  who  rode  soberly  and  heavily, 
bearing  a  black  shield. 

What  knight  is  that  ?  "    asked  Tristram. 
It  is   Sir  Briant  of  North  Wales,"  answered 
Persides.     "  I  know  him  well." 

Just  behind  him  came  a  knight  who  bore  a  shield 
with  the  arms  of  Cornwall,  and  as  he  rode  up  he 
sent  a  squire  to  Sir  Briant,  whom  he  required 
to  joust  with  him. 


320  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

"  Let  it  be  so,  if  he  will  have  it  so/'  said  Briant. 
*^Bid  him  make  ready." 

Then  they  rode  together,  and  the  Welsh  knight 
got  a  severe  fall. 

'^  What  Cornish  knight  is  this  ?  "  asked  Tristram. 

"  None,  as  I  fancy,"  said  Dinadan.  "  I  warrant 
he  is  of  King  Ban's  blood,  which  counts  the  noblest 
knights  of  the  world." 

Then  two  other  knights  came  up  and  challenged 
him  with  the  Cornish  shield,  and  in  a  trice  he  smote 
them  both  down  with  one  spear. 

"  By  my  faith,"  said  Tristram,  "  he  is  a  good 
knight,  whoever  he  be,  and  I  never  saw  one  yet 
that  rode  so  well." 

Then  the  king  of  Northgalis  rode  to  Palamides, 
and  prayed  him  for  his  sake  to  joust  with  that 
knight  who  had  just  overturned  two  Welsh  knights. 

"  I  beg  you  ask  me  not,"  said  Palamides.  "  I 
have  had  my  full  share  of  jousting  already,  and 
wish  to  keep  fresh  for  the  tournament  to-morrow." 

"  One  ride  only,  for  the  honor  of  North  Wales," 
beseeched  the  king. 

"Well,  if  vou  will  have  it  so;  but  T  have  seen 
many  a  man  have  a  fall  at  his  own  request." 

Then  he  sent  a  squire  to  the  victor  knight,  and 
challenged  him  to  a  joust. 

"  Fair  fellow,"  said  the  knight,  "  tell  me  your 
lord's  name." 

"  It  is  Sir  Palamides." 

*^  He  is  well  met,  then.  I  have  seen  no  knight 
in  seven  years  with  whom  I  would  rather  tilt." 

Then  the  two  knights  took  spears  from  their 
squires,  and  rode  apart. 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  THE  TOURNAMENT.    321 

"  Now/^  said  Dinadan,  "  you  will  see  Palamides 
come  off  the  victor/^ 

"  I  doubt  it/'  answered  Tristram.  "  I  wager  the 
knight  with  the  Cornish  shield  will  give  him  a  fall." 

"  That  I  do  not  believe/'  said  Dinadan. 

As  they  spoke,  the  two  knights  put  spears  in  rest, 
and  spurred  their  horses,  riding  hotly  together. 
Palamides  broke  a  spear  on  his  antagonist,  without 
moving  him  in  his  saddle;  but  on  his  side  he 
received  such  a  blow  that  it  broke  through  his 
shield  and  hauberk,  and  would  have  slain  him  out- 
right had  he  not  fallen. 

"  How  now  ? "  cried  Tristram.  "  Am  I  not 
right?  I  knew  by  the  way  those  knights  ride 
which  would  fall." 

The  unknown  knight  now  rode  away  and  sought 
a  well  in  the  forest  edge,  for  he  was  hot  and  thirsty 
with  the  fray.  This  was  seen  by  the  king  of  North- 
galis,  who  sent  twelve  knights  after  him  to  do  him 
a  inischief,  so  that  he  would  not  be  able  to  appear 
at  the  tournament  and  win  the  victory. 

They  came  upon  him  so  suddenly  that  he  had 
scarcely  time  to  put  on  his  helm  and  spring  to  his 
horse's  back  before  thev  assailed  him  in  mass. 

"  Ye  villains  !  "  he  cried,  "  twelve  to  one !  And 
taking  a  man  unawares !  You  want  a  lesson,  and 
by  my  faith  you  shall  have  it." 

Then  spurring  his  horse  he  rode  on  them  so 
fiercely  that  he  smote  one  knight  through  the  body, 
breaking  his  spear  in  doing  so.  Now  he  drew  his 
sword  and  smote  stoutly  to  right  and  left,  killing 
three  others  and  wounding  more. 

Dogs  and  dastards !    know  you  me  not  ? "    he 

21 


a 


322  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

cried  in  a  voice  of  thunder.  "  My  name  is  Lancelot 
du  Lake.  Here^s  for  you,  cowards  and  traitors ! ' ' 
But  the  name  he  had  shouted  was  enough.  Those 
who  were  still  able,  fled,  followed  by  the  angry 
knight.  By  hard  riding  they  escaped  his  wrath, 
and  he,  hot  and  furious,  turned  aside  to  a  lodging 
where  he  designed  to  spend  the  night.  In  conse- 
quence of  his  hard  labor  in  this  encounter  Lancelot 
fought  not  on  the  first  day  of  the  tournament,  but 
sat  beside  King  Arthur,  who  had  come  hither  from 
Camelot  to  witness  the  passage-at-arms. 


CHAPTEK  III. 

AT  THE  CASTLE  OF  MAIDENS. 

When  came  the  dawn  of  the  first  day  of  the 
tournament,  many  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  court 
took  their  seats  on  a  high  gallery,  shaded  by  a  rich 
canopy  of  parti-colored  silk,  while  in  the  centre 
of  the  gallery  sat  King  Arthur  and  Queen  Guenever, 
and,  by  the  side  of  the  king,  Lancelot  du  Lake. 
Many  other  noble  lords  and  ladies  of  the  surround- 
ing country  occupied  the  adjoining  seats,  while 
round  the  circle  that  closed  in  the  lists  sat  hosts 
of  citizens  and  country  people,  all  eager  for  the 
warlike  sports. 

Knights  in  glittering  armor  stood  in  warlike 
groups  outside  the  entrance  gates,  where  rose  many 
pavilions  of  red  and  white  silk,  each  with  its  flutter- 


AT    THE   CASTLE   OF   MAIDENS.  323 

ing  pennon,  and  great  war-horses  that  impatiently 
champed  the  bit,  while  the  bright  steel  heads  of  the 
lances  shone  like  star-points  in  the  sun. 

Within  the  lists  the  heralds  and  pursuivants 
busied  themselves,  while  cheery  calls,  and  bugle- 
blasts,  and  the  livelv  chat  of  the  assembled  multi- 
tude  filled  the  air  with  joyous  sound. 

Tristram  de  Lyonesse  still  dwelt  with  the  old 
knight  Sir  Pellounes,  in  company  with  Sir  Persides, 
whom  he  yet  kept  in  ignorance  of  his  name.  And 
as  it  was  his  purpose  to  fight  that  day  unknown, 
he  ordered  Gouvernail,  his  squire,  to  procure  him 
a  black-faced  shield,  without  emblem  or  device  of 
any  kind. 

So  accoutred,  he  and  Persides  mounted  in  the 
early  morn  and  rode  together  to  the  lists,  where 
the  parties  of  King  Carados  and  the  king  of  North- 
galis  were- already  being  formed.  Tristram  and  his 
companion  joined  the  side  of  Carados,  the  Scottish 
king,  and  hardly  had  they  ridden  to  their  place 
when  King  Arthur  gave  the  signal  for  the  onset, 
the  bugles  loudly  sounded,  and  tBe  two  long  lines 
of  knights  rode  together  with  a  crash  as  of  two 
thunder-clouds  meeting  in  mid-air. 

Many  knights  and  horses  went  to  the  earth  in 
that  mad  onset,  and  many  others  who  had  broken 
their  spears  drew  their  swords  and  so  kept  up  the 
fray.  The  part  of  the  line  where  Tristram  and 
Persides  was  drove  back  the  king  of  Xorthgalis 
and  his  men,  with  many  noble  knights  who  fought 
on  the  side  of  the  Welsh  king.  But  through  the 
rush  and  roar  of  the  onset  there  pushed  forward 
Bleoberis  de  Ganis  and  Gaheris,  who  hurled  Per- 


324  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

sides  to  the  earth,  where  he  was  almost  slain,  for 
as  he  lay  there  helpless  more  than  forty  horsemen 
rode  over  him  in  the  fray. 

Seeing  this,  and  what  valiant  deeds  the  two 
knights  did,  Tristram  marvelled  who  they  were. 
But  perceiving  the  danger  in  which  his  comrade 
Persides  lay,  he  rushed  to  the  rescue  with  such  force 
that  Gaheris  was  hurled  headlong  from  his  horse. 
Then  Bleoberis  in  a  rage  put  his  spear  in  rest  and 
rode  furiously  against  Tristram,  but  he  was  met  in 
mid-career,  and  flung  from  his  saddle  by  the  resist- 
less spear  of  the  Cornish  knight. 

The  king  with  the  hundred  knights  now  rode 
angrily  forward,  pressed  back  the  struggling  line, 
and  horsed  Gaheris  and  Bleoberis.  Then  began  a 
fierce  struggle,  in  which  Bleoberis  and  Tristram 
did  many  deeds  of  knightly  skill  and  valor. 

As  the  violent  combat  continued,  Dinadan,  who 
was  on  the  other  side,  rode  against  Tristram,  not 
knowing  him,  and  got  such  a  buffet  that  he  swooned 
in  his  saddle.  He  recovered  in  a  minute,  however, 
and,  riding  to  his  late  companion,  said  in  a  low 
voice, — 

"  Sir  knight,  is  this  the  way  you  serve  an  old 
comrade,  masking  under  a  black  shield?  I  know 
you  now  better  than  you  deem.  I  will  not  reveal 
your  disguise,  but  by  my  troth  T  vow  J  will  never 
try  buffets  with  you  again,  and,  if  I  keep  my  wits, 
sword  of  yours  shall  never  come  near  my  head- 
piece.^' 

As  Dinadan  withdrew  to  repair  damages,  Bleo- 
beris rode  against  Tristram,  who  gave  him  such  a 
furious  sword-blow  on  the  helm  that  he  bowed  his 


AT   THE    CASTLE    OF   MAIDENS.  325 

head  to  the  saddle.  Then  Tristram  caught  him 
by  the  helm,  jerked  him  from  his  horse,  and  flung 
him  down  under  the  feet  of  the  steed. 

This  ended  the  fray,  for  at  that  moment  Arthur 
bade  the  heralds  to  blow  to  lodging,  and  the  knights 
who  still  held  saddle  sheathed  their  swords.  Tris- 
tram thereupon  departed  to  his  pavilion  and  Dina- 
dan  with  him. 

But  Arthur,  and  many  of  those  with  him,  won- 
dered who  was  the  knight  with  the  black  shield, 
who  had  with  sword  and  spear  done  such  wondrous 
deeds.  Many  opinions  were  given,  and  some  sus- 
pected him  of  being  Tristram,  but  held  their  peace. 
To  him  the  judges  awarded  the  prize  of  the  day's 
combat,  though  they  named  him  only  the  knight 
of  the  black  shield,  not  knowing  by  what  other 
name  to  call  him. 

When  the  second  day  of  the  tournament  dawned, 
and  the  knights  prepared  for  the  combat,  Pala- 
tnides,  who  had  fought  under  Northgalis,  now 
joined  King  Arthur^s  party,  that  led  by  Carados, 
and  sent  to  Tristram  to  know  his  name. 

"  As  to  that,^^  answered  Tristram,  "  tell  Sir 
Palamides  that  he  shall  not  know  till  I  have  broken 
two  spears  with  him.  But  you  may  tell  him  that 
I  am  the  same  knight  that  he  smote  down  unfairly 
the  day  before  the  tournament,  and  that  I  owe  him 
as  shrewd  a  turn.  So  whichever  side  he  takes  I 
will  take  the  opposite." 

"  Sir,^^  said  the  messenger,  ^^  he  will  be  on  King 
Arthur's  side,  in  company  with  the  noblest  knights.^' 

"  Then  I  will  fight  for  Northgalis,  though  yester- 
dav  I  held  with  Carados." 


326  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

When  King  Arthur  blew  to  field  and  the  fray 
began,  King  Carados  opened  the  day  by  a  joust  with 
the  king  with  the  hundred  knights,  who  gave  him 
a  sore  fall.  Around  him  there  grew  up  a  fierce 
combat,  till  a  troop  of  Arthur's  knights  pushed 
briskly  in  and  bore  back  the  opposite  party,  rescuing 
Carados  from  under  the  horses'  feet.  While  the 
fight  went  on  thus  in  one  part  of  the  field,  Tris- 
tram, in  jet-black,  armor,  pressed  resistlessly  for- 
ward in  another  part,  and  dealt  so  roughly  and 
grimly  with  Arthur's  knights  that  not  a  man  of 
them  could  withstand  him. 

At  length  he  fell  among  the  fellowship  of  King 
Ban,  all  of  whom  bore  Cornish  shields,  and  here 
he  smote  right  and  left  with  such  fury  and  might 
that  cries  of  admiration  for  his  gallant  bearing 
went  up  from  lords  and  ladies,  citizens  and  churls. 
But  he  would  have  had  the  worse  through  force 
of  numbers  had  not  the  king  with  the  hundred 
knights  come  to  his  rescue,  and  borne  him  away 
from  the  press  of  his  assailants,  who  were  crowding 
upon  him  in  irresistible  strength. 

Hardly  had  Tristram  escaped  from  this  peril  than 
he  saw  another  group  of  about  forty  knights,  with 
Kay  the  seneschal  at  their  head.  On  them  he  rode 
like  a  fury,  smote  Kay  from  his  horse,  and  fared 
among  them  all  like  a  greyhound  among  conies. 

At  this  juncture  Lancelot,  who  had  hitherto  taken 
little  part,  met  a  knight  retiring  from  the  lists  with 
a  sore  wound  in  the  head. 

"  Who  hurt  you  so  badly  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  That  knight  with  the  black  shield,  who  is 
making  havoc  wherever  he  goes,"  was  the  answer. 


AT  THE  CASTLE  OF  MAIDENS.  327 

"  I  may  curse  the  time  I  'ever  faced  him,  for  he  is 
more  devil  than  mortal  man." 

Lancelot  at  these  words  drew  his  sword  and 
advanced  to  meet  Tristram,  and  as  he  rode  forward 
saw  the  Cornish  champion  hurtling  through  a  press 
of  foes,  bringing  down  one  with  nearly  every  stroke 
of  his  sword. 

"  A  fellow  of  marvellous  prowess  he,  whoever  he 
be,"  said  Lancelot.  "If  I  set  upon  this  knight 
after  all  his  heavy  labor,  I  will  shame  myself  more 
than  him."     And  he  put  up  his  sword. 

Then  the  king  with  the  hundred  knights,  with  his 
following,  and  a  hundred  more  of  the  Welsh  party, 
set  upon  the  twenty  of  Lancelot's  kin,  and  a  fearful 
fray  began,  for  the  twenty  held  together  like  wild 
boars,  none  failing  the  others,  and  faced  the  odds 
against  them  without  yielding  a  step. 

When  Tristram,  who  had  for  the  moment  with- 
drawn, beheld  their  noble  bearing,  he  marvelled 
at  their  valor,  for  he  saw  by  their  steadfastness  that 
they  would  die  together  rather  than  leave  the  field. 

"  Valiant  and  noble  must  be  he  who  has  such 
knights  for  his  kin,"  he  said,  meaning  Lancelot; 
"and  likely  to  be  a  worthy  man  is  he  who  leads 
such  knights  as  these." 

Then  he  rode  to  the  king  with  the  hundred 
knights  and  said, — 

"  Sir,  leave  off  fighting  with  these  twenty  knights. 
You  can  win  no  honor  from  them,  you  being  so 
many  and  they  so  few.  I  can  see  by  their  bearing 
that  thev  will  die  rather  than  leave  the  field,  and 
that  will  bring  you  no  glory.  If  this  one  sided 
fray  goes  on  I  will  join  them  and  give  them  what 
help  I  can." 


328  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


<( 


You  shall  not  do  sO/'  said  the  king.  "  You 
speak  in  knightly  courtesy,  and  I  will  withdraw 
my  men  at  your  request.  I  know  how  courage 
favors  courage,  and  like  draws  to  like." 

Then  the  king  called  off  his  knights,  and  with- 
drew from  the  combat  with  Lancelot's  kindred. 

Meanwhile  Lancelot  was  watching  for  an  oppor- 
tunity to  meet  Tristram  and  hail  him  as  a  fellow  in 
heart  and  hand,  but  before  he  could  do  so  Tristram, 
Dinadan,  and  Gouvernail  suddenly  left  the  lists 
and  rode  into  the  forest,  no  man  perceiving  whither 
they  had  gone. 

Then  Arthur  blew  to  lodging,  and  gave  the  prize 
of  the  day  to  the  king  of  Northgalis,  as  the  true 
champion  of  the  tournament  was  on  his  side  and 
had  vanished.  Lancelot  rode  hither  and  thither, 
vainly  seeking  him,  while  a  cry  that  might  have  been 
heard  two  miles  off  went  up :  "  The  knight  with  the 
black  shield  has  won  the  day !  '^ 

"  Alas,  where  has  that  knight  gone ! "  said 
Arthur.  "  It  is  a  shame  that  those  in  the  field  have 
let  him  thus  vanish.  With  gentleness  and  cour- 
tesy they  might  have  brought  him  to  me  at  the 
Castle  of  Maidens,  where  I  should  have  been 
glad  to  show  him  the  highest  honor." 

Then  he  went  to  the  knights  of  his  party  and 
comforted  them  for  their  discomfiture. 

Be  not  disma3'ed,  my  fair  fellows/'  he  said, 

though  you  have  lost  the  field,  and  many  of  you 
are  the  worst  in  body  and  mind.  Be  of  good  cheer, 
for  to-morrow  we  fight  again.  How  the  day  will 
go  I  cannot  say,  but  I  will  be  in  the  lists  with 
you,  and  lend  you  what  aid  is  in  my  arm." 


yy 


AT  THE  CASTLE  OF  MAIDENS.        329 

During  that  day's  fight  Dame  Bragwaine  had  sat 
near  Queen  Guenever,  observing  Tristram's  val- 
orous deeds.  But  when  the  queen  asked  her  why 
she  had  come  thither,  she  would  not  tell  the  real 
reason,  but  said  only, — 

"  Madam,  I  came  for  no  other  cause  than  that 
my  lady.  La  Belle  Isolde,  sent  me  to  inquire  after 
your  welfare." 

After  the  fray  was  done  she  took  leave  of  the 
queen  and  rode  into  the  forest  in  search  of  Sir 
Tristram.  As  she  went  onward  she  heard  a  great 
cry,  and  sent  her  squire  to  learn  what  it  might 
mean.  He  quickly  came  to  a  forest  fountain,  and 
here  he  found  a  knight  bound  to  a  tree,  crying 
out  like  a  madman,  while  his  horse  and  harness 
stood  by.  When  he  saw  the  squire,  he  started  so 
furiously  that  he  broke  his  bonds,  and  then  ran 
after  him,  sword  in  hand,  as  if  to  slay  him.  The 
squire  at  this  spurred  his  horse  and  rode  swiftly 
back  to  Dame  Bragwaine,  whom  he  told  of  his 
adventure. 

Soon  afterwards  she  found  Tristratn,  who  had 
set  up  his  pavilion  in  the  forest,  and  told  him  of 
the  incident. 

"  Then,  on  my  head,  there  is  mischief  here 
afloat,"  said  Tristram;  "some  good  knight  has 
gone  distracted." 

Taking  his  horse  and  sword  he  rode  to  the  place, 
and  there  he  found  the  knight  complaining  woefully. 

"  What  misfortune  has  befallen  me  ? "  he  la- 
mented ;  "  I,  woeful  Palamides,  who  am  defiled 
with  falsehood  and  treason  through  Sir  Bors  and 
Sir  Hector  !     Alas,  why  live  I  so  long  ?  " 


330  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

Then  he  took  his  sword  in  his  hands,  and  with 
many  strange  signs  and  movements  flung  it  into 
the  fountain.  This  done,  he  wailed  bitterly  and 
wrung  his  hands,  but  at  the  end  he  ran  to  his  mid- 
dle in  the  water  and  sought  again  for  his  sword. 
Tristram,  seeing  this,  ran  upon  him  and  clasped 
him  in  his  arms,  fearing  he  would  kill  himself. 

"  Who  are  you  that  holds  me  so  tightly  ?  ^'  said 
Palamides. 

"  I  am  a  man  of  this  forest,  and  mean  you  no 
harm,  but  would  save  you  froni  injury.^^ 

"  Alas ! ''  said  the  knight,  "  I  shall  never  win 
honor  where  Sir  Tristram  is.  Where  he  is  not, 
only  Lancelot  or  Lamorak  can  win  from  me  the 
prize.     More  than  once  he  has  put  me  to  the  worse." 

"  What  would  you  do  if  you  had  him  ?  '^ 

"  I  would  fight  him  and  ease  my  heart.  And 
yet,  sooth  to  say,  he  is  a  gentle  and  noble  knight.'^ 
Will  you  go  with  me  to  my  lodging  ?  " 
No;  I  will  go  to  the  king  with  the  hundred 
knights.  He  rescued  me  from  Bors  and  Hector, 
or  they  had  "slain  me  treacherously.'^ 

But  by  kind  words  Tristram  got  him  to  his  pavil- 
ion, where  he  did  what  he  could  to  cheer  him.  But 
Palamides  could  not  sleep  for  anguish  of  soul,  and 
rose  before  dawn  and  secretly  left  the  tent,  making 
his  way  to  the  pavilions  of  Gaheris  and  Sagramour 
le  Desirous,  who  had  been  his  companions  in  the 
tournament. 

Not  far  had  the  next  day's  sun  risen  in  the  east- 
ern sky,  when  King  Arthur  bade  the  heralds  blow 
the  call  to  the  lists,  and  with  warlike  haste  the 
knights  came  crowding  in  to  the  last  day  of  the 
well-fought  tournament. 


6i 


AT  THE  CASTLE  OF  MAIDENS.        331 

Fiercely  began  the  fray,  King  Carados  and  his 
ally,  the  king  of  Ireland,  being  smitten  from  their 
horses  early  in  the  day.  Then  came  in  Palamides 
full  of  fury,  and  made  sad  work  among  his  foes, 
being  known  to  all  by  his  indwited  shield. 

But  this  day  King  Arthur,  as  he  had  promised, 
rode  in  shining  armor  into  the  field,  and  fought 
so  valorously  that  the  king  of  Northgalis  and  his 
party  had  much  the  worse  of  the  combat. 

While  the  fight  thus  went  on  in  all  its  fury, 
Tristram  rode  in,  still  bearing  his  black  shield. 
Encountering  Palamides,  he  gave  him  such  a  thrust 
that  he  was  driven  over  his  horse's  croup.  Then 
King  Arthur  cried, — 

"  Knight  with  the  black  shield,  make  ready  for 
me!'' 

But  the  king  met  with  the  same  fate  from  Tris- 
tram's spear  that  Palamides  had  done,  and  was 
hurled  to  the  earth.  Seeing  this,  a  rush  of  the 
knights  of  his  party  drove  back  the  foe,  and  Arthur 
and  Palamides  were  helped  to  their  saddles  again. 

And  now  the  king,  his  heart  burning  with  war- 
like fury,  rushed  fiercely  on  Tristram,  and  struck 
him  so  furious  a  blow  that  he  was  hurled  from 
his  horse.  As  he  lay  there  Palamides  spurred  upon 
him  in  a  violent  rage,  and  sought  to  override  him 
as  he  was  rising  to  his  feet.  But  Tristram  saw  his 
purpose  and  sprang  aside.  As  Palamides  rode 
past  he  wrathfully  caught  him  by  the  arm  and 
pulled  him  from  his  horse. 

"  Sword  to  sword  let  it  be !  "  cried  Tristram. 

Palamides,  nothing  loth,  drew  his  weapon,  and 
so  fierce  a  combat  began  in  the  midst  of  the  arena 


332  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

that  lords  and  ladies  alike  stood  in  their  seats  in 
eagerness  to  behold  it.  But  at  the  last  Tristram 
struck  Palamides  three  mighty  strokes  on  the  helm, 
crying  with  each  stroke,  "  Take  this  for  Sir  Tris- 
tram's sake ! " 

So  fierce  were  the  blows  that  Palamides  was  felled 
to  the  earth.  Then  the  king  with  the  hundred 
knights  dashed  forward  and  brought  Tristram  his 
horse.  Palamides  was  horsed  at  the  same  time,  and 
with  burning  ire  he  rushed  upon  Tristram,  spear  in 
rest,  before  he  could  make  ready  to  meet  him.  But 
Tristram  lightly  avoided  the  spear,  and,  enraged  at 
his  repeated  treachery,  he  caught  him  with  both 
hands  by  the  neck  as  his  horse  bore  him  past,  tore 
him  clean  from  the  saddle,  and  carried  him  thus 
ten  spears'  length  across  the  field  before  he  let  him 
fall. 

At  that  moment  King  Arthur  spurred  upon  the 
Cornish  champion,  sword  in  hand,  and  Tristram 
fixed  his  spear  to  meet  him,  but  with  a  sword-blow 
Arthur  cut  the  spear  in  two,  and  then  dealt  him 
three  or  four  vigorous  strokes  before  he  could  draw. 
But  at  the  last  Tristram  drew  his  sword  and  assailed 
the  king  with  equal  energy. 

This  battle  continued  not  long,  for  the  press  of 
battling  knights  forced  the  combatants  asunder. 
Then  Tristram  rode  hither  and  thither,  striking 
and  parrying,  so  that  that  day  he  smote  down  in 
all  eleven  of  the  good  knights  of  King  Ban's  blood, 
while  all  in  seats  and  gallery  shouted  in  loud  acclaim 
for  the  mighty  warrior  with  the  black  shield. 

This  cry  met  the  ears  of  Lancelot,  who  was 
engaged  in  another  part  of  the  field.     Then  he  got 


AT  THE  CASTLE  OF  MAIDENS.        333 

a  spear  and  came  towards  the  cry.     Seeing  Tristram 
standing  without  an  antagonist,  he  cried  out, —     ' 

"  Knight  with  the  black  shield,  well  and  worthily 
have  you  done ;  now  make  ready  to  joust  with  me/' 

When  Tristram  heard  this  he  put  his  spear  in 
rest,  and  both  with  lowered  heads  rode  together 
with  lightning  speed.  Tristram's  spear  broke  into 
fragments  on  Lancelot's  shield;  but  Lancelot,  by 
ill-fortune,  smote  him  in  the  side,  wounding  him 
deeply.  He  kept  his  saddle,  however,  and,  drawing 
his  sword,  rushed  upon  Lancelot  and  gave  him  three 
such  strokes  that  fire  flew  from  his  helm,  and  he 
was  forced  to  lower  his  head  towards  his  saddle- 
bow. This  done,  Tristram  left  the  field,  for  he  felt 
as  if  he  would  die.  But  Dinadan  espied  him  and 
followed  him  into  the  forest. 

After  Tristram  left  the  lists,  Lancelot  fought  like 
a  man  beside  himself,  many  a  noble  knight  going 
down  before  his  spear  and  sword.  King  Arthur, 
seeing  against  what  odds  he  fought,  came  quickly 
to  his  aid,  with  the  knights  of  his  own  kindred, 
and  in  the  end  they  won  the  day  against  the  king  of 
Northgalis  and  his  followers.  So  the  prize  was 
adjudged  to  Lancelot. 

But  neither  for  king,  queen,  nor  knights  would 
he  accept  it,  and  when  the  cry  was  raised  by  the 
heralds, — 

"  Sir  Lancelot,  Sir  Lancelot  has  won  the  field  this 
day !  "  he  bade  them  change,  and  cry  instead, — 

"  The  knight  with  the  black  shield  has  won  the 
day." 

But  the  estates  and  the  commonalty  cried  out 
together, — 


334  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

"  Sir  Lancelot  has  won  the  field,  whoever  say 
nay ! " 

This  filled  Lancelot  with  shame  and  anger,  and 
he  rode  with  a  lowering  brow  to  King  Arthur,  to 
whom  he  cried, — 

"The  knight  with  the  black  shield  is  the  hero 
of  the  lists.  For  three  days  he  held  against  all, 
till  he  got  that  unlucky  wound.  The  prize,  I  say, 
is  his.'' 

"  Sir  Tristram  it  is,"  said  the  king.  "  I  heard 
him  shout  his  name  three  times  when  he  gave  those 
mighty  strokes  to  Palamides.  Never  better  nor 
nobler  knight  took  spear  or  sword  in  hand.  He 
was  hurt  indeed ;  but  when  two  noble  warriors 
encounter  one  must  have  the  worst." 

"  Had  I  known  him  I  would  not  have  hurt  him 
for  all  my  father's  lands,"  said  Lancelot.  "  Only 
lately  he  risked  his  life  for  me,  when  he  fought 
with  thirty  knights,  with  no  help  but  Dinadan. 
This  is  poor  requital  for  his  noble  service." 

Then  they  sought  Tristram  in  the  forest,  but  in 
vain.  They  found  the  place  where  his  pavilion 
had  been  pitched,  but  it  was  gone  and  all  trace  of 
its  owner  vanished.  Thereupon  they  returned  to 
the  Castle  of  Maidens,  where  for  three  days  was 
held  high  feast  and  frolic,  and  where  all  who  came 
were  warmly  welcomed  by  King  Arthur  and  Queen 
Guenever. 


THE  QUEST  OF  THE  TEN  KNIGHTB.  335 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

THE    QUEST   OF   THE    TEN    KNIGHTS. 

When  Tristram  was  well  within  the  forest  shades, 
he  alighted  and  unlaced  his  armor  and  sought  to 
stanch  his  wound.  But  so  pale  did  he  became  that 
Dinadan  thought  he  was  like  to  die. 

"  Never  dread  thee,  Dinadan,"  said  Tristram, 
cheerily,  "  for  I  am  heart  whole,  and  of  this  wound 
I  shall  soon  be  healed,  by  God's  mercy.'' 

As  they  sat  conversing  Dinadan  saw  at  a  distance 
Sir  Palamides,  who  was  riding  straight  upon  them, 
with  seeming  evil  intent.  Dinadan  hastily  bid 
Tristram  to  withdraw,  and  offered  himself  to  meet 
the  Saracen  and  take  the  chance  of  life  and  death 
with  him. 

"  I  thank  you.  Sir  Dinadan,  for  your  good  will," 
said  Tristram,  ^^but  you  shall  see  that  I  am  able 
to  handle  him." 

He  thereupon  hastily  armed  himself,  and,  mount- 
ing his  horse,  rode  to  meet  Palamides.  Then  a  chal- 
lenge to  joust  passed  between  them,  and  they  rode 
together.  But  Tristram  kept  his  seat  and  Pala- 
mides got  a  grievous  fall,  and  lay  on  the  earth  like 
one  dead. 

Leaving  him  there  with  a  comrade,  Tristram  and 
Dinadan  rode  on,  and  obtained  lodging  for  that 
night  at  the  castle  of  an  old  knight,  who  had  five 
sons  at  the  tournament. 

As  for  Palamides,  when  he  recovered  from  his 


336  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

swoon,  he  wellnigh  lost  his  wits  through  sheer  vexa- 
tion. He  rode  headlong  forward,  wild  with  rage, 
and  meeting  a  deep  stream  sought  to  make  his 
horse  leap  it.  But  the  horse  fell  in  and  was 
drowned,  and  the  knight  himself  reached  shore  only 
by  the  barest  chance. 

Now,  mad  with  chagrin,  he  flung  off  his  armor, 
and  sat  roaring  and  crying  like  a  man  distracted. 
As  he  sat  there,  a  damsel  passed  by,  who  on  seeing 
his  distressful  state  sought  to  comfort  him,  but  in 
vain.  Then  she  rode  on  till  she  came  to  the  old 
knight^s  castle,  where  Tristram  was,  and  told  how 
she  had  met  a  mad  knight  in  the  forest. 

"  What  shield  did  he  bear  ?  "   asked  Tristram. 

"  It  was  indented  with  black  and  white/'  an- 
swered the  damsel. 

"  That  was  Palamides.  The  poor  fellow  has  lost 
his  wits  through  his  bad  luck.  I  beg  that  you 
bring  him  to  your  castle.  Sir  Darras." 

This  the  old  knight  did,  for  the  frenzy  of  the 
Saracen  had'now  passed,  and  he  readily  accompanied 
him.  On  reaching  the  castle  he  looked  curiously 
at  Tristram,  whom  he  felt  sure  he  had  seen  before, 
but  could  not  place  him  in  his  mind.  But  his  anger 
against  his  fortunate  rival  continued,  and  he  boasted 
proudly  to  Dinadan  of  what  he  would  do  when  he 
met  that  fellow  Tristram. 

"  It  seems  to  me,"  answered  Dinadan,  "  that  you 
met  him  not  long  since,  and  got  little  good  of  him. 
Why  did  you  not  hold  him  when  you  had  him  in 
your  hands?  You  were  too  easy  with  the  fellow 
not  to  pummel  him  when  you  had  so  fine  an 
opportunity.'^ 


THE  QUEST  OF  THE  TEN  KNIGHTS.  337 

This  scornful  reply  silenced  the  boastful  Saracen, 
who  fell  into  an  angry  moodiness. 

Meanwhile  King  Arthur  was  sore  at  heart  at 
the  disappearance  of  Tristram,  and  spoke  in  re- 
proach to  Lancelot  as  being  the  cause  of  his  loss. 

"  My  liege  Arthur,^^  answered  Lancelot,  "  you 
do  me  ill  justice  in  this.  When  men  are  hot  in 
battle  they  may  well  hurt  their  friends  as  well  as 
their  foes.  As  for  Tristram,  there  is  no  man  living 
whom  I  would  rather  help.  If  you  desire,  I  will 
make  one  of  ten  knights  who  will  go  in  search  of 
him,  and  not  rest  two  nights  in  the  same  place  for 
a  year  until  we  find  him." 

This  offer  pleased  the  king,  who  quickly  chose 
nine  other  knights  for  the  quest,  and  made  them 
all  swear  upon  the  Scriptures  to  do  as  Lancelot 
had  proposed. 

With  dawn  of  the  next  day  these  ten  knights 
armed  themselves,  and  rode  from  the  Castle  of 
Maidens,  continuing  in  company  until  they  came  to 
a  roadside  cross,  from  which  ran  out  four  high- 
ways. Here  they  separated  into  four  parties,  each 
of  which  followed  one  of  the  highways.  And  far 
and  wide  they  rode  through  field  and  forest  for 
many  days  in  quest  of  the  brave  knight  of  Cornwall. 

Of  them  all,  Sir  Lucan,  the  butler,  came  nearest 
to  good  fortune,  for  chance  brought  him  to  the  castle 
of  the  old  knight,  Sir  Darras.  Here  he  asked  har- 
bor, sending  in  his  name  by  the  porter. 

"  He  shall  not  rest  here  unless  he  first  joust  with 
me,"  cried  Sir  Daname,  the  old  knight's  nephew. 
"  Bid  him  make  ready,  for  he  must  earn  his 
lodging." 

22 


338  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

But  better  had  Daname  held  his  peace,  for  Lucan 
smote  him  over  his  horse's  croup,  and  followed  him 
hotly  when  he  fled  into  the  castle. 

"This  is  a  shame  to  our  host,"  said  Dinadan. 
"Let  me  try  conclusions  with  our  doughty  butler. 
It  will  not  do  to  let  him  take  our  castle  by  storm." 

He  thereupon  rode  against  Lucan,  and  fared  still 
worse,  for  he  got  for  his  pains  a  spear  thrust  through 
.the  thigh.  Then  Tristram,  in  anger,  armed  and 
followed  Lucan,  who  had  ridden  on,  in  search  of  a 
more  peaceful  place  of  shelter.  Within  a  mile  he 
overtook  him  and  bade  him  turn  and  joust.  Noth- 
ing loth,  Lucan  did  so,  and  in  his  turn  got  a  sore 
fall,  though  he  little  dreamed  that  he  had  been 
overthrown  by  the  knight  of  his  quest.  At  this 
juncture  another  of  the  ten  knights,  Sir  Uwaine, 
came  up,  and  seeing  Sir  Lucan's  misfortune,  rode 
furiously  against  the  victor.  His  luck  was  no  better, 
for  he  was  hurled  to  the  ground  with  a  sorely 
wounded  side.  Having  thus  revenged  his  comrades, 
Tristram  returned  to  the  castle. 

Meanwhile  a  damsel  from  the  Castle  of  Maidens 
had  come  thither,  and  told  Sir  Darras  a  woeful 
story.  Of  his  five  sons,  three  had  been  slain  at 
the  tournament,  and  the  other  two  were  danger- 
ously wounded,  all  this  having  been  done  by  the 
knight  of  the  black  shield.  Deep  grief  filled  the 
old  knight's  heart  at  this  sad  tale.  But  his  sor- 
row turned  to  rage  when  the  damsel  was  shown 
Tristram's  shield  and  recognized  it  as  that  of  the 
champion  of  the  tournament. 

"  So,"  cried  the  old  knight  in  a  hot  passion.  "  I 
am  harboring  here  my  sons'  murderer,  and  troubling 


THE  QUEST  OF  THE  TEN  KNIGHTS.  339 

myself  to  give  him  noble  cheer.  By  my  father's 
grave,  I  will  revenge  my  boys'  death  on  him  and  his 
companions." 

Then  in  grief  and  rage  he  ordered  his  knights 
and  servants  to  seize  Tristram,  Dinadan,  and  Pala- 
mides,  and  put  them  in  a  strong  dungeon  he  had 
in  the  keep  of  his  castle. 

This  was  done  before  the  three  knights  could 
defend  themselves,  and  for  many  days  they  lay  in 
this  dismal  cell,  until  Tristram  grew  so  sick  from 
his  wound  and  confinement  that  he  came  near  to 
dying.  WHiile  they  lay  thus  in  durance  vile  some 
knights  of  Darras's  kindred  came  to  the  castle, 
and  on  hearing  the  story  wished  to  kill  the  captives, 
but  this  the  old  knight  would  not  permit,  though 
he  determined  to  hold  them  close  prisoners.  So 
deep  in  time  grew  Tristram's  sickness  that  his 
mind  nearly  failed  him,  and  he  was  ready  to  slay 
himself  for  pain  and  grief.  Palamides  gave  him 
what  aid  he  could,  though  all  the  time  he  spoke 
of  his  hatred  to  Tristram,  the  Cornishman,  and 
of  the  revenge  he  yet  hoped  to  have.  To  this  Tris- 
tram made  no  reply,  but  smiled  quietly. 

Meanwhile  the  ten  knights  continued  their  fruit- 
less search,  some  here,  some  there,  while  one  of 
them,  Gaheris,  nephew  to  King  Arthur,  made  his 
way  to  King  Mark's  court,  where  he  was  well 
received. 

As  they  sat  at  table  together  the  king  asked 
his  guest  what  tidings  he  brought  from  Arthur's 
realm  of  Logris. 

"  Sir,"  he  answered,  "  King  Arthur  still  reigns 
nobly,  and  he  lately  presided  at  a  grand  touma- 


340  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

ment  where  fought  many  of  the  noblest  knights  of 
the  kingdom.  But  best  of  them  all  was  a  valiant 
knight  who  bore  a  black  shield,  and  who  kept  the 
lordship  of  the  lists  for  three  days." 

"  Then  by  my  crown  it  must  have  been  Lance- 
lot, or  Palamides  the  Pagan/^ 

"  Not  so.  These  knights  were  against  him  of  the 
black  shield." 

"  Was  it  Sir  Tristram  ?  "  asked  the  king. 

"  In  sooth  you  have  it  now." 

The  king  held  down  his  head  at  this,  but  La 
Belle  Isolde,  who  was  at  the  feast,  heard  it  with 
great  secret  joy,  and  her  love  for  Tristram  grew 
warmer  in  her  soul. 

But  King  Mark  nourished  treason  in  his  heart, 
and  sought  within  his  brain  some  device  to  do 
dishonor  to  Tristram  and  to  Arthur's  knights. 
Soon  afterward  Uwaine  came  to  his  court  and 
challenged  any  knight  of  Cornwall  to  meet  him 
in  the  lists.  Two  of  these,  Andred,  and  Dinas  the 
seneschal,  accepted  the  challenge,  but  both  were 
overthrown.  Tlien  King  Mark  in  a  fury  cried  out 
against  his  knig^hts,  and  Gaheris,  as  his  guest,  prof- 
fered to  meet  the  champion.  But  when  Uwaine 
saw  his  shield,  he  knew  him  for  his  own  cousin, 
and  refused  to  joust  with  him,  reproving  him  for 
breaking  his  oath  of  fellowship  as  a  Knight  of 
the  Round  Table. 

This  reproof  cut  Gaheris  deeply,  and  returning 
to  King  Mark  he  took  his  leave  of  him  and  his 
court,  saying, — 

^^  Sir  king,  this  I  must  say,  that  you  did  a  foul 
shame  to  yourself   and  your  kingdom   when   you 


THE  QUEST  OF  THE  TEN   KNIGHTS.  341 

banished  Sir  Tristram.  Had  he  stayed  here  you 
would  not  have  wanted  a  champion.^' 

All  this  added  to  the  king's  rage,  and  arming 
himself  he  waylaid  Uwaine  at  a  secret  place  as  he 
was  passing  unawares,  and  ran  him  through  the 
body.  But  before  he  could  kill  him  as  he  designed, 
Kay  the  seneschal  came  that  way  and  flew  to  the 
aid  of  the  wounded  knight,  while  King  Mark  rode 
in  dastardly  haste  away.  Kay  sought  to  learn  from 
Uwaine  who  had  hurt  him,  but  this  he  was  not  able 
to  tell. 

He  then  bore  him  to  a  neighboring  abbey  of  the 
black  cross,  where  he  left  him  in  the  care  of  the 
monks.  Not  far  had  he  ridden  from  there  when 
he  met  King  Mark,  who  accosted  him  courteously, 
and  bade  him,  if  he  sought  an  adventure,  to  ride 
into  the  forest  of  Morris,  where  he  would  find  one 
to  try  his  prowess. 

"  I  will  prove  what  it  is  worth,"  said  Kay,  and 
bade  adieu  to  the  king. 

A  mile  or  two  further  on  he  met  Gaheris,  who, 
learning  his  errand,  warned  him  against  doing  any- 
thing at  the  suggestion  of  King  Mark,  who  meant 
but  treachery  and  harm. 

"  Come  with  me,  then,''  said  Kay.  "  Adventures 
are  not  so  abundant,  and  we  two  should  be  able  to 
match  the  wiles  of  this  dastard  king." 

"  I  shall  not  fail  you,"  said  Gaheris. 

Into  the  forest  they  then  rode  till  they  came  to 
the  edge  of  a  little  lake,  known  as  the  Perilous 
Lake,  and  here  they  waited  under  the  woodland 
shadows. 

It  was  now  night,  tut  the  moon  rode  high  in  the 


342  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

skies,  and  flung  its  silvery  rays  wide  over  the 
forest  glade.  As  they  stood  thus,  there  rode  into 
the  moonlit  opening  a  knight  all  in  black  armor 
and  on  a  great  black  horse,  who  tilted  against  Sir 
Kay.  The  seneschaPs  horse  was  smaller  than  that 
of  the  stranger,  and  was  overthrown  by  the  shock, 
falling  upon  its  rider,  whom  it  bruised  severely. 

During  this  encounter  Gaheris  had  remained  hid- 
den under  the  woodland  shadows.  He  now  cried 
sternly, — 

"  Knight,  sit  thou  fast  in  thy  saddle,  for  I  will 
revenge  my  fellow ; "  and  rode  against  the  black 
knight  with  such  fury  that  he  was  flung  from  his 
horse.  Then  he  turned  to  a  companion  of  the 
black  knight,  who  now  appeared,  and  hurled  him 
to  the  earth  so  violently  that  he  came  near  to 
breaking  his  neck  in  the  fall. 

Leaping  from  his  horse  and  helping  Kay  to  his 
feet,  Gaheris  sternly  bade  his  antagonists  to  tell 
their  names  or  they  should  die. 

"  Beware  what  you  do,"  said  the  second  knight. 
"  This  is  King  Mark  of  Cornwall,  and  I  am  his 
cousin  Andred." 

"  You  are  traitors  both,"  cried  Gaheris,  in  a 
furv,  "  and  have  laid  this  ambush  for  us.  It  were 
a  pity  to  let  such  craven  rascals  live." 

"  Spare  my  life,"  prayed  the  king,  "  and  I  will 
make  full  amends." 

.  "  You  a  king ;  and  dealing  dn  treachery !  "  cried 
Gaheris.     "  You  have  lived  long  enough." 

With  this  he  struck  fiercely  at  King  Mark  with 
his  sword,  while  the  dastard  king  cowered  under 
his  shield.     Kay  attacked  Andred  at  the  same  time. 


THE  QUEST  OF  THE  TEN  KNIGHTS.  343 

King  Mark  now  flung  himself  on  his  knees  before 
Gaheris  and  swore  on  the  cross  of  his  sword  never 
while  he  lived  to  do  aught  against  errant  knights. 
And  he  also  swore  to  be  a  friend  unto  Sir  Tristram 
if  he  should  come  into  Cornwall. 

With  this  they  let  them  go,  though  Kay  was 
eager  to  slay  Andred,  for  his  deeds  of  treachery 
against  his  cousin  Tristram.  The  two  knights  now 
rode  out  of  the  kingdom  of  Cornwall,  and  soon 
after  met  Lancelot,  who  asked  them  what  tidings 
they  brought  from  King  Mark's  country,  and  if 
they  had  learned  aught  of  Tristram.  They  an- 
swered that  they  had  not,  and  told  him  of  their 
adventure,  at  which  Lancelot  smiled. 

"  You  will  find  it  hard  to  take  out  of  the  flesh 
that  which  is  bred  in  the  bone,"  he  said. 

Then  Lancelot,  Kay,  and  Gaheris  rode  together 
to  seek  Tristram  in  the  country  of  Surluse,  not 
dreaming  that  he  lay  in  prison  not  many  miles 
from  the  Castle  of  Maidens. 

Leaving  them  to  pursue  their  useless  journey,  we 
must  return  to  the  three  prisoners.  Tristram  still 
continued  sick  almost  unto  death,  while  Palamides, 
while  giving  him  daily  care,  continued  to  rail 
loudly  against  him  and  to  boast  of  how  he  would 
yet  deal  with  him.  Of  this  idle  boasting  Dinadan 
in  time  had  more  than  he  could  bear,  and  broke 
out  angrily  on  the  Saracen. 

"  I  doubt  if  you  would  do  him  harm  if  he  were 
here  before  you,"  he  said ;  *^  for  if  a  wolf  and  a 
sheep  were  together  in  prison  the  wolf  would  leave 
the  sheep  in  peace.  As  for  Sir  Tristram,  against 
whom  you  rail  like  a  scold,  here  he  lies  before  you. 


344  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

Now  do  your  worst  upon  him,  Sir  Saracen,  while 
he  is  too  sick  to  defend  himself/' 

Surprise  and  shame  overcame  Palamides  at  this 
announcement,  and  he  dropped  his  head  in  con- 
fusion. 

"I  have  heard  somewhat  too  much  of  your  ill 
will  against  me,''  said  Tristram,  "but  shall  let  it 
pass  at  present,  for  we  are  in  more  danger  here 
from  the  lord  of  this  place  than  from  each  other." 

As  they  spoke,  a  damsel  brought  them  their  noon- 
tide meal,  and  said  as  she  gave  it  them, — 

"  Be  of  good  cheer,  sir  knights,  for  you  are  in 
no  peril  of  your  lives.  So  much  I  heard  my  lord. 
Sir  Darras,  say  this  morning." 

"  So  far  your  news  is  good,"  cried  Dinadan. 
"  Good  for  two  of  us  at  least,  for  this  good  knight 
promises  to  die  without  waiting  for  the  executioner." 

The  damsel  looked  upon  Tristram,  and  observing 
the  thinness  of  his  face  and  hands,  went  and  told 
Sir  Darras  of  what  she  had  heard  and  seen. 

"  That  must  not  be,"  cried  the  knight.  "  God 
defend  that  I  should  suffer  those  who  came  to  me 
for  succor  to  die  in  my  prison.     Bring  them  hither." 

Then  Tristram  was  brought  to  the  castle  hall 
on  his  couch,  with  the  other  two  knights  beside  him. 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  the  castle  lord,  "  I  am  sorry 
for  your  sickness,  and  would  not  have  so  noble  a 
knight  as  you  die  in  prison,  though  I  owe  to  you 
the  death  of  three  of  my  sons." 

"  As  for  that,"  said  Tristram,  "  it  was  in  fair 
fight,  and  if  they  were  my  next  of  kin  I  could 
not  have  done  otherwise.  If  I  had  slain  them  by 
treachery,  I  would  have  deserved  death  at  your 
hands." 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      345 

"  You  acted  knightly,  and  for  that  reason  I  could 
not  put  you  to  death,"  said  Sir  Darras.  "  You  and 
your  fellows  shall  go  at  full  liberty,  with  your 
horses  and  armor,  on  this  covenant,  that  you  will 
be  a  good  friend  to  my  two  sons  who  are  still  living, 
and  that  you  tell  me  your  name." 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  de  Lyonesse.  I  was  born 
in  Cornwall,  and  am  nephew  to  King  Mark.  And 
I  promise  you  by  the  faith  of  my  body  that  while 
I  live  I  shall  be  a  friend  to  you  and  your  sons,  for 
what  you  have  done  to  us  was  but  by  force  of 
nature." 

"If  you  be  the  good  knight  Sir  Tristram,  I  am 
sorry  to  have  held  you  in  durance,  and  thank  you 
for  your  proffer  of  service.  But  you  must  stay 
with  me  still  till  you  are  well  and  strong." 

To  this  Tristram  agreed,  and  staid  many  more 
days  with  the  old  knight,  growing  well  rapidly 
under  the  healing  influence  of  hope  and  liberty. 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE  KNIGHT   WITH   THE   COVERED  SHIELD. 

When  Tristram's  strength  had  all  come  back 
again  he  took  his  leave  of  Sir  Darras,  and  rode 
away  with  Palamides  and  Dinadan.  Soon  they 
came  to  a  cross-way,  and  here  Tristram  said, — 

"  Good  sirs,  let  us  here  take  each  his  own  road, 
and  many  fair  adventures  may  come  to  us  all." 


346  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

To  this  they  agreed,  and  Tristram  rode  on  along 
the  main  highway,  chance  bringing  him  that  night 
to  a  castle  in  which  was  Queen  Morgan  le  Fay. 
Here  he  was  given  lodging  and  good  cheer,  but 
when  he  was  ready  to  depart  the  next  day  the  queen 
said  to  him, — 

"  Sir  knight,  it  is  one  thing  to  enter  this  castle 
and  another  to  leave  it.  You  will  not  depart  so 
easily  as  you  came.     Know  that  you  are  a  prisoner.'^ 

"  God  forfend,^'  said  Tristram.  "  I  am  just  re- 
leased from  prison,  and  have  had  enough  of  that 


regimen." 


"  You  shall  stay  here,  nevertheless,  till  I  learn 
who  you  are  and  whence  you  came,  but  I  promise 
you  no  hard  quarters.'' 

She  set  him,  therefore,  by  her  side  at  table,  and 
made  so  much  of  him  that  a  knight  who  loved 
her  clutched  his  sword-hilt  in  jealous  rage,  half 
disposed  to  rush  upon  Tristram  and  run  him 
through  unawares. 

"  Tell  me  your  name,"  said  the  queen,  at  the  end 
of  the  repast,  "  and  you  shall  depart  when  you 
will." 

"  Thanks  for  your  promise,  fair  lady.  My  name 
is  Tristram  de  Lyonesse." 

"  Then  I  am  sorry  I  made  so  hasty  a  promise. 
But  I  will  hold  to  my  word  if  you  will  engage 
to  bear  a  shield  which  I  shall  give  you  to  the  Castle 
of  the  Hard  Rock,  where  King  Arthur  has  an- 
nounced that  a  tournament  is  to  be  held.  I  have 
heard  of  your  deeds  of  arms  at  the  Castle  of  Maid- 
ens, and  hope  you  will  do  as  much  for  me  at  this 
new  tournament." 


» 

"And  who  is  the  knight?^' 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      347 

"Let  me  see  the  shield  that  you  wish  me  to 
bear/^  asked  Tristram. 

So  the  shield  was  brought.  It  was  golden  on 
its  face,  and  on  it  was  painted  a  king  and  queen, 
with  a  knight  standing  above  them  with  a  foot  on 
the  head  of  each. 

"  This  is  a  fair  shield,^^  said  Tristram ;  "  but 
what  signifies  the  device  ?  " 

"  It  signifies  King  Arthur  and  Queen  Guenever,^^ 
said  Morgan,  "  and  a  knight  that  holds  them  both 
in  bondage.' 

And  who  is  the  knight? 

That  you  shall  not  know  at  present.' 

So  Tristram  took  the  shield,  not  dreaming  that 
it  was  intended  as  a  rebuke  to  Sir  Lancelot,  and 
promised  to  bear  it  at  the  tournament. 

But  as  he  rode  away  he  was  followed  by  Sir 
Hemison,  the  knight  who  loved  Morgan  le  Fay,  and 
whose  jealous  anger  had  been  roused.  Overtaking 
Tristram  before  he  had  gone  far,  he  rushed  upon 
him  at  the  speed  of  his  horse,  crying,  in  a  voice 
of  thunder, — 

"  Sir  knight,  defend  yourself !  '^ 

This  Tristram  did  with  good  effect,  for  his  assail- 
ant's spear  broke  upon  his  body,  while  he  thrust 
him  through  and  hurled  him  to  the  earth  with  a 
mortal  wound. 

"  Fool,  you  have  brought  it  on  yourself,"  said 
Tristram.  "  It  is  not  my  fault  if  you  got  what 
you  designed  for  me.'' 

Then  he  rode  on,  and  left  the  wounded  knight 
to  the  care  of  his  squire,  who  removed  his  helmet, 
and  asked  if  his  life  was  in  any  danger. 


348  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


66 


There  is  little  life  in  me/'  said  the  knight, 

and  that  is  ebbing  fast.  Therefore  help  me  to 
my  saddle,  and  mount  behind  me  and  hold  me  on 
so  that  I  shall  not  fall,  and  so  bring  me  to  Queen 
Morgan  le  Fay.  For  deep  draughts  of  death  draw 
to  my  heart,  and  I  would  fain  speak  to  her  before 
I  die/' 

The  squire  did  as  commanded,  and  brought  his 
bleeding  master  to  the  castle,  but  he  died  as  he 
entered  the  hall,  falling  lifeless  at  the  feet  of  the 
lady  of  his  love.  Much  she  wept  and  great  lamen- 
tation she  made  for  his  untimely  fate,  and  buried 
him  in  a  stately  tomb,  on  which  was  written, 
"  Here  lieth  Sir  Hemison,  slain  by  the  hands  of 
Tristram  de  Lyonesse." 

On  the  next  day  Tristram  arrived  at  the  castle 
of  Roche-dure,  where  he  saw  the  lists  prepared 
for  the  tournament,  with  gay  pennons  flying,  while 
full  five  hundred  tents  were  pitched  in  a  fair 
meadow  by  the  gates.  Over  the  seats  of  honor 
were  silken  canopies,  that  shaded  noble  lords  and 
beautiful  ladies  clad  in  gay  apparel.  Within  the 
lists  the  kings  of  Scotland  and  Ireland  held  out 
strongly  against  King  Arthur's  knights,  and  dread 
was  the  noise  and  turmoil  within. 

Tristram  at  once  joined  in  the  fray,  and  smote 
down  many  knights;  King  Arthur  marvelling  the 
while  at  the  device  on  his  shield,  while  Guenever 
grew    heavy    at    heart,    for    well    she   guessed    its 


meaning. 


Ever  King  Arthur's  eye  was  on  that  shield,  and 
much  he  wondered  who  the  knight  could  be,  for 
he  had  heard  that  Tristram  was  in  Brittany,  and  he 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      349 

knew  that  Lancelot  was  in  quest  of  him,  while 
he  knew  no  other  knight  of  equal  prowess. 

As  the  combat  went  on,  Arthur's  knights  drove 
back  their  antagonists,  who  began  to  withdraw 
from  the  field.  On  seeing  this  the  king  deter- 
mined that  the  knight  with  the  strange  shield 
should  not  escape,  so  he  armed  and  called  Sir 
Uwaine,  entering  the  lists  with  him  and  riding  up 
to  confront  the  unknown  knight. 

"  Sir  stranger,"  said  the  king,  "  before  we  fight, 
I  require  you  to  tell  me  where  you  got  that  shield." 

"  I  had  it  from  Morgan  le  Fay,  sister  to  King 
Arthur,"  answered  Tristram. 

"  Then,  if  you  are  worthy  to  bear  it,  you  are  able 
to  tell  me  its  meaning." 

"  That  I  cannot,"  answered  the  knight.  "  It  was 
given  me  by  Queen  Morgan,  not  through  any  asking 
of  mine.  She  told  me  not  what  it  signified,  nor  do 
I  know,  but  I  promised  to  bear  it  worthily." 

"  In  truth,"  said  Arthur,  "  no  knight  should  bear 
arms  he  cannot  understand.  But  at  least  you  will 
tell  me  your  name." 

"  To  what  intent  ?  "  asked  Tristram. 

"  Simply  that  I  wish  to  know." 

"  That  is  small  reason.     I  decline  to  tell  you." 

"  If  not,  we  must  do  battle  together." 

"  What !  "  cried  Tristram  ;  "  you  will  fight  me 
on  so  small  a  cause?  My  name  is  my  own,  to  be 
given  or  withheld  as  I  will.  It  is  not  honorable 
for  a  fresh  knight  to  challenge  me  to  battle,  after 
all  I  have  done  this  day.  But  if  you  think  you 
have  me  at  advantage,  you  may  find  that  I  am 
able  to  hold  my  own." 


350  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

Then  they  put  their  spears  in  rest  and  furiously 
dashed  together  across  the  lists.  But  King  Arthur's 
spear  shivered  to  splinters  on  Tristram's  shield, 
while  he  himself  got  such  a  blow  from  the  Cornish 
knight  that  horse  and  man  fell  headlong  to  the 
earth,  the  king  with  a  dangerous  wound  in  the  side. 

When  Uwaine  saw  this  he  reined  back  his  horse 
in  haste,  and  crying  loudly,  "  Knight,  defend  thy- 
self !  "  he  rode  furiously  on  Tristram.  But  man 
fared  no  better  than  master.  Uwaine  was  borne 
out  of  his  saddle  to  the  earth,  while  Tristram  sat 
unmoved. 

Then  Tristram  wheeled  his  horse  and  said, — 

*^  Fair  sirs,  I  had  no  need  to  joust  with  you,  for 
I  have  done  enough  to-day;  but  you  forced  me 
to  it." 

"  We  have  had  what  we  deserved,"  answered 
Arthur.  "  Yet  I  would  fain  know  your  name,  and 
would  further  learn  if  that  device  on  your  shield 
is  intended  as  an  insult  to  King  Arthur." 

"  That  you  must  ask  Morgan  le  Fay :  she  alone 
knows.  But  report  says  she  does  not  love  her  royal 
brother  over  much.  Yet  she  told  me  not  what  it 
means,  and  I  have  borne  it  at  her  command.  As 
for  my  name,  it  shall  be  known  when  I  will." 

So  Tristram  departed,  and  rode  far  over  hill  and 
dale,  everywhere  seeking  for  Lancelot,  with  whom 
he  in  his  heart  wished  to  make  fellowship.  As  he 
went  on  he  came  by  a  forest,  on  the  edge  of  which 
stood  a  tall  tower,  and  in  front  of  it  a  fair  level 
meadow.  And  here  he  saw  one  knight  fighting 
against  ten,  and  bearing  himself  so  well  that  it 
seemed  marvellous  that  a  single  man  could  hold 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      351 

his  own  so  bravely  against  such  odds.  He  had  slain 
half  their  horses,  and  unhorsed  the  remaining 
knights,  so  that  their  chargers  ran  free  in  the 
field.  The  ten  had  then  assailed  him  on  foot,  and 
he  was  bearing  up  bravely  against  them. 

"  Cease  that  battle !  '^  cried  Tristram,  loudly,  as 
he  came  up.  ''  Ten  to  one  are  cowards'  odds." 
And  as  he  came  nearer  he  saw  by  his  shield  that 
the  one  knight  was  Sir  Palamides. 

"  You  would  be  wise  not  to  meddle,"  said  the 
leader  of  the  ten,  who  was  the  villanous  knight 
called  Breuse  San  Pite.  "  Go  your  way  while  your 
skin  is  whole.     As  for  this  knight,  he  is  our  prey." 

"  Say  you  so  !  "  cried  Tristram.  "  There  may  be 
two  words  to  that." 

As  he  spoke  he  sprang  from  his  horse,  lest  they 
should  kill  it,  and  attacked  them  on  foot  with  such 
fury  that  with  every  stroke  a  knight  fell  before  him. 

This  was  more  than  they  had  bargained  for,  and 
Breuse  fled  hastily  to  the  tower,  followed  by  all 
that  were  able,  while  Tristram  hotly  pursued.  But 
they  quickly  closed  and  barred  the  door,  shutting 
him  out.  When  he  saw  this  he  returned  to  Pala- 
mides, whom  he  found  sitting  under  a  tree,  sorely 
wounded. 

"  Thanks  for  your  timely  aid,"  said  the  Saracen. 
^^You  have  saved  my  life." 

"  What  is  your  name  ?  "  asked  Tristram. 

"  It  is  Sir  Palamides." 

"  Then  have  I  saved  my  greatest  enemy ;  and  I 
here  challenge  you  to  battle." 

"  WTiat  is  vour  name  ?  "   asked  Palamides. 

"  I  am  Tristram  of  Lyonesse." 


352  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


« 


My  enemy  indeed!  yet  I  owe  you  thanks  for 
your  rescue,  nor  am  I  in  condition  for  jousting. 
But  I  desire  nothing  better  than  to  meet  you  in 
battle.  If  you  are  as  eager  for  it,  fix  day  and  place, 
and  I  will  be  there.'* 

"  Well  said,"  answered  Tristram.  "  Let  it  be  in 
the  meadow  by  the  river  at  Camelot,  there  where 
Merlin  set  the  tombstone." 

"  Agreed.     I  shall  not  fail  you." 

"How  came  you  in  battle  with  these  ten 
dastards  ?  " 

"  The  chance  of  journeying  brought  me  into 
this  forest,  where  I  saw  a  dead  knight  with  a  lady 
weeping  beside  him.  I  asked  her  who  slew  her 
lord,  and  she  told  me  it  was  the  most  villanous 
knight  in  the  world,  named  Breuse  Sans  Pit6.  I 
then  took  her  on  my  horse  and  promised  to  see 
that  her  lord  was  properly  interred.  But  as  I 
passed  by  this  tower  its  rascally  owner  suddenly 
rode  from  the  gate  and  struck  me  unawares  so  hard 
that  I  fell  from  my  horse.  Before  I  could  recover 
he  killed  the  lady.  It  was  thus  the  battle  began, 
at  which  you  arrived  in  good  time." 

"  It  is  not  safe  for  you  to  stay  here,"  said  Tris- 
tram. "  That  fellow  is  out  of  our  reach  for  the 
present,  but  you  are  not  in  condition  to  meet  him 
again." 

So  they  mounted  and  rode  into  the  forest,  where 
they  soon  came  to  a  sparkling  fountain,  whose  clear 
water  bubbled  freshly  from  the  ground.  Here  they 
alighted  and  refreshed  themselves. 

As  they  did  so  Tristram's  horse  neighed  loudly 
and  was  answered  by  another  horse  near  by.     They 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      353 

mounted  and  rode  towards  the  sound,  and  quickly 
came  in  sight  of  a  great  war-horse  tied  to  a  tree. 
Under  an  adjoining  tree  lay  a  knight  asleep,  in 
full  armor,  save  that  his  helmet  was  placed  under 
his  head  for  a  pillow. 

"  A  stout-looking  fellow  that,"  said  Tristram. 
"  What  shall  we  do  ?  " 

"  Awake  him,"  said  Palamides. 

Tristram  did  so,  stirring  him  with  the  butt  of 
his  spear. 

But  they  had  better  have  let  him  sleep,  for  he 
sprang  angrily  to  his  feet,  put  on  his  helmet  in 
haste,  and  mounting  his  war-horse  seized  his  spear. 
Without  a  word  he  spurred  upon  Tristram  and 
struck  him  such  a  blow  as  to  fling  him  from  his 
saddle  to  the  earth.  Then  he  galloped  back  and 
came  hurling  upon  Palamides,  whom  he  served  in 
the  same  rude  fashion.  Tjcaving  them  laying  there, 
he  turned  his  horse  and  rode  leisurely  away. 

When  the  two  overthrown  knights  gained  their 
feet  again,  they  looked  at  one  another  with  faces 
of  shame  and  anger. 

"  Well,  what  now  ?  "  asked  Tristram.  "  That  is 
the  worst  waking  I  ever  did  in  my  life.  By  my 
troth,  I  did  not  fancy  there  was  a  knight  in  Arthur^s 
realm  that  could  have  served  you  and  me  such  a 
trick.  Whatever  you  do,  I  am  going  after  this 
woodland  champion  to  have  a  fairer  trial." 

"  So  would  I  were  T  well,"  said  Palamides.  "  But 
I  am  so  hurt  that  I  must  seek  rest  witli  a  friend 
of  mine  near  by." 

"  T  can  trust  you  to  meet  me  at  the  place 
appointed  ?  " 

23 


354  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 


a 


I  have  cause  to  have  more  doubt  of  you  than 
you  of  me;  for  if  you  follow  this  strong  knight 
you  may  not  escape  with  whole  bones  from  the 
adventure.     I  wish  you  success." 

"  And  I  wish  you  health." 

With  these  words  they  parted,  each  riding  his 
own  way. 

But  news  came  to  Tristram  as  he  rode  on  that 
would  have  turned  many  a  knight  from  that  adven- 
ture. For  the  first  day  he  found  a  dead  knight 
and  a  lady  weeping  over  him,  who  said  that  her 
lord  had  jousted  with  a  strong  champion,  who  had 
run  him  through.  On  the  third  day  he  met  the 
good  knights  Gawaine  and  Bleoberis,  both  wounded, 
who  said  they  had  been  so  served  by  a  knight  with 
a  covered  Shield. 

"  He  treated  me  and  Palamides  the  same  way,'^ 
said  Tristram,  "  and  I  am  on  his  track  to  repay 
him." 

"  By  my  faith,  you  had  best  turn  back,"  said 
Gawaine. 

"  By  my  head,  I  will  not,"  said  Tristram,  and 
he  rode  on  in  pursuit. 

The  next  day  he  met  Kay  the  seneschal  and 
Dinadan  in  a  meadow. 

"  What  tidings  have  you  ?  "   he  asked. 

"  Not  good,"  they  answered. 

"  Tell  me  what  they  are.  I  ride  in  search  of  a 
knight." 

"What  cognizance  does  he  bear?" 

"  He  carries  a  shield  covered  by  a  cloth." 

"  Then  you  are  not  far  from  him,"  said  Kay. 
"  We  lodged  last  night  in  a  widow's  house,  and  that 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      355 

knight  sought  the  same  lodging.  And  when  he 
knew  we  were  of  Arthur's  court  he  spoke  villanous 
things  of  the  king,  and  worse  of  Queen  Guenever. 
The  next  day  we  waged  battle  with  him  for  this 
insult.  But  at  the  first  encounter  he  flung  me  from 
mv  horse  with  a  sore  hurt.  And  when  Dinadan 
here  saw  me  down  he  showed  more  prudence  than 
valor,  for  he  fled  to  save  his  skin." 

After  some  further  words  Tristram  rode  on; 
but  days  passed  and  he  found  not  the  knight  with 
the  covered  shield,  though  he  heard  more  tales  of 
his  irresistible  prowess.  Then,  flnding  that  his 
armor  was  bruised  and  broken  with  long  use,  he 
sent  Gouvernail,  his  squire,  to  a  city  near  by  to 
bring  him  fresh  apparel,  and  rested  at  a  priory  till 
he  came. 

On  Gouvernail 's  return  he  donned  his  new  armor, 
and  turned  his  horse's  head  towards  Camelot,  seek- 
ing the  point  where  he  had  engaged  to  do  battle 
with  Palamides.  This  was  at  the  tomb  of  Lanceor, 
son  of  the  king  of  Ireland,  who  had  been  slain  by 
Balin,  and  whose  lady  Columbe  had  slain  herself,  as 
we  have  already  told.  His  tomb  had  been  set  up 
near  the  river  by  Merlin,  and  it  had  become  a  place 
of  pilgrimage  for  true  lovers  and  faithful  wedded 
pairs. 

Tristram  did  not  get  there  without  more  battling, 
for  the  roads  around  Camelot  then  swarmed  with 
errant  knights,  eager  to  show  their  strength.  Yet 
he  was  none  the  worse  for  these  encounters  when  he 
rode  up  to  the  tomb  where  he  hoped  to  find  Pala- 
mides in  waiting.  But  instead  of  the  Saracen  he 
saw  a  knight  approaching  in  white  armor,  who  bore 
a  shield  covered  with  a  dark  cloth. 


356  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

"  Sir  knight,  you  are  welcome ;  none  more  so/' 
cried  Tristram.  "  I  have  sought  you  far  and  near, 
and  have  an  ugly  fall  to  repay  you  for;  and  also 
owe  you  a  lesson  for  your  revilement  of  King 
Arthur  and  his  fair  queen." 

"  Shorter  words  and  longer  deeds  would  serve 
better,"  said  the  stranger  knight.  "Make  ready, 
my  good  fellow,  if  one  fall  is  not  enough  to  satisfy 

you/' 

Then  they  rode  apart  to  a  fair  distance,  and 
putting  spurs  to  their  horses  hurtled  together  with 
headlong  speed.  So  fiercely  met  they,  indeed,  that 
horses  and  knights  together  went  toppling  to  the 
earth,  both  those  brave  warriors  kissing  the  dust. 

With  all  haste  they  regained  their  feet,  put  their 
shields  before  them,  and  struck  at  each  other  with 
bright  swords  like  men  of  might.  The  battle  that 
followed  was  such  a  one  as  that  ground  had  never 
seen,  for  those  two  knights  seemed  rather  giants 
than  men.  For  four  hours  they  kept  up  the  com- 
bat, neither  speaking  a  word,  till  at  the  end  their 
armor  was  hewn  off  in  many  places,  and  blood  had 
flowed  from  their  wounds  till  the  grass  was  turned 
from  green  to  crimson. 

The  squires  looked  on  in  wonder,  and  boasted 
of  the  might  of  their  lords,  though  their  hearts 
grew  heavy  when  they  saw  the  bright  swords  so 
reddened  with  blood. 

At  last  the  unknown  knight  rested  on  his  weapon, 
and  said, — 

"  Sir  stranger,  you  are  the  best  fighter  I  ever 
saw  in  armor.  I  would  know  you  better,  and  beg 
to  learn  your  name.'' 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.  357 

"  I  care  not  to  tell  it/'  said  Tristram. 

"  Why  not  ?     I  never  make  my  name  a  secret."    . 

"  Then  pray  tell  it,  for  I  would  give  much  to 
know  the  name  of  the  stoutest  knight  I  ever  drew 
sword  upon.'' 

"  Fair  sir,  my  name  is  Lancelot  du  Lake/' 

"  Alas,  can  this  be  so  ?  Have  I  fought  thus 
against  the  man  I  love  best  in  the  world  ?  " 

"  Then  who  are  you  ?  " 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  de  Lyonesse." 

"  Oh,  what  strange  chance  is  this !  Take  my 
sword.  Sir  Tristram,  for  you  have  earned  it  well." 

And  he  knelt  and  vielded  Tristram  his  sword. 

ft/ 

Tristram  in  turn  knelt  and  yielded  up  his.  And 
thus  with  exchange  of  words  they  gave  each  other 
the  degree  of  brotherhood.  Then  they  sat  together 
on  the  stone,  and  took  off  their  helms  to  cool  their 
heated  faces,  and  kissed  each  other  with  brotherly 
ardor. 

When  they  had  rested  and  conversed  long  in  the 
most  loving  amity,  and  their  squires  had  salved 
and  bandaged  their  wounds,  they  mounted  and  rode 
towards  Camelot. 

Near  the  gates  of  the  city  they  met  Gawaine 
and  Gaheris,  who  were  setting  out  in  search  of 
Tristram,  having  promised  King  Arthur  never  to 
return  till  they  could  bring  the  valiant  knight  of 
Cornwall  with  them. 

"  Return,  then,  for  your  quest  is  done,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  I  have  found  Sir  Tristram,  and  here 
he  is  in  person." 

"  Then,  by  ray  life,  you  are  heartily  welcome ! " 
cried  Gawaine.     "  You  have  eased  me  from  great 


358  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

labor,  and  there  are  ten  others  seeking  you.  Why 
came  you  hither  of  yourself?" 

"  I  had  a  challenge  with  Sir  Palamides  to  do 
battle  with  him  at  Lanceor's  tomb  this  dav,  and 
I  know  not  why  he  has  failed  me.  By  lucky  chance 
mv  lord  Lancelot  and  I  met  there,  and  well  have 
we  tried  each  other's  strength.'^ 

Thus  conversing  they  came  to  the  court,  where 
King  Arthur,  when  he  learned  the  name  of  Lan- 
celot's companion,  was  filled  with  joy.  Taking 
Tristram  warmly  by  both  hands,  he  welcomed  him 
to  Camelot. 

"  There  is  no  other  man  in  the  world  whom  I 
would  so  gladly  have  here,"  he  said.  "  Much  have 
you  been  sought  for  since  you  left  the  tournament, 
but  in  vain.     I  would  fain  learn  your  adventures." 

These  Tristram  told,  and  the  king  was  amazed 
when  he  learned  that  it  was  he  who  had  overthrown 
him  at  the  Castle  of  Hard  Rock.  Then  he  told  of 
his  pursuit  of  the  knight  with  the  covered  shield, 
and  of  the  deeds  he  had  done. 

"  By  our  faith,"  cried  Gawaine,  Bleoberis,  and 
Kay,  "we  can  testify  to  that,  for  he  left  us  all  on 
the  ground." 

"  Aha  !  who  could  this  strong  fellow  have  been  ?  " 
asked  Arthur.     "  Did  any  of  you  know  him  ?  '' 

They  all  declared  that  he  was  a  stranger  to  them, 
though  Tristram  kept  silent. 

"  If  you  know  not,  I  do ;  it  was  Lancelot  or 
none,"  cried  the  king. 

"  In  faith,  I  fancy  so,"  said  Tristram,  "  for  I 
found  him  to-day,  and  we  had  a  four  hours'  fight 
tosrether,  before  each  found  out  the  other." 


THE  KNIGHT  WITH  THE  COVERED  SHIELD.      359 

"  So,'^  they  all  cried,  "  it  is  he  who  has  beguiled 
us  with  his  covered  shield !  " 

"  You  say  truly,"  answered  Lancelot,  with  a 
smile.  "  And  I  called  myself  an  enemy  of  King 
Arthur  so  that  none  should  suspect  me.  I  was  in 
search  of  sport.'^ 

"  That  is  an  old  trick  of  yours,"  said  Arthur. 

"  One  must  go  in  disguise  in  these  days,  or  go 
untried,''  laughed  Lancelot. 

Then  Queen  Guenever,  and  many  ladies  of  the 
court,  learning  that  Tristram  was  there,  came  and 
bade  him  welcome,  ladies  and  knights  together 
crying,  "  Welcome,  Sir  Tristram !  welcome  to 
Camelot ! " 

"  Welcome,  indeed,"  said  Arthur,  "  to  one  of  the 
best  and  gentlest  knights  of  the  world,  and  the 
man  of  highest  esteem.  For  of  all  modes  of  hunt- 
ing, 3^ou  bear  the  prize,  and  of  all  bugle  hunting 
calls  you  are  the  origin,  and  all  the  terms  of  hunt- 
ing and  hawking  began  with  you;  on  all  instru- 
ments of  music  no  man  surpasses  you :  therefore, 
you  are  trebly  welcome  to  this  court.  And  here 
I  pray  you  to  grant  me  a  boon." 

"  I  am  at  your  command,"  said  Tristram. 

"  It  is  that  you  abide  in  my  court,  and  be  one 
of  my  knights." 

"  That  I  am  loath  to  do,  for  I  have  work  laid 
out  elsewhere." 

"  Yet  vou  have  passed  vour  word.  You  shall 
not  say  me  nay." 

"  Then  be  it  as  you  will,"  said  Tristram. 

These  words  spoken,  Arthur  took  Tristram  by 
the  hand  and  led  him  to  the  Round  Table,  going 


360  HOW  TRISTRAM  CAME  TO  CAMELOT. 

with  him  round  its  circle,  and  looking  into  every 
seat  that  lacked  a  knight.  When  at  length  he 
came  to  that  in  which  Sir  Marhaus  had  formerly 
sat,  he  saw  there  engraved  in  letters  of  gold,  "  This 
is  the  seat  of  the  noble  knight  Sir  Tristram/* 

Then  xArthur  njade  Tristram  a  Knight  of  the 
Round  Table  with  noble  ceremony  and  great  pomp, 
and  with  feasts  that  lasted  many  days.  Glad  were 
all  there  to  have  a  knight  of  such  prowess  and  high 
esteem  in  their  company,  and  many  friends  Tris- 
tram made  among  his  new  brothers-in-arms. 

But  chief  of  all  these  was  Lancelot,  and  for  days 
together  Lancelot  and  Tristram  kept  genial  com- 
pany, while  their  brotherhood  gave  joy  to  all,  and 
most  of  all  to  King  Arthur,  who  felt  that  the  glory 
of  his  reign  was  now  at  its  height,  and  that  two  such 
knights  as  these  would  spread  the  renown  of  the 
Round  Table  throughout  the  world. 


END  OF  VOL.   I. 


KING  ARTHUR 


AND   THE 


KNIGHTS  OF  THE  ROUND  TABLE 


A  MODERNIZED  VERSION  OF 
THE    **MORTE    DARTHUR." 


BY 

CHARLES    MORRIS. 

AUTHOK  or  '*  KALP-HOUKS  WITH  THB  BBtT  AMERICAN  AUTHORS/'  ETC 


VOL.  II. 


PHILADBLPHIAt 

J.  B.  LIPPINCOTT    COMPANY. 

1908, 


Oopyrlffht,  1891,  by  J.  B.  Lippinoott  Compant. 


1 L^  '4Z 


i    I— 


<  ■ ., 


_1  .    _!-_ 


o 

-4 


.1    -.F^ 


*^ 


"£_' " "-' " 


^¥" 


vTiii— r 


Oopyrlffht,  1B91,  by  J.  B.  Lifpinoott  Compxnt 


CONTENTS  TO  VOLUME  II. 


BOOK  VIII. 
TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

CHAPTEB.  PAQB. 

I. — The  Treachery  of  King  Mark 9 

II. — How  Tristram  befooled  Dinadan 23 

III. — On  the  Road  to  Lonazef 36 

IV. — How  Palamides  fared  at  the  Red  City  . .  46 

V. — The  Tournament  at  Lonazef 55 

VI. — The  Second  Day  of  the  Tournament 70 

VII. — The  Woes  of  Two  Lovers 83 

VIII. — The  Rivalry  of  Tristram  and  Palamides  ...  92 

BOOK  IX. 

THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

I. — The  Enchanted  Castle  of  King  Pellam.  . .   117 

II. — The  Marvel  of  the  Floating  Sword 125 

III. — How  Galahad  got  his  Shield 141 

IV. — The  Temptation  of  Sir  Percivale 155 

V. — The  Strange  Adventures  of  Sir  Bors 173 

VI. — The  Adventure  of  the  Magic  Ship 195 

VII. — ^How  Lancelot  saw  the  Sangreal 207 

VIII. — The  Deeds  of  the  Three  Chosen  Knights.  .  217 

1 


11  CONTENTS   TO    VOLUME    II. 

BOOK  X. 

THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

CHAPTER.  PAQB. 

I. — The  Poisoning  of  Sib  Patrise 226 

II. — ^The  Lilt  Maid  of  Astolat 239 

III. — How  Elaine  died  for  Love 251 

IV. — The  Chevalier  of  the  Cart 260 

BOOK  XI. 

THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

I. — The  Trapping  of  the  Lion 280 

II. — The  Rescue  of  the  Queen 288 

III. — The  Return  of  Guenever 297 

IV. — The  War  Between  Arthur  and  Lancelot.  .  314 

V. — The  Sting  of  the  Viper 323 

VI. — The  Passing  of  Arthur 335 

VII.-— The  Death  of  Lancelot  and  Guenever  ....  339 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


KING  ARTHUR.     VOL.  II. 

PAGE 

Conway  Castle Frontispiece. 

The  Round  Table  of  King  Arthur 16 

Marriage  of  Sir  Tristham 24 

The  Departure 93 

On  the  Quest  of  the  Holy  Grail 118 

Oath  of  Knighthood 144 

Sir  Galahad  Fighting  the  Seven  Sins 153 

The  Magic  Ship 198 

Sir  Galahad's  Quest  of  the  Holy  Grail 217 

Salisbury  Cathedral 225 

Elaine 259 

Sir  Lancelot  in  the  Queen's  Chamber 287 

The  Old  Kitchen  of  Glastonbury  Abbey 345 


KING  ARTHUR 

AND  THE  • 

KNIGHTS  OF  THE  ROUND  TABLE, 


BOOK  VIII. 

TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE   TREACHERY  OF   KING  MARK. 

The  story  of  Tristram's  valorous  deeds,  and  of 
the  high  honor  in  which  he  was  held  at  Camelot, 
in  good  time  came  to  Cornwall,  where  it  filled  King 
Mark's  soul  with  revengeful  fury,  and  stirred  the 
heart  of  La  Belle  Isolde  to  the  warmest  love.  The 
coward  king,  indeed,  in  his  jealous  hatred  of  his 
nephew,  set  out  in  disguise  for  England,  with  mur- 
derous designs  against  Tristram  should  an  oppor- 
tunity occur. 

Many  things  happened  to  him  there,  and  he  was 
brought  into  deep  disgrace,  but  the  story  of  his 
adventures  may  be  passed  over  in  brief  review,  lest 
the  reader  should  find  it  wearisome. 

Not  far  had  he  ridden  on  English  soil  before  he 
met  with  Dinadan,  who,  in  his  jesting  humor,  soon 

9 


10       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

played  him  a  merry  trick.  For  he  arrayed  Dagonet, 
the  king^s  fool,  in  a  suit  of  armor,  which  he  made 
Mark  believe  was  Lancelot's.  Thus  prepared,  Dag- 
onet rode  to  meet  him  and  challenged  him  to  a 
joust.  But  King  Mark,  on  seeing  what  he  fancied 
was  Lancelot's  shield,  turned  and  fled  at  headlong 
speed,  followed  by  the  fool  and  his  comrades  with 
hunting  cries  and  laughter  till  the  forest  rang  with 
the  noise. 

Escaping  at  length  from  this  merry  chase,  the 
trembling  dastard  made  his  way  to  Camelot,  where 
he  hoped  some  chance  would  arise  to  aid  him  in  his 
murderous  designs  on  Tristram.  But  a  knight  of 
his  own  train,  named  Sir  Amant,  had  arrived  there 
before  him,  and  accused  him  of  treason  to  the  king, 
without  telling  who  he  was. 

"  This  is  a  charge  that  must  be  settled  by  wager 
of  battle,"  said  King  Arthur.  "  The  quarrel  is 
between  you;  you  must  decide  it  with  sword  and 
spear.'' 

In  the  battle  that  followed.  Sir  Amant,  by 
unlucky  fortune,  was  run  through,  and  fell  from  his 
horse  with  a  mortal  wound. 

"Heaven  has  decided  in  my  favor,"  cried  King 
Mark.  "  But  here  I  shall  no  longer  stay,  for  it 
does  not  seem  a  safe  harbor  for  honest  knights." 

He  thereupon  rode  away,  fearing  that  Dinadan 
would  reveal  his  name.  Yet  not  far  had  he  gone 
before  Lancelot  came  in  furious  haste  after  him. 

"  Turn  again,  thou  recreant  king  and  knight," 
he  loudly  called.  "  To  Arthur's  court  you  must 
return,  whether  it  is  your  will  or  not.  We  know 
you,  villain.     Sir  Amant  has  told  your  name  and 


THE  TREACHERY  OP  KING  MARK.  11 


purpose;    and,  by  my  faith,  I  am  strongly  moved 
to  kill  you  on  the  spot. 

Fair  sir,"  asked  King  Mark,  "what  is  your 


ail  yuu.  uu   uie  spui, '^ 

name  ?  " 

iMLy   lining  is    uaw 


My  name  is  Lancelot  du  Lake.  Defend  your- 
self, dog  and  dastard. 

On  hearing  this  dreaded  name,  and  seeing  Lan- 
celot riding  upon  him  with  spear  in  rest.  King 
Mark  tumbled  like  a  sack  of  grain  from  his  saddle 
to  the  earth,  crying  in  terror,  "  I  yield  me,  Sir 
Lancelot  I  I  yield  me ! "  and  begging  piteously 
for  mercy. 

"  Thou  villain !  "  thundered  Lancelot,  "  I  would 
give  much  to  deal  thee  one  buffet  for  the  love  of 
Tristram  and  Isolde.     Mount,  dog,  and  follow  me." 

Mark  hastened  to  obey,  and  was  thus  brought  like 
a  slave  back  to  Arthur's  court,  where  he  made  such 
prayers  and  promises  that  in  the  end  the  king 
forgave  him,  but  only  on  condition  that  he  would 
enter  into  accord  with  Tristram,  and  remove  from 
him  the  sentence  of  banishment.  All  this  King 
Mark  volubly  promised  and  swore  to  abide  by, 
though  a  false  heart  underlay  his  fair  words.  But 
Tristram  gladly  accepted  the  proffered  truce  with 
his  old  enemy,  for  his  heart  burned  with  desire  to 
see  his  lady  love  again. 

Soon  afterwards  Dinadan,  with  Dagonet  and  his 
companions,  came  to  court,  and  great  was  the 
laughter  and  jesting  at  King  Mark  when  they  told 
the  story  of  his  flight  from  Arthur's  fool. 

"  This  is  all  very  well  for  you  stay-at-homes," 
cried  Mark ;  "  but  even  a  fool  in  Lancelot's  armor 
is  not  to  be  played  with.     As  it  was,  Dagonet  paid 


12       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

for  his  masquerade,  for  he  met  a  knight  who 
brought  him  like  a  log  to  the  ground,  and  all  these 
laughing  fellows  with  him." 

"  Who  was  that  ?  "  asked  King  Arthur. 

"I  can  tell  you,"  said  Dinadan.  "It  was  Sir 
Palamides.  I  followed  him  through  the  forest,  and 
a  lively  time  we  had  in  company." 

"  Aha !   then  you  have  had  adventures." 

"  Rare  ones.  We  met  a  knight  before  Morgan 
le  Fay's  castle.  You  know  the  custom  there,  to 
let  no  knight  pass  without  a  hard  'fight  for  it. 
This  stranger  made  havoc  with  the  custom,  for 
he  overthrew  ten  of  your  sister's  knights,  and  killed 
some  of  them.  He  afterwards  tilted  with  Pala- 
mides for  offering  to  help  him,  and  gave  that 
doughty  fellow  a  sore  wound." 

"  Who  was  this  mighty  champion  Not  Lance- 
lot or  Tristram  ?  "   asked  the  king,  looking  around. 

"  On  our  faith  we  had  no  hand  in  it,"  they  both 
answered. 

"  It  was  the  knight  next  to  them  in  renown," 
answered  Dinadan. 

"  Lamorak  of  Wales  ?  " 

"  No  less.  And,  my  faith,  a  sturdy  fellow  he  is. 
I  left  him  and  Palamides  the  best  of  friends." 

"  I  hope,  then,  to  see  the  pair  of  them  at  next 
week's  tournament,"  said  the  king. 

Alas  for  Lamorak !  Better  for  him  far  had  he 
kept  away  from  that  tournament.  His  gallant 
career  was  near  its  end,  for  treacherv  and  hatred 
were  soon  to  seal  his  fate.  This  sorrowful  story 
it  is  now  our  sad  duty  to  tell. 

Lamorak  had  long  loved  Margause,  the  queen 


THE  TREACHERY  OP  KING  MARK.  13 

of  Orkney,  Arthur's  sister  and  the  mother  of  Ga- 
waine  and  his  brethren.  For  this  they  hated  him, 
and  with  treacherous  intent  invited  their  mother 
to  a  castle  near  Camelot,  as  a  lure  to  her  lover. 
Soon  after  the  tournament,  at  which  Lamorak  won 
the  prize  of  valor,  and  redoubled  the  hatred  of 
Gawaine  and  his  brothers  by  overcoming  them  in 
the  fray,  word  was  brought  to  the  victorious  knight 
that  Margause  was  near  at  hand  and  wished  to 
see  him. 

With  a  lover's  ardor,  he  hastened  to  the  castle 
where  she  was,  but,  as  they  sat  in  the  queen's  apart- 
ment in  conversation,  the  door  was  suddenly  flung 
open,  and  Gaheris,  one  of  the  murderous  brethren, 
burst  in,  full  armed  and  with  a  naked  sword  in  his 
hand.  Rushing  in  fury  on  the  unsuspecting  lovers, 
with  one  dreadful  blow  he  struck  off  his  mother's 
head,  crimsoning  Tiamorak  with  her  blood.  He 
next  assailed  Lamorak,  who,  being  unarmed,  was 
forced  to  fly  for  his  life,  and  barely  escaped. 

The  tidings  of  this  dread  affair  filled  the  land 
with  dismay,  and  many  of  the  good  knights  of 
Arthur's  court  threatened  reprisal.  Arthur  himself 
was  full  of  wrath  at  the  death  of  his  sister.  Yet 
those  were  davs  when  law  ruled  not,  but  force  was 
master,  and  retribution  only  came  from  the  strong 
hand  and  the  ready  sword.  This  was  Lamorak's 
quarrel,  and  the  king,  though  he  vowed  to  protect 
him  from  his  foes,  declared  that  the  good  knight 
of  Wales  must  seek  retribution  with  his  own  hand. 

He  gained  death,  alas!  instead  of  revenge,  for 
his  foes  proved  too  vigilant  for  him,  and  overcame 
him  by  vile  treachery.     Watching  his  movements. 


14       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

they  lay  in  ambush  for  him  at  a  difficult  place, 
and  as  he  was  passing,  unsuspicious  of  danger,  they 
set  suddenly  upon  him,  slew  his  horse,  and  assailed 
him  on  foot. 

Gawaine,  Mordred,  and  Gaheris  formed  this  am- 
bush, for  the  noble-minded  Gareth  had  refused  to 
take  part  in  their  murderous  plot;  and  with  des- 
perate fury  they  assaulted  the  noble  Welsh  knight, 
who,  for  three  hours,  defended  himself  against  their 
utmost  strength.  But  at  the  last  Mordred  dealt 
him  a  death-blow  from  behind,  and  when  he  fell 
in  death  the  three  murders  hewed  him  with  their 
swords  till  scarce  a  trace  of  the  human  form  was 
left. 

Thus  perished  one  of  the  noblest  of  Arthur's 
knights,  and  thus  was  done  one  of  the  most  villan- 
ous  deeds  of  blood  ever  known  in  those  days  of 
chivalrous  war. 

Before  the  death  of  Lamorak  another  event  hap- 
pened at  Arthur's  court  which  must  here  be  told, 
for  it  was  marvellous  in  itself,  and  had  in  it  the 
promise  of  wondrous  future  deeds. 

One  dav  there  came  to  the  court  at  Camelot  a 
knight  attended  by  a  young  squire.  When  he  had 
disarmed  he  went  to  the  king  and  asked  him  to 
give  the  honor  of  knighthood  to  his  squire. 

"  What  claim  has  he  to  it  ? "  asked  the  king. 
"  Of  what  lineage  is  he?'' 

"  He  is  the  youngest  son  of  King  Pellinore,  and 
brother  to  Sir  Lamorak.  He  is  my  brother  also; 
for  my  name  is  Aglavale,  and  I  am  of  the  same 
descent.'* 

"What  is  his  name?" 


THE  TREACHERY  OF  KING  MARK.  15 

"  Percivale/^ 

"  Then  for  my  love  of  Lamorak,  and  the  love  I 
bore  your  father,  he  shall  be  made  a  knight  to- 
morrow/* 

So  when  the  morrow  dawned,  the  king  ordered 
that  the  youth  should  be  brought  into  the  great 
hall,  and  there  he  knighted  him,  dealing  him  the 
accolade  with  his  good  sword  Excalibur. 

And  so  the  day  passed  on  till  the  dinner-hour, 
when  the  king  seated  himself  at  the  head  of  the 
table,  while  down  its  sides  were  many  knights  of 
prowess  and  renown.  Percivale,  the  new-made 
knight,  was  given  a  seat  among  the  squires  and 
the  untried  knights,  who  sat  at  the  lower  end  of 
the  great  dining-table. 

But  in  the  midst  of  their  dinner  an  event  of 
great  strangeness  occurred.  For  there  came  into 
the  hall  one  of  the  queen's  maidens,  who  was  of 
high  birth,  but  who  had  been  bom  dumb,  and  in 
all  her  life  had  spoken  no  word.  Straight  across 
the  hall  she  walked,  while  all  gazed  at  her  in  mute 
surprise,  till  she  came  to  where  Percivale  sat. 
Then  she  took  him  by  the  hand,  and  spoke  in  a 
voice  that  rang  through  the  hall  with  the  clearness 
of  a  trumpet, — 

"Arise,  Sir  Percivale,  thou  noble  knight  and 
warrior  of  God's  own  choosing.  Arise  and  come 
with  me." 

He  rose  in  deep  surprise,  while  all  the  others 
sat  in  dumb  wonder  at  this  miracle.  To  the  Round 
Table  she  led  him,  and  to  the  right  side  of  the  seat 
perilous,  in  which  no  knight  had  hitherto  dared 
to  sit. 


16       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOIrBE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


66 
66 


Fair  knight,  take  here  your  seat/'  she  said. 

This  sent  belongs  to  you,  and  to  none  other,  and 
shall  be  yours  until  a  greater  than  you  shall  come." 

This  said,  she  departed  aiid  asked  for  a  priest. 
Then  was  she  confessed  and  given  the  sacrament, 
and  forthwith  died.  But  the  king  and  all  his  court 
gazed  with  wonder  on  Sir  Percivale,  and  asked 
themselves  what  all  this  meant,  and  for  what  great 
career  God  had  picked  out  this  youthful  knight, 
for  such  a  miracle  no  man  there  had  ever  seen 
before. 

Meanwhile,  King  Mark  had  gone  back  to  Corn- 
wall, and  with  him  went  Sir  Tristram,  at  King 
Arthur's  request,  though  not  till  Arthur  had  made 
the  Cornish  king  swear  on  Holy  Scripture  to  do 
his  guest  no  harm,  but  hold  him  in  honor  and 
esteem. 

Lancelot,  however,  was  full  of  dread  and  anger 
when  he  heard  what  had  occurred,  and  he  told 
King  Mark  plainly  that  if  he  did  mischief  to  Sir 
Tristram  he  would  slay  him  with  his  own  hands. 

"  Bear  this  well  in  mind,  sir  king,"  he  said, 
"  for  I  have  a  way  of  keeping  my  word." 

"  I  have  sworn  before  King  Arthur  to  treat  him 
honorably,"  answered  Mark.  "  I,  too,  have  a  way 
of  keeping  my  word." 

A  way,  I  doubt  not,"  said  Lancelot,  scornfully ; 

but  not  my  way.  Your  reputation  for  truth  needs 
mending.  And  all  men  know  for  what  you  came 
into  this  country.  Therefore,  take  heed  what  you 
do." 

Then  Mark  and  Tristram  departed,  and  soon 
after  they  reached   Cornwall   a  damsel   was   sent 


66 
66 


THE  TREACHERY  OF  KING  MARK.  17 

to  Camelot  with  news  of  their  safe  arrival,  and 
bearing  letters  from  Tristram  to  Arthur  and  Lan- 
celot. These  they  answered  and  sent  the  damsel 
back,  the  burden  of  Lancelots  letter  being,  "Be- 
ware of  King  Fox,  for  his  ways  are  ways  of  wiles/^ 

They  also  sent  letters  to  King  Mark,  threatening 
him  if  he  should  do  aught  to  Tristram's  injury. 
These  letters  worked  harm  only,  for  they  roused 
the  evil  spirit  in  the  Cornish  king's  soul,  stir- 
ring him  up  to  anger  and  thirst  for  revenge.  He 
thereupon  wrote  to  Arthur,  bidding  him  to  meddle 
with  his  own  concerns,  and  to  take  heed  to  his  wife 
and  his  knights,  which  would  give  him  work  enough 
to  do.  As  for  Sir  Tristram,  he  said  that  he  held 
him  to  be  his  mortal  enemy. 

He  wrote  also  to  Queen  Guenever,  his  letter  being 
full  of  shameful  charges  of  illicit  relations  with 
Sir  Lancelot,  and  dishonor  to  her  lord,  the  king. 
Full  of  wrath  at  these  vile  charges,  Guenever  took 
the  letter  to  Lancelot,  who  was  half  beside  himself 
with  anger  on  reading  it. 

"  You  cannot  get  at  him  to  make  him  eat  his 
words,"  said  Dinadan,  whom  Lancelot  took  into 
his  confidence.  "  And  if  you  seek  to  bring  him  to 
terms  with  pen  and  ink,  you  will  find  that  his  vil- 
lany  will  get  the  better  of  your  honesty.  Yet  there 
are  other  ways  of  dealing  with  cowardly  curs. 
Leave  him  to  me;  I  will  make  him  wince.  I  will 
write  a  mocking  lay  of  King  Mark  and  his  doings, 
and  will  send  a  harper  to  sing  it  before  him  at  his 
court.  When  this  noble  king  has  heard  my  song  I 
fancy  he  will  admit  that  there  are  other  ways  of 
gaining  revenge  besides  writing  scurrilous  letters.'^ 

II— 2 


18       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

A  stinging  lay,  indeed,  was  that  which  Dinadan 
composed.  When  done  he  taught  it  to  a  harper 
named  Eliot,  who  in  his  turn  taught  it  to  other 
harpers,  and  these,  by  the  orders  of  Arthur  and 
Lancelot,  went  into  Wales  and  Cornwall  to  sing 
it  everywhere. 

Meanwhile  King  Mark's  crown  had  been  in  great 
danger.  For  his  country  had  been  invaded  by  an 
army  from  Session,  led  by  a  noted  warrior  named 
Elias,  who  drove  the  forces  of  Cornwall  from  the 
field  and  besieged  the  king  in  his  castle  of  Tintagil. 
And  now  Tristram  came  nobly  to  the  rescue.  At 
the  head  of  the  Cornish  forces  he  drove  back  the 
besiegers  with  heavy  loss,  and  challenged  Elias  to 
a  single  combat  to  end  the  war.  The  challenge  was 
accepted,  and  a  long  and  furious  combat  followed, 
but  in  the  end  Elias  was  slain,  and  the  remnant 
of  his  army  forced  to  surrender. 

This  great  service  added  to  the  seeming  accord 
between  Tristram  and  the  king,  but  in  his  heart 
Mark  nursed  all  his  old  bitterness,  and  hated  him 
the  more  that  he  had  helped  him.  His  secret  fury 
soon  found  occasion  to  flame  to  the  surface.  For  at 
the  feast  which  was  given  in  honor  of  the  victory, 
Eliot,  the  harper,  appeared,  and  sang  before  the 
king  and  his  lords  the  lay  that  Dinadan  had  made. 

This  was  so  full  of  ridicule  and  scorn  of  King 
Mark  that  he  leaped  from  his  seat  in  a  fury  of 
wrath  before  the  harper  had  half  finished. 

"  Thou  villanous  twanger  of  strings ! ''  he  cried. 
"  WTiat  hound  sent  you  into  this  land  to  insult  me 
with  your  scurrilous  songs?" 

"I  am  a  minstrel,^*  said  Eliot,  " and  must  obey 


THE  TREACHERY  OB^  KING  MARK.  19 

the  orders  of  my  lord.  Sir  Dinadan  made  this 
song,  if  you  would  know,  and  bade  me  sing  it  here." 
That   jesting   fool ! "    cried    Mark,   in    wrath. 

As  for  you,  fellow,  you  shall  go  free  through 
minstrels'  license.  But  if  you  lose  any  time  in 
getting  out  of  this  country  you  may  find  that  Cor- 
nish air  is  not  good  for  you." 

The  harper  took  this  advice  and  hastened  away, 
bearing  letters  from  Tristram  to  Lancelot  and 
Dinadan.  But  King  Mark  turned  the  weight  of 
his  anger  against  Tristram,  whom  he  believed  had 
instigated  this  insult,  with  the  design  to  set  all  the 
nobles  of  his  own  court  laughing  at  him.  And 
well  he  knew  that  the  villanous  lay  would  be  sung 
throughout  the  land,  and  that  he  would  be  made 
the  jest  of  all  the  kingdom. 

"  They  have  their  sport  now,"  he  said.  "  Mine 
will  come.  Tristram  of  Lyonesse  shall  pay  dearly 
for  this  insult.  And  all  that  hold  with  him  shall 
learn  that  King  Mark  of  Cornwall  is  no  child's 
bauble  to  be  played  with." 

The  evil-minded  king  was  not  long  in  putting 
his  project  in  execution.  At  a  tournament  which 
was  held  soon  afterwards  Tristram  was  badly 
wounded,  and  King  Mark,  with  great  show  of 
sorrow,  had  him  borne  to  a  castle  near  by,  where 
he  took  him  under  his  own  care  as  nurse  and  leech. 

Here  he  gave  him  a  sleeping  draught,  and  had 
him  borne  while  slumbering  to  another  castle,  where 
he  was  placed  in  a  strong  prison  cell,  under  the 
charge  of  stern  keepers. 

The  disappearance  of  Tristram  made  a  great  stir 
in  the  kingdom.     La  Belle  Isolde,  fearing  treachery, 


20       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

went  to  a  faithful  knight  named  Sir  Sadok,  and 
begged  him  to  try  and  discover  what  had  become 
of  the  missing  knight.  Sadok  set  himself  diligently 
to  work,  and  soon  learned  that  Tristram  was  held 
captive  in  the  castle  of  Lyonesse.  Then  he  went 
to  Dinas,  the  seneschal,  and  others,  and  told  them 
what  had  been  done,  at  which  they  broke  into  open 
rebellion  against  King  Mark,  and  took  possession 
of  all  the  towns  and  castles  in  the  country  of  Lyon- 
esse, filling  them  with  their  followers. 

But  while  the  rebellious  army  was  preparing  to 
march  on  Tintagil,  and  force  King  Mark  to  set 
free  his  prisoner,  Tristram  was  delivered  by  the 
young  knight  Sir  Percivale,  who  had  come  thither 
in  search  of  adventures,  and  had  heard  of  King 
Mark's  base  deed.  Great  was  the  joy  between  these 
noble  knights,  and  Tristram  said, — 

"  Will  you  abide  in  these  marches,  Sir  Percivale  ? 
If  so,  I  will  keep  you  company.'^ 

"  Nay,  dear  friend,  I  cannot  tarry  here.  Duty 
calls  me  into  Wales." 

But  before  leaving  Cornwall  he  went  to  King 
Mark,  told  him  what  he  had  done,  and  threatened 
him  with  the  revenge  of  all  honorable  knights  if 
he  sought  again  to  injure  his  noble  nephew. 

What  would  you  have  me  do? "  asked  the  king. 

Shall  I  harbor  a  man  who  openly  makes  love  to 
my  wife  and  queen  ?  " 

"  Is  there  any  shame  in  a  nephew  showing  an 
open  affection  for  his  uncle's  wife  ?  "  asked  Perci- 
vale. "  No  man  will  dare  say  that  so  noble  a  war- 
rior as  Sir  Tristram  would  go  beyond  the  borders 
of  sinless  love,  or  will  dare  accuse  the  virtuous 


THE  TREACHERY  OF  KING  MARK.  21 

lady  La  Belle  Isolde  of  lack  of  chastity.  You  have 
let  jealousy  run  away  with  your  wisdom,  King 
Mark.^' 

So  saying,  he  departed;  but  his  words  had  little 
effect  on  King  Mark's  mind.  No  sooner  had  Perci- 
vale  gone  than  he  began  new  devices  to  gratify  his 
hatred  of  his  nephew.  He  sent  word  to  Dinas,  the 
seneschal,  under  oath,  that  he  intended  to  go  to  the 
Pope  and  join  the  war  against  the  infidel  Saracens, 
which  he  looked  upon  as  a  nobler  service  than  that 
of  raising  the  people  against  their  lawful  king. 

So  earnest  were  his  professions  that  Dinas  be- 
lieved him  and  dismissed  his  forces,  but  no  sooner 
was  this  done  than  King  Mark  set  aside  his  oath 
and  had  Tristram  again  privately  seized  and 
imprisoned. 

This  new  outrage  filled  the  whole  realm  with 
tumult  and  rebellious  feeling.  La  Belle  Isolde  was 
at  first  thrown  into  the  deepest  grief,  and  then  her 
heart  swelled  high  with  resolution  to  live  no  longer 
with  the  dastard  who  called  her  wife.  Tristram 
at  the  same  time  privately  sent  her  a  letter,  advis- 
ing her  to  leave  the  court  of  her  villanous  lord,  and 
offering  to  go  with  her  to  Arthur's  realm,  if  she 
would  have  a  vessel  privately  made  ready. 

The  queen  thereupon  had  an  interview  with  Dinas 
and  Sadok,  and  begged  them  to  seize  and  imprison 
the  king,  since  she  was  resolved  to  escape  from  his 
power. 

Furious  at  the  fox-like  treachery  of  the  king, 
these  knights  did  as  requested,  for  they  formed  a 
plot  by  which  Mark  was  privately  seized,  and  they 
imprisoned  him  secretly  in  a  strong  dungeon.     At 


22       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

the  same  time  Tristram  was  delivered,  and  soon 
sailed  openly  away  from  Cornwall  with  La  Belle 
Isolde,  gladly  shaking  the  dust  of  that  realm  of 
treachery  from  his  feet. 

In  due  time  the  vessel  touched  shore  in  King 
Arthur's  dominions,  and  gladly  throbbed  the  heart 
of  the  long-unhappy  queen  as  her  feet  touched 
that  free  and  friendly  soil.  As  for  Tristram,  never 
was  lover  fuller  of  joy,  and  life  seemed  to  him  to 
have  just  begun. 

Not  long  had  they  landed  when  a  knightly  chance 
brought  Lancelot  into  their  company.  Warm  in- 
deed was  the  greeting  of  those  two  noble  compan- 
ions, and  glad  the  welcome  which  Lancelot  gave 
Isolde  to  English  soil. 

"  You  have  done  well,"  he  said,  "  to  fly  from  that 
wolf's  den.  There  is  no  noble  knight  in  the  world 
but  hates  King  Mark  and  will  honor  you  for  leaving 
his  palace  of  vile  devices.  Come  with  me,  you  shall 
be  housed  at  my  expense." 

Then  he  rode  with  them  to  his  own  castle  of 
Joyous  Gard,  a  noble  stronghold  which  he  had.  won 
with  his  own  hands.  A  royal  castle  it  was,  gar- 
nished and  provided  with  a  richness  which  no  king 
or  queen  could  surpass.  Here  Lancelot  bade  them 
use  everything  as  their  own,  and  charged  all  his 
people  to  love  and  honor  them  as  they  would  himself. 

"  Joyous  Gard  is  yours  as  long  as  you  will  honor 
it  by  making  it  your  home,"  he  said.  "  As  for  me, 
I  can  have  no  greater  joy  than  to  know  that  my 
castle  is  so  nobly  tenanted,  and  that  Tristram  of 
Lyonesse  and  Queen  Isolde  are  my  honored  guests.'* 

Leaving  them,  Lancelot  rode  to  Camelot,  where 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  23 

he  told  Arthur  and  Guenever  of  what  had  happened, 
much  to  their  joy  and  delight. 

"  By  my  crown/'  cried  Arthur,  joyfully,  "  the 
coming  of  Tristram  and  Isolde  to  my  realm  is  no 
everyday  event,  and  is  worthy  of  the  highest  honor. 
We  must  signalize  it  with  a  noble  tournament." 

Then  he  gave  orders  that  a  stately  passage-at- 
arms  should  be  held  on  May-day  at  the  castle  of 
Lonazep,  which  was  near  Joyous  Gard.  And  word 
was  sent  far  and  near  that  the  knights  of  his  own 
realm  of  Logris,  with  those  of  Cornwall  and  North 
Wales,  would  be  pitted  against  those  of  the  rest  of 
England,  of  Ireland  and  Scotland,  and  of  lands 
beyond  the  seas. 


CHAPTEB  II. 

HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN. 

Never  were  two  happier  lovers  than  Tristram 
and  Isolde  at  Joyous  Gard.  Their  days  were  spent 
in  feasting  and  merriment,  Isolde's  heart  overflow- 
ing with  joy  to  be  free  from  the  jealousy  of  her  ill- 
tempered  spouse,  and  Tristram's  to  have  his  lady 
love  to  himself,  far  from  treacherous  plots  and 
murderous  devices. 

Every  day  Tristram  went  hunting,  for  at  that 
time  men  say  he  was  the  best  courser  at  the  chase 
in  the  world,  and  the  rarest  blower  of  the  horn 
among  all  lovers  of  sport.     Prom  him,  it  is  said. 


I 


24      TRI9TRAM  A3n>  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GABD. 

came  all  the  temu  of  hunting  and  hawking,  the 
distinction  between  beasts  of  the  chase  and^  ver- 
min,  all  methods  of  dealing  with  honnds  and  with 
game,  and  all  the  blasts  of  the  chase  and  the  recall, 
80  that  thej  who  delist  in  huntsmen's  sport  will 
have  cause  to' the  world's  end  to  love  Sir  Tristram 
and  pray  for  his  80ul's  repose. 

Yet  Isolde  at  length  grew  anxious  for  his  wel- 
fare, and  said, — 

"I  marvel  that  vou  ride  so  much  to  the  chase 
unarmed.  This  is  a  countn*  not  well  known  to 
you,  and  one  that  contains  many  false  knights, 
while  King  Mark '  may  lay  some  plot  for  your 
destruction.  I  pray  you,  my  dear  love,  to  take  more 
heed  to  your  safety." 

This  advice  seemed  timely,  and  thereafter  Tris- 
tram rode  in  armor  to  the  chase,  and  followed  bv 
men  who  bore  his  shield  and  spear.  One  day,  a 
little  Ik; fore  the  month  of  May,  he  followed  a  hart 
eagerly,  but  as  the  animal  led  him  by  a  cool  wood- 
land spring,  he  alighted  to  quench  his  thirst  in  the 
gurgling  waters. 

lliiVii,  by  chance,  he  met  with  Dinadan,  who  had 
come  into  that  country  in  search  of  him.  Some 
words  of  greeting  passed  between  them,  after  which 
Dinadan  asked  him  his  name,  telling  his  own.  This 
confidence  Tristram  declined  to  return,  whereupon 
Dinadan  burst  out  in  anger. 

"  You  value  your  name  highly,  sir  knight,"  he 
said.  **  Do  you  design  to  ride  everywhere  under 
a  mask?  Such  a  foolish  knight  as  you  I  saw  but 
lately  lying  by  a  well.  He  seemed  like  one  asleep, 
and  no  word  could  be  got  from  him,  yet  all  the  time 


^'-^.  -■-. 

^ 

z::^ 
% 

V 

l 

* 
1 

^ 

^sC 

^'*' 

?> 

j# 

HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  25 

he  grinned  like  a  fool.  The  fellow  was  either  an 
idiot  or  a  lover,  I  know  not  which/^ 

"  And  are  not  you  a  lover  ?  ^^   asked  Tristram. 

"  Marry,  my  wit  has  saved  me  from  that  craf t.^^ 

"  That  is  not  well  said,"  answered  Tristram. 
"  A  knight  who  disdains  love  is  biit  half  a  man, 
and  not  half  a  warrior." 

"  I  am  ready  to  stand  by  my  creed,"  retorted 
Dinadan.  "As  for  you,  sirrah,  you  shall  tell  me 
your  name,  or  do  battle  with  me." 

"You  will  not  get  my  name  by  a  threat,  I 
promise  you  that,"  said  Tristram.  "I  shall  not 
fight  till  I  am  in  the  mood;  and  when  I  do,  you 
may  get  more  than  you  bargain  for." 

"  I  fear  you  not,  coward,"  said  Dinadan. 

"  If  you  are  so  full  of  valor,  here  is  your  man," 
said  Tristram,  pointing  to  a  knight  who  rode  along 
the  forest  aisle  towards  them.  "  He  looks  ready 
for  a  joust." 

"  On  my  life,  it  is  the  same  dull-plate  knave  I 
saw  lying  by  the  well,  neither  sleeping  nor  waking," 
said  Dinadan. 

"  This  is  not  the  first  time  I  have  seen  that  cov- 
ered shield  of  azure,"  said  Tristram.  "  This  knight 
is  Sir  Epinegris,  the  son  of  the  king  of  North- 
umberland, than  whom  the  land  holds  no  more 
ardent  lover,  for  his  heart  is  gone  utterly  out  to  the 
fair  daughter  of  the  king  of  Wales.  Now,  if  you 
care  to  find  whether  a  lover  or  a  non-lover  is  the 
better  knight,  here  is  your  opportunity." 

"  I  shall  teach  him  to  grin  to  more  purpose," 
said  Dinadan.     "  Stand  by  and  you  shall  see." 

Then,  as  the  lover  approached,  he  cried, — 


26       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  6ABD. 

"Halt,  sir  knight,  and  make  ready  to  jonst,  as 
is  the  custom  with  errant  knights/' 

Let  it  be  so,  if  you  will,''  answered  Epinegris. 

Since  it  is  the  custom  of  you  knight-errant  to 
make  a  man  joust  whether  he  will  or  no,  I  am  your 


man." 


u 


Make  ready,  then,  for  here  is  for  you." 

Then  they  spurred  their  horses  and  rode  to- 
gether at  full  speed,  Dinadan  breaking  his  spear, 
while  Epinegris  struck  him  so  shrewd  a  blow  that 
he  rolled  upon  the  earth. 

"  How  now  ?  "  cried  Tristram.  "  It  seems  to 
me  that  the  lover  has  best  sped." 

"  Will  you  play  the  coward  ?  "  queried  Dinadan. 
"  Or  will  you,  like  a  good  knight,  revenge  me  ?  " 

"I  am  not  in  the  mood,"  answered  Tristram. 
"  Take  your  horse,  Sir  Dinadan,  and  let  us  get 
away  from  here,  where  hard  blows  are  more  plenti- 
ful than  soft  beds." 

"  Defend  me  from  such  fellowship  as  yours !  " 
roared  Dinadan.  "  Take  your  way  and  I  will  take 
mine.     We  fit  not  well  together." 

"  I  might  give  you  news  of  Sir  Tristram." 

"  Sir  Tristram,  if  he  be  wise,  will  seek  better 
company.  I  can  do  without  your  news,  as  I  have 
had  to  do  without  your  help,"  and  he  rode  on  in 
high  dudgeon. 

"  Farewell,  then,"  cried  Tristram,  laughing.  "  It 
may  happen  we  shall  soon  meet  again." 

Tristram  rode  back  in  much  amusement  to  Joyous 
Gard,  but  on  coming  near  he  heard  in  the  neigh- 
boring town  a  great  outcry. 

"  What  means  this  noise  ?  "   he  asked. 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  27 

"  Sir/'  he  was  told,  "  a  knight  of  the  castle  has 
just  been  slain  by  two  strangers,  and  for  no  other 
cause  than  saying  that  Sir  Lancelot  was  a  better 
knight  than  Sir  Gawaine/' 

"  Who  would  dispute  that  ? ''  said  Tristram.  "  It 
is  a  small  cause  for  the  death  of  a  good  man,  that 
he  stands  for  his  lord's  fame." 

"  But  what  remedy  have  we  ?  "  said  the  towns- 
men. "  If  Lancelot  had  been  here,  these  fellows 
would  soon  have  been  called  to  a  reckoning.  But, 
alas,  he  is  away." 

"  I  may  do  something  in  his  service,"  answered 
Tristram.  "  If  I  take  his  place,  I  must  defend  his 
followers." 

Thereupon  he  sent  for  his  shield  and  spear,  and 
rode  in  pursuit  of  the  two  knights,  whom  he  over- 
took before  they  had  gone  far. 

"  Turn,  sir  dastards,"  he  cried,  "  and  amend  your 
misdeeds." 

"  What  amends  wish  you  ? "  asked  one  of  the 
knights.  "  We  are  ready  with  spear  and  sword  to 
make  good  whatever  we  have  done." 

He  rode  against  Tristram,  but  was  met  so  stur- 
dily in  mid  career  that  he  was  thrust  over  his  horse's 
tail.  Then  the  other  rode  against  him,  and  was 
served  in  the  same  rough  manner. 

They  rose  as  quickly  as  they  could,  drew  their 
swords,  and  challenged  him  to  battle  on  foot. 

You  shall  tell  me  your  names,"  he  said,  sternly. 

I  warn  you  that  if  it  comes  to  sword-play  you 
will  find  more  than  your  match.  Yet  you  may 
have  that  in  your  lineage  which  will  keep  you  from 
my  hands,  however  much  you  deserve  punishment 
for  your  evil  deeds." 


28       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLD.^  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


cc 


As  for  our  names,  we  dread  not  to  tell  them. 
We  are  Agravaine  and  Gaheris,  brothers  to  the  good 
knight  Gawaine,  and  nephews  of  King  Arthur." 

"  For  Arthur^s  sake,  then,  I  must  let  you  pass 
unscathed.  Yet  it  is  a  crying  shame  that  men  of 
such  good  blood  as  you  should  play  the  part  of 
murderers.  You  slew  among  you  a  better  knight 
than  the  best  of  your  kin,  Lamorak  de  Galis,  and 
I  would  to  God  I  had  been  by  at  that  time/' 

"  You  would  have  gone  the  same  road,''  said 
Gaheris. 

"  Not  without  more  knights  to  do  it  than  you 
had  in  your  murderous  erew.'^ 

With  these  words  he  turned  from  them  and  rode 
back  towards  Joyous  Gard.  When  he  had  gone  they 
•regained  their  horses,  and  feeling  themselves  safe 
in  the  saddle  their  courage  returned. 

"Let  us  pursue  this  boaster,"  they  said,  "and 
see  if  he  fares  so  much  better  than  Lamorak." 

They  did  so,  and  when  they  came  near  Tristram, 
who  was  jogging  slowly  along,  Agravaine  cried, — 

"  Turn,  traitor  knight ! " 

"  Traitor  in  your  teeth ! "  cried  Tristram,  in  a 
rage.  "  I  let  you  off  too  cheaply,  it  seems."  And 
drawing  his  sword,  he  turned  upon  Agravaine  and 
smote  him  so  fiercely  on  the  helm  that  he  fell 
swooning  from  his  horse,  with  a  dangerous  wound. 

Then  he  turned  to  Gaheris  and  dealt  him  a  blow 
that  in  like  manner  tumbled  him  from  his  saddle 
to  the  earth.  This  done,  Tristram  turned  and  rode 
into  the  castle,  leaving  them  like  dead  men  in  the 
road. 

Here  he  told  La  Belle  Isolde  of  his  several  adven- 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  29 

tures.     When  he  spoke  of  Dinadan,  she  asked, — 

"Was  it  not  he  that  made  the  song  about  King 
Mark  ?  " 

"  The  same/^  answered  Tristram.  "  He  is  the 
greatest  jester  at  Arthur's  court,  but  a  good  knight 
withal,  and  I  know  no  man  whom  I  like  better  as 
a  comrade/' 

"  Why  did  you  not  bring  him  with  you  ?  " 

"  No  need  of  that.  He  is  seeking  me  through 
this  country,  and  there  is  no  fear  that  he  will  give 
up  the  search  lightly." 

As  they  spoke,  a  servant  came  and  told  Tristram 
that  a  knight-errant  had  entered  the  town,  and 
described  the  device  on  his  shield. 

"  That  is  our  man  now,"  said  Tristram.  "  That 
is  Dinadan.  Send  for  him,  Isolde,  and  you  shall 
hear  the  merriest  knight  and  the  maddest  talker 
that  you  ever  spoke  with.  I  pray  you  to  make 
him  heartily  welcome,  for  he  is  a  cherished  friend 
of  mine." 

Then  Isolde  sent  into  the  town  with  a  message 
to  Dinadan,  begging  that  he  would  come  to  the 
castle  and  rest  a  while  there,  at  a  ladv's  wish. 

"  That  will  I,  with  a  good  will,"  answered  Din- 
adan.    "  I  were  but  a  churl  else." 

He  hastened  to  mount  and  ride  to  the  castle, 
and  here  he  was  shown  to  a  chamber  where  he  laid 
aside  his  armor.  Then  he  was  brought  into  the 
presence  of  La  Belle  Isolde,  who  courteously  bade 
him  welcome. 

"  Whence,  come  you,  and  what  name  do  you 
bear  ?  "    she  asked. 

"  Madam,"    he    answered,    "  I   am    from    King 


30       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


I 


Arthur's  court,  and  am  one  of  the  small  fry  of 
Round  Table  Knights.     My  name  is  Dinadan/' 

"And  why  came  you  hither ?'' 

"  I  am  seeking  my  old  friend  and  comrade,  Sir 
Tristram,  who  I  am  told  has  made  his  way  to  this 
country/' 

"  That  I  cannot  answer  for,''  said  Isolde.  "  He 
may  and  he  may  not  be  here.  Sir  Tristram  will 
be  found  where  love  leads  him." 

"  I  warrant  me  that.  Your  true  lover  has  no 
will  of  his  own,  but  is  led  like  an  ox,  with  a  ring 
in  his  nose.  I  marvel  what  juice  of  folly  gets 
into  the  pates  of  these  lovers  to  make  them  so  mad 
about  the  women." 

"  Why,  sir,"  said  Isolde,  "  can  it  be  that  you  are 
a  knight  and  no  lover?  I  fancy  that  there  can 
be  no  true  man-of-arms  who  seeks  not  by  his  deeds 
to  win  the  smiles  of  the  fair." 

"  They  who  care  to  be  fed  on  smiles  are  welcome 
to  them,  but  I  am  not  made  of  that  fashion,"  an- 
swered Dinadan.  "The  joy  of  love  is  too  short, 
and  the  sorrow  thereof  too  long,  to  please  my 
fancy." 

"  Say  you  so  ?  Yet  near  here  but  to-day  was  the 
good  knight  Sir  Bleoberis,  he  who  fought  with  three 
knights  at  once  for  a  maiden's  sake,  and  won  her 
before  the  king  of  Northumberland." 

"  I  know  him  for  a  worthy  fellow,"  said  Dinadan, 
"as  are  all  of  Lancelot's  kindred.  Yet  he  has 
crotchets  in  his  head,  like  all  that  crew." 

"  Now,  I  pray  you,"  said  Isolde,  "  will  you  not 
do  me  the  grace  to  fight  for  my  love  with  three 
knights  that  have  done  me  great  wrong?     As  you 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  31 

are  a  knight  of  King  Arthur^s,  you  can  never  say 
me  nay  in  such  a  duty/^ 

"  Can  I  not  ?  "  cried  Dinadan.  ''  This  much  I 
will  say,  madam,  that  you  are  as  fair  a  sample  of 
womankind  as  ever  I  saw,  and  much  more  beautiful 
than  is  my  lady  Queen  Guenever.  And  yet,  heaven 
defend  me,  I  will  not  fight  for  you  against  three 
knights;  and  would  not,  were  you  Helen  of  Troy 
herself.'^ 

At  these  words,  and  the  odd  grimace  which  he 
made.  La  Belle  Isolde  burst  into  a  merry  peal  of 
laughter,  and  broke  out  with, — 

"  I  know  you  better  than  you  fancy.  Sir  Dina- 
dan. And  well  you  keep  up  your  credit  of  being  a 
merry  fellow.  You  are  very  welcome  to  my  castle, 
good  sir.'^ 

They  had  much  more  of  gameful  conversation 
together,  and  Dinadan  was  treated  with  all  honor, 
and  slept  serenely  at  the  castle  that  night.  But 
Tristram  took  good  care  to  keep  out  of  his  sight. 

Early  the  next  day  Tristram  armed  himself  and 
prepared  to  ride  away,  saying  to  the  Lady  Isolde 
that  he  would  contrive  to  meet  with  Dinadan,  and 
would  ride  with  him  to  Lonazep,  where  the  tourna- 
ment was  to  be  held.  He  promised  also  to  make 
arrangements  to  provide  her  with  a  good  place  from 
which  to  see  the  passage-at-arms.  Then  he  de- 
parted, accompanied  by  two  squires,  who  bore  his 
shield  and  a  brace  of  great  and  long  spears. 

Shortly  afterwards  Dinadan  left  the  castle,  bid- 
ding a  merry  adieu  to  the  lady,  and  rode  so  briskly 
forward  that  he  soon  overtook  Tristram.  He  knew 
him  at  sight  for  his  yesterday's  comrade,  and  made 
a  sour  grimace  at  beholding  him. 


32       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  OARD. 

"  So/^  he  said,  "  here  again  is  my  easy-going 
friend,  who  wears  his  armor  for  a  holiday  parade. 
You  shall  not  get  off  so  lightly  to-day,  fellow. 
You  shall  joust  with  me,  despite  your  head.'^ 

"  Faith,  I  am  not  eager,'^  said  Tristram,  "  but  a 
wilful  man  will  have  his  way;  so  let  us  have  it 
over,  if  fight  we  must/^ 

Then  they  rode  at  each  other,  and  Dinadan  broke 
a  spear  on  Tristram's  shield,  but  Tristram  pur- 
posely missed  him. 

Dinadan  now  bade  him  draw  his  sword. 

"  Not  I,"  he  answered.  "  What  makes  you  so 
warlike?     I  am  not  in  the  humor  to  fight." 

"  You  shame  all  knights  by  your  cowardice.'^ 

"  So  far  as  that  goes,  it  troubles  me  little,"  said 
Tristram.  "  Suppose,  my  good  sir,  you  take  me 
under  your  protection.  Though  I  bear  arms  I  shall 
gladly  accept  the  patronage  of  so  worthy  a  knight 
as  you." 

"  The  devil  deliver  me  of  you !  "  cried  Dinadan. 
"  You  are  a  fellow  of  goodly  build,  and  sit  your 
horse  like  a  warrior ;  but  heaven  knows  if  you  have 
blood  or  water  in  your  veins.  What  do  you  propose 
to  do  with  those  great  spears  that  your  squire 
carries  ?  " 

"I  shall  give  them  to  some  good  knight  at  the 
tournament.  If  you  prove  the  best  there,  you  are 
welcome  to  them." 

As  they  thus  conversed  they  saw  a  knight-errant 
in  the  road  before  them,  who  sat  with  spear  in  rest 
as  if  eager  to  joust. 

"  Come,"  said  Tristram,  "  since  you  are  so 
anxious  for  a  fight,  yonder  is  your  man." 


ft 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  33 


(C 


Shame  betide  you  for  a  dastard,"  cried  Dina- 
dan.  "  Fight  him  yourself.  You  can't  get  more 
than  a  fall." 

^^  Not  so.  That  knight  seems  a  shrewish  fellow. 
It  will  need  a  stronger  hand  than  mine  to  manage 
him.'' 

^^  Good  faith,  then,  here's  to  teach  you  a  lesson," 
said  Dinadan,  and  he  rode  fiercely  against  the  other 
knight,  with  the  unlucky  result  that  he  was  thrust 
from  his  horse,  and  fell  headlong  to  the  earth. 

"  What  did  I  tell  you  ?  "  said  Tristram.  "  You 
had  better  have  taken  a  lesson  from  my  prudence, 
and  let  that  good  fellow  alone." 

"  The  fiends  take  you,  coward !  "  cried  Dinadan, 
as  he  started  to  his  feet  and  drew  his  sword. 
"  Come,  sir  knight,  you  are  my  better  on  horse- 
back, let  us  have  it  out  on  foot." 

^^  Shall  it  be  in  love  or  in  anger  ?  "  said  the  other. 

"Let  it  be  in  love.  I  am  saving  all  my  anger 
for  this  do-nothing  who  came  with  me." 

"  Then  I  pray  you  to  tell  me  your  name." 

"  Folks  call  me  Dinadan." 

"Ah,  and  I  am  your  comrade  Gareth.  I  will 
not  fight  with  an  old  friend  like  Dinadan." 

"  Nor  I  with  you,  by  my  faith  !  "  cried  Dinadan, 
seizing  Gareth's  hand  and  giving  it  a  warm  pres- 
sure. "  Beaumains  is  safe  from  my  spear.  Here 
is  a  chap  now,  if  you  want  to  try  your  skill;  but 
if  you  can  get  him  to  fight  you  must  first  learn  the 
art  of  converting  a  coward  into  a  man  of  valor." 

Tristram  laughed  quietly  at  this,  and  bided  his 
time.     Nor  was  there  long  to  wait,  for  just  then  a 

II-3 


34       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

well-armed  knight  rode  up,  on  a  sturdy  horse,  and 
put  his  spear  in  rest  as  he  approached. 

"Now,  my  good  sirs,"  said  Tristram,  "choose 
between  yourselves  which  will  joust  with  yonder 
knight;  for  I  warn  you  that  I  will  keep  clear  of 
him/' 

"  Faith,  you  had  better,^'  said  Gareth.  "  Leave 
him  to  me/' 

And  he  rode  against  the  knight  but  with  such 
ill-fortune  that  he  was  thrust  over  his  horse's  croup. 

"  It  is  your  turn  now,"  said  Tristram  to  Dinadan. 
"  Honor  requires  that  you  should  avenge  your  com- 
rade Gareth." 

"Honor  does,  eh?  Then  reason  does  not,  and 
I  always  weigh  reason  against  honor.  He  has  over- 
turned a  much  bigger  fellow  than  I,  and  with  your 
kind  permission  I  will  not  stir  up  that  hornet." 

"Aha,  friend  Dinadan,  your  heart  fails  you  after 
all  your  boasting.  Very  well,  you  shall  see  what 
the  coward  can  do.     Make  ready,  sir  knight." 

Then  Tristram  rode  against  the  victorious  knight, 
and  dealt  him  so  shrewd  a  buffet  that  he  was  thrust 
from  his  horse. 

Dinadan  looked  at  this  in  amazement.  Was  thie 
the  fellow  that  professed  cowardice  and  begged  pro- 
tection ?  "  The  cunning  rogue,"  he  said  to  himself, 
"  has  been  making  game  of  me.  The  rascal !  where 
has  he  learned  the  art  of  turning  my  weapons  on 
myself  ?  " 

The  dismounted  knight  rose  to  his  feet  in  anger, 
and  drawing  his  sword,  challenged  Tristram  to  a 
fight  on  foot. 

First,  tell  me  your  name  ?  "  asked  Tristram. 


u 


HOW  TRISTRAM  BEFOOLED  DINADAN.  35 


"  My  name  is  Palamides/ 

"  And  what  knight  hate  you  most  ? 

"  I  hate  Sir  Tristram  to  the  death.  If  we  meet, 
one  of  us  must  die." 

"You  need  not  go  far  to  seek  him.  I  am  Tris- 
tram de  Lyonesse.     Now  do  your  worst.'^ 

At  this  Dinadan  started,  and  struck  his  hand 
sturdily  on  his  knee,  like  one  who  has  had  a  shock 
of  surprise.  Nor  was  Palamides  less  astonished, 
and  he  stood  before  Tristram  like  one  in  a  sudden 
revulsion  of  feeling. 

"  I  pray  you,  Sir  Tristram,''  he  said,  "  to  forgive 
my  ill-will  and  my  unkind  words.  You  are  a  noble 
knight  and  worthy  of  the  love  of  all  honorable 
warriors.  I  repent  my  truculent  temper  towards 
you,  and,  if  I  live,  will  rather  do  you  service  than 
assail  you.'' 

"  I  know  your  valor  well,"  answered  Tristram, 
"  and  that  it  is  anything  but  fear  makes  you  speak 
so.  Therefore  I  thank  you  much  for  your  kind 
words.  But  if  you  have  any  shreds  of  ill-will 
towards  me  I  am  ready  to  give  you  satisfaction." 
My  wits  have  been  astray,"  answered  Palamides. 

There  is  no  just  reason  why  we  should  be  at  odds, 
and  I  am  ready  to  do  you  knightly  service  in  all 
things  you  may  command." 

"  I  take  you  at  your  word,"  cried  Tristram,  as  he 
grasped  Palamides  by  the  hand.  "  I  have  never 
been  your  enemy,  and  know  none  whom  I  would 
rather  have  as  a  friend." 

"  Would  you  ?  "  cried  Dinadan.  "  And  would 
have  me  as  your  fool,  mayhap?  By  my  knightly 
faith,  you  have  made  a  sweet  butt  of  me !     I  came 


36       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

into  this  country  for  your  sake,  and  by  the  advice 
of  Sir  Lancelot,  though  he  would  not  tell  me  where 
to  find  you.  By  Jove's  ears,  I  never  thought  to 
find  you  masquerading  as  a  milk-brained  coward." 

"  He  could  have  told  you,"  said  Tristram,  "  for 
I  abode  within  his  own  castle.  As  for  my  little 
sport,  friend  Dinadan,  I  cry  you  mercy." 

"  Faith,  it  is  but  one  of  my  own  jests,  turned 
against  me,"  said  Dinadan,  with  a  merry  laugh. 
"  I  am  pinked  with  my  own  dart.  I  forgive  you, 
old  comrade ;  but  I  vow  I  did  not  know  you  had 
such  a  jolly  humor." 

"  It  comes  to  one  in  your  company,"  said  Tris- 
tram, laughing.     "  The  disease  is  catching." 

And  so  the  four  knights  rode  gayly  onward,  con- 
versing much  as  they  went,  and  laying  their  plans 
for  the  tournament. 


CHAPTER  III. 

ON    THE   ROAD    TO   LONAZEP. 

The  four  knights  rode  onward  in  company  until 
they  came  in  sight  of  the  castle  of  Lonazep,  where 
they  saw  striking  preparations  for  the  tournament. 
For  not  Jess  than  four  hundred  tents  and  pavilions 
covered  the  plain  outside  the  great  circle  of  the  lists, 
and  war-horses  and  knights  in  armor  were  there  in 
hundreds. 

"  Truly,"   said   Tristram,  "  this  is  the  royalest 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  LONAZEP.  37 

show  that  I  ever  saw/' 

"  You  forget/'  answered  Palamides.  "  It  had  its 
equal  at  the  Castle  of  Maidens,  where  you  won  the 
prize/' 

"  And  in  that  tournament  which  Galahalt  of  the 
Long  Isles  held  in  Surluse  there  was  as  great  a 
gathering/'  said  Dinadan. 

"  I  was  not  there ;  who  won  the  prize  ?  "  asked 
Tristram. 

"  Lancelot  du  Lake,  and  the  next  after  him  was 
the  nohle  knight  Lamorak  de  Galis/' 

"  A  noble  fellow,  indeed.  I  never  met  his  better, 
save  Sir  Lancelot.  His  murder  was  shameful,  and 
were  they  not  the  nephews  of  my  lord  Arthur  that 
slew  him,  by  my  faith  they  should  die  the  death. 
And  this  without  prejudice  to  you.  Sir  Gareth." 

•  "  Say  what  you  will  on  that  point ;  I  am  with 
you,"  answered  Gareth.  "Though  my  own  broth- 
ers did  that  bloody  work,  I  hold  not  with  them. 
None  of  them  love  me,  as  you  well  know,  and  I  have 
left  their  company  as  murderers.  Had  I  been  by 
when  Lamorak  was  killed  there  might  have  been 
another  tale  to  tell/' 

"Truly  that  is  well  said  of  you,"  rejoined  Tris- 
tram. "  I  would  rather  have  been  there  than  to 
have  all  the  gold  between  here  and  Rome." 

"  And  I  also/'  said  Palamides.  "  It  is  a  burning 
disgrace  to  the  Eound  Table  fellowship  that  such 
a  knight  should  have  been  ambushed  and  slain  on 
his  way  from  a  passage-at-arms  where  he  had  won 
the  prize  of  valor." 

"  Out  on  such  treason  !  "  cried  Tristram.  "  The 
tale  of  it  makes  my  blood  run  cold." 


38       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  And  mine  as  well/'  said  Gareth.  "  I  can  never 
love  or  respect  my  brothers  again  for  that  ruthless 
deed/^ 

"Yet  to  speak  of  it  is  useless/'  said  Palamides. 
"  His  life  is  gone ;   we  cannot  bring  it  back  again/' 

"  There  lies  the  pity/'  said  Dinadan.  "  No  mat- 
ter how  good  and  noble  a  man  may  be,  when  he 
stops  breathing  all  else  stops  with  him.  By  good 
luck,  though,  the  same  rule  holds  with  villains  and 
cowards.  As  for  Gawaine  and  his  brothers,  except 
you.  Sir  Gareth,  they  hate  the  best  knights  of  the 
Round  Table,  and  Lancelot  and  his  kindred  above 
all.  Only  that  Lancelot  is  well  aware  of  this,  they 
might  draw  him  into  as  deadly  a  trap  as  they  drew 
poor  Lamorak." 

"  Come,  come,  remember  that  Gareth  is  their 
brother,"  said  Palamides.  "  Let  us  change  the  sub- 
ject. Here  is  this  tournament, — what  part  shall 
we  play  here?  My  advice  is  that  we  four  hold 
together  against  all  that  may  assail  us." 

"  That  is  not  my  counsel/'  said  Tristram.  "  By 
their  pavilions  we  may  count  on  some  four  hundred 
knights,  and  doubtless  many  of  them  worthy  ones. 
If  we  play  the  game  of  four  against  all  comers 
we  are  likely  to  find  ourselves  borne  down  by  num- 
bers. Many  good  knights  have  lost  the  game  by 
taking  too  great  odds.  Manhood  is  of  little  avail 
if  it  be  not  tempered  by  wisdom.  If  you  think  it 
best  we  may  try  it,  and  see  what  we  can  do  in 
company,  but,  as  a  rule,  I  prefer  to  fight  for  my  own 
hand." 

As  they  thus  talked  they  rode  away  from  Lonazep, 
and  in  due  time  came  to  the  banks  of  the  Humber, 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  LONAZEP.  39 

where  they  were  surprised  by  a  loud  and  grevious 
cry  that  seemed  full  of  doleful  meaning.  looking 
over  the  waters  they  saw  approaching  before  the 
wind  a  vessel  richly  draped  with  red  silk.  Not  long 
had  they  waited  when  it  came  to  the  shore,  at  a 
point  close  by  where  they  stood. 

Seeing  this  strange  thing  and  hearing  the  doleful 
cries  which  came  from  the  vessel,  the  knights  gave 
their  horses  in  care  of  their  squires,  and  approached 
on  foot,  Tristram  boarding  the  vessel.  When  he 
reached  the  deck  he  saw  there  a  bed  with  rich  silken 
coverings,  on  which  lay  a  dead  knight,  armed  save 
the  head,  which  was  crimsoned  with  blood.  And 
through  great  gaps  in  his  armor  deadly  wounds 
could  be  seen. 

"  What  means  this  ?  "  said  Tristram.  "  How 
came  this  knight  by  his  death  ?^' 

As  he  spoke  he  saw  that  a  letter  lay  in  the  dead 
knight^s  hand. 

"  Master  mariners,"  he  asked  of  those  on  board 
the  vessel,  "  what  does  this  strange  thing  signify  ?  ^' 

"Sir  knight,"  they  answered,  "by  the  letter 
which  the  dead  knight  bears  you  may  learn  how 
and  for  \^hat  cause  he  was  slain,  and  what  name 
he  bore.  Yet  first  heed  well  this  warning:  No 
man  must  take  and  read  that  letter  unless  he  be  a 
knight  of  proved  valor,  and  faithfully  promises 
to  revenge  the  murder  of  this  good  warrior." 

"  There  be  those  among  us  able  to  revenge  him,'^ 
answered  Tristram.  "  And  if  he  shall  prove  to  have 
been  foully  treated  his  death  shall  not  go  unre- 
dressed." 

Therewith  he  took  the  letter  from  the  knight^s 


40       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

hand  and  opened  it.     Thus  it  read, — 

"I,  Hermance,  king  and  lord  of  the  Red  City, 
request  of  all  knights-errant  and  all  noble  knights 
of  Arthur^s  court,  that  they  find  one  knight  who 
will  fight  for  my  sake  with  two  false  brethren,  whom 
I  brought  up  from  nothingness  and  who  have 
feloniously  and  treacherously  slain  me.  And  it  is 
my  will  and  desire  that  the  valiant  knight  who 
avenges  my  death  shall  become  lord  of  my  Red 
City  and  all  my  castles.'' 

"  Sir,''  said  the  mariners,  "  the  king  and  knight 
that  lies  here  dead  was  a  man  of  great  virtue  and 
noble  prowess,  and  one  who  loved  all  knights-errant, 
and,  above  all,  those  of  King  Arthur's  court. '^ 

"  It  is  a  piteous  case,  truly,"  said  Tristram.  "  I 
would  fain  take  the  enterprise  in  hand  myself,  but 
that  I  have  made  a  solemn  promise  to  take  part 
in  this  great  tournament.  It  was  for  my  sake  in 
especial  that  my  lord  Arthur  made  it,  and  I  cannot 
in  honor  and  courtesy  fail  to  attend  it.  Therefore 
I  am  not  free  to  undertake  any  adventure  which 
may  keep  me  from  the  lists." 

"  I  pray  you,  dear  sir,"  said  Palamides,  who  had 
followed  Tristram  into  the  vessel,  "  to  •  put  this 
enterprise  into  my  hands.  I  promise  to  achieve 
it  worthilv  or  to  die  in  the  effort." 

"  Be  it  so,"  said  Tristram.  "  You  may  go  if  you 
will.  But  first  I  wish  your  promise  to  return  so 
as  to  be  with  me  at  the  tournament  this  day  week, 
if  possible." 

"  That  promise  I  freely  give.  If  I  be  alive  and 
unhurt,  and  my  task  be  not  too  arduous  and  long, 
I  shall  be  with  you  by  that  day." 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  LONAZEP.  41 

This  said,  Tristram  left  the  vessel,  leaving  Pala- 
mides  in  it,  and  he,  with  Gareth  and  Dinadan,  stood 
watching  it  as  the  mariners  hoisted  its  sails  and  it 
glided  swiftly  away  over  long  Humber.  Not  till 
it  was  out  of  sight  did  they  return  to  their  horses, 
and  look  about  them. 

As  they  did  so  they  beheld  near  them  a  knight, 
who  came  up  unarmed  save  a  sword,  and  saluted 
them  with  all  courtesy. 

"  Fair  sirs,"  he  said,  "  I  pray  you,  as  knights- 
errant,  to  come  and  see  my  castle,  and  take  such 
fare  as  you  may  find  there.  This  I  heartily 
request.'^ 

"  That  shall  we  willingly  do,  and  thank  you  for 
your  courtesy,"  they  answered,  and  rode  with  him 
to  his  castle,  which  was  near  bv. 

Here  they  entered  a  richly-furnished  hall,  and, 
having  laid  off  their  armor,  took  their  seats  at  a 
well-laden  table.  But  when  the  host  saw  Tristram's 
face,  he  knew  him,  and  first  grew  pale  and  then 
angry  of  countenance. 

"  Sir,  mine  host,"  said  Tristram,  on  seeing  this 
threatening  aspect,  "  what  is  wrong  with  you,  I 
pray  ?  " 

"I  know  you,  Tristram  de  Lyonesse,"  answered 
the  knight,  hotly.  "  You  slew  my  brother.  Honor 
demands  that  I  shall  not  seek  revenge  here,  but  1 
give  you  warning  that  I  will  kill  you  when  I  meet 
you  outside  my  castle." 

"  I  have  no  knowledge  of  you  or  your  brother," 
answered  Tristram.  "  But  no  man  can  sav  that  I 
ever  killed  any  one  except  in  fair  and  open  fight. 
If  I  have  done  as  you  say  I  stand  ready  to  make 
what  amends  are  in  my  power." 


42       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 


I   desire   no    amends,"    rejoined   the   knight. 

But  I  warn  you  to  keep  from  me/' 

Tristram  at  this  rose  from  the  table  and  asked 
for  his  arms,  his  companions  following  him.  Seek- 
ing their  horses  they  rode  away,  but  they  had  not 
gone  far  from  the  castle  when  Dinadan  saw  a  knight 
following  them,  who  was  well  armed,  but  bore  no 
shield. 

"  Take  care  of  yourself.  Sir  Tristram,"  he  said. 
"  Yonder  comes  our  host  to  call  you  to  account." 

"Then  I  must  abide  him  as  I  may,"  answered 
Tristram. 

Soon  the  knight  came  up,  and,  loudly  bidding 
Tristram  to  be  on  his  guard,  he  rode  furiously  upon 
him  with  couched  spear.  But  his  valor  went  beyond 
his  strength,  for  he  was  buried  over  his  horse's 
croup. 

Not  content  with  this,  he  rose,  mounted  again, 
and  driving  his  horse  at  full  speed  upon  Tristram, 
struck  him  two  hard  blows  on  the  helm. 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Tristram,  "  I  pray  you  leave 
off  this  sport.  I  do  not  care  to  harm  you  after 
having  just  eaten  at  your  table,  but  beg  you  not 
to  try  my  patience  too  far." 

The  furious  assailant  would  not  cease,  however, 
and  continued  his  assaults  until  Tristram  was 
provoked  to  anger.  Jn  the  end  he  returned  the 
knight  a  blow  with  tlie  full  strength  of  his  mighty 
arm,  so  fierce  a  buffet,  indeed,  that  the  blood  burst 
out  from  the  breathing  holes  of  his  helm,  and  he 
fell  to  the  earth  and  lay  there  like  one  dead. 

"  I  hope  I  have  not  killed  him,"  said  Tristram. 
"  I  did  not  think  to  strike  the  man  so  hard  a  blow. 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  LONAZEP.  43 

but  I  am  not  a  log  to  stand  at  rest  and  let  him 
whet  his  sword  on/^ 

Leaving  the  fallen  knight  to  the  care  of  his  squire, 
they  rode  on;  but  not  far  had  they  gone  when 
they  saw  coming  towards  them  two  well-armed  and 
well-horsed  knights,  each  with  a  good  following  of 
servants.  One  of  these  was  Berrant  le  Apres,  he 
who  was  called  the  king  with  the  hundred  knights, 
and  the  other  Sir  Segwarides,  both  men  of  might 
and  renown. 

When  they  came  up  the  king  looked  at  Dinadan, 
who,  through  sport,  had  put  on  Tristram's  helmet. 
This  he  recognized  as  one  he  had  seen  before  with 
the  queen  of  Northgalis,  whom  he  loved.  She  had 
given  it  to  La  Belle  Isolde,  and  she  to  Tristram. 

"  Sir  knight,^'  asked  Berrant,  "  whence  had  you 
that  helm  ? '' 

"  Not  from  you,  I  fancy.  What  have  you  to  say 
to  it?" 

"  That  I  will  have  a  tilt  with  vou,  for  the  love 
of  her  who  once  owned  it.  Therefore,  defend 
yourself.^' 

So  they  drew  asunder,  and  rode  at  each  other 
with  all  the  speed  of  their  horses.  But  Dinadan, 
good  knight  as  he  was,  was  no  match  for  the  tough 
and  hardy  warrior  before  him,  and  was  sent,  horse 
and  all,  to  the  ground. 

"  I  fancy  I  have  something  to  say  about  the  hel- 
met now,''  said  Berrant,  grimly.  "  Go  take  it  off 
him,  and  keep  it,"  he  ordered  his  servant. 

"  What  will  you  do  ?  "  cried  IMstram.  "  Hands 
off,  fellow.     Touch  not  that  helm." 

"  To  what  intent  do  you  meddle,  sir  knight  ?  " 
demanded  Berrant. 


44       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

"  To  this  intent,  that  the  helm  is  mine.  Nor 
will  you  get  it  from  me  till  you  buy  it  at  a  dearer 
price/' 

"  Do  you  mean  that  as  a  challenge  ?  "  asked  Ber- 
rant.     "  Be  it  so,  then ;  make  ready/' 

Together  they  rode  with  all  speed,  but  with  a 
change  of  fortune,  for  Berrant  found  himself  thrust 
over  the  tail  of  his  horse.  In  a  moment  he  was 
on  his  feet,  sprang  briskly  to  his  saddle,  and,  riding 
in  anger  upon  Tristram,  struck  at  him  fiercely  with 
his  sword. 

Tristram  was  not  taken  unawares,  but  in  an 
instant  had  his  sword  in  hand.  A  fierce  combat 
followed,  for  the  king  with  the  hundred  knights 
was  a  warrior  of  tough  sinews  and  tried  valor, 
but  at  the  last  he  received  such  a  buffet  on  the  helm 
that  he  fell  forward  on  his  horse's  neck,  stunned 
and  helpless. 

"  By  my  faith,  that  helmet  has  proved  unlucky 
for  two  of  us,"  said  Dinadan.  "  It  brought  me 
a  tumble,  and  now,  sir  king,  you  owe  it  a  buzzing 
head-piece." 

"  Who  will  joust  with  me  ?  "  asked  Segwarides. 

"  It  is  your  right,"  said  Gareth  to  Dinadan,  "  but 
I  pray  you  let  me  have  it." 

"  You  are  heartily  welcome  to  it.  One  tumble 
a  day  is  enough  for  my  weak  appetite,"  answered 
Dinadan.  "  I  make  you  a  free  present  of  the 
opportunity." 

That    is    no    fair    exchange,"    said    Tristram. 

The  joust  is  yours  by  right." 

"  But  not  by  choice,"  rejoined  Dinadan.  "  Good 
faith,  sir  bruiser,  I  have  lived  long  enough  to  know 


ON  THE  ROAD  TO  LONAZEP.  45 

when  I  have  had  my  share,  and  that  is  a  lesson 
it  would  pay  many  of  you  battle-hungry  knights 
to  learn.'^ 

Then  Gareth  and  Segwarides  rode  together,  the 
result  being  that  Gareth  and  his  horse  went  in  a 
heap  to  the  earth. 

"  Now,'^  said  Tristram,  "  the  joust  is  yours." 

"But  the  appetite  is  lacking,"  said  Dinadan. 
"  I  have  even  less  stomach  for  it  than  before." 

"Then  will  I  try  him." 

With  these  words  Tristram  challenged  Seg- 
warides, who  received  a  sore  fall  in  the  joust  that 
followed.  Then  the  three  knights  rode  on,  leaving 
their  late  antagonists  the  worse  in  heart  and  limb 
for  the  encounter. 

They  continued  their  ride  till  they  reached  Joy- 
ous Gard.  Here  Gareth  courteouslv  declined  to 
enter  the  castle,  but  Tristram  would  not  hear  of 
his  departure,  and  made  him  alight  and  enter  as 
his  guest.  So  they  disarmed  and  had  good  cheer, 
with  La  Belle  Isolde  as  their  hostess. 

But  Dinadan,  when  he  came  into  the  presence  of 
Isolde,  roundly  cursed  the  hour  that  he  had  been 
persuaded  to  wear  Tristram's  helm,  and  told  her  of 
how  he  had  been  mocked  by  his  comrade  knight. 

Much  laughing  and  jesting  at  Dinadan  followed, 
but  this  was  a  game  in  which  he  was  quite  able 
to  hold  his  own,  however  he  might  lack  with  sword 
and  spear.  For  Arthur's  court  held  no  other  so 
witty  of  tongue  and  merry  of  heart.  And  thus 
in  jest  and  feast  they  passed  the  hours  happily 
away. 


46       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

HOW    PALAMIDES    FARED   AT    THE    RED    CITY. 

Leaving  Tristram  and  his  companions  to  their 
merry  talk  in  Joyous  Gard,  we  must  now  return 
to  Pal  amides.  The  ship  into  which  he  had  entered 
sailed  far  along  the  Humber,  until  in  time  it  reached 
the  open  sea.  It  continued  its  course  through  the 
sea-waves  till  it  came  to  a  part  of  the  coast  where 
stood  a  stately  castle. 

All  day  and  night  they  had  sailed,  and  it  was 
now  early  in  the  morning,  before  day-dawn.  Pala- 
mides  was  sound  asleep  in  the  vessel's  cabin  when 
the  mariners  came  to  call  him. 

"  Sir  knight,''  they  said,  "  you  must  arise.  We 
have  reached  a  castle,  which  vou  must  enter." 

"  I  am  at  your  command,"  he  replied. 

Eising,  he  armed  himself  quickly,  and  then  blew 
a  loud  call  upon  a  hprn  which  the  mariners  gave 
him. 

'  At  the  ringing  music  of  that  bugle-blast  the 
sleeping  castle  seemed  to  stir  into  life.  Soon  many 
eyes  could  be  seen  looking  from  the  windows,  and 
ere  long  the  walls  were  crowded  with  knights,  who 
called  to  Palamides  as  with  one  voice,  "  Welcome, 
fair  sir,  to  this  castle." 

The  day  had  now  fully  dawned,  and  Palamides 
entered  the  castle,  where  a  crowd  of  knights  came 
to  greet  him,  and  led  him  to  a  stately  dining-hall, 
where  an  abundant  breakfast  awaited  him.  But 
as  he  ate  he  heard  much  lamentation,  and  saw  many 


HOW  PALAMIDES  FARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     47 

whose  eyes  were  wet  with  tears. 

"  What  means  this  ?  '^  he  asked.  "  I  love  not 
such  sorrow,  and  would  fain  know  what  gives  rise 
to  it/^ 

"We  mourn  here  daily/^  answered  a  knight 
named  Sir  Ebel,  "and  for  this  cause.  We  had  a 
king  named  Hermance,  who  was  lord  of  the  Red 
City,  and  in  every  way  a  noble  and  generous  mon- 
arch. And  he  loved  nothing  in  the  world  so  much 
as  the  knights-errant  of  King  Arthur's  court,  to- 
gether with  the  sports  of  jousting,  hunting,  and  all 
knightly  diversions.  A  king  so  kind  of  heart  as  he 
was  never  before  known  in  this  country,  and  we  shall 
ever  be  filled  with  sorrow  for  his  loss.  Yet  he  acted 
unwisely,  and  is  himself  at  fault  for  his  death.'' 

"Tell  me  how  he  was  slain  and  by  whom," 
asked  Palamides. 

"  In  this  wise  it  came  to  pass,"  answered  Ebel. 
"  He  brought  up,  in  pure  charity,  two  children, 
who  are  now  strong  knights.  And  to  them  he  gave 
all  his  trust  and  confidence,  in  default  of  those 
of  his  own  blood.  These  two  men  governed  him 
completely,  and,  through  him,  his  lands  and  people, 
for  they  took  the  best  of  care  that  none  of  his  kin- 
dred should  come  into  power.  He  was  so  free  and 
trustful,  and  they  so  politic  and  deceitful,  that  they 
ruled  him  as  though  they  were  the  kings  and  he  the 
subject.  When  the  lords  of  our  king's  blood  saw 
that  he  had  fallen  into  this  dotage  they  left  the  court 
in  disgust,  and  sought  their  livelihood  elsewhere. 
This  it  proved  not  wise  to  do,  for  when  these  vil- 
lains found  that  all  the  king's  kindred  had  left  the 
realm  they  schemed  to  have  more  power  still;   for. 


48       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

» 

as  the  old  saw  says,  ^  Givfe  a  churl  rule  in  part,  and 
he  will  not  be  content  till  he  has  it  all.'  It  is  the 
instinct  of  the  base-born  to  destroy  gentlemen-born, 
if  the  power  be  put  in  their  hands,  and  all  rulers 
should  take  warning  by  the  fate  of  King  Hermance. 
In  the  end  our  king,  by  the  advice  of  these  traitors, 
rode  into  the  forest  here  by,  to  chase  the  red  deer. 
When  he  had  become  warm  from  the  hunt  he 
alighted  to  drink  at  a  woodland  spring,  and,  while 
he  was  bent  over  the  water,  one  of  these  villains 
thrust  him  through  the  body  with  a  spear.  They 
then  fled  from  the  spot,  thinking  he  was  dead. 
Shortly  after  they  had  gone,  fortune  brought  me 
to  the  spot,  where  I  found  my  lord  still  alive,  but 
mortally  hurt,  and  learned  from  him  his  story. 
Knowing  that  we  had  no  knights  able  to  revenge 
him  on  his  murderers,  I  had  him  brought  to  the 
water,  and  put  into  the  ship  alive,  and  the  letter 
which  he  bore  in  his  hand  I  wrote  from  his  own 
words.  Then  he  died,  and,  as  he  had  ordered, 
the  ship  set  sail  up  the  Humber,  bound  for  the  realm 
of  Logris,  where  it  was  hoped  that  some  valiant 
Knight  of  the  Eound  Table  would  take  this  adven- 
ture on  himself.'^ 

"Truly  your  doleful  tale  grieves  me  sorely ,'' 
said  Palamides.  "I  saw  the  letter  you  speak  of. 
It  was  read  to  me  by  one  of  the  best  knights  upon 
the  earth,  and  it  is  by  his  command  I  am  here.  I 
came  to  revenge  your  king,  and  I  shall  never  be 
at  ease  till  I  meet  with  and  punish  his  murderers." 

"You  have  my  hearty  thanks  and  best  wishes," 
said  Ebel.  "  Since  you  accept  this  adventure,  you 
must  enter  the  ship  again,  and  sail  forward  till 


HOW  PALAMIDES  FARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     49 

you  reach  the  Delectable  Isle,  which  is  near  by  the 
Eed  City.  We  shall  await  here  your  return.  If 
you  speed  well  this  castle  is  yours.  King  Hermance 
built  it  for  the  two  traitors,  but  we  hold  it  against 
them,  and  they  threaten  us  sorely  unless  we  yield 
it.^^ 

"  Look  that  you  keep  it,  whatsoever  may  come 
to  me,^'  said  Palamides.  "  For  if  fortune  decides 
that  I  am  to  be  slain  in  this  quest,  I  trust  that  one 
of  the  best  knights  in  the  world  will  come  to 
revenge  me;  either  Tristram  de  Lyonesse  or  Lan- 
celot du  Lake.^' 

Then  Palamides  entered  the  ship  and  sailed  away 
towards  the  Red  City.  But  as  he  came  near  it, 
and  landed  on  the  coast,  another  ship  touched  shore 
near  by,  from  which  came  a  goodly  knight,  with  his 
shield  on  his  shoulder  and  his  hand  on  his  sword. 

"  Sir  knight,  what  seek  you  here  ? "  he  asked 
Palamides.  "If  you  have  come  to  revenge  King 
Hermance  you  must  yield  this  quest  to  me,  for 
it  was  mine  before  it  was  yours,  and  I  shall  yield 
it  to  no  man.^' 

"You  speak  like  a  true  knight,"  said  Palamides. 
"  But  when  the  letter  was  taken  from  the  dead 
king^s  hand  there  was  nothing  known  of  any  cham- 
pion for  him,  and  so  I  promised  to  revenge  him. 
And  this  I  must  and  shall  do,  lest  I  win  shame 
instead  of  honor/' 

You  have  right  on  your  side,''  said  the  knight. 

What  I  propose  is  this.  I  will  fight  with  you; 
and  he  who  proves  the  better  knight  shall  havo 
the  quest." 

"  That  fits  with  my  fancy,"  said  Palamides ;  "  for 

II-4 


60       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

from  what  I  hear  no  second-rate  champion  can 
watch  this  pair  of  villains/^ 

With  this  they  advanced  their  shields  and  drew 
their  swords,  and  began  a  stern  and  well-contested 
combat.  For  more  than  an  hour  the  fight  between 
them  continued,  but  at  the  end  of  this  time  Pala- 
mides  seemed  stronger  and  better-winded  than  at 
the  beginning,  and  he  finally  dealt  his  opponent  a 
blow  that  brought  him  to  his  knees.  Then  the 
discomfited  combatant  cried  out, — 

"  Knight,  hold  you  hand.^' 

Palamides  let  fall  his  sword  at  this  request. 

"  You  are  the  better  of  us  two,  and  more  worthy 
of  this  battle,'^  said  the  knight.  "  But  fain  would 
I  know  your  name.^' 

"  My  name  is  Palamides.  I  am  a  Knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  and  one  well  known  in  Arthur's 
realm. ^' 

"  In  good  faith  it  is,  and  much  beyond  that 
realm,^^  answered  the  knight.  "  I  know  only  three 
living  men  besides  yourself  who  are  fitted  for  this 
task,  and  they  are  Lancelot,  Tristram,  and  my 
cousin  Lamorak.  As  for  me,  my  name  is  Hermind, 
and   I   am  brother  to  the   murdered   King   Her- 


mance." 


"  I  shall  do  my  best  to  revenge  your  brother," 
said  Palamides.  "  If  I  am  slain,  I  commend  you 
to  Lancelot  or  Tristram.  As  for  Lamorak,  he  will 
never  strike  blow  again." 

"  Alas,  what  mean  you  ?  " 

"  That  he  has  been  murdered — waylaid  and  slain 
treacherously  by  Gawaine  and  his  brothers,  except 
Sir  Gareth,  the  best  of  them  all."     And  he  told  the 


HOW  PALAMIDES  FARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     51 

story  of  the  death  of  Lamorak,  much  to  the  grief 
and  indignation  of  his  hearer. 

Then  Palamides  took  ship  again,  and  sailed  on 
till  he  came  to  the  Delectable  Isle.  Meanwhile 
Hermind  made  all  haste  to  the  Red  City,  where 
he  told  of  the  arrival  of  the  famous  knight  Pala- 
mides and  of  his  combat  with  him.  The  people 
were  filled  with  joy  at  these  tidings,  and  quickly 
sent  a  messenger  to  the  two  brethren,  bidding  them 
to  make  ready,  as  a  knight  had  come  who  would 
fight  them  both.  The  messenger  found  them  at  a 
castle  near  by,  and  delivered  his  message. 

"  Who  is  this  champion  ?  "  they  asked.  "  Is  it 
Lancelot  or  any  of  his  blood  ?  '^ 

"  No." 

"  If  it  were,  we  would  not  fight.  But  we  care 
for  no  one  else.'' 

"  It  is  a  good  knight  though.  Sir  Palamides,  a 
Saracen  by  birth,  and  still  unchristened." 

"He  had  best  have  been  christened  before  he 
came  here,  for  it  will  be  too  late  when  we  have 
done  with  him.  Let  him  know  that  we  will  be 
at  the  Red  City  in  two  days,  and  will  give  him 
all  the  fighting  he  is  likely  to  want  for  the  rest 
of  his  life." 

When  Palamides  came  to  the  citv  he  was  re- 
ceived  with  the  greatest  joy,  and  the  more,  so  when 
the  people  saw  what  a  handsome  and  well-built 
man  he  was,  neither  too  young  nor  too  old,  with 
clean  and  powerful  limbs,  and  no  defect  of  body. 

At  the  time  appointed  there  came  to  the  city  the 
two  brethren,  Helius  and  Helake  by  name,  both  of 
them  strong  and  valiant  men,  of  great  prowess  in 


war^  faliae  ii&  ihej  wsc^  st  hettrL  And  witk  chEBK 
thej  bmugiit  forty  koigfusw  co  guard  theni  agariwt 
aiiT  treacfaecT  foHn.  die  Re/tl  Cirv.  for  thev  knew 
weO.  i±at  it  wa»  filled  with,  xiuar  aigmrfgf. 

Tlie  Iffits  had  aireaiiy  be«i  preparntf-  and  at  the 
appomted  hoar  P^damides  Altered  faU  armed,  and 
confcoated  hiss-  sntak^oaists^  boidlj. 

*^Are  yaa  rfie  tw*>  brethreii  Helinff  ami  Hefa&e^ 
wi»  *Iew  jnnr  kfnjg  bj  treiatsoo.  ?  "^  he  asked. 

*"We  ar&  the  men  who-  ihew  King  EEermaircg.^ 
tiler  lepLsed.  '^  And  bear  in  mfn«i.  Sir  SoraranL 
we  are  ahie  to*  «tand  bv  our  deeti^.  and  wiE  handle 
Ton  »o  before  joa  depart  that  jon  will  wish,  too 
hakd  been  ehrKtened  before  joa  came  so  far."* 

^  I  tnr^t  to  •"iod  I  shall  <iie  a  b»?tter  i^ris^fjrTt 
than  ettfaer  of  joxlT  Palamides  repIieL  ^  Aii»i 
▼on  had  best  kill  me  if  tou  ajet  the  chance,  for  I 
TOW  not  to  spare  too." 

A*  he  i?noke  the  tnrmpet  soimdei.  and.  reining 
back  their  horses.  theT  rorfe  against  each  other  with 
terriSe  speed.  Pa  [amides  direc-teii  LLf  -r-pear  against 
Helake.  and  stmcfc  him  'r*:*  mighty  a  blow  that  the 
spear  pierneii  thr>ngh  hi^  >hield  and  hauberk,  and 
for  a  fathom's  length  throogh  hii-  breast,  htrrling- 
him  dead  to  the  earth.  ^\s  for  HeliiL?.  he  held  up 
Ms  spear  in  pride  and  presumption,  and  roiie  bj 
Palamides  without  touching  him. 

Bat  when  he  saw  his  brother  stretched  in  death 
on  the  earth  his  assurance  changed  to  do'i"~t.  and 
ra;ie  droTe  the  prMe  fr»:»ra  his  heart.  **  Help  taj- 
self,  villain !  "  he  crie^?.  and  rushed  up*?n  Pa:ami«les 
before  he  corrld  prepare  to  encounter  him.  -triking 
him  a  blow  with  his  spear  that  bore  him  from 


HOW  PALAMIDES  PARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     53 

saddle  to  the  earth.  Then  he  forced  his  horse  over 
him  backward  and  forward  before  the  dismounted 
champion  could  regain  his  feet. 

As  he  came  again,  the  fallen  knight  reached  up 
and  caught  the  horse  by  the  bridle,  dragging  him- 
self by  its  aid  to  his  feet.  Then,  as  the  animal 
reared,  he  pressed  so  strongly  upon  it  that  it  top- 
pled backward  to  the  ground,  the  rider  barely  saving 
himself  from  being  crushed  beneath  his  fallen  horse. 
But  he  was  on  his  feet  in  an  instant,  and,  sword  in 
hand,  struck  Palamides  a  blow  on  the  helm  that 
brought  him  down  to  one  knee. 

Before  he  could  repeat  the  blow  the  gallant  Sara- 
cen was  on  his  feet  and  had  drawn  his  trenchant 
blade,  with  which  he  attacked  his  antagonist  in 
turn.  A  fierce  and  deadly  combat  succeeded,  the 
two  knights  hurtling  together  like  two  wild  boars, 
now  both  hurled  grovelling  to  the  earth,  now  on 
foot  again  and  hewing  at  each  other  with  the 
strength  of  giants. 

Thus  for  two  hours  they  fought,  without  time 
for  rest  or  a  moment's  space  to  recover  breath. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  Palamides  grew  faint  and 
weary  from  the  violence  of  his  efforts,  but  Melius 
seemed  as  strong  as  ever,  and  redoubling  his  strokes 
he  drove  back  the  Saracen  knight  step  by  step, 
over  all  the  field.  At  this  the  people  of  the  city 
were  filled  with  fear,  while  the  party  of  Melius 
shouted  with  triumph. 

"  Alas ! "  cried  the  citizens,  "  that  this  noble 
knight  should  be  slain  for  our  king's  sake." 

While  thev  thus  bewailed  his  threatened  fate  and 
the  seeming  victory  of  their  tyrant,  Melius  showered 


48       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

» 

as  the  old  saw  says,  ^  Givfe  a  churl  rule  in  part,  and 
he  will  not  be  content  till  he  has  it  all/  It  is  the 
instinct  of  the  base-born  to  destroy  gentlemen-born, 
if  the  power  be  put  in  their  hands,  and  all  rulers 
should  take  warning  by  the  fate  of  King  Hermance. 
In  the  end  our  king,  by  the  advice  of  these  traitors, 
rode  into  the  forest  here  by,  to  chase  the  red  deer. 
When  he  had  become  warm  from  the  hunt  he 
alighted  to  drink  at  a  woodland  spring,  and,  while 
he  was  bent  over  the  water,  one  of  these  villains 
thrust  him  through  the  body  with  a  spear.  They 
then  fled  from  the  spot,  thinking  he  was  dead. 
Shortly  after  they  had  gone,  fortune  brought  me 
to  the  spot,  where  I  found  my  lord  still  alive,  but 
mortally  hurt,  and  learned  from  him  his  story. 
Knowing  that  we  had  no  knights  able  to  revenge 
him  on  his  murderers,  I  had  him  brought  to  the 
water,  and  put  into  the  ship  alive,  and  the  letter 
which  he  bore  in  his  hand  I  wrote  from  his  own 
words.  Then  he  died,  and,  as  he  had  ordered, 
the  ship  set  sail  up  the  Humber,  bound  for  the  realm 
of  Logris,  where  it  was  hoped  that  some  valiant 
Knight  of  the  Eound  Table  would  take  this  adven- 
ture on  himself  .^^ 

"  Truly  your  doleful  tale  grieves  me  sorely ,'' 
said  Palamides.  "I  saw  the  letter  you  speak  of. 
It  was  read  to  me  by  one  of  the  best  knights  upon 
the  earth,  and  it  is  by  his  command  I  am  here.  I 
came  to  revenge  your  king,  and  I  shall  never  be 
at  ease  till  I  meet  with  and  punish  his  murderers." 

"  You  have  my  hearty  thanks  and  best  wishes," 
said  Ebel.  ^^  Since  you  accept  this  adventure,  you 
must  enter  the  ship  again,  and  sail  forward  till 


HOW  PALAMIDES  PARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     53 

saddle  to  the  earth.  Then  he  forced  his  horse  over 
him  backward  and  forward  before  the  dismounted 
champion  could  regain  his  feet. 

As  he  came  again,  the  fallen  knight  reached  up 
and  caught  the  horse  by  the  bridle,  dragging  him- 
self by  its  aid  to  his  feet.  Then,  as  the  animal 
reared,  he  pressed  so  strongly  upon  it  that  it  top- 
pled backward  to  the  ground,  the  rider  barely  saving 
himself  from  being  crushed  beneath  his  fallen  horse. 
But  he  was  on  his  feet  in  an  instant,  and,  sword  in 
hand,  struck  Palamides  a  blow  on  the  helm  that 
brought  him  down  to  one  knee. 

Before  he  could  repeat  the  blow  the  gallant  Sara- 
cen was  on  his  feet  and  had  drawn  his  trenchant 
blade,  with  which  he  attacked  his  antagonist  in 
turn.  A  fierce  and  deadly  combat  succeeded,  the 
two  knights  hurtling  together  like  two  wild  boars, 
now  both  hurled  grovelling  to  the  earth,  now  on 
foot  asrain  and  hewing  at  each  other  with  the 
strength  of  giants. 

Thus  for  two  hours  they  fought,  without  time 
for  rest  or  a  moment's  space  to  recover  breath. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  Palamides  grew  faint  and 
weary  from  the  violence  of  his  efforts,  but  Melius 
seemed  as  strong  as  ever,  and  redoubling  his  strokes 
he  drove  back  the  Saracen  knight  step  by  step, 
over  all  the  field.  At  this  the  people  of  the  city 
were  filled  with  fear,  while  the  party  of  Helius 
shouted  with  triumph. 

"  Alas ! "  cried  the  citizens,  "  that  this  noble 
knight  should  be  slain  for  our  king^s  sake." 

While  thev  thus  bewailed  his  threatened  fate  and 
the  seeming  victory  of  their  tyrant,  Helius  showered 


54       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

SO  many  vigorous  blows  on  his  weakened  foe  that 
it  was  a  wonder  he  kept  his  feet.  But  when  he 
saw  how  the  common  people  wept  for  him  his  heart 
was  filled  with  a  sense  of  shame,  while  a  glow  of 
fury  burned  like  fire  in  his  veins. 

"  Fie  on  you  for  a  dastard,  Palamides !  ^'  he  said 
to  himself.  "Why  hang  you  your  head  so  like  a 
whipped  hound  ?  ^' 

Then,  with  a  new  spirit  burning  hotly  within 
him,  and  fresh  strength  animating  his  limbs,  he 
lifted  his  drooping  shield  and  turned  on  Helius 
with  lion-like  fury,  smiting  him  a  vigorous  blow 
on  the  helm,  which  he  followed  quickly  by  others. 
This  violent  onset  was  too  much  for  the  strained 
strength  of  the  false  knight,  and  he  retreated  in 
dismay,  while  the  sword  of  Palamides  fell  with  ever 
more  and  more  might.  At  length  came  so  mighty 
a  blow  that  he  was  hurled  like  a  log  to  the  earth. 
The  victorious  Saracen  gave  him  no  time  to  re- 
cover, but  sprang  upon  him  like  a  fury,  tore  the 
helm  from  his  head,  and  with  a  final  stroke  smote 
the  head  from  his  body. 

Then  he  rose  and  stood  leaning  upon  his  sword, 
hardly  able  to  bear  himself  on  his  feet,  while  from 
all  the  people  of  the  city  went  up  loud  shouts  of 
joy  and  congratulation. 

"  Palamides,  the  conqueror !  Palamides,  our  de- 
liverer !  Palamides,  our  king ! ''  they  shouted, 
while  one  adorned  his  brows  with  a  wreath  of  laurel, 
and  others  tore  off  his  armor  and  applied  oint- 
ments to  his  bleeding  limbs. 

"  Fair  friends,  your  crown  is  not  for  me,^'  he 
said.     "I  have  delivered  you  from  your  tyrants, 


■■■ 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.  55 

but  you  must  choose  some  other  king,  as  I  am 
under  promise  to  return  with  all  speed  to  my  lord 
King  Arthur  at  the  castle  of  Lonazep." 

This  decision  filled  them  with  grief,  but  they 
brought  him  to  the  city  and  treated  him  with  all 
the  honor  which  they  could  bestow  upon  him.  And 
as  he  persisted  in  his  refusal  of  the  crown,  they 
proffered  him  a  third  part  of  their  goods  if  he 
would  remain  with  them.  All  this  he  declined, 
and  in  a  short  time  departed,  bearing  with  him  a 
thousand  good  wishes  and  prayers  for  success  and 
fortune. 

He  was  received  with  like  joy  and  congratula- 
tion at  the  castle.  Sir  Ebel  warmly  pressing  him 
to  change  his  decision  and  remain  as  their  king. 
To  this  Palamides  would  bv  no  means  consent, 
and  after  a  day's  stay  he  took  ship  again,  and 
sailed  up  the  Humber  to  the  castle  of  Lonazep. 


CHAPTEE  V. 

THE    TOURNAMENT    AT    LONAZEP. 

When  Palamides  learned  that  Tristram  was  not 
at  Lonazep,  he  tarried  not  there,  but  crossed  the 
Humber,  and  sought  him  at  Joyous  Gard.  Here 
he  found  lodgings  in  the  town,  and  word  was 
quickly  brought  to  Tristram  that  a  knight-errant 
had  come. 


62       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

war,  false  as  they  were  at  heart.  And  with  them 
they  brought  forty  knights,  to  guard  them  against 
any  treachery  from  the  Red  City,  for  they  knew 
well  that  it  was  filled  with  their  enemies. 

The  lists  had  already  been  prepared,  and  at  the 
appointed  hour  Palamides  entered  full  armed,  and 
confronted  his  antagonists  boldly. 

"Are  you  the  two  brethren  Helius  and  Helake, 
who  slew  your  king  by  treason  ?  "  he  asked. 

"We  are  the  men  who  slew  King  Hermance,^' 
they  replied.  "And  bear  in  mind.  Sir  Saracen, 
we  are  able  to  stand  by  our  deeds,  and  will  handle 
you  so  before  you  depart  that  you  will  wish  you 
had  been  christened  before  you  came  so  far.^' 

"  I  trust  to  God  I  shall  die  a  better  Christian 
than  either  of  you,"  Palamides  replied.  "And 
you  had  best  kill  me  if  you  get  the  chance,  for  I 
vow  not  to  spare  you." 

As  he  spoke  the  trumpet  sounded,  and,  reining 
back  their  horses,  they  rode  against  each  other  with 
terrific  speed.  Palamides  directed  his  spear  against 
Helake,  and  struck  him  so  mighty  a  blow  that  the 
spear  pierced  through  his  shield  and  hauberk,  and 
for  a  fathom's  length  through  his  breast,  hurling 
him  dead  to  the  earth.  As  for  Helius,  he  held  up 
his  spear  in  pride  and  presumption,  and  rode  by 
Palamides  without  touching  him. 

But  when  he  saw  his  brother  stretched  in  death 
on  the  earth  his  assurance  changed  to  doubt,  and 
rage  drove  the  pride  from  his  heart.  "  Help  thy- 
self, villain  !  "  he  cried,  and  rushed  upon  Palamides 
before  he  could  prepare  to  encounter  him,  striking 
him  a  blow  with  his  spear  that  bore  him  from  his 


HOW  PALAMIDES  FARED  AT  THE  RED  CITY.     53 

saddle  to  the  earth.  Then  he  forced  his  horse  over 
him  backward  and  forward  before  the  dismounted 
champion  could  regain  his  feet. 

As  he  came  again,  the  fallen  knight  reached  up 
and  caught  the  horse  by  the  bridle,  dragging  him- 
self by  its  aid  to  his  feet.  Then,  as  the  animal 
reared,  he  pressed  so  strongly  upon  it  that  it  top- 
pled backward  to  the  ground,  the  rider  barely  saving 
himself  from  being  crushed  beneath  his  fallen  horse. 
But  he  was  on  his  feet  in  an  instant,  and,  sword  in 
hand,  struck  Palamides  a  blow  on  the  helm  that 
brought  him  down  to  one  knee. 

Before  he  could  repeat  the  blow  the  gallant  Sara- 
cen was  on  his  feet  and  had  drawn  his  trenchant 
blade,  with  which  he  attacked  his  antagonist  in 
turn.  A  fierce  and  deadly  combat  succeeded,  the 
two  knights  hurtling  together  like  two  wild  boars, 
now  both  hurled  grovelling  to  the  earth,  now  on 
foot  again  and  hewing  at  each  other  with  the 
strength  of  giants. 

Thus  for  two  hours  they  fought,  without  time 
for  rest  or  a  moment's  space  to  recover  breath. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  Palamides  grew  faint  and 
weary  from  the  violence  of  his  efforts,  but  Helius 
seemed  as  strong  as  ever,  and  redoubling  his  strokes 
he  drove  back  the  Saracen  knight  step  by  step, 
over  all  the  field.  At  this  the  people  of  the  city 
were  filled  with  fear,  while  the  party  of  Helius 
shouted  with  triumph. 

"  Alas ! "  cried  the  citizens,  "  that  this  noble 
knight  should  be  slain  for  our  king's  sake." 

While  thev  thus  bewailed  his  threatened  fate  and 
the  seeming  victory  of  their  tyrant,  Helius  showered 


54       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

SO  many  vigorous  blows  on  his  weakened  foe  that 
it  was  a  wonder  he  kept  his  feet.  But  when  he 
saw  how  the  common  people  wept  for  him  his  heart 
was  filled  with  a  sense  of  shame,  while  a  glow  of 
fury  burned  like  fire  in  his  veins. 

"  Fie  on  you  for  a  dastard,  Palamides ! ''  he  said 
to  himself.  "Why  hang  you  your  head  so  like  a 
whipped  hound  ?  '^ 

Then,  with  a  new  spirit  burning  hotly  within 
him,  and  fresh  strength  animating  his  limbs,  he 
lifted  his  drooping  shield  and  turned  on  Helius 
with  lion-like  fury,  smiting  him  a  vigorous  blow 
on  the  helm,  which  he  followed  quickly  by  others. 
This  violent  onset  was  too  much  for  the  strained 
strength  of  the  false  knight,  and  he  retreated  in 
dismay,  while  the  sword  of  Palamides  fell  with  ever 
more  and  more  might.  At  length  came  so  mighty 
a  blow  that  he  was  hurled  like  a  log  to  the  earth. 
The  victorious  Saracen  gave  him  no  time  to  re- 
cover, but  sprang  upon  him  like  a  fury,  tore  the 
helm  from  his  head,  and  with  a  final  stroke  smote 
the  head  from  his  body. 

Then  he  rose  and  stood  leaning  upon  his  sword, 
hardly  able  to  bear  himself  on  his  feet,  while  from 
all  the  people  of  the  city  went  up  loud  shouts  of 
joy  and  congratulation. 

"  Palamides,  the  conqueror !  Palamides,  our  de- 
liverer !  Palamides,  our  king ! "  they  shouted, 
while  one  adorned  liis  brows  with  a  wreath  of  laurel, 
and  others  tore  off  his  armor  and  applied  oint- 
ments to  his  bleeding  limbs. 

"  Fair  friends,  your  crown  is  not  for  me/'  he 
said.     "I  have  delivered  you  from  your  tyrants, 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.  55 

but  you  must  choose  some  other  king,  as  I  am 
under  promise  to  return  with  all  speed  to  my  lord 
King  Arthur  at  the  castle  of  Lonazep/' 

This  decision  filled  them  with  grief,  but  they 
brought  him  to  the  city  and  treated  him  with  all 
the  honor  which  they  could  bestow  upon  him.  And 
as  he  persisted  in  his  refusal  of  the  crown,  they 
proffered  him  a  third  part  of  their  goods  if  he 
would  remain  with  them.  All  this  he  declined, 
and  in  a  short  time  departed,  bearing  with  him  a 
thousand  good  wishes  and  prayers  for  success  and 
fortune. 

He  was  received  with  like  joy  and  congratula- 
tion at  the  castle.  Sir  Ebel  warmly  pressing  him 
to  change  his  decision  and  remain  as  their  king. 
To  this  Palamides  would  by  no  means  consent, 
and  after  a  day's  stay  he  took  ship  again,  and 
sailed  up  the  Humber  to  the  castle  of  Lonazep. 


CHAPTEE  V. 

THE    TOURNAMENT    AT    LONAZEP. 

When  Palamides  learned  that  Tristram  was  not 
at  Lonazep,  he  tarried  not  there,  but  crossed  the 
Humber,  and  sought  him  at  Joyous  Gard.  Here 
he  found  lodgings  in  the  town,  and  word  was 
quickly  brought  to  Tristram  that  a  knight-errant 
had  come. 


56       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  What  manner  of  man  is  he  ?  and  what  sign  does 
he  bear  ?  ^'   he  asked. 

The  messenger  described  his  armor  and  appear- 
ance. 

"That  is  Palamides/'  said  Dinadan.  "The 
brave  fellow  is  already  back,  and  victorious,  I 
doubt  not/' 

"  It  looks  that  way,  indeed.  Go  and  bid  him 
welcome  to  Joyous  Gard,''  said  Tristram. 

So  Dinadan  went  to  Palamides,  and  joyfully 
greeted  him,  listening  eagerly  to  the  story  of  his 
exploits,  and  congratulating  him  on  his  signal  suc- 
cess. He  remained  with  him  that  night,  and  in 
the  morning  they  were  visited  by  Tristram  and 
Gareth  before  they  had  arisen. 

Many  were  the  warm  congratulations  which  Tris- 
tram gave  Palamides  on  his  noble  achievement, 
and  after  they  had  breakfasted  he  invited  him  to 
ride  into  the  fields  and  woods,  that  they  might 
repose  under  the  cool  shelter  of  the  forest.  Here 
they  alighted  by  a  refreshing  spring,  and  as  they 
sat  conversing  an  armed  knight  came  riding  towards 
them. 

"  Who  are  those  knights  that  are  lodged  in  Joyous 
Gard  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  That  I  cannot  sav/'  answered  Tristram. 

"  At  any  rate  you  can  tell  me  who  you  are.  You 
are  not  knights-errant,  I  fancy,  since  you  ride 
unarmed.'' 

"  Whether  we  be  or  no,  we  prefer  not  to  tell  our 
names." 

"  You  are  not  courteous,  sir  knight,  and  this  is 
the   way    I    pay    discourtesy,"   said    the   stranger. 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.       57 

"  Guard  yourself,  or  you  shall  die  by  my  hands/^ 

Then,  spear  in  hand,  he  rode  on  Sir  Tristram, 
with  brutal  intent  to  run  him  through.  But  Pal- 
amides  sprang  up  hastily,  and  smote  the  knight's 
horse  so  fierce  a  blow  with  his  clinched  fist  that 
horse  and  man  fell  together  to  the  earth.  He  then 
drew  his  sword  to  slay  him. 

"  Let  the  dog  go,"  said  Tristram.  "  He  is  but 
a  fool,  and  it  were  a  shame  to  slay  him  for  his 
folly.  Take  the  fellow's  spear  from  him,  though. 
It  is  a  weapon  he  has  not  learned  the  use  of.'' 

The  knight  rose  groaning,  and  when  he  had 
regained  his  saddle  he  again  requested  their  names. 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  de  Lyonesse,  and  this 
knight's  name  is  Palamides.  Would  you  know 
more  ?  " 

"  No,  by  my  faith ! "  cried  the  other,  and,  has- 
tily putting  spurs  to  his  horse,  he  rode  away  as 
fast  as  the  animal  would  carry  him. 

Hardly  had  he  gone  when  a  knight,  who  bore 
a  bended  shield  of  azure,  came  riding  up  at  a 
furious  gallop. 

"  My  fair  sirs,"  he  asked,  *^  has  a  knight  passed 
here  bearing  a  shield  with  a  case  of  red  over  it?  " 

"  Yes.  We  but  now  had  some  trouble  with  such 
a  fellow.     Who  is  he?" 

"  And  you  let  him  escape  ?  That  was  ill-advised, 
fair  sirs.  He  is  the  falsest  rogue  and  the  greatest 
foe  to  knights-errant  living.  His  name  is  Breuse 
Sans  Pite." 

"  And  I  had  him  under  my  sword !  "  cried  Pala- 
mides.    "  Fool  T  was  to  let  him  go." 

"  If  I  overtake  him  there  will  be  another  story 


58       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

to  tell/^  answered  the  knight,  as  he  spurred  onward 
on  the  track  of  the  fugitive. 

Then  the  four  friends  mounted  and  rode  leisurely 
back  towards  Joyous  Gard,  much  conversing  as  they 
went.  When  they  reached  the  castle  Palamides 
wished  not  to  enter,  but  Tristram  insisted  on  it, 
and,  taking  him  by  the  hand,  led  him  in. 

When  Palamides  saw  La  Belle  Isolde,  whom  he 
had  not  met  for  years,  but  for  whom  his  love  burned 
as  warmly  as  ever,  he  was  so  ravished  with  joy 
that  he  could  scarcely  speak.  And  when  they  were 
at  dinner  he  could  not  eat  ar  morsel,  but  sat  like  a 
dumb  man,  scarcely  venturing  to  raise  his  eyes  to 
Isolde's  lovely  countenance. 

Poorly  he  slept  that  night,  and  with  many 
dreams  of  her  he  loved.  When  morning  broke  they 
all  prepared  to  ride  to  Lonazep.  Tristram  took 
with  him  three  squires,  and  Queen  Isolde  had  three 
gentlewomen,  all  attired  with  great  richness. 
These,  with  the  other  knights  and  their  squires, 
and  valets  to  bear  their  shields  aiid  spears,  formed 
their  train. 

Not  far  had  they  gone  before  they  saw  on  the 
road  before  them  a  group  of  knights.  Chief  of 
these  was  the  knight  Galihodin,  who  was  attended 
by  twenty  companions. 

'*  Fair  fellows,^'  said  Galihodin,  "  yonder  come 
four  knights  escorting  a  richly-attired  lady.  What 
say  vou  ?  shall  we  take  her  from  them  ?  '' 

"  That  is  not  the  best  counsel/'  said  one. 

"  At  any  rate,  it  is  my  counsel/'  answered  Gali- 
hodin. "  We  shall  =  show  them  that  we  have  the 
right  of  the  road.''     And  he  sent  a  squire  to  them. 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.  69 

asking  them  if  they  would  joust,  or  else  lose  their 
lady. 

"  We  are  but  four/'  said  Tristram.  "  Tell  your 
lord  to  come  with  three  of  his  comrades,  and  win 
her  if  he  can/' 

"Let  me  have  this  joust/'  said  Palamides.  "I 
will  undertake  them  all  four." 

"  As  you  will/'  said  Tristram.  "  Go  tell  your 
lord  that  this  one  knight  will  encounter  him  and 
anv  three  of  his  fellows." 

The  squire  departed  with  his  challenge,  and  in 
a  trice  Galihodin  came  riding  forward  spear  in 
rest.  Palamides  encountered  him  in  mid  career, 
and  smote  him  so  hard  a  blow  that  he  had  a  ter- 
rible fall  to  the  earth,  and  his  horse  with  him. 
His  three  comrades  were  served  in  the  same  sum- 
mary manner,  while  Palamides  still  bore  an  un- 
broken spear.  At  this  unlooked-for  result  six 
knights  rode  out  from  the  opposite  party  with 
purpose  of  revenge  on  the  victor. 

"  Hold  vour  hands,"  cried  Gfalihodin.  "  Let  not 
one  of  you  touch  this  noble  knight,  who  has  proved 
himself  a  man  of  worth.  And  I  doubt  if  the  whole 
of  you  could  handle  him." 

When  Palamides  saw  that  the  field  was  yielded 
to  him  he  rode  back  to  Sir  Tristram. 

"  Well  and  worshipfully  have  you  done,"  said 
Tristram.     "  No  man  could  have  surpassed  you." 

Onward  they  rode  again,  and  in  a  little  while 
after  met  four  knights  in  the  highway,  with  spears 
in  rest.  These  were  Gawaine  and  three  companions. 
This  joust  also  Tristram  gave  to  Palamides,  and 
he  served  these  four  as  he  had  served  the  others. 


60       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

leaving  them  all  unhorsed  in  the  road.  For  the 
presence  of  La  Belle  Isolde  gave  the  strength  of 
ten  men  to  the  arm  of  her  lover,  the  Saracen. 

They  now  continued  their  route  without  moles- 
tation, and  in  good  time  reached  the  spot  where 
Tristram  had  ordered  his  pavilions  to  be  set  up. 
Here  were  now  many  more  pavilions  than  they 
had  seen  on  their  previous  visit,  and  a  great  array 
of  knights,  who  had  been  gathering  for  many 
days,  for  far  and  wide  had  spread  the  news  of  the 
great  tournament. 

Leaving  Palamides  and  Gareth  at  the  pavilions 
with  Queen  Isolde,  Tristram  and  Dinadan  rode  to 
Lonazep  to  learn  what  was  afoot,  Tristram  riding 
on  the  Saracen  knight's  white  horse.  As  they 
came  into  the  castle  the  sound  of  a  great  bugle- 
blast  met  their  ears,  and  many  knights  crowded 
forward. 

"What  means  the  blast?"  asked  Tristram. 

"  Sir,''  answered  a  knight,  "  it  comes  from  the 
party  who  hold  against  King  Arthur  at  this  tourna- 
ment. These  are  the  kings  of  Ireland,  of  Surluse, 
of  Listinoise,  of  Northumberland,  of  Xorth  Wales, 
and  of  other  countries.  They  are  calling  a  council 
to  decide  how  they  shall  be  governed  in  the  lists." 

Tristram  thereupon  followed  them  to  their  coun- 
cil, and  listened  to  the  debate.  He  then  sought 
his  horse  again,  and  rode  by  where  King  Arthur 
stood  surrounded  ])y  a  press  of  knights.  Among 
those  were  Galihodin  and  Gawaine,  who  said  to  the 
king:  "That  knight  in  the  green  harness,  with 
the  white  horse,  is  a  man  of  might,  whoever  lie 
be.  To-day  he  overthrew  us  both,  with  six  of  our 
fellows." 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.        61 

"  Who  can  he  be  ?  "  said  the  king,  and  he  called 
Tristram  to  him,  and  requested  to  know  his  name. 

"  I  beg  pardon,  my  liege  lord,'^  answered  Tris- 
tram, "and  pray  that  you  will  hold  me  excused 
from  revealing  my  name  at  this  time,"  and  he 
turned  his  horse  and  rode  away. 

"  Go  after  him.  Sir  Griflet,"  said  the  king. 
"  Tell  him  that  I  wish  to  speak  with  him  apart.'' 

Griflet  rode  to  Tristram  and  told  him  the  king's 
wish,  and  the  two  returned  in  company. 

"  Fair  sir,"  said  the  king,  "  what  is  the  cause 
that  you  withhold  your  name?" 

"  I  have  an  excellent  reason,  but  beg  that  you 
will  not  press  me  for  it." 

"  With  which  party  do  you  hold  ?  " 

"Truly,  my  lord,  that  I  cannot  say.  Where  my 
heart  draws  or  my  fancy  bids  I  will  go.  To- 
morrow you  shall  see  which  side  I  take.  To-day 
I  know  not  mvself ." 

ft/ 

Leaving  the  king,  he  rode  back  to  where  his 
pavilions  were  set.  When  the  morning  dawned  he 
and  his  three  companions  armed  themselves  all  in 
green  and  rode  to  the  lists.  Here  young  knights 
had  begun  to  joust,  and,  seeing  this,  Gareth  asked 
leave  of  Tristram  to  break  a  spear. 

"  Go  in  and  do  3'our  best  if  you  care  to  play  with 
beginners,"   said   Tristram,  laughing. 

But  Gareth  found  himself  encountered  by  a 
nephew  of  the  king  with  the  hundred  knights, 
who  had  some  of  his  uncle's  tough  fibre,  and  both 
got  ugly  falls,  and  lay  on  the  ground  till  they 
were  helped  up  by  their  friends.  Then  Tristram 
and  Palamides  rode  with  Gareth  back  to  the  pavil- 


62       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

ions,  where  they  removed  their  helmets.  When 
Isolde  saw  Gareth  all  bruised  in  the  face,  she 
asked  him  what  ailed  him. 

"  Madam,  I  had  a  hard  buffet,  and  gave  another, 
but  none  of  my  fellows  would  rescue  me." 

"  Only  unproved  knights  are  yet  in  the  field,'* 
said  Palamides.  "  The  man  that  met  you,  though, 
was  a  strong  and  well-trained  knight.  Sir  Selises 
by  name,  so  you  have  no  dishonor.  Rest  here  and 
get  yourself  in  condition  for  to-morrow's  work." 

"  I  shall  not  fail  you  if  I  can  bestride  my  horse," 
said  Gareth. 

"What  party  is  it  best  for  us  to  join  to-mor- 
row ?  "  asked  Tristram. 

"  Against  King  Arthur,  is  my  advice,"  said  Pala- 
mides. "  Lancelot  and  many  other  good  men  will 
be  on  his  side,  and  the  more  men  of  prowess  we 
meet  the  more  honor  we  will  win." 

"Well  and  knightly  spoken,"  said  Tristram. 
"  Hard  blows  is  what  we  court.  Your  counsel  is 
well  given." 

"  So  think  we  all,"  said  the  others. 

On  the  morrow,  when  day  had  broken,  they 
arrayed  themselves  in  green  trappings,  with  shields 
and  spears  of  green,  while  Isolde  and  her  three 
damsels  wore  dresses  of  the  same  color.  For  the 
ladies  Tristram  found  seats  in  a  bay  window  of  a 
priory  which  overlooked  the  field,  and  from  which 
they  could  see  all  that  took  place.  This  done,  they 
rode  straight  to  the  party  of  the  king  of  Scots. 

When  Arthur  saw  this  he  asked  Lancelot  who 
were  these  knights  and  the  queenlv  lady  who  came 
with  them. 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.  63 

"That  I  cannot  say  for  certain.  Yet  if  Tris- 
tram and  Palamides  be  in  this  country  then  it  is 
they  and  I^a  Belle  Isolde." 

Then  Arthur  turned  to  Kay  and  said, — 

"  Go  to  the  hall  and  see  how  many  Knights  of 
the  Eound  Table  are  missing,  and  bring  me  word." 

Kay  did  so,  and  found  by  the  roll  of  knights 
that  ten  were  wanting, — Tristram,  Dinadan,  and 
eight  others. 

"  Then  I  dare  say,"  remarked  Arthur,  "  that 
some  of  these  are  here  to-day  against  us." 

The  tournament  began  with  a  combat  in  which 
two  knights,  cousins  to  Gawaine,  named  Sir  Ed- 
ward and  Sir  Sadok,  rode  against  the  king  of  Scots 
and  the  king  of  North  Wales  and  overthrew  them 
both.  Thia  Palamides  saw,  and  in  return  he 
spurred  upon  these  victorious  knights  and  hurled 
both  of  them  from  their  saddles. 

"  What  knight  is  that  in  green  ?  "  asked  Arthur. 
"  He  is  a  mighty  jouster." 

"  You  will  see  him  do  better  yet,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  It  was  he  that  unhorsed  me  and  seven  others 
two  days  ago." 

As  they  stood  talking  Tristram  rode  into  the 
lists  on  a  black  horse,  and  within  a  few  minutes 
he  smote  down  four  knights  of  Orkney,  while 
Gareth  and  Dinadan  each  unhorsed  a  good  knight. 

"Yonder  is  another  fellow  of  marvellous  arm," 
said  Arthur;  "that  green  knight  on  the  black 
horse." 

"  He  has  not  begun  his  work  yet,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  It  is  plain  that  he  is  no  common  man." 

And  so  it  proved,  for  Sir  Tristram  pushed  fiercely 


64       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  QARD. 

into  the  press,  rescued  the  two  kings  who  had  been 
unhorsed,  and  did  such  mighty  work  among  the 
opposing  party  that  all  who  saw  him  marvelled  to 
behold  one  man  do  so  many  valiant  deeds.  Nor 
was  the  career  of  Palamides  less  marvellous  to  the 
spectators. 

King  Arthur,  who  watched  them  both  with  ad- 
miring eyes,  likened  Tristram  to  a  furious  lion, 
and  Palamides  to  a  maddened  leopard,  and  Gareth 
and  Dinadan,  who  seconded  them  strongly,  to  eager 
wolves.  So  fiercely  did  Tristram  rage,  indeed, 
among  the  knights  of  Orkney  that  at  length  they 
withdrew  from  the  field,  as  no  longer  able  to  face 
him. 

Then  loud  went  up  the  cry  of  the  heralds  and 
the  common  people, — 

"  The  green  knight  has  beaten  all  Orkney ! " 
And  the  heralds  took  account  that  not  less  than  fifty 
knights  had  been  smitten  down  by  the  four  cham- 
pions in  green. 

"  This  will  not  do,"  said  Arthur.  "  Our  party 
will  be  overmatched  if  these  fellows  rage  on  at 
such  a  rate.  Come,  Lancelot,  you  and  Hector  and 
Bleoberis  must  try  your  hands,  and  I  will  make  a 
fourth." 

"  Let  it  be  so,"  answered  Lancelot.  "  Let  me 
take  him  on  the  black  horse,  and  Bleoberis  him  on 
the  white.  Hector  shall  match  him  on  the  gray 
horse"  (Sir  Gareth). 

"  And  I,"  said  Arthur,  "  will  face  the  knight  on 
the  grizzled  steed"  (Sir  Dinadan). 

With  this  conversation  thev  armed  and  rode  to 
the  lists.     Here  Lancelot  rode  against  Tristram  and 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.        65 

smote  him  so  hard  a  blow  that  horse  and  man 
went  to  the  earth,  while  his  three  companions  met 
with  the  same  ill  fortune  from  their  new  antag- 
onists. 

This  disaster  raised  a  cry  throughout  the  lists: 
**  The  green  knights  are  down !  Eescue  the  green 
knights !  Let  them  not  be  held  prisoners !  "  For 
the  understanding  was  that  any  unhorsed  knight 
not  rescued  by  his  own  strength  or  by  his  fellows 
should  be  held  as  prisoner. 

Then  the  king  of  North  Wales  rode  straight  to 
Tristram,  and  sprang  from  his  horse,  crying, — 

"  Noble  knight,  I  know  not  of  what  country 
you  are,  but  beg  you  to  take  my  horse,  for  you 
have  proved  yourself  worthier  to  bestride  it  than 
I  am." 

"  Many  thanks,"  said  Tristram.  "  I  shall  try 
and  do  you  as  welcome  a  turn.  Keep  near  us,  and 
I  may  soon  win  you  another  horse." 

Then  he  sprang  to  the  saddle,  and  meeting  with 
King  Arthur  struck  him  so  fierce  a  sword-blow 
on  the  helm  that  he  had  no  power  to  keep  his 
saddle. 

"Here  is  the  horse  promised  you,"  cried  Tris- 
tram to  the  king  of  North  Wales,  who  was  quickly 
remounted  on  King  Arthur's  horse. 

Then  came  a  hot  contest  around  the  king,  one 
party  seeking  to  mount  him  again  and  the  other 
to  hold  him  prisoner.  Palamides  thrust  himself, 
on  foot,  into  the  press,  striking  such  mighty  blows 
to  the  right  and  left  that  the  whole  throng  were 
borne  back  before  him.  At  the  same  time  Tris- 
tram rode  into  the  thickest  of  the  throng  of  knights 

II-6 


66       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

and  cut  a  way  through  them,  hurling  many  of  them 
to  the  earth. 

This  done,  he  left  the  lists  and  rode  to  his  pavil- 
ion, where  he  changed  his  horse  and  armor;  he 
who  had  gone  forth  as  a  green  knight  coming  back 
to  the  fray  as  a  red  one. 

When  Queen  Isolde  saw  that  Tristram  was  un- 
horsed, and  lost  sight  of  him  in  the  press,  she  wept 
greatly,  fearing  that  some  harm  had  come  to  him. 
But  when  he  rode  back  she  knew  him  in  an  instant, 
despite  his  red  disguise,  and  her  heart  swelled 
anew  with  joy  as  she  saw  him  with  one  spear  smite 
down  five  knights.  Lancelot,  too,  now  knew  him, 
and  withdrew  from  the  lists  lest  he  should  encounter 
him  again. 

All  this  time  Tristram's  three  friends  had  not 
been  able  to  regain  their  saddles,  but  now  he  drove 
back  the  press  and  helped  them  again  to  horse, 
and,  though  they  knew  him  not  in  his  new  array, 
they  aided  him  with  all  their  knightly  prowess. 

When  Isolde,  at  her  window,  saw  what  havoc  her 
chosen  knight  was  making,  she  leaned  eagerly  forth 
and  laughed  and  smiled  in  delight.  This  Pala- 
mides  saw,  and  the  vision  of  her  lovely  and  smiling 
countenance  filled  his  soul  so  deeply  with  love's 
rejoicing  that  there  seemed  to  flow  into  him  the 
strength  and  spirit  of  ten  men,  and,  with  a  shout 
of  knightly  challenge,  he  pressed  forward,  smiting 
down  with  spear  and  sword  every  man  he  encoun- 
tered. For  his  heart  was  so  enamoured  by  the 
vision  of  that  charming  face  that  Tristram  or 
Lancelot  would  then  have  had  much  ado  to  stand 
before  him. 


66 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.        67 

"Truly  Palamides  is  a  noble  warrior,"  said 
Tristram,  when  he  beheld  this.  "  I  never  saw  him 
do  such  deeds  as  he  has  done  this  day,  nor  heard 
of  his  showing  such  prowess." 

"  It  is  his  day,"  said  Dinadan,  simply.  But  to 
himself  he  said,  "  If  you  knew  for  whose  love  he 
does  these  valorous  deeds,  you  would  soon  be  in 
the  field  against  him." 

"  It  is  a  crying  pity  that  so  brave  a  knight  should 
be  a  pagan,"  said  Tristram. 

It   is    my    fancy,"    said    Dinadan    to   himself, 

that  you  may  thank  Queen  Isolde  for  what  you 
have  seen;  if  she  had  not  been  here  to-day  that 
shouting  throng  would  not  be  giving  Palamides 
the  palm  of  the  tourney." 

At  this  juncture  Lancelot  came  again  into  the 
field,  and  hearing  the  outcry  in  favor  of  Palamides 
he  set  his  spear  in  rest  and  spurred  upon  him. 
Palamides,  seeing  this,  and  having  no  spear,  coolly 
awaited  Lancelot,  and  as  he  came  up  smote  his 
spear  in  two  with  a  sword-stroke.  Then  he  rushed 
upon  him  and  struck  his  horse  so  hard  a  blow  in 
the  neck  that  the  animal  fell,  bearing  his  rider  to 
the  ground. 

Loud  and  fierce  was  the  outcry  then :  "  Pala- 
mides the  Saracen  has  smitten  Sir  Lancelot's  horse ! 
It  is  an  unknightly  deed !  " 

And  Hector  de  Maris,  seeing  his  brother  Lan- 
celot thus  unfairly  dismounted,,  rushed  upon  Pala- 
mides in  a  rage,  and  bore  him  from  his  horse  with 
a  mighty  spear- thrust. 

"Take  heed  to  yourself,  sirrah,"  cried  Lancelot, 
springing  towards  him  sword  in  hand.     "  You  have 


68       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 


done  me  a  sorry  deed,  and  by  my  knightly  honor 
I  will  repay  you  for  it/^ 

"  I  humbly  beg  your  pardon,  noble  sir/^  an- 
swered Palamides.  "  I  have  done  so  much  this 
day  that  I  have  no  power  or  strength  left  to  with- 
stand you.  Forgive  me  my  hasty  and  uncourteous 
deed,  and  I  promise  to  be  your  knight  while  I 
live.'^ 

"  You  have  done  marvellously  well  indeed,'^  said 
Lancelot.  "  I  understand  well  what  power  moves 
you.  Ijoye  is  a  mighty  mistress,  and  if  she  I  love 
were  here  to-day  you  should  not  bear  away  the  honor 
of  the  field,  though  you  have  nobly  won  it.  Beware 
that  Tristram  discovers  not  your  love,  or  you  may 
repent  it.  But  I  have  no  quarrel  with  you,  and 
will  not  seek  to  take  from  you  the  honor  of  the 
day.- 

So  Lancelot  suffered  Palamides  to  depart,  and 
mounted  his  own  horse  again,  despite  twenty 
knights  who  sought  to  hinder  him.  Lancelot,  Tris- 
tram, and  Palamides  did  many  more  noble  deeds 
before  that  day's  end,  and  so  great  became  the 
medlev  at  length  that  the  field  seemed  a  dense  mass 
of  rearing  and  plunging  horses  and  struggling 
knights. 

At  length  Arthur  bade  the  heralds  to  blow  to 
lodging  and  the  fray  ended.  And  since  Palamides 
had  been  in  the  field  from  first  to  last,  without  once 
withdrawing,  and  had  done  so  many,  noble  and 
valiant  deeds,  the  honor  and  the  prize  for  the 
day  were  unanimously  voted  him,  a  judgment  which 
Arthur  and  the  kings  of  his  counsel  unanimously 
confirmed. 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONAZEP.  69 

But  when  Palamides  came  to  understand  that 
the  red  knight  who  had  rescued  him  was  Sir  Tris- 
tram his  heart  was  glad,  for  all  but  Dinadan  fancied 
he  had  been  taken  prisoner.  Much  was  the  talk 
upon  the  events  of  the  day,  and  great  the  wonder  of 
king  and  knights  at  the  remarkable  valor  of  the 
Saracen  knight. 

"  And  yet  I  well  know/^  said  Lancelot,  "  that 
there  was  a  better  knight  there  than  he.  And 
take  my  word  for  it,  this  will  be  proved  before  the 
tournament  ends.'^ 

This  also  thought  Dinadan,  and  he  rallied  his 
friend  Tristram  with  satirical  tongue. 

"What  the  fiend  has  ailed  you  to-day?^'  he 
asked.  "  Palamides  grew  in  strength  from  first 
to  last,  but  you  have  been  like  a  man  asleep,  or  a 
coward  knight." 

"  I  was  never  called  coward  before,"  said  Tris- 
tram, hotly.  "  The  only  fall  I  got  was  from  Lan- 
celot, and  him  I  hold  as  my  better,  and  for  that 
matter  the  better  of  any  man  alive." 

But  Dinadan  kept  up  his  railing  accusations  till 
the  growing  anger  of  Tristram  warned  him  to  de- 
sist. Yet  this  was  all  from  friendship,  not  from 
spite,  for  he  wished  to  stir  up  his  friend  to  do  his 
best  in  the  lists  the  coming  day,  and  not  permit 
the  Saracen  again  to  carry  off  the  prize. 


70       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

THE  SECOND  DAY  OF  THE  TOURNAMENT. 

When  the  next  morning  dawned,  Tristram,  Pala- 
mides,  and  Gareth,  with  La  Belle  Isolde  and  her 
ladies,  all  arrayed  as  before  in  green,  took  horse 
at  an  early  hour,  and  rode  into  the  fresh  forest. 
But  Dinadan  was  left  still  asleep  in  bed.  As  they 
passed  the  castle  at  a  little  distance,  it  chanced 
that  King  Arthur  and  Lancelot  saw  them  from  an 
upper  window. 

"  Yonder  rideth  the  fairest  lady  of  the  world,^' 
said  Lancelot,  "  always  excepting  your  queen,  Guen- 
ever.^^ 

"  Who  is  it  ?  "   asked  Arthur. 

"  It  is  La  Belle  Isolde,  Cornwall's  queen  and 
Tristram^s  lady-love." 

"  By  my  troth,  I  should  like  to  see  her  closer," 
said  the  king.  "  Let  us  arm  and  mount,  and  ride 
after  them." 

This  they  did,  and  in  a  short  time  were  on  the 
track  of  the  gay  cavalcade  they  had  seen. 

Let  us  not  be  too  hasty,"  warned  Lancelot. 
There  are  some  knights  who  resent  being  intruded 
on  abruptly;  particularly  if  in  the  company  of 
ladies." 

"  x\s  for  that,  we  must  take  our  chances,"  said 
Arthur.  "  If  they  feel  aggrieved  I  cannot  help 
it,  for  I  am  bent  on  seeing  Queen  Isolde." 

Seeing  Tristram  and  his  companions  just  in  ad- 
vance, x\rthur  rode  briskly  up  and  saluted  Isolde 


<6 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OF  THE  TOURNAMENT.   71 

courteously,  saying,  "  God  save  you,  fair  lady.'^ 

"  Thanks  for  your  courtesy,  sir  knight,^^  she 
replied. 

Then  Arthur  looked  upon  her  charming  coun- 
tenance, freshened  by  the  morning  air,  and  thought 
in  his  mind  that  Lancelot  had  spoken  but  the  truth, 
and  that  no  more  beautiful  ladv  lived.  But  at  this 
moment  Palamides  rode  up. 

Sir  knight,  what  seek  you  here?"    he  asked. 

It  is  uncourteous  to  come  on  a  lady  so  suddenly. 
Your  intrusion  is  not  to  our  liking,  and  I  bid  you 
to  withdraw." 

Arthur  paid  no  heed  to  these  words,  but  con- 
tinued to  gaze  upon  Isolde,  as  one  stricken  with 
admiration.  Seeing  this,  Palamides  flamed  into 
anger,  and  spurred  fiercely  upon  the  king,  with 
spear  in  rest,  smiting  him  from  his  horse. 

"  Here  is  an  awkward  business,"  said  Lancelot 
to  himself.  "  If  I  ride  down  Palamides  I  shall 
have  Tristram  on  me;  and  the  pair  of  them  would 
be  too  much  for  me.  This  comes  from  too  head- 
strong a  will.  But  whether  I  live  or  die  I  must 
stand  by  my  lord  and  king."  Then  riding  forward, 
he  called  to  Palamides,  "  Keep  thee  from  me ! " 

Fierce  was  the  onset  with  which  thev  met,  but  it 
ended  in  Lancelot's  favor,  for  Palamides  was  flung 
from  his  saddle  and  had  a  hard  fall. 

When  Tristram  saw  this  he  called  to  Lancelot, 
"  Be  on  your  guard,  sir  knight.  You  have  un- 
horsed my  comrade,  and  must  joust  with  me." 

"  T  have  no  dread  of  that,"  said  Lancelot ;  "  and 
yet  I  did  l)ut  avenge  my  lord,  who  was  unhorsed 
unwarily  and  unknightly.     You  have  no  cause  for 


72       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  OARD. 

displeasure;  for  no  honorable  knight  could  stand 
by  and  see  his  friend  ill-treated/^ 

Tristram  now  felt  sure  that  it  was  Lancelot  who 
spoke,  and  that  it  was  King  Arthur  whom  Pala- 
mides  had  unhorsed.  He  therefore  laid  aside  his 
spear  and  helped  Palamides  again  to  his  saddle, 
while  Lancelot  did  the  same  for  the  king. 

"  That  deed  of  thine  was  not  knightly  nor  cour- 
teous," said  Tristram,  sternly  to  Palamides,  after 
the  others  had  departed.  "  I  cannot  see  any  harm 
in  a  knight  accosting  a  lady  gently  and  courteously ; 
nor  am  I  pleased  to  have  you  play  such  masteries 
before  my  lady.  If  I  deem  her  insulted,  I  am  quite 
able  myself  to  protect  her.  And  if  I  am  not  mis- 
taken, it  was  King  Arthur  you  assailed  so  rudely, 
and  the  other  was  Lancelot  du  Lake.  You  may  yet 
have  to  pay  for  your  violence." 

"  I  cannot  think,"  said  Palamides,  "  that  the 
great  Arthur  would  ride  thus  secretly  arrayed  as 
a  poor  knight-errant." 

"  Then  you  know  him  not,"  said  Tristram.  "  No 
knight  living  is  fonder  of  adventure.  King  Arthur 
is  always  ready  to  take  his  part  as  an  errant  knight, 
nor  does  he  bear  malice  against  those  who  may 
overthrow  him  when  in  disguise.  I  tell  you,  Pala- 
mides, that  our  king  is  the  true  model  of  knightly 
honor,  and  that  the  best  of  us  might  learn  from 
him." 

"  If  it  were  he  I  am  sorry,"  said  Palamides.  *^  I 
may  have  been  over-hasty.  But  a  thing  that  is 
done  cannot  be  undone,  and  I  must  abide  the  con- 
sequences." 

Then  Tristram  sent  Isolde  to  her  lodging  in  the 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OP  THE  TOURNAMENT.        73 

priory,  from  which  she  might  behold  the  tourna- 
ment, and  made  ready  to  enter  the  lists. 

Fierce  was  the  shock  of  the  first  encounter  of  the 
knights,  and  the  three  champions  in  green  began 
the  day  with  many  deeds  of  might. 

"How  feel  you?^^  asked  Tristram  of  Palamides. 
"  Are  you  able  to  repeat  yesterday's  work  ? '' 

"Hardly,"  was  the  reply.  "I  am  weary  and 
sore  yet  from  my  hard  labors." 

"  I  am  sorry  for  that,  as  I  shall  miss  your  aid." 

"  Trust  not  to  me,"  answered  Palamides.  "  I 
have  not  much  work  left  in  me." 

"  Then  I  must  depend  on  you,"  said  Tristram 
to  Gareth.  "  We  two  should  be  able  to  make  our 
mark.  Keep  near  me  and  rescue  me  if  I  get  in 
trouble,  and  I  will  do  the  same  for  you." 

"I  shall  not  fail  you,"  was  the  reply. 

Leaving  them,  Palamides  rode  off  by  himself, 
and,  pushing  into  the  thickest  press  of  the  men 
of  Orkney,  did  such  deeds  of  arms  that  Tristram 
looked  on  in  amazement. 

"  Is  that  his  soreness  and  weariness  ?  "  he  asked. 
"  I  fancy  he  is  weary  of  my  company,  and  wishes 
to  win  all  the  honor  to  his  own  hand." 

"  That  is  what  Dinadan  meant  yesterday  when 
he  called  you  coward,"  said  Gareth.  "  He  but 
wished  to  stir  you  to  anger  so  that  Palamides  should 
not  rob  you  of  credit." 

"  By  my  faith,  if  Palamides  bears  me  ill  will  and 
envy  T  shall  show  him  what  a  knight  of  Cornwall 
can  do.  He  has  gained  the  acclamations  of  the 
crowd  already.  He  has  left  our  company  and  we 
owe  him  no  courtesv.  You  shall  see  me  rob  him 
of  his  honors." 


74       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

Then  Tristram  rode  into  the  thickest  of  the  press, 
and  laid  about  him  with  such  might  that  all  eyes 
were  turned  upon  him,  and  men  began  to  say, 
"  There  is  a  greater  than  Palamides  come  into  the 
field." 

^^  Is  it  not  as  I  told  you  ? "  said  Lancelot  to 
Arthur.  "  I  said  you  would  this  day  see  the  Sara- 
cen distanced." 

"  It  is  true  enough,"  answered  Arthur.  "  Pala- 
mides has  not  such  strength  of  arm." 

"  It  is  Tristram  himself  you  look  upon." 

"  That  I  can  well  believe,"  said  Arthur.  "  Such 
knights  as  he  do  not  grow  like  mushrooms  in  everv 
field." 

The  noise  from  the  other  part  of  the  lists  now 
drew  the  attention  of  Palamides,  and  when  he  saw 
what  puissant  deeds  his  late  comrade  was  doing 
he  wept  for  spite,  for  he  saw  that  the  honor  of  that 
day  was  not  for  him. 

Seeing  to  what  straits  their  party  was  put, 
Arthur  and  Lancelot  and  many  other  knights  now 
armed  and  rode  into  the  field,  and  by  their  aid  so 
changed  the  tide  of  victory  that  the  other  side  was 
driven  quite  back,  until  Tristram  and  Gareth  stood 
alone,  bravely  abiding  all  who  came  upon  them. 
But  Lancelot  and  his  kinsmen  kept  purposely  away 
from  them. 

"  See,"  said  Lancelot  to  Arthur,  ^^  how  Pala- 
mides hovers  yonder  like  one  in  a  dream,  sick,  I 
fancy,  from  envy  of  Tristram." 

^^  Then  he  is  but  a  fool,"  said  the  king.  "  He 
is  not  and  never  was  the  match  of  Tristram.  I 
am  glad  to  see  the  fellow  repaid  for  the  way  he 
served  me  this  morning." 


I 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OP  THE  TOURNAMENT.        75 

As  they  stood  thus  conversing,  Tristram  with- 
drew quietly  from  the  lists,  his  going  noted  only 
by  Isolde  and  Palamides,  who  kept  their  eyes  upon 
him.  He  rode  back  to  his  pavilions,  where  he 
found  Dinadan  still  asleep,  his  slumbers  not  broken 
by  all  the  uproar  of  the  tournament. 

"  As  I  am  a  living  man,  here  is  a  lusty  sleeper," 
cried  Tristram.  "  Wake,  Dinadan.  The  day  is 
half  spent  and  the  field  half  won,  and  here  you  are 
still  a-bed." 

At  this  Dinadan  sprang  hastily  up  and  rubbed 
his  eyes. 

"  I  dreamt  of  wars  and  jousts,"  he  said.  "  And, 
i'  faith,  I  like  that  way  the  best,  for  one  gets  all 
the  good  of  the  fight  and  is  safe  from  sore  limbs 
and  aching  bones.     But  what's  to  do  ?  " 

"  Get  on  your  harness  and  ride  with  me  to  the 
field.  You  will  find  something  there  to  waken 
you  up." 

Dinadan,  as  he  armed,  noted  Tristram's  bat- 
tered shield,  and  remarked, — 

"I  slept  both  well  and  wisely,  it  seems.  If  I 
had  been  there  I  must  have  followed  you,  from 
shame  if  not  from  courage.  And  by  the  looks  of 
your  shield  I  would  have  been  worse  battered  than 
I  was  yesterday.  Why  did  you  not  let  me  sleep 
out  the  balance  of  it,  friend  Tristram  ?  " 

"  A  truce  with  your  jests.  Come,  we  must  to 
the  field  again." 

"  How  now,  is  there  a  new  deal  in  the  game  ? 
Yesterday  you  did  but  dream;  to-day  you  seem 
awake." 

Meanwhile  Tristram  had  changed  his  armor,  and 


76       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

now  was  attired  all  in  black. 

"You  have  more  fight  in  you  than  you  had 
yesterday,  that  is  sure/'  said  Dinadan.  ^'  Did  I  stir 
up  your  sleeping  spirit  ?  '^ 

"  It  may  be  so/'  said  Tristram,  smiling.  "  Keep 
well  up  to  me,  and  I  shall  make  you  a  highway 
through  the  press.  If  you  see  me  overmatched, 
do  what  you  can  to  aid  me.'^ 

When  ready  they  took  their  horses  and  rode  back 
to  the  lists,  where  Isolde  and  Palamides  noted  their 
entrance.  When  the  Saracen  saw  that  Tristram 
was  disguised,  a  new  fancy  came  into  his  scheming 
brain.  Leaving  the  lists,  he  rode  to  where  a  knight 
sat  sorely  wounded  under  a  tree  outside.  Him 
he  prayed  for  an  exchange  of  armor,  saying  that 
his  own  was  too.  well  known  in  the  field,  and  that 
he  wished  for  a  disguise. 

"  That  is  very  true,"  said  the  knight,  as  he  recog- 
nized the  green  armor.  "  You  have  made  your 
array  somewhat  too  well  known.  You  are  welcome 
to  my  arms,  if  they  will  be  of  use  to  you.  They 
will  gain  more  credit  in  your  hands  than  they 
have  won  in  mine." 

Palamides  thereupon  exchanged  armor  with 
him,  and,  taking  his  shield,  which  shone  like  silver, 
rode  into  the  field.  He  now  joined  the  party  of 
King  Arthur,  and  rode  spitefully  against  Tristram, 
who  had  just  struck  down  three  knights.  They 
met  with  such  force  that  both  spears  splintered  to 
their  hands,  though  neither  lost  his  seat.  Then 
they  dashed  eagerly  together  with  drawn  swords 
and  fought  with  the  courage  and  fury  of  two  lions. 
But   Tristram   wondered  much   what   knight   this 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OP  THE  TOURNAMENT.        77 

was  that  faced  him  so  valiantly,  and  grew  angry 
as  he  felt  that  he  was  wasting  in  this  single  combat 
the  strength  he  wished  to  treasure  up  for  the  day's 
work. 

La  Belle  Isolde,  who  had  watched  Palamides 
from  her  window,  had  seen  him  change  his  armor 
with  the  wounded  knight.  And  when  his  treach- 
erous purpose  came  to  her  mind  she  wept  so  heartily 
and  was  so  deeply  disturbed  that  she  swooned  away. 

At  this  juncture  in  the  fray  Lancelot  rode  again 
into  the  field,  and  when  the  knights  of  Arthur's 
party  saw  him  the  cry  went  up,  "Return,  return, 
here  comes  Sir  Lancelot  du  Lake ! '' 

And  some  said  to  him,  "  Sir  Lancelot,  yonder 
knight  in  the  black  harness  is  your  man.  He  is 
the  best  of  qur  opponents,  and  has  nearly  over- 
come the  good  knight  with  the  silver  shield." 

At  this  Lancelot  rode  between  the  combatants, 
and  cried  to  Palamides, — 

"Let  me  have  this  battle;   you  need  repose." 

Palamides  knew  Lancelot,  and  readily  gave  way, 
hoping  through  his  mighty  aid  to  gain  revenge 
upon  his  rival.  Then  Lancelot  fell  upon  Tristram, 
and,  unknowing  who  he  was,  dealt  him  blows  that 
would  have  stunned  a  less  hardy  fighter.  Tris- 
tram returned  them  but  feebly,  for  he  knew  well 
with  whom  he  fought.  And  Isolde,  who  saw  it 
all,  was  half  out  of  her  mind  with  grief. 

Dinadan  now  told  Gareth  who  the  knight  in 
black  armor  was,  and  said,  "  Lancelot  will  get  the 
better  of  him,  for  one  is  weary  and  the  other  fresh, 
and  Tristram  is  not  fighting  with  his  old  vim. 
Let  us  to  his  aid." 


78       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

"  I  am  with  vou/^  said  Gareth.  "  Yonder  fellow 
with  the  silver  shield  is  waiting  to  fall  on  Tristram, 
if  he  can  to  advantage.  It  is  our  business  to  give 
our  friend  what  help  we  can.'^ 

Then  they  rode  in,  and  Gareth  struck  Lancelot 
a  sword-blow  that  made  his  head  swim,  while  Dina- 
dan  followed  with  a  spear-thrust  thlit  bore  horse 
and  man  together  to  the  earth. 

"Why  do  you  this?^^  cried  Tristram,  angrily. 
"It  is  not  a  knightly  act,  and  does  not  that  good 
knight  any  dishonor.  I  was  quite  his  match  with- 
out you." 

Then  Palamides  came  to  Lancelot's  aid,  and  a 
close  medley  of  fighting  began,  in  which  Dinadan 
was  unhorsed  and  Tristram  pulled  Palamides  from 
his  saddle,  and  fell  with  him.  Dinadan  now  sprang 
up  and  caught  Tristram's  horse  by  the  bridle,  calling 
out,  with  purpose  to  end  the  fight, — 

"  My  lord  Sir  Tristram,  take  your  horse." 

"  What  is  this  ?  "  cried  Lancelot.  "  WTiat  have 
I  done?  Sir  Tristram,  why  came  you  here  dis- 
guised? Surely  I  would  not  have  drawn  sword 
on  you,  had  I  known  you." 

"  Sir,"  said  Tristram,  "  this  is  not  the  first  honor 
you  have  done  me." 

Then  they  mounted  their  horses  again,  while 
the  people  on  one  side  gave  Lancelot  the  honor 
of  the  fray,  and  those  on  the  other  side  gave  it  to 
Tristram. 

"  The  honor  is  not  mine,"  said  Lancelot.  "  He 
has  been  longer  in  the  field,  and  has  smitten  down 
many  more  knights;  so  I  give  my  voice  for  Sir 
Tristram,  and  pray  to  all  my  lords  and  fellows  to 
do  the  same." 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OF  THE  TOURNAMENT.        79 

This  was  the  verdict  of  the  judges,  and  the  prize 
of  that  day^s  tourney  was  by  all  voted  to  the  noble 
Sir  Tristram. 

Then  the  trumpets  blew  to  lodging,  and  the 
knights  left  the  field,  while  Queen  Isolde  was  con- 
ducted to  her  pavilion.  But  her  heart  burned  hot 
with  wrath  against  Palamides,  all  whose  treachery 
she  had  seen.  As  Tristram  rode  forward  with 
Gareth  and  Dinadan,  Palamides  joined  them,  still 
disguised. 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Tristram,  "  you  are  not  of 
our  party,  and  your  company  is  not  welcome.  So 
begone.^^ 

"  Not  I,"  he  answered.  "  One  of  the  best  knights 
in  the  world  bade  me  keep  fellowship  with  you, 
and  till  he  relieve  me  from  that  service  I  must  obey 
him.'^ 

"  Ha,  Palamides,  I  know  you  now ! ''  said  Tris- 
tram. ^^But,  by  my  faith,  I  did  not  know  you  be- 
fore, for  I  deemed  you  a  worthy  knight  and  not  a 
traitor.  I  could  have  handled  you  well  enough, 
but  you  brought  Lancelot  to  your  aid  against  me." 

"  Are  you  my  lord.  Sir  Tristram  ?  "  said  Pala- 
mides, in  a  tone  of  surprise. 

'^  That  you  know,  well  enough." 

"  How  should  I  know  it  any  more  than  you  knew 
me?  I  deemed  you  the  king  of  Ireland,  for  you 
bear  his  arms.^' 

"  I  won  them  in  battle,  from  his  champion  Sir 
Marhaus,"  said  Tristram. 

"  Sir,"  answered  Palamides,  '^  I  fancied  you  had 
joined  Lancelot's  party,  and  that  caused  me  to  turn 
to  the  same  side." 


80       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  If  that  be  so,  I  forgive  you/'  said  Tristram. 

But  when  they  reached  the  pavilion  and  had  dis- 
armed and  washed,  and  were  come  to  table,  Isolde 
grew  red  with  wrath  on  seeing  Palamides. 

"  You  traitor  and  felon !  "  she  cried,  "  how  dare 
you  thrust  yourself  into  this  goodly  company  ?  You 
know  not  how  falsely  he  has  treated  you,  my  lord 
Tristram.  I  saw  it  all.  He  watched  you  when  you 
rode  to  your  tent  and  donned  the  black  armor. 
Then  he  changed  armor  with  a  wounded  knight  and 
rode  back  and  wilfully  changed  sides,  and  drew 
sword  upon  you.  I  saw  it  all,  my  lord,  and  I 
impeach  him  of  treason." 

"  Madam,''  said  Palamides,  calmly,  "  you  may 
say  what  you  will.  I  cannot  in  courtesy  deny  you. 
Yet  by  my  knighthood  I  declare  I  knew  not  Sir 
Tristram." 

I    will    take    your    excuse,"    said    Tristram, 

though  it  seems  a  lame  one.  You  spared  me  little 
in  the  field,  but  all  that  I  have  pardoned." 

At  this,  Isolde  held  down  her  head  in  despite 
and  said  no  more. 

While  they  were  still  at  table  two  knights  rode 
to  the  pavilions,  and  entered  in  full  armor. 

"  Fair  sirs,"  said  Tristram,  "  is  this  courtesy,  to 
come  upon  us  thus  armed  at  our  meal  ?  " 

"  We  come  with  no  ill  intent,"  said  one,  "  but  as 
your  friends,  Sir  Tristram." 

"  I  am  come,"  said  the  other,  *^  to  greet  you  as  a 
friend  and  comrade,  and  my  companion  is  eager 
to  see  and  welcome  La  Belle  Isolde." 

"  Then  remove  your  helms,  that  I  may  see  what 
guests  I  have." 


ii 


THE  SECOND  DAY  OP  THE  TOURNAMENT.   81 

''  That  we  do,  willingly/^ 

No  sooner  were  their  helmets  off  than  Tristram 
sprang  hastily  to  his  feet. 

"  Madam,  arise/'  he  cried ;  ^^  this  is  none  less 
than  my  lord  King  Arthur;  and  this  my  very  dear 
friend  Sir  Lancelot.^^ 

Then  the  king  and  queen  kissed,  and  Lancelot 
and  Tristram  warmly  embraced,  while  deep  joy 
filled  all  hearts  there.  At  the  request  of  Isolde  the 
visitors  removed  their  armor  and  joined  them  at 
their  meal. 

"  Many  is  the  day  that  I  have  longed  to  see  you," 
said  Arthur  to  Isolde,  "  for  much  praise  have  I 
heard  of  you,  and  not  without  warrant.  For  a 
nobler  match  for  beauty  and  valor  than  you  and 
Sir  Tristram  the  world  does  not  hold." 

"We  thank  you  heartily,"  replied  Tristram  and 
Isolde.  "  Such  praise  from  King  Arthur  is  the 
highest  honor  that  men's  lips  could  give." 

Then  they  talked  of  other  things,  but  mainly  of 
the  tournament. 

"Why  were  you  against  us?"  asked  Arthur. 
"  You  are  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table,  and  have 
fought  to-day  against  your  own." 

"  Here  is  Dinadan,  and  your  own  nephew  Ga- 
reth.  You  must  blame  them  for  that,"  said  Tris- 
tram, smiling. 

"  You  may  lay  all  the  blame  on  my  shoulders, 
if  Tristram  wishes  it,"  said  Gareth. 

"  Not  on  mine,  then,"  said  Dinadan.  "  Mine 
are  only  broad  enough  to  carry  my  own  sins.  It 
was  this  unhappy  Tristram  brought  us  to  the  tour- 
nament, and  I  owe  to  him  a  whole  body  full  of 

II-6 


82       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


aches  and  pains  as  it  is,  without  taking  any  of  his 
sins  in  my  sack,  to  boot/^ 

At  this  the  king  and  Lancelot  laughed  heartily, 
and  the  more  so  at  the  sour  grimace  with  which 
Dinadan  ended. 

"What  knight  was  he  with  the  shield  of  silver 
that  held  you  so  short  ?  ^^  asked  Arthur. 

"  Here  he  sits,"  said  Tristram. 

"  What !  was  it  Palamides  ? '' 

"  None  less  than  he,''  said  Isolde. 

"  That  was  not  a  courteous  action/' 

"  Sir,''  said  Palamides,  "  Tristram  was  so  dis- 
guised that  I  knew  him  not." 

"  That  may  well  be,"  said  Lancelot,  "  for  I  knew 
him  no  better." 

"  However  it  be,  we  are  friends  again,"  said 
Tristram,  "  and  I  hope  will  continue  so." 

And  so  the  evening  passed,  till  the  time  came 
for  Arthur  and  Lancelot  to  take  their  leave. 

That  night  Palamides  slept  not  for  the  pain 
and  envy  that  burned  in  his  heart.  But  when  his 
friends  entered  his  chamber  in  the  morning  they 
found  him  fast  asleep,  with  his  cheeks  stained  with 
tears. 

"  Say  nothing,"  said  Tristram.  "  The  poor  fel- 
low has  been  deeply  wounded  by  the  rebuke  that 
I  and  Isolde  gave  him.  Lay  no  heavier  load  upon 
his  heart." 


THE  WOES  OP  TWO  LOVERS.  83 


CHAPTEE  VII. 

THE   WOES   OF   TWO   LOVERS. 

Early  on  the  third  morning  of  the  tournament 
the  knights  of  Tristram's  party  were  up  and  armed, 
they  now  being  all  arrayed  in  red,  as  was  also 
Isolde  and  her  maidens.  And  rare  was  the  show 
they  made  as  they  rode  gayly  to  the  priory,  where 
they  left  Isolde  and  her  maidens  to  occupy  their 
proper  seats.  As  the  knights  turned  thence  towards 
the  field  they  heard  three  loud  bugle-blasts,  and  saw 
the  throng  of  armed  knights  press  eagerly  forward, 
while  already  from  the  listed  space  came  the  thun- 
der of  hoofs  and  the  cries  of  combatants. 

Into  the  field  they  rode,  Palamides  in  advance, 
and  such  havoc  did  he  make  in  the  opposing  ranks 
that  shouts  of  approval  went  up  from  all  the  seats. 
But  Tristram  now  rode  forward  at  the  full  speed 
of  his  great  war-horse,  hurled  Kay  the  seneschal 
from  his  saddle,  smote  down  three  other  knights 
with  the  same  spear,  and  then,  drawing  his  sword, 
laid  about  him  like  a  roused  giant. 

Quickly  changed  the  cry  from  Palamides.  "  0 
Tristram  !  0  Tristram !  ^^  shouted  the  throng  of 
spectators,  and  the  deeds  of  this  new  champion 
threw  those  of  the  former  victor  into  the  shade. 

Gareth  and  Dinaden  also  nobly  aided  the  two 
champions,  rousing  the  admiration  of  Arthur  and 
Lancelot  by  their  gallantry,  and  the  four  knightly 
comrades  soon  cleared  a  wide  space  in  the  ranks 
before  them. 


84       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  Come/'  said  Arthur,  "  we  must  to  the  rescue, 
or  our  side  will  be  driven  from  the  field  before  the 
day  is  an  hour  old.  See  how  the  others  crowd  in  on 
Tristram's  steps,  like  wolves  to  the  prey.'' 

Then  he  and  Lancelot  hastily  armed  and  sought 
the  field,  where  they  quickly  fought  their  way  into 
the  thickest  press  of  the  tumult.  Tristram,  not 
knowing  them,  rode  upon  them  and  thrust  King 
Arthur  from  his  horse,  and  when  Lancelot  rushed 
to  his  rescue  he  was  surrounded  with  such  an  eager 
host  that  he  was  pulled  from  his  saddle  to  the 
ground. 

Seeing  this,  the  kings  of  Ireland  and  Scotland, 
with  their  knights,  rushed  forward  to  take  Lance- 
lot and  Arthur  prisoners.  But  they  counted  with- 
out their  host,  for  the  dismounted  knights  laid  about 
them  like  angry  lions,  driving  back  all  who  came 
near  them.  Of  all  that  passed  in  that  hot  turmoil 
it  were  too  much  to  say.  Many  a  knight  there  did 
deeds  of  great  prowess,  and  Arthur  and  Lancelot 
being  mounted  again,  strewed  the  eari:h  with  fallen 
knights,  Lancelot  that  day  unhorsing  thirty  war- 
riors. Yet  the  other  side  held  so  firmly  together 
that,  with  all  their  ardent  labor,  Arthur  and  his 
party  were  overmatched. 

At  this  juncture,  Tristram  turned  to  his  com- 
panions and  said, — 

"  My  good  comrades,  T  begin  to  fancy  that  we  are 
to-day  on  the  wrong  side.  King  Arthur's  party  is 
overborne  more  by  numbers  than  valor,  for  I  must 
say  T  never  saw  so  few  men  do  so  well.  It  would 
be  a  shame  for  us,  who  are  Knights  of  the  Round 


THE  WOES  OP  TWO  LOVERS.  85 

Table,  to  see  our  lord  Arthur  and  our  good  com- 
rade Lancelot  dishonored.  I  am  in  the  humor  to 
change  sides,  and  help  our  king  and  liege  lord.'^ 

"  We  are  with  you  in  that,^^  cried  Gareth  and 
Dinadan.  "We  have  been  fighting  against  the 
grain  these  three  days.'^ 

"  Do  as  you  will,"  said  Palamides.  "  I  shall  not 
change  my  hand  in  the  midst  of  the  fray.'^ 

"  As  you  will,"  said  Tristram.  "  You  are  your 
own  master.  Speed  well  in  your  way,  and  we  will 
do  our  best  in  ours." 

Then  he,  Gareth,  and  Dinadan  drew  out  of  the 
press  and  rode  round  to  Arthur's  side,  where  they 
lent  such  noble  aid  that  the  fortune  of  the  field 
quickly  changed,  and  the  opposing  party  began  to 
give  ground.  As  for  Palamides,  King  Arthur 
struck  him  so  fierce  a  blow  that  he  was  hurled  from 
his  horse,  while  Tristram  and  Lancelot  unhorsed 
all  before  them.  Such  havoc  did  they  make,  indeed, 
that  the  party  of  the  opposing  kings  was  soon  in 
full  fiight  from  the  field,  bearing  Palamides,  who 
wept  for  rage  and  grief,  with  them. 

Then  rarely  sounded  the  trumpets,  and  loudly 
shouted  the  spectators,  while  the  names  of  Tris- 
tram and  Lancelot  were  in  every  mouth,  some  voting 
one  the  prize,  some  the  other.  But  neither  of  these 
good  comrades  would  have  it  alone,  so  that  in  the 
end  it  was  divided  between  them. 

When  evening  drew  near,  and  the  knights  had 
all  withdrawn  to  their  pavilions,  Palamides  rode 
up  to  that  of  Sir  Tristram,  in  company  with  the 
kings  of  Wales  and  Scotland.  Here  he  drew  up 
his  horse,  praying  his  companions  to  wait  a  while 


86       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

while  he  spoke  to  the  knight  within.  Then  he  cried 
loudly  at  the  entrance, — 

"  Where  are  you,  Tristram  of  Lyonesse  ?  '^ 

"  Is  that  you,  Palamides  ?  "  answered  the  knight. 
"  Will  you  not  dismount  and  join  us  ?  '^ 

"  I  seek  better  company,  sir  traitor,^'  cried  Pala- 
mides, in  tones  that  trembled  with  fury.  "  I  hate 
you  now  as  much  as  I  once  esteemed  you,  and  bear 
this  in  mind,  if  it  were  daylight  as  it  is  night, 
I  would  slay  you  with  my  own  hands.  You  shall 
die  yet  for  this  day's  deeds.'' 

"  You  blame  me  wrongly,  Palamides,"  said  Tris- 
tram, mildly.  *^  If  you  had  done  as  I  advised  you 
would  have  won  honor  instead  of  disgrace.  Why 
come  you  here  seeking  to  lay  your  own  fault  on 
me?  Since  you  give  me  such  broad  warning,  I 
shall  be  well  on  my  guard  against  you." 

"  Well  you  may,  sir  dastard,  for  I  love  you  not," 
and,  fiercely  spurring  his  horse,  the  hot-blooded 
Saracen  joined  his  kingly  companions. 

WTien  the  next  day  dawned  the  festive  array 
which  had  long  spread  bustle  and  splendor  round 
Lonazep  broke  up,  and  knights  and  ladies  rode 
ofE  in  all  directions  through  the  land,  to  carry  far 
and  wide  the  story  of  the  wondrous  deeds  of  valor 
that  had  been  performed  at  the  great  tournament. 
Tristram  and  his  two  comrades,  with  Hector  de 
Maris  and  Bleoberis,  escorted  La  Belle  Isolde  to 
Joyous  Gard,  where  for  seven  days  the  guests  were 
nobly  entertained,  with  all  the  sports  and  mirth- 
fulness  that  could  be  devised.  King  Arthur  and 
his  knights  drew  back  to  Camelot,  and  Palamides 
rode  onward  with  the  two  kings,  his  heart  torn  with 


THE  WOES  OF  TWO  LOVERS.  87 

mingled  sorrow  and  despair.  Not  alone  was  he 
in  grief  for  his  disgrace  in  the  field,  under  the 
eyes  of  her  he  loved,  but  was  full  as  sorrowful 
for  the  hot  words  he  had  spoken  in  his  wrath  to 
Tristram,  who  had  been  so  kind  and  gentle  to  him 
that  his  heart  was  torn  to  think  how  falsely  and 
treacherously  he  had  requited  him. 

His  kingly  companions  would  have  had  him  stay 
with  them,  but  he  could  not  be  persuaded,  so  the 
king  of  Ireland  presented  him  with  a  noble  courser, 
and  the  king  of  Scotland  with  valuable  gifts,  and 
he  rode  his  way,  still  plunged  in  a  grief  that  was 
almost  despair.  Noon  brought  him  to  a  forest 
fountain,  beside  which  lay  a  wounded  knight,  who 
sighed  so  mournfully  that  the  very  leaves  on  the 
trees  seemed  to  sigh  in  echo. 

"  Why  mourn  you  so,  fair  knight  ?  "  asked  Pala- 
mides,  mildly.  "  Or  if  you  care  not  to  tell,  at  least 
let  me  lie  beside  you  and  join  my  moans  to  yours, 
for  I  dare  say  I  have  a  hundredfold  deeper  cause 
for  grief,  and  we  may  ease  our  hearts  by  mutual 
complaints." 

"  What  is  your  name,  gentle  sir  ?  '^ 

"  Such  as  I  am,  for  better  or  worse,  men  call 
me  Palamides,  son  to  King  Astlabor." 

"  Noble  sir,  it  solaces  me  much  to  meet  you.  I 
am  Epinegris,  son  to  the  king  of  Northumberland. 
Now  repose  you  on  this  mossy  bank  and  let  us  tell 
our  woes,  and  so  ease  somewhat  our  sad  hearts." 

Then  Palamides  dismounted  and  laid  himself  be- 
side the  wounded  knight. 

"This  is  my  source  of  woe,"  he  said.  "  I  love 
the  fairest  queen  that  ever  drew  breath.  La  Belle 
Isolde,  CornwalFs  queen." 


88       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 


"That  is  sheer  folly/'  said  Epinegris,  "for  she 
loves  none  but  Tristram  de  Lyonesse/' 

"  Know  I  it  not  ?  I  have  been  in  their  company 
this  month,  daily  reaping  sorrow.  And  now  I 
have  lost  the  fellowship  of  Tristram  and  the  love 
of  Isolde  forever,  through  my  envy  and  jealousy, 
and  never  more  shall  a  glad  thought  enter  my 
sorrowful  heart/^ 

"  Did  she  ever  show  you  signs  of  love  ?  " 

"Never.  She  hated  me,  I  fear.  And  the  last 
day  we  met  she  gave  me  such  a  rebuke  that  I  will 
never  recover  from  it: — ^yet  well  I  deserved  it  by 
my  unknightly  acts.  Many  great  deeds  have  I 
done  for  her  love,  yet  never  shall  I  win  a  smile 
from  her  eves.'^ 

"  Deep  is  your  grief,  indeed,'^  said  Epinegris, 
with  a  heart-breaking  sigh,  "yet  it  is  but  a  jest 
to  my  sorrow.  For  my  lady  loved  me,  and  I  won 
her  with  my  hands.  But,  alas!  this  day  I  have 
lost  her  arid  am  left  here  to  moan.  I  took  her 
from  an  earl  and  two  knights  that  were  with  her; 
but  as  we  sat  here  this  day,  telling  each  other  of 
our  loves,  there  came  an  errant  knight,  named 
Helior  de  Preuse,  and  challenged  me  to  fight  for  my 
lady.  You  see  what  followed.  He  wounded  me 
so  that  he  left  me  for  dead  and  took  my  lady  with 
him.  So  my  sorrow  is  deepest,  for  T  have  rejoiced 
in  my  love,  and  you  never  have.  To  have  and  lose 
is  far  worse  than  never  to  own.'' 

"That  is  true,"  said  Palamides.  "But  yet  I 
have  the  deepest  cause  for  grief,  for  your  love  is 
not  hopeless,  like  mine.  And  I  shall  prove  this, 
for  if  I  can  find  this  Helior  he  shall  be  made  to 


THE  WOES  OP  TWO  LOVERS.  89 

yield  you  your  lady,  unless  he  prove'  able  to  deal 
with  me  as  he  has  with  you/^ 

Then  he  helped  Epinegris  on  his  horse  and  led 
him  to  a  hermitage  near  by,  where  he  left  him 
under  the  care  of  the  holy  hermit.  Here  Pala- 
mides  stayed  not  long,  but  walked  out  under  the 
shadow  of  the  green  leaves,  to  be  a  while  alone 
with  his  woes.  But  not  far  had  he  gone  before 
he  saw  near  him  a  knight,  who  bore  a  shield  that 
he  had  seen  Hector  de  Maris  wear.  With  him  were 
ten  other  knights,  who  sheltered  themselves  from 
the  noontide  heat  under  the  green  leaves. 

As  they  stood  there  another  knight  came  by 
whose  shield  was  green,  with  a  white  lion  in  its 
midst,  and  who  led  a  lady  on  a  palfrey.  As  he 
came  up,  the  knight  who  bore  Sir  Hector's  shield 
rode  fiercely  after  him,  and  bade  him  turn  and 
defend  his  lady. 

"  That  T  must,  in  knightly  duty,''  cried  the  other. 

Then  the  two  knights  rode  together  with  such 
might  that  horses  and  men  together  were  hurled 
to  the  earth.  Drawing  their  swords,  they  now 
fought  sturdily  for  the  space  of  an  hour.  In  the 
end  the  knight  of  the  white  lion  was  stricken  to 
the  earth  and  forced  to  beg  for  his  life. 

Palamides  stood  under  the  leaves,  watching  this 
combat  till  it  came  to  its  end.  Then  he  went  to 
the  lady,  whom  he  believed  to  be  her  whom  he 
had  promised  to  rescue.  Taking  her  gently  by  the 
hand,  he  asked  her  if  she  knew  a  knight  named 
Epinegris. 

"  Alas !  that  ever  I  did,"  she  sadly  replied. 
"  For  his  sake  I  have  lost  my  liberty,  and  for  mine 
he  has  lost  his  life." 


90       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  Not  so  badly  as  that/'  said  Palamides.  "  He 
is  at  yonder  hermitage.     I  will  take  you  to  him/^ 

"  Then  he  lives !  '^  she  cried  in  joy.  "  You  fill 
my  heart  with  gladness.'^ 

But  not  many  steps  had  Palamides  led  her  before 
the  victorious  knight  cried  out  in  tones  of  fierce 
anger, — 

"  Loose  the  lady,  sirrah !  Whither  take  you 
her?^^ 

"Whither  I  will?^'    answered  Palamides. 

"  You  speak  largely,  sir  knave,'^  cried  the  knight. 
"Do  you  fancy  you  can  rob  me  of  my  prize  so 
lightly?  Think  it  not,  sirrah;  were  you  as  good 
a  knight  as  Lancelot  or  Tristram  or  Palamides, 
you  should  not  have  that  lady  without  winning 
her  at  a  dearer  rate  than  I  did.^^ 

"If  fight  it  is,  I  am  ready  for  you,"  answered 
Palamides.  "  I  promised  to  bring  this  lady  to  her 
lover  from  whom  yonder  knight  stole  her,  and  it 
will  need  more  swords  than  one  to  make  me  break 
my  word." 

"  We  shall  see  if  that  be  so,"  said  the  other, 
attacking  him  so  fiercely  that  Palamides  had  much 
ado  to  protect  himself.  They  fought  for  so  long 
a  time  that  Palamides  marvelled  much  who  this 
knight  could  be  that  withstood  him  so  sturdily 
after  his  late  hard  battle. 

"  Knight,"  he  said,  at  length,  "  you  fight  like 
a  hero.     I  would  know  your  name." 

"  You  shall  have  it  for  yours  in  return." 

"  I  agree  to  that." 

"Then,  sir,  my  name  is  Safere.  I  am  son  of 
King  Astlobar,  and  brother  to  Palamides  and  Seg- 
warides." 


THE  WOES  OF  TWO  LOVERS.  91 


"  Then  heaven  defend  me  for  having  fought  you, 
for  I  am  your  brother  Palamides/^ 

At  these  words  Safere  fell  upon  his  knees  and 
begged  his  brother's  pardon ;  and  then  they  unlaced 
their  helms  and  kissed  each  other  with  tears  of  joy. 

As  they  stood  thus,  Epinegris  advanced  towards 
them,  for  he  had  heard  the  sounds  of  fighting,  and, 
wounded  as  he  was,  he  came  to  help  Palamides  if 
he  should  stand  in  need. 

Palamides,  seeing  him  approach,  took  the  lady 
by  the  hand  and  led  her  to  him,  and  they  embraced 
so  tenderlv  that  all  hearts  there  were  touched. 

"  Fair  knight  and  lady,"  said  Safere,  "  it  would 
be  a  cruel  pity  to  part  you,  and  I  pray  heaven  to 
send  you  joy  of  each  other.'' 

"  You  have  my  sincere  thanks,"  said  Epinegris. 
"  And  deeper  thanks  has  Sir  Palamides  for  what 
he  has  done  for  me  this  day.  My  castle  is  near  by ; 
will  you  not  ride  there  with  me  as  a  safeguard  ?  " 

"  That  we  gladly  will,"  they  said,  and  when 
Epinegris  had  got  his  horse  they  rode  with  him 
and  the  lady  to  the  castle,  where  they  were  nobly 
received  and  treated  with  the  highest  honor.  They 
had  such  good  cheer  and  such  enjoyment  as  they  had 
rarely  before  known.  And  never  burned  the  flame 
of  love  more  warmly  than  that  between  Epinegris 
and  his  rescued  lady. 


92       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


THE   RIVALRY   OF  TRISTRAM   AND   PALAMIDES. 


I 


When  morning  again  dawned  over  the  forest 
and  the  smiling  fields  that  surrounded  the  castle 
of  Epinegris,  the  two  brothers  rode  out,  taking 
with  them  the  blessings  and  prayers  for  good  for- 
tune of  those  they  left  behind.  But  had  they  known 
into  what  deadly  peril  they  ventured  they  would 
not  for  days  have  left  those  hospitable  gates. 

For  they  rode  on  hour  by  hour,  until  afternoon 
came,  and  then  found  themselves  in  front  of  a 
noble  manor-house  from  which  came  to  their  ears 
doleful  sounds  of  woe  and  lamentation. 

"What  means  this  woful  noise?  Shall  we  enter 
and  see?^'   said  Safere. 

"  Willingly,^'  answered  Palamides. 

Leaving  their  horses  at  the  gates,  they  entered 
the  court-yard,  where  they  saw  an  old  man  trem- 
blingly fumbling  his  beads.  But  when  they  came 
within  tbe  hall  they  beheld  many  men  weeping 
and  lamenting. 

"Fair  sirs,  why  make  you  such  a  moaning?^' 
asked  Palamides. 

"  We  weep  for  our  lord,  who  is  slain,"  they  dole- 
fully replied. 

But  one  of  the  knights  observed  the  new-comers 
closely,  and  said  secretly  to  his  fellows, — 

"  Know  you  not  this  man  ?  Fortune  has  thrown 
into  our  hands  the  knight  who  slew  our  lord  at 
Lonazep.  That  tall  fellow  is  Palamides.  Let  him 
not  go  as  easily  as  he  came.^' 


THE  RIVALRY  OP  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    93 

Hearing  this,  most  of  them  quietly  withdrew 
and  armed  themselves,  and  then  came  suddenly 
upon  their  visitors  to  the  number  of  threescore, 
crying,— 

"  Defend  yourself,  if  you  can.  Sir  Palamideis. 
We  know  you  for  the  murderer  of  our  lord,  and 
it  is  our  duty  to  revenge  him.  Die  you  shall, 
though  you  had  the  might  of  a  giant/^ 

Palamides  and  his  brother,  finding  themselves 
in  this  desperate  strait,  set  themselves  back  to 
back  in  the  midst  of  their  assailants,  and  fought 
like  very  giants,  keeping  their  ground  for  two 
hours,  though  they  were  attacked  by  twenty  knights 
and  forty  gentlemen  and  yeomen.  But  strength 
cannot  hold  out  forever  against  odds,  and  at  the 
end  they  were  forced  to  yield,  and  were  locked  up 
in  a  strong  prison. 

Within  three  days  thereafter  a  court  of  twelve 
knights  sat  upon  the  charge  against  them,  and 
found  Sir  Palamides  guilty  of  their  lord's  death. 

Sir  Safere,  who  was  adjudged  not  guilty,  was 
given  his  liberty,  and  bidden  to  depart  from  tho 
castle.  He  parted  with  his  brother  in  the  deepest 
woe. 

"  Dear  brother,  grieve  not  so  greatly,^'  said  Pala- 
mides. "  If  die  I  must,  I  shall  meet  death 
bravely.  But  had  I  dreamed  of  such  a  doom  as  this, 
they  should  never  have  taken  me  alive.'* 

Then  Safere  departed  in  untold  sorrow,  though 
not  without  hope  of  rescue  if  he  could  raise  a  force 
to  storm  the  castle.  This  he  had  no  chance  to  do, 
for  on  the  next  morning  Palamides  was  sent  under 
an  escort  of  twelve  knights  to  the  father  of  the 


94       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

dead  knight,  who  dwelt  in  a  strong  castle  by  the 
seaside,  named  Pelownes,  where  it  had  been  decided 
that  the  sentence  should  be  put  into  execution. 

Palamides  was  placed  on  a  sorry  old  steed  with 
his  feet  bound  beneath  it,  and,  surrounded  by  the 
guard  of  twelve  armed  knights,  was  taken  towards 
the  place  of  death. 

But  through  the  favor  of  fortune  their  route  lay 
by  the  castle  of  Joyous  Gard,  and  here  they  were 
seen  by  one  who  knew  Palamides,  and  who  asked 
him  whither  he  was  borne. 

"  To  my  death,"  he  answered,  "  for  the  slaying 
,ot  a  knight  at  the  tournament.  Had  I  not  left 
Sir  Tristram  this  would  not  have  happened  to  me. 
I  pray  you,  recommended  me  to  your  lord  and  to 
my  lady  Isolde,  and  beg  them  to  forgive  me  my 
trespasses  against  them.  And  also  to  my  lord  King 
Arthur,  and  to  all  my  fellows  of  the  Round  Table." 

When  the  yeoman  heard  this  he  rode  in  all  haste 
to  Joyous  Gard,  where  he  told  Tristram  of  what  he 
had  seen  and  heard. 

"  To  his  death,  you  say  ?  "  cried  Tristram.  "And 
for  an  accident  of  the  tournament?  Why,  T  and 
twenty  others  might  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 
I  have  reason  to  be  angry  with  Palamides,  but  he 
shall  not  die  the  death  of  a  dog  if  I  can  rescue  him." 

This  said,  he  armed  in  all  haste,  and  taking  two 
squires  with  him,  he  rode  at  a  fast  gallop  towards 
the  castle  of  Pclownes,  hoping  to  overtake  the 
party  before  they  could  pass  its  gates. 

But  fortune  had  decreed  that  the  prisoner  should 
be  otherwise  rescued.  For  as  the  guard  of  knights 
rode  on  their  way  they  passed  by  a  well  where 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    95 

Lancelot  had  alighted  to  drink  of  the  refreshing 
waters. 

When  he  saw  the  cavalcade  approach  he  put  on 
his  helmet  and  stood  watching  them  as  they  passed. 
But  his  heart  swelled  with  anger  when  he  saw  Pala- 
mides  disarmed  and  bound  in  their  midst,  and 
seemingly  led  to  his  death. 

"  What  means  this  ?  "  he  cried.  "  What  has  this 
knight  done  that  deserves  a  shameful  death? 
Whatever  it  be,  I  cannot  suffer  him  to  be  foully 
dealt  with.'' 

Then  he  mounted  and  rode  after  the  twelve 
knights,  soon  overtaking  them. 

"  Sir  knights,''  he  said,  "  whither  take  you  that 
gentleman?  To  ride  thus  bound  is  not  befitting 
for  a  man  of  his  metal." 

At  this  the  guard  of  knights  turned  their  horses 
and  faced  Lancelot. 

"We  counsel  you  not  to  meddle  with  us,"  they 
said,  sternly.  "  This  man  has  deserved  death,  and 
to  death  he  is  adjudged." 

"  I  tell  you,  sirs,  it  shall  not  be.  He  is  too  good 
a  knight  to  die  a  shameful  death.  Defend  your- 
selves, then,  for  I  will  try  my  one  hand  against 
your  twelve,  and  rescue  him  or  die  in  the  effort." 

The  knights  of  the  guard  now  put  their  spears 
in  rest,  and  Lancelot  rode  upon  them  with  such 
fury  that  the  foremost  and  three  of  those  behind 
him  were  hurled  to  the  ground  before  his  spear 
broke.  Then  he  drew  his  sword  and  laid  about 
him  so  shrewdly  that  in  a  little  time  the  whole 
twelve  of  them  were  stretched  upon  the  earth,  most 
of  them  being  sorely  wounded.    Lancelot  now  cut 


96       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

the  bonds  of  Palamidcs,  mounted  him  upon  the 
best  of  their  horses,  and  rode  back  with  him  towards 
Joyous  Gard. 

As  thev  went  forward  thev  saw  Sir  Tristram 
approaching.  Lancelot  knew  him  at  sight,  but  was 
himself  unknown,  because  he  bore  a  golden  shield 
which  neither  Tristram  nor  Palamides  recognized. 
lie  therefore  mystified  them  for  a  time,  and  de- 
clined to  enter  Joyous  Gard  on  the  plea  that  he  had 
other  pressing  business  on  hand.  But  when 
strongly  entreated,  he  at  length  consented,  and 
entered  the  castle  with  them. 

Great  was  their  surprise  and  joy  when  he  had 
unhelmed,  to  find  that  thev  had  their  host  for 
guest.  Tristram  took  him  in  his  arms,  and  so  did 
Isolde,  while  Palamides  kneeled  before  him  and 
thanked  him  for  his  life.  When  Lancelot  saw  this 
he  took  him  bv  the  hand  and  made  him  rise. 

"  Good  sirs,''  he  said,  "  could  I,  or  any  knight 
of  worship  in  this  land,  hesitate  to  rescue  from  an. 
ignoble  death  such  a  knight  as  Palamides?  Had 
there  been  fifty  instead  of  twelve,  I  fear  I  should 
have  braved  them  all." 

Much  joy  was  there  in  Joyous  Gard  at  the  visit 
of  the  lord  of  the  castle,  but  Lancelot  staved  there 
but  four  days.  Palamides,  however,  remained  for 
two  months  and  more,  his  love  and  grief  growing 
deeper,  till  he  faded  away  to  a  shadow  of  himself. 

One  dav,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  he  wandered 
far  into  the  neighboring  forest,  and  here  by  chance 
saw  the  reflection  of  his  face  in  a  clear  pool.  The 
wasted  visage  disturbed  and  aifrighted  him. 

**What   does   this   mean?''    he  asked   himself. 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    97 


c< 


Am  I,  who  was  called  one  of  the  handsomest 
knights  in  the  world,  wasted  to  such  a  frightful 
figure?  I  must  leave  this  life,  for  it  is  idle  to 
grieve  myself  to  death  for  that  which  I  can  never 
possess." 

Then  he  threw  himself  beside  the  well,  and  from 
the  fulness  of  his  heart  began  to  make  a  song  about 
La  Belle  Isolde  and  himself,  a  rhyme  made  up  of 
music,  love,  and  grief. 

As  chance  would  have  it,  Tristram  had  ridden 
into  the  forest  that  day  in  chase  of  the  hart.  And 
as  he  rode  up  and  down  under  the  green  leaves  the 
summer  air  brought  to  his  ears  the  sound  of  a 
voice  singing  loud  and  clear.  He  rode  softly 
towards  the  sound,  for  he  deemed  that  some  knight- 
errant  lay  there  solacing  himself  with  song. 

When  he  came  nigh  he  tied  his  horse  to  a  tree 
and  advanced  on  foot.  Then  he  became  aware  that 
the  singer  was  his  guest  Palamides,  and  that  his 
song  was  about  La  Belle  Isolde,  a  doleful  and 
piteous,  yet  marvellously  well-made  song,  which 
the  singer  sang  loudly  and  in  a  clear  voice.  Tris- 
tram stood  listening  till  he  had  heard  it  from 
beginning  to  end.  But  at  the  last  his  anger  grew 
so  high  that  he  needed  to  restrain  himself  from 
slaying  the  singer  where  he  lay. 

Remembering  that  Palamides  was  unarmed,  he 
resisted  this  impulse,  and  advanced  slowly  towards 
him. 

"  Sir  Palamides,''  he  said,  in  a  gentle  voice,  "  I 
have  heard  your  song,  and  learned  your  treason 
to  your  host.  If  it  were  not  for  the  shame  of  an 
unknightly  act  I  would  deal  you  here  the  meed 

II-7 


98       TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

you  have  earned.  How  will  you  acquit  yourself  of 
treachery  ?  ^* 

"  Thus  will  I/^  said  Palamides,  springing  to  his 
feet  in  his  surprise.  "  As  for  Queen  Isolde,  you 
may  know  well  that  I  love  her  above  all  other 
ladies  in  the  world.  I  loved  her  before  you  ever  saw 
her,  as  you  know,  and  have  never  ceased  nor  shall 
ever  cease  to  love  her.  What  honor  I  have  won 
is  due  for  the  most  part  to  my  love  of  her.  Yet 
never  for  a  moment  has  she  returned  my  love,  and 
I  have  been  her  knight  without  guerdon.  There- 
fore I  dread  not  death,  for  I  had  as  lief  die  as  live." 
"Well  have  you  uttered  your  treason,"  said 
Tristram. 

"  No  treason  is  it,"  said  Palamides.  "  Love  is 
free  to  all  men,  and  I  have  a  right  to  love  any 
lady  I  will.  If  she  return  it  not,  no  man  is  harmed. 
Such  wrong  as  is  done  I  have  suffered,  not  you, 
for  your  love  is  returned  and  mine  has  brought 
me  but  pain.  Yet  I  shall  continue  to  love  La 
Belle  Isolde  to  the  end  of  my  days  as  deeply  as 
you  can." 

That  there  was  reason  in  these  words  Tristram 
could  not  but  have  seen,  had  not  anger  blinded 
his  wisdom. 

"  None  shall  love  my  lady  but  myself,"  he  cried, 
in  passion.  "  And  for  what  you  have  said  I  chal- 
lenge you  to  battle  to  the  uttermost." 

"  I  can  never  fight  in  a  better  quarrel,"  said 
Palamides.  "  And  if  you  slav  me  I  can  never  die 
by  a  nobler  hand.  Since  I  cannot  hope  for  favor 
from  La  Belle  Isolde,  I  have  as  good  will  to  die  as 
to  live." 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    99 

"  Then  set  a  day  in  which  we  shall  do  battle  in 
this  eause.'^ 

"  Let  it  be  fifteen  days  hence.  And  let  the  place 
be  in  the  meadow  under  Joyous  Gard/' 

"  Why  so  long  a  time  ?  ^^  demanded  Tristram. 
"  To-morrow  will  suit  me  better.^^ 

"  It  is  because  I  am  meagre  and  weak,  and  have 
fallen  away  to  a  shadow  through  hopeless  love. 
I  must  rest  until  I  get  my  strength  again  before  I 
can  face  so  doughty  a  knight.^* 

"  So  let  it  be,  then/'  said  Tristram.  "  Yet  once 
before  you  broke  a  promise  to  meet  me  in  battle 
at  the  grave  near  Camelot." 

*^  What  could  I  do  ?  ^'  rejoined  Palamides.  ^^  I 
was  in  prison,  and  could  not  keep  my  word.^^ 

"If  you  had  done  so,  there  would  have  been  no 
need  of  a  fight  now,"  said  Tristram,  as  he  strode 
haughtily  away. 

Then  Palamides  took  his  horse  and  rode  to 
Arthur's  court,  where  he  did  his  utmost  to  rest 
and  regain  strength.  When  the  appointed  time 
approached  he  returned,  attended  by  four  knights 
and  four  sergeant-at-arms. 

Meanwhile  Tristram  spent  his  time  at  the  chase. 
And  by  evil  fortune,  about  three  days  before  the 
time  of  battle,  a  wild  arrow  shot  by  an  archer  at 
a  hart  struck  him  in  the  thigh  and  wounded  him 
so  deeply  that  he  could  scarcely  return  to  Joyous 
Gard. 

Great  was  his  heaviness  of  heart,  and  neither 
man  nor  woman  could  bring  him  cheer,  for  it  was 
now  impossible  to  keep  his  word  with  his  rival; 
and  his  heart  grew  full  of  the  fancy  that  Pala- 


100    TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

mides  himself  had  shot  that  arrow,  so  as  to  pre- 
vent him  doing  battle  on  the  appointed  day.  But 
this  no  knight  about  Tristram  would  believe. 

When  the  fifteenth  day  came  Palamides  ap- 
peared at  the  place  fixed,  with  the  knights  and 
sergeants  whom  he  had  brought  with  him  to  bear 
record  of  the  battle.  One  sergeant  bore  his  helm, 
a  second  his  spear,  and  a  third  his  shield.  And 
for  two  hours  he  rested  in  the  field,  awaiting  the 
approach  of  his  antagonist. 

Then,  seeing  that  Tristram  failed  to  come,  he 
sent  a  squire  to  Joyous  Gard  to  remind  him  of  his 
challenge.  When  Tristram  heard  of  this  message 
he  had  the  squire  brought  to  his  chamber,  and 
showed  him  his  wound. 

"  Tell  Sir  Palamides,'^  he  said,  "  that  were  I  able 
to  come  he  would  not  need  to  send  for  me,  and 
that  I  had  rather  be  whole  to-day  than  have  all 
King  Arthur's  gold.  Tell  him,  moreover,  that  as 
soon  as  I  am  able  I  shall  seek  him  throughout  the 
land,  as  I  am  a  true  knight;  and  when  I  find  him 
he  shall  have  his  fill  of  battle.'' 

This  message  the  squire  brought  to  his  master, 
who  heard  it  with  much  secret  satisfaction. 

"  I  would  have  had  hard  handling  of  him,  and 
very  likely  have  been  vanquished/'  he  said,  "  for 
he  has  not  his  equal  in  battle,  unless  it  be  Sir 
Lancelot.  So  I  am  well  content  to  give  up  the 
fight." 

A  month  passed  before  Tristram  was  well.  Then 
he  took  his  horse  and  rode  from  country  to  country 
in  search  of  Palamides,  having  many  strange  ad- 
ventures by  the  way,  but  nowhere  could  he  meet 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.     101 

or  hear  of  his  rival  in  love.  But  during  his  search 
Tristram  did  so  many  valiant  deeds  that  his  fame 
for  the  time  quite  overtopped  that  of  Lancelot,  so 
much  so  that  Lancelot's  kinsmen  in  their  anger 
would  have  waylaid  and  slain  the  valiant  warrior. 

For  this  jealousy  Lancelot  sternly  rebuked  them, 
saying,— 

"  Bear  it  well  in  mind,  that  if  any  of  you  does 
any  harm  to  Sir  Tristram,  that  man  shall  I  slay 
with  my  own  hands.  To  murder  a  man  like  this 
for  his  noble  deeds!  Out  upon  such  base  designs! 
Far  rather  should  you  worship  him  for  his  valor 
and  royal  prowess.** 

And  so  time  went  on  for  the  space  of  two  years, 
during  which  Tristram  sought  in  vain  for  his 
rival. 

At  the  end  of  that  time  he  came  home  to  Joyous 
Gard  from  one  of  his  journeys  of  adventure,  and 
there  was  told  by  La  Belle  Isolde  of  a  great  feast 
to  be  held  at  the  court  on  the  coming  day  of  Pente- 
cost, which  she  counselled  him  strongly  to  attend. 

Much  debate  passed  between  him  and  his  lady- 
love on  this  subject,  for  he  was  loth  to  go  without 
her,  and  she  cared  not  to  go.  In  the  end  he  de- 
clared that  he  would  obey  her  wishes,  but  would 
ride  thither  unarmed,  save  for  his  sword  and  spear. 

This  he  did,  and  though  she  in  her  loving  anxiety 
sent  after  him  four  knights,  he  sent  them  back 
within  half  a  mile.  Yet  he  soon  had  reason  to 
repent  his  rashness.  For  hardly  had  he  gone  a 
mile  farther  when  he  came  upon  a  wounded  knight, 
who  told  him  he  owed  his  hurt  to  Sir  Palamides. 
What  to  do  now,  Tristram  knew  not.     Near  by  was 


102     TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

the  foe  he  had  so  long  sought  in  vain,  and  he  was 
unarmed.  Should  he  ride  back  for  his  armor,  or 
go  on  as  he  was  ? 

While  he  stood  thinking,  Palamides  appeared, 
and  knew  him  at  sight. 

"  Well  met,  Sir  Tristram ! ''  he  cried.  "  I  have 
heard  much  of  your  search  for  me.  You  have  found 
me  now,  and  we  shall  not  part  till  we  have  settled 
our  old  scores." 

"As  for  that,"  answered  Tristram,  "no  Chris- 
tian can  boast  that  I  ever  fled  from  him,  nor  shall 
a  Saracen  make  this  boast,  even  if  I  be  unarmed." 

Then  he  put  his  horse  to  the  gallop  and  rode  on 
Palamides  with  such  fury  that  his  spear  broke 
into  a  hundred  pieces.  Throwing  it  away,  he  drew 
his  sword  and  struck  Palamides  six  great  strokes 
upon  the  helm,  while  the  Saracen  stood  unresisting, 
and  wondering  at  the  folly  and  madness  of  his  foe. 
Then  Tristram  cried  out  in  fury, — 

"  Coward  knight,  why  stand  you  thus  idly  ?  You 
dare  not  do  battle  with  me,  for  doubt  not  but  I  can 
endure  all  your  strength  and  malice." 

"  You  know  well,  Sir  Tristram,"  answered  Pala- 
mides, "that  I  cannot  in  honor  strike  at  your  un- 
armed head.  If  I  should  slay  you  thus,  shame 
would  be  my  lot.  As  for  your  valor  and  hardiness, 
those  I  shall  never  question." 

"  You  speak  well,"  answered  Tristram. 

"  Tell  me  this,"  continued  Palamides.  "  Were 
I  here  naked  of  armor,  and  you  full  armed  as  I 
am,  what  would  you  do  ?  " 

"  I  shall  not  answer  from  fear,  but  from  truth- 
fulness. I  would  bid  you  depart,  as  I  could  not 
have  ado  with  you.' 


?> 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    103 


"  No  more  can  I  with  you/^  said  Palamides, 
^'  therefore  ride  on  your  way/' 

"  I  shall  ride  or  abide  as  I  may  choose/'  said 
Tristram.  "Rut  tell  me  this,  Palamides:  how 
is  it  that  so  good  a  knight  as  you  refuses  to  be 
christened,  as  your  brothers  have  long  been  ? '' 

"  I  cannot  become  a  Christian  till  a  vow  I  made 
years  ago  is  fulfilled.  I  believe  fully  in  Jesus 
Christ  and  His  mild  mother  Mary;  but  there  is 
one  battle  yet  I  must  fight,  and  when  that  is  done 
I  will  be  baptized  with  a  good  will.'' 

"  If  that  is  the  battle  with  me,"  said  Tristram, 
"you  shall  not  long  wait  for  it.  For  God  defend 
that  through  my  fault  you  should  continue  a  Sara- 
cen. Yonder  is  a  knight  whom  you  have  hurt. 
Help  me  to  put  on  his  armor  and  I  will  aid  you  to 
fulfil  your  vow." 

So  they  rode  together  to  the  wounded  knight, 
who  was  seated  on  a  bank.  Tristram  saluted  him, 
and  he  weakly  returned  the  salute. 

"Will  you  tell  me  your  name,  sir  knight?" 
asked  Tristram. 

"  I  am  Sir  Galleron  of  Galway,  and  a  Knight 
of  the  Bound  Table." 

"  I  am  sorry  for  your  hurts,  and  beg  you  to  lend 
me  your  armor,  for  I  am  unarmed,  and  would  do 
battle  with  this  knight  who  wounded  you." 

"You  shall  have  it  with  a  good  will.  But  you 
must  beware,  for  this  is  no  common  knight." 

"I  know  him  well,"  answered  Tristram,  "and 
have  an  old  quarrel  with  him." 

"Will  you  kindly  tell  me  your  name?" 

"  My  name  is  Tristram  de  Lyonesse." 


104     TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

"Then  it  was  idle  to  warn  you.  Well  I  know 
your  renown  and  worship;  and  Sir  Palamides  is 
likely  to  have  no  light  task." 

Tristram  now  took  off  the  armor  of  the  wounded 
knight,  who,  as  well  as  he  could,  helped -him  to 
put  it  on  himself.  This  accomplished,  Tristram 
mounted  his  horse  and  took  in  his  hand  Sir  Gal- 
leron's  spear. 

Riding  to  where  Palamides  stood  waiting,  he 
bade  him  make  ready.  In  a  minute  more  the  two 
strong  knights  came  hurtling  together  like  two 
lions.  Each  smote  the  other  in  the  centre  of  the 
shield,  but  Palamides's  spear  broke,  while  that  of 
Tristram  overturned  the  horse  of  Palamides.  In 
a  moment  the  unhorsed  knight  had  sprung  to  his 
feet  and  drawn  his  sword,  while  Tristram  alighted, 
tied  his  horse  to  a  tree,  and  advanced  to  the  fray. 

The  combat  that  succeeded  was  a  hard  and  well- 
fought  one,  as  only  it  could  be  between  two  such 
knights.  For  more  than  two  hours  it  continued, 
Tristram  often  bringing  Palamides  to  his  knees  by 
his  mighty  strokes,  while  Palamides  cut  through 
Tristram's  shield  and  wounded  him.  Then,  in  a 
fury  of  anger,  Tristram  rushed  upon  his  rival  and 
hurled  him  to  the  earth.  But  in  an  instant  the 
agile  Saracen  was  on  his  feet  again,  fighting  with 
all  his  old  strength  and  skill.  And  so  the  combat 
went  on,  hour  by  hour,  and,  hard  as  Tristram 
fought,  Palamides  stood  as  nobly  to  his  work,  and 
gave  him  stroke  for  stroke. 

But,  as  fortune  willed,  in  the  end  a  fierce  blow 
struck  the  sword  from  Palamides's  hand,  nor  dare 
he  stoop  for  it,  for  fear  of  being  slain.     So  he 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.     105 

stood  moveless,  regarding  it  with  a  sorrowful  heart. 

"  Now,'^  said  Tristram,  "  I  have  you  at  advan- 
tage, as  you  had  me  this  day.  But  it  shall  never 
be  said  that  Tristram  de  Lyonesse  killed  a  weapon- 
less knight.  Therefore  take  your  sword,  and  let 
us  make  an  end  of  this  battle." 

"  As  for  that,  I  am  willing  to  end  it  now,'^  said 
Palamides.  "  I  have  no  wish  to  fight  longer.  Nor 
can  I  think  that  my  offence  is  such  that  we  may 
not  be  friends.  All  I  have  done  is  to  love  La  Belle 
Isolde.  "V'ou  will  not  say  that  I  have  done  her 
aught  of  dishonor  by  holding  that  she  is  peerless 
among  ladies,  or  by  the  valor  which  love  for  her 
has  given  me.  As  for  such  offence  as  I  have  given 
you,  I  have  atoned  for  it  this  day,  and  no  one  can 
say  that  I  have  not  held  my  own  like  a  man.  But 
this  I  will  affirm,  that  I  never  before  fought  with 
a  man  of  your  might.  Therefore  I  beg  you  to  for- 
give me  for  all  wrongs  which  I  have  done  you,  and 
as  my  vow  is  now  fulfilled,  I  stand  ready  to  go 
with  you  to  the  nearest  church,  there  to  be  con- 
fessed, and  to  receive  baptism  as  a  true  and  earnest 
Christian  knight." 

"  I  gladly  forgive  you  all  you  have  done  against 
me,"  said  Tristram;  "the  more  so  that  you  have 
done  it  rather  from  love  than  from  hatred.  It  fills 
my  heart  with  joy  to  be  the  means  of  bringing  the 
valiant  Palamides  into  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
hereafter  I  shall  hold  you  among  my  best  friends. 
Within  a  mile  from  here  is  the  suffragan  of  Carlisle, 
who  will  gladly  give  you  the  sacrament  of  baptism ; 
and  all  Christendom  must  rejoice  to  gain  so  noble 
a  convert." 


106     TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

Then  they  took  their  horses  and  helped  Galleron 
to  his,  and  rode  to  the  church,  where  Tristram 
told  the  suffragan  the  purpose  of  their  coming. 
Proud  to  bring  into  the  fold  of  the  church  so  notable 
a  convert,  the  suffragan  filled  a  great  vessel  with 
water,  and  hallowed  it.  This  done,  he  confessed 
and  baptized  Sir  Palamides,  while  Tristram  and 
Galleron  stood  as  his  godfathers. 

Afterwards  the  three  knights  rode  to  Camelot, 
much  to  the  joy  of  the  king  and  queen,  who  gladly 
welcomed  Tristram  to  their  court,  and  were  no  less 
glad  to  learn  that  the  valiant  Palamides  had  be- 
come a  Christian,  and  that  the  long  rivalry  between 
him  and  Tristram  was  at  an  end.  The  great  feast 
of  Pentecost  that  followed  was  the  merriest  that 
had  ever  been  held  at  Arthur's  court,  and  the  mer- 
riest that  ever  would  be,  for  the  breath  of  coming 
woe  and  trouble  was  in  the  air,  and  the  time  was 
near  at  hand  in  which  that  worthy  fellowship  of 
noble  knights  was  destined  to  break  up  in  dire 
disaster. 

But  first  of  all  the  tide  of  disaster  came  upon 
Tristram  the  brave  and  Isolde  the  fair,  as  we  must 
now  relate.  The  chronicles  tell  the  story  at  length, 
but  the  record  of  treachery  and  crime  had  always 
best  be  short,  and  so  we  shall  mal^e  that  of  King 
Mark,  the  murderer. 

Many  years  before  the  time  to  which  we  have 
now  come.  King  Mark's  treachery  had  filled  Corn- 
wall with  mischief  and  all  the  land  with  horror, 
through  a  deed  of  frightful  crime.  And  in  thus 
wise  it  came  about.  Cornwall  had  been  invaded 
by  a  host  of  Saracens,  but  before  they  could  do  any 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    107 

mischief.  Prince  Baldwin,  King  Mark's  brother, 
attacked  them,  burned  their  ships,  and  utterly  de- 
stroyed them.  Furious  at  heart  that  his  brother 
should  win  such  honor,  while  he  lay  cowering  with 
fear  in  his  castle,  Mark  invited  him  to  Tintagil, 
with  his  wife  and  child.  There  suddenly  charging 
him  with  treason  for  attacking  the  Saracens  with- 
out orders,  he  stabbed  him  to  the  heart,  and  would 
have  slain  his  wife  and  child  as  well  had  not  the 
lady  Anglides  fled  for  life  with  her  child. 

Mark  sent  after  them  an  old  knight  named  Sir 
Sadok,  with  orders  to  bring  them  back  to  Tintagil. 
But  he  suffered  them  to  escape,  and  brought  back 
to  the  king  a  false  tale  that  he  had  drowned  the  boy. 

Many  years  now  passed  by,  during  which  Bald- 
win's son,  Alexander  the  orphan,  grew  up  to  be  a 
youth  large  of  limb  and  strong  of  arm.  In  due 
time  he  was  made  a  knight,  whereupon  Anglides 
produced  the  bloody  doublet  and  shirt  of  her  mur- 
dered husband,  which  she  had  carefully  preserved, 
and  laid  upon  the  young  knight  the  duty  of  reveng- 
ing his  father's  death.  The  story  of  the  crime  had 
been  diligently  kept  from  him,  but  he  now  accepted 
this  heavy  charge  with  alacrity,  and  vowed  solemnly 
to  devote  his  life  to  the  duty  of  revenging  his  mur- 
dered father. 

N^ews  of  all  this  was  quickly  brought  to  King 
Mark,  by  a  false  knight  who  hoped  to  win  favor 
by  turning  informer.* 

"  By  my  halidom,"  cried  Mark,  "  whom  can  I 
trust?  I  fancied  the  young  viper  was  dead  years 
ago.  That  false  hound,  Sadok,  let  him  escape.  As 
I  am  a  living  man,  he  shall  pay  the  penalty  of  his 
treason." 


108      TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

Seizing  a  sword,  he  burst  furiously  from  the 
chamber,  and  rushed  madly  through  the  castle  in 
search  of  the  knight  who  had  deceived  him.  When 
Sadok  saw  him  coming,  with  fury  in  his  face,  he 
guessed  what  had  happened,  and  drew  his  own 
sword  in  haste. 

"  King  Mark,"  he  cried,  "  beware  how  you  come 
nigh  me.  I  saved  the  life  of  Alexander,  and  glory 
in  it,  for  you  slew  his  father  cowardly  and  treach- 
erously. And  it  is  my  hope  and  prayer  that  the 
youth  may  have  the  strength  and  spirit  to  revenge 
the  good  Prince  Baldwin  on  his  murderer." 

"  What,  traitor !  What,  dog !  Do  you  dare  rail 
thus  at  me  ?  "  cried  the  king,  and  in  a  voice  of  fury 
he  bade  four  knights  of  his  following  to  slay  the 
traitor. 

These  knights  drew  their  swords  and  advanced 
in  a  body  on  Sadok;  but  he  got  the  wall  of  them, 
and  fought  so  shrewdly  that  he  killed  the  whole 
four  in  King  Mark's  presence. 

Then,  shaking  his  clinched  fist  at  the  king,  he 
said, — 

"  I  would  add  your  false  body  to  the  heap,  but 
that  I  leave  you  for  Alexander's  revenge." 

This  said,  he  took  horse  and  rode  briskly  away, 
and  in  all  his  court  ]\Iark  could  not  find  a  knight 
willing  to  pursue  him,  for  all  that  held  with  the 
king  feared  the  old  knight's  sturdy  arm. 

King  Mark  now  finding  his  wrath  of  no  avail, 
set  himself  to  devising  some  scheme  of  treachery 
by  which  the  danger  that  threatened  him  might  be 
removed.  Tn  the  end  he  made  a  compact  with  Mor- 
gan le  Fay  and  the  queen  of  Northgalis,  both  false 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    109 

sorceresses,  in  which  they  agreed  to  fill  the  land 
with  ladies  that  were  enchantresses,  and  with 
false  knights  like  Malgrim  and  Breuse  Sans  Pite, 
so  that  the  young  knight  Alexander  le  Orphelin 
should  be  surrounded  with  magic  and  treachery, 
and  without  doubt  be  taken  prisoner  or  slain. 

Soon  after  his  knighting,  Alexander  set  out  for 
King  Arthur's  court,  and  on  the  way  there  had 
many  adventures,  in  which  he  proved  himself  a 
knight  of  great  valor  and  skill.  Among  these  was 
a  mighty  battle  with  the  false  knight  Malgrim, 
whom  in  the  end  he  killed. 

But  now  Morgan  le  Fay  sought  to  entrap  him 
by  her  false  devices.  She  gave  him  a  sleeping 
draught,  and  had  him  taken  in  a  horse-litter  to  a 
castle  of  hers  named  La  Belle  Regard. 

Here  she  cured  hiip  of  his  wounds  by  healing 
salves,  but  not  until  he  had  promised  that  he  would 
not  set  foot  beyond  the  boundaries  of  that  castle 
for  a  twelvemonth  and  a  day.  When  he  had  recov- 
ered, Alexander  chafed  bitterly  at  his  confinement, 
for  he  felt  sure  that  the  pledge  had  been  exacted 
from  him  to  save  King  Mark  from  his  vow  of 
revenge.     Yet  his  word  held  him  close  prisoner. 

iVs  one  day  he  wandered  through  the  halls  of  the 
castle,  like  a  young  lion  in  a  cage, — ^now  heavy 
and  sad,  now  burning  with  desire  for  action, — there 
came  to  him  a  damsel  who  was  cousin  to  Morgan 
le  Fay,  and  to  whom  the  castle  of  La  Belle  Regard 
by  right  belonged. 

"  Sir  knight,''  she  said  to  him,  "  I  find  you  dole- 
ful of  aspect;  yet  I  bear  tidings  that  should  make 
you  merry ! " 


110      TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

"  I  pray  you  tell  them  to  me/'  he  answered.  "  I 
am  here  now  a  prisoner  by  promise,  but  must  say 
that  time  hangs  very  heavy  on  my  hands/' 

"  You  are  more  of  a  prisoner  than  you  deem/' 
she  replied.  "3fly  cousin,  Morgan  le  Fay,  keeps 
you  here  for  purposes  of  her  own  which  you  will 
scarcely  find  to  your  liking." 

"  I  fancy  she  keeps  me  here  through  an  under- 
standing with  King  Mark,"  he  rejoined.  "  1  have 
no  faith  in  her,  but  I  cannot  break  my  word  of 
honor.^^ 

"  Truly,  fair  sir/'  she  said,  "  I  pity  your  unhappy 
lot,  and  have  a  plan  in  mind  through  which  you 
may  escape  from  this  durance  without  loss  of 
honor." 

"  Do  that  and  I  shall  owe  you  my  life's  service/' 
he  answered,  warmly.  "  Tell  me,  dear  lady,  by 
what  means  I  can  be  freed." 

"  This  I  may  justly  say,  that  this  castle  of  right 
belongs  to  me.  I  have  been  unjustly  deprived  of 
it,  and  in  right  and  honor  you  are  my  prisoner, 
not  Morgan's.  I  have  an  uncle  who  is  a  powerful 
nobleman,  the  p]arl  of  Pase,  and  who  hates  Morgan 
le  Fay  above  all  persons.  I  shall  send  to  him,  and 
pray  him  for  my  sake  to  destroy  this  castle,  which 
harbors  only  evil  customs.  He  will  come  at  my 
wish  and  set  fire  to  the  building  throughout:  As 
for  you,  I  shall  get  you  out  at  a  private  postern, 
and  there  have  your  horse  and  armor  ready." 

"  Truly,  fair  maiden,  you  are  as  wise  as  you  are 
beautiful/'  he  answered,  in  eager  accents.  "  Re- 
lease me  from  imprisonment  to  Morgan  and  I  will 
hold  myself  your  prisoner  for  life." 


THE  RIVALRY  OP  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDBS.    Ill 

Then  she  sent  to  her  uncle  the  earl,  and  bade 
him  come  and  burn  that  haunt  of  mischief, — a 
design  which  he  already  had  in  mind. 

When  the  appointed  day  came  the  Earl  of  Pase 
sought  the  castle  with  four  hundred  knights,  and 
set  fire  to  it  in  all  parts,  ceasing  not  his  eflEorts 
till  there  was  not  a  stone  left  standing  of  the  once 
proud  stronghold. 

But  Alexander  was  not  willing  to  take  this  as 
a  release  from  his  vow,  but  stationed  himself  within 
the  limits  of  the  space  where  had  stood  the  castle 
of  La  Belle  Kegard,  and  made  it  known  far  and 
wide  that  he  would  hold  that  ground  against  all 
comers  for  a  twelvemonth  and  a  day. 

Word  of  this  knightly  challenge  soon  came  to 
Arthur's  court,  where  was  then  a  lady  of  famous 
beauty  and  great  estate,  known  as  Alice  la  Belle 
Pilgrim,  daughter  of  Duke  Ansirus,  called  the  pil- 
grim, since  he  went  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem 
every  third  year. 

When  this  fair  maiden  heard  of  Alexander's 
challenge,  she  went  into  the  great  hall  of  Camelot 
and  proclaimed  in  the  hearing  of  all  the  knights 
that  whoever  should  overcome  the  champion  of 
TjB  Belle  Regard  should  wed  her  and  be  lord  of 
all  her  lands. 

This  done,  she  went  to  La  Belle  Regard,  where 
she  set  up  her  pavilion  beside  the  piece  of  earth 
held  by  the  young  knight.  And  as  the  weeks  passed 
by  there  came  from  all  directions  knights  who  had 
heard  of  Alexander's  challenge  and  Alice's  offer, 
and  many  a  hard  battle  was  fought.  Yet  from 
them  all  Alexander  came  as  victor. 


112      TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT^OYOUS  GARD. 

But  the  more  he  triumphed  over  his  knightly 
foes  the  deeper  he  fell  captive  to  his  fair  neighbor, 
for  whom  he  grew  to  feel  so  deep  a  love  that  it 
almost  robbed  him  of  his  wits.  Nor  was  his  love 
unrequited,  for  his  valor  and  youthful  beauty  had 
filled  her  heart  with  as  ardent  a  passion  for  him 
in  return,  and  she  prayed  as  warmly  for  his  victory 
in  every  combat  as  though  he  had  been  her  chosen 
champion. 

And  so  time  passed  on,  varied  by  fighting  and 
love-making,  till  one  day,  after  Alexander  had  un- 
horsed two  knights,  there  came  to  him  the  lady 
to  whom  he  owed  the  burning  of  the  castle,  who 
told  Alice  the  whole  story  .of  what  had  then 
occurred,  i 

"  You  worked  wisely  and  well,^'  answered  Alice. 
"  Sir  Alexander,  indeed,  has  not  gained  much  more 
freedom,  except  it  be  freedom  to  fight.  But  that 
is  more  his  fault  than  yours.^^ 

"  Have  I  ncrt  ?  '^  exclaimed  the  young  knight. 
"  I  have  gained  freedom  to  love  also ;  for  which  I 
am  ever  beholden  to  this  fair  damsel." 

At  this  Alice  turned  away  with  a  rosy  blush, 
while  the  maiden  stood  regarding  them  with  merry 
smiles. 

"I  have,  by  right,  the  first  claim  on  you,  Sir 
Alexander/'  she  said.  "  But  if  this  fair  lady  wants 
you,  I  should  be  sorry  to  stand  in  love's  light.  I 
yield  my  claim  in  her  favor." 

As  they  thus  conversed  in  merry  mood,  three 
knights  rode  up,  who  challenged  Alexander  to  joust 
for  the  proffered  prize  of  the  hand  and  estate  of 
Alice  la  Belle  Pilgrim.      But  the  three  of  them 


THE  RIVALRY  OF  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    113 

got  such  falls  that  they  lost  all  desire  to  wed  the 
lady,  and,  like  all  knights  whom  Alexander  over- 
came, they  were  made  to  swear  to  wear  no  arms  for 
a  twelvemonth  and  a  day. 

Yet  love  may  bring  weakness  as  well  as  strength, 
as  the  young  lover  was  to  find  to  his  cost.  For 
there  came  a  day  in  which,  as  he  stood  looking 
from  his  pavilion,  he  saw  the  lady  Alice  on  horse- 
back outside,  and  so  charming  did  she  appear  in 
his  eyes  that  his  love  for  her  became  almost  a 
frenzy.  So  enamoured  was  he  that  all  thought  of 
life  and  its  doings  fled  from  his  brain,  and  he  grew 
like  one  demented. 

While  he  was  in  this  state  of  love-lorn  blindness 
the  false-hearted  knight  Sir  Mordred  rode  up  with 
purpose  to  joust.  But  when  he  saw  that  the  youth- 
ful champion  was  besotted  with  admiration  of  his 
lady,  and  had  no  eyes  or  mind  for  aught  beside,  he 
thought  to  make  a  jest  of  him,'  and,  taking  his 
horse  by  the  bridle,  led  him  here  and  there,  design- 
ing to  bring  the  lover  to  shame  by  withdrawing 
him  from  the  place  he  had  sworn  to  defend. 

When  the  damsel  of  the  castle  saw  this,  and 
found  that  no  words  of  hers  would  rouse  Alexander 
from  his  blind  folly,  she  burned  with  indignation, 
and  bethought  her  of  a  sharper  means  of  bringing 
him  back  to  his  lost  senses. 

So  she  put  on  her  armor  and  took  a  sword  in  her 
hand,  and,  mounting  a  horse,  rode  upon  him  with 
the  fury  of  a  knight,  giving  him  such  a  buffet  on 
the  helm  that  he  thought  that  fire  flew  from  his 
eyes. 

When  the  besotted  lover  felt  this  stroke  he  came 

II-8 


14     TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  GARD. 

)f  a  sudden  to  his  wits,  and  felt  for  his  sword. 
But  the  damsel  fled  to  the  pavilion  and  Mordred 
to  the  forest,  so  that  Alexander  was  left  raging 
there,  with  no  foe  to  repay  for  that  stinging  blow. 

When  he  came  to  understand  how  the  false  knight 
would  have  shamed  him,  his  heart  burned  with 
wrath  that  Sir  Mordred  had  escaped  his  hands. 
But  the  two  ladies  had  many  a  jest  upon  him  for 
the  knightly  stroke  which  the  damsel  had  given 
him  on  the  helm. 

"  Good  faith,"  she  said,  "  I  knew  not  how  else  to 
bring  back  his  strayed  wits.  I  fancy  I  would  have 
given  him  some  shrewd  work  to  do  if  I  had  chosen 
to  stand  against  him.  These  men  think  that  none 
but  they  can  wear  armor  and  wield  swords.  I  took 
pity  on  your  champion,  Alice,  or  it  might  have 
gone  hard  with  him,"  and  she  laughed  so  merrily 
that  they  could  not  but  join  her  in  her  mirth. 

After  that  nearly  every  day  Alexander  jousted 
with  knights  of  honor  and  renown,  but  of  them  all 
not  one  was  able  to  put  him  to  the  worse,  and  he 
held  his  ground  to  the  twelvemonth's  end,  proving 
himself  a  knight  of  the  noblest  prowess. 

When  the  year  had  reached  its  end  and  his  pledge 
was  fully  kept,  he  departed  from  that  place  with 
Alice  la  Belle  Pilgrim,  who  afterwards  became  his 
loving  wife,  and  they  lived  together  with  great 
joy  and  happiness  in  hor  country  of  Benoye. 

But  though  he  let  love  set  aside  for  the  time  his 
vow  of  revenge  on  King  Mark,  he  did  not  forget 
the  duty  that  lay  before  him,  nor  did  that  evil- 
minded  king  rest  at  ease  under  the  knowledge  that 
an  avenger  was  in  the  land.     Many  a  false  scheme 


THE  RIVALRY  OP  TRISTRAM  AND  PALAMIDES.    115 

he  devised  to  keep  Alexander  from  his  court,  and 
in  the  end  his  treaxjherous  plots  proved  successful, 
for  the  young  knight  was  murdered  by  some  of 
King  Mark's  emissaries,  with  his  father's  death 
still  unrevenged. 

But  vengeance  sleeps  not,  and  destiny  had  de- 
cided that  the  false-hearted  king  should  yet  die  in 
retribution  for  the  murder  of  Prince  Baldwin. 
Alexander  left  a  son,  who  was  named  Bellengenis 
le  Beuse,  and  who  grew  up  to  become  a  valiant  and 
renowned  knight.  He  it  was  who  avenged  the 
slaughter  of  Prince  Baldwin,  and  also  of  Sir  Tris- 
tram, for  this  noble  knight  was  also  slain  by  the 
felonious  king,  as  we  must  now  tell. 

Through  the  good  services  of  King  Arthur  and 
Queen  Guenever,  after  Tristram  and  Isolde  had 
long  dwelt  at  Joyous  Garfl,  peace  was  made  be- 
tween them  and  King  Mark,  and  they  returned 
to  Tintagil,  where  for  a  long  time  all  went  on  in 
seeming  friendship  and  harmony. 

But  the  false  king  nursed  the  demon  of  jealousy 
deep  within  his  breast,  and  bided  his  time  for 
revenge.  At  length,  on  a  day  when  Tristram, 
dreaming  not  of  danger,  sat  harping  before  La 
Belle  Isolde,  the  treacherous  king  rushed  suddenly 
upon  him  with  a  naked  sword  in  his  hand  and 
struck  him  dead  at  her  feet. 

Ketribution  for  this  vile  deed  came  quickly,  for 
Bellengerus  was  at  Tintagil  Castle  at  the  time, 
brought  there  by  thirst  of  vengeance,  and  with  a 
heart  filled  with  double  fury  by  the  news  of  this 
dastardly  deed,  he  rushed  upon  King  Mark  as  he 
stood  in  the  midst  of  his  knights  and  courtiers. 


116     TRISTRAM  AND  ISOLDE  AT  JOYOUS  CARD. 

and    struck   him    to  the  heart   with   his   father's 
avenging  blade. 

Then,  aided  by  Dinas,  Fergus,  and  others  of 
Tristram's  friends,  he  turned  upon  Andred  and 
the  remainder  of  King  Mark's  satellites,  and  when 
the  work  of  blood  was  done  not  one  of  these  false- 
hearted knights  remained  alive,  and  the  court  of 
Cornwall  was  purged  of  the  villany  which  had  long 
reigned  there  supreme. 

But  La  Belle  Isolde  loved  Tristram  with  too  deep 
a  love  to  survive  his  death,  and  she  fell  swooning 
upon  the  cross  above  his  tomb  and  there  sobbed 
out  her  life;  and  she  was  buried  by  his  side,  that 
those  who  had  been  so  united  in  life  should  not  be 
parted  in  death. 

Great  was  the  grief  and  pity  aroused  throughout 
England,  and  through  till  lands  where  knighthood 
was  held  in  honor,  by  this  distressful  event,  for 
never  before  had  two  such  faithful  lovers  breathed 
mortal  air.  And  long  thereafter  lovers  made  pil- 
grimages to  their  toml),  where  many  prayed  fer- 
vently for  a  draught  from  that  magic  goblet  from 
which  Tristram  and  Isolde  drank,  and  whose  wine 
of  love  forever  after  ran  so  warmly  in  their  veins. 


BOOK  IX. 

THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 


CHAPTEE  I. 

THE   ENCHANTED    CASTLE    OF   KING    PELLAM. 

After  many  years  had  come  and  gone,  and  all 
at  the  court  of  Arthur  the  king  had  grown  older 
and  wiser,  there  came  to  pass  a  series  of  adven- 
tures more  marvellous  than  had  ever  been  known 
upon  the  earth  before,  and  of  a  nobler  kind  than 
mere  tourney ings  and  joustings,  being  no  less  than 
the  quest  of  the  holy  vessel  named  the  Sangreal, 
in  which  was  kept  a  portion  of  the  blood  of  our 
blessed  Saviour,  Jesus  Christ. 

And  through  this  quest  much  disaster  came  upon 
the  land,  and  the  noble  fellowship  of  the  Round 
Table  was  broken  up  and  destroyed,  for  many  went 
in  search  of  the  holy  vessel  who  had  lived  evil 
lives,  and  of  these  few  came  back,  but  most  of 
them  died  deaths  of  violence. 

This  sacred  talisman — the  Sangreal — ^had  been 
brought  to  England  centuries  before  by  Joseph  of 
Arimathea,  a  follower  of  our  Saviour,  and  had 
passed  down  from  him  to  his  descendant.  King 
Pellam,  of  Listengeise,  him  whom  Balin  struck  the 
dolorous  stroke,  and  who  was  destined  to  lie  in 

117 


118  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

misery  and  pain  until  he  should  be  healed  of  his 
wound  by  the  winner  of  the  holy  vessel. 

But  to  tell  how  this  perilous  quest  began  we  must 
go  long  years  back  and  relate  a  story  of  strange 
adventures  and  marvellous  deliverances. 

For  it  had  happened  that  during  a  feast  of  Whit- 
suntide Lancelot  du  Lake  left  Arthurs  court  at 
Camelot  and  rode  afar  in  search  of  adventures.  And 
after  a  long  journey,  in  which  many  strange  things 
came  to  pass,  he  arrived  at  Listengeise,  the  land 
of  King  Pellam.  Here  he  rescued  the  king's  fair 
daughter,  Elaine,  from  a  dismal  enchantment,  under 
which  she  had  long  lain  through  the  wiles  of  Morgan 
le  Fay  and  the  queen  of  Northgalis,  who  hated 
her  bitterly  from  her  renown  for  beauty. 

After  the  rescue  of  the  lady,  Lancelot  fought 
with  and  killed  a  mighty  serpent  that  haunted  a 
tomb  near  by,  and  had  done  much  harm  in  the 
land.  Then  there  came  to  him  a  dignified  and  noble 
baron,  wlio  thanked  liim  heartily  in  the  name  of 
the  king,  and  invited  him  to  a  repast  in  the  castle 
hall. 

But  as  they  sat  at  table  a  wonderful  thing  took 
place.  For  in  at  the  open  window  of  the  hall 
there  flew  a  dove,  which  bore  in  its  mouth  what 
seemed  a  little  censer  of  gold.  And  from  this  censer 
came  such  a  rich  and  penetrating  perfume  as  if 
all  the  spicery  of  the  world  had  been  there,  while 
Tipon  the  ta])le  suddenly  appeared  the  most  delicious 
of  meaU  and  drinks.  Then  came  in  a  damsel, 
young  and  beautiful,  who  bore  in  her  hands  a 
vessel  of  gold,  before  which  all  who  were  there 
kneeled  and  prayed  devoutly. 


THE  ENCHANTED  CASTLE  OP  KING  PELLAM.     1 19 

"What  may  all  this  mean?^'  asked  Lancelot  in 
deep  surprise. 

"  It  has  been  granted  you  to  see  the  most  precious 
and  wonderful  thing  in  the  world,"  answered  the 
noble  baron.  "  For  you  have  been  permitted  to 
gaze  upon  the  holy  Sangreal.  In  the  time  to  come 
all  Arthur^s  knights  shall  take  part  in  a  quest  for 
this  precious  talisman,  and  great  shall  be  the  woe 
therefrom,  for  through  that  quest  the  Kound  Table 
fellowship  shall  be  broken  up  and  many  of  its 
noble  knights  destroyed." 

But  all  that  passed  in  that  land  is  too  much  for 
us  to  tell.  We  shall  say  only  that  the  fair  Elaine 
came  to  love  Lancelot  dearly,  but  he  gave  her  no 
love  in  return,  for  all  the  affection  of  his  heart 
was  centred  upon  Queen  Guenever.  Yet  King  Pel- 
lam  so  desired  that  Lancelot  should  wed  his  fair 
daughter  that  in  the  end  he  used  enchantment,  and 
brought  him  to  make  her  his  wife  when  under  a 
magic  spell,  the  deluded  knight  fancying  that  it 
was  Guenever  whom  he  had  wedded. 

This  delusion  last  not  long,  and  when  the  de- 
ceived spouse  came  to  his  senses  and  learned  how 
he  had  been  dealt  with,  he  broke  away  like  a  mad- 
man, and,  gaining  his  horse,  rode  wildly  through 
the  land.  And  every  knight-errant  who  dared  to 
joust  with  him  was  made  to  suffer  from  the  fury 
that  burned  in  his  blood. 

Long  afterwards,  as  chance  and  adventure 
brought  about,  there  came  to  King  Pellam^s  castle 
Sir  Bors  de  Ganis,  Lancelot's  nephew.  He  was 
gladly  received,  and  treated  with  all  the  good  cheer 
and  honor  which  the  castle  could  afford.     And  as 


120      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

he  sat  at  his  repast  with  the  castle  lords,  there 
came  in,  as  it  had  come  to  Lancelot,  the  dove  with 
the  censer,  at  which  the  air  was  filled  with  the 
richest  perfume,  and  the  table  covered  with  the 
most  delicious  viands.  Then  entered  the  maiden 
with  the  holy  grail,  and  all  fell  to  their  prayers. 

"  Truly,"  said  Bors,  "  this  is  a  strange  place,  and 
a  land  full  of  marvels." 

"  This  I  will  sav,"  answered  the  noble  baron  who 
sat  in  the  king's  chair,  "  that  of  the  knights  who 
come  here  few  see  the  holy  vessel,  and  fewer  go 
away  with  any  honor.  Gawaine,  the  good  knight, 
was  here  but  lately;  but  he  saw  not  what  your 
eyes  have  beheld,  and  he  left  here  in  shame.  None 
but  those  of  a  worshipful  life  and  who  love  God 
devoutly  can  behold  this  marvel,  or  sleep  in  this 
castle  without  coming  to  harm." 

"  I  am  in  quest  of  adventures,"  said  Bors,  "  and 
shall  lie  in  your  castle  this  night,  come  what  will. 
Men  call  me  honest  and  virtuous,  and  I  stand 
ready  to  dare  all  perils  the  castle  may  hold." 

"  I  counsel  you  not,"  said  the  baron.  "  You  will 
hardly  escape  without  harm  and  shame." 

"  Let  come  what  will  come,  I  am  ready." 

"  Then  I  advise  you  to  confess,  and  go  to  your 
chamber  with  a  clean  soul,  for  you  will  be  sorely 
tried." 

"  Let  it  bo  so.     Your  counsel  is  wise." 

After  Sir  Bors  had  been  confessed  and  received 
absolution,  he  was  led  into  a  fair  large  chamber, 
around  which  were  manv  doors,  while  a  bed  of  roval 
richness  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  floor.  Here 
he  was  left  alone,  and  threw  himself  on  the  bed  in 


THE  ENCHANTED  CASTLE  OP  KING  PELLAM.     121 

his  armor,  deeming  it  wise  to  be  prepared  for  all 
that  might  come. 

Not  long  had  he  lain  there  with  open  eyes  and 
alert  wits,  when  the  room  was  all  at  once  brilliantly 
lighted  up,  though  whence  the  light  came  he  could 
not  tell.  And  suddenly  a  great  and  long  spear, 
whose  point  burnt  like  a  taper,  shot  across  the 
chamber  without  hand  to  guide  it,  and  struck  him 
in  the  shoulder  so  fierce  a  blow  that  his  armor 
was  pierced,  and  he  received  a  wound,  a  hand's- 
breadth  in  depth,  which  pained  him  bitterly. 

Quickly  afterwards  an  armed  knight  strode  in, 
with  shield  on  shoulder  and  sword  in  hand,  who 
cried  in  a  harsh  voice, — 

Arise,  sir  knight,  and  fight  with  me.^' 
I  shall  not  fail  you,''  said  Bors,  hot  with  the 
pain  of  his  wound.  "  I  am  sorely  hurt,  but  I  have 
vowed  boldly  to  dare  aught  that  might  come  to  me. 
If  that  burning  spear  came  from  your  hand  you 
shall  pay  dearly  for  it." 

With  these  words  he  sprang  from  the  bed  and 
attacked  the  intruder,  and  a  hard  and  stern  battle 
began,  which  lasted  long.  At  the  end  the  intruding 
knight  was  driven  backward  to  a  chamber  door, 
through  which  he  passed,  leaving  Bors  master  of 
the  floor. 

But  hardly  had  he  rested  a  minute  when  the 
defeated  loiight  returned,  as  fresh  as  at  the  start, 
and  attacked  Bors  with  renewed  strength.  Again 
the  battle  went  on  fiercely.  But  when  Bors  saw  his 
antagonist  once  more  retreating  towards  the  cham- 
ber door,  he  cried  out, — 

"  Not  so,  my  good  fellow.    You  played  that  trick 


122  THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

on  me  once ;  you  shall  not  again.  Back  and  defend 
yourself.  If  you  defeat  me  it  shall  be  by  strength, 
not  by  magic."  And  he  stationed  himself  before 
the  door,  and  drove  back  his  opponent  with  such 
fury,  that  in  a  moment  more  he  hurled  him  to 
the  floor. 

"  Yield,  or  you  die ! "  he  cried,  setting  his  foot 
on  the  fallen  knight's  head. 

"  I  yield,"  came  the  answer. 

"  What  is  your  name  ?  " 
I  am  Sir  Pedivere  of  the  Straight  Marches." 
Then,  Sir  Pedivere  of  the  Straight  Marches, 
take  yourself  away.  And  if  you  have  any  of  your 
fellows  behind  yonder  door,  bid  them  to  keep  out 
of  this  room,  for  I  came  here  to  sleep,  not  to  fight. 
At  Whitsunday  next,  present  yourself  at  King 
Arthur's  court,  and  tell  him  that  you  have  come 
thither  as  a  prisoner  of  Sir  Bors  of  the  sharp 
sword." 

This,  Sir  Pedivere  swore  to  do,  and  left  his  con- 
queror to  what  rest  he  could  get.  But  this  was 
little,  for  enchantment  surrounded  the  daring 
knight.  The  room  suddenly  became  full  of  frightful 
noises  and  alive  with  peril.  Whence  they  came  he 
knew  not,  whether  through  doors  or  windows,  but 
a  flight  of  arrows  and  of  crossbow  bolts  filled  the 
air,  whistling  shrewdly  past  his  ears,  while  many 
of  them  fell  upon  him  and  pierced  his  flesh  through 
the  open  places  in  his  armor. 

"  Who  can  sleep  in  such  a  den  of  witchcraft  as 
this  ?  "  he  cried,  in  a  rage,  springing  from  the  bed. 
As  he  did  so  one  of  the  doors  opened,  and  a  great 
lion  leaped  fiercely  in,  with  a  hideous  roar. 


THE  ENCHANTED  CASTLE  OF  KING  PELLAM.     123 

"  It  is  better  to  fight  a  lion  that  one  can  see, 
than  arrows  which  nobody  shoots,"  cried  Bors,  and 
he  rushed  without  hesitation  on  the  dangerous 
animal. 

Sharp  was  the  fight  that  followed,  but  of  short 
'  duration.  The  lion  sprang  wildly  upon  him,  and 
tore  the  shield  from  his  arm,  while  the  sharp  claws 
rent  his  flesh.  But  the  knight  retorted  with  a 
sweeping  stroke  that  cut  off  the  frightful  beasf s 
head,  and  stretched  its  tawny  body  lifeless  on  the 
floor. 

Then  Bors  walked  to  the  window  to  see  whither 
the  arrows  had  come,  and  as  he  looked  into  the 
castle  court  he  beheld  a  wondrous  sight.  For  be- 
fore his  eyes  stood  a  dragon,  huge  and  horrible  of 
aspect,  in  whose  forehead  were  letters  of  gold  which 
seemed  to  him  to  form  King  Arthur^s  emblem.  And 
as  he  gazed  there  leaped  into  the  court  an  old 
and  mighty  leopard,  which  sprang  upon  the  dragon 
and  engaged  in  desperate  battle  with  the  huge 
monster. 

At  last  the  dragon  spit  out  of  its  mouth  a  hun- 
dred of  what  seemed  small  dragons,  and  these 
quickly  leaped  upon  the  frightful  beast  and  rent  it 
to  fragments.  Then  all  the  animals  disappeared, 
and  an  old  man  came  into  the  court,  around  whose 
neck  two  adders  wreathed  their  folds.  In  his 
hand  was  a  harp,  upon  which  he  played,  while  he 
sang  an  old  song  telling  how  Joseph  of  Arimathea 
came  to  that  land.  When  his  song  was  ended  he 
said  to  Sir  Bors, — 

"  Go  from  this  land,  sir  knight,  for  you  shall 
have  no  more  adventures  here.     You  have  played 


124  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

your  part  well  and  nobly,  and  shall  do  still  better 
hereafter,  for  wondrous  things  are  reserved  for  you/' 

Then  Bors  saw  a  dove  of  whitest  plumage  fly 
across  the  court  with  a  golden  censer  in  its  mouth, 
from  which  seemed  to  stream  the  most  delicious 
perfumes.  And  the  tempest  which  had  raged  in  the 
sky  suddenly  ceased,  while  from  the  rent  clouds 
the  full  moon  poured  down  its  white  light  to  the 
earth. 

Next  there  came  into  the  court  four  children 
who  bore  four  tapers,  and  an  old  man  in  their  midst 
with  a  censer  in  one  hand  a  spear  in  the  other, 
and  that  spear  was  called  the  spear  of  vengeance. 

"Go  to  your  cousin.  Sir  Lancelot,"  said  the  old 
man,  "  and  tell  him  what  you  have  seen,  and  that 
if  he  had  been  as  clean  of  sin  as  he  should  be,  the 
adventure  which  all  this  signifies  would  have  been 
his.  Tell  him,  moreover,  that  though  in  worldly 
adventures  he  passes  all  others  in  manhood  and 
prowess,  there  are  many  his  betters  in  spiritual 
worth,  and  that  what  you  have  seen  and  done  this 
night  he  was  not  deemed  worthy  of." 

Then  Bors  saw  four  meanly-dressed  gentlewomen 
pass  through  his  chamber,  and  enter  an  apartment 
beyond  which  was  lit  up  with  a  light  like  that  of 
midsummer.  Here  they  knelt  before  an  altar  of 
silver  with  four  pillars,  where  also  kneeled  a  man 
in  the  dress  of  a  bishop.  And  as  the  knight  looked 
upward  he  beheld  a  naked  sword  hovering  over  his 
head,  whose  blade  shone  like  silver,  yielding  a  flash- 
ing light  that  blinded  him  as  he  gazed.  As  he 
stood  thus  sightless,  he  heard  a  voice  which  said, — 
Go  hence,   Sir  Bors,  for  as  yet  thou  art  not 


« 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      125 

worthy  to  be  in  this  place/^ 

Then  the  door  of  that  chamber  closed,  and  he 
went  backward  to  his  bed,  where  he  lay  and  slept 
undisturbed  till  morning  dawned.  But  when  the 
regent  of  King  Pellam  learned  what  had  happened 
to  his  guest  in  the  night,  and  how  he  had  escaped 
the  perils  of  the  enchanted  chamber,  he  greeted  him 
joyfully,  and  said, — 

"  You  are  the  first  that  ever  endured  so  well 
that  chamber^s  mysteries.  And  more  has  been 
shown  to  your  eyes  than  any  others  have  seen.  Go 
home,  worthy  knight.  You  are  chosen  for  great 
deeds  in  the  time  to  come/^ 

Sir  Bors  thereupon  took  his  horse  and  rode  away, 
thinking  long  and  deeply  on  all  that  had  happened 
to  him. 


CHAPTER  TI. 

THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD. 

Many  and  strange  were  the  events  that  followed 
those  we  have  just  related,  and  great  trouble  and 
woe  came  therefrom.  For  when  Sir  Bors  returned 
to  Camelot  and  told  the  story  of  the  wedding  of 
liancelot  and  Elaine,  much  was  the  secret  talk  and 
great  the  scandal.  And  when  the  news  came  to 
Guenever's  ears  she  flamed  with  wrath. 

N^ot  long  afterwards,  Lancelot  returned,  still  half 
frenzied  with  the  deception  that  had  been  practised 


126  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

upon  him.  When  Guenever  saw  him  she  aeeused 
him  bitterly  of  being  a  traitor  to  love,  and  harshly 
bade  him  leave  the  court,  and  never  come  again 
within  her  sight. 

This  bitter  reviling  turned  Ijancelot's  frenzy  to  a 
sudden  madness.  With  distracted  brain  he  leaped 
from  a  window  into  a  garden,  and  ran  like  a  wild 
man  through  wood  and  brake,  heedless  that  his 
clothes  were  torn  and  his  flesh  rent  with  thorns 
and  briers.  Thus  hotly  burns  despised  love  in  the 
human  heart  and  brain,  and  thus  it  may  turn  the 
strongest  senses  away  and  bring  madness  to  the 
clearest  mind. 

On  learning  what  had  passed,  Bors  and  Hector 
went  to  the  queen,  and  accused  her  harshly  of  the 
great  wrong  she  had  done  to  the  noble  Lancelot. 
But  she  was  already  torn  with  remorse,  and  she 
knelt  before  these  noble  knights,  begging  their  for- 
giveness,  and  praying  them  pitifully  to  seek  Lance- 
lot and  bring  him  back  to  the  court. 

Months  passed  and  Lancelot  returned  not,  nor 
could  he  be  found,  though  he  was  sought  through 
many  lands.  For  he  kept  afar  from  cities  and 
courts,  and  roamed  through  wilds  and  wastes,  where 
he  had  many  adventures  in  his  madness,  and  did 
strange  and  wild  things. 

For  two  years  he  wandered  hither  and  thither  in 
frenzy,  until  at  length  he  came  to  King  Pellam's 
city  of  Corbin,  and  to  the  castle  where  dwelt  the 
fair  Elaine.  Here  he  was  given  shelter  in  a  little 
outhouse,  with  straw  to  sleep  on,  while  every  day 
they  threw  him  meat  and  set  him  drink,  for  none 
would  venture  near  a  madman  of  such  savage  aspect. 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      127 

But  one  day  as  he  slept,  Elaine  chanced  to  behold 
him,  and  laiew  him  at  once  for  Lancelot.  Telling 
a  trusty  baron  of  her  discovery,  she  had  the  dis- 
tracted knight  borne  still  sleeping  into  a  tower 
chamber  in  which  was  kept  the  holy  vessel,  the 
Sangreal,  concealed  from  all  eyes  save  those  of  per- 
sons of  saintlv  life.  Lancelot  was  laid  near  this, 
and  when  all  had  left  the  chamber  a  man  of  sanctity 
entered- and  uncovered  the  vessel.  Such  was  its 
holy  influence  that  it  wrought  marvellously  upon 
the  distracted  knight  as  he  law  there  asleep  and 
the  madness  passed  away  from  his  brain.  When  he 
woke  he  was  himself  again,  as  whole  a  man  in 
mind  and  body  as  any  that  stood  upon  the  earth. 
For  so  healing  was  the  virtue  of  that  precious  vessel 
that  it  not  only  drove  the  cloud  of  madness  from  his 
mind,  but  gave  him  back  all  his  old  might  and 
comeliness  of  body. 

Then,  ashamed  of  his  frenzy,  and  anxious  not 
to  be  known,  Lancelot  assumed  the  name  of  the 
Chevalier  Mai  Fet,  or  the  knight  who  has  tres- 
passed, and  took  up  his  abode  with  Elaine  and 
many  knights  and  ladies  at  a  castle  given  him  by 
King  Pellam.  This  stood  on  an  island  in  the 
midst  of  a  deep  and  clear  lake,  which  Lancelot 
named  the  Joyous  Isle.  And  now,  filled  again 
with  martial  fervor,  he  made  it  known  far  and  wide 
that  he  would  joust  with  any  knights  that  came  that 
way,  and  that  any  one  who  should  put  him  to  the 
worst  would  receive  as  a  prize  a  jewel  of  worth  and 
a  jerfalcon. 

But  none  won  the  prize,  though  very  many  noble 
knights  jousted  with  the  Chevalier  Mai  Fet. 


128  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Last  of  all  came  Percivale  and  Hector,  who  had 
been  long  in  search  of  Lancelot.  Learning  the 
challenge,  Percivale  jousted  with  Lancelot,  and 
afterwards  they  fought  with  swords.  So  long  and 
even  was  their  combat,  that  a  length  both  paused 
for  breath.  And  now  Percivale,  wondering  who 
this  sturdy  knight  could  be,  told  his  name,  and 
asked  for  his  in  return.  At  this,  Lancelot  threw 
away  his  weapon,  and  took  his  late  opponent  in 
his  arms,  crying  out  that  he  was  Lancelot  du  Lake. 

Glad  was  the  meeting  between  these  old  friends 
and  comrades,  and  richly  were  the  new-comers  en- 
tertained in  the  castle.  But  in  the  end  they  per- 
suaded Ijancelot  to  go  with  them  to  Camelot,  and 
the  disconsolate  Elaine  was  left  to  return,  with 
her  knights  and  ladies,  to  her  father's  castle. 

After  these  events  vears  came  and  went,  until 
many  summers  and  winters  had  passed  over  Eng- 
land's fair  isle,  and  age  had  begun  to  lay  its  hand 
on  those  who  had  been  young,  while  those  who 
had  been  children  grew  up  and  became  knights 
and  ladies.  Then  came  at  length  the  time  fixed 
by  destiny  for  the  adventure  of  the  Sangreal.  And 
thus  this  adventure  began. 

When  again  approached  the  vigil  of  Pentecost, 
and  all  the  fellowship  of  the  Hound  Table  had 
come  to  Camelot,  and  the  tables  were  set  to  dine, 
there  rode  into  the  great  hall  a  gentlewoman  of 
noble  aspect,  whose  horse  was  white  with  sweat  and 
foam. 

She  saluted  Lancelot  and  begged  him  to  go  with 
her,  though  whither  and  for  what  purpose  she  would 
not  say.    Stirred  hy  his  love  of  adventure,  he  armed 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      129 

* 

and  rode  with  her,  and  before  the  day's  end  reached 
an  abbey  of  nuns  in  a  secluded  valley.  Here,  as 
he  stood  conversing  with  the  abbess,  there  came  in 
to  him  twelve  nuns,  bringing  with  them  a  youth 
who  had  not  yet  reached  manhood,  but  was  large 
and  powerful  of  frame,  and  as  handsome  of  face 
as  any  man  he  had  ever  seen. 

"  Sir,''  said  the  ladies,  with  weeping  eyes,  "  we 
bring  you  this  cliild,  whom  we  have  long  nour- 
ished, and  pray  you  to  make  him  a  knight;  for 
there  is  no  worthier  man  from  whom  he  can  re- 
ceive the  order  of  knighthood,  and  we  hold  him 
worthy  of  your  sword." 

Lancelot  looked  long  at  the  young  squire,  and 
saw  that  he  was  seemly,  and  demure  as  a  dove, 
and  of  wonderful  beauty  of  form  and  features, 
and  his  heart  went  out  with  great  love  for  the 
beautiful  youth. 

"What  is  his  name?"  asked  Lancelot. 

"We  call  him  Galahad." 

"  Comes  this  desire  from  himself  ?  " 
It  does,"  said  they  all. 
From  whom  has  he  sprung  ?  " 

"  His  mother  is  dead.  His  father  is  a  full  noble 
knight,  as  you  shall  soon  learn." 

"  Then  he  shall  be  knighted  by  my  hand  to- 
morrow at  the  morning  services,  for  truly  he  seems 
worthy  of  it." 

That  night,  Lancelot's  cousins,  Bors  and  Lionel, 
stopped  at  the  abbey,  and  spent  there  a  cheery 
evening  with  their  noble  kinsman.  At  early  morn 
of  the  next'  day  he  gave  the  accolade  to  the  youth, 
pronouncing  him  knight,   and  bidding   Bors  and 

II-9 


130      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Lionel  to  stand  as  his  godfathers  in  the  order  of 
knighthood. 

"And  may  God  make  you  a  good  man  and  a 
noble  knight/'  he  said.  "Beauty  you  have  now, 
equal  to  any  I  have  ever  seen,  and  strength  and 
courage  I  doubt  not;  if  you  bear  with  these  a 
noble  heart  and  an  earnest  mind  you  have  the  best 
treasures  that  God  can  confer  or  man  possess.'^ 

Then,  when  they  had  broken  their  fast,  Lancelot 
said  to  the  demure  and  modest  young  knight, — 

"  Fair  sir,  will  you  come  with  me  to  the  court 
of  King  Arthur  ? '' 

"  I  humbly  beg  your  pardon,"  said  Galahad,  "  but 
I  cannot  come  at  this  time.     Trust  me  to  follow 


soon." 


Then  Lancelot  and  his  cousins  left  the  abbey 
and  rode  to  Camelot,  where  they  arrived  before 
the  hour  of  the  feast.  In  the  great  hall  were  many 
noble  knights,  some  of  them  strangers,  who  walked 
about  the  Round  Table,  reading  the  names  in  letters 
of  gold  in  the  several  seats,  and  saying, — 

"  Here  sits  Gawaine,  here  Lancelot,  here  Per- 
civalc,"  and  so  with  the  others. 

At  length  they  came  to  the  seat  perilous,  in  which 
no  man  but  Percivale  had  hitherto  dared  to  sit, 
and  which  he  no  longer  occupied.  To  their  deep 
surprise  they  found  there  newly  written  in  letters 
of  gold  those  words, — 

"  Four  hundred  and  fifty-four  winters  after  the 
passion  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  knight  shall 
come  for  whom  this  seat  is  held  by  destiny." 

"What  marvellous  thing  is  this?"  cried  all  who 
saw  it.    "  Here  is  a  miracle." 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      131 

*^In  the  name  of  God,  what  means  it?"  cried 
Lancelot.  "  Percivale  long  since  had  warning  to 
leave  that  seat.  Who  shall  fill  it  to-day,  for  this 
is  the  feast  of  Pentecost  of  the  four  hundred  and 
fifty-fourth  year.  The  year  and  day  have  come, 
but  where  and  who  is  the  man?  I  advise  that 
these  letters  be  hidden,  till  he  come  for  whom 
this  seat  is  pre-ordained." 

ITien  it  was  ordered  that  the  writing  should  be 
covered  with  a  cloth  of  silk ;  and  the  king  bade  his 
guests  to  hasten  to  dinner,  and  forget  for  the  time 
being  what  they  had  seen.  "^ 

"  Sir,"  said  Kay,  the  steward,  ^^  if  you  go  to 
table  now  you  will  break  your  old  custom,  not  to 
sit  at  dinner  on  this  day  till  you  have  seen  or 
heard  of  some  adventure." 

*^  Very  true,"  said  the  king.  "  I  had  forgotten 
my  custom  through  this  strange  event." 

As  they  stood  thus  speaking,  there  came  hastily 
into  the  court  a  squire,  whose  eyes  were  big  with 
wonder. 

"  Sire,  I  bring  you  marvellous  tidings,"  he  cried 
to  the  king. 

"  What  are  they  ?  "    demanded  Arthur. 

"  As  I  stood  but  now  by  the  river,  I  saw  floating 
on  its  waters  a  great  square  stone,  and  above  this 
stood  the  hilt  of  a  sword,  whose  blade  was  thrust 
deeply  into  the  stone." 

^^  A  stone  that  floats !  "  said  the  king.  "  That  is 
strange,  indeed.     I  must  see  this  marvel." 

Then  he,  followed  by  all  the  knights,  went  to 
the  river,  and  saw  there  that  the  squire  had  spoken 


132  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

truly;  for  a  great  stone  that  seemed  of  red  marble 
floated  like  wood  on  the  water,  and  thrust  deeply 
into  it  was  a  rich  sword,  in  whose  pommel  were 
many  jewels  of  price.  As  they  looked  in  wonder 
the  stone  whirled  inward  on  an  eddy  and  came 
aground  at  their  feet.  And  now  they  saw  that  the 
precious  stones  were  set  in  letters  of  gold,  which 
none  there  could  read.  But  there  was  a  man  at 
the  court  learned  in  strange  tongues,  and  he  being 
sent  for,  read  these  with  ease,  and  thus  interpreted 
them, — 

"  Xever  shall  the  hand  of  man  draw  me  from 
this  stone  until  he  comes  by  whose  side  I  am  to 
hang ;  and  he  shall  be  the  best  knight  in  the  world.'^ 

"Lay  your  hand  on  this  sword  and  draw  it," 
said  the  king  to  Lancelot.  "  To  you  it  surely  be- 
longs ;  for  you  are  the  best  knight  in  the  worM." 

"  Best  of  hand,  mayhap,  but  not  of  heart  and 
life,'*  said  Lancelot,  soberly.  "  Certes,  sir,  that 
sword  is  not  for  me,  nor  have  I  the  hardiness  to 
set  hand  thereto.  I  had  a  vision  in  my  last  night's 
sleep,  and  this  it  told  me:  that  he  who  seeks  to 
draw  that  sword,  and  fails  therein,  shall  in  time 
receive  from  it  a  wound  which  shall  be  very  long  in 
healing.  And  this  more  I  learned,  that  this  same 
day,  and  with  the  drawing  of  that  sword,  shall 
begin  the  marvellous  quest  of  the  holy  vessel,  the 
Sangreal.  For  fate  has  destined  that  this  precious 
amulet  shall  be  sought  throughout  the  world;  and 
to  him  who  finds  it  the  greatest  of  earth's  honors 
shall  come." 

The  king  and  all  the  knights  heard  these  words 
with  wonder,  for  Lancelot  spoke  like  one  inspired. 
Then  Arthur  turned  to  Gawaine. 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      133 

"Fair  nephew,"  he  said,  "try  you  this  task  for 
my  love." 

"  Saving  your  good  grace,"  said  Gawaine,  "  that 
I  shall  not  do." 

"Then,  sir,  seek  to  draw  the  sword  at  my  com- 
mand." 

"Your  command  I  must  obey,"  said  Gawaine, 
"  yet  I  dread  to  meddle  with  magic." 

Then  he  took  the  sword  by  the  handle,  and  pulled 
with  all  his  might,  but  he  could  not  stir  it. 

"  I  thank  you,"  said  the  king,  "  for  the  trial, 
even  if  vou  have  failed." 

"  My  lord  Gawaine,"  said  Lancelot,  "  bear  well 
in  mind,  this  sword  shall  touch  vou  so  sore  that 
you  would  give  the  best  castle  in  this  kingdom 
not  to  have  set  your  hand  thereto." 

"  It  may  be,"  answered  Gawaine.  "  Yet  I  could 
not  disobey  the  command  of  the  king." 

Then  the  king  turned  to  Percivale,  and  asked 
him  for  his  love  to  trv  the  task. 

"  Gladly  will  I,"  he  said,  "  if  only  to  bear  Ga- 
waine fellowship." 

But  pull  as  strongly  as  he  would,  the  sword 
yielded  not  to  his  hand.  And  there  were  more 
there  so  hardy  as  to  disregard  Lancelot's  warning 
and  seek  to  draw  the  sword,  but  to  no  hand  would 
it  yield. 

"  Try  no  more,"  said  Kay  to  the  king.  "  You 
have  seen  your  marvel,  and  now  may,  with  a  good 
appetite,  go  to  your  dinner." 

This  advice  seemed  timely  to  the  king,  and  all 
went  to  the  court,  where  the  knights  took  their 
seats  at  the  Round  Table,  and  were  served  by  young 


134  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

men  lately  made  knights.  When  they  had  been 
fully  served,  every  seat  being  filled  save  the  seat 
perilous,  another  marvellous  thing  happened.  For 
suddenly  all  the  doors  and  windows  of  the  hall  shut 
of  themselves.  Yet  the  room  was  not  greatly  dark- 
ened, and  men  looked  into  one  another's  faces 
with  abashed  and  frightened  visages. 

"  Fair  fellows  and  lords,"  said  the  king,  "  this  is 
a  day  of  strange  events.  And  I  doubt  if  we  shall 
not  see  greater  before  night  comes,  for  it  seems  a 
day  set  aside  by  the  fates." 

As  he  spoke,  there  came  into  the  hall  an  ancient 
man,  clothed  all  in  white,  but  no  knight  knew 
through  which  door  he  had  entered.  By  the  hand 
he  led  a  young  knight,  clad  in  red  armor,  but  with- 
out sword  or  shield,  an  empty  scabbard  hanging 
by  his  side. 

"  Peace  be  with  you,  fair  lords,"  said  the  old 
man.     Then  he  turned  to  King  Arthur,  and  said, — 

"  Sir,  I  bring  with  me  a  young  knight  who  is  of 
kingly  lineage,  and  of  the  kindred  of  Joseph  of 
Arimathea.  By  his  hand  many  strange  marvels 
are  destined  to  be  accomplished." 

The  king  heard  these  words  with  close  attention, 
and  answered  graciously, — 

"  Sir,  you  are  right  welcome  here,  and  the  young 
knight  you  bring." 

Then  the  old  man  removed  the  youth's  armor, 
and  put  upon  him  a  coat  of  red  sendal  and  a  mantle 
that  was  furred  with  ermine.  And  Lancelot  saw 
that  the  young  man  was  he.  whom  he  had  knighted 
that  morning  at  the  abbey. 

But  the  chief  wonder  of  the  day  was  now  to 


THE  MARVEL  OF  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      135 

appear.  For  the  old  man  said  to  his  young  com- 
panion,— 

"  Sir,  follow  me."  He  led  him  around  the  table 
till  they  came  to  the  seat  perilous,  beside  which 
sat  Lancelot.  Here  the  old  man  lifted  np  the 
silken  cloth,  and  lo!  the  letters  which  had  been 
covered  were  gone,  and  new  letters  of  gold  were 
visible,  which  read, — 

"This  is  the  seat  of  Galahad,  the  high  prince.'^ 

"  Sir,"  said  the  old  man,  "  this  seat  is  yours. 
Long  has  it  waited  your  coming.'^ 

And  he  seated  him  therein,  while  all  the  circle 
of  knights  looked  on  in  wonder.  Now  for  the  first 
time  the  young  knight  spoke. 

"  Dear  sir,"  he  said,  "  you  may  «iow  depart,  for 
you  have  done  well  what  you  were  commanded  to 
do.  Eecommend  me  to  my  grandsire.  King  Pel- 
lam,  and  say  to  him  that  I  will  come  and  see  him 
as  soon  as  I  may." 

With  this  the  old  man  departed.  Outside  there 
waited  twenty  noble  squires,  who  mounted  when 
he  came,  and  rode  away  with  him.  The  Knights 
of  the  Round  Table  marvelled  greatly  at  all  this, 
and  the  more  so  on  seeing  that  he  who  occupied 
that  chair  of  peril  was  one  so  tender  of  age,  and 
a  youth  whom  no  one  knew,  nor  whence  he  came; 
but  to  one  another  they  privately  said, — 

"  This  is  he  by  whom  the  Sangreal  shall  be 
achieved;  for  none  ever  sat  there  before  but  Per- 
civale,  and  he  was  not  long  deemed  worthy  to 
occupy  that  seat." 

The  talk  of  this  strange  event  quickly  passed 
through  the  palace,  and  came  to  the  queen,  who 


136  THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

heard  it  with  wonder.  Those  who  brought  word 
said  that  the  youth  resembled  Sir  Lancelot. 

"I  must  see  this  strange  thing/'  she  said,  and, 
followed  by  her  ladies,  she  entered  the  hall. 

"  It  is  Sir  Lancelot  in  youth  again,"  she  cried, 
on  looking  the  young  knight  in  the  face.  "  Fair 
sir,  tell  me  truly,  what  father  had  you,  and  what 
mother." 

"  King  Pellam  is  my  grandsire,"  answered  Gal- 
ahad, "  and  Elaine  was  my  mother.  As  for  my 
father,  I  know  him  not." 

"  Then  do  I,"  cried  the  queen,  "  for  he  sits  be- 
side you.  Sir  Lancelot  is  your  father.  You  are 
son  unto  the  noblest  knight  that  ever  wore  sword." 

At  these  wo?ds  Lancelot  rose  up  in  haste,  for 
he  had  not  dreamed  of  what  was  to  come;  and 
he  clasped  the  youth  in  his  arms  and  kissed  his  fair 
young  face  with  a  love  that  overflowed  his  heart. 

"  My  son !  "  he  said.  "  Can  it  be  ?  Greatly,  in- 
deed, have  I  felt  drawn  unto  you." 

"And  my  heart  went  out  to  you,  dear  father,^' 
said  Galahad,  "  from  the  moment  I  looked  upon 
your  noble  face." 

The  sight  of  this  affecting  meeting  filled  all 
hearts  there  with  joy,  and  the  king  warmly  con- 
gratulated Lancelot  on  having  found  so  worthy  a 
son ;  "  for  to  him,  I  dare  avow,"  he  said,  "  is  des- 
tined that  great  achievement  of  the  Sangreal  of 
which  you  have  this  day  told  us." 

Then  Arthur  took  Galahad  by  the  hand,  and 
said, — 

"  Come  with  me,  young  sir,"  and  led  him  from 
the  palace  to  the  river  to  show  him  the  marvel 


THE  MARVEL  OP  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.     137 

of  the  stone.  After  them  followed  the  knights,  and 
the  qneen  and  ladies  of  the  court,  all  full  of  hope 
of  greater  wonders  yet  to  come. 

"  Sir,''  said  the  king,  "  that  sword  floated  hither 
this  day.  Many  knights  of  great  prowess  have 
tried  to  draw  it  and  failed." 

"  That  is  no  marvel,"  said  Galahad.  "  The  sword 
is  not  theirs,  but  mine.  And  since  I  knew  it 
awaited  me  I  have  brought  no  sword;  but  its  scab- 
bard, as  you  may  see,  hangs  by  my  side." 

Then  he  laid  his  hand  upon  the  sword,  and, 
while  all  eyes  opened  wide  with  wonder,  drew  it 
from  the  stone  as  easily  as  if  it  came  from  the 
water  only,  and  thrust  it  into  the  scabbard,  saying 
to  the  king, — 

"It  fits  there  better  than  in  a  floating  stone." 

"  God  has  sent  it  you,"  said  the  king.  "  And  I 
doubt  not  he  will  send  you  a  shield  in  as  marvellous 


a  manner." 


« 


This  is  the  sword  that  at  one  time  belonged 
to  Balin  le  Savage,"  said  Galahad,  "  and  with 
which  he  killed  his  brother  Balan,  in  that  terrible 
joust  which  happened  many  years  ago.  The  scab- 
bard I  wear  was  Balin's  scabbard,  and  it  was  Merlin 
who  put  the  sword  into  that  stone,  saying  that  no 
hand  should  draw  it  but  that  of  Lancelot,  or  his 
son  Galahad.  Nor  can  any  man  have  forgotten 
the  dolorous  stroke  which  Balin  dealt  my  grand- 
father King  Pellam,  of  which  he  is  not  yet  healed, 
nor  shall  be  till  I  heal  him.  So  has  Merlin 
prophesied." 

As  they  talked  thus  a  lady  on  a  white  palfrey 
was  seen  riding  down  the  river  side  to  where  they 


138  THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

stood.     Reaching  the  group,  she  saluted  the  king 
and  queen,  and  asked  if  Sir  Lancelot  were  there. 
I  am  here,  fair  lady,''  he  answered. 
Sad  is  it/'  she  said,  while  tears  flowed  from 
her  eyes,  "that  all  your  great  renown  is  changed 
since  this  day's  dawn." 

"  Damsel,  why  say  you  this  ?  " 

"Until  to-day  you  were  the  best  knight  in  the 
world,"  she  answered.  "  But  he  who  should  say 
this  now  would  speak  falsely,  for  there  has  come  a 
better  than  you.  And  this  is  proved  by  the  adven- 
ture of  the  sword  to  which  you  dared  not  set  your 
hand.     Eemember  well  what  I  have  said." 

"  As  touches  that,"  rejoined  Lancelot,  "  I  never 
had  the  pride  of  being  the  best  knight  in  the  world, 
nor  do  I  envy  my  son  if  any  worship  has  passed 
from  me  to  him." 

"  Yet  you  were  the  greatest ;  and  still  are  among 
sinful  men,"  she  persisted.  "  And,  sir  king,"  she 
said  to  Arthur,  "this  more  I  am  bid  to  say,  from 
the  holy  lips  of  Nancien  the  hermit,  that  to  you 
shall  fall  to-day  the  greatest  of  honors;  for  this 
day  the  Sangreal  shall  appear  in  your  palace,  and 
feed  3^ou  and  all  your  fellowship  of  the  Round 
Table." 

With  these  words  she  turned  her  palfrey  and 
rode  away  as  she  had  come,  leaving  all  who  had 
heard  her  lost  in  wonder  and  admiration. 

When  they  had  a  little  got  over  their  wonder 
at  what  they  had  seen,  the  king  gave  orders  that  the 
stone  should  be  taken  from  the  water,  saying  that 
he  would  have  it  set  up  as  a  monument  of  those 
strange  events. 


THE  MARVEL  OP  THE  FLOATING  SWORD.      139 

"And  as  it  may  be  long  before  you  all  come  to- 
gether here  again,  I  should  like  to  have  you  joust 
in  the  meadow  of  Camelot,  by  way  of  honor  to  this 
day." 

Thus  he  spoke;  but  his  real  purpose  was  to  see 
Galahad  proved,  for  he  feared  that  if  he  once  left 
the  court  it  might  be  long  before  he  should  see 
him  again.  Then  the  knights  put  on  their  armor 
and  rode  to  the  meadow  in  a  gallant  cavalcade. 
Galahad  also,  at  the  earnest  request  of  the  king, 
put  on  armor,  but  he  would  take  no  shield,  though 
the  king  and  Ijancelot  prayed  him  to  do  so.  The 
most  he  would  consent  to  do  was  to  take  a  spear. 

But  noble  work  he  did  that  day,  meeting  all 
men  who  cared  to  break  spears  with  him,  so  that 
by  the  end  of  the  joust  he  had  thrown  down  many 
good  Knights  of  the  Eound  Table.  Only  two  of 
them,  Lancelot  and  Percivale,  were  able  to  keep 
their  seats  against  the  vigorous  onset  of  the  strong 
young  knight. 

When  the  jousting  was  at  an  end,  the  king  and 
knights  went  back  to  Camelot,  where  they  attended 
even-song  at  the  great  minster.  Thence  they  pro- 
ceeded to  the  palace  hall,  where  all  took  their  seats 
at  the  table  for  supper. 

But  as  they  sat  eating,  there  came  outside  a 
terrible  crash  of  thunder,  and  a  wind  arose  that 
seemed  as  if  it  would  rend  the  great  hall  from  its 
foundations.  In  the  midst  of  this  blast  the  hall 
was  lighted  by  a  sudden  gleam  seven  times  brighter 
than  the  midday  light,  in  whose  glare  the  knights 
sat  dumb,  none  daring  to  speak.  But  each  looked 
at  the  others,  and  it  seemed  to  each  that  his  fellows 


140  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

were  fairer  of  visage  than  he  had  ever  seen  them 
before. 

Then  the  storm  and  the  glare  passed  away  as 
suddenly  as  they  had  come,  and  there  entered  the 
hall  the  holy  grail.  None  there  saw  it,  for  it  was 
covered  with  white  samite,  but  the  hall  was  filled 
with  the  rarest  odors,  and  each  knight  saw  on  the 
table  before  him  the  meats  and  drinks  that  he 
lovod  best  in  the  world. 

When  the  holy  vessel  had  passed  through  the 
hall,  it  suddenly  vanished,  none  knew  how.  And 
not  till  then  dared  any  man  speak. 

"  Certes,"  said  the  king,  "  we  ought  to  thank 
God  devoutly  for  what  he  has  shown  us  this  day.'^ 

"  We  have  enjoyed  the  richest  of  perfumes,  and 
have  before  us  the  rarest  of  food,'^  said  Gawaine; 
"and  we  have  but  one  thing  to  regret,  that  the 
sacred  vessel  was  so  preciously  covered  that  no  eye 
might  behold  it.  But  this  miracle  has  filled  my 
soul  with  the  warmest  desire  to  see  this  holy  thing, 
and  I  therefore  vow  that  to-morrow,  without  delay, 
I  shall  set  out  in  quest  of  the  Sangreal,  and  shall 
not  return  hither  till  I  have  seen  it  more  openly, 
if  it  take  me  a  twelvemonth  or  more.  If  I  fail 
in  the  end,  T  shall  return  as  one  who  is  not  worthy 
to  behold  the  holy  vessel." 

On  hearing  these  words  the  other  knights  arose 
as  one  man,  and  repeated  the  vow  which  Gawaine 
had  made. 

Upon  this.  King  Arthur  sprang  to  his  feet  in  deep 
displeasure,  for  there  came  to  his  mind  like  a 
vision  a  host  of  evil  consequences  from  this  incon- 
siderate vow. 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  141 


You  are  over-hast}%  Gawaine/'  he  said,  sharply, 
and  have  done  me  a  lifelong  evil  with  your  vow. 
For  you  have  bereft  me  of  the  fairest  fellowship 
that  ever  came  together  in  this  world.  When  my 
knights  depart  hence  on  that  difficult  search,  well 
I  know  that  they  will  never  all  meet  again  in  this 
world,  for  many  shall  die  in  the  quest.  Therefore 
it  distresses  me  deeply,  for  I  have  loved  them  as  I 
loved  my  life,  and  I  would  rather  have  my  soul 
depart  from  my  body  than  to  lose  their  noble  fel- 
lowship. Long  have  we  dwelt  together  in  sorrow 
and  in  joy,  but  I  fear  our  happy  days  are  at  an  end, 
and  that  trouble  and  suffering  await  us  in  the  time 
to  come.  What  God  wills  must  be,  but  my  heart 
is  sore  at  the  thought  of  it.'^ 

And  men  who  looked  upon  the  king  could  see 
tears  of  distress  and  grief  flowing  from  his  eyes. 


CHAPTER  III. 

HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD. 

When  morning  came  the  knights  made  ready  for 
their  departure,  amid  the  tears  and  lamentations 
of  ladies,  and  with  the  deep  sorrow  of  the  king  and 
queen.  For  there  were  a  hundred  and  fifty  of  them 
in  all,  comprising  the  whole  fellowship  of  the  Table 
Hound,  and  King  Arthur  had  deep  reason  for  his 


142  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

fear  that  he  would  never  gather  all  these  gallant 
knights  round  his  festal  board  again.  And  so  they 
mounted  and  rode  through  the  streets  of  Camelot, 
where  was  weeping  of  rich  and  poor,  and  the  king 
turned  away  and  could  not  speak  for  grief,  while 
Queen  Guenever  hid  herself  in  her  chamber,  to  be 
alone  with  her  bitter  sorrow  at  the  going  of 
Lancelot. 

Onward  they  rode  in  company  until  they  came 
to  a  castle  and  town  that  were  named  Vagon. 
There  they  stopped  and  were  well  entertained  by 
the  lord  of  the  castle,  who  was  a  man  of  great  hos- 
pitality. But  when  morning  came  it  was  decided 
between  them  that  they  should  separate,  each  taking 
his  own  course,  so  that  the  Sangreal  might  be 
sought  in  all  quarters.  This  they  did  with  much 
sorrow  and  many  fervent  farewells,  each  knight 
taking  the  way  that  he  liked  the  best,  and  riding 
alone  and  afar  on  his  perilous  quest. 

First  must  we  follow  the  young  knight  Galahad, 
who  still  rode  without  a  shield,  and  who  passed 
onward  for  four  davs  without  an  adventure.  Near 
eventide  of  the  fourth  day  he  came  to  a  white  abbev, 
where  he  was  received  with  great  respect,  and  led 
to  a  chamber  that  he  might  lay  off  his  armor.  And 
here,  to  his  surprise,  he  met  with  two  of  the  goodly 
company  from  which  he  had  lately  parted.  Sir 
TJwaine  and  King  Bagdemagus. 

"  Sirs,"  said  Gaiahad,  "  what  adventure  l)rought 
you  hither  ?  " 

"We  are  told,'^  they  replied,  "that  within  this 
place  is  a  shield  of  perilous  significance.  For  he 
who  bears  it  about  his  neck  runs  deep  risk  of  being 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  143 

slain  within  three  days,  or  maimed  forever.  Yet," 
said  Badgemagus,  "  I  shall  bear  it  to-morrow  and 
try  my  fortune/' 

"  In  the  name  of  God,  try  it/'  said  Galahad. 
"  Yet  truly  you  take  a  great  risk." 

"  If  I  fail  therein,  you  shall  take  the  adventure. 
I  am  sure  you  will  not  fail."  . 

"  I  agree  to  that,"  said  Galahad.  "  I  have  ridden 
far  enough  without  a  shield." 

Then  they  went  to  supper,  and  afterwards  to 
sleep.  When  morning  came  Bagdemagus  asked  of 
the  abbot  where  the  magic  shield  was,  and  a  monk 
led  him  behind  an  altar  where  hung  a  shield  as 
white  as  snow,  but  with  a  red  cross  in  its  centre. 

"  I  hope  you  are  well  advised  of  what  you  do," 
said  the  monk.  "  Xo  knight,  unless  he  be  the 
worthiest  in  the  world,  can  safely  bear  this  shield.f' 

"  I  know  well  that  I  am  not  the  best  of  knights," 
said  Bagdemagus;  "and  yet  I  shall  wear  it  and 
dare  the  danger." 

Then  he  took  it  out  of  the  monastery,  and  said 
to  Galahad, — 

"If  it  please  you,  await  me  here  till  you  learn 
how  I  shall  speed." 

"  I  shall  await  tidings,"  said  Galahad. 

Bagdemagus  now  rode  forward  with  a  squire, 
that  he  might  send  back  tidings  of  his  good  or  ill 
fortune,  and  passed  onward  for  two  miles,  when  he 
found  himself  in  a  valley  before  a  hermitage. 
Here  he  saw  a  stalwart  knight  in  white  armor, 
horse  and  all,  who,  in  seeing  the  red-cross  shield, 
rode  upon  him  at  the  full  speed  of  his  charger. 
Bagdemagus  put  his  spear  in  rest  and  rode  to  meet 


144  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

him,  but  his  spear  broke  on  the  white  knight,  while 
he  was  wounded  in  the  right  shoulder  and  borne 
from  his  horse,  the  treacherous  shield  refusing  to 
cover  him.  Then  the  victor  knight  alighted  and 
took  the  white  shield  from  him,  saying, — 

"  Sir  knight,  you  have  acted  with  more  folly  than 
wisdom,  for  you  should  have  known  that  only  he 
who  has  no  peer  living  can  safely  bear  this  shield.^^ 

Then  he  went  to  the  squire  who  had  come  with 
King  Bagdemagus,  and  said, — 

"  Bear  this  shield  to  the  good  knight  Sir  Gala- 
had, whom  you  left  in  the  abbey,  and  greet  him 
from  me." 

"  What  shall  I  tell  him  is  your  name  ?  " 

"Take  no  heed  of  my  name.  That  is  not  for 
you  to  know,  nor  for  any  earthly  man.  Content 
yourself  with  telling  Sir  Galahad  that  this  shield 
is  for  him,  and  for  no  other  man  to  wear.  And 
may  God  aid  him  to  bear  it  worthily  and  worship- 
fuliy." 

But  the  squire  went  first  to  Bagdemagus  and 
asked  him  if  he  were  seriously  wounded. 

"  Forsooth,  I  am,"  he  said.  "  I  shall  scarce 
escape  from  death." 

The  squire  then  conveyed  him  in  great  pain  to 
the  hermitage,  and  left  him  in  care  of  the  hermit. 
And  as  the  chronicle  tells,  he  lay  there  long,  and 
barely  escaped  with  life. 

"  Sir  Galahad,"  said  the  squire,  when  he  had 
returned  to  the  abbey,  "  King  Bagdemagus  has  paid 
dearly  for  his  venture.  He  lies  at  a  hermitage 
sorely  wounded.  As  for  you,  the  knight  that  over- 
threw him  sends  you  greeting,  and  bids  you  to  bear 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  145 

this  shield,  through  which  marvellous  adventures 
shall  come  to  you/' 

"  Then  blessed  be  God  and  fortune,"  said  Gala- 
had. 

He  now  resumed  his  arms  and  mounted  his  horse, 
hanging  the  white  shield  about  his  neck  and  com- 
mending himself  to  God.  Uwaine  offered  to  bear 
him  company,  but  this  was  not  to  be. 

"  Sir  knight,'^  said  Galahad,  "  I  thank  you  for 
your  offer,  but  I  must  go  alone,  save  that  this  squire 
shall  bear  me  fellowship." 

With  these  words  the  youthful  knight  rode  away, 
and  soon  came  to  where  the  white  knight  abode 
by  the  hermitage.  They  saluted  each  other  cour- 
teouslv,  and  fell  into  a  conversation  in  which  the 
white  knight  told  Galahad  the  story  of  the  magical 
shield. 

"  In  the  far  past  time,"  he  said,  "  soon  after 
Joseph  of  Arimathea  took  down  the  body  of  our 
Lord  from  the  holy  cross,  and  bore  it  from  Jerusa- 
lem to  a  city  named  Sarras,  there  was  a  king  of 
Sarras  named  Evelake,  who  was  then  at  war  with 
the  Saracens.  This  king,  through  the  teachings  of 
Joseph,  was  converted  from  the  old  law  to  the  new, 
and  for  him  this  shield  was  made,  in  the  name  of 
Him  who  died  on  the  cross.  Afterwards,  when 
Evelake  was  in  battle,  the  shield  was  covered  with 
a  cloth,  which  was  only  removed  in  times  of  deadly 
peril,  and  then  his  enemies  saw  the  figure  of  a  man 
on  the  cross,  before  which  they  fell  back  discomfited. 
At  times  the  cross  of  the  shield  would  vanish  away, 
and  at  times  stand  out  clear  and  bright;  and  such 
was  its  virtue  that  a  soldier  whose  hand  was  strickeix 

IMG 


146  THE   QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

off  was  made  whole  again  by  touching  the  cross. 
The  time  came  at  length  when  Joseph  left  Palestine 
and  journeyed  westward,  and  King  Evelake  with 
him,  till  they  came  to  Great  Britain,  where  all  the 
people  had  been  pagans,  but  were  then  converted 
to  the  Christian  faith.  Soon  afterwards  Joseph 
sickened  and  came  near  to  death,  and  while  he  lay 
in  his  bed  he  bade  Evelake  bring  him  the  shield, 
and  on  it  he  traced  a  red  cross  with  his  own  blood. 
Then  he  said  to  Evelake,  *  No  man  hereafter  shall 
bear  this  shield  but  he  shall  repent  it,  until  Gala- 
had, the  last  of  my  lineage,  shall  come  to  seek  it, 
and  with  it  he  shall  do  marvellous  deeds.^  ^  Where 
shall  the  shield  await  his  coming?'  asked  Evelake. 
^  You  shall  leave  it  in  the  abbey  where  Nancien  the 
hermit  shall  lie  after  his  death,  and  thither  the 
knight  Galahad  shall  come  for  it  soon  after  he 
receives  the  order  of  knighthood/  This  is  the 
story  of  the  shield,  and  this  day  has  the  prediction 
been  fulfilled.  Wear  the  shield  worthily  and  well, 
young  knight,  for  much  glory  and  renown  shall 
come  to  you  through  it.  You  are  in  God's  hands; 
to  God  commend  vourself.'' 

With  these  words  the  white  knight  vanished  away, 
and  in  the  place  where  he  had  stood  was  seen  but 
empty  air. 

Then  the  squire,  who  had  heard  these  words, 
alighted  and  kneeled  at  Galahad's  feet,  praying 
that  he  would  make  him  a  knight. 

''That  I  shall  consider,"  said  Galahad.  "But 
now  let  us  return  to  the  abbey.'^ 

Here  Galahad  drove  away  a  fiend  that  had  long 
dwelt  in  a  tomb  near' by,  where  it  made  such  noise 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  147 

that  none  could  venture  near  it.  But  the  virtue 
of  the  shield  protected  him  from  all  harm  from  this 
evil  shape,  which  was  forced  to  depart. 

When  morning  came,  he  asked  the  young  squire 
his  name. 

"  Sit/'  he  answered,  "  men  call  me  Melias  de 
Lile,  and  I  am  the  son  of  the  king  of  Denmark.'^ 

"  Then,  fair  sir,  since  you  come  of  kings  and 
queens,  I  shall  make  you  a  knight;  and  look  you 
that  knighthood  sit  well  on  you,  for  you  should 
be  a  mirror  of  chivalry.^' 

"  That  shall  I  seek  to  be,''  said  Melias. 

Then  Galahad  gave  him  the  accolade  as  he 
kneeled  before  him,  and  bade  him  rise  a  knight. 

"Now,  dear  sir,''  said  Melias,  "since  you  have 
done  me  this  high  honor,  it  is  but  right  that  you 
grant  me  my  first  request,  so  that  it  bq  in  reason." 

"You  speak  justly,"  said  Galahad. 

"I  beg,  then,  that  you  let  me  ride  with  you  in 
the  quest  of  the  Sangreal  till  some  adventure  shall 
part  us.'^ 

"  That  I  grant  willingly." 

Armor  was  now  brought  to  Melias,  and  when  it 
had  been  girded  upon  him  he  and  Galahad  rode 
away,  and  passed  onward  all  that  week  without  an 
adventure.  But  on  the  Monday  next,  as  they  set 
out  from  an  abbey,  they  came  to  where  a  cross 
marked  a  parting  of  the  road.  On  the  cross  was 
written, — 

"  Ye  knights-errant,  that  ride  in  quest  of  adven- 
tures, here  lie  two  ways.  He  that  takes  the  right- 
hand  road  shall  not  leave  it  again,  if  he  be  a  good 
man  and  a  worthy  knight.     He  that  takes  the  left- 


148  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

hand  shall  not  lightly  win  fortune,  for  his  strength 
and  endurance  will  be  soon  tried." 

"  If  vou  will  suffer  me  to  take  the  left-hand  road 
I  should  like  it  greatly/'  said  Melias.  "My 
strength  and  skill  need  trial." 

"  It  were  better  not.  I  fancy  that  I  only  should 
face  the  danger  that  there  confronts  us." 

"  Nay,  my  lord,  I  pray  you  let  me  have  this 
adventure." 

"  Take  it,  then,  in  God's  name,"  said  Galahad ; 
"  and  do  your  duty  worthily." 

So  Melias  rode  forward  and  soon  found  himself 
in  a  forest,  through  which  he  passed  for  two  days, 
seeing  there  neither  man,  woman,  nor  child.  Then 
he  came  from  the  forest  into  a  broad  meadow,  where 
stood  a  lodge  built  of  green  boughs.  And  in  that 
lodge  was  a  chair,  on  which  lay  a  crown  of  gold 
wrought  with  rich  and  subtle  skill.  Also  there 
were  cloths  spread  upon  the  earth,  upon  which 
delicious  meats  were  laid. 

Melias  beheld  all  this  and  thought  it  marvellous. 
He  felt  no  hunger,  but  the  crown  of  gold  roused 
his  covetousness,  and  he  took  it  up  and  rode  away 
with  it.  But  not  far  had  he  ridden  when  a  knight 
came  after  him,  who  said, — 

"  Sir  knight,  why  have  you  taken  that  crown  ? 
It  is  not  yours ;  therefore  defend  yourself." 

Then  ^lelias  blessed  himself,  and  said, — 

"  Fair  Lord  of  Heaven,  help  and  save  thy  new 
made  knight." 

Then  they  rode  together  at  full  speed,  but 
Melias's  prayer  availed  him  naught,  for  the  spear- 
head of  the  other  went  through  his  hauberk,  and 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  149 

wounded  him  so  deeply  in  the  left  side  that  he 
fell  to  the  earth  like  a  dead  man.  Then  the  victor 
knight  took  the  crown  and  rode  away. 

But  with  wise  forethought  Galahad  had  fol- 
lowed Melias,  and  now  rode  into  the  valley,  where 
he  found  him  in  peril  of  death. 

"  Ah,  Melias !  ^'  he  cried,  "  better  for  you  had  you 
taken  the  other  way.  Who  haa  done  you  this 
harm  ? '' 

"  For  God's  love,  let  me  not  die  in  this  place ! '' 
said  Melias  in  reply.  "Bear  me  to  some  abbey 
near  by,  where  I  may  be  confessed  and  have  the 
rites  of  the  church.'' 

"It  shall  be  done,"  said  Galahad.  "But  where 
is  he  who  has  wounded  you  ?  " 

The  reply  came  from  the  edge  of  the  forest, 
where  Galahad  heard  a  voice  cry  in  stirring  tones, — 

"  Knight,  defend  yourself  from  me." 

"  Beware,  sir,"  warned  Melias.  "  He  it  is  that 
has  left  me  thus." 

"  Sir  knight,"  said  Galahad,  "  come  on  at  your 
peril." 

Then  they  rode  together  as  fast  as  their  horses 
could  run,  and  Galahad  drove  his  spear  through 
the  shoulder  of  his  opponent,  hurling  him  from 
his  horse.  But  in  his  fall  the  spear  broke.  Then, 
before  the  young  knight  could  turn,  another  knight 
rode  from  under  the  leaves  and  broke  his  spear 
upon  him. 

At  this  treacherous  act  Galahad  drew  his  sword 
in  wrath,  and  with  a  keen  blow  smote  off  the  left 
arm  of  his  antagonist,  whom  he  pursued  into  the 
forest. 


150  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

He  soon  returned,  however,  and  took  up  Melias 
gently,  for  the  truncheon  of  the  spear  was  in  his 
body,  and  bore  him  on  his  horse  in  his  arms  to  an 
abbey  near  at  hand.  Here  the  wounded  knight 
was  unarmed  and  laid  upon  a  bed,  where  the  rites 
of  the  church  were  administered  to  him. 

"  Sir  Galahad,^^  he  then  said,  "  let  death  come 
when  it  will,  I  am  at  peace  with  God."  And  he 
drew  the  truncheon  of  the  spear  from  his  body, 
and  swooned  away. 

But  an  old  monk  who  stood  there,  and  who  was 
a  skilful  leech,  examined  the  wound,  and  said,  "  He 
need  not  die.  By  the  grace  of  God  I  hope  to  heal 
him  of  this  wound  within  seven  weeks.'^ 

This  gladdened  Galahad,  and  he  remained  at  the 
abbey  three  days  to  see  how  Melias  should  fare. 
Then  he  asked  him  how  it  stood  with  him. 

"I  feel  now  as  if  I  may  live,''  he  answered. 

"  God  be  thanked  for  that,"  said  Galahad. 
"  Now  must  I  depart,  for  I  have  much  to  do,  and 
the  quest  of  the  Sangreal  will  not  permit  long 
leisure  and  delay." 

"  Sir,"  said  the  monk,  "  it  is  for  his  sin  this 
knight  is  so  bitterly  wounded.  He  took  on  him 
the  high  order  of  knighthood  without  clean  con- 
fession, which  was  a  sinful  thing  to  do.  As  for 
the  two  ways  to  which  you  came,  the  way  on  the 
right  betokens  the  highway  of  righteousness,  and 
the  way  on  the  left,  which  he  chose,  betokens  that 
of  sinners  and  infidels.  And  when  the  devil  saw 
his  presumption  in  taking  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal 
without  being  worthy  of  it,  he  caused  his  over- 
throw.    And  when  he  took  the  crown  of  gold  he 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  151 

sinned  in  covetousness  and  theft.  As  for  you,  Sir 
Galahad,  the  two  knights  with  whom  you  fought 
signify  the  two  deadly  sins  which  abide  in  Sir 
Melias.  But  they  could  not  withstand  you,  for 
you  are  without  deadly  sin." 

"  God  send  I  may  keep  so,"  said  Galahad.  "  Now 
must  I  depart.  I  pray  you  do  your  utmost  for 
this  knight." 

•     "  My  Lord  Galahad,"  said  Melias,  "  I  shall  get 
well,  and  shall  seek  you  as  soon  as  I  can  ride." 

"  God  grant  you  speedy  health,"  said  Galahad, 
and  he  left  the  room  and  sought  his  horse,  and 
rode  away  alone. 

After  he  had  ridden  for  days  in  various  direc- 
tions, it  chanced  that  he  departed  from  a  place 
called  Abblasoure,  where  he  had  heard  no  mass,  as 
was  his  daily  custom.  But  ere  the  day  was  old,  he 
came  to  a  mountain,  on  which  he  found  a  ruined 
chapel,  and  here  he  kneeled  before  the  altar,  and 
besought  God's  counsel.  And  as  he  prayed  he  heard 
a  voice  that  said,  "  Go  now,  thou  adventurous 
knight,  to  the  Castle  of  Maidens,  and  do  away  with 
the  wicked  customs  which  there  are  kept." 

When  Galahad  heard  this  he  took  his  horse  and 
rode  away,  full  of  gladness  that  he  might  thus  serve 
God.  And  not  long  nor  far  had  he  ridden  before 
he  saw  in  a  valley  before  him  a  strong  castle,  with 
high  towers  and  battlements  and  deep  ditches; 
and  beside  it  ran  a  broad  river,  named  the  Severn. 

Here  he  met  an  aged  man,  whom  he  saluted, 
and  asked  the  castle's  name. 

"  It  is  the  Castle  of  Maidens,"  said  the  old  man. 

^^Then  it  is  a  cursed  castle,  and  an  abode  of 


152  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

sin/'  said  Galahad.  "All  pity  is  wanting  within 
those  walls,  and  evil  and  hardness  of  heart  there 
have  their  abode." 

"Then,  sir  knight,  you  would  do  well  to  turn 
and  leave  it.'* 

"  That  shall  I  not,''  said  Galahad.  "  I  have  come 
here  to  punish  the  evil-doers  that  there  abide.'* 

Leaving  the  old  man,  he  rode  forward,  and  soon 
met  with  seven  fair  maidens,  who  said  to  him, — 

"  Sir  knight,  you  ride  in  folly,  for  you  have  the 
water  to  pass.'' 

"  And  why  should  I  not  pass  the  water  ?  *'  asked 
Galahad. 

He  continued  his  ride,  and  next  met  a  squire, 
who  said, — 

"  Sir  knight,  I  bring  you  defiance  from  the 
knights  in  the  castle,  who  forbid  you  to  go  farther 
till  they  learn  your  purpose." 

"  You  may  tell  it  to  them,  if  you  will.  I  come 
to  destroy  the  wicked  customs  of  this  castle." 

"  Sir,  if  you  abide  by  that,  you  will  have  enough 
to  do." 

"  Go  now  and  bear  them  my  answer." 

Then  the  squire  returned  to  the  castle,  from 
which  there  soon  after  rode  seven  knights,  in  full 
armor.     When  they  saw  Galahad  they  cried, — 

"Knight,  be  on  your  guard,  for  you  have  come 
to  your  death." 

"  What !  "  asked  Galahad,  "  will  you  all  assail  me 
at  once  ?  " 

"  That  shall  we ;  so  defend  yourself." 

Then  Galahad  rode  against  them  and  smote  the 
foremost  such  a  blow  that  he  nearly  broke  his  neck. 


HOW  GALAHAD  GOT  HIS  SHIELD.  153 

The  others  rode  on  him  together,  each  striking  his 
shield  with  might.  But  their  spears  broke  and 
he  still  held  his  seat. 

He  now  drew  his  sword,  and  set  upon  them  with 
such  energy  that,  many  as  they  were,  he  put  them 
all  to  flight,  chasing  them  until  they  entered  the 
castle,  and  following  them  within  its  walls  till  they 
fled  from  the  castle  by  another  gate. 

Galahad  was  now  met  by  an  old  man,  clad  in 
religious  costume,  who  said  to  him, — 

"  Sir,  here  are  the  keys  of  the  castle." 

Then  the  victor  ordered  that  all  the  gates  should 
be  thrown  open,  and  in  the  streets  of  the  neighbor- 
ing town  were  crowds  of  people,  crying  gladly, — 

"  Sir  knight,  you  are  heartily  welcome.  Long 
have  we  waited  for  the  deliverance  which  you 
bring  us." 

And  a  gentlewoman  came,  who  said  to  him, — 

"These  knights  are  fled,  but  they  will  come 
again.  Therefore,  sir,  I  counsel  you  to  send  for 
all  the  knights  that  hold  their  lands  of  this  castle, 
and  make  them  swear  to  restore  the  old  customs, 
and  do  away  with  the  evil  practices  which  these 
villanous  knights  have  fostered." 

"That  is  good  counsel,"  said  Galahad. 

Then  she  brought  him  a  horn  of  ivory,  richly 
adorned  with  gold,  and  said, — 

"  Blow  this  horn  loudly.  It  will  be  heard  two 
miles  and  more  from  the  castle,  and  all  that  hear 
it  will  come." 

Galahad  took  the  horn,  and  blew  so  loud  a  blast 
that  the  very  trees  shook  therewith.  Then  he 
se£|ted  himself  and  waited  to  see  what  would  come 


154  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

from  the  summons.     As  he  sat  there  a  priest  came 
to  him  and  said, — 

"  Sir  knight,  for  seven  years  these  brethren  have 
held  the  castle,  whose  lord,  Duke  Lianor,  they 
killed,  and  held  his  daughter  prisoner;  and  by 
force  they  have  kept  all  the  knights  of  the  castle 
under  their  power,  and  have  acted  as  tyrants,  rob- 
bing the  common  people  of  all  they  had,  tind  taking 
tribute  and  demanding  service  from  all  the  country 
round.  Seven  years  ago  the  duke's  daughter  said 
to  them,  ^  You  shall,  not  hold  this  castle  for  many 
years,  for  by  one  knight  you  shall  be  overcome/ 
•  Say  you  so,'  they  replied.  ^  Then  shall  never 
knight  or  lady  pass  this  castle,  but  all  that  come 
shall  stay  or  lose  their  heads,  till  comes  that  knight 
of  whom  you  prophesy.'  Therefore  this  is  called 
the  Maidens'  Castle,  since  its  tyrants  have  so  long 
made  war  upon  maidens." 

"  Is  the  duke's  daughter  still  here  ?  " 

"No;  she  died  three  days  after  the  castle  was 
taken.  But  her  younger  sister  and  many  other 
ladies  are  held  prisoners." 

Soon  afterwards  the  knights  of  the  country  began 
to  flock  in,  in  response  to  the  bugle-call,  and  glad 
were  they  to  find  what  had  occurred.  Galahad 
made  them  do  homage  and  fealty  to  the  duke's 
daughter,  which  they  did  with  great  willingness 
of  heart. 

And  when  the  next  day  dawned  great  news  was 
brought  in,  for  a  messenger  came  to  Galahad  and 
told  him  that  the  seven  felon  brothers  had  been  met 
by  Gawaine,  Gareth,  and  Uwaine,  and  all  slain. 
So  ends  their  rule  and  power,"  said  Galahad, 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         155 

fervently.     "It  is  well  done,  and  well  are  all  here 
delivered." 

Then  he  commended  them  to  God,  and  took  his 
armor  and  horse,  and  rode  away  amid  the  prayers 
of  those  he  had  delivered. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCTVALB. 

Many  adventures  had  the  other  knights  that  set 
out  in  search  of  the  Sangreal,  and  much  reproof 
did  many  of  them  receive  for  the  evil  lives  they 
had  led ;  but  all  this  we  cannot  stop  to  tell,  but  must 
confine  ourselves  to  the  deeds  of  a  few  only.  As 
for  Sir  Gawaine,  he  parted  from  Gareth  and 
IJwaine  after  they  had  slain  the  seven  wicked 
knights  of  the  Castle  of  Maidens,  and  rode  from 
Whitsuntide  to  Michaelmas  without  an  adventure. 
Then  came  a  day  in  which  he  met  Sir  Hector  de 
Maris,  and  glad  were  both  at  the  meeting. 

"  Truly,"  said  Gawaine,  "  I  am  growing  weary 
of  this  quest." 

"  And  I  as  well,^'  said  Hector.  "  And  of  the 
twenty  knights  I  have  met  from  time  to  time,  they 
all  complain  as  we  do." 

Have  you  met  with  Lancelot  ?  " 
Xo,  nor  with  Percivale,  Bors,  or  Galahad.     I 
can  learn  nothing  of  these  four." 

"  They  are  well  able  to  take  care  of  themselves," 


156  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

said  Gawaine.  "  And  if  they  fail  to  find  the  San- 
greal,  it  is  waste  of  time  for  the  rest  of  us  to  seek 
it,  for  outside  of  them  there  is  little  virtue  in  the 
Bound  Table  fellowship/^ 

Afterwards  these  two  knights  went  far  in  com- 
pany, and  had  strange  dreams  and  visions,  the 
meaning  of  which  was  expounded  to  them  by  the 
hermit  Nancien.  This  holy  man  also  reproved 
Gawaine  severely  for  his  evil  life,  and  bade  both 
him  and  his  companion  to  give  up  the  search  for 
the  Sangreal,  as  that  high  achievement  was  not 
for  hands  like  theirs. 

Soon  after  they  met  an  armed  knight  in  the 
road,  who  proffered  to  joust  with  them.  Gawaine 
accepted  the  challenge,  and  rode  against  this  un- 
known opponent,  dealing  him  so  severe  a  blow  that 
he  was  hurled  from  his  horse  with  a  mortal  wound. 
But  when  they  had  removed  his  helmet,  what  was 
their  horror  to  find  that  it  was  their  friend,  and 
comrade,  Uwaine. 

"  Alas  I  ^^  cried  Gawaine,  "  that  such  a  fatal  mis- 
adventure should  have  befallen  me!  I  would 
sooner  have  died  myself." 

"Thus  ends  my  quest  of  the  Sangreal,'^  said 
Uwaine.  "  And  thus  will  end  that  of  many  a 
noble  knight.  Dear  friends,  commend  me  to  King 
Arthur,  and  to  my  fellows  of  the  Bound  Table,  and 
sometimes  think  of  me  for  old  brotherhood's  sake." 

And  he  died  in  their  arms,  leaving  them  plunged 
in  the  deepest  grief,  from  which  they  were  long  in 
recovering. 

Meanwhile  Lancelot  and  Percivale  rode  far  in 
company,    and    many    things   happened   to   them. 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         157 

While  journeying  through  a  strange  region  they 
met  an  unknown  knight,  whom  they  challenged 
to  joust.  But  the  event  turned  out  little  to  their 
satisfaction,  for  Lancelot  was  hurled  to  the  ground, 
horse  and  man,  and  Percivale  received  so  fierce  a 
sword-blow  that  he  would  have  been  slain  had  not 
the  sword  swerved. 

Then  the  victor  knight  rode  rapidly  away,  leav- 
ing them  to  recover  as  they  best  could.  But  a 
recluse  near  whose  hut  this  encounter  had  taken 
place  told  them  that  the  victor  was  Sir  Galahad. 
On  learning  this  they  pursued  him  at  all  speed, 
but  in  vain. 

Percivale  now  turned  back  to  question  the  re- 
cluse further,  but  Lancelot  kept  on,  passing  through 
waste  and  forest  till  he  came  to  a  stone  cross  at  the 
parting  of  two  ways. 

Near  by  was  a  ruined  chapel,  with  broken  door, 
and  other  signs  of  waste  and  decay,  if  it  had  been 
long  deserted.  But  when  he  looked  within  he  saw 
to  his  great  surprise  a  high  altar  richly  dressed 
with  cloth  of  white  silk,  on  which  stood  a  lofty 
candelabra  of  silver  which  bore  six  great  candles, 
all  lighted. 

Lancelot  sought  to  enter  the  chapel,  but  try  as 
he  would  he  could  not  pass  the  broken  door,  nor 
find  entrance  elsewhere.  Some  invisible  power 
seemed  to  stand  between  him  and  admission  to  that 
sacred  place. 

Then,  out  of  heart  at  this  ill  success,  he  took 
off  his  helm  and  sword,  relieved  his  horse  of  saddle 
and  bridle,  and  lay  down  to  sleep  before  the  cross. 
Night  came  upon  him  as  he  lay  there,  and  with 
the  night  came  strange  visions. 


168  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

For  as  he  lay  but  half  asleep  he  saw  a  sick  knight 
brought  thither  in  a  litter.  This  knight  prayed 
earnestly  for  aid  in  his  affliction,  and  as  he  did  so 
Lancelot  saw  the  silver  candlestick  come  from  the 
chapel  to  the  cross,  and  after  it  a  table  of  silver 
on  which  was  the  holy  grail.  The  sick  knight 
crawled  painfully  to  it  on  his  hands  and  knees, 
and  raised  himself  so  as  to  touch  and  kiss  the 
sacred  vessel.  No  sooner  had  he  done  so  than  he 
grew  whole  and  sound,  with  all  his  pain  and  sick- 
ness gone,  and  rose  to  his  feet  with  his  former 
strength  and  vigor. 

"Lord,  I  thank  thee  deeply,''  he  said;  "for 
through  thy  infinite  grace  I  am  healed  of  my  affic- 
tion.'^ 

Then  the  holy  vessel  returned  to  the  chapel,  and 
Lancelot  strove  hard  to  rise  and  follow  it.  But 
his  limbs  were  powerless,  and  he  lay  like  one  chained 
to  the  ground. 

He  now  fell  into  deep  slumber,  and  waked  not 
till  near  morning.  And  as  he  raised  himself  and 
sat  on  the  ground  he  heard  a  voice  in  the  air,  that 
seemed  to  come  from  no  earthly  lips. 

"  Sir  Lancelot,^'  it  said,  "  more  hard  than  is  the 
stone,  more  bitter  than  the  wood,  more  bare  than 
the  barren  fig-tree,  arise  and  go  from  hence,  and 
withdraw  thyself  from  this  holy  place." 

Lancelot  arose  with  a  heavy  heart,  for  the  sense 
of  these  words  sank  deeply  within  him.  But  when 
he  sought  his  horse  and  helm  and  sword  he  found 
they  were  gone,  for  they  had  been  taken  by  the 
knight  whose  healing  he  had  seen. 

Deeply  depressed  and  unhappy  at  this  misfor- 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         159 

tune,  he  left  the  cross  on  foot,  and  wandered  on- 
ward till  he  came  to  a  hermitage  on  a  high  hill. 

Here  he  told  the  hermit  what  had  happened  to 
him,  and  confessed  all  the  evil  deeds  of  his  life, 
saying  that  he  had  resolved  to  be  a  different  man 
from  what  he  had  been,  and  to  live  a  higher  life 
than  that  of  doing  deeds  of  arms  that  men  might 
applaud. 

Then  the  holy  man  gave  him  absolution,  with 
injunctions  of  penance,  and  prayed  that  he  would 
abide  with  him  all  that  day.  This  Lancelot  did, 
talking  much  with  him  upon  his  sins,  and  repent- 
ing sincerely  the  worldly  life  he  had  led. 

Meanwhile  Percival  had  returned  to  the  recluse, 
and  questioned  her  as  to  how  he  should  find  Gala- 
had. 

"  That  I  cannot  surely  tell,"  she  said.  "  Bide 
hence  to  a  castle  which  is  called  Goothe,  where  he 
has  a  cousin-german.  If  he  can  give  you  no  tid- 
ings, then  ride  straight  to  the  castle  Carbonek, 
where  the  maimed  king  lies,  and  there  you  shall 
hear  sure  tidings  of  him." 

Percivale,  leaving  her,  rode  onward  till  eventide, 
and  as  he  looked  around  him  for  shelter  he  heard 
a  clock  strike  loud  and  clear.  He  now  perceived 
before  him  a  mansion,  with  lofty  walls  and  deep 
ditches.  Here  he  knocked  loudly,  and  was  let  in 
without  delay. 

After  laying  off  his  armor,  he  was  led  to  the  sup- 
per hall,  where  he  was  well  served,  and  afterwards 
spent  the  night  in  comfort.  When  morning  dawned 
he  entered  the  chapel  for  the  mass,  and  found 
there  a  priest  ready  at  the  altar.     On  the  right 


160  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

side  was  a  pew  closed  with  iron,  and  behind  the 
altar  a  rich  bed,  covered  with  cloth  of  silk  and 
gold.  On  this  bed  lay  a  person  with  covered  visage, 
so  that  he  could  not  tell  if  it  were  man  or  woman. 

After  the  service  was  over  the  occupant  of  the 
bed  sat  up  and  threw  back  the  covering,  and  then 
Percivale  saw  that  it  was  a  man  of  very  great  age, 
on  whose  head  was  a  crown  of  gold.  But  his 
shoulders  and  body  to  the  middle  were  unclad,  and 
were  covered  with  wounds,  as  were  also  his  arms 
and  face. 

To  all  seeming  he  might  have  been  three  hundred 
years  of  age,  for  so  venerable  a  face  Percivale  had 
never  gazed  upon,  and  as  he  sat  up  he  prayed  fer- 
vently, with  joined  hands.  T\Tien  the  mass  was 
over  the  priest  bore  the  sacrament  to  the  sick  king. 
And  when  he  had  used  it,  he  took  off  his  crown 
and  commanded  it  to  be  set  on  the  altar.  Then  he 
lay  down  again. 

Percivale  now  asked  one  of  the  attendants  who 
this  venerable  man  was. 

"  You  have  heard  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea/'  was 
the  reply,  "  and  how  he  came  into  this  land  to 
convert  the  heathen.  With  him  came  a  king  named 
Evelake,  whom  he  had  converted  in  the  city  of 
Sarras,  in  Palestine.  This  king  afterwards  had 
an  earnest  desire  to  be  where  the  Sangreal  was,  and 
on  one  occasion  he  ventured  so  nigh  it  that  God 
was  displeased  with  him,  and  struck  him  almost 
blind.  Then  King  Evelake  prayed  for  mercy  and 
pardon,  and  begged  that  he  might  not  die  until 
he  who  was  to  achieve  the  Sangreal  should  come, 
that  he  might  see  him  and  kiss  him.     There  an- 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         161 

swered  him  a  voice  that  said :  ^  Thy  prayers  are 
heard;  thou  shalt  not  die  till  he  has  kissed  thee. 
And  when  he  comes  thy  eyes  sh^ll  be  opened  to  see 
clearly,  and  thy  wounds  shall  be  healed;  but  not 
until  then/  So  King  Evelake  has  lived  in  this 
mansion  for  three  hundred  winters,  waiting  for 
the  coming  of  the  knight  who  shall  heal  him. 
Now,  sir,  will  you  tell  me  what  knight  you  are, 
and  if  you  are  of  the  Eound  Table  fellowship  ? '' 

"That  am  I,  and  my  name  is  Percivale  de 
Galis/' 

On  hearing  this  the  good  man  welcomed  Per- 
civale warmly,  and  pressed  him  to  remain.  But 
the  knight  replied  that  he  could  not,  for  his  duty 
led  him  onward. 

Percivale  now  left  the  chapel,  and,  arming  him- 
self, he  took  his  horse  and  rode  onward.  And 
that  day  more  strange  things  happened  to  him  than 
we  have  space  to  tell.  Not  far  had  he  ridden  when 
he  met  twenty  men-at-arms,  who  bore  on  a  bier  a 
dead  knight.  On  learning  that  he  was  from  King 
Arthur's  court,  they  assailed  him  fiercely,  killed 
his  horse,  and  would  have  slain  him;  but  when  he 
was  at  the  worst  strait  a  knight  in  red  armor  came 
hastily  to  his  rescue,  and  rode  fiercely  on  the 
assailants. 

He  attacked  these,  indeed,  with  such  fury  that 
many  of  them  were  soon  stretched  on  the  ground; 
while  the  others  fled  into  a  thick  forest,  whither 
they  were  hotly  pursued  by  their  assailant. 

On  seeing  him  thus  ride  away,   Percivale  was 
deeply  grieved,  for  he  well  knew  his  rescuer  was 
Galahad,  and  he  had  no  horse  to  follow  him. 
ii-ii 


162  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

He  went  forward  as  fast  as  he  could  on  foot,  and 
had  not  gone  far  when  he  met  a  yeoman  riding  on 
a  hackney,  and  leading  a  great  war-horse,  blacker 
than  any  bear. 

Percivale  begged  that  he  would  lend  him  this 
horse,  that  he  might  overtake  a  knight  before  him. 
But  this  the  yeoman  refused,  saying  that  the  owner 
of  the  horse  would  slay  him  if  he  should  do  so. 

Not  long  afterwards,  as  Percivale  sat  woebegone 
beneath  a  tree,  an  armed  knight  came  riding  past 
on  the  black  horse,  pursued  by  the  yeoman,  who 
called  him  robber,  and  moaned  bitterly  that  his 
master  would  kill  him  for  the  loss  of  his  charge. 

"Lend  me  your  hackney,^'  said  Percivale;  "I 
may  get  you  your  horse  again." 

This  the  yeoman  gladly  did,  and  Percivale  pur- 
sued the  robber  knight,  loudly  bidding  him  to 
stand  and  deliver. 

The  knight  at  this  turned  and  rode  fiercely  upon 
him,  but  directed  his  spear  against  the  horse  instead 
of  the  rider,  striking  it  in  the  breast,  so  that  it 
fell  to  the  earth. 

He  now  rode  away,  without  heeding  Percivale^s 
angry  demand  that  he  should  stop  and  fight  it  out 
on  foot.  When  the  dismounted  knight  found  that 
his  antagonist  would  not  turn,  he  was  so  filled 
with  chagrin  that  he  threw  away  his  helm  and 
sword,  and  raved  like  one  out  of  his  wits.  Thus 
he  continued  till  night  came  on,  when  he  lay  down 
exhausted  and  foil  into  a  deep  slumber. 

Near  the  midnight  hour  he  suddenly  awakened, 
and  saw  in  the  road  before  him  a  woman,  who 
said, — 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         163 


"  Sir  Percivale,  what  do  you  here  ?  ^' 
"  I  do  neither  good  nor  ill,"  he  replied. 
"  You  need  a  horse,"  she  said.     "  If  you  will 
promise  to  do  my  will  when  I  shall  summon  you, 
I  will  lend  you  mine.     You  will  find  him  no  com- 


mon one." 


"  I  promise  that,"  cried  Percivale.  "  I  would 
do  much  for  a  horse  just  now." 

"  Wait,  then ;  I  shall  fetch  you  the  noblest  animal 
you  ever  bestrode." 

She  departed,  but  quickly  came  again,  leading 
a  horse  of  midnight  blackness,  and  richly  apparelled 
for  knightly  service. 

Percivale  looked  at  it  with  admiration.  He  had 
not  hoped  for  so  great  and  noble  a  steed  as  this. 
Thanking  her  warmly,  he  sprang  to  his  feet,  leaped 
to  the  saddle,  and  put  spurs  to  the  horse,  from 
whose  nostrils  fire  seemed  to  glare. 

Away  wont  the  black  horse  under  the  moonlight, 
making  such  marvellous  strides  that  it  seemed  to 
leave  the  earth  behind  it  in  its  magical  progress. 
With  such  wondrous  speed  did  it  go  that  in  an 
hour  it  had  made  a  four  days'  journey.  Then  it 
came  to  the  brink  of  a  great  body  of  water,  whose 
waves  foamed  and  leaped  boisterously  against  the 
shore. 

When  Percivale  saw  the  heaving  waves,  which 
stretched  far  away  under  the  moonlight,  he  drew 
with  all  his  force  upon  the  rein;  but  the  fiendish 
brute  which  he  rode  heeded  not  his  hand,  but  bore 
him  madly  to  the  brink.  Fear  and  doubt  now 
filled  the  knight's  mind,  and  with  a  hasty  impulse 
he  made  the  sign  of  the  cross.     At  this  the  beast 


164  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

roared  loudly  in  rage,  while  flame  a  foot  long 
poured  from  its  nostrils,  and  with  a  wild  rear  it 
shook  off  its  rider,  and  plunged  madly  into  the 
wild  billows.  And  the  showering  drops  which  fell 
upon  Percivale  from  the  plunge  burnt  like  sparks 
of  fire. 

"God  be  thanked  that  I  am  here  alive,"  cried 
the  knight,  fervently.  "  I  have  ridden  the  foul 
fiend  in  the  image  of  a  horse,  and  barely  have  I 
escaped  perdition.^' 

Then  he  commended  himself  to  God,  and  prayed 
earnestly  to  the  Lord  to  save  him  from  all  such 
perils'  and  temptations.  He  continued  in  prayer 
all  the  remainder  of  that  night  until  the  next  day 
dawned  upon  the  earth. 

When  sunrise  came  he  looked  heedfully  about 
him,  anxious  to  learn  whither  he  had  been  borne 
by  the  unholy  brute.  To  his  surprise  and  alarm 
he  found  himself  in  a  wild  waste,  which  was  closed 
in  on  one  side  by  the  sea,  and  on  the  other  by  a 
range  of  rough  and  high  mountains,  impassable 
to  human  feet;  a  land  that  seemed  without  food 
or  shelter,  and  the  lurking-place  of  wild  beasts. 

Tie  trembled  with  fear  on  seeing  this,  and  went 
forward  with  doubtful  steps.  Not  far  had  he  gone 
before  he  saw  a  strange  thing,  for  a  great  serpent 
passed  near  him,  bearing  a  young  lion  by  the  neck. 
Fiercely  after  it  came  a  great  lion,  roaring  with 
rage,  and  fell  upon  the  serpent,  which  turned  in 
defence,  so  that  a  mighty  battle  was  waged  before 
the  knight. 

"  Bv  mv  faith,''  he  cried,  "  the  lion  is  the  most 
natural  beast  of  the  two,  and  it  fights  for  its  young. 
The  lion  it  is  my  duty  to  help." 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         165 

He  drew  his  sword  with  these  words  and  struck 
the  serpent  so  fierce  a  stroke  that  it  fell  dead. 
Then  he  turned  his  shield  against  the  lion,  but  as 
the  latter  made  no  show  of  fighting  him,  but  fawned 
upon  him  with  every  mark  of  joy  and  gratitude, 
he  cast  down  his  shield  and  removed  his  helm, 
and  sat  there  stroking  the  neck  and  shoulders  of 
the  beast. 

Until  noon  he  comforted  himself  with  the  fel- 
lowship of  the  lion.  Then  it  took  up  its  whelp 
and  bore  it  away,  leaving  Percivale  alone.  But  he 
was  not  unhappy,  for  he  believed  fervently  in  God, 
and  prayed  with  all  earnestness  that  he  might  be 
saved  from  unholy  things,  and  chosen  as  a  cham- 
pion of  right  and  truth. 

When  night  came,  Percivale,  to  his  joy,  saw  the 
lion  coming  towards  him.  It  crouched  at  his  feet 
like  a  spaniel,  and  all  that  night  the  lion  and  the 
knight  slept  in  company,  his  head  being  pillowed 
on  the  shoulder  of  the  beast. 

But  during  the  night  a  strange  dream  came  to 
him.  He  seemed  to  see  two  women,  one  of  whom 
was  young,  and  rode  upon  a  lion,  and  the  other 
was  old,  and  sat  upon  a  gliding  serpent.  And  the 
younger  spoke  to  him  as  follows, — 

"  Sir  Percivale,"  she  said,  "  my  lord  salutes  you, 
and  sends  a  warning  to  you  to  make  ready,  for  to- 
morrow you  will  have  to  fight  with  the  strongest 
champion  in  the  world.  And  if  overcome  you 
will  be  shamed  to  the  world^s  end." 

''  Who  is  your  lord  ?  "   he  asked. 

"The  greatest  lord  in  all  the  world,"  she  said; 
and  then  suddenly  vanished. 


166  THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Then  came  the  lady  upon  the  serpent,  and  said, — 

"  Sir  Percivale,  I  have  done  you  no  harm,  and 
yet  you  have  worked  me  injury." 

"  What  have  I  done  ?  I  have  been  always  heed- 
ful to  offend  no  lady/' 

"  I  have  long  nourished  here  a  great  serpent, 
and  yesterday  you  killed  it  for  seeking  its  prey. 
Why  did  you  this?  The  lion  was  not  in  your 
care.'' 

"  I  aided  the  lion  because  it  was  a  nobler  beast 
than  the  serpent.  In  that  I  did  nothing  against 
you." 

"  You  did  me  a  great  wrong,  and  in  return  for 
this  injury  I  demand  that  you  become  my  man." 

"  That  shall  I  never  be,"  he  answered. 

"Beware,  then,  proud  knight,  who  pride  your- 
self on  your  piety.  You  have  robbed  me  of  that 
which  I  loved;  take  heed  that  I  catch  you  not 
unawares,  or  mine  you  shall  be,  body  and  soul." 

With  these  words  she  departed,  and  Percivale 
finished  his  sleep  without  further  vision.  In  the 
morning,  when  he  awoke,  he  felt  feeble.  And  as 
he  rose  and  blessed  himself  he  saw  not  far  off  in 
the  sea  a  ship  that  sailed  towards  him.  As  it  came 
near  he  perceived  it  to  be  covered  within  and  with- 
out with  white  samite,  while  on  the  deck  stood  an 
old  man  dressel  in  a  surplice  like  a  priest. 

"  Sir,"  said  Percivale,  "  you  are  welcome." 

"  God  keep  you,"  said  the  old  man ;  "  whence 
come  you  ?  " 

"  I  am  of  King  Arthur's  court,  and  a  Knight  of 
the  Eound  Table,  and  am  in  quest  of  the  Sangreal. 
But  here  I  find  mvself  in  a  wilderness,  with  no 
hope  of  escape.' 


?> 


THE  TEMPTATION  OF  SIR  PERCIVALE.         167 


"  Doubt  not,  if  you  be  a  true  knight/^ 

"  Who  are  you  ?  ^^   asked  Percivale. 

"  I  have  come  hither  from  a  strange  country  to 
comfort  you/'  said  the  old  man. 

"  Then,  sir,  can  you  tell  me  what  my  dream 
signifies  ?  ''  and  Percivale  related  what  had  befallen 
him. 

"  That  can  I,"  said  the  old  man.  "  She  that  rode 
on  the  lion  betokens  the  new  law  of  holy  church, 
and  she  came  through  love,  to  warn  you  of  the 
great  battle  that  is  before  you.'' 

"  With  whom  shall  I  fight  ?  "   asked  Percivale. 

"  With  the  strongest  champion  of  the  world,  and 
if  you  fail  in  the  fight  you  shall  not  escape  with  the 
loss  of  a  limb,  but  shall  be  shamed  to  the  world's 
end.  As  for  her  that  rode  on  the  serpent,  she 
betokens  the  old  law.  Heed  her  not.  The  serpent 
you  slew  betokens  the  devil  that  you  rode  hither, 
and  whom  you  overcame  by  the  sign  of  the  cross. 
Yield  not  to  her  or  any  of  her  kindred,  or  worse 
will  befall  you." 

Then  the  ship  turned  and  sailed  away,  leaving 
Percivale  again  alone.  But  when  he  went  up  the 
rocks  he  found  there  the  lion,  which  he  stroked 
and  made  joyful  fellowship  with. 

And  thus  time  went  on  till  midday.  Then  Per- 
civale saw  a  ship  approaching  with  such  speed  as 
if  all  the  winds  in  the  world  had  driven  it.  On 
it  kept  till  it  reached  land  at  the  beach  below  him. 
He  hurried  hopefully  to  meet  it,  and  saw  that  it 
was  covered  with  black  silk,  while  on  the  deck 
stood  a  lady  of  great  beauty,  who  was  dressed  in  the 
richest  apparel. 


168  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

"  What  brought  you  into  this  wilderness  ?  ^^  she 
cried  to  the  knight.  "  Here  you  are  likely  to  die 
of  hunger,  for  no  man  may  cross  yonder  rocks 
and  escape.^' 

"  I  serve  the  best  master  in  the  world,"  said 
Percivale.     "  He  will  not  suffer  harm  to  come  to 


me." 


a 


Sir   Percivale,"  said   she,   "  know  you   who   I 


amr 


'?'' 


(C 


Who  taught  you  my  name  ?  "  he  answered. 
I   know  you  better  than  you  deem,"  she  re- 
plied, laughing.     "  This  much  I  may  tell  you,  that 
not  long  since  I  was  in  the  waste  forest,  where  I 
saw  the  red  knight  with  the  white  shield." 

"Ah!  is  that  so?  Fain  would  I  meet  with 
him." 

"  I  shall  bring  you  to  him ;  but  only  on  cove- 
nant that  you  will  come  to  my  aid  when  I  summon 
you." 

"  If  it  be  in  reason  and  uprightness,  you  may 
trust  me,"  he  replied. 

"  I  saw  him,"  she  continued,  "  chase  two  knights 
into  the  stream  that  is  called  Mortaise,  and  follow 
them  into  the  water.  But  they  passed  over,  and 
his  horse  was  drowned,  and  only  by  his  great 
strength  he  got  safe  to  land  again." 

"That  I  am  very  glad  to  hear.  It  would  have 
been  a  sad  day  had  that  good  knight  been  drowned." 

"  You  look  pale  and  thin,"  she  remarked.  "  Have 
you  eaten  lately?" 

"  Not  these  three  days,"  he  answered.  "  Yet  I 
spoke  of  late  with  a  good  man,  whose  words  re- 
freshed me  as  if  I  had  partaken  of  rich  viands." 


THE  TEMPTATION  OP  SIR  PERCIVALE.         169 

"  Ah,  sir  knight,"  she  said,  "  beware  of  that  old 
man.  I  know  him  better  than  you.  He  is  a  false 
enchanter,  who  seeks  your  harm.  If  you  heed  his 
words  shame  will  be  your  lot,  and  you  will  die  on 
this  rock  and  be  devoured  by  wild  beasts.  I  am 
here  to  help  you  in  your  need,  for  I  am  not  content 
to  see  so  good  a  knight  come  to  harm  and  disgrace.'^ 

"Who  are  you,"  asked  Percivale,  "that  proffer 
me  so  great  a  kindness  ?  " 

"  Once  I  was  the  richest  woman  in  the  world," 
she  answered.  "  Now  I  am  disinherited  and  in 
want." 

"Then  I  pity  you  greatly.  Who  is  it  that  has 
disinherited  vou  ?  " 

"I  dwelt  with  the  greatest  man  in  the  world," 
she  answered,  "  and  to  him  I  owe  my  beauty, — a 
beauty  of  which  I  was,  alas!  too  proud.  Then  I 
said  that  which  offended  him  deeply,  and  he  drove 
me  away  from  him,  and  robbed  me  of  my  heritage, 
and  has  never  since  had  pity  for  me  nor  for  my 
friends.  Since  this  has  happened  I  have  done  my 
best  to  wean  his  men  from  him,  and  many  of  them 
now  cling  to  me,  and  I  and  they  war  against  him 
day  and  night.  I  know  no  good  knight,  nor  good 
man,  but  that  I  strive  to  win  him  to  mv  side,  and 
all  such  I  repay  well  for  their  services.  For  he 
against  whom  I  wage  war  is  strong,  and  I  need 
all  the  aid  to  be  had.  Therefore,  since  I  know 
you  for  a  valiant  knight,  I  beseech  you  to  help 
me.  A  fellow  of  the  Round  Table  cannot,  under 
his  vow,  fail  any  woman  that  is  disinherited,  and 
that  seeks  his  aid." 


170  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

"That  is  true,  indeed,"  said  Pereivale,  "and  I 
shall  do  all  I  can  for  ydu." 

"  You  have  my  earnest  thanks/'  she  said. 

Then,  as  the  weather  was  hot,  she  called  some 
of  her  attendants,  and  bade  them  bring  a  pavilion 
and  set  it  up  on  the  gravel  near  the  sea-line. 

"  Sir  knight,"  she  said,  "  I  pray  you  to  rest  here 
in  the  heat  of  the  day,  while  my  attendants  prepare 
food  for  you.'' 

He  thanked  her  and  laid  aside  his  helm  and 
shield,  and  fell  asleep  within  the  pavilion,  where 
he  slumbered  long.  \\Tien  he  awoke  he  asked  her 
if  the  food  was  ready. 

"  Yes,"  she  answered ;  "  I  have  worked  while 
you  slumbered." 

Then  a  table  was  set  within  the  pavilion,  and 
covered  with  a  rich  array  of  meats  and  drinks, 
of  which  Pereivale  ate  with  great  appetite,  while 
the  lady  sat  opposite  him  with  a  very  gracious 
aspect.  The  wine  he  drank  was  the  strongest  that 
had  ever  passed  his  lips,  and  its  strength  soon  got 
into  his  veins  and  heated  his  brain. 

The  lady  now  smiled  graciously  upon  him,  and 
it  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  never  beheld  so  fair 
a  creature.  Tier  beauty  so  worked  upon  his  heated 
blood,  indeed,  that  he  proffered  her  his  love,  and 
prayed  earnestly  for  hers  in  return. 

When  she  saw  his  loving  ardor,  and  that  the 
wine  worked  like  fire  in  his  blood,  she  said,  with 
a  smile  of  witchery, — 

"  Sir  Pereivale,  if  I  become  yours,  you  must  be- 
come mine.  T  shall  not  grant  you  my  love  unless 
you  swear  that  henceforth   you  will  be   my   true 


THE  TEMPTATION  OP  SIR  PEftCIVALE.         171 

servant,  and  do  nothing  but  what  I  shall  command. 
Will  you  thus  bind  yourself,  as  you  are  a  true 
knight  ? '' 

"  That  will  I,  fair  lady,  by  the  faith  of  my  body/' 

"  Then  this  I  will  say,  that  of  all  the  knights 
in  the  world  you  are  he  whom  I  most  love.  And 
you  may  seal  upon  my  lips  the  compact  we  have 
made.^^ 

But  when  Percivale  came  towards  her,  to  claim 
the  proffered  kiss,  which  she  offered  with  such 
bewitching  grace,  by  chance  or  through  God's  aid 
he  saw  his  sword,  which  lay  on  the  ground  at  his 
feet,  and  in  its  pommel  a  red  cross,  with  the  sign 
of  the  crucifix  therein.  Then  came  to  his  mind  the 
promise  he  had  made  to  the  old  man,  and  his 
knightly  vows,  and  with  a  pious  impulse  he  raised 
his  hand  and  made  the  sign. of  the  cross  on  his  fore- 
head, the  while  his  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  lovely 
face  of  the  tempter  before  him. 

As  he  did  so  her  smile  changed  to  a  look  of 
deadly  hate,  and  the  loveliness  of  her  face  to  a 
hideous  aspect,  while  in  the  same  moment  the  pavil- 
ion fell  as  before  a  great  wind,  and  then  vanished 
in  smoke  and  cloud. 

Over  the  sea  the  wind  rose  and  roared,  and  as 
he  looked  he  saw  the  ship  battling  with  heaving 
waves,  while  the  water  seemed  to  burn  behind  it. 
On  the  deck  stood  the  lady,  who  cried, — 

"  Sir  Percivale,  you  have  betrayed  me !  Beware, 
proud  knight,  I  shall  have  my  revenge.^'  Then 
the  ship  drove  out  to  sea,  and  vanished  from  his 
sight. 

But  in  a  passion  of  remorse  Percivale  snatched 


172  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

up  the  sword  that  lay  before  him,  and  crying, 
"  Since  my  flesh  has  been  my  master  I  will  punish 
it/'  he  drove  the  naked  blade  through  his  thigh, 
till  the  blood  spouted  out  like  a  fountain. 

"  Wretch  that  I  am,  how  nearly  was  I  lost !  " 
he  cried,  in  a  torment  of  conscience.  "  Fair  sweet 
Father,  Jesus  Christ  my  Lord,  let  me  not  be  shamed, 
as  I  would  now  have  been  but  for  thy  good  grace. 
Take  this  wound  in  recompense  for  what  I  have 
done  against  thee,  and  forgive  me  my  deep  trans- 
gression, I  humbly  pray  thee.'' 

But  as  he  lay  moaning  and  bleeding  the  wild 
winds  went  down  and  the  sea  grew  smooth,  while 
he  saw  coming  from  the  Orient  the  ship  with  the 
good  man,  on  board,  on  beholding  whom  he  fell  into 
a  swoon. 

When  he  awoke  he  found  that  his  wound  had 
been  dressed  and  the  bleeding  stopped.  Beside  him 
sat  the  good  man,  who  asked  him, — 

"  How  hast  thou  done  since  I  departed  ?  " 

"Weakly  and  wickedly  enough,"  he  answered. 
"  A  witch  beguiled  me,  and  I  nearly  fell  a  victim 
to  her  wiles." 

'^  Knew  you  her  not  ?  " 

"  Only  that  I  deem  the  foul  fiend  sent  her  here 
to  shame  me." 

"  Worse  than  that,  good  knight.  Your  victory 
is  greater  than  you  deem.  That  seeming  woman 
who  deceived  you  was  no  less  an  adversary  than 
the  master-fiend  of  hell,  who  has  power  over  all 
the  lesser  devils,  and,  had  you  yielded  you  had 
been  lost  forever.  For  this  is  the  mighty  cham- 
pion against  whom  you  were  forwamed;    he  who 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    173 

was  once  the  brightest  angel  of  heaven,  and  was 
driven  out  l)y  our  Lord  Christ  for  his  sins,  and 
thus  lost  his  heritage.  But  that  the  grace  of  God 
was  on  your  side  you  would  have  fallen  before 
this  champion  of  evil.  Take  this.  Sir  Percivale, 
as  a  warning  and  an  example." 

With  these  words  the  good  man  vanished  away. 
Then  the  mariners  carried  the  wounded  knight 
on  board  their  ship,  and  set  sail,  bearing  him 
rapidly  away  from  that  scene  of  temptation  and 
victory. 


6C 
66 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS. 

When  Sir  Bors  parted  from  his  companions,  on 
the  quest  of  the  Sangreal,  not  far  had  he  gone 
when  he  met  a  religious  man  riding  on  an  ass, 
whom  he  courteously  saluted. 

Who  are  you  ?  "  asked  the  good  man. 
I  am  one  of  those  knights  who  have  set  out  in 
quest  of  the  Sangreal,"  said  Bors.     "  I  would  fain 
have   your   counsel   in  this   high   duty,   for  great 
honor  shall  come  to  him  who  succeeds  therein." 

"That  is  true,"  said  the  good  man.  "He  that 
wins  the  Sangreal  will  be  counted  the  best  knight 
and  the  purest  soul  among  men.  None  can  hope 
to  attain  it  except  through  cleanness  of  spirit." 

Then  they  rode  together  till  they  came  to  a 
hermitage.     Here  Bors  went  into  the  chapel  with 


174  THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

his  companion,  and  confessed  to  him,  and  ate  bread 
and  drank  water  with  him. 

"  Now,"  said  the  good  man,  "  I  charge  you  that 
you  take  no  other  food  than  bread  and  water  till 
you  sit  at  the  table  where  the  Sangreal  shall  be." 

"  To  that  I  agree.  But  how  know  you  that  I 
shall  ever  sit  there  ?  " 

"I  know  it,  let  that  suffice;  but  few  of  your 
comrades  shall  have  that  honor." 

"All  that  God  sends  me  will  be  welcome,"  said 
Bors. 

"Also,  instead  of  a  shirt,  and  in  token  of  chas- 
tisement, you  shall  wear  this  garment,"  and  the 
good  man  produced  a  scarlet  coat,  which  Bors 
promised  to  wear  next  his  skin  till  the  Sangreal 
should  be  won. 

Then,  after  further  wholesome  advice,  he  re- 
sumed his  armor  and  departed.  He  had  gone  but 
a  little  way  from  the  hermitage  when  he  passed  a 
tree  that  was  little  more  than  an  old  and  leafless 
trunk,  and  on  one  of  its  boughs  he  saw  a  great  bird, 
surrounded  by  young  that  were  nearly  dead  with 
hunger.  As  he  continued  to  look  at  this  strange 
sight,  the  bird  smote  itself  in  the  breast  with  its 
sharp  beak,  and  bled  till  it  died  among  its  young. 
Then  the  young  birds  fed  on  their  mother's  blood, 
and  were  revived  thereby. 

This  to  Bors  seemed  full  of  deep  significance, 
and  he  pondered  deeply  upon  it  as  he  rode  onward. 
By  even-song  he  found  himself  near  a  strong  and" 
high  tower,  where  he  asked  shelter  for  the  night, 
and  was  hospitably  welcomed. 

When  he  had  disarmed  he  was  led  to  a  richly 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    175 

furnished  apartment,  where  he  found  a  young  and 
fair  lady,  who  welcomed  him  gladly  to  her  tower, 
and  invited  him  to  take  supper  with  her. 

The  table  was  set  with  rich  meats  and  many 
dainties,  but  Bors  forgot  not  the  hermit's  charge, 
and  bade  an  attendant  to  bring  him  water.  In 
this  he  sopped  bread  and  ate  it. 

"  How  is  this  ?  ^'  asked  the  lady  in  surprise. 
'^  Like  you  not  my  meat  ?  " 

"  Truly  I  do,  madam ;  yet  I  may  eat  no  other 
food  this  day.'' 

Then  the  lady  was  silent,  for  she  feared  to  dis- 
please him  by  questioning.  After  supper,  while 
they  sat  talking,  a  squire  came,  who  said, — 

"  Madam,  you  know  well  what  is  set  for  to- 
morrow. You  must  provide  a  champion  to  fight 
in  your  quarrel  against  Pridam  le  Noire,  or  your 
sister  will  have  this  castle  and  all  your  lands." 

"  I  know  that,"  she  said,  with  a  deep  sigh.  "  May 
God  save  me  from  being  robbed,  for  I  see  no  earthly 
aid.'^ 

Her  sorrow  touched  Bors,  who  asked,- — 

"  What  means  this,  madam  ?  " 

"  Sir,"  she  said,  "  I  shall  tell  you.  There  was 
formerly  a  king  named  Aniause,  who  owned  all 
these  lands.  By  chance  he  loved  my  sister,  who 
is  much  older  than  I, — and  much  wickeder  also,  I 
fear.  He  gave  her  this  land  to  govern;  but  she 
brought  into  it  many  evil  customs,  and  caused  the 
death  of  many  of  his  kinsmen.  When  the  king 
saw  how  vilely  she  governed,  he  drove  her  away, 
and  put  me  over  this  district.  But  he  is  now  dead, 
and  she  is  making  war  on  me,  and  has  destroyed 


176  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

many  of  my  men,  and  turned  others  from  me, 
so  that  I  have  little  left  but  this  tower,  and  the 
few  men  that  guard  it.  Even  this  she  now  threat- 
ens to  take  from  me,  unless  I  can  find  a  knight 
to  fight  her  champion,  who  will  appear  before  my 
gates  to-morrow." 

"  Is  it  so  ?  "  said  Bors.  "  Who  is  this  Pridam  le 
Noire?" 

"  He  is  the  most  stalwart  knight  in  this  country, 
and  has  no  equal  among  us." 

"Madam,"  said  Bors,  "you  have  given  me  shel- 
ter; in  return  I  shall  aid  vou  as  far  as  I  can  in 
your  trouble.  You  may  send  word  that  you  have 
found  a  knight  who  will  fight  with  this  Pridam 
the  Black,  in  God's  quarrel  and  yours." 

"  Then  may  God's  blessing  rest  upon  you,"  she 
cried,  gladly.  And  word  was  sent  out  that  she 
had  found  a  champion  who  would  take  on  himself 
her  quarrel. 

That  evening  she  did  what  lay  in  her  power  to 
make  Bors  welcome,  and  sent  him  at  bedtime  to 
a  chamber  whose  bed  was  soft  as  down,  and  spread 
with  silken  coverings. 

But  in  no  bed  would  he  rest,  but  laid  himself 
on  the  floor,  as  he  had  vowed  to  do  till  he  found 
the  Sangreal. 

As  he  lay  there  asleep  there  came  to  him  a  vision. 
He  seemed  to  see  two  birds,  one  white  as  a  swan, 
the  other  of  smaller  size,  and  shaped  like  a  raven, 
with  plumage  of  inky  blackness.  The  white  bird 
came  to  him  and  said,  "  If  thou  wilt  give  me  meat 
and  serve  me,  I  shall  give  thee  all  the  riches  of 
the  world,  and  maJce  thee  as  fair  and  white  as  I 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    177 

am/'  Then  the  white  bird  departed,  and  the  black 
bird  came  and  said,  "  I  beg  that  you  will  serve  me 
to-morrow,  and  hold  me  in  no  despite;  for  this  I 
tell  you,  that  my  blackness  will  avail  you  more 
than  the  other's  whiteness/'  And  this  bird,  too, 
departed. 

But  his  dream  continued,  and  he  seemed  to  come 
to  a  great  place,  that  looked  like  a  chapel.  Here 
he  saw  on  the  left  side  a  chair,  which  was  worm- 
eaten  and  feeble.  And  on  the  right  hand  were 
two  flowers  of  the  shape  of  a  lily,  and  one  would 
have  taken  the  whiteness  from  the  other  but  that 
a  good  man  separated  them,  and  would  not  let 
them  touch.  And  out  of  each  came  many  flowers 
and  plentiful  fruit.  Then  the  good  man  said, 
"Would  not  he  act  with  great  folly  that  should 
let  these  two  flowers  perish  to  succor  the  rotten 
tree,  and  keep  it  from  falling  ? "  "  Sir,''  said  the 
dreamer,  "it  seems  to  me  that  the  flower  is  of 
more  value  than  the  wood."  "Then  take  heed 
that  vou  never  choose  the  false  for  the  true." 

With  this  Bors  awoke,  and  made  the  sign  of 
the  cross  on  his  forehead,  and  then  rose  and  dressed. 
When  he  had  come  to  the  lady  she  saluted  him, 
and  led  him  to  a  chapel,  where  they  heard  the 
morning  service.  Quickly  afterwards  there  came 
a  company  of  knights  that  the  lady  had  sent  for,  to 
lead  her  champion  to  battle.  After  he  had  armed, 
she  begged  him  to  take  some  strengthening  food. 

"  Nay,  madam,"  he  answered,  "  that  I  shall  not 
do  till  I  have  fought  this  battle,  in  which  I  ask 
but  God's  grace  to  aid  me." 

This  said,  he  sprang  upon  his  horse,  and  set  out 

11-12 


178  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL.. 

with  the  knights  and  men,  closely  followed  by  the 
lady  and  her  train.  They  soon  came  to  where  the 
other  party  were  encamped,  and  with  them  the  lady 
of  their  choice. 

"Madam/'  said  the  lady  of  the  tower,  "you 
have  done  me  great  wrong  to  take  from  me  the 
lands  which  King  Aniause  gave  me.  And  I  am 
sorry  that  there  should  be  any  battle.'^ 

"  You  shall  not  choose,"  said  the  other,  "  unless 
you  withdraw  your  knight  and  yield  the  tower/' 

"  That  I  shall  not  do.  You  have  robbed  me 
enough  already.'' 

Then  was  the  trumpet  sounded,  and  proclamation 
was  made  that  whichever  champion  won  the  battle, 
the  lady  for  whom  he  fought  should  enjoy  all  the 
land.  This  done,  the  two  champions  drew  aside, 
and  faced  each  other  grimly  in  their  armor  of  proof. 

But  when  the  sound  for  the  onset  was  blown 
they  put  spurs  to  their  steeds,  which  rushed  to- 
gether like  two  lions,  and  the  knights  struck  each 
other  with  such  force  that  their  spears  flew  to 
pieces  and  both  fell  to  the  earth. 

They  quickly  rose  and  drew  their  swords,  and 
hewed  at  each  other  like  two  woodmen,  so  that 
soon  each  was  sorely  wounded  and  bleeding  pro- 
fusely. Bors  quickly  found  that  he  had  a  sturdier 
antagonist  than  he  expected,  for  Pridam  was  a 
strong  and  hardy  fighter,  who  stood  up  lustily  to 
his  work,  and  gave  his  opponent  many  a  sturdy 
blow. 

Bors,  perceiving  this,  took  a  now  course,  and 
played  with  his  antagonist  till  he  saw  that  he  was 
growing  weary  with  his  hard  work.     Then  he  ad- 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    179 

vanced  upon  him  fiercely,  and  drove  him  step  by 
step  backward,  till  in  the  end  Pridam  fell.  Bors 
now  leaped  upon  him  and  pulled  so  strongly  upon 
his  helm  as  to  rend  it  from  his  head.  Then  he 
struck  him  with  the  flat  of  his  sword  upon  the 
cheek,  and  bade  him  yield,  or  he  would  kill  him. 
For  God^s  love,  slay  me  not !  "  cried  the  knight. 
I  yield  me  to  thy  mercy.  I  shall  swear  never 
to  war  against  thy  lady,  but  be  henceforth  her 
friend  and  protector.^^ 

With  this  assurance,  Bors  let  him  live;  while 
the  covetous  old  lady  fled  in  fear,  followed  by  all 
her  knights.  The  victorious  champion  now  called 
to  him  all  those  who  held  lands  in  that  estate,  and 
threatened  to  destroy  them  unless  they  would  do 
the  lady  such  service  as  belonged  to  their  holdings. 
This  they  swore  to  do,  and  there  and  then  paid 
homage  to  the  lady,  who  thus  came  to  her  own 
again  through  the  mighty  prowess  of  Sir  Bors  de 
Ganis. 

Not  until  the  country  was  well  in  peace  did  he 
take  his  leave,  refusing  the  offers  of  wealth  which 
the  grateful  lady  pressed  upon  him,  and  receiving 
her  warm  thanks  with  a  humility  that  well  became 
him. 

Hardly  would  she  let  him  go;  but  at  length  he 
bade  her  farewell,  and  rode  away  from  her  tears 
and  thanks.  On  he  journeyed  for  all  that  day, 
and  till  midday  of  the  next,  when  he  found  him- 
self in  a  forest,  where  a  strange  adventure  befell 
him. 

For  at  the  parting  of  two  ways  he  met  two 
knights  who  had  taken  prisoner  his  brother  Lionel, 


180      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

whom  they  had  bound  all  naked  upon  a  hackney, 
while  they  beat  him  with  thorns  till  the  blood 
flowed  from  every  part  of  his  body.  Yet  so  greaft 
of  heart  was  he  that  no  word  came  from  his  lips, 
and  he  made  no  sign  of  pain. 

Bors,  seeing  this,  was  on  the  point  of  rushing 
to  his  rescue,  when  he  beheld  on  the  other  side  a 
knight  who  held  as  prisoner  a  fair  lady,  whom  he 
was  taking  into  the  thickest  part  of  the  forest  to 
hide  her  from  those  who  sought  her.  And  as  they 
went  she  cried  in  a  lamentable  voice, — 

"  Saint  Mary,  rescue  me !  Holy  mother,  succor 
vour  maid ! " 

When  she  saw  Bors  she  cried  out  to  him  griev- 
ously for  aid  and  rescue. 

"  By  the  faith  you  owe  to  the  high  order  of 
knighthood,  and  for  the  noble  King  Arthur's  sake, 
who  I  suppose  made  you  knight,  help  me,  gracious 
sir,  and  suffer  me  not  to  come  to  shame  through 
this  felon  knight ! '' 

On  hearing  this  appeal  the  distracted  knight 
knew  riot  what  to  do.  On  one  side  his  brother  in 
danger  of  his  life;  on  the  other  a  maiden  in  peril 
of  her  honor. 

"  If  I  rescue  not  my  brother  he  will  be  slain ; 
and  that  I  would  not  have  for  the  earth.  Yet  if 
I  help  not  the  maiden,  I  am  recreant  to  my  vows 
of  knighthood,  and  to  my  duty  to  the  high  order 
of  chivalry.'' 

Tears  ran  from  his  eves  as  he  stood  in  cruel 
perplexity.  Then,  with  a  knightly  resolution,  he 
cried, — 

"  Fair  sweet  Lord  Jesus,  whose  liegeman  I  am. 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    l8l 

keep  Lionel  my  brother  that  these  knights  slay 
him  not;  since  for  your  service,  and  for  Mary's 
sake,  I  must  succor  this  maid/' 

Then  he  turned  to  the  knight  who  had  the  dam- 
sel, and  loudly  cried, — 

"  Sir  knight,  take  your  hands  from  that  maiden 
and  set  her  free,  or  you  are  a  dead  man/' 

On  hearing  this  the  knight  released  the  maiden 
as  bidden,  but  drew  his  sword,  as  he  had  no  spear, 
and  rode  fiercely  at  the  rescuer.  Bors  met  him 
Avith  couched  spear,  and  struck  him  so  hard  a  blow 
as  to  pierce  his  shield  and  his  hauberk  on  the  left 
shoulder,  beating  him  down  to  the  earth.  On  pull- 
ing out  the  spear  the  wounded  knight  swooned. 

"  You  are  delivered  from  this  felon.  Can  I  help 
you  further  ?  "   said  Bors  to  the  maiden. 

"  I  beg  you  to  take  me  to  the  place  whence  he 
carried  me  away." 

"That  shall  I  do  as  my  duty." 

Then  he  seated  her  on  the  knight's  horse,  and 
conducted  her  back  towards  her  home. 

You  have  done  nobly,   sir  knight,"  she  said. 

If  you  had  not  rescued  me,  five  hundred  men 
might  have  died  for  this.  The  knight  you  wounded 
is  my  cousin,  who  yesterday  stole  me  away  from 
my  father's  house,  no  one  mistrusting  him.  But 
if  you  had  not  overcome  him,  there  would  soon 
have  been  others  on  his  track." 

Even  as  she  spoke  there  came  a  troop  of  twelve 
knights  riding  briskly  forward  in  search  of  her. 
When  they  found  her  delivered  their  joy  was  great, 
and  they  thanked  Bors  profusely,  begging  him  to 


182  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

accompany  them  to  her  father,  who  was  a  great 
lord,  and  would  welcome  him  with  gladness. 

"That  I  cannot  do,"  said  Bors,  "much  as  I 
should  like  to;  for  I  have  another  matter  of  high 
importance  before  me.  I  can  but  say,  then,  fare- 
well, and  God  be  with  vou  and  this  fair  maiden.^' 

So  saying,  he  turned  and  rode  briskly  away, 
followed  by  their  earnest  thanks.  Eeaching  the 
point  where  he  had  seen  Lionel  in  custody,  he  took 
the  trail  of  the  horses,  and  followed  them  far  by 
their  hoof -marks  in  the  road.  Then  he  overtook 
a  religious  man,  who  was  mounted  on  a  strong  horse, 
blacker  than  a  berry. 

"  Sir  knight,'^  he  asked,  "  what  seek  you  ?  ^^ 

"  I  seek  my  brother,"  he  replied,  "  who  came 
this  way  beaten  by  two  knights." 

"Then  seek  no  further,  but  be  strong  of  heart, 
for  I  have  sad  tidings  for  you.  Your  brother  is 
dead." 

He  then  led  Bors  to  a  clump  of  bushes,  in  which 
lay  a  newly  slain  body,  which  seemed  to  be  that 
of  Lionel.  Seeing  this,  Bors  broke  into  such  grief 
that  he  fell  to  the  earth  in  a  swoon,  and  long  lay 
there.     When  he  recovered  he  said,  sadly, — 

"  Dear  brother,  I  would  have  rescued  you  had 
not  a  higher  duty  called  me.  But  since  we  are  thus 
parted,  joy  shall  never  again  enter  my  desolate 
heart.  I  can  now  but  say,  be  He  whom  I  have 
taken  for  my  master  my  help  and  comfort." 

Thus  grieving,  he  took  up  the  body  in  his  arms, 
and  put  it  upon  his  saddle-bow.  Then  he  said  to 
his  companion, — 

"  Can  you  tell  me  of  some  chapel,  where  I  may 
bury  this  body  ?  " 


u 

i( 
ii 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    183 

"  Come  with  me.     There  is  one  near  by/' 

They  rode  forward  till  they  came  in  sight  of  a 
tower,  beside  which  was  an  old  and  half -ruined 
chapel.  Here  they  alighted,  and  placed  the  corpse 
in  a  tomb  of  marble. 

We  will  leave  him  here,'^  said  the  good  man, 

and  seek  shelter  for  the  night.     To-morrow  we 
will  return  and  perform  the  services  for  the  dead." 
Are  you  a  priest  ?  ^'  asked  Bors. 
Yes,''  he  answered. 

Then  you  may  be  able  to  interpret  a  dream 
that  came  to  me  last  night." 

Thereupon  he  told  his  dream  of  the  birds,  and 
that  of  the  flowers. 

^^I  can  interpret  the  vision  of  the  birds  now," 
said  the  priest.  "  The  rest  must  wait  till  later. 
The  white  bird  is  the  emblem  of  a  rich  and  fair 
lady,  who  loves  you  deeply,  and  will  die  for  love 
if  you  pity  her  not.  I  counsel  you,  therefore,  not 
to  refuse  her,  for  this  I  shall  tell  you,  that  if  you 
return  not  her  love,  your  cousin  Lancelot,  the  best 
of  knights,  shall  die.  Men  will  call  you  a  man- 
slayer,  both  of  your  brother  Lionel  and  your  cousin 
Lancelot,  since  you  might  have  saved  them  both 
easily  if  you  would.  You  rescued  a  maiden  who 
was  naught  to  3^ou,  and  let  your  brother  perish. 
Which,  think  you,  was  your  greater  duty?" 

"  I  did  what  I  thought  my  duty,"  said  Bors. 

"  At  any  rate,  bear  this  in  mind,  you  will  be  in 
sad  fault  if  you  suffer  your  cousin  Lancelot  to 
die  for  an  idle  scruple." 

"  I  should  be  sad,  indeed,"  said  Bors.  ^^  Eather 
would  I  die  ten  times  over  than  see  my  cousin  Lan- 
celot perish  through  fault  of  mine." 


184  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 


"  The  choice  lies  in  your  hand/'  said  the  priest. 
"  It  is  for  you  to  decide." 

As  he  spoke  they  came  in  front  of  a  fair-showing 
tower  and  manor-house,  where  were  knights  and 
ladies,  who  welcomed  Bors  warmly.  When  he  was 
disarmed  there  was  brought  him  a  mantle  furred 
with  ermine.  Then  he  was  led  to  the  company 
of  knights  and  ladies,  who  received  him  so  gladly, 
and  did  so  much  to  make  his  stay  pleasant,  that  all 
thoughts  of  his  brother  Lionel  and  of  the  danger 
of  Lancelot  were  driven  from  his  mind. 

As  they  stood  in  gay  converse  there  came  out  of 
a  chamber  a  lady  whom  Bors  had  not  before  seen, 
and  whose  beauty  was  such  that  he  felt  he  had 
never  beheld  so  lovely  a  face,  while  her  dress  was 
richer  than  Queen  Guenever  had  ever  worn. 

"Here,  Sir  Bors,''  said  those  present,  "is  the 
lady  to  whom  we  all  owe  service.  Eicher  and  fairer 
lady  the  world  holds  not,  and  she  loves  you  above 
all  other  knights,  and  will  have  no  knight  but  you." 

On  hearing  this,  Bors  stood  abashed.  This,  then, 
he  thought,  was  the  white  bird  of  his  dream.  Her 
love  he  must  return  or  lose  Lancelot, — so  fate  had 
spoken. 

As  he  stood  deeply  thinking,  the  lady  came  up 
and  saluted  him,  taking  his  hand  in  hers,  and  bid- 
ding him  sit  beside  her,  while  her  deep  eyes  rested 
upon  him  with  looks  that  made  his  soul  tremble. 
Never  had  he  gazed  into  such  eyes  before. 

Then  she  spoke  of  many  things,  luring  him  into 
pleasant  Conversation,  in  which  he  forgot  his  fears, 
and  began  to  take  delight  in  her  presence.  At  the 
end  she  told  him  how  deeply  and  how  long  she  had 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    185 

loved  him,  and  begged  him  to  return  her  love,  saying 
that  she  could  make  him  richer  than  ever  was  man 
of  his  age. 

These  words  brought  back  all  his  trouble  of  soul. 
How  to  answer  the  lady  he  knew  not,  for  his  vow 
of  chastity  was  too  deep  to  be  lightly  broken. 

"  Alas !  ^'  she  said,  "  must  I  plead  for  your  love 
in  vain  ?  ^' 

"  Madam,"  said  Bors,  "  I  cannot  think  of  earthly 
ties  and  delights  while  my  brother  lies  dead,  and 
awaits  the  rites  of  the  Church.'^ 

"  I  have  loved  you  long,"  she  repeated,  "  both  for 
your  beauty  of  body  and  soul,  and  the  high  renown 
you  have  achieved.  Now  that  chance  has  brought 
3^ou  to  my  home,  think  not  ill  of  me  if  I  let  you  not 
go  without  telling  my  love,  and  beseeching  you  to 
return  it." 

"That  I  cannot  do,"  said  Bors. 

At  these  words  she  fell  into  the  deepest  sorrow, 
while  tears  flowed  from  her  beautiful  eves. 

"You  will  kill  me  by  your  coldness,"  she  be- 
wailed. Then  she  took  him  by  the  hand  and  bade 
him  look  upon  her.  "  Am  I  not  fair  and  lovely, 
and  worthy  the  love  of  the  best  of  knights  ?  Alas ! 
since  you  will  not  love  me,  you  shall  see  me  die  of 
despair  before  your  eyes." 

"  That  I  do  not  fear  to  see,"  he  replied. 

"  You  shall  see  it  within  this  hour,"  she  said, 
sadly. 

Then  she  left  him,  and,  taking  with  her  twelve 
of  her  ladies,  mounted  to  the  highest  battlement 
of  the  tower,  while  Bors  was  led  to  the  court-yard 
below. 


186  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

"  Ah,  Sir  Bors,  gentle  knight,  have  pity  on  us ! " 
cried  one  of  the  ladies.  "  We  shall  all  die  if  you 
are  cruel  to  our  lady,  for  she  vows  that  she  and 
all  of  us  shall  fall  from  this  tower  if  you  disdain 
her  proffered  love." 

Bors  looked  up,  and  his  heart  melted  with  pity, 
to  see  so  many  fair  faces  looking  beseechingly  down 
upon  him,  while  tears  seemed  to  rain  from  their 
eyes.  Yet  he  was  steadfast  of  heart,  for  he  felt 
that  he  could  not  lose  his  soul  to  save  their  lives, 
and  his  vow  of  chastity  in  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal 
was  not  to  be  broken  for  the  delights  of  earthly 
love. 

As  he  stood,  some  of  the  maidens  flung  themselves 
from  the  tower,  and  lay  dead  and  bleeding  at  his 
feet,  while  above  he  saw  the  fair  face  of  the  lady 
looking  down,  as  she  stood  balanced  on  the  battle- 
ment, like  a  fair  leaf  that  the  next  wind  would 
sweep  to  certain  death. 

"  God  help  me  and  guide  me !  ^'  cried  Bors  in 
horror.  "What  shall  I  do?  Here  earthly  endur- 
ance is  too  weak ;  I  must  put  my  trust  in  heaven." 
And  he  made  the  sign  of  the  cross  on  his  forehead 
and  his  breast. 

Then  came  a  marvel  indeed.  A  roar  was  heard 
as  if  thunder  had  rent  the  sky,  and  a  cry  as  if  all 
the  fiends  of  hell  were  about  him.  For  the  moment 
he  closed  his  eyes,  stunned  by  the  uproar.  When 
he  opened  them  again  all  had  gone, — the  tower, 
the  lady,  the  knights,  and  the  chapel  where  he  had 
placed  his  brother's  body, — and  he  stood  in  the 
road,  armed  and  mounted,  while  only  a  broad,  empty 
plain  spread  before  him. 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    187 

Then  he  held  up  his  hands  to  heaven  and  cried 
fervently:  "Father  and  Creator,  from  what  have  I 
escaped!  It  is  the  foul  fiend  in  the  likeness  of  a 
beautiful  woman  who  has  tempted  me.  Only  the 
sign  of  the  holy  cross  has  saved  me  from  perdition.'^ 

Putting  spurs  to  his  horse  he  rode  furiously 
away,  burning  with  anxiety  to  get  from  that 
accursed  place,  and  deeply  glad  at  his  escape.  As 
he  proceeded  a  loud  clock-bell  sounded  to  the  right, 
and  turning  thither  he  came  to  a  high  wall,  over 
which  he  saw  the  pinnacles  of  an  abbey. 

Here  he  asked  shelter  for  the  night,  and  was 
received  with  a  warm  welcome,  for  those  within 
deemed  he  was  one  of  the  knights  that  sought  the 
Sangreal.  When  morning  came  he  heard  mass,  and 
then  the  abbot  came  and  bade  him  good-morning. 
A  conversation  followed,  in  which  he  told  the  abbot 
all  that  had  happened  to  him,  and  begged  his 
interpretation  thereof. 

"  Truly  you  are  strong  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,^^  said  the  abbot,  "and  are  held  for  great 
deeds.  Thus  I  interpret  your  adventures  and 
visions.  The  great  fowl  that  fed  its  young  with 
its  own  blood  is  an  emblem  of  Christ,  who  shed 
his  blood  for  the  good  of  mankind.  And  the  bare 
tree  on  which  it  sat  signifies  the  world,  which 
of  itself  is  barren  and  without  fruit.  Also  King 
Aniause  betokens  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  lady  for 
whom  you  took  the  battle  the  new  law  of  Holy 
Church;  while  the  older  lady  is  the  emblem  of  the 
old  law  and  the  fiend,  which  forever  war  against 
the  Church. 

"  By  the  black  bird  also  was  emblemed  the  Holy 


188  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Church,  which  saith,  ^  I  am  black  but  he  is  fair/ 
The  white  bird  represented  the  fiend,  which,  like 
hypocrisy,  is  white  without  and  foul  within.  As 
for  the  rotten  chair  and  the  white  lilies,  the  first 
was  thy  brother  Lionel,  who  is  a  murderer  and  an 
untrue  knight ;  while  the  lilies  were  the  knight  and 
the  lady.  The  one  drew  near  to  the  other  to  dis- 
honor her,  but  you  forced  them  to  part.  And  you 
would  have  been  in  great  peril  had  you,  for  the 
rescue  of  a  rotten  tree,  suffered  those  two  flowers 
to  perish;  for  if  they  had  sinned  together  they 
had  both  been  damned. 

"The  seeming  man  of  religion,  who  blamed  you 
for  leaving  your  brother  to  rescue  a  lady,  was  the 
foul  fiend  himself.  Your  brother  was  not  slain,  as 
he  made  it  appear,  but  is  still  alive.  For  the 
corpse,  and  the  chapel,  and  the  tower  were  all 
devices  of  the  evil  one,  and  the  lady  who  offered 
her  love  was  the  fiend  himself  in  that  showing. 
He  knew  you  were  tender-hearted,  and  he  did  all 
Much  you  may  thank  God  that  you  withstood  his 
temptation,  aiid  that  until  now  you  have  come 
through  all  your  adventures  pure  and  unblemished.'' 

This  gladdened  the  heart  of  the  virtuous  knight, 
and  a  warm  hope  of  winning  the  Sangreal  arose 
in  his  soul.  Much  more  passed  between  them,  and 
when  Bors  rode  forth  it  was  with  the  fervent  bless- 
ing of  the  holy  abbot. 

On  the  morning  of  the  second  day  Bors  saw 
before  him  a  castle  that  rose  in  a  green  valley,  and 
met  with  a  yeoman,  whom  he  stopped  and  asked 
what  was  going  on  in  that  country. 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    189 


"  Sir  knight/'  he  answered,  "  there  is  to  be  held 
a  great  tournament  before  that  castle/' 

"  By  what  people  ?  "  asked  Bors. 

"  The  Earl  of  Plains/'  was  the  answer,  "  leads 
one  party,  and  the  nephew  of  the  Lady  of  Hervin 
the  other." 

With  this  the  yeoman  rode  on,  and  Bors  kept  on 
his  course;  thinking  he  might  meet  Lionel  or  some 
other  of  his  old  comrades  at  the  tournament.  At 
length  he  turned  aside  to  a  hermitage  that  stood 
at  the  entrance  to  the  forest.  And  to  this  surprise 
and  joy  he  saw  his  brother  Lionel  sitting  armed 
at  the  chapel  door,  waiting  there  to  take  part  in 
the  tournament  the  next  morning. 

Springing  from  his  horse,  Bors  ran  up  gladly, 
crying,  ^^  Dear  brother,  happy  is  this  meeting !  '^ 

"  Come  not  near  me ! "  cried  Lionel,  leaping  to 
his  feet  in  a  burst  of  fury.  "  False  recreant,  you 
left  me  in  peril  of  death  to  help  a  yelping  woman, 
and  by  my  knightly  vow  you  shall  pay  dearly  for 
it.  Keep  from  me,  traitor,  and  defend  yourself. 
You  or  I  shall  die  for  this." 

On  seeing  his  brother  in  such  wrath  Bors  kneeled 
beseechingly  before  him,  holding  up  his  hands,  and 
praying  for  pardon  and  forgiveness. 

"  Never ! "  said  Lionel.  "  I  vow  to  God  to 
punish  you  for  your  treachery.  You  have  lived 
long  enough  for  a  dog  and  traitor." 

Then  he  strode  wrathfully  away,  and  came  back 
soon,  mounted  and  with  spear  in  hand. 

"  Bors  de  Ganis,"  he  cried,  "  defend  yourself, 
for  I  hold  vou  as  a  felon  and  traitor,  and  the  un- 
truest  knifjjht  that  ever  came  from  so  worthv  a 


190  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

house  as  ours.  Mount  and  fight.  If  you  will  not, 
I  will  run  on  you  as  you  stand  there  on  foot.  The 
shame  shall  be  mine  and  the  harm  yours;  but  of 
that  shame  I  reck  naught." 

When  Bors  saw  that  he  must  fight  with  his 
brother  or  die  he  knew  not  what  to  do.  Again  he 
kneeled  and  begged  forgiveness,  in  view  of  the  love 
that  ought  to  be  between  brothers. 

But  the  fiend  that  sought  his  overthrow  had  put 
such  fury  into  Lionel's  heart  that  nothing  could 
turn  him  from  his  wrathful  purpose.  And  when 
he  saw  that  Bors  would  not  mount,  he  spurred  his 
horse  upon  him  and  rode  over  him,  hurting  him 
so  with  his  horse's  hoofs  that  he  swooned  with  the 
pain.  Then  Lionel  sprang  from  his  horse  and 
rushed  upon  him  sword  in  hand  to  strike  off  his 
head. 

x\t  this  critical  moment  the  hermit,  who  was  a 
man  of  great  age,  came  running  out,  and  threw 
himself  protectingly  on  the  fallen  knight. 

"  Gentle  sir,"  he  cried  to  Lionel,  "  have  mercy 
on  me  and  on  thy  brother,  who  is  one  of  the 
worthiest  knights  in  the  world.  If  you  slay  him, 
you  will  lose  your  soul.'' 

"  Sir  priest,"  said  Lionel,  sternly,  "  if  you  leave 
not  I  shall  slay  you,  and  him  after  you." 

"  Slay  me  if  you  will,  but  spare  your  brother, 
for  my  death  would  not  do  half  so  much  harm  as 
his." 

"  Have  it,  then,  meddler,  if  you  will ! "  cried 
Lionel,  and  he  struck  the  hermit  a  blow  with  his 
Bword  that  stretched  him  dead  on  the  ground. 

Then,  with  unquenched  anger,  he  tor^  loose  the 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OF  SIR  BORS.    191 

lacings  of  his  brother's  helmet,  and  would  have 
killed  him  on  the  spot  but  for  a  fortunate  chance- 
As  it  happened,  Colgrevance,  a  fellow  of  the 
Eound  Table,  rode  up  at  that  moment,  and  won- 
dered when  he  saw  the  hermit  dead,  and  Lionel 
about  to  slay  his  brother,  whom  he  greatly  loved. 

Leaping  hastily  to  the  ground,  he  caught  the 
furious  knight  by  the  shoulders  and  drew  him 
strongly  backward. 

"  What  would  you  do  ?  ^'  he  cried.  ^^  Madman, 
would  you  kill  your  brother,  the  worthiest  knight 
of  our  brotherhood?  And  are  you  so  lost  to  honor 
as  to  slay  any  knight  thus  lying  insensible  ?  ^' 

"Will  you  hinder  me?'^  asked  Lionel,  turning 
in  rage.  "Back,  sirrah,  or  I  shall  slay  you  first 
and  him  afterwards." 

"  Why  seek  you  to  slay  him  ?  " 

"  He  has  richly  deserved  it,  and  die  he  shall, 
whoever  says  the  contrary." 

Then  he  ran  upon  Bors  and  raised  his  sword  to 
strike  him  on  the  head.  But  Colgrevance  pushed 
between  them  and  thrust  him  fiercely  backward. 

"  Off,  you  murderer !  "  he  cried.  "  If  you  are 
so  hot  for  blood  vou  must  have  mine  first.^' 
Who  are  you  ?  "  demanded  Lionel. 
I  am  Colgrevance,  one  of  your  fellows.  Eound 
Table  Knights  should  be  brothers,  not  foes,  but  I 
would  challenge  King  Arthur  himself  in  this 
quarrel." 

"Defend  yourself,  meddler,"  cried  Lionel,  rush- 
ing upon  him  and  striking  him  fiercely  on  the  helm 
with  his  sword. 

"  That  shall  I,"  rejoined  Colgrevance,  attacking 
him  in  turn. 


192  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Then  a  hot  battle  began,  for  Colgrevance  was  a 
good  knight,  and  defended  himself  manfully. 

While  the  fight  went  on  Bors  recovered  his  senses, 
and  saw  with  a  sad  heart  Colgrevance  defending 
him  against  his  brother.  He  strove  to  rise  and 
part  them,  but  his  hurts  were  such  that  he  could 
not  stand  on  his  feet.  And  thus  he  sat  watching 
the  combat  till  he  saw  that  Colgrevance  had  the 
worst,  for  Lionel  had  wounded  him  sorely,  and  he 
had  lost  so  much  blood  that  he  could  barely  stand. 

At  this  juncture  he  saw  Bors,  who  sat  watching 
them  in  deep  anguish. 

"  Bors,''  he  cried,  "  I  am  fighting  to  succor  you. 
Will  you  sit  there  and  see  me  perish  ?  '^ 

"  You  both  shall  die,"  cried  Lionel,  furiously. 
^^  You  shall  pay  the  penalty  of  your  meddling, 
and  he  of  his  treason." 

Hearing  this,  Bors  rose  with  aching  limbs,  and 
painfully  put  on  his  helm.  Colgrevance  again 
called  to  him  in  anguish, — 

"  Help  me,  Bors !  I  can  stand  no  longer.  Will 
you  let  me  die  without  lifting  your  hand  ?  " 

At  this  moment  Lionel  smote  the  helm  from  his 
head,  and  then  with  another  fierce  blow  stretched 
him  dead  and  bleeding  upon  the  earth. 

This  murderous  deed  done,  he  ran  on  Bors  with 
the  passion  of  a  fiend,  and  dealt  him  a  blow  that 
made  him  stoop. 

"  For  God's  love  leave  me !  "  cried  Bors.  ^'  If  T 
slay  you  or  you  me,  we  will  both  be  dead  of  that 


sm. 


a 


May  God  never  help  me  if  I  take  mercy  on  you, 
if  I  have  the  better  hand,"  cried  Lionel,  in  reply. 


THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  OP  SIR  BORS.    193 

Then  Bors  drew  his  sword,  though  his  eyes  were 
wet  with  tears. 

"  Fair  brother,"  he  said,  "God  knows  my  heart 
Yon  have  done  evil  enough  this  day,  in  slaying  a 
holy  priest  and  one  of  our  own  brotherhood  of 
knights.  I  fear  you  not,  but  I  dread  the  wrath 
of  God,  for  this  is  an  unnatural  battle  which  you 
force  upon  me.  May  God  have  mercy  upon  me, 
since  I  must  defend  my  life  against  my  brother." 

Saying  this,  Bors  raised  his  sword  and  advanced 
upon  Lionel,  who  stood  before  him  with  the  wrath 
of  a  fury. 

Then  would  have  been  a  most  unholy  battle,  had 
not  God  come  to  the  rescue.  For  as  they  thus 
stood  defiant  a  voice  came  to  them  from  the  air, 
which  said, — 

"  Flee,  Bors,  and  touch  him  not,  for  if  you  do, 
you  will  surely  slay  him." 

And  between  them  descended  a  cloud  that  gleamed 
like  fire,  and  from  which  issued  a  marvellous  flame 
that  burned  both  their  shields  to  a  cinder.  They 
were  both  so  affrighted  that  they  fell  to  the  earth, 
and  lay  there  long  in  a  swoon. 

When  they  came  to  themselves  Bors  saw  that 
his  brother  had  received  no  harm.  For  this  he 
thanked  God,  for  he  feared  that  heaven's  vengeance 
had  fallen  upon  him.     Then  came  the  voice  again. 

"  Bors,"  it  said,  "  go  hence,  and  bear  thy  brother 
company  no  longer.  Take  thy  way  to  the  sea  where 
Percivale  awaiteth  thee." 

"  Forgive  me,  brother,"  said  Bors,  "  for  what  I 
have  done  against  you." 

"  God  has  forgiven  you,  and  I  must,"  said  Lionel. 

11-13 


194  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

"  It  was  the  foul  fiend  that  filled  my  soul  with 
fury,  and  much  harm  has  come  of  it/' 

Then  Bors  rode  away,  leaving  Lionel  in  the  com- 
pany of  those  whom  he  had  slain,  and  took  the 
most  direct  road  towards  the  sea. 

At  length  he  came  to  an  abbey  that  was  near  the 
water-side.  And  at  midnight  as  he  rested  there  he 
was  roused  from  his  sleep  by  a  voice,  that  bade  him 
leave  his  bed  and  ride  onward. 

He  started  up  at  this,  and  made  the  sign  of  the 
cross  on  his  forehead;  then  took  his  harness  and 
horse,  and  rode  out  at  a  broken  place  in  the  abbey 
wall.  An  hour  or  so  brought  him  to  the  water- 
side, and  on  the  strand  there  lay  awaiting  him  a 
ship  all  covered  with  white  samite.  Bors  alighted, 
and  leaving  his  horse  on  the  stand  entered  the  ship, 
commending  himself  to  Christ's  fostering  care. 

Hardly  had  he  done  so  before  the  sails  spread, 
as  of  themselves,  and  the  vessel  set  out  to  sea  so 
fast  that  it  seemed  to  fly.  But  it  was  still  dark 
night,  and  he  saw  no  one  about  him.  So  he  lay 
down  a^d  slept  till  day. 

WTien  he  awaked  he  saw  a  knight  lying  in  the 
middle  of  the  deck,  all  armed  but  the  helm.  A 
glance  told  him  that  it  was  Percivale  de  Galis,  and 
he  sprang  towards  him  with  joy.  But  Percivaie 
drew  back,  asking  him  who  he  was. 
Know  you  me  not  ?  "  asked  Bors. 
I  do  not.  But  I  marvel  how  you  came  hither, 
unless  brought  by  our  Lord  himself." 

Then  Bors  took  off  his  helm  and  smiled.  Great 
was  Percivale's  joy  when  he  recognized  him,  and 
long  did  they  converse  in  gladness,  telling  each 
other  their  adventures  and  temptations. 


C6 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  MAGIC  SHIP.        195 

And  so  they  went  far  oVer  the  sea,  the  ship  tak- 
ing them  they  knew  not  whither,  yet  each  com- 
forted the  other,  and  daily  they  prayed  for  God's 
grace. 

"Now,  that  we  two  are  together,"  said  Perci- 
vale,  "we  lack  nothing  but  Galahad,  the  best  of 
knights.'^ 


CHAPTER  VI. 

THE    ADVENTURE    OF   THE    MAGIC    SHIP. 

After  Galahad  had  rescued  Percivale  from  the 
twenty  knights,  he  rode  into  a  vast  forest,  through 
which  he  journeyed  for  many  days,  meeting  there 
many  strange  adventures.  Then  fortune  took  him 
past  a  castle  where  a  tournament  was  in  progress, 
and  where  the  men  of  the  castle  had  so  much  the 
worse  of  it  that  they  were  driven  back  to  their 
gates,  and  some  of  them  slain.  Seeing  this,  Gala- 
had rode  to  the  aid  of  the  weaker  party,  and  did 
marvellous  deeds  of  arms,  soon  aiding  them  to  drive 
back  their  foes. 

As  it  happened,  Gawaine  and  Hector  de  Maris 
were  with  the  outer  party,  and  when  they  beheld 
the  white  shield  with  the  red  cross,  they  said  to 
one  another, — 

"  That  hewer  of  helms  and  shields  is  Galahad, 
none  less.  We  shoxdd  be  fools  to  meet  him  face  to 
faee/^ 


196  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Yet  Gawaine  did  not  escape,  for  Galahad  came 
at  full  career  upon  him,  and  gave  him  such  a  blow 
that  his  helm-  was  cleft,  and  so  would  his  head 
have  been  but  that  the  sword  slanted,  and  cut  the 
shoulder  of  his  horse  deeply. 

Seeing  Gawaine  thus  dealt  with.  Hector  drew 
back,  not  deeming  it  wise  to  meet  such  a  cham- 
pion, nor  the  part  of  nature  to  fight  with  his 
nephew.  Galahad  continued  his  onset  till  he  had 
beaten  down  all  the  knights  opposed  to  him.  Then, 
seeing  that  none  would  face  him,  he  turned  and 
rode  away  as  he  had  come,  none  knowing  whither 
he,  who  had  come  upon  them  with  the  suddenness 
of  a  thunder-clap,  had  gone. 

"  Lancelot  du  Lake  told  no  less  than  the  truth," 
declared  Gawaine,  bitterly,  "  when  he  said  that,  for 
seeking  to  draw  the  sword  from  the  stone,  I  would 
get  a  sore  wound  from  that  same  blade.  In  faith, 
I  would  not  for  the  best  castle  in  the  world  have 
had  such  a  buffet.'^ 

Your  quest  is  done,  it  seems/'  said  Hector. 
As  for  that,  it  was  done  before.     You  can  still 
seek  the  Sangreal  if  you  will,  but  I  shall  seek  my 
bed ;  and  I  fear  I  shall  stay  there  much  longer  than 
I  care  to." 

Then  he  was  borne  into  the  castle,  where  a  leech 
was  found  for  him,  while  Hector  remained  with 
him,  vowing  he  would  not  leave  till  his  comrade 
was  well. 

Meanwhile  Galahad  rode  on,  leaving  many  a 
groan  and  more  than  one  sore  head  behind  him, 
and  at  night  reached  a  hermitage  near  the  castle  of 
Carbonek.     Here  he  was  welcomed  by  the  hermit  ;. 


THE  ADVENTURE  OP  THE  MAGIC  SHIP.        197 

but  liate  at  nigM,  when  they  were  asleep,  a  loud 
knock  came  on  the  door,  which  roused  the  host. 
Going  to  see  who  knocked  at  that  untimely  hour, 
he  found  a  lady  at  the  door,  who  said, — 

"TJlfin,  rouse  the  knight  who  is  with  you.  I 
must  speak  with  him." 

This  he  did,  and  Galahad  went  to  the  door,  and 
asked  her  what  she  wished. 

"  Galahad,'^  she  replied,  "  I  am  sent  here  to  seek 
you.  You  must  arm  and  mount  your  horse  at  once, 
and  follow  me.  Within  three  days  I  shall  bring 
you  to  the  greatest  adventure  that  ever  knight  met.'^ 

Without  further  question  Galahad  obeyed,  and, 
having  commended  himself  to  God,  he  bade  his  fair 
guide  to  lead,  and  he  would  follow  wherever  she 
wished. 

Onward  they  rode  during  the  remainder  of  the 
night  and  the  next  day,  till  they  came  to  a  castle 
not  far  from  the  sea,  where  Galahad  was  warmly 
welcomed,  for  the  damsel  who  guided  him  had  been 
sent  by  the  lady  of  that  castle. 

"Madam,"  said  the  damsel,  "shall  he  stav  here 
all  night  ?  " 

^^  No,"  she  replied ;  "  only  until  he  has  dined, 
and  has  slept  a  little.  He  must  ride  on  until  des- 
tiny is  accomplished." 

So  at  early  nightfall  Galahad  was  called  and 
helped  to  arm  by  torchlight.  Then  he  and  the 
damsel  again  took  horse,  and  rode  on  at  speed  till 
they  suddenly  found  themselves  at  the  ocean's  brink, 
with  the  waves  breaking  at  their  feet.  And  here  lay 
a  ship  covered  with  white  samite,  from  which 
manly  voices  cried, — 


198  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

"  Welcome,  Sir  Galahad.  We  have  long  awaited 
you.     Come  on  board.'' 

^^  What  means  this  ?  "  asked  Galahad  of  the  dam- 
sel.    "  Who  are  they  that  call  ? '' 

"No  others  than  your  friends  and  comrades^ 
Sir  Bors  and  Sir  Percivale.  Here  you  must  leave 
your  horse,  and  I  mine,  and  both  of  us  enter  the 
ship,  for  so  God  commands.^' 

This  tliey  did,  taking  their  saddles  and  bridles 
with  them,  and  making  on  them  the  sign  of  the 
cross.  When  they  had  entered  the  ship  the  two 
knights  received  them  \\dth  great  joy.  And  as 
they  stood  greeting  each  other  tlio  wind  suddenly 
rose  and  drove  the  ship  from  the  land,  forcing  it 
through  the  waves  at  a  marvellous  speed. 

"  WTience  comes  this  ship  ?  "  asked  Galahad. 

Then  Bors  and  Percivale  told  him  of  their  ad- 
ventures and  temptations,  and  by  what  miracles 
they  had  been  brought  on  board  that  vessel. 

"  Truly/'  said  Galahad,  "  God  has  aided  you 
marvellouslv.  As  for  me,  had  it  not  been  for  the 
lady  wiio  led  me,  I  should  never  have  found  you.^' 

"  If  Lancelot,  your  father,  were  Init  here,"  said 
Bors,  "  then  it  would  seem  to  me  that  we  had  all 
that  heart  could  wish.'' 

"That  may  not  be,"  answered  Galahad,  "unless 
])y  tlui  ])leasure  of  our  Lord." 

As  they  conversed  the  ship  suddenly  ran  between 
two  rocks,  where  it  held  fast,  but  where  they  could 
not  land  for  the  raging  of  the  sea.  But  just  before 
them  lay  another  ship,  which  they  could  reach 
without  danger. 

"  Thither  we  must  go,"  said  the  lady,  "  and  there 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  MAGIC  SHIP.        199 

we  shall  find  strange  things,  for  such  is  the  Lord's 
will/' 

At  this  they  approached  the  ship,  and  saw  that 
it  was  richly  provided,  but  without  man  or  woman 
on  board.  And  on  its  bow  there  was  written  in 
large  letters, — 

"You  who  shall  enter  this  ship,  take  heed  of 
your  belief:  for  I  am  Faith,  and  bid  you  beware. 
If  you  fail  I  shall  not  help  you.  He  who  enters 
here  must  be  of  pure  heart  and  earnest  trust." 

They  stood  looking  earnestly  at  one  another  after 
having  read  these  words. 

"  Percivale,"  said  the  lady,  "  know  you  who  I 
am  ? '' 

"  I  do  not,''  he  replied.  "  Have  I  ever  seen  you 
before  ?  " 

"  Know,  then,  that  I  am  your  sister,  the  daugh- 
ter of  King  Pellinore.  I  love  no  man  on  earth  as 
I  do  you.  I  warn  you,  therefore,  not  to  enter  this 
ship  unless  you  have  perfect  belief  in  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  for  if  your  faith  fails  you  aught  here 
3^0 u  shall  perish." 

"  Fair  sister,"  he  replied,  "  happy  am  I,  indeed, 
to  know  you.  As  for  the  ship,  I  shall  not  fail  to 
enter  it.  If  I  prove  an  untrue  knight  or  a  mis- 
believer, then  let  me  perish." 

As  they  spoke,  Galahad  blessed  himself  and  en- 
tered the  ship,  and  after  him  came  the  lady,  and 
then  Bors  and  Percivale.  On  reaching  the  deck 
they  found  it  so  marvellously  fair  and  rich  that 
they  stood  in  wonder.  In  the  midst  of  the  ship  was 
a  noble  bed;  and  when  Galahad  went  thither  he 
found  on  it  a  crown  of  silk.     Below  this  lay  a 


200      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

sword,  half  drawn  from  its  scabbard,  the  pommel 
being  of  stone  of  many  colors.  The  scales  of  the 
haft  were  of  the  ribs  of  two  beasts.  One  beast  was 
a  serpent,  known  in  Calidone  as  the  serpent  of  the 
fiend;  and  its  bone  had  the  magic  virtue  that  the 
hand  which  touched  it  should  never  be  weary  or 
hurt.  The  other  beast  was  a  fish,  that  haunted 
the  flood  of  Euphrates,  its  name  Ertanax ;  its  bone 
had  the  virtue  that  he  who  handled  it  should  not 
think  on  the  joys  and  sorrows  of  his  past  life,  but 
only  of  that  which  he  then  beheld.  And  no  man 
could  grasp  this  sword  but  the  one  who  passed  all 
others  in  might  and  virtue. 

^^  In  the  name  of  God,^^  said  Percivale,  "  I  shall 
seek  to  handle  it." 

But  in  vain  he  tried,  he  could  not  grasp  the  magic 
hilt.  No  more  could  Bors,  who  attempted  it  in 
his  turn.  Then  Galahad  approached,  and  as  he 
did  so  saw  written  on  the  sword  in  letters  like 
blood,  "  He  who  draweth  me  has  peril  to  endure. 
His  body  shall  meet  with  shame,  for  he  shall  be 
wounded  to  the  death. '^ 

"By  my  faith,  the  risk  is  too  great,"  said  Gala- 
had.    "  I  shall  not  set  my  hand  to  so  fatal  a  blade.'^ 

"  That  you  must,"  said  the  lady.     "  The  drawing 
of  this  sword  is  forbidden  to  all  men,  save  you.. 
N"o  one  can  draw  back  from  that  which  destiny 
commands." 

Then  she  told  a  marvellous  story  of  that  strange 
blade. 

"When  this  ship  arrived  in  the  realm  of  Eng- 
land," she  said,  "there  was  deadly  war  between 
King  Labor  and  King  Hurlame,  who  was  a  chris- 


THE  ADVENTURE  OP  THE  MAGIC  SHIP.       201 

tened  Saracen.  Here  they  fought  one  day  by  the 
sea-side,  and  Hurlame  was  defeated  and  his  men 
slain.  Then  he  fled  into  this  ship,  drew  the  sword 
which  he  saw  here,  and  with  one  stroke  smote  King 
Labor  and  his  horse  in  twain.  But  a  fatal  stroke 
it  proved,  for  with  it  there  came  harm  and  pesti- 
lence to  all  this  realm.  Neither  com  nor  grass 
would  grow,  fruit  failed  to  ripen,  the  waters  held 
no  fish,  and  men  named  this  the  waste  land  of  the 
two  marches.  Nor  did  King  Hurlame  escape. 
AVhen  he  saw  the  strange  carving  of  the  sword,  a 
craving  came  into  his  mind  to  possess  the  scab- 
bard. Entering  the  ship  for  that  purpose,  he  thrust 
the  sword  into  the  sheath;  but  no  sooner  had  he 
done  so  than  he  fell  dead  beside  the  bed.  And 
there  his  body  lay  till  a  maiden  entered  the  ship 
and  cast  it  out,  for  no  man  could  be  found  hardy 
enough  to  set  foot  on  that  fatal  deck." 

The  three  knights  on  hearing  this  looked  ear- 
nestly at  the  scabbard,  which  seemed  to  them  made 
of  serpent's  skin,  while  on  it  was  writing  in  letters 
of  gold  and  silver.  But  the  girdle  was  poor  and 
mean,  and  ill  suited  to  so  rich  a  sword.  The  writ- 
ing was  to  this  effect :  "  He  who  shall  wield  'me 
must  be  hardy  of  nature.  Nor  shall  he  ever  be 
shamed  while  he  is  girt  with  this  girdle;  which 
must  never  be  put  away  except  by  the  hands  of  a 
maiden  and  a  king^s  daughter.  And  she,  if  she 
shall  ever  cease  to  be  a  maid,  shall  die  the  most 
villanous  death  that  woman  ever  endured." 

"  Turn  the  sword,"  said  Percivale,  "  that  we  may 
see  what  is  on  the  other  side." 

On  doing  so  they  found  it  red  as  blood,  with 


202  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

coal-black  letters,  which  said :  "  He  that  shall  praise 
me  most  shall  find  me  most  to  fail  him  in  time  of 
great  need ;  and  to  whom  I  should  be  most  fair  shall 
I  prove  most  foul.     Thus  is  it  ordained." 

Then  Percivale's  sister  told  them  the  history  of 
the  sword,  which  was  a  very  strange  and  admirable 
thing  to  hear.  More  than  once  had  it  been  drawn 
in  modern  times;  once  by  Nacien,  who  afterwards 
became  a  hermit,  and  in  whose  hands  the  sword 
fell  in  half,  and  sorely  wounded  him  in  the  foot. 
Afterwards  it  was  drawn  by  King  Pellam,  and  it 
was  for  this  boldness  that  he  was  destined  to  be 
deeply  wounded  by  the  spear  with  which  Balin 
afterwards  struck  him. 

The  knights  now  observed  the  bed  more  closely, 
and  saw  that  above  its  head  there  hung  two  swords. 
With  them  were,  three  strange  spindles,  one  of 
which  was  white  b,s  snow,  one  red  as  blood,  and  one 
as  green  as  emerald.  As  they  gazed  at  them  with 
curious  wonder,  the  damsel  told  a  strange  story 
of  the  surprising  things  they  had  gazed  upon.  And 
thus  her  story  fan. 

When  mother  Eve  gathered  the  fruit  for  which 
Adam  and  she  were  put  out  of  Paradise,  she  took 
with  her  the  bough  on  which  the  apple  grew.  As 
it  kept  fair  and  green,  and  she  had  no  coffer  in 
wliich  to  keep  it,  she  thrust  it  in  the  earth,  where, 
by  God's  will,  it  took  root,  and  soon  grew  to  a  great 
tree,  whose  branches  and  leaves  were  as  white  as 
milk.  But  afterwards,  at  the  time  of  Abel's  birth, 
it  became  grass-green.  It  was  under  this  tree  that 
Cain  slew  Abel,  and  then  it  quickly  lost  its  green 
color,   and  grew   rod   as   blood.     So   it   lived    and 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  MAGIC  SHIP,       203 

thrived,  and  was  in  full  life  when  Solomon,  the 
wise  king,  came  to  the  throne. 

It  came  to  pass  that,  as  Solomon  studied  over 
many  things,  and,  above  all,  despised  women  in 
his  heart  and  in  his  writings,  a  voice  came  which 
told  him  that  of  his  line  would  be  born  the  Virgin 
Mary,  the  purest  and  noblest  of  human  kind,  and 
that  afterwards  would  come  a  man,  the  last  of  his 
blood,  as  pure  in  mind  as  a  young  maiden,  and  as 
good  a  knight  as  Joshua  of  Israel.  This  revelation 
he  told  to  his  wife,  who  had  questioned  him  as  to 
the  reason  of  his  deep  study. 

"  Sir,"  she  said,  ^^  since  this  knight  is  to  come,  it 
is  our  duty  to  prepare  for  him.  Therefore,  I  shall 
first  have  made  a  ship  of  the  best  and  most  durable 
wood  that  man  mav  find." 

This  was  done  by  Solomon's  command.  When 
the  ship  was  built  and  ready  to  sail,  she  made  a 
covering  for  it  of  cloth  of  silk,  of  such  quality 
that  no  weather  could  rot  it.  And  in  the  midst  she 
placed  a  great  bed,  of  marvellously  rich  workman- 
ship, and  covered  with  silk  of  the  finest  texture. 
Now,   my   dear   lord,"   she   said   to    Solomon, 

since  this  last  knight  of  your  lineage  is  to  pass 
in  valor  and  renown  all  other  knights  that  have 
been  before  or  shall  come  after  him,  therefore  I 
counsel  you  to  go  into  the  Temple  of  the  Lord, 
where  is  the  sword  of  the  great  King  David,  your 
father,  which  is  of  magic  temper  and  virtue.  Take 
off  the  pommel  of  this  sword  and  make  one  of 
precious  stones,  skilfully  wrought.  And  make  a 
hilt  and  sheath  of  great  richness  and  beauty.  As 
for  the  girdle,  leave  that  to  me  to  provide." 


(6 


204  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Solomon  did  as  she  advised,  and  she  took  the 
sword  and  laid  it  in  the  bed ;  but  when  he  looked 
at  it  he  grew  angry,  for  the  girdle  was  meanly 
made  of  hemp. 

^^  I  have  nothing,'^  she  said,  '^  fit  to  make  a  girdle 
worthv  of  such  a  sword.  But  when  the  time  comes 
a  maiden  will  change  this  for  a  girdle  worthy  of 
him  that  is  to  wear  it."    . 

This  done,  she  went  with  a  carpenter  to  the  tree 
under  which  Abel  was  slain. 

"  Carve  me  from  this  tree  as  much  wood  as  will 
make  me  a  spindle,"  she  said. 

"  Ah,  madam,"  said  he,  "  I  dare  not  cut  the  tree 
which  our  first  mother  planted." 

"  Do  as  you  are  bidden,"  she  ordered.  ^^  Dare 
not  disobey  me." 

But  as  he  began  to  cut  the  tree  drops  of  blood 
flowed  out.  Then  he  would  have  fled,  but  she  made 
him  cut  sufficient  to  form  a  spindle.  Xext  she 
went  to  the  green  and  the  white  trees,  which  had 
grown  from  the  roots  of  the  other,  and  bade  him 
cut  as  much  from  each  of  these.  From  this  wood 
were  three  spindles  wrought,  which  she  hung  up  at 
the  head  of  the  bed. 

^^  You  have  done  marvellously  well,"  said  Solo- 
mon, on  seeing  tliis.  "  Wonderful  things,  I  deem, 
shall  come  of  all  this,  more  than  you  yourself 
dream  of." 

"  Some  of  these  things  you  shall  soon  know," 
she  answered. 

That  night  Solomon  lay  near  the  ship,  and  as 
he  slept  he  dreamed.  There  came  from  heaven,  as 
it  seemed  to  him,  a  great  company  of  angels,  who 


THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  MAGIC  SHIP.        205 

alighted  in  the  ship,  and  took  water  that  was 
brought  by  an  angel  in  a  vessel  of  silver,  and 
sprinkled  it  everywhere.  Then  the  angel  came  to 
the  sword  and  drew  letters  on  the  hilt,  and  on  the 
ship's  bow  he  wrote,  ^^  You  who  shall  enter  this  ship 
take  heed  of  your  belief,"  and  further  as  the  knights 
had  read.  When  Solomon  had  read  these  words  he 
drew  back,  and  dared  not  enter,  and  there  soon 
arose  a  wind  which  drove  the  ship  far  to  sea,  so 
that  it  was  quickly  lost  to  sight.  Then  a  low  voice 
said,  "  Solomon,  the  last  knight  of  thy  lineage  shall 
rest  in  this  bed.'^  With  this  Solomon  waked,  and 
lo !   the  ship  was  gone. 

This  was  the  story  that  the  fair  damsel,  Per- 
civale's  sister,  told  to  the  knights,  as  they  stood 
curiously  surveying  the  bed  and  the  spindles.  Then 
one  of  them  lifted  a  cloth  that  lay  on  the  deck,  and 
under  it  found  a  purse,  in  which  was  a  written 
paper,  telling  the  same  strange  story  they  had  just 
heard. 

"  The  sword  is  here,"  said  Galahad ;  "  but  where 
shall  be  found  the  maiden  who  is  to  make  the  new 
girdle?" 

"  You  need  not  seek  far,"  said  Percivale's  sister. 
"  Bv  God's  leave,  I  have  been  chosen  to  make  that 
girdle,  and  have  it  here." 

Then  she  opened  a  box  which  she  had  brought 
with  her,  and  took  from  it  a  girdle  that  was  richly 
wrought  with  golden  threads  and  studded  with 
precious  stones,  while  its  buckle  was  of  polished 
gold. 

"Lo,  lords  and  knights,"  she  said,  "here  is  the 
destined  girdle.     The  greater  part  of  it  was  made 


206  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

of  my  hair,  which  I  loved  dearly  when  I  was  a 
woman  of  the  world.  WTien  I  knew  that  I  was  set 
aside  for  this  high  purpose,  I  cut  off  my  hair  and 
wrought  this  girdle  in  God^s  name." 

"  Well  have  you  done !  "  cried  Bors.  "  Without 
you  we  would  have  learned  nothing  of  this  high 
emprise." 

Then  the  noble  maiden  removed  the  mean  girdle 
from  the  sword,  and  put  upon  it  the  rich  one  she 
had  brought,  which  became  it  wonderfully. 

"  By  what  name  shall  we  call  this  sword  ?  "  they 
now  asked  her. 

"  Its  name  is/'  she  answered,  "  the  sword  with 
the  strange  girdle ;  and  that  of  the  sheath  is,  mover 
of  blood.  But  no  man  with  blood  in  him  shall 
ever  see  the  part  of  the  sheath  that  was  made  of 
the  tree  of  life." 

Then  she  took  the  sword  and  girded  it  about  Gal- 
ahad, fastening  the  golden  buckle  about  his  waist. 

"  Now  reck  I  not  though  I  die,"  she  said,  "  for 
I  hold  that  I  am  one  of  the  world's  blessed  maidens, 
since  it  has  been  given  to  me  to  arm  the  worthiest 
knight  in  the  world." 

After  this  they  left  the  magic  ship  at  her  bid- 
ding, and  entered  the  one  in  which  they  had  come. 
And  immediately  there  rose  a  great  wind  which 
blew  their  vessel  from  between  the  rocks,  and  car- 
ried it  afar  over  the  sea. 


HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  SANGREAL.    207 


CHAPTEE  VII. 

HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  SANGREAL. 

The  ship  that  bore  the  three  knights  and  the 
maiden  came  ashore  at  length  near  a  castle  in 
Scotland,  where  they  landed.  From  here  they  jour- 
neyed far,  while  many  were  their  adventures,  all 
of  which  tried  their  virtue  and  belonged  to  the  quest 
of  the  Sangreal.  In  them  all  the  sword  with  the 
strange  girdle  proved  of  such  marvellous  worth 
that  no  men,  were  they  a  hundred  in  number,  could 
stand  before  it.  • 

Finally  they  came  to  a  castle  which  had  the 
strange  custom  that  every  maiden  who  passed  that 
way  should  yield  a  dish  full  of  blood.  When  they 
asked  the  reason  of  this  dreadful  custom,  they  were 
told,— 

"  There  is  in  this  castle  a  lady  to  whom  the 
domain  belongs,  and  who  has  lain  for  years  sick  of 
a  malady  which  no  leech  can  cure.  And  a  wise 
man  has  said  that  she  can  only  be  cured  if  she  have 
a  dish  full  of  blood  from  a  pure  virgin  and  a  king's 
daughter,  with  which  to  anoint  her." 

"  Fair  knights,"  said  Percivale's  sister,  "  I  alone 
can  aid  the  sick  lady,  who  must  die  otherwise." 

"  If  you  bleed  as  they  demand,  you  may  die," 
said  Galahad.  "  Is  not  your  life  worth  more  than 
hers  ?  " 

"This  I  answer,"  said  she.  "If  I  yield  not  my 
blood  there  will  be  mortal  war  between  you  and 
the  knights  of  the  castle  to-morrow,   and   many 


208  THE  QUEST  OF  THf.  HOLY  GRAIL. 

men  must  die  that  one  woman  may  not  bleed. 
If  I  die  to  heal  the  sick  lady  I  shall  gain  renown 
and  do  God's  will,  and  surely  one  harm  is  better 
than  many.  That  you  will  fight  for  me  to  the 
death,  I  know,  but  wherefore  should  you?^' 

Say  what  they  would,  she  held  to  her  will,  and 
the  next  morning  bade  the  people  of  the  castle 
bring  forth  the  sick  lady.  She  lay  in  great  pain 
and  suffering,  and  bent  her  eyes  pleadingly  on 
the  devoted  maiden. 

Then  Percivale's  sister  bared  her  arm,  and  bade 
them  bleed  her.  This  they  did  till  a  silver  dish 
was  filled  with  her  life  blood.  Then  she  blessed 
the  lady,  and  said, — 

"  Madam,  I  have  given  my  life  for  yours ;  for 
God's  love,  pray  for  me ! "  and  she  fell  in  a  swoon. 

Galahad  and  his  fellows  hastened  to  stanch  the 
blood,  but  it  was  too  late,  her  life  was  ebbing 
fast. 

"  Fair  brother  Percivale,^'  she  said,  "  death  is 
upon  me.  But  before  I  die  I  have  this  to  tell  you. 
It  is  written  that  I  shall  not  be  buried  in  this 
country.  When  I  am  dead,  seek  you  the  sea-shore 
near  by,  and  put  my  body  in  a  boat,  and  let  it  go 
where  fortune  bears  it.  But  when  you  three  arrive 
at  the  city  of  Sarras,  in  Palestine,  which  you  will 
in  God's  good  time,  you  shall  find  me  arrived 
there  before  you.  There  bury  me  in  consecrated 
soil.  This  further  I  may  say,  that  there  the  holy 
Grail  shall  be  achieved,  and  there  shall  Galahad 
die  and  be  buried  in  the  same  place." 

And  as  they  stood  there  weeping  beside  her  a 
voice  came  to  them,  saying, — 


HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  SANGREAL.    209 


<6 


Lords  and  comrades,  to-morrow  at  sunrise  you 
three  must  depart,  each  taking  his  own  way,  and 
you  shall  not  meet  again  till  adventure  bring  you 
to  the  maimed  king/^ 

After  that  all  was  done  as  had  been  foreseen 
and  desired.  The  maiden  died,  and  the  same  day 
the  sick  lady  was  healed,  through  the  virtue  of 
her  blood.  Then  Percivale  wrote  a  letter  telling 
who  she  was  and  what  things  she  had  done.  This 
he  put  in  her  right  hand,  and  laid  her  body  in  a 
vessel  that  was  covered  with  black  silk.  The  wind 
now  arose  and  drove.. it  far  from  the  land,  while 
all  stood  watching  it  till  it  was  out  of  sight. 

Then  they  returned  towards  the  castle.  But  sud- 
denly a  tempest  of  wind,  thunder,  and  rain  broke 
from  the  sky,  so  furious  that  the  very  earth  seemed 
to  be  torn  up.  And  as  they  looked  they  saw  the 
turrets  of  the  castle  and  part  of  its  walls  totter 
and  fall, 'and  in  a  moment  come  crashing  in  ruin 
to  the  earth. 

That  night  they  slept  in  a  chapel,  and  in  the 
morning  rode  to  the  castle,  to  see  how  it  had  fared 
in  the  storm.  But  when  they  reached  it  they  found 
it  in  ruins,  while  of  all  that  had  dwelt  there  not 
one  was  left  alive.  All  of  them,  man  and  woman 
alike,  had  fallen  victims  to  the  vengeance  of  God. 
And  they  heard  a  voice  that  said, — 

"  This  vengeance  is  for  the  shedding  of  maidens' 
blood.'' 

But  at  the  end  of  the  chapel  was  a  church-yard 
in  which  were  threescore  tombs,  over  which  it 
seemed  no  tempest  had  passed.  And  in  these  lay 
?11   the  maidens  who  had   shed   their   blood   and 

11-14 


210  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

died  martyrs  for  the  sick  lady's  sake.  On  these 
were  their  names  and  lineage,  and  all  were  of 
royal  blood,  and  twelve  of  them  kings'  daughters. 

The  knights  turned  away,  marvelling  much  at 
what  they  had  seen  and  heard. 

"  Here  we  must  part,"  said  Galahad.  "  Let  us 
pray  that  we  may  soon  meet  again.'' 

Then  they  kissed  each  other,  and  wept  at  the 
parting,  and  each  rode  his  own  way  into  the  forest 
before  them. 

But  we  must  now  leave  them  and  return  to  Lan- 
celot, whom  we  left  sorely  repentant  of  his  sins. 
After  he  departed  from  the  hermitage  he  rode 
through  many  lands  and  had  divers  adventures, 
and  in  the  end  came  to  the  sea-shore,  beside  which 
he  lay  down  and  slept. 

In  his  slumber,  words  came  to  his  ear,  saying, 
^^  Lancelot,  rise  and  take  thine  armor,  and  enter 
into  the  first  ship  that  thou  shalt  find."  On  hear- 
ing these  words  he  started  up,  and  saw  that  all 
about  him  was  strangely  clear,  the  skies  giving 
out  a  light  like  that  of  midday.  Then  he  blessed 
himself,  and  took  his  arms,  and  advanced  to  the 
strand,  where  he  saw  a  ship  without  sails  or  oars. 
This  he  entered,  as  he  had  been  bidden,  and  when 
he  was  within  it  his  heart  was  filled  with  such  joy 
as  he  had  never  before  known. 

Naught  had  he  ever  thought  of  or  desired  but 
what  seemed  come  to  him  now,  and  in  his  gladness 
he  returned  thanks  fervently  to  the  Lord. 

"  1  know  not  what  has  happened  to  me,"  he  said, 
"  but  such  joy  as  I  feel  I  never  dreamed  the  human 
heart  could  hold." 


HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  SANGREAL.    211 

Then  he  lay  down  and  slept  on  the  ship's  deck, 
and  when  he  woke  the  night  had  passed  and  it 
was  broad  day. 

And  in  the  ship  he  found  a  bed,  whereon  lay  a 
dead  lady,  with  a  letter  in  her  right  hand  which 
Lancelot  read.  From  this  he  learned  that  the  fair 
corpse  was  that  of  Percivale's  sister,  together  with 
many  of  the  strange  things  that  had  happened  to 
her  and  the  chosen  knights. 

For  a  month  or  more  Lancelot  abode  in  this  ship, 
driven  about  the  seas,  and  sustained  by  no  food, 
but  by  the  grace  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  he  prayed 
fervently  for  God's  aid  night  and  morning. 

At  length  came  a  night  when  the  ship  touched 
the  shore.  Here  he  landed,  being  somewhat  weary 
of  the  deck.  And  as  he  stood  on  the  strand  he 
heard  a  horse  approach,  and  soon  one  rode  by  that 
seemed  a  knight. 

When  he  came  to  the  ship  he  checked  his  horse 
and  alighted.  Then,  taking  the  saddle  and  bridle 
from  the  horse,  he  turned  it  free  and  entered  the 
ship.     Lancelot,  in  surprise,  drew  near. 

"  Fair  knight,''  he  said,  "  I  know  not  who  you 
are  or  why  you  come.  But  since  you  seek  passage 
on  my  ship  you  are  welcome." 

The  other  saluted  him  in  turn,  and  asked, — 

"What  is  your  name?  I  pray  you,  tell  me,  for 
my  heart  warms  strangely  towards  you." 

"  Mv  name  is  Lancelot  du  Lake." 

"  Then  are  we  well  met  indeed.  You  are  my 
father." 

"  Ah !   then  you  are  Galahad  ?  " 
Yes,  truly,"  and  as  he  spoke  he  took  off  his 


<e 


212  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

helm,  and  kneeled,  and  asked  his  blessing. 

Joyful  indeed  was  that  meeting,  and  gladly  there 
father  and  son  communed,  telling  each  other  all 
that  had  happened  to  them  since  they  left  the  court. 
When  Galahad  saw  the  dead  maiden  he  knew  her 
well,  and  told  his  father  the  story  of  the  sword, 
at  which  he  marvelled  greatly. 

"  Truly,  Galahad,^^  he  said,  "  I  n,ever  heard  of 
aught  so  strange,  and  can  well  believe  you  were 
born  for  wondrous  deeds." 

Afterwards  for  nearly  half  a  year  the  father 
and  son  dwelt  together  within  that  ship,  serving 
God  day  and  night  with  prayer  and  praise.  Now 
they  touched  on  peopled  shores,  and  now  on  desert 
islands  where  only  wild  beasts  abode,  and  perilous 
and  strange  adventures  they  met.  But  these  we 
shall  not  tell,  since  they  had  naught  to  do  with  the 
Sangreal. 

But  at  length  came  a  Monday  morning  when 
the  ship  touched  shore  at  the  edge  of  a  forest,  be- 
fore a  cross,  where  they  saw  a  knight  armed  all  in 
white,  and  leading  a  white  horse.  He  saluted  them 
courteously,  and  said, — 

"  Galahad,  you  have  been  long  enough  with  your 
father.  You  must  now  leave  the  ship,  and  take 
this  horse,  and  ride  whither  destiny  shall  lead  you 
in  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal." 

Hearing  this  command,  Galahad  kissed  his  father, 
and  bade  him  farewell,  saying, — 

"Dear  father,  I  know  not  if  we  shall  ever  meet 
again." 

"  Then  I  bid  you,"  said  Lancelot,  "  to  pray  to  the 
great  Father  that  He  hold  me  in  His  service.*^ 


HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  8ANGREAL.    213 

There  came  in  answer  a  mysterious  voice  that 
spoke  these  words, — 

"Think  each  to  do  well;  for  you  shall  never 
see  each  other  till  the  dreadful  day  of  doom/^ 

This  voice  of  destiny  affected  them  greatly,  and 
they  bade  each  other  a  tearful  farewell,  Lancelot 
begging  again  the  prayers  of  his  son  in  his  behalf. 
Then  Galahad  mounted  the  white  horse  and  rode 
into  the  forest,  while  a  wind  arose  which  blew  the 
ship  from  shore,  and  for  a  month  drove  it  up  and 
down  the  seas. 

But  at  length  came  a  night  when  it  touched 
shore  on  the  rear  side  of  a  fair  and  stately  castle. 
Brightly  shone  the  moon,  and  Lancelot  saw  an 
open  postern  in  which  stood  on  guard  two  great 
lions.     As  he  looked  he  heard  a  voice. 

"  Lancelot,"  it  said,  "  leave  this  ship  and  enter 
the  castle.  There  shalt  thou  see  a  part  of  that 
which  thou  desirest.'' 

Lancelot  at  this  armed  himself  and  went  to  the 
gate,  where  the  lions  rose  rampant  against  him. 
With  an  instinct  of  fear  he  drew  his  sword,  but 
at  that  instant  appeared  a  dwarf,  who  struck  him 
on  the  arm  so  sharply  that  the  sword  fell  from 
his  hand. 

"  Oh,  man  of  evil  hope  and  weak  belief,'^  came 
the  mysterious  voice,  "  trust  you  more  in  your 
armor  than  in  your  Maker  ?  Does  He  who  brought 
you  here  need  a  sword  for  your  protection  ?  '^ 

"  Truly  am  I  reproved,"  said  Lancelot.  "  Happy 
am  I  to  be  held  the  Tjord^s  ward  and  servant." 

He  took  up  his  sword  and  put  it  in  the  sheath, 
then  made  a  cross  on  his  forehead,  and  advanced 


214  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

to  the  lions,  which  raged  and  showed  their  teeth 
as  if  ready  to  rend  him  in  pieces.  Yet  with  a  bold 
step  and  tranquil  mien  he  passed  between  them 
unhui*t,  and  entered  the  castle. 

Through  it  he  went,  room  by  room,  passage  by 
passage,  for  every  door  stood  wide  and  no  living 
being  met  him  as  he  advanced.  Finally  he  came 
to  a  chamber  whose  door  was  closed,  and  which 
yielded  not  to  his  hand  when  he  sought  to  open 
it.  He  tried  again  with  all  his  force,  but  the  door 
resisted  his  strength. 

Then  he  listened,  and  heard  a  voice  that  sang 
more  sweetly  than  he  had  ever  heard.  And  the 
words  seemed  to  him  to  be,  "Joy  and  honor  be 
to  the  Father  of  Heaven ! " 

Lancelot  no  longer  sought  to  open  the  door,  but 
kneeled  before  it,  feeling  in  his  heart  that  the  San- 
greal  was  within  that  chamber. 

"Sweet  Father  Jesus,"  he  prayed,  "if  ever  I 
did  aught  in  thy  service,  in  pity  forgive  me  my 
sins,  and  show  me  something  of  that  which  I  seek." 

As  he  prayed  the  door  opened  without  hands, 
and  from  the  room  came  a  light  brighter  than  if 
all  the  torches  of  the  world  had  been  there.  He 
rose  in  joy  to  enter,  but  the  voice  spoke  sternly  in 
his  ear, — 

"  Forbear,  Lancelot,  and  seek  not  to  enter  here. 
If  you  enter,  you  shall  repent  it  dearly." 

Then  he  drew  back  hastily,  and  looked  into  the 
chamber,  where  he  saw  a  table  of  silver,  on  which 
was  the  holy  vessel  covered  with  red  samite,  with 
angels  about  it,  one  of  which  held  a  burning  candle 
of  wax,  and  one  a   cross.     And  before  the  holy 


HOW  LANCELOT  SAW  THE  SANGREAL.    215 

vessel  stood  a  priest,  who  seemed  to  be  serving  the 
mass.  In  front  of  the  priest  appeared  to  be  three 
men,  two  of  whom  put  the  youngest  between  the 
priest^s  hands,  who  held  him  up  high  as  if  to  show 
him.  Yet  so  heavy  seemed  the  figure  that  the 
priest  appeared  ready  to  fall  with  weakness,  and 
with  a  sudden  impulse  Lancelot  rushed  into  the 
room,  crying,  "  Fair  Lord  Jesus,  hold  it  no  sin  that 
I  help  the  good  man,  who  seems  in  utmost  need.^^ 

But  as  he  rashly  entered  and  came  towards  the 
table  of  silver,  a  breath  that  seemed  half  fire  smote 
him  so  hotly  in  the  face  that  he  fell  heavily  to  the 
earth,  and  lay  like  one  bereft  of  all  his  senses. 
Then  many  hands  seemed  to  take  him  up,  and 
bear  him  without  the  door,  where  he  lay  to  all 
seeming  dead. 

When  morning  dawned  he  was  found  there  by 
the  people  of  the  castle,  who  marvelled  how  he 
got  there,  and  could  not  be  sure  if  he  were  dead 
or  alive.  But  they  laid  him  in  a  bed,  and  watched 
him  closely,  for  days  passed  without  signs  of  life 
or  death.  At  length,  on  the  twenty-fifth  day,  he 
gave  a  deep  sigh,  and  opened  his  eyes,  and  gazed 
in  wonder  on  the  people  about  him. 

"  Why  have  you  wakened  me  ?  "  he  cried.  "  Why 
left  you  me  not  to  my  blessed  visions  ?  " 

"  What  have  you  seen  ?  ^'  they  asked,  eagerly. 

"  Such  marvels  as  no  tongue  can  tell  nor  ear 
understand,'^  he  said.  ^^And  more  had  I  seen  but 
that  my  son  was  here  before  me.  For  God's  love, 
gentlemen,  tell  me  where  I  am." 

"  Sir,  you  are  in  the  castle  of  Carbonek." 

*^  I  thank  God  of  His  great  mercy  for  what  I 


216      THE  QUEST  OP  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

have  seen,"  he  said.  "  Now  may  I  leave  the  quest 
of  the  Sangreal,  for  more  of  it  shall  I  never  see, 
and  few  men  living  shall  see  so  much." 

These  words  said,  he  arose  and  dressed  in  new 
clothing  that  they  brought  him,  and  stood  in  his 
old  strength  and  beauty  before  the  people. 

"  Sir  Lancelot !  "  they  cried,  "  is  it  you  ?  " 

"  Truly  so,"  he  answered. 

Then  word  was  bi^ought  to  King  Pellam,  the 
maimed  king,  who  now  dwelt  in  that  castle,  that 
the  knight  who  had  lain  so  long  between  death 
and  life  was  Lancelot.  Glad  was  the  king  to  hear 
this,  and  he  bade  them  bring  Lancelot  to  him. 

"Long  has  my  daughter  Elaine  been  dead,"  he 
said.  "  But  happy  she  lived  in  having  been  loved 
by  you,  and  in  the  grace  of  her  noble  son  Gala- 
had." 

"  I  was  but  cold  to  her,"  answered  Lancelot, 
"for  she  was  a  lovable  lady.  But  in  truth  I  have 
been  held  from  love  and  life's  delights,  for  my 
fate  has  not  been  my  own  to  control." 

For  four  days  he  abode  at  the  castle,  and  then 
took  his  armor  and  horse,  saying  that  now  his 
quest  of  the  Sangreal  was  done,  and  duty  bade 
him  return  to  Camelot. 

Back  tlirough  many  realms  he  rode,  and  in  time 
came  to  tlie  abbey  where  Galahad  had  won  the 
white  shield.  Here  he  spent  the  night,  and  the 
next  day  rode  into  Camelot,  where  he  was  received 
with  untold  joy  by  Arthur  and  the  queen. 

For  of  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table  who 
had  set  out  on  that  perilous  quest  more  than  half 
had  perished,  and  small  was  the  tale  of  that  gallant 


SIR  (MLAHAO'S  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  QRAIU 


I'." ! 


DEEDS  OF  THE  THREE  CHOSEN  KNIGHTS.    217 

fellowship  that  could  now  be  mustered.  So  the 
coining  of  Lancelot  filled  all  hearts  with  joy. 

Great  was  the  marvel  of  the  king  when  Lancelot 
told  him  of  what  he  had  seen  and  done,  and  of  the 
adventures  of  Galahad,  Percivale,  and  Bors. 

"  God  send  that  they  were  all  here  again,"  said 
the  king. 

" That  shall  never  he"  said  Lancelot.  "  One 
of  them  shall  come  again,  but  two  you  shall  never 
see.^^ 


CHAPTEE  VIII. 

THE  DEEDS  OF  THE  THREE  CHOSEN  KNIGHTS. 

After  Galahad  left  the  ship  and  his  father  Lan- 
celot, he  rode  far  and  had  many  adventures,  right- 
ing many  wrongs  and  achieving  many  marvels. 
Among  these  he  came  to  the  abbey  where  was  the 
ancient  King  Evelake,  who  had  laid  blind  three 
hundred  vears,  as  we  have  elsewhere  told. 

The  old  king  knew  well  that  his  deliverance 
had  come,  and  begged  to  be  embraced  by  the  pious 
youth.  No  sooner  had  he  been  clasped  in  his 
arms  than  his  sight  returned,  and  his  flesh  grew 
whole  and  young. 

"  Now,  sweet  Saviour,  my  destiny  is  fulfilled ; 
receive  thou  my  soul,'^  he  prayed. 

As  he  said  these  words  the  soul  left  his  body, 
and  the  miracle  of  his  fate  was  achieved. 

Many   days   after   this   Galahad   met   Percivale, 


218  THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

and  soon  the  two  came  upon  Bors,  as  he  rode  out 
of  a  great  forest,  that  extended  many  days^  journey 
through  the  land. 

And  so  they  rode  in  glad  companionship,  with 
many  a  tale  of  marvel  to  tell,  till  in  time  they 
came  to  the  castle  of  Carbonek,  where  they  were 
gladly  received,  for  those  in  the  castle  knew  that 
the  quest  of  the  Sangreal  was  now  wellnigh 
achieved. 

When  evening  approached,  and  the  table  for 
supper  was  set,  the  mysterious  voice  that  so  often 
had  guided  these  knights  spoke  again. 

"  They  that  are  not  worthy  to  sit  at  the  table 
of  Jesus  Christ  arise,"  it  said ;  "  for  now  shall  the 
worthiest  be  fed.'^ 

Then  all  arose  save  Eliazar,  the  son  of  King 
Pell  am,  and  a  maid  who  was  his  niece,  and  the 
three  knights.  But  as  they  sat  at  supper  nine 
other  knights,  in  full  armor,  entered  at  the  hall 
door,  and  took  off  their  helmets  and  armor,  and 
said  to  Galahad, — 

"  Sir,  we  have  come  far  and  in  haste  to  be  with 
you  at  this  table,  where  the  holy  meat  shall  be 
served." 

"  If  you  are  worthy,  you  are  welcome,"  said 
Galahad.     "Whence  come  you?^* 

Three  of  them  answered  that  they  were  from 
Gaul,  three  from  Ireland,  and  three  from  Den- 
mark, and  that  they  had  come  thither  at  the  bidding 
of  the  strange  voice. 

So  they  all  sat  at  table.  But  ere  they  began  to 
eat,  four  gentlewomen  bore  into  the  hall  a  bed, 
whereon  lay  a  man  sick,  with  a  crown  of  gold  on 
his  head.     Setting  him  down,  they  went  away. 


DEEDS  OP  THE  THREE  CHOSEN  KNIGHTS.    219 

"Galahad,  holy  knight,  you  are  welcome/^  said 
he  who  lay  in  the  bed,  raising  his  head  feebly. 
"  Long  have  I  waited  your  coming,  in  pain  and 
anguish,  since  Balin,  the  good  knight,  struck  me 
the  dolorous  stroke.  To  you  I  look  for  aid  and 
release  from  my  long  suffering.^^ 

Then  spoke  the  voice  again :  *^  There  be  those 
here  who  are  not  in  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal; 
let  them  depart."  And  the  son  and  niece  of  the 
king  rose  and  left  the  room. 

Then  there  came  suddenly  four  angels,  and  a 
man  who  bore  a  cross  and  wore  the  dress  of  a  bishop, 
whom  the  angels  placed  in  a  chair  before  the  silver 
table  of  the  Sangreal.  In  his  forehead  were  letters 
which  said,  "This  is  Joseph,  the  first  bishop  of 
Christendom." 

Next  opened  the  chamber  door,  and  angels  en- 
tered, two  bearing  wax  candles,  the  third  a  towel, 
and  the  fourth  a  spear  that  bled,  the  blood  drops 
falling  into  a  silver  vessel  which  he  held  in  his 
other  hand.  The  candles  were  set  on  the  table, 
the  towel  spread  upon  the  vessel,  and  the  spear  set 
upright  on  this. 

The  bishop  then  said  mass,  at  which  other 
strange  signs  were  seen;  for  a  figure  like  a  child, 
with  a  face  that  shone  like,  flame,  entered  into  the 
bread  of  the  sacrament.  Then  the  bishop  kissed 
Galahad,  and  bade  him  kiss  his  fellows.  This 
done,  he  said, — 

"  Servants  of  Jesus  Christ,  ye  shall  here  be  fed 
on  such  meats  as  never  knights  tasted ; "  and  with 
these  words  he  vanished. 

But  as  they  knelt  in  prayer  before  the  table. 


220      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

they  saw  come  out  of  the  holy  vessel  a  man  who 
bore  all  the  signs  of  the  passion  of  Jesus  Christ. 
And  he  took  up  the  vessel  and  bore  it  to  Galahad 
and  to  the  other  knights,  who  kneeled  to  receive  the 
sacrament;  and  so  sweet  was  it  that  their  hearts 
marvelled  and  were  filled  with  joy. 

"  Now  have  you  tasted  of  Christ's  own  iood,"  he 
said,  "  and  seem  what  you  highly  and  holily  desired. 
But  more  openly  shall  you  see  it  in  the  city  of 
Sarras,  in  the  spiritual  place.  Therefore  you  must 
go  hence,  for  this  night  the  holy  vessel  will  leave 
this  realm,  and  will  never  more  be  seen  here.  To- 
morrow you  three  shall  go  to  the  sea,  where  a  ship 
awaits  you ;  and  you  must  take  with  you  the  sword 
with  the  strange  girdle." 

"  Shall  not  these  good  knights  go  also  ?  "  asked 
Galahad. 

"  Not  so.  They  have  seen  all  that  is  fitting  to 
them.  As  for  you,  two  of  you  shall  die  in  my 
service,  and  the  third  shall  return  and  tell  what 
he  has  seen." 

Then  he  gave  them  his  blessing,  and  vanished 
from  out  their  midst. 

When  they  had  somewhat  recovered  from  the 
weight  of  these  marvels,  Galahad  went  to  the  spear 
that  lay  on  the  table,  and  touched  the  blood  with 
his  fingers,  and  with  it  anointed  the  wounds  of  the 
maimed  king.  And  at  this  touch  he  started  up 
whole  and  strong,  thanking  God  fervently  for  his 
healing. 

But  he  went  not  into  the  world  again,  but  to  a 
monastery  of  white  monks,  where  he  became  a  man 
of  holy  renown. 


•DEEDS  OF  THE  THREE  CHOSEN   KNIGHTS.     221 

At  midnight  came  a  voice  to  the  nine  knights, 
which  said,— 

"  My  sons,  and  not  my  chieftains ;  my  friends, 
and  not  my  warriors ;  go  ye  hence,  and  do  well  what 
comes  to  you,  in  my  service/^ 

"  Lord,"  they  replied,  "  wilt  thou  vouchsafe  also 
to  call  us  thy  sinners?  Thy  servants  we  shall  be 
henceforth." 

And  they  arose,  armed,  and  departed,  bidding 
a  solemn  adieu  to  the  three  knights.  When  morn- 
ing dawned  these  three  rose  also,  and  rode  till  they 
came  to  the  sea.  Here  awaited  them  the  ship  where- 
in they  had  found  the  sword  and  the  three  magic 
spindles,  and  to  their  wonder  and  delight  they 
beheld  in  its  midst  the  table  of  silver  and  the 
Sangreal,  which  was  covered  with  red  samite. 

It  was  a  joyous  company  that  sailed  over  the  sea 
in  that  magical  ship,  and  at  the  wish  of  his  com- 
rades Galahad  slept  in  the  bed  where  the  sword 
had  lain,  and  Bors  and  Percivale  on  the  deck 
beside  him. 

And  so  they  went  by  day  and  by  night,  and  at 
length  came  to  the  city  of  Sarras.  Here,  as  they 
would  have  landed,  they  saw  beside  them,  just 
come  to  shore,  the  ship  that  bore  the  corpse  of 
Percivale's  sister,  and  this  as  fair  and  as  fresh  as 
when  first  placed  within  it. 

Then  they  took  up  the  silver  table  and  bore  it 
to  the  city,  at  whose  gate  sat  an  old  and  crooked 
cripple. 

"  Come  hither,  and  help  us  carry  this  heavy 
thing,"  said  Galahad. 

"  How  shall  T  do  that  ?  I  have  not  gone  for  ten 
years  without  crutches." 


-J!si    TiiHTP*"  Inr  TTar.      <il(w  tiut  4!Iii»l  "wdl  ly 

TTmSL    ilfc     '?^!3Tn>i*     Tt*=*     ailC     TJWJi    JiQlL    BBL    3E 

-JUKI  jfcgmL  lit  VHB^  -nifiit  mic  ^CT'ing:-  hii£  Jisbeti 
'iusa  T«Hr  "nir  ^miiit  n  zit:  iMUiL— .     TTiiir  ann^.  tiipr 

^ILDM  Tl    ft   mUfT   BUUCTltr. 

<CTnfflf!:  aucuH:.  miE  if-foiie  i!i«:!fiEf»t  "HT  "?fflt  nrwm^. 
Viiia.  Tiift   ^''TT^r   if  -fsit    fir-   -a^   mii  lasszri  il 

riif?'  T.=ir»:^  init  -niML  x  -^at  "zuiy  iiui  ipiojcn:  ins? 

^-m^nsMt    im?v?!r»f   inn*  "HiEiinr    n:  riK 


Till*  iir.t""  "^-.t-T'T-^ri     rim*;  t     thhui  iil  i:i»fLr'   iT:i:zs»^iis?» 
-mri   111*^:    "rheir   -r^n.V   Tr.-rii    y-^.     "^^en   tze   jptir 

r^rnirr-^    •'rnt    f:r   T/.e    :.T:':r..s:c.er    -nrmT^^   wi&.^^e 

rhi*''  za^e  h.::ii-  Ln.t:  he  Tmiz'-imT  lie^ 

HLr  iear:!  riir^^  tlie  .-irr  into  .iiandT.  for  he 
rjid  left  no  •ni:f!«t*=iior  ro  the  thr*>n.e.  But  as  the 
Inri*  ^at  i^.  er.Gncil  riier»r  cajne  a  voiet?  that  bade 


DEEDS  OF  THE  THREE  CHOSEN  KNIGHTS.  223 

them  choose  the  youngest  of  the  three  knights  for 
their  king.  This  mysterious  behest  was  told  to  the 
citizens,  and  with  one  acclaim  they  hailed  it  as 
God's  will,  and  demanded  Galahad  as  their  king. 

Thereupon  he  became  king  of  Sarras,  though  it 
was  not  his  wish;  but  he  felt  it  to  be  God's  com- 
mand. And  when  he  came  to  the  throne  he  had 
constructed  a  chest  of  gold  and  precious  stones,  in 
which  was  placed  the  table  of  silver  with  the  holy 
vessel,  and  before  this  the  three  knights  kneeled 
and  prayed  daily  with  fervent  zeal. 

And  so  time  rolled  on  till  came  the  day  that  was 
the  anniversary  of  that  in  which  Galahad  had 
taken  the  crown.  On  this  morning  he  rose  betimes, 
and  before  the  holy  vessel  he  saw  a  man  dressed 
like  a  bishop,  while  round  about  him  was  a  great 
fellowship  of  angels. 

"  Come  forth,  thou  servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
thou  shalt  see  what  thou  hast  so  much  desired," 
said  the  bishop. 

Then  Galahad  began  to  tremble,  his  flesh  quak- 
ing in  the  presence  of  things  spiritual.  And  he 
held  his  hands  up  towards  heaven,  saying, — 

"Lord,  I  thank  thee,  for  now  my  desire  is  ful- 
filled. And  if  it  be  thy  will  that  I  should  come 
to  thee,  I  wish  no  longer  to  live." 

"  I  am  Joseph  of  Arimathea,"  said  the  strange 
presence,  "  and  am  sent  by  the  Lord  to  bear  thee 
fellowship.  Thou  resemblest  me  in  two  things; 
for  thou  hast  seen  the  highest  marvel  of  the  San- 
grea],  and  are  pure  of  heart  and  of  body.  Now 
say  farewell  to  thy  comrades,  for  thy  time  is  come 
to  depart." 


224      THE  QUEST  OF  THE  HOLY  GRAIL. 

Galahad  thereupon  went  to  Percivale  and  Bors, 
and  kissed  them,  and  commended  them  to  God, 
saying  to  Bors, — 

"  Fair  friend,  who  art  destined  to  return  to  our 
native  realm,  salute  for  me  my  lord  and  father 
Lancelot,  and  bid  him  remember  the  evils  of  this 
unstable  world,  and  bear  in  mind  the  duty  he  has 
been  taught/' 

Then  he  kneeled  before  the  table  and  prayed 
fervently,  and  suddenly  his  soul  departed  from  his 
body,  a  multitude  of  angels  bearing  it  visibly  up- 
ward toward  heaven,  in  full  view  of  his  late  com- 
rades. Also  they  saw  come  from  heaven  a  hand, 
with  no  body  visible,  and  take  up  the  holy  vessel  and 
the  spear,  and  bear  them  to  heaven.  And  from 
that  moment  no  man  ever  saw  on  earth  again  the 
blessed  Sangreal. 

Afterwards  Galahad's  body  was  buried  with  great 
honor,  and  with  many  tears  from  his  two  fellows 
and  from  the  people  whom  he  had  governed.  Then 
Percivale  betook  him  to  a  hermitage,  and  entered 
upon  a  religious  life;  while  Bors  stayed  with  him, 
but  in  secular  clothing,  for  it  was  his  purpose  to 
return  to  England. 

For  a  vear  and  two  months  Percivale  lived  thus 
the  holy  life  of  a  hermit,  and  then  he  passed  out  of 
this  world,  and  was  buried  by  Bors — who  mourned 
him  as  deeply  as  ever  man  was  mourned — ^beside 
his  sister  and  Galahad.  This  pious  office  performed. 
Sir  Bors,  the  last  of  the  three  chosen  knights,  felt 
that  his  duty  in  that  land  was  at  an  end,  and 
thereupon  took  ship  at  the  city  of  Sarras  and  sailed 
for  the  realm  of  England,  where  he  in  good  season 


i 


I 


■■ 


\\\\ 
'}.}} 


DEEDS  OF  THE  THREE  CHOSEN  KNIGHTS.     225 

arrived.  Here  he  took  horse  and  rode  in  all  haste 
to  Camelot,  where  King  Arthur  and  the  court  then 
were,  and  where  he  was  received  with  the  greatest 
joy  and  wonder,  for  so  long  had  it  been  since  any 
man  there  had  set  eyes  on  him,  that  all  believed  him 
to  be  dead. 

But  greater  than  their  wonder  was  their  admira- 
tion when  the  returned  knight  told  the  story  of 
miracle  and  adventure  which  had  befallen  him  and 
his  two  comrades,  and  the  pious  maid,  Percivale's 
sister,  and  of  the  holy  life  and  death  of  Galahad 
and  Percivale.  This  marvellous  narrative  the  king 
had  told  again  to  skilled  clerks,  that  they  might 
put  upon  record  the  wonderful  deeds  of  these  good 
knights.  And  it  was  all  written  down  in  great 
books,  which  were  put  in  safe  keeping  at  Salisbury. 

Bors  then  gave  to  Lancelot  the  message  which 
his  son  had  sent  him,  and  Lancelot  took  him  in  his 
arms,  saying,  "  Gentle  cousin,  gladly  do  I  welcome 
you  again.  Never  while  we  live  shall  we  part,  but 
shall  ever  be  true  friends  and  brothers  while  life 
may  last  to  us.'' 

And  thus  came  to  an  end  the  marvellous  and 
unparalleled  adventure  of  the  Holy  Grail. 


11-16 


BOOK  X. 

THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE   POISONING   OF   SIR   PATRI8E. 

After  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal  was  ended,  and 
all  the  knights  who  were  left  alive  had  come  again 
to  Camelot,  there  was  great  joy  in  the  court,  with 
feasts  and  merrymakings,  that  this  fortunate  rem- 
nant might  find  a  glad  welcome.  Above  all,  King 
Arthur  and  Queen  Guenever  were  full  of  joy  in 
the  return  of  Lancelot  and  Bors,  both  from  the 
love  they  bore  them  and  the  special  honor  they 
had  gained  in  the  quest. 

But,  as  is  man's  way,  holy  thoughts  vanished 
with  the  holy  task  that  gave  them  rise,  the  knights 
went  back  to  their  old  fashions  and  frailties,  and 
in  Lancelot's  heart  his  earthly  love  for  the  queen 
soon  rose  again,  and  his  love  of  heaven  and  holy 
thoughts  grew  dim  as  the  days  went  by.  Alas  that 
it  should  have  been  so !  for  such  an  unholy  passion 
could  but  lead  to  harm.  To  fatal  ills,  indeed,  it 
led,  and  to  the  end  of  Arthur's  reign  and  of  the 
worshipful  fellowship  of  the  Table  Eound,  as  it  is 
our  sorrowful  duty  now  to  tell. 

All  this  began  in  the  scandal  that  was  raised 
in  the  court  by  the  close  companionship  between 

226 


THE  POISONING  OF  SIR  PATRISE.  227 

Lancelot  and  the  queen.  Whisper  of  this  secret 
talk  at  length  came  to  that  good  knight's  ears,  and 
he  withdrew  from  Queen  Guenever  as  much  as  he 
could,  giving  himself  to  the  society  of  other  ladies 
of  the  court,  with  design  to  overcome  the  evil  activ- 
ity of  slanderous  tongues. 

This  withdrawal  filled .  the  queen  with  jealous 
anger,  and  she  accused  him  bitterly  of  coldness  in 
his  love. 

"  Madam,"  said  Lancelot,  *^  only  that  love  for 
you  clung  desperately  to  my  heart,  and  drove  out 
heavenly  thoughts,  1  should  have  gained  as  great 
honor  in  the  quest  of  the  Sangreal  as  even  my  son 
Galahad.  My  love  is  still  yours,  but  I  fear  to  show 
it,  for  there  are  those  of  the  court  who  love  me  not, 
such  as  Agravaine  and  Mordred,  and  these  evil- 
thinking  knights  are  spreading  vile  reports  wherever 
they  may.  It  is  for  this  I  make  show  of  delight 
in  other  Iddies'  society,  to  cheat  the  bitter  tongue 
of  slander." 

To  this  the  queen  listened  with  heaving  breast 
and  burning  cheek.  But  at  the  end  she  burst  into 
bitter  tears  and  sobs,  and  wept  so  long  that  Lan- 
celot stood  in  dismay.  When  she  could  speak,  she 
called  him  recreant  and  false,  declared  she  should 
never  love  him  more,  and  bade  him  leave  the  court, 
and  on  pain  of  his  head  never  come  near  her  again. 

This  filled  the  faithful  lover  with  the  deepest 
grief  and  pain;  yet  there  was  anger,  too,  for  he 
felt  that  the  queen  had  shut  her  ears  to  reason,  and 
had  let  causeless  jealousy  blind  her.  So,  without 
further  words,  he  turned  and  sought  his  room,  pre- 
pared to  leave  the  court.     He  sent  for  Hector,  Bors, 


228      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

and  Lionel,  and  told  them  what  had  happened,  and 
that  he  intended  to  leave  England  and  return  to 
his  native  land. 

"If  you  take  my  advice  you  will  do  nothing  so 
rash,"  said  Bors.  "  Know  you  not  that  women 
are  hasty  to  act,  and  quick  to  repent  ?  This  is  not 
the  first  time  the  queen  has  been  angry  with  you; 
nor  will  her  repentance  be  a  new  experience." 

"  You  speak  truly,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I  will  ride, 
therefore,  to  the  hermitage  of  Brasias,  near  Wind- 
sor, and  wait  there  till  I  hear  from  you  if  my  lady 
Guenever  changes  her  mood.  I  pray  you  do  your 
best  to  get  me  her  love  again." 

"  That  needs  no  prayer.  Well  you  know  I  will 
do  my  utmost  in  your  behalf." 

Then  Ijancelot  departed  in  haste,  none  but  Bors 
knowing  whither  he  had  gone.  But  the  queen 
showed  no  sign  of  sorrow  at  his  going,  however 
deeply  she  may  have  felt  it  in  her  heart.  In 
countenance  she  remained  serene  and  proud,  as 
though  the  world  went  well  with  her,  and  her  heart 
was  free  from  care. 

Her  desire,  indeed,  to  show  that  she  took  as  much 
joy  in  the  society  of  other  knights  as  in  that  of 
Lancelot  led  to  a  woful  and  perilous  event,  which 
we  have  next  to  describe.  For  she  gave  a  private 
dinner,  to  which  she  invited  Gawaine  and  his 
brethren  and  other  knights,  to  the  number  of 
twenty- four  in  all.  A  rich  feast  it  was,  with  all 
manner  of  dainties  and  rare  devices.  Much  was 
the  joy  and  merriment  of  the  feasting  knights. 

As  it  happened,  Gawaine  had  a  great  love  for 
fruits,  especially  apples  and  pears,  which  he  ate 


THE  POISONING  OF  SIR  PATRISE.  229 

daily  at  dinner  and  supper;  and  all  who  invited 
him  to  dine  took  care  to  provide  his  favorite  fruits. 
This  the  queen  failed  not  to  do.  But  there  was  at 
the  feast  an  enemy  of  Gawaine's,  named  Pinel  le 
Savage,  who  was  a  cousin  of  Lamorak  de  Galis, 
and  had  long  hated  Gawaine  for  the  murder  of 
that  noble  knight. 

To  obtain  revenge  on  him,  Pinel  poisoned  some 
of  the  apples,  feeling  sure  that  only  Gawaine  would 
eat  them.  But  by  unlucky  chance  a  knight  named 
Patrise,  cousin  to  Mador  de  la  Porte,  eat  one  of  the 
poisoned  apples.  So  deadly  was  the  venom  that  in 
a  moment  he  was  in  agony,  and  very  soon  it  so 
filled  his  veins  that  he  fell  dead  from  his  seat. 

Then  was  terror  and  wrath,  as  the  knights  sprang 
in  haste  and  turmoil  from  their  seats.  For  they 
saw  that  Patrise  had  been  poisoned,  and  suspicion 
naturally  fell  upon  the  queen,  the  giver  of  the  feast. 

"  My  lady,  the  queen,"  cried  Gawaine  in  anger, 
^^what  thing  is  this  we  see?  This  fate,  I  deem,  was 
meant  for  me,  since  the  fruit  was  provided  for  my 
taste.  Madam,  what  shall  I  think  ?  Has  this  good 
knight  taken  on  himself  the  death  that  was  intended 
to  be  mine  ?  " 

The  queen  made  no  answer,  being  so  confused 
and  terrified  that  she  knew  not  what  to  say. 

"  This  afl^air  shall  not  end  here,"  cried  Mador  de 
la  Porte  in  great  wrath.  "  Here  lies  a  noble  knight 
of  my  near  kindred,  slain  by  poison  and  treason. 
For  this  I  shall  have  revenge  to  the  utterance. 
Queen  Guenever,  I  hold  you  guilty  of  the  murder 
of  my  cousin,  Sir  Patrise.  T  demand  from  the  laws 
of  the  realm  and  the  justice  of  our  lord  the  king 


230      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

redress  for  this  deed.  A  knight  like  this  shall  not 
fall  unrevenged,  while  I  can  wield  spear  or  hold 
sword." 

The  queen,  at  this  hot  accusation,  looked  appeal- 
ingly  from  face  to  face;  but  all  stood  grave  and 
silent,  for  greatly  they  suspected  her  of  the  crime. 
Then,  seeing  that  she  had  not  a  friend  in  the  room, 
she  burst  into  a  passion  of  tears,  and  at  length  fell 
to  the  floor  in  a  swoon. 

The  story  of  this  sad  business  soon  spread  through 
the  court,  and  quickly  came  to  the  ears  of  the  king, 
who  hastened  to  the  banqueting  hall  full  of  trouble 
at  what  he  had  heard.  When  Mador  saw  him,  he 
again  bitterly  accused  the  queen  of  treason, — as 
murder  of  all  kinds  was  then  called. 

^^  This  is  a  serious  affair,^^  said  the  king,  gravely. 
"I,  as  a  rightful  judge,  cannot  take  the  matter 
into  mv  own  hands,  or  I  would  do  battle  in  this 
cause  myself,  for  I  know  well  that  my  wife  is 
wrongly  accused.  To  burn  a  queen  on  a  hasty 
accusation  of  crime  is  no  light  matter,  though  you 
may  deem  it  so.  Sir  Mador;  and  if  you  demand 
the  combat,  fear  not  but  a  knight  will  be  found  to 
meet  you  in  the  lists.^' 

"  My  gracious  lord,"  said  Mador,  "  you  must  hold 
me  excused,  for  though  you  are  our  king,  you  are 
a  knight  also,  and  held  by  knightly  rules.  There- 
fore, be  not  displeased  with  me,  for  all  the  knights 
here  suspect  the  queen  of  this  crime.  What  say 
you,  my  lords  ?  " 

^^  The  dinner  was  made  by  the  queen,"  they  an- 
swered. "  She  or  her  servants  must  be  held  guilty 
of  the  crime." 


THE  POISONING  OF  SIR  PATRISE.  231 

"  I  gave  this  dinner  with  a  good  will,  and  with 
no  thought  of  evil,"  said  the  queen,  sadly.  ^^  May 
God  help  me  as  an  innocent  woman,  and  visit  this 
murder  on  the  base  head  of  him  who  committed 
it.  My  king  and  husband,  to  God  I  appeal  for 
right  and  justice." 

"  And  justice  I  demand,"  said  Mador,  ^^  and  re- 
quire the  king  to  name  a  day  in  which  this  wrong 
can  be  righted." 

"  Be  it  so,  then,"  said  the  king.  "  Fifteen  days 
hence  be  thou  ready  armed  on  horseback  in  the 
meadow  beside  Winchester.  If  there  be  a  knight 
there  to  meet  you,  then  God  speed  the  right.  If 
none  meet  you,  then  my  queen  must  suffer  the 
penalty  of  the  law." 

When  Arthur  and  the  queen  had  departed,  he 
asked  her  how  this  case  befell. 

^^  God  help  me  if  I  know,"  she  answered. 

"  Where  is  Lancelot  ?  "  asked  the  king.  "If  he 
were  here,  he  would  do  battle  for  you." 

"  I  know  not,"  she  replied.  "  His  kinsmen  say 
he  has  left  the  land." 

"  How  cometh  it,"  said  the  king,  "  that  you  can- 
not keep  Lancelot  by  your  side?  If  he  were  here 
your  case  would  be  won.  Sir  Bors  will  do  battle 
in  his  place,  I  am  sure.  Go  seek  him  and  demand 
his  aid." 

This  the  queen  did,  begging  Bors  to  act  as  her 
champion;  but  he,  as  one  of  the  knights  who  had 
been  at  the  dinner,  demurred,  and  accused  her  of 
having  driven  Lancelot  from  the  country  by  her 
scorn  and  jealousy. 

Then  she  knelt  and  begged  his  aid,  and  the  king. 


232      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVEB. 

coming  in^  also  requested  his  assistance,  for  he  was 
now  sure  the  queen  had  been  unjustly  defamed. 

"  My  lord/'  answered  Bors,  "  it  is  a  great  thing 
you  require  of  me,  for  if  I  grant  your  request  I 
will  affront  many  of  my  Round  Table  comrades. 
Yet  for  your  and  Lancelot's  sake  I  will  be  the 
queen's  champion  on  the  day  appointed,  unless  it 
may  happen  that  a  better  knight  than  I  come  to 
do  battle  for  her." 

"  Will  you  promise  me  this,  on  your  faith  ? '' 
asked  the  king. 

"  I  shall  not  fail  you,"  said  Bors.  "  If  a  better 
knight  than  I  come,  the  battle  shall  be  his.  If  not, 
I  will  do  what  I  can." 

This  promise  gladdened  the  king  and  queen, 
who  thanked  Bors  heartily,  and  were  filled  with 
hope,  for  they  trusted  greatly  in  this  good  knight's 
prowess  and  skill. 

Bors,  however,  had  other  thoughts  than  they 
dreamed  of,  and  left  the  court  secretly,  riding  to 
the  hermitage  of  Brasias,  where  he  found  Lancelot 
and  told  him  of  what  had  occurred. 

"  This  happens  well,"  said  Lancelot.  "  The 
queen  shall  not  suffer.  Do  you  make  ready  for 
the  battle,  but  tarry  and  delay,  if  I  am  not  there, 
as  much  as  you  may,  till  I  arrive.  Mador  is  a 
hot  knight,  and  will  be  hasty  to  battle.  Bid  him 
cool  his  haste." 

"  Leave  that  to  me,"  said  Bors.  "  Doubt  not  that 
it  will  go  as  you  wish." 

Meanwhile  the  news  spread  throughout  the  court 
that  Bors  had  taken  on  himself  the  queen's  cham- 
pionship.    This  displeased  the  most  of  the  knights. 


THE  POISONING  OP  SIR  PATRISE.  233 

for  suspicion  of  the  queen  was  general.  On  his 
return  many  of  his  fellows  accused  him  hotly  of 
taking  on  himself  a  wrongful  quarrel. 

"  Shall  we  see  the  queen  of  our  great  lord  King 
Arthur  brought  to  shame  ?  ^'  he  demanded.  "  To 
whom  in  the  world  do  we  owe  more  ?  '^ 

"  We  love  and  honor  our  king  as  much  as  you 
.do/'  they  answered.  "  But  we  cannot  love  a  de- 
stroyer of  knights,  as  Queen  Guenever  has  proved 
herself." 

"  Fair  sirs/'  said  Bors,  "  you  speak  hastily,  me- 
thinks.  At  all  times,  so  far  as  I  know,  she  has 
been  a  maintainer,  not  a  destroyer,  of  knights, 
and  has  been  free  with  gifts  and  open-handed  in 
bounty  to  all  of  knightly  fame.  This  you  cannot 
gainsay,  nor  will  I  suffer  the  wife  of  our  noble 
king  to  be  shamefully  slain.  She  is  not  guilty  of 
Sir  Patrise's  death,  for  she  never  bore  him  ill  will, 
nor  any  other  at  that  dinner.  It  was  for  good 
will  she  invited  us  there,  and  I  doubt  not  her  inno- 
cence will  be  proved ;  for  howsoever  the  game  goeth, 
take  my  word  for  it,  some  other  than  she  is  guilty 
of  that  murder." 

This  some  began  to  believe,  convinced  by  his 
words,  but  others  still  held  their  displeasure,  be- 
lieving the  queen  guilty. 

When  at  length  the  day  that  had  been  fixed  for 
the  battle  came,  there  was  a  great  gathering  of 
knights  and  people  in  the  meadow  beside  Win- 
chester, where  the  combat  was  to  take  place.  But 
many  shuddered  when  they  saw  another  thing,  for 
an  iron  stake  was  erected,  and  fagots  heaped  round 


234      THE  LOVE  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

it,  for  the  burning  of  the  queen  should  Mador  win 
the  fight. 

Such,  indeed,  was  the  custom  of  those  days. 
Neither  for  favor,  for  love,  nor  for  kindred  could 
any  but  righteous  judgment  be  given,  as  well  upon 
a  king  as  upon  a  knight,  upon  a  queen  as  upon  a 
poor  lady,  and  death  at  the  stake  was  the  penalty 
for  those  convicted  of  murder. 

Now  there  rode  into  the  lists  Sir  Mador  de  la 
Porte,  and  took  oath  before  the  king  that  he  held 
the  queen  to  be  guilty  of  the  death  of  Sir  Patrise, 
and  would  prove  it  with  his  body  against  any  one 
who  should  say  to  the  contrary. 

Sir  Bors  followed,  and  made  oath  as  the  queen's 
champion  that  he  held  her  guiltless,  and  would 
prove  it  with  his  body,  unless  a  better  knight  came 
to  take  the  battle  on  him. 

"  Make  ready  then,"  said  Mador,  "  and  we  shall 
prove  which  is  in  the  right,  you  or  I." 

"  You  are  a  good  knight.  Sir  Mador,"  said  Bors, 
"but  I  trust  that  God  will  give  this  battle  to  jus- 
tice, not  to  prowess." 

He  continued  to  talk  and  to  make  delay  till 
Mador  called  out  impatiently, — 

"  It  seems  to  me  that  we  waste  time  and  weather. 
Either  come  and  do  battle  at  once,  or  else  say  nay." 

"  I  am  not  much  given  to  say  nay,"  answered 
Bors.  "  Take  your  horse  and  make  ready.  I  shall 
not  tarry  long,  I  promise  you." 

Then  each  departed  to  his  tent,  and  in  a  little 
while  Mador  came  into  the  field  with  his  shield  on 
his  shoulder  and  his  spear  in  his  hand.  But  he 
waited  in  vain  for  Bors. 


THE  POISONING  OP  SIR  PATRISE.  235 

*^  Where  is  your  champion  ? ''  cried  Mador  to  the 
king.     "  Bid  him  come  forth  if  he  dare ! " 

When  this  was  told  to  Bors  he  was  ashamed  to 
delay  longer,  and  mounted  his  horse  and  rode  to 
his  appointed  place.  But  as  he  did  so  he  saw  a 
knight,  mounted  on  a  white  horse,  and  bearing  a 
shield  of  strange  device,  emerge  from  a  neighboring 
wood,  and  come  up  at  all  speed.  He  continued  his 
course  till  he  came  to  Sir  Bors. 

"  Be  not  displeased,  fair  knight,"  he  said,  "  if  I 
claim  this  battle.  I  have  ridden  far  this  day  to 
have  it,  as  I  promised  you  when  we  spoke  last. 
And  for  what  you  have  done  I  thank  you." 

Then  Bors  rode  to  the  king  and  told  him  that  a 
knight  had  come  who  would  do  battle  for  the  queen 
and  relieve  him  from  the  championship. 
What  knight  is  this  ?  "  asked  the  king. 
All  I  may  say  is  that  he  covenanted  to  be  here 
to-day.  He  has  kept  his  word,  and  I  am  dis- 
charged." 

"  How  is  this  ? "  demanded  Arthur.  "  Sir 
knight,  do  you  truly  desire  to  do  battle  for  the 
queen  ?  " 

"  For  that,  and  that  alone,  came  I  hither,"  an- 
swered the  knight.  "And  I  beg  that  there  be  no 
delay,  for  when  this  battle  is  ended  I  must  depart 
in  haste  on  other  duties.  I  hold  it  a  dishonor  to 
all  those  knights  of  the  Eound  Table  that  they  can 
stand  and  see  so  noble  a  lady  and  courteous  a  queen 
as  Queen  Guenever  rebuked  and  shamed  among 
them  all.     Therefore  I  stand  as  her  champion." 

Then  all  marvelled  what  knight  this  could  be, 
for  none  suspected  him.  But  Mador  cried  impa- 
tiently to  the  king, — 


236      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

"We  lose  time  here.  If  this  knight,  whoever 
he  be,  will  have  ado  with  me,  it  is  time  to  end  words 
and  begin  deeds." 

"  You  are  hot,  Sir  Mador.  Take  care  that  your 
valor  be  ^lot  cooled,'^  said  the  other. 

They  now  moved  to  their  appointed  stations,  and 
there  couched  their  spears  and  rode  together  with 
all  the  speed  of  their  chargers.  Mador's  spear 
broke,  but  the  spear  of  his  opponent  held,  and  bore 
him  and  his  horse  backward  to  the  earth. 

But  he  sprang  lightly  from  the  saddle,  and  drew 
his  sword,  challenging  the  victor  to  do  battle  with 
him  on  foot.  This  the  other  knight  did,  springing 
quickly  to  the  ground,  and  drawing  his  sword. 
Then  they  came  eagerly  to  the  combat,  and  for  the 
space  of  near  an  hour  fought  with  the  tury  of  wild 
beasts,  for  Mador  was  a  strong  knight,  proved  in 
manv  battles. 

But  at  last  the  strange  champion  struck  his  oppo- 
nent a  blow  that  brought  him  to  the  earth.  He 
stepped  near  him  to  hurl  him  flat,  but  at  that  instant 
Mador  suddenlv  rose.  As  he  did  so  he  struck 
upward  with  his  sword,  and  ran  the  other  through 
the  thick  of  the  thigh,  so  that  the  blood  flowed 
freely. 

When  he  felt  himself  wounded  he  stepped  back 
in  a  rage,  and  grasping  his  sword  struck  Mador 
a  two-handed  blow  that  hurled  him  flat  to  the 
earth.  Then  he  sprang  upon  him  to  pull  ofl^  his 
helm. 

"  I  yield  me  !  "  cried  Mador.  "  Spare  my  life, 
and  I  release  the  queen." 

"  I   shall   not  grant  your  life,"  said  the  other. 


THE   POISONING  OF  SIR  PATRISE.  237 

"only  on  condition  that  you  freely  withdraw  this 
accusation  from  the  queen,  and  that  no  charge 
against  her  be  made  on  Sir  Patrise^s  tomb/' 

"All  this  shall  be  done.  I  have  lost,  and  ad- 
judge her  innocent/' 

The  knights-parters  of  the  lists  now  took  up  Sir 
Mador  and  bore  him  to  his  tent.  The  other  knight 
went  to  the  foot  of  King  Arthur's  seat.  By  that 
time  the  queen  had  come  thither  also,  and  was 
heartily  kissed  by  her  overjoyed  lord.  Then  king 
and  queen  alike  thanked  the  victor  knight,  and 
prayed  him  to  take  off  his  helmet,  and  drink  some 
wine  for  refreshment.  This  he  did,  and  on  the 
instant  a  loud  shout  went  up  from  all  present,  for 
they  recognized  the  noble  face  of  Lancelot  du  Lake. 

"  Sir  Lancelot !  "  cried  the  king.  "  Never  were 
you  more  heartily  welcome.  Deep  thanks  I  and 
Queen  Guenever  owe  you  for  your  noble  labor  this 
day  in  our  behalf." 

"  My  lord  Arthur,"  said  Lancelot,  "  I  would 
shame  myself  should  I  ever  fail  to  do  battle  for 
you  both.  It  was  you  who  gave  me  the  high  honor 
of  knighthood.  And  on  the  day  you  made  me 
knight  I  lost  my  sword  through  haste,  and  the 
lady  your  queen  found  it  and  gave  it  me  when  I 
had  need  of  it,  and  so  saved  me  from  disgrace 
among  the  knights.  On  that  day  I  promised  her 
to  be  ever  her  knight  in  right  or  wrong." 

"  Your  goodness  merits  reward,"  said  the  king, 
"  and  therein  I  shall  not  fail  you." 

But  as  the  queen  gazed  on  Lancelot,  tears  came 
to  her  eyes,  and  she  wept  so  tenderly  that  she 
almost  sank  to  the  ground  from  sorrow  and  remorse 


238      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVEB. 

at  her  unkindness  to  him  who  had  done  her  such 
noble  service. 

Now  the  knights  of  his  blood  came  around  Lan- 
celot in  the  greatest  joy,  and  all  the  Knights  of 
the  Round  Table  after  them,  glad  to  welcome  him. 

And  in  the  days  that  followed  Lancelot  was  cured 
of  his  wound,  and  Mador  put  under  the  care  of 
skilful  leeches,  while  great  joy  and  gladness  reigned 
in  the  court  for  the  happy  issue  of  that  combat 
which  had  promised  so  fatal  an  ending. 

About  this  time  it  befel  that  Nimue,  the  damsel 
of  the  lake,  came  to  the  court,  she  who  knew  so 
many  things  by  her  power  of  enchantment,  and 
had  such  great  love  for  Arthur  and  his  knights. 
When  the  story  of  the  death  of  Sir  Patrise  and 
the  peril  of  the  queen  was  told  her,  she  answered 
openly  that  the  queen  had  been  falsely  accused, 
and  that  the  real  murderer  was  Sir  Pinel,  who 
had  poisoned  the  apples  to  destroy  Gawaine,  in 
revenge  for  the  murder  of  Lamorak.  This  story 
was  confirmed  when  Pinel  fled  hastily  from  the 
court,  for  then  all  saw  clearly  that  Guenever  was 
innocent  of  the  crime. 

The  slain  knight  was  buried  in  the  church  of 
Westminster,  and  on  his  tomb  was  written, — 

"  Here  lieth  Sir  Patrise  of  Ireland,  slain  by  Sir 
Pinel  Ic  Savage,  through  poisoned  apples  intended 
for  Sir  Gawaine."  And  to  this  was  added  the  story 
of  how  Guenever  the  queen  had  been  charged  with 
that  crime,  and  had  been  cleared  in  the  combat  by 
Sir  Lancelot  du  Lake,  her  champion. 

All  this  was  written  on  the  tomb,  to  clear  the 
queen's  good  fame.     And  daily  and  long  Sir  Mador 


THE  LILY  MAID  OF  ASTOLAT.  239 

sued  the  queen  to  have  her  good  grace  again.  At 
length,  by  means  of  Lancelot,  he  was  forgiven,  and 
entered  again  into  the  grace  of  king  and  queen. 
Thus  once  more  peace  and  good-will  were  restored 
to  Camelot. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE  LILY  MAID  OF  ASTOLAT. 

It  came  to  pass  that,  within  fifteen  days  of  the 
Feast  of  the  Assumption,  King  Arthur  announced 
that  a  great  tournament  would  be  held  on  that 
day  at  Camelot,  where  he  and  the  king  of  Scots 
would  hold  the  lists  against  all  who  should  come. 
This  tidings  went  far,  and  there  came  to  Camelot 
many  noble  knights,  among  them  the  king  of  I^orth 
Wales,  King  Anguish  of  Ireland,  the  king  with  the 
hundred  knights.  Sir  Galahalt  the  high  prince, 
and  other  kings,  dukes,  and  earls. 

But  when  Arthur  was  ready  to  ride  from  Lon- 
don, where  he  then  was,  to  Camelot,  the  queen 
begged  to  be  excused  from  going  with  him,  saying 
that  she  was  not  well.  Lancelot,  too,  would  not 
go,  on  the  plea  that  he  was  not  well  of  the  wound 
which  Sir  Ma  dor  had  given  him.  So  the  king  set 
out  in  grief  and  anger,  for  the  absence  of  his  wife 
and  Lancelot  tried  him  sorely.  On  his  way  to 
Camelot  he  lodged  in  a  town  named  x\stolat,  which 


240      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

is  now  known  as  Gilford,  and  here  he  remained 
for  several  days. 

But  hardly  had  he  departed  before  the  queen 
sought  Lancelot,  and  blamed  him  severely  for  not 
going  with  the  king,  saying  that  he  thus  exposed. 
her  to  slander. 

"  Madam,  your  wisdom  .comes  somewhat  late. 
Why  gave  you  not  this  advice  sooner  ?  "  said  Lan- 
celot. "  I  will  go,  since  you  command  it ;  but 
I  warn  you  that  at  the  jousts  I  will  fight  against 
the  king  and  his  party.^' 

"  Fight  as  you  will,  but  go,"  said  Guenever.  "  If 
you  take  my  counsel,  however,  you  will  keep  with 
your  king  and  your  kindred." 

"  Be  not  displeased  with  me,  madam,"  said  Lan- 
celot. "  I  will  do  as  God  wills,  and  that,  I  fear, 
will  be  to  fight  against  the  king's  party." 

So  the  knight  took  horse  and  rode  to  Astolat,  and 
here  in  the  evening  he  obtained  quarters  in  the 
mansion  of  an  old  baron,  named  Sir  Bernard  of 
Astolat.  It  happened  that  this  mansion  was  near 
the  quarters  of  the  king,  who,  as  in  the  dusk  he 
walked  in  the  castle  garden,  saw  Lancelot  draw 
near  to  Sir  Bernard's  door,  and  recognized  him. 

"  x4Lha  !  "  said  the  king,  "  is  that  the  game  ?  That 
gives  me  comfort.  I  shall  have  one  knight  in  the 
lists  who  will  do  his  duty  nobly." 

"  Who  is  that  ?  "  asked  those  with  him. 

"Ask  me  not  now,"  said  the  king,  smiling. 
"You  may  learn  later." 

Meanwhile  Lancelot  was  hospitably  received  by 
the  old  baron,  though  the  latter  knew  not  his  guest. 

"  Dear  sir,"  said  Lancelot  to  his  host,  "  I  thank 


THE   LILY  MAID  OF  ASTOLAT.  241 

you  for  your  kindness,  and  I  shall  owe  you  deeper 
thanks  if  you  will  lend  me  a  shield.  Mine  is  too 
well  known,  and  I  wish  to  fight  in  disguise." 

"  That  shall  I  willingly,"  answered  his  host.  '^  I 
have  two  sons  who  were  lately  knighted,  and  the 
elder.  Sir  Tirre,  has  been  hurt.  His  shield  you 
shall  have,  for  it  is  yet  unknown  in  list  or  field. 
As  for  my  younger  son,  Sir  Lavaine,  he  is  a  strong 
and  likely  youth,  whom  I  beg  you  will  take  with 
you.  I  feel  that  you  must  be  a  champion  of  re- 
nown, and  hope  you  will  tell  me  your  name."    . 

"  Not  at  present,  if  you  will  excuse  me,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  If  I  speed  well  at  the  tournament  I 
will  return  and  tell  you.  But  I  shall  be  glad  to 
have  Sir  Lavaine  with  me,  and  to  use  his  brother's 
shield." 

"  You  are  welcome  to  both,"  said  Sir  Bernard. 

This  old  baron  had  a  daughter  of  great  beauty, 
and  in  the  freshness  of  youth,  who  was  known 
in  that  region  as  the  Fair  Maid  of  Astolat,  by  name 
Elaine  le  Blank.  And  when  she  saw  Lancelot  her 
whole  heart  went  out  to  him  in  love, — a  love  of 
that  ardent  nature  that  never  dies  while  she  who 
wears  it  lives. 

Lancelot,  too,  was  strongly  attracted  by  her  fresh 
young  face,  of  lily-like  charm ;  but  he  had  no  love 
to  give.  Yet  he  spoke  in  tender  kindness  to  the 
maiden,  and  so  emboldened  her  that  she  begged  him 
to  wear  her  token  at  the  tournament. 

"  You  ask  more  than  I  have  ever  yet  granted 
to  lady  or  damsel,"  said  Lancelot.  "  If  I  yield  to 
your  wish  I  shall  do  more  for  your  love  than  any 
woman  born  can  claim." 

11-16 


242      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

She  besought  him  now  with  still  more  earnest- 
ness, and  it  came  to  his  mind  that  if  he  wished  to 
go  to  the  lists  disguised  he  could  take  no  better 
method,  for  no  one  would  recognise  Lancelot  under 
a  damsel's  token. 

"Show  me  what  you  would  have  me  wear,  fair 
maiden,^'  he  said. 

"  It  is  a  red  sleeve  of  mine,''  she  answered,  "  a 
sleeve  of  scarlet,  embroidered  with  great  pearls," 
and  she  brought  it  to  him. 

"  I  have  never  done  this  for  damsel  before,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  In  return  I  will  leave  my  shield  in 
your  keeping.  Pray  keep  it  safe  till  we  meet 
again." 

Then  the  evening  was  spent  in  merry  cheer; 
but  that  night  Elaine  slept  but  lightly,  for  her 
slumber  was  full  of  dreams  of  Lancelot,  and  her 
heart  burned  with  fears  that  he  might  come  to 
harm  in  the  lists. 

On  the  next  day  King  Arthur  and  his  knights 
set  out  for  Camelot.  Soon  afterwards  T^ancelot  and 
Lavaine  took  leave  of  Sir  Bernard  and  his  fair 
daughter,  while  the  eyes  of  Elaine  followed  the 
noble  form  of  Lancelot  fondly  and  far,  as  he  rode. 
Both  the  knights  had  white  shields,  and'  Lancelot 
bore  with  him  Elaine's  red  embroidered  sleeve. 
When  they  reached  Camelot  they  took  lodging  pri- 
vately with  a  rich  burgess  of  the  town,  that  none 
might  know  them. 

When  came  Assumption  Day,  the  lists  were  set, 
the  trumpets  blew  to  the  field,  the  two  parties  of 
knights  gathered  promptly  to  the  fray,  and  fierce 
was  the  encounter  between  them.     In  the  end,  after 


THE  LILY  MAID  OF  ASTOLAT.  243 

hard  fighting,  the  party  of  Arthur  bore  back  their 
opponents,  who  were  headed  by  the  kings  of  North- 
umberland and  North  Wales. 

All  this  was  seen  bv  Lancelot  and  Lavaine,  who 
sat  their  horses  at  a  distance  looking  on. 

"  Come/'  said  Lancelot,  "  let  us  help  these  good 
fellows,  who  seem  to  be  overpowered.'' 

"  Ijead  on,"  said  Lavaine.  "  I  shall  follow  and 
do  mv  best." 

Then  Lancelot,  with  the  red  sleeve  fastened  upon 
his  helmet,  rode  into  the  thickest  of  the  press,  and 
smote  down  such  numbers  of  knights  with  spear 
and  sword  that  the  party  of  the  Round  Table  were 
forced  to  give  back,  and  their  opponents  came  on 
with  fresh  heart.  And  close  upon  Lancelot's  track 
Lavaine  smote  down  several  good  knights. 

"Who  can  this  wonderful  fighter  be?"  asked 
Gawaine  of  the  king. 

"I  know  him  well,"  said  Arthur,  "but  will  not 
name  him  since  he  is  in  disguise." 

"  I  could  believe  it  was  Lancelot,"  said  Gawaine, 
"  but  for  that  red  sleeve.  No  man  ever  saw  Lan- 
celot wear  a  woman's  token." 

"  Let  him  be,"  said  Arthur.  "  He  will  be  better 
known  before  he  is  done." 

Then  nine  knights  of  Lancelot's  kindred,  angry 
at  seeing  this  one  champion  beat  down  all  before 
him,  joined  together  and  pressed  hotly  into  the 
din,  smiting  down  all  that  opposed  them.  Three 
of  them — Bors,  Hector,  and  Lionel — spurred  to- 
gether on  Lancelot,  all  striking  him  at  once  with 
their  spears.  So  great  was  their  force  that  Lance- 
lot's horse  was  hurled  to  the  ground,  and  his  shield 


244      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

pierced  by  Bors,  whose  spear  wounded  him  in  the 
side,  breaking  and  leaving  its  head  deep  in  the 
flesh. 

Seeing  this  misfortune,  Lavaine  spurred  fiercely 
on  the  king  of  the  Scots,  thrust  him  from  his  horse, 
and,  in  despite  of  them  all,  brought  that  horse  to 
Lancelot,  and  helped  him  to  mount.  Then,  though 
so  sorely  hurt,  Lancelot  drew  his  sword,  and,  aided 
by  Lavaine,  did  such  deeds  of  arms  as  he  had  never 
surpassed  in  his  hours  of  greatest  strength.  As 
the  chronicles  say,  that  day  he  unhorsed  more  than 
thirty  knights;  and  Lavaine  followed  his  example 
well,  for  he  smote  down  ten  Knights  of  the  Round 
Table  in  this  his  first  tournament.  So  does  a  noble 
example  stir  young  hearts. 

"  I  would  give  much  to  know  who  this  valiant 
knight  can  be,^^  said  Gawaine. 

"  He  will  be  known  before  he  departs,''  answered 
Arthur.     "  Trust  me  for  that." 

Then  the  king  blew  to  lodging,  and  the  prize  was 
given  by  the  heralds  to  the  knight  with  the  white 
shield  who  bore  the  red  sleeve.  Around  Lancelot 
gathered  the  leaders  on  his  side,  and  thanked  him 
warmlv  for  ^^aiiiinff  them  the  victorv. 

"  If  T  have  deserved  thanks  I  have  sorely  paid 
for  them,''  said  Lancelot,  "  for  I  doubt  if  I  escape 
with  my  life.  Dear  sirs,  permit  me  to  depart,  for 
just  now  I  would  rather  have  repose  than  be  lord 
of  all  the  world." 

Then  he  ])roke  from  them  and  galloped  away, 
though  his  wound  forced  piteous  groans  from  his 
steadfast  heart.  When  out  of  sight  of  them  all  he 
checked  his  horse,  and  begged  Lavaine  to  help  him 


THE  LILY  MAID  OF  ASTOLAT.  245 

dismount  and  to  draw  the  spear-head  from  his  side. 

"  My  lord/^  said  Lavaine,  "  I  would  fain  help 
you ;  yet  I  fear  that  to  draw  the  spear  will  be  your 
death/' 

^'  It  will  be  my  death  if  it  remains/'  said  Lance- 
lot.    "  I  charge  you  to  draw  it." 

This  Lavaine  did,  the  pain  being  so  deadly  that 
Lancelot  shrieked  and  fell  into  a  death-like  swoon, 
while  a  full  pint  of  blood  gushed  from  the  wound. 
Lavaine  stopped  the  bleeding  as  well  as  he  could, 
and  with  great  trouble  got  the  wounded  knight  to 
a  neighboring  hermitage,  that  stood  in  front  of  a 
great  cliff,  with  a  clear  stream  running  by  its  foot. 

Here  Lavaine  beat  on  the  door  with  the  butt  of 
his  spear,  and  cried  loudly, — 

"  Open,  for  Jesus'  sake !  Open,  for  a  noble 
knight  lies  bleeding  to  death  at  your  gate !  " 

This  loud  appeal  quickly  brought  out  the  hermit, 
who  was  named  Baldwin  of  Brittany,  and  had  once 
been  a  Eound  Table  knight.  He  gazed  with  pity 
and  alarm  on  the  pale  face  and  bleeding  form  before 
him. 

"  I  should  know  this  knight,"  he  said.  "  Who 
is  he?" 

"  Fair  sir,"  said  Lancelot,  feebly,  "  I  am  a 
stranger  and  a  knight-errant,  who  have  sought  re- 
nown through  many  realms,  and  have  come  here  to 
my  deadly  peril." 

As  he  spoke  the  hermit  recognized  him,  by  a 
wound  on  his  pallid  cheek. 

"  Ah,  my  lord  Lancelot,"  he  said,  "  you  cannot 
deceive  me  thus." 

"  Then,  if  you  know  me,  help  me  for  heaven's 


246      THE  LOVE  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

sake.     Relieve  me  from  this  pain,  whether  it  be  by 
life  or  death/' 

"  I  shall  do  my  best/'  said  the  hermit.  "  Fear 
not  that  you  will  die.'' 

Then  he  had  him  borne  into  the  hermitage,  and 
laid  in  bed,  his  armor  being  removed.  This  done, 
the  hermit  stanched  the  bleeding,  anointed  the 
wound  with  healing  ointments,  and  gave  Lancelot 
a  refreshing  and  healing  draught. 

Meanwhile  King  Arthur  invited  the  knights  of 
both  parties  to  a  great  evening  feast,  and  there  asked 
the  king  of  North  Wales  to  bring  forward  the  knight 
of  the  red  sleeve,  that  he  might  receive  the  prize  he 
had  won. 

"  That  I  cannot  do,"  was  the  answer.  ^^  He  was 
badly,  if  not  fatally,  wounded,  and  left  us  so  has- 
tily that  we  know  not  whither  he  went." 

"  That  is  the  worst  news  I  have  heard  these  seven 
years,"  said  Arthur.  "  I  would  rather  lose  my 
throne  than  have  that  noble  knight  slain." 

"  Do  you  know  him  ?  "  they  all  asked. 

"  I  have  a  shrewd  suspicion  who  he  is ;  and  I 
pray  God  for  good  tidings  of  him." 

"  By  my  head,"  said  Gawaine,  "  I  should  be  sorry 
enough  to  see  harm  come  to  one  that  can  handle 
spear  and  sword  like  him.  He  cannot  be  far  away, 
and  if  he  is  to  be  found  I  shall  find  him." 

"  Fortune  aid  you  in  the  quest,"  said  the  king. 

Then  Gawaine  took  a  squire,  and  they  rode  in  all 
directions  for  six  or  seven  miles  around  Camelot, 
but  could  learn  nothing  of  the  missing  knight. 
Two  days  afterwards  Arthur  and  his  fellowship  set 
out  on  their  return  to  Ijondon.     On  their  way  they 


THE  LILY  MAID  OP  ASTOLAT.  247 

passed  through  Astolat,  and  here  it  happened  that 
Gawaine  lodged  with  Sir  Bernard,  Lancelot's  former 
host. 

He  was  well  received,  and  the  old  baron  and  his 
fair  daughter  begged  him  earnestly  for  tidings  of 
the  tournament,  being  specially  eager  to  know  who 
had  done  best  there. 

"  Two  knights  bore  all  before  them,"  said  Ga- 
waine. "Both  carried  white  shields,  and  one  wore 
on  his  helmet  a  red  sleeve,  as  some  fair  lady's  token. 
Xever  saw  I  a  man  before  do  such  mighty  deeds, 
and  his  fellow  seconded  him  nobly." 

"Blessed  be  God  that  that  knight  did  so  well," 
broke  out  Elaine,  "for  he  is  the  first  man  I  ever 
loved,  and  shall  be  the  last." 

"  You  know  him  then  ?  "  said  Gawaine.  "  Pray 
tell  me  his  name."  ♦ 

"  That  I  know  not,  nor  whence  he  came ;  but 
this  I  truly  know,  that  I  love  him,  and  that  the 
token  he  wore  was  mine.  This,  and  this  only,  I 
can  justly  affirm." 

"  This  is  a  strange  story,"  said  Gawaine.  "  What 
knowledge  have  you  of  him?  and  how  came  you 
to  know  him?" 

In  response,  she  told  him  how  the  knight  had 
left  his  shield  with  her,  and  taken  that  of  her 
brother,  with  what  else  she  knew. 

"  I  would  thank  you  much  for  a  sight  of  that 
shield,"  said  Gawaine. 

"  I  have  it  in  my  chamber,  covered  with  a  case, 
and  will  send  for  it,"  said  Elaine. 

When  the  shield  was  brought  Gawailie  removed 
the  case,  and  at  sight  he  knew  it  to.be  Lancelot's 
shield. 


248   THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AN©  GUEl^EVER. 

"  Ah,  mercy !  ^'  said  Gawaine,  "  the  sight  of  this 
makes  my  heart  heavy/' 

"  Why  so  ?  "   she  demanded. 

"  For  good  cause/'  he  answered.  "  Is  the  owner 
of  this  shield  your  love  ?  " 

"  Truly  so/'  she  replied.  "  I  love  him  dearly ; 
would  to  God  he  loved  me  as  dearly." 

"  Then  must  I  say  that  you  have  given  your  love 
to  the  noblest  and  most  renowned  knight  in  the 
world." 

"  So  it  seemed  to  me ;  for  he  carries  a  noble  soul 
in  his  face." 

"This  I  may  say/'  said  Gawaine.  "I  have 
known  this  knight  for  more  than  twenty  years,  and 
never  knew  him  before  to  wear  a  woman's  token  at 
joust  or  tournament.  You  owe  him  thanks,  indeed, 
that  he  wore  yours.  Yet  I  dread  greatly  that  you 
will  never  see  him  again,  and  it  is  for  this  that  my 
heart  is  heavy." 

"  Why  say  you  so  ?  "  she  cried,  starting  up  with 
pallid  face.     "  Is  he  hurt  ?     Is  he  slain  ?  '* 

"  Not  slain ;  but  sadly  hurt.  This  more  it  is  my 
duty  to  tell  you:  he  is  the  noble  knight.  Sir  Lan- 
celot du  Lake.     I  know  him  by  his  shield." 

"  Lancelot !  Can  this  be  so  ?  And  his  hurt — 
who  gave  it  ?     Is  it  really  perilous  ?  " 

"  Had  the  knight  who  wounded  him  known  him, 
he  would  have  been  grieved  almost  to  death.  As  for 
Sir  Lancelot,  I  can  tell  you  nothing  more.  On  re- 
ceiving his  hurt  he  left  the  lists  with  his  comrade, 
and  cannot  bo  found.  He  is  somewhere  concealed." 
Then  shall  I  go  seek  him ! "  cried  Elaine. 
Give  me  leave  to  dp  so,  dear  father,  if  you  would 


6C 


THE  LILY  MAID  OP  ASTOLAT.  249 

not  have  me  lose  my  mind.  I  shall  never  rest  till 
I  find  him  and  my  brother,  and  nurse  him  back 
to  health/^ 

"  Go,  daughter,  if  you  will,^^  said  her  father,  ^^  for 
I  am  sick  at  heart  to  hear  such  tidings  of  that  noble 
knight/^ 

In  the  morning  Gawaine  rejoined  King  Arthur, 
and  told  him  of  what  he  had  learned. 

"I  knew  already  it  was  Lancelot,"  said  the  king; 
"but  never  before  knew  I  him  to  wear  woman^s 
token." 

"By  my  faith,  this  lily  maiden  of  Astolat  loves 
him  deeply,"  said  Gawaine.  "What  it  means  I 
cannot  say,  but  she  has  set  out  to  seek  him,  and  will 
break  her  heart  if  she  fail  to  find  him." 

And  so  they  rode  on  to  London,  where  Gawaine 
made  known  to  the  court  that  it  was  Lancelot  who 
wore  the  red  sleeve  and  won  the  prize  at  the  tourna- 
ment. 

This  tidings  made  no  small  trouble  in  the  court. 
Bors  and  his  kinsmen  were  heavy  at  heart  when 
they  learned  that  it  was  Lancelot  whom  they  had  so 
hotly  assailed.  And  Queen  Guenever  was  beside 
herself  with  anger  on  learning  that  it  was  Lancelot 
who  had  worn  the  red  sleeve  at  the  tournament. 

Meanwhile  Elaine  journeyed  to  Camelot  in  search 
of  the  wounded  knight,  and  as  she  sought  far  and 
near  about  the  town,  sick  at  heart,  it  chanced  that 
she  espied  her  brother  Lavaine,  as  he  rode  out  to 
give  his  horse  air.  She  called  loudly  to  him,  and 
when  he  came  up  asked  him, — 

"  How  does  my  lord,  Sir  Lancelot  ?  " 

"  Who  told  you,  sister,  that  my  lord's  name  was 
Lancelot  ?  " 


i 


250   THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

She  told  him  how  she  had  learned  this,  and  they 
rode  together  to  the  hermitage,  where  Lavaine 
brought  her  in  to  see  the  wounded  knight. 

But  when  she  saw  him  lying  there  so  sick  and 
pale,  and  with  a  death-like  hue  upon  his  face,  she 
stood  gazing  upon  him  with  dilated  eyes  and  whiten- 
ing face,  and  then  suddenly  fell  to  the  floor  in  a 
deep  swoon. 

"  I  pray  you,  Ijavaine,  take  her  up  and  bring  her 
to  me,^^  said  Lancelot. 

When  she  was  brought  near  him  he  kissed  her 
pale  face,  and  at  the  touch  of  his  lips  her  cheeks 
flamed  out  with  red,  and  life  came  back  to  her. 

"  Fair  maiden,^'  said  Lancelot,  "  it  pains  me  to  see 
you  so  deeply  afflicted.  Comfort  yourself,  I  pray 
you.  If  you  come  here  to  my  aid  you  are  truly 
welcome;  but  let  not  this  little  hurt  trouble  you; 
I  shall  soon  be  well  of  it.'' 

Then  they  fell  into  discourse,  and  Elaine  told 
Lancelot  how  Gawaine  had  seen  and  known  his 
shield.  This  gave  him  no  small  trouble,  for  he 
knew  well  that  the  story  of  the  red  scarf  would  get 
to  Queen  Guenever's  ears,  and  he  feared  its  effect 
on  her  hasty  and  jealous  temper.  But  Elaine  never 
left  Lancelot,  but  watched  him  day  and  night, 
nursing  him  back  to  health. 


HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE.  251 


CHAPTER  III. 

HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE. 

When  Sir  Bors  learned  that  his  unlucky  blow 
had  brought  Lancelot  nearly  to  death's  door,  he 
became  sore  indeed  at  heart,  and  hastened  to  Came- 
lot  in  search  of  his  noble  kinsman.  Here  he  met 
Lavaine,  who  knew  him  and  conducted  him  to  the 
bedside  of  the  wounded  knight. 

When  he  saw  the  pale  and  haggard  countenance 
of  Lancelot,  he  fell  into  a  passion  of  tears,  and 
accused  himself  bitterly.  But  Lancelot  consoled 
him  as  well  as  he  could,  declaring  that  the  fault  was 
his  own,  and  that  he  would  bear  the  blame.  Then 
Bors  told  him  of  the  anger  of  the  queen,  and  of  his 
earnest  but  vain  endeavor  to  overcome  it. 

"  I  deserve  it  not,''  said  Lancelot.  "  I  wore  the 
sleeve  only  by  way  of  disguise.  As  for  Gawaine,  be 
would  have  shown  more  wisdom  and  friendship  had 
he  been  less  free  of  speech." 

"  I  told  her  all  this,"  said  Bors,  "  but  she  was 
past  listening  to  reason.  Is  this  maiden,  who  is  so 
busy  about  you,  she  whom  they  call  the  lily  of 
Astolat  ?  " 

"  She  it  is,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I  cannot  by  any 
means  put  her  from  me." 

"  Why  should  yoii  ? "  asked  Bors.  "  She  is  a 
beautiful  and  tender-hearted  damsel.  Would  to 
God,  fair  cousin,  yoii  could  love  her,  for  I  see  well, 
by  her  gentle  and  close  care  of  you,  that  she  loves 
you  devoutedly." 


252      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

"  That  I  am  sorry  for,"  said  Lancelot. 

"  She  will  not  he  the  first  that  has  loved  you  in 
vain/^  said  Bors ;  "  the  more  the  pity/' 

Many  other  things  they  talked  of,  and  Lancelot 
found  such  comfort  in  the  presence  of  Sir  Bors  that 
in  a  few  days  he  showed  great  signs  of  improvement. 
Then  Bors  told  him  of  another  tournament  that 
King  Arthur  had  ordered,  to  be  held  at  Camelot  on 
All-hallo wm  as  day,  between  his^  party  and  that  of 
the  king  of  North  Wales. 

This  filled  Lancelot  with  an  earnest  desire  to 
grow  strong,  and  during  the  following  month,  under 
the  kind  care  of  his  cousin,  and  the  gentle  ministra- 
tions of  Elaine,  he  improved  greatly  in  health.  For 
Elaine  waited  upon  him  with  loving  diligence  night 
and  day,  and  never  was  child  or  wife  more  gentle 
and  heedful  to  father  or  husband  than  this  fair 
maid  of  Astolat  to  the  wounded  knight. 

At  length  came  a  day  when  Lancelot  felt  so  much 
stronger,  through  the  healing  influence  of  a  bath  of 
herbs  which  the  hermit  had  gathered  in  the  woods, 
that  he  determined  to  try  if  he  could  wear  his  armor 
and  sit  in  his  saddle.  He  thereupon  armed  and 
had  his  horse  brought  out.  Mounting  the  mettled 
charger,  in  the  high  spirit  of  new  health  he  spurred 
it  to  full  speed. 

But  the  courser's  long  rest  in  the  stable  had  made 
it  fresh  and  fierce,  and  on  feeling  the  spurs  it  leaped 
forward  so  violently  that  Lancelot's  wound  burst 
open  in  the  strain,  and  the  blood  gushed  out  again. 

"  Bors !  Lavaine !  help !  "  he  feebly  cried.  "  I 
am  come  to  my  end." 


HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE.  253 

As  he  spoke  he  fell  from  his  horse  to  the  earth, 
and  lay  there  like  a  corpse. 

The  two  knights  hurried  up,  full  of  fearful  con- 
cern, and  when  Elaine,  who  had  heard  the  pitiful 
call,  came  flying  to  the  spot,  she  threw  herself  on 
the  prostrate  form,  weeping  like  one  beside  herself 
with  grief,  and  kissing  the  insensible  knight  as  if  she 
hoped  thus  to  recall  him  to  life. 

"  Traitors  you  are !  ^'  she  cried  wildly  to  her 
brother  and  Sir^ors.  "Why  did  you  let  him  leave 
his  bed  ?     I  holcryou  guilty  of  his  death." 

At  this  moment  the  hermit  Baldwin  appeared. 
When  he  saw  Lancelot  in  that  plight  he  grew  angry 
at  heart,  though  he  checked  the  reproachful  words 
that  rose  to  his  lips. 

"  Let  us  have  him  in,"  he  said,  briefly. 

Lancelot  was  thereupon  carried  to  the  hermitage, 
his  armor  removed,  and  the  bleeding  stanched,  but 
it  was  long  before  he  could  be  brought  out  of  his 
death-like  swoon. 

"Why  did  you  put  your  life  thus  in  jeopardy?" 
asked  the  hermit,  reproachfully,  when  the  knight 
was  again  in  his  senses. 

"  I  was  too  eager  to  attend  the  tournament,  now 
near  at  hand,"  he  said. 

"  Ah,  Sir  Lancelot,  you  have  more  courage  than 
wisdom,  I  fear.  As  for  the  tournament,  let  Sir 
Bors  attend  it  and  do  what  he^may.  By  the  time 
it  is  over  and  he  returned,  I  hope  that  you  may 
be  well  once  more,  if  you  will  but  be  governed  by 
my  advice." 

This  advice  was  taken  and  Bors  went  to  the  tour- 
nament, where  he  bore  himself  so  valorously  that 


254      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

the  prize  was  divided  between  him  and  Gawaine. 
Gareth  and  Palamides  also  did  noble  deeds,  but  they 
departed  suddenly  before  the  prize  was  declared, 
as  if  called  away  by  some  adventure. 

All  this  Lancelot  heard  with  great  pleasure  from 
Bors  on  his  return,  his  only  regret  being  that  he 
had  not  been  able  to  take  part  in  that  knightly 
sport.  But  the  remedies  of  the  hermit  and  the  care 
of  Elaine  had  meanwhile  done  him  wonderful  ser- 
vice, and  he  was  soon  able  again  t<^mount  his  horse 
and  wear  his  armor  in  safety. 

A  day,  therefore,  quickly  came  when  the  knight 
felt  himself  in  condition  for  a  journey,  and  when 
he  and  his  companions  took  the  road  to  Astolat, 
escorting  the  fair  Elaine  back  to  her  father's  home. 
Here  they  were  gladly  received  by  the  old  baron 
Bernard,  and  his  son  Tirre,  who  had  now  recovered. 

But  when  the  time  approached  which  Lancelot 
had  set  for  his  departure,  Elaine  grew  pale  and 
drooping.  At  length,  with  the  boldness  of  speech 
of  that  period,  she  came  to  him  and  said, — 

"  My  lord  Sir  Lancelot,  dear  and  courteous  sir, 
will  you  then  depart;  and  leave  me  alone  with  my 
love  and  sorrow?  Have  mercy  on  me,  I  pray  you, 
and  suffer  me  not  to  die  of  grief." 

"  What  would  you  have  me  do  ? ''  asked  Lancelot. 

"  I  brought  you  back  to  life ;  give  me  your  love 
in  return;  make  me  your  wedded  wife,  and  I  will 
love  you  as  never  woman  loved.'' 

"  That  can  I  never  do,"  said  Lancelot,  gravely. 
"  I  shall  never  wed." 

"  Then  shall  I  die  for  vour  love." 

"  Think  not  of  death,  Elaine.     If  I  could  marry 


HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE.  255 

woman  it  would  be  you,  for  I  could  love  you  dearly 
were  my  heart  free.  For  your  gentleness  and  kind- 
ness thus  only  can  I  repay  you.  If  you  can  set 
your  heart  upon  some  worthy  knight  who  is  free 
to  wed  you,  I  shall  give  to  you  and  your  heirs  a 
thousand  pounds  yearly,  as  some  small  payment 
of  the  debt  I  owe  you.^* 

"  You  speak  idly  and  coldly.  Sir  Lancelot.  Your 
money  I  will  have  none  of;  and  as  for  wedding,  I 
have  but  the  choice  to  wed  you  or  wed  my  death.^^ 

"You  rend  my  heart,  fair  Elaine.  Would  that 
it  could  be  as  you  wish.     Alas !  that  can  never  be.'^ 

At  this,  with  a  cry  of  heart-pain,  the  distressed 
maiden  fell  swooning  at  his  feet.  Thence  she  was 
borne  by  women  to  her  chamber,  where  she  lay, 
lamenting  like  one  whose  heart  is  broken. 

Sir  Bernard  now  came  to  Lancelot,  who  was  pre- 
paring to  depart,  and  said, — 

"Dear  sir, .it  grieves  me  to  find  my  daughter 
Elaine  in  such  a  distressful  state.  I  fear  she  may 
die  for  your  sake.^^ 

"  It  grieves  me  as  deeply,"  said  Lancelot.  "  But 
what  can  I  do  ?  That  she  loves  me  so  deeply  I  am 
sorry  to  learn,  for  I  have  done  nothing  to  encour- 
age it,  as  your  son  can  testify.  I  know  that  she 
is  a  true  and  noble  maiden,  and  will  do  all  that 
I  can  for  her  as  an  honest  knight ;  but  love  her  as 
she  loves  me  I  cannot,  and  to  wed  I  am  forbidden. 
Yet  her  distress  wounds  me  sorely." 

"  Father,"  said  Lavaine,  "  I  dare  avow  that  she 
is  as  pure  and  good  as  my  lord  Sir  Lancelot  has 
said.     In  loving  him  she  does  but  what  I  do,  for 


256   THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

since  I  first  saw  him  I  could  never  depart  from 
him ;  nor  shall  I  leave  him  so  long  as  he  will  bear 
my  company." 

Then  Lancelot  took  his  leave,  and  he  and  Lavaine 
rode  together  to  Camelot,  where  Arthur  and  the 
whole  court  received  the  errant  knight  with  the 
utmost  joy  and  warmest  welcome.  Queen  Guenever 
alone  failed  to  greet  him  kindly,  her  jealous  anger 
continuing  so  bitter  that  she  would  not  give  him 
a  word  or  a  look,  seek  as  he  would. 

But  the  joy  and  brightness  at  Camelot  were  re- 
placed by  darkness  at  Astolat,  for  the  fair  Elaine 
was  in  such  sorrow  day  and  night  that  she  neither 
ate,  drank,  nor  slept;  and  ever  she  sadly  moaned 
and  bewailed  the  cruelty  of  Sir  Lancelot. 

Ten  days  of  this  brought  her  so  near  her  end, 
that  her  old  father,  with  sad  heart,  sent  for  the 
priest  to  give  her  the  last  sacraments.  But  even 
then  she  made  her  plaints  of  Lancelot's  coldness  so 
mournfully,  that  the  ghostly  father  bade  her  cease 
such  thoughts. 

"Whv  should  I?''  she  cried.  "Am  I  not  a 
woman,  with  a  woman's  heart  and  feelings?  While 
the  breath  is  in  my  body  I  must  lament  my  fate; 
for  I  hold  it  no  offence  to  love,  and  take  God  to 
witness  that  I  never  have  and  never  can  love  other 
than  Lancelot  du  Lake.  Since  it  is  God's  will  that 
I  must  die  from  unrequited  love  of  so  noble  a  knight, 
I  pray  for  his  mercy  and  forgiveness  of  all  my  sins. 
Never  did  I  offend  deeply  against  God's  laws;  but 
it  was  not  in  mv  nature  to  withstand  the  fervent 
love  that  is  bringing  me  to  my  death." 

Then  she  sent  for  her  father  and  brother,  and 


HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE.  257 

prayed  them  to  write  a  letter  as  she  might  dictate. 
This  they  did,  writing  down  the  mournful  words 
which  she  spoke. 

"  Now/^  she  said,  ^^  this  more  I  command  you  to 
do.  When  I  am  dead,  put  this  letter  in  my  right 
hand  before  my  body  grows  cold.  Then  see  that  I 
be  richly  dressed  and  laid  in  a  fair  bed,  and  take 
me  in  a  chariot  to  the  river  Thames.  There  lay 
my  body  in  a  barge,  covered  with  black  samite,  and 
with  but  one  man  to  steer  the  barge  down  the  river 
to  Camelot." 

All  this  they,  weeping  sadly,  agreed  to  do,  and 
soon  afterwards  the  maiden  died,  slain  by  her  love. 
Her  sad  old  father  then  had  all  done  as  she  had 
requested. 

Meanwhile,  in  Camelot  the  world  moved  merrily. 
But  one  morning,  by  fortune,  as  King  Arthur  and 
Queen  Guenever  stood  talking  at  a  window,  they 
espied  a  black  barge  drifting  slowly  down  the  river. 
Wondering  much  what  it  meant,  the  king  called 
Sir  Kay  and  two  other  knights,  and  sent  them  to  the 
river,  bidding  them  to  bring  him  speedy  word  of 
what  the  barge  contained. 

This  they  did.  On  reaching  the  river-side  they 
found  that  the  barge  had  been  turned  inward,  and 
lay  beside  the  bank,  and  to  their  surprise  they  saw 
in  it  a  rich  bed,  on  which  lay  the  corpse  of  as  fair 
a  woman  as  thev  had  ever  beheld.  In  the  stern  of 
the  barge  sat,  with  oar  in  hand,  a  poor  man  who 
seemed  dumb,  for  no  word  would  he  speak. 

^^  That  corpse  must  I  see,"  said  the  king,  when 
word  of  this  event  was  brought  him.  "  Surely  this 
betokens  something  strange.^^ 

11-17 


258      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

lie  took  the  queen  by  the  hand  and  went  to  the 
river-side  with  her.  Here  the  barge  had  been  made 
fast,  and  they  stepped  from  the  shore  to  its  deck. 
There  they  saw  the  corpse  of  a  beautiful  maiden^ 
dressed  in  costly  attire,  and  lying  in  a  bed  which 
was  richly  covered  with  cloth  of  gold.  And  as  she 
lay  she  seemed  to  smile. 

The  queen  now  espied  a  letter  clasped  closely  in 
her  right  hand,  and  showed  it  to  the  king. 

^^That  will  surely  tell  us  who  she  is,  and  why 
she  has  come  hither,"  he  said. 

He  thereupon  took  the  letter  and  returned  with 
the  queen  to  the  palace.  Here,  surrounded  by  many 
knights,  he  broke  the  seal,  and  gave  the  epistle  to  a 
clerk  to  read.     This  was  its  purport, — 

"  Most  noble  knight.  Sir  Ijancelot,  now  hath 
death  made  us  two  at  debate  for  your  love.  I  was 
your  lover,  she  whom  men  called  the  Fair  Maid 
of  Astolat;  therefore  unto  all  ladies  I  make  my 
moan,  and  I  beg  you  to  pray  for  my  soul,  and  at 
the  least  to  bury  me,  and  offer  my  mass-penny. 
This  is  my  last  request.  God  is  my  witness  that 
I  die  a  pure  maiden.  Pray  for  my  soul,  Sir  Lance- 
lot, as  thou  art  peerless." 

When  this  pitiful  letter  had  been  read,  all  who 
heard  it  shed  tears,  for  never  had  they  heard  aught 
so  moving.  Then  Lancelot  was  sent  for  and  the 
letter  read  to  him. 

"  A  sorrowful  thing  is  this,"  he  said,  in  grievous 
tones.  "Then  she  is  dead,  the  fair  Elaine,  and 
thus,  with  silent  lips,  makes  her  last  prayer.  Truly 
it  wounds  me  to  the  heart.  Yet,  my  lord  Arthur, 
God  knows  I  had  no  just  share  in  the  death  of  this 


'L 


HOW  ELAINE  DIED  FOR  LOVE.  259 

maiden,  as  her  brother  here.  Sir  Lavaine,  can 
te8tif3\  She  was  fair  and  good,  and  I  owed  her 
muQh,  but  she  loved  me  beyond  measure,  and  her 
love  I  could  not  return." 

"  You  might  have  shown  her,"  said  the  queen, 
reprovingly,  "  some  bounty  and  gentleness,  and  thus 
have  preserved  her  life." 

"  Madam,"  said  Lancelot,  "  naught  would  she 
have  but  my  love,  and  my  hand  in  marriage.  I 
offered  to  endow  her  with  a  thousand  pounds  yearly, 
if  she  should  love  and  wed  any  other,  but  to  this 
she  would  not  listen.  As  for  me,  I  had  no  other 
comfort  to  give  her,  for  love  cannot  be  constrained, 
but  must  rise  of  itself  from  the  heart." 

^^ Truly  must  it,"  said  the  king.  "Love  is  free 
in  itself,  and  will  not  be  bound,  for  if  bonds  be 
placed  upon  it,  it  looseth  itself  perforce.  As  for 
this  unhappy  maiden,  nothing  is  left  for  you  but 
to  obey  her  last  pitiful  request." 

"  That  shall  I  to  the  utmost  of  my  power,"  said 
Lancelot. 

Then  many  knights  and  ladies  went  to  behold 
the  fair  maiden,  who  had  come  thither  in  such  mov- 
ing wise.  And  in  the  morning  she  was  richly  in- 
terred, and  with  all  due  honor,  at  Lancelot's  com- 
mand; and  he  offered  her  mass-penny,  as  did  all 
the  knights  who  were  there  present. 

Then  the  poor  dumb  servitor  returned  again  with 
the  barge,  rowing  it  slowly  and  sadly  back  to  Astolat. 

Afterwards  the  queen  sent  for  Lancelot,  and 
begged  his  pardon  humbly  for  her  causeless  anger. 

"  This  is  not  the  first  time,"  said  Lancelot,  "  that 
you  have  been  displeased  with  me  without  cause. 


260      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

What  you  will,  I  must  bear,  and  keep  my  sorrow 
within  my  heart;  yet  I  would  that  your  love  were 
less  tainted  by  hasty  jealousy.  As  for  f orgivingjou, 
what  else  can  I  do,  my  queen?  Love  cannot  live 
without  forgiveness/^ 

After  these  events  the  winter  and  spring  passed 
on,  with  hunting  and  hawking,  and  jousts  and 
tournaments,  and  the  fate  of  the  fair  Elaine  was 
wellnigh  forgotten  in  the  joy  of  the*  court.  But 
her  brother  Lavaine  gained  great  honor,  and  at  a 
tournament  that  was  given  on  Candlemas  day  did 
so  nobly  that  the  king  promised  he  should  be  made 
a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table  at  the  next  feast  of 
Pentecost. 

And  at  this  tournament  Lancelot  again  fought 
in  disguise,  wearing  a  sleeve  of  gold  of  the  queen's, 
and  did  such  deeds  that  the  prize  was  adjudged 
to  him.  Thus  a  second  time  did  he  wear  a  woman's 
token  in  the  lists. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART. 

The  year  passed  on  from  Candlemas  till  after 
Easter,  and  then  came  the  month  of  May,  when 
every  lusty  heart  begins  to  blossom  and  to  bear 
fruit;  for  as  herbs  and  trees  flourish  in  May,  so 
does  the  heart  of  a  lover,  since  in  this  lusty  month 
all  lovers  gain  courage,  calling  to  their  minds  old 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CABT,       261 

VOWS  and  deeds  of  gentleness,  and  much  that  was 
forgotten  in  the  winter's  chill. 

As  winter  always  defaces  and  erases  green  sum- 
mer, so  fares  it  with  unstable  love  in  man  and 
woman.     But   as   Mav   flowers   and    flourishes   in 

4' 

many  gardens,  so  flowers  the  lover's  heart  in  the 
joy  of  her  to  whom  he  has  promised  his  faith.  Yet 
nowadays  men  cannot  love  seven  days  without  their 
love  cooling;  for  where  love  warms  in  haete  it  cools 
as  hastily;  thus  fareth  it  in  our  days, — soon  hot, 
soon  cold.  The  old  love  was  not  so.  Men  and 
women  could  love  together  seven  years  in  truth  and 
faithfulness.  Such  was  the  way  of  love  in  King 
Arthur's  days ;  but  love  nowadays  I  liken  unto  sum- 
mer and  winter;  now  hot,  now  cold,  like  the  chang- 
ing seasons.  Therefore  all  ye  who  are  lovers  call 
to  your  remembrance  the  month  of  May,  like  as  did 
Queen  Guenever,  who  while  she  lived  was  a  true 
lover,  and  therefore  she  had  a  good  end. 

So  it  befell  in  the  month  of  May  that  Queen 
Guenever  called  unto  her  certain  knights  of  the 
Eound  Table,  inviting  them  to  ride  with  her  in 
the  early  morn  a-maying  in  the  woods  and  fields 
beside  Camelot. 

And  see  that  you  all  be  well  horsed,"  she  said, 

and  clad  in  green,  either  in  silk  or  cloth.  I  shall 
bring  with  me  ten  ladies,  and  every  knight  shall 
have  a  lady  behind  him,  and  bring  with  him  a 
squire  and  two  yeomen.'' 

And  so,  when  morning  came,  the  ten  knights 
invited  put  on  their  gayest  robes  of  green,  and 
rode  with  the  queen  and  her  ladies,  a-maying  in 
the  woods  and  fields,  to  their  great  joy  and  delight. 


262   THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

Yet  this  pleasure  party  led  to  sad  results,  as  we 
have  now  to  tell.  For  there  was  a  knight  named 
Meliagranee,  son  of  King  Bagdemagus,  who  had 
a  castle,  the  gift  of  King  Arthur,  within  seven 
miles  of  Camelot.  This  knight  loved  the  queen, 
and  had  done  so  for  many  years,  and  it  had  long 
been  in  his  heart  to  steal  her  away;  but  he  had 
never  been  able  to  find  her  without  many  knights 
about  her,  and,  chief  of  all,  Sir  Lancelot. 

When  he  heard  of  this  Maying  party,  and  that 
the  queen  would  be  attended  by  only  ten  knights, 
and  these  in  green  robes,  he  resolved  to  carry  out 
his  base  design,  and  therefore  placed  in  ambush 
twenty  men-at-arms  and  a  hundred  archers. 

So  it  happened  that  while  the  queen  and  her 
knights  were  merrily  arraying  one  another  in 
flowers  and  mosses,  and  with  wreaths  made  of 
sprays  of  fresh  green,  this  false  knight  rode  sud- 
denly from  a  wood  hear  by,  followed  by  a  throng 
of  armed  men,  and  bade  them  stand,  and  yield  up 
the  queen  on  peril  of  their  lives. 

"  Traitor  knight,^^  cried  Guenever,  ^*  what  seek 
you  to  do?  Wouldst  thou,  a  king's  son,  and  a 
knight  of  the  Round  Table,  seek  to  dishonor  the 
noble  king  who  made  you  what  you  are?  You 
shame  yourself  and  all  knighthood;  but  me  you 
shall  never  shame,  for  I  had  rather  cut  my  throat 
than  be  dishonored  by  you.^' 

"  Madam,  this  language  will  avail  you  nothing,^' 
said  Meliagrance.  "  I  have  loved  you  many  a  year, 
and  now  that  I  have  you  at  advantage  will  take 
you  as  I  find  you.'' 

"  You  must  kill  us  first,  unarmed  as  we  are/' 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CABT.       263 

cried  the  queen's  knights.  "  You  have  taken  us 
at  a  foul  disadvantage;  but  you  shall  not  have  the 
queen  so  lightly  as  you  deem/' 

"Fight,  will  you?  Then  fight  it,  if  you  will 
have  it  so/^  said  Meliagranee. 

Then  the  ten  knights  drew  their  swords,  and  the 
others  spurred  upon  them  with  couched  spears. 
But  so  skilfully  did  the  queen's  defenders  use  their 
blades  that  the  spears  did  them  no  harm. 

The  battle  then  went  on  with  swords,  and  the 
ten  knights  did  noble  deeds,  slaying  many  of  their 
assailants;  yet  they  were'  so  overmatched  that 
they  soon  were  all  stretched  upon  the  earth  with 
bleeding  wounds. 

"  Sir  Meliagranee,"  cried  the  queen,  in  deep  dis- 
tress, "kill  not  my  noble  knights,  I  pray  you.  If 
you  do  them  no  more  harm  I  will  go  with  you,  if 
you  will  take  them  with  me.  Otherwise  I  will 
slay  myself  before  you  shall  take  me." 

"  Madam,  since  you  wish  it,  they  shall  be  taken 
to  my  castle,  whither  you  must  come  with  me." 

Then  at  the  queen's  command  the  battle  ceased, 
and  the  knights  had  their  wounds  dressed.  But 
Meliagranee  watched  keenly  that  none  of  the  com- 
pany should  escape,  for  greatly  he  feared  that  news 
of  this  outrage  might  be  borne  to  Lancelot  du  Lake. 

But  there  was  with  the  queen  a  little  page  who 
rode  a  swift  horse,  and  to  him  she  privily  spoke. 

"  Slip  away,  when  you  see  the  chance,"  she  said, 
"  and  bear  this  ring  to  Lancelot  du  Lake.  Tell 
him  what  has  happened,  and  pray  him  as  he  loves 
me  to  come  in  haste  to  my  rescue.  Spare  not  your 
horse,  and  stay  not  for  land  or  water." 


264      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

The  page  took  the  ring,  and  rode  carelessly  to 
the  edge  of  the  circle.  Then,  seeing  his  oppor- 
tunity, he  put  spurs  to  his  horse  and  rode  away 
at  full  speed.  When  Meliagrance  saw  this  he  or- 
dered instant  pursuit,  and  the  boy  was  hotly  chased 
and  fired  at  with  arrows  and  javelins ;  yet  the  speed 
of  his  horse  soon  carried  him  beyond  danger. 

"  Madam,"  cried  Meliagrance,  fiercely,  to  the 
queen,  "  you  are  plotting  to  betray  me.  But  if  you 
have  sent  for  Lancelot  du  Lake,  he  shall  find  the 
road  to  you  a  perilous  one,  I  warrant  him." 

And  as  they  rode  to  the  castle  he  placed  an 
ambush  of  thirty  archers  by  the  road-side,  charging 
them  if  they  saw  a  knight  come  that  way  on  a 
white  horse  to  slay  the  horse.  But  he  warned  them 
not  to  assail  him  in  person,  as  they  would  find  him 
hard  to  overcome. 

This  done,  the  party  proceeded  to  the  castle; 
but  here  the  queen  would  not  let  her  ladies  and 
knights  out  of  her  presence,  and  Meliagrance  stood 
in  such  dread  of  Lancelot  that  he  dared  not  use 
force. 

In  the  mean  time  the  page  found  Lancelot,  and 
gave  him  the  queen's  ring  and  message,  telling 
him  the  whole  story  of  the  treacherous  assault. 

"  I  would  give  all  France  to  have  been  there  well 
armed,"  cried  Lancelot.  "  The  queen  shall  be 
saved,  or  I  will  die  in  the  effort.  Haste  you  to 
Sir  Lavaine  and  tell  him  where  I  have  gone,  and 
bid  him  follow  me  to  Meliagrance's  castle.  Tell 
him  to  come  quickly,  if  he  wishes  to  have  a  hand 
in  the  rescue  of  the  queen  and  her  knights." 

Lancelot  was  hastily  arming  as  he  spoke,  and 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CABT.       265 

mounting,  he  rode  with  all  speed,  forcing  his  horse 
to  swim  the  Thames  in  his  haste.  In  no  great 
time  he  reached  the  spot  where  the  fight  had  taken 
place,  and  where  he  found  the  garlands  the  knights 
had  worn,  rent  with  sword-strokes  and  reddened 
with  their  blood.  Then  he  followed  the  tracks  of 
the  party  till  he  entered  a  narrow  passage,  bordered 
by  a  wood.  Here  were  the  archers  stationed,  and 
when  Lancelot  came  by  they  bade  him  return,  for 
that  way  was  closed. 

"  Why  should  I  turn  ?  '^  he  demanded.  "  Whence 
get  you  the  right  to  close  the  way  ?  '* 

"  If  you  go  forward  it  will  be  on  foot,  for  we 
shall  kill  vour  horse.-' 

"  Go  forward  I  shall,  if  there  were  five  hundred 
more  of  you,"  said  Lancelot. 

Then  a  cloud  of  arrows  whistled  through  the 
air,  and  the  noble  horse,  struck  by  a  dozen  shafts, 
fell  to  the  earth.  Lancelot  leaped  lightly  from 
the  falling  animal,  and  rushed  in  a  rage  into  the 
wood;  but  there  were  so  many  hedges  and  ditches 
that  he  found  it  impossible  to  reach  his  light-armed 
assailants. 

"  Shame  on  this  Meliagrance  for  a  dastard !  '^  he 
cried  in  anger.  "  It  is  a  true  old  saw  that  a  good 
man  is  never  in  danger  but  from  a  coward." 

The  angry  knight,  finding  that  his  assailants 
were  beyond  his  reach,  set  out  on  foot  for  Melia- 
grance's  castle,  but  found  himself  so  encumbered 
with  his  armor,  shield,  and  spear,  that  his  progress 
was  but  slow.  Yet  he  dared  not  leave  any  of  his 
arms,  for  fear  of  giving  his  foe  an  advantage. 

At  length,  by  good  fortune,  there  appeared  on 


266      THE  LOVE  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 


the  road  a  cart,  that  was  used  for  hauling  wood. 

"  Tell  me,  friend  carter/'  said  Lancelot,  when 
the  vehicle  came  near,  "  what  shall  I  give  you  for 
a  ride  in  your  cart  to  a  castle  that  lies  a  few  miles 
away  ?  ^^ 

"  You  can  give  me  nothing,'^  said  the  carter. 
"  I  am  sent  to  bring  wood  for  my  lord,  Sir  Melia- 
grance,  and  it  is  not  my  fashion  to  work  for  two 
at  once/' 

'^  It  is  Sir  Meliagrance  I  seek/' 

"  Then  go  on  foot,"  said  the  carter,  surlily.  "  My 
cart  is  for  other  work." 

Incensed  at  this,  Lancelot  dealt  the  fellow  a 
blow  with  his  mailed  fist  that  stretched  him  sense- 
less on  the  ground.  Then  he  turned  to  the  carter^s 
comrade. 

"  Strike  me  not,  fair  sir,"  pleaded  this  fellow. 
*'  I  will  bring  you  where  you  wish." 

"  Then  drive  me  and  this  cart  to  the  gate  of 
Meliagrance's  castle." 

"Leap  into  the  cart,  and  you  shall  be  there 
before  the  day  grows  old." 

This  Lancelot  did,  and  the  carter  lashed  his 
horse  forward  with  all  speed,  for  he  was  in  mortal 
fear  of  the  knight's  hard  fist. 

An  hour  and  a  half  afterwards,  as  Guenever 
and  her  ladies  stood  in  a  window  of  the  castle, 
they  saw  a  cart  approaching,  in  which  stood  upright 
an  armed  knight,  resting  on  his  spear.  Even  at 
that  distance  they  knew  him  by  his  shield  to  be 
Lancelot  du  Lake. 

"  A  noble  and  trusty  friend  he  is,  indeed,  to 
come  in  such  a  fashion/'  said  the  queen.     "Hard 


THE  CHEVALIER  OP  THE  CART.  267 

bested  he  must  have  been,  to  be  forced  to  ride 
hither  in  a  woodman's  cart/' 

As  they  looked,  the  cart  came  to  the  castle 
gates,  and  Lancelot  sprang  from  it  to  the  ground, 
his  heart  full  of  rage  and  passion. 

*^ Where  art  thou,  traitor?'^  he  cried,  in  a  voice 
that  rang  throughout  the  castle.  "Come  forth, 
thou  disgrace  to  the  Round  Table  fellowship !  Come, 
with  all  your  men ;  for  here  am  I,  Lancelot  du  Lake, 
who  will  fight  you  all  single-handed  on  this 
question.^' 

As  he  spoke  he  thrust  the  gates  open  with  such 
force  that  the  porter,  who  sought  to  hold  them 
shut,  was  hurled  like  a  dead  man  to  the  earth. 

When  Meliagrance  in  the  castle  heard  this  loud 
defiance  his  cowardly  soul  sank  within  him,  for 
well  he  knew  from  whom  it  came,  and  he  ran  in 
haste  to  the  queen  and  fell  on  his  knees  before 
her,  begging  her  to  forgive  him  and  to  cool  the 
wrath  of  Lancelot.  So  pitifully  did  he  implore, 
that  in  the  end  Guenever  was  moved  to  compas- 
sion, and  went  with  her  ladies  to  the  castle  court, 
where  Lancelot  stood  furiously  bidding  the  traitor 
knight  to  come  down  and  do  battle. 

"Why  are  you  so  moved,  Lancelot?^'  asked  the 
queen. 

"Why  should  I  not  be?^*  he  cried,  in  a  rage. 
^'  The  hound  has  killed  my  horse  and  stolen  my 
queen.     Is  this  the  thing  to  bear  like  a  lanib  ?  ^' 

"  He  sorely  repents  his  fault,  and  has  moved  me 
to  forgive  him,"  said  the  queen.  "  Come  in,  then, 
peaceably,  I  beg  you,  for  I  have  passed  my  word." 

"You  accord  easily  with  this  dog  of  a  kidnap- 


268      THE  LOVE  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

per,"  said  Lancelot,  sourly.  "Had  I  looked  for 
this  I  might  have  spared  my  haste  and  saved  my 
horse." 

"It  is  not  through  love  or  favor  I  have  forgiven 
him,"  said  the  queen,  "  but  to  check  the  voice  of 
scandal." 

"  I  am  no  fonder  of  scandal  than  yourself,"  said 
Lancelot.  "Yet  if  I  had  my  will  I  would  make 
this  fellow's  heart  full  cold  before  I  left  this  castle." 

"I  know  that  well,  but  beg  that  you  will  be 
ruled  by  me  in  this  affair." 

"Let  it  be  so,  if  you  have  passed  your  word. 
But  you  are  too  soft  of  heart  Queen  Guenever." 

Then  she  took  his  hand,  for  he  had  taken  off 
his  gauntlet,  and  led  him  into  the  castle,  and  to 
the  chamber  in  which  lay  the  ten  wounded  knights, 
whose  hearts  warmed  at  his  coming.  From  them 
he  learned  in  full  what  had  occurred,  a  story  which 
stirred  his  blood  again  into  such  a  flame,  that  only 
the  soft  hand  of  the  queen  hindered  him  from  seek- 
ing Meliagrance  through  the  castle  to  slay  him. 

As  they  stood  talking,  Sir  Lavaine  rode  furi- 
ously  in  at  the  gate,   crying, — 

"Where  is  my  lord,  Sir  Lancelot  du  Lake?" 

"  Here  I  am,"  cried  Lancelot  from  a  window. 
"All  is  well,  Lavaine." 

"  I  found  your  horse  slain  with  arrows,  and 
judged  3^ou  were  hard  pushed." 

"  As  for  that,  Lavaine,  soft  words  have  turned 
hard  blows.  Come  in.  We  shall  right  this  matter 
at  another  time,  when  we  best  may." 

For  many  a  day  thereafter,  as  the  French  book 
says,   Lancelot   was   called   the   Chevalier   of  the 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.  269 

Cart,  and  many  an  adventure  he  had  under  that 
homely  name. 

All  went  peacefully  that  night  at  the  castle, 
but  the  Jiext  morning  there  was  new  trouble.  For 
one  of  the  castle  maidens  brought  word  to  Melia- 
grance  that  she  had  found  what  seemed  to  be  the 
prinf  of  a  bloody  hand  on  the  coyerings  of  the 
queen's  bed.  Thither  he  hurried,  full  of  jealous 
anger,  and  found  what  appeared,  indeed,  to  be  the 
crimson  print  of  a  man's  hand.  On  seeing  this 
he  made  a  loud  outcry,  declaring  that  it  was  the 
blood  of  one  of  the  wounded  knights,  and  fiercely 
accused  Gueneyer  of  haying  been  false  to  her  lord 
King  Arthur. 

When  word  of  this  accusation  came  to  the 
wounded  knights  they  were  filled  with  indignation, 
and  cried  that  they  would  meet  Meliagrance  or  any 
man  in  the  lists  in  defence  of  the  queen's  honor. 

"Ye  speak  proudly,"  said  Meliagrance.  "Yet 
look  here,  and  see  if  I  haye  not  warrant  for  what 
I  say." 

When  he  showed  them  the  red  witness  of  his 
words  they  were  abashed,  and  knew  not  what  to 
answer. 

All  this  was  told  to  Lancelot,  and  he  came  in 
haste  and  anger  to  the  queen's  chamber. 

"  What  is  this  ?  "  he  demanded. 

"  It  is  that  the  queen  has  proved  false  to  her 
lord  and  husband,  and  this  I  stand  ready  to  prove 
with  my  body,"  said  Meliagrance. 

"Beware  what  you  say,  sir  knight,"  cried  Lan- 
celot, "  or  you  will  find  your  challenge  taken." 

"My    lord    Lancelot/'    answered    Meliagrance, 


270      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

'"  good  knight  as  you  are,  take  heed  how  you  do 
battle  in  a  wrong  quarrel,  for*  God  will  have  a  hand 
in  such  a  eause/^ 

"  This  I  say,  answered  Lancelot,  hotly,  "  that 
you  accuse  the  queen  wrongly,  and  these  noble 
knights  as  falsely.  This  is  the  work  of  treason 
or  magic/' 

"  Hold,"  said  Meliagrance ;  "  here  is  my  glove, 
in  proof  that  she  is  traitress  to  the  king,  and  that 
one  of  these  wounded  knights  is  her  leman/' 

"  I  accept  your  challenge,'^  said  Lancelot,  "  and 
will  fight  you  to  the  death  in  this  cause.  When 
shall  we  do  battle?'' 

"  Let  it  be  in  eight  days  from  this,"  said  Melia- 
grance, "in  the  field  beside  Camelot." 

"I  am  agreed,"  said  Lancelot. 

"  Then  let  us  go  to  dinner,"  said  Meliagrance, 
"  and  afterwards  you  and  the  queen  and  her  knights 
may  ride  to  Camelot." 

Yet  fairly  as  he  spoke  his  heart  was  full  of 
treachery,  and  before  going  to  the  table  he  asked 
Lancelot  if  he  would  care  to  see  the  rooms  and 
passages  of  the  castle. 

"  If  you  wish  to  show  them,"  said  Lancelot. 

Then  they  went  from  chamber  to  chamber,  Lan- 
celot having  no  fear  of  peril  or  thought  of  treaison. 
But  as  they  traversed  a  long  and  dark  passage  the 
false-hearted  host  trod  on  a  spring,  and  down  fell 
a  trap-door,  giving  Lancelot  a  fall  of  more  than 
ten  fathoms  into  a  dark  cell,  whose  floor  was  cov- 
ered deeply  with  straw.  This  done,  Meliagrance 
hastened  away,  after  replacing  the  trap,  and  or- 
dered one  of  his  men  to  remove  Lavaine's  horse 
from  the  stable. 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.       271 

When  the  knights  came  to  dinner  all  were  sur- 
prised that  Lancelot  was  not  present. 

^*  Is  this  one  of  his  old  tricks  ?  ^^  asked  the  queen. 
"He  has  a  fashion  of  thus  departing  suddenly, 
without  warning.^' 

"But  not  on  foot/'  said  Lavaine,  and  left  the 
room. 

When  he  returned,  it  was  to  say  that  his  horse 
had  vanished  from  the  stable,  and  that  doubtless 
liancelot  had  taken  it  and  ridden  off.  So  they  sat 
quietly  at  dinner,  and  afterwards  set  out  for  the 
court,  the  wounded  knights  being  carried  under 
care  of  Lavaine,  in  easily  litters. 

When  the  court  was  reached,  and  Arthur  was 
told  of  what  had  occurred,  he  was  full  of  wrath. 

"  So  this  traitor  Meliagrance  chooses  first  to 
kidnap  my  queen,  and  then  to  accuse  her  of  trea- 
son ?''  he  cried.  "By  my  crown,  I  would  deal 
with  him  in  another  fashion  only  that  Lancelot 
has  taken  the  challenge.  I  fancy  the  fellow  will 
have  his  hands  full,  without  my  care.  But  where 
is  Lancelot  ?'' 

"  That  we  know  not,"  said  the  knights.  "  It  is 
like  him  to  go  off  in  this  hasty  way.  He  took  Sir 
Lavaine's  horse,  and  left  us  without  a  word  of 
parting/' 

"Let  him  be,"  said  the  king.  "He  will  come 
in  good  time, — unless  he  be  trapped  by  some 
treachery." 

Little  dreamed  they  of  Lancelot's  true  situation 
at  that  moment.  He  had  been  sorely  bruised  by 
his  fall,  and  lay  in  great  pain  in  the  cave,  visited 
only  by  a  lady,  who  came  to  him  daily  with  food. 


272      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVEB. 

Yet  it  happened,  as  had  occurred  so  often  to 
Lancelot,  that  the  lady  fell  in  love  with  his  hand- 
some face.  Meliagrance  had  made  a  foolish  choice 
in  sending  a  woman  with  a  soft  heart  to  his  pris- 
oner, and  was  likely  to  pay  dearly  for  his  folly. 
Yet  days  passed  on,  and  Lancelot  continued  deaf 
to  her  sighs  and  blind  to  her  languishing  looks. 

"  Sir  Lancelot,^^  she  at  length  said,  "  do  you  not 
know  that  your  lady,  Queen  Guenever,  will  be 
burnt  at  the  stake  unless  you  be  there  at  the  day 
of  battle  ?'' 

"  God  forbid  that  such  a  disaster  should  come 
to  pass !  '^  cried  Lancelot.  "  Yet  if  I  should  not 
be  there,  all  men  of  worship  will  know  that  I  am 
dead,  sick,  or  in  prison,  for  men  know  me  well 
enough  to  know  that  nothing  less  would  keep  me 
away.  Therefore,  some  knight  of  my  blood  or  of 
my  fellowship  will  take  up  this  battle,  and  fight 
bravely  in  the  queen's  cause." 

"  I  shall  set  you  free,  Sir  Lancelot,  to  fight  your 
own  battle,  if  you  will  but  give  me  your  love;  for 
truly  I  love  you  with  my  whole  heari;.'' 

"  I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  return  it,"  said  Lan- 
celot. "But  I  cannot  lie  to  you  in  such  a  cause, 
even  for  life  or  honor." 

"  Take  heed  what  you  say.  Sir  Lancelot.  Shame 
will  be  your  lot  if  any  but  you  fight  this  battle." 

"As  for  the  world's  shame,  may  Christ  defend 
me.  As  for  my  distress  of  heart,  it  is  welcome,  if 
God  sends  it." 

The  lady  went  away  full  of  sorrowful  thoughts. 
But  on  the  morning  of  the  day  fixed  for  the  battle 
she  came  to  him  again,  and  said,  gently, — 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.       273 

"  Sir  Lancelot,  I  deem  you  hard-hearted  and 
cruel;  yet  I  love  you  too  truly  to  see  you  dis- 
graced. If  you  will  solace  my  heart-pain  with 
but  one  kiss,  I  will  set  you  free,  and  deliver  to 
you  your  armor,  and  the  best  horse  in  the  castle 
stables." 

"  Surely  there  is  no  dishonor  in  a  kiss ;  and  well 
will  you  earn  it  by  such  service,"  said  Lancelot. 
"  You  offer  me  new  life,  fair  lady." 

Then  he  kissed  her;  and  with  a  face  half  glad, 
half  gloomy,  she  led  him  from  the  prison  by  a 
secret  passage  to  the  chamber  where  his  armor 
had  been  left.  And  when  he  was  armed  she  con- 
ducted him  privily  to  a  stable  where  stood  twelve 
good  horses,  and  bade  him  make  his  choice. 

Lancelot  chose  a  white  courser,  whose  size  and 
spirit  pleased  him  most,  and  this  he  deftly  saddled 
and  bridled.  Then,  with  spear  in  hand  and  sword 
by  side,  he  commended  the  lady  to  God,  saying, — 

*^Lady,  for  this  good  deed  I  shall  do  you  ample 
service  if  ever  it  be  in  my  power.  If  not,  may 
God  reward  you." 

This  said,  he  rode  with  proud  mien  from  the 
castle,  and  galloped  at  headlong  speed  away,  while 
she,  with  sad  eyes  and  sighing  lips,  stood  looking 
with  loving  regard  on  his  departing  form. 

Sadly  was  his  coming  needed,  for  imminent  was 
the  peril  of  the  queen.  At  the  place  fixed  for  the 
combat  knights  and  lords  had  early  gathered,  and 
Meliagrance,  feeling  sure  that  Lancelot  could  not 
appear  to  do  battle,  put  on  a  haughty  mien,  and 
loudly  demanded  justice,  or  the  combat.  Yet  the 
hour  appointed  came  and  passed,  and  the  queen's 

11-18 


274      THE  LOVE  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

champion  had  not  appeared ;  while  the  king  and  all 
the  court  grew  full  of  pain  and  dread  as  the  fatal 
moments  went  by.  The  laws  were  strict,  and  could 
not  be  set  aside  for  queen  or  commoner.  Guenever 
must  perish  at  the  stake,  or  be  saved  by  a  cham- 
pion's sword  and  spear.  Therefore,  as  the  minutes 
slowly  grew  into  hours,  and  nothing  of  Lancelot 
was  seen,  while  Meliagrance  more  loudly  demanded 
justice  or  a  champion,  all  hearts  sank  deep  in 
despair. 

^^  My  lord  the  king,^^  cried  Lavaine,  at  length, 
^^  some  sad  misfortune  has  happened  to  Sir  Lance- 
lot. Never  did  he  fail  to  appear  to  do  battle  un- 
less he  were  sick  or  in  prison.  I  beseech  you, 
therefore,  give  me  leave  this  day  to  do  battle  for 
him,  and  to  strike  a  knightly  blow  for  my  lady  the 
queen." 

"  Thanks,  gentle  knight,"  said  the  king.  "  I 
dare  avow  that  the  charge  which  Meliagrance  lays 
upon  the  queen  is  a  false  one,  for  of  these  ten 
wounded  knights  who  were  present,  there  is  not  one 
but  would  gladly  do  battle  to  prove  its  falsity  were 
he  able  to  wear  armor." 

"That  shall  I  do  in  the  service  of  my  lord 
Lancelot,"  said  Lavaine,  "if  you  will  give  me 
leave." 

"  Full  leave  you  have,"  answered  the  king.  "  I 
pray  you  do  your  best ;  for  it  seems  sure  that  some 
treachery  has  been  done  to  the  noble  Lancelot." 

Lavaine  now  armed  in  all  haste,  and,  mounting 
his  war-courser,,  rode  into  the  lists,  where  he  faced 
Meliagrance,  challenging  him  to  do  battle  to  the 
death. 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.  275 

"  Lesses  les  aller ! ''  cried  the  heralds. 

The  two  champions  couched  their  spears, 
clutched  their  bridles,  and  were  about  to  plunge 
the  spurs  into  their  horses^  flanks,  when  the  sound 
of  hoofs  was  heard  without,  and  an  armed  knight 
came  galloping  at  furious  speed  into  the  lists. 

"  Ho !  and  abide !  ^^  cried  King  Arthur. 

*^  Raise  your  spears,  sir  knights,  this  quarrel  is 
mine,"  said  the  new-comer.  "  You  have  my  thanks, 
Lavaine,  but  only  I  must  fight  in  this  cause." 

Then  he  rode  to  the  king,  lifted  his  visor,  and 
showed  the  noble  face  of  Lancelot,  now  hot  with 
indignation. 

"I  am  here  to  fight  this  villain  and  traitor,"  he 
called,  loudly.  "  My  lord  the  king,  I  have  lain 
these  eight  days  in  a  prison  cell,  into  which  the 
base  hound  entrapped  me.  By  fortune  I  escaped, 
and  here  I  am,  ready  to  pay  him  in  fitting  coin  for 
his  foul  treachery." 

"  The  dog !  has  he  done  this  thing  ?  "  cried  the 
king,  in  anger.  "  Then,  by  my  crown,  whether  he 
^^^n  or  not  Guenever  shall  not  suffer  from  the 
charge  which  he  has  dared  bring.  But  God's  jus- 
tice will  not  let  him  win." 

That  Meliagrance  quaked  at  heart  on  seeing  this 
seeming  apparition  from  the  grave  need  not  be 
said.  But  he  had  dared  the  hazard  of  the  die, 
and  sat  his  horse  in  grim  silence  while  his  foul 
treacherv.was  thus  made  known  to  the  court.  Lan- 
celot  now  rode  to  his  place  in  the  lists,  and  faced 
his  adversary. 

"  Lesses  les  aller !  "  cried  the  heralds  again. 

Then,  spear  in  rest,  the  warriors  spurred  their 


276      THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

horses,  and  met  with  a  shock  like  thunder  in  the 
centre  of  the  field.  Lancelot  kept  his  saddle,  but 
Meliagrance  was  hurled  over  his  horse's  croup. 
Seeing  this,  Lancelot  lightly  sprang  from  his  sad- 
dle, drew  his  sword,  and  advanced  upon  his  foe, 
who  was  on  his  feet  ready  to  meet  him. 

Hot  and  fierce  was  the  combat  that  succeeded, 
many  great  strokes  being  given  and  returned;  but 
at  length  Lancelot  struck  so  fierce  a  blow  that 
Meliagrance  was  felled  to  the  ground.  Then  the 
dastard  cried  aloud  in  an  agony  of  fear, — 

"Noble  knight,  noble  Sir  Lancelot,  spare  my 
life,  I  humbly  pray  you !  I  yield  me  as  overcome 
and  recreant  and  beseech  you,  as  a  Knight  and 
Fellow  of  the  Round  Table,  not  to  slay  me  help- 
less. Alive  or  dead,  I  put  myself  in  your  hands 
and  the  king's.'^ 

Lancelot  stood  looking  grimly  down  upon  him, 
at  a  loss  what  to  do.  To  slay  him  was  the  wish 
of  his  heart;  yet  it  looked  like  murder  to  kill  a 
praying  wretch.  In  his  doubt  he  turned  towards 
the  queen,  and  she  nodded  her  head  as  if  to  bid 
him  kill  the  villain. 

"Eise,  sir  hound,"  cried  Lancelot.  "You  shall 
fight  this  battle  to  the  utterance.'^ 

"  I  will  never  rise,"  said  Meliagrance,  "  till  you 
grant  me  mercy  as  a  yielding  and  recreant  knight." 

"  Coward !  "  cried  Lancelot.  "  If  you  fear  to 
fight  me  as  I  am,  I  will  give  you  odds  in  the  com- 
bat. I  will  take  off  my  armor  from  my  head  and 
the  left  side  of  my  body,  and  let  them  bind  my 
left  hand  behind  me,  and  fight  you  with  my  right 
hand  alone." 


i^ 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.  277 

At  this  perilous  offer  Meliagrance  started  hastily 
to  his  feet,  and  loudly  cried, — 

"My  lord  Arthur,  you  have  heard  this  offer! 
I  accept  it.  Let  him  be  disarmed  and  bound  as 
he  says.^' 

"  You  do  not  mean  to  keep  this  foolish  promise, 
Lancelot?^'  demanded  the  king. 

"  That  do  I,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I  shall  not  go 
back  on  my  word,  be  it  wise  or  foolish.^' 

"  Then  so  let  it  be ;  but  you  invite  death  by  such 
a  reckless  compact.^^ 

The  attendant  knights  thereupon  removed  Lan- 
celot's helmet,  and  took  from  him  his  shield  and 
the  armor  from  his  left  side.  They  then  bound 
his  left  arm  behind  him,  and  thus  arrayed  he  was 
placed  before  his  antagonist,  whose  heart  burned 
with  hope  and  with  murderous  designs. 

All  those  who  looked  on  were  full  of  fear  for 
Lancelot,  deeming  it  the  height  of  folly  that  he 
should  take  such  a  frightful  risk,  while  many 
ladies  closed  their  eyes,  in  dread  to  see  him  slain. 

With  the  inspiration  of  hope,  Meliagrance  came 
up,  bearing  his  sword  uplifted,  while  Lancelot  stood 
with  his  head  and  side  fully  open  to  his  stroke. 
Down  came  the  blade  with  a  deadly  sweep  that 
caused  many  men  to  close  their  eyes,  sure  that  the 
knight's  head  would  be  cleft  in  twain. 

But  Lancelot  had  no  such  thought.  With  a 
light  swing  to  the  right  he  avoided  the  stroke, 
which  cut  idly  through  the  air;  then,  stepping 
forward  to  give  effect  to  the  blow,  he  swung  his 
own  blade  upward  with  giant  strength,  and  brought 
it  down  on  Meliagrance's  helmet  with  such  mighty 


278   THE  LOVE  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

force  that  the  hard  steel  and  the  head  it  covered 
were  shorn  in  twain,  and  the  traitor  knight  fell 
dead  upon  the  field. 

Wild  were  the  shouts  of  joy  and  triumph  at  this 
unlooked-for  end  to  the  combat.  The  king  sprang 
from  his  seat  and  rushed  into  the  lists,  where  he 
warmly  clasped  Lancelot  in  his  arms;  while 
Guenever,  in  joy  at  her  deliverance,  kissed  him 
on  both  cheeks ;  and  all  the  knights  crowded  around 
them  with  glad  cries  and  warm  congratulations. 

As  for  Meliagrance,  he  was  given  the  burial  of 
a  recreant  and  traitor,  the  cause  of  his  death  being 
inscribed  on  his  tomb,  that  all  might  read  his  dis- 
honor. 

But  for  Sir  Lancelot,  the  king  and  queen  made 
more  of  him,  and  felt  more  love  for  him  in  their 
hearts,  than  ever  before. 

After  this  time  many  events  of  interest  took 
place  of  which  we  have  little  space  to  speak. 
Among  them,  Lancelot  healed  the  wounds  of  a 
knight  of  Hungary,  named  Sir  Urre,  who  had  been 
held  in  pain,  through  sorcery,  for  seven  years,  till  his 
wounds  should  be  touched  by  the  best  knight  in 
the  world.  This  knight  had  a  lovely  sister,  named 
Felelolie,  whom  Lavaine  married,  whereupon  King 
Arthur  made  him  a  Knight  of  the  Round  Table, 
and  gave  him  a  barony  of  land. 

As  for  Lancelot,  he  gained  great  fame  as  the 
Chevalier  of  the  Cart.  For  as  many  lords  and 
ladies  made  sport  of  him  as  the  knight  who  had  rid- 
den in  a  cart,  like  one  sentenced  to  the  gallows,  for 
a  whole  twelvemonth  he  never  mounted  horse,  but 
rode  only  in  a  cart,  during  which  time  he  had  many 


THE  CHEVALIER  OF  THE  CART.       279 

adventures  and  fought  forty  battles,  in  all  of  which 
he  came  off  victor. 

And  so  the  days  grew  into  years,  and  all  went 
happily  at  Arthur's  court,  though  each  passing 
day  brought  the  coming  time  of  woe  and  disaster 
nearer  to  hand. 


BOOK  XI. 

THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 


CHAPTER   I. 

THE   TRAPPING   OF   THE   LION. 

In  May,  when  every  lusty  heart  flourisheth  and 
bourgeoneth, — for  as  winter,  with  its  rough  winds 
and  blasts,  causes  man  and  woman  to  cover  and 
sit  fast  by  the  fire,  this  fresh  and  joyous  season 
brings  them  forth  to  gladden  in  the  coming  of  the 
flowery  summer, — in  this  rare  month  of  May,  when 
only  merry  thoughts  and  gentle  deeds  should  be 
known,  there  began  a  great  and  unhappy  season 
of  wrath,  which  ended  not  till  the  flower  of  chivalry 
of  all  the  world  was  destroyed.  And  this  all  came 
about  through  the  hate  and  jealousy  of  two  un- 
happy knights.  Sir  Agravaine  and  Sir  Mordred, 
brothers  unto  Sir  Gawaine. 

For  much  in  their  secret  souls  they  hated  the 
queen  and  Lancelot,  and  they  fell  to  watching  this 
good  knight  daily  and  nightly,  with  the  hope  of 
bringing  him  in  some  way  to  shame. 

Failing  in  this  base  endeavor,  they  no  longer 
concealed  their  enmity,  but  began  to  talk  openly 
of  the  love  of  Lancelot  for  the  queen,  and  to  hint 
that  shameful  relations  existed  between  them.    The 

280 


THE  TRAPPING  OP  THE  LION.  -     281 

report  of  this  slanderous  talk  coming  to  Gawaine's 
ears,  he  reproved  them  sharply  for  indulging  in 
such  base  and  unworthy  scandal,  in  which  he  was 
joined  by  his  brothers  Gareth  and  Gaheris. 

"  You  forget  what  Lancelot  has  done  for  you," 
said  Gawaine.  "Who  but  he  rescued  you  both 
when  held  in  prison  by  Sir  Turquin?  And  many 
other  things  he  has  done  in  your  favor.  Methinks 
such  kind  deeds  merit  better  return  than  this." 

"  Think  as  you  will,"  said  Agravaine,  "  I  have 
my  opinions  and  shall  hide  them  no  longer." 

As  they  thus  debated  King  Arthur  approached. 

"  Now,  brothers,  stint  your  noise,"  said  Gawaine. 

"  That  will  we  not,"  they  replied. 

"Then  the  devil  speed  the  pair  of  you,  if  you 
are  bent  on  mischief!  I  will  listen  to  no  more  of 
your  slanderous  talk." 

"  Nor  will  we,"  said  Gareth  and  Gaheris.  "  We 
owe  too  much  to  Lancelot  to  listen  to  the  false 
tales  of  evil  tongues." 

With  this  they  turned  and  walked  away  in  anger 
and  grief,  as  Arthur  came  up. 

"  What  is  this  ?  "  asked  the  king.  "  Is  there  bad 
blood  between  you  brethren  ?  " 

"They  do  not  care  to  hear  the  truth,"  said 
Agravaine,  "  but  to  my  fancy  it  has  been  kept  too 
long  from  your  knowledge.  We  are  your  sister^s 
sons.  King  Arthur,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  be  honest 
and  open  with  you." 

"  What  would  you  say  ?  "  asked  the  king. 

"  Simply  what  we  and  all  your  court  know  well, 
that  there  are  such  doings  between  Lancelot  and 
your  queen  as  axe  a  disgrace  to  this  realm  of 


282  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

England.    He  is  a  traitor  to  your  person  and  your 
honor,  and  this  we  stand  ready  to  prove." 

"This  is  a  perilous  charge  you  make/'  said 
Arthur,  deeply  moved.  "  Nor  am  I  ready  to  believe 
such  a  tale  on  your  mere  word.  You  have  gone 
far,  gentlemen;  too  far,  I  deem,  without  abundant 
proof.'' 

"My  lord,"  said  Mordred,  "we  speak  not  with- 
out due  warrant,  and  proof  you  shall  have.  What 
we  advise  is,  that  vou  ride  out  to  the  hunt  to- 
morrow.  Lancelot,  you  will  find,  will  have  some 
excuse  to  hold  back.  Then,  when  night  draws  near, 
send  word  to  the  queen  that  you  will  lie  out  all 
that  night.  Let  this  be  done,  and  we  promise  you 
we  shall  take  him  with  the  queen.  If  we  do  it  will 
go  hard  with  Lancelot;  for  we  shall  not  lightly  see 
our  king  brought  to  shame." 

"Be  it  so,"  said  the  king,  after  deep  thought, 
for  he  was  little  inclined  to  believe  ill  of  Lancelot. 
"  I  will  do  as  you  say.  Understand,  sir  knights,  I 
have  heard  all  this  before ;  yet  I  believe  it  not,  and 
I  consent  to  your  scheme  only  to  put  an  end  to  the 
vile  voice  of  scandal." 

On  the  next  morning,  as  agreed  upon,  Arthur 
rode  to  the  hunt;  but  Lancelot  excused  himself, 
as  his  enemies  had  predicted,  on  the  plea  that  he 
was  in  no  mood  for  the  chase.  When  night  came 
near  a  messenger  from  the  king  brought  word  to 
Guenever  that  the  hunting  party  had  been  drawn 
far  away,  and  would  not  return  that  night. 

Meanwhile  Mordred  and  Agravaine  selected 
twelve  knights,  all  of  them  enemies  of  Lancelot, 
to  whom  they  told  their  purpose,  and  set  them  on 


THE  TRAPPING  OF  THE  LION.  283 

guard  in  the  castle  of  Carlisle,  where  the  court 
then  was.  Of  Lancelots  friends  few  were  in  the 
court,  for  nearly  all  had  gone  with  the  king  to  the 
hunt. 

When  night  came,  Lancelot  told  Bors,  who  dwelt 
with  him,  that  he  had  a  fancy  to  go  and  speak  with 
the  queen. 

"  Do  not  go  to-night,  I  pray  you,'^  said  Bors. 

"  Why  not  to-night  ?  " 

"  I  fear  some  plot  of  that  rogue,  Agravaine,  who 
has  it  in  his  heart  to  work  you  ill.  I  have  heard 
a  whisper,  and  fear  that  the  king's  absence  to-night 
is  part  of  a  plot,  and  that  an  ambush  is  laid  to  do 
vou  harm.'' 

"  Have  no  dread  of  that,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I 
wish  only  some  minutes'  conversation  with  the 
queen,  and  will  quickly  return  again." 

"  I  should  rather  you  would  not  go.  I  am  in 
doubt  that  some  evil  may  come  of  it." 

"  Why  say  you  this  nephew  ?  Do  you  deem  that 
I  am  a  coward,  or  that  the  queen  is  my  mistress, 
as  the  evil-tongued  say  ?  I  go  because  she  has  sent 
for  me,  desiring  to  see  me.  Am  I  the  man  to  deny 
her  request  because  there  are  foul-mouthed  slan- 
derers abroad?" 

"  Go,  then,  since  I  see  you  will.  God  speed  you, 
and  send  you  back  safe  and  sound." 

Lancelot  thereupon  wrapped  himself  in  his  man- 
tle, and  taking  his  sword  under  his  arm  made  his 
way  to  the  castle,  which  was  some  distance  from  his 
residence.  Here  he  sought  and  entered  the  queen's 
chamber,  where  she  awaited  him  with  her  ladies. 

But  no  sooner  had  he  done  so,  and  scarcely  had 


284  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

he  spoken  a  word  to  his  royal  lady,  than  Mordred, 
Agravaine,  and  their  followers  burst  in  tumult  from 
the  chamber  in  which  they  had  been  concealed,  and 
loudly  exclaimed, — 

"  Traitor  knight !  Ijancelot  du  Lake,  false  and 
caitiff  wretch,  now  art  thou  taken  in  thy  treason ! '' 

So  loud  they  cried  that  their  voices  rang  through- 
out the  court,  and  they  crowded  round  the  door 
of  the  queen's  chamber,  bent  on  taking  Lancelot  un- 
armed, and  slaying  him  at  the  feet  of  Guenever. 
Fortunately  the  door  was  of  solid  oak,  and  a  damsel 
of  the  queen  had  hastily  shot  the  bolts. 

"  Alas ! "  cried  the  queen,  "  what  vile  plot  is 
this  ?    Mischief  is  around  us,  Lancelot !  " 

"  Is  there  ^ny  armor  in  your  chamber  ?  '^  asked 
Lancelot.  "  If  so,  give  it  to  me,  and  I  will  face 
this  malicious  crew.'^ 

"  There  is  none,''  said  the  queen.  "  I  see  no 
hope,  and  fear  our  love  has  come  to  a  fatal  end. 
There  seems  to  be  a  host  of  armed  knights  with- 
out. They  will  kill  you,  Lancelot,  and  death  will 
come  to  me  through  their  vile  charge  of  unchastity.'* 

"  Why  did  I  not  even  wear  as  much  of  my  armor 
as  I  fought  Meliagrance  with!'^  cried  Lancelot,  in 
distress.  "  If  I  had  but  listened  to  Sir  Bors !  Never 
was  I  caught  in  such  a  trap  before.'' 

As  they  spoke  the  tumult  without  increased,  and 
Mordred  and  Agravaine  cried  together, — 

"  Come  out,  thou  traitor  knight !  Think  not  to 
escape,  for  we  have  you  like  a  rat  in  a  trap.  Come 
out  and  meet  your  just  deserts." 

"  Shall  I  bear  this  ? "  cried  Lancelot,  flaming 
into  anger.    "  The  dogs !  a  dozen  of  them  in  armor 


THE  TRAPPING  OF  THE  LION.  285 

against  one  man  in  his  mantle!  I  would  rather 
meet  death  at  once  than  stand  and  hear  their  revil- 
ing tongues/^ 

Then  he  took  the  queen  in  his  arms  and  kissed 
her,  saying,— 

"Most  noble  Christian  queen,  I  beseech  you,  as 
you  have  ever  been  my  special  good  lady,  and  I 
your  poor  knight,  and  as  I  never  failed  you  in 
right  or  wrong  since  the  day  that  King  Arthur 
made  me  knight,  that  you  will  pray  for  my  soul  if 
I  be  here  slain.  For  you  may  be  sure  that  Sir 
Bors  and  my  other  kindred,  with  Tjavaine  and  others 
of  my  friends,  will  rescue  you  from  harm,  and  I 
beg  you  to  go  with  them  and  live  like  a  queen  on 
my  lands." 

"  That  will  T  not,  Lancelot,'^  said  the  queen.  "  If 
you  are  slain  for  me,  then  death  may  come  when 
it  will,  for  I  shall  not  live  long  to  mourn  you.'' 

"  Then,  since  my  last  hour  seems  to  have  come, 
and  our  love  and  life  must  cease  together,  so  let 
it  be;  but  some  of  those  barking  curs  shall  go  with 
me  to  the  shades.  I  am  heavier  at  heart  for  you 
than  for  myself.  Ah,  that  I  had  but  a  knighfs 
armor ! '' 

"  I  would  that  God  would  be  content  with  my 
death,  and  suffer  you  to  escape,''  said  the  queen. 

"  That  shall  never  be,"  said  Lancelot.  "  God 
defend  me  from  such  a  shame.  And  now  may  the 
Lord  Jesus  be  my  shield  and  my  armor." 

This  said,  he  wrapped  his  mantle  around  his 
arm,  and  approached  the  door.  As  he  did  so  the 
strong  oaken  portal  trembled  under  their  blows, 
for  they  had  got  a  great  form  out  of  the  hall,  and 
were  using  it  as  a  battering-ram. 


286  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 


a  ci. 


Save  your  trouble,  you  crew  of  mischief/'  said 
Lancelot.  "  Think  you  that  Lancelot  du  Lake 
needs  to  be  come  at  like  a  rabbit  in  its  hutch?  I 
fear  you  not,  and  dread  not  to  face  an  army  of  such 
hounds/' 

"  Come  out,  then,  or  let  us  into  that  chamber. 
It  avails  you  nothing  to  strive  against  us  all;  but 
we  will  promise  to  spare  your  life  till  we  have 
brought  you  to  King  Arthur." 

*^  Will  you  ?  "  said  Lancelot,  "  or  do  you  think  to 
slay  me  where  I  stand?     I  trust  you  not,  liars.'' 

Then  he  unbarred  the  door  and  with  his  left 
hand  held  it  open  a  little,  so  that  but  one  man  could 
enter  at  a  time.  As  he  did  so,  Colgrevance  of 
Gore,  who  stood  nearest,  pressed  forcibly  through 
the  opening,  and  struck  a  spiteful  blow  at  Lancelot 
with  his  sword.  This  Lancelot  parried,  and  returned 
so  fierce  a  stroke  with  his  own  good  blade,  that  he 
cut  through  the  helmet  and  skull  of  the  knight, 
and  stretched  him  dead  upon  the  floor. 

Then,  with  all  his  great  strength,  he  dragged  the 
bleeding  corpse  within  the  chamber,  closed  the  door 
against  the  pressure  of  all  who  bore  upon  it,  and 
replaced  the  bars.  "  So  much  for  this  daring  fool," 
he  cried.  "Thank  heaven,  I  have  an  armor  now! 
I  shall  not  be  quite  a  sheep  at  the  shambles." 

As  he  spoke  he  was  hastily  stripping  the  armor 
from  the  body  of  the  dead  knight.  This  done,  he 
quickly  arrayed  himself  in  it,  with  the  aid  of  the 
queen  and  her  ladies. 

Meanwhile  the  assault  on  the  door  continued, 
and  Mordred  and  Agravaine  kept  up  their  cry, — 

"  Traitor  knight !  come  out  of  the  queen's  cham- 
ber!" 


THE  TRAPPING  OF  THE  LION.  287 

"  Hold  your  peace/^  cried  Lancelot.  ^*  You  shall 
not  prison  me  here,  I  promise  you  that,  and  if 
you  take  my  counsel,  you  will  depart.  1  am  ready 
to  agree  on  my  knighthood  to  appear  to-morrow 
before  the  king,  and  answer  there  that  I  came  not 
to  the  queen  with  any  evil  purpose;  and  this  I 
stand  ready  to  prove  by  word  or  deed.^^ 

"  Out  on  you,  traitor !  ^'  cried  Mordred.  *^  Have 
you,  we  will,  and  slay  you  if  we  wish,  for  the  king 
has  given  us  the  choice  to  save  you  or  slay  you/' 

"  Is  that  your  last  word,  sirrahs  ?  Then  keep 
yourselves,  for  I  am  not  of  the  breed  that  die 
easily.'* 

As  he  spoke,  he  flung  down  the  bars  and  threw 
the  door  wide  open.  Then  he  strode  proudly  and 
mightily  among  them,  sword  in  hand  and  clad  in 
full  armor,  and  at  the  first  blow  from  his  mighty 
hand  stretched  Agravaine  dead  upon  the  floor. 
Like  a  maddened  lion  that  charges  upon  a  herd 
of  sheep,  he  now  rushed  upon  them,  striking  fiercely 
to  right  and  left,  and  felling  men  with  every 
blow,  till  in  a  little  while  twelve  more  of  his  as- 
sailants lay  cold  in  death,  for  there  was  not  a  man 
of  them  all  could  stand  one  blow  from  his  powerful 
arm. 

Of  the  whole  party  only  Mordred  remained  alive, 
and  he  fled  wounded  with  craven  haste.  Then 
Lancelot,  leaning  on  his  blood-dripping  sword, 
turned  to  the  queen,  who  stood  looking  at  his  deeds 
of  might,  with  white  lips  and  starting  eyes. 

^^  All  is  at  an  end  now,*'  he  said.  "  Henceforth 
King  Arthur  is  my  foe,  and  I  am  like  a  wolf  at 
bay.    Yet  I  fear  your  enemies  will  work  you  fatal 


288  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 


harm,  and  would  have  you  go  with  me,  and  let  me 
be  your  knight-protector.'* 

"  That  I  dread  to  do,"  said  the  queen,  "  for  vile 
slander  would  follow  my  footsteps.  I  had  better 
face  my  foes.  If  they  devise  to  put  me  to  death, 
then  you  may  come  to  my  rescue,  and  no  one  then 
can  blame  me  for  going  with  you." 

^'That  shall  I  do,"  said  Lancelot.  ''And  I 
promise  to  make  such  havoc  among  all  men  who 
mean  you  harm  as  I  have  done  among  those  who  lie 
here." 

Then  he  kissed  her,  and  each  gave  the  other  a 
ring;  and  so  he  left  the  queen  and  went  to  his 
lodgings. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE    RESCUE    OF    THE    QUEEN. 

Little  sleep  came  that  night  to  Lancelot  and 
his  friends.  For  when  he  came  again  to  Bors,  he 
had  found  him,  with  others  of  his  kindred,  armed 
and  ready  to  come  to  his  rescue.  They  listened 
with  concern  and  indignation  to  Lancelot's  story 
of  how  he  had  been  entrapped,  and  heard  with 
knightly  joy  the  story  of  his  bold  discomfiture  of 
his  foes. 

But  it  was  evident  to  them  all  that  the  event 
was  one  of  the  greatest  moment;  that  enmity 
would  exist  between  Lancelot  and  the  king,  and 
that  Guenever  might  be  adjudged  to  the  stake  on 
the  charge  of  infidelity  to  her  lord. 


THE  RESCUE  OF  THE  QUEEN.  289 

Therefore  Bors  took  it  upon  himself  to  gather 
in  Ijaneelot's  defence  all  his  kindred  and  friends; 
and  by  seven  o'clock  of  the  next  morning  he  had 
gained  the  word  of  twenty-two  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table.  To  these  were  added  knights  of 
North  Wales  and  Cornwall,  who  joined  Lancelot 
for  Laraorak's  and  Tristam's  sake,  to  the  number 
of  fourscore. 

To  these  Lancelot  told  all  that  had  occurred, 
and  expressed  his  fear  of  Arthur^s  hostility. 

"  I  am  sure  of  mortal  war,''  he  said,  "  for  these 
knights  claimed  to  have  been  sent  and  ordained  by 
King  Arthur  to  betray  me,  end  I  fear  the  king 
may,  in  his  heat  and  malice,  condemn  the  queen 
to  the  fire.  Trust  me,  that  I  will  not  suffer  her 
to  be  burnt  for  mv  sake.  She  is  and  has  been  ever 
.  a  true  lady  to  her  lord,  and  while  I  live  she  shall 
not  become  a  victim  to  the  malice  of  her  enemies." 

The  assembled  knights  agreed  with  him  in  this 
decision,  and  promised  their  utmost  aid  in  his  pur- 
pose of  rescue. 

"Eescue  her  I  shall,  whoever  may  be  hurt;  and 
I  trust  to  heaven  that  no  friend  of  mine  will  aid 
the  king  to  her  injury.  But  if  I  rescue  her,  where 
shall  I  keep  her?" 

"  Did  not  the  noble  Sir  Tristram,  with  your  good 
will,  keep  La  Belle  Isolde  three  years  in  Joyous 
Gard,  against  the  malice  of  King  Mark?"  said 
Bors.  "  That  place  is  your  own ;  and  there,  if  the 
king  adjudge  the  queen  to  the  stake,  you  may  keep 
her  till  his  heat  shall  cool.  Then  you  may  bring 
her  home  with  worship,  and  gain  Arthur's  thanks." 

"  That  may  not  work  so  well  as  you  fancy,"  said 

11-19 


290  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

Lancelot.  "  You  remember  what  a  return  Tristram 
got  from  King  Mark." 

"  That  is  another  story/'  replied  Bors.  "  You 
know  well  that  Arthur  and  Mark  are  men  of  differ- 
ent mould.  Mark  could  smile  and  play  the  traitor; 
but  no  man  living  can  say  that  King  Arthur  was 
ever  untrue  to  his  word.^' 

Their  conference  over,  by  the  advice  of  Lancelot 
the  knights  put  themselves  in  ambush  in  a  wood  as 
near  Carlisle  as  they  could  secretly  approach.  And 
there  they  remained  on  guard,  waiting  to  learn  what 
the  king  might  do. 

Meantime  Mordred,  though  wounded  by  Lance- 
lot's sword,  had  managed  to  mount  his  horse,  and 
rode  in  all  haste  to  tell  the  king  of  the  bloody  end 
of  the  ambush.  On  hearing  the  story,  Arthur's  mind 
was  divided  between  anger  and  pain. 

"  It  grieves  me  sorely  that  Ijancelot  should  be 
against  me,"  he  said ;  "  and  much  I  fear  that  the 
glorious  fellowship  of  the  Eound  Table  is  broken, 
for  many  of  our  noblest  knights  will  hold  with 
him.  But  dishonor  must  not  rest  upon  England's 
crown.  The  queen  has  played  me  false,  and  shall 
suffer  death  for  her  treason  to  her  wifely  duty.'^ 

For  the  law  was  such  in  those  days,  that  all,  of 
whatever  estate  or  degree,  found  guilty  of  treason, 
should  suffer  death.  And  so  it  was  ordained  in 
Queen  Guenever's  case — since  thirteen  knights  had 
been  slain,  and  one  escaped  sore  wounded,  in  de- 
fending the  king's  honor — that  she  should  be  taken 
to  the  stake,  and  there  be  burnt  to  death  as  a 
traitress. 

^'  My  lord  Arthur,"  said  Gawaine,  "  let  me  coun- 


THE  RESCUE  OF  THE  QUEEN.  291 

sel  you  not  to  be  over  hasty  in  this  severe  judgment, 
for  as  I  take  it  the  guilt  of  the  queen  is  not  proved. 
That  Lancelot  was  found  in  the  queen's  chamber  I 
admit;  but  he  might  have  come  there  with  no  evil 
purpose.  You  know  how  he  has  been  for  years  her 
chosen  knight,  and  how  much  he  has  done  for  her. 
She  may  have  sent  for  him  privily,  to  avoid  scandal, 
for  conference  on  some  innocent  subject.  What  we 
do  for  the  best  often  turns  to  the  worst,  and  I  dare 
affirm  that  my  lady  the  queen  is,  and  has  always 
been,  faithful  and  true  to  her  lord.  As  for  Lance- 
lot, I  doubt  me  not  he  will  make  good  what  I  have 
said  with  word  and  body,  against  any  and  all  that 
question  or  oppose.'^ 

"  That  I  believe,"  said  the  king.  "  I  know  Lan- 
celot's way.  But  his  boldness  does  not  prove  the 
queen's  innocence.  For  her  he  shall  never  fight 
again,  for  she  shall  suffer  the  penalty  of  the  law. 
And  if  I  can  lay  my  hands  on  him,  he  shall  die  the 
shameful  death  he  richly  merits." 

"  Then  may  Christ  save  me  from  ever  seeing  it," 
said  Gawaine. 

"  Why  say  you  this  ? "  demanded  the  king,  an- 
grily. "You  have  no  cause  to  love  him.  Last 
night  he  killed  your  brother  Agravaine,  and  here 
is  Mordred  sorely  wounded.  He  also  slew  two  of 
your  sons,  Sir  Florence  and  Sir  Lovel." 

"  I  know  all  that.  But  I  gave  them  warning 
beforehand  of  what  would  happen  if  .they  meddled 
in  this  affair.  They  brought  this  fate  on  them- 
selves. As  for  Agravaine,  he  stirred  up  this  scan- 
dalous business,  and  has  got  his  deserts." 

"  Say  no  more,"  cried  the  king,  in  hot  indigna- 


292  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

tion.  "  I  am  resolved.  The  honor  of  Arthur^s  wife 
must  be  above  suspicion.  She  has  fallen  from  chas- 
tity and  shall  die  the  death.  As  for  you,  Gawaine, 
I  bid  you  arm  in  your  best  armor,  with  your  breth- 
ren Gareth  and  Gaheris,  and  bring  her  to  thei  fire, 
that  she  may  there  hear  her  judgment,  and  receive 
the  death  she  merits.^' 

"No,  my  most  noble  lord,  that  shall  I  never 
do,"  said  Gawaine.  "  No  man  shall  say  that  I  had 
aught  to  do  with  the  death  of  this  worthy  lady, 
or  gave  my  word  in  favor  of  her  death.'' 

"  Then  bid  your  brothers,  Gareth  and  Gaheris, 
attend.'^ 

"  They  are  young,  and  may  not  withstand  your 
will;  but  they  shall  not  be  there  by  my  counsel," 
said  Gawaine,  stoutly. 

"We  must  attend,  if  you  command  us,''  said 
Gareth  and  Gaheris  to  the  king.  "  But  it  will  be 
sorely  against  our  wills.  If  come  we  must,  it  shall 
be  in  peaceful  guise,  and  without  warlike  array.'' 

"  Come  as  you  will,"  said  the  king.  "  This  I 
say,  she  shall  have  judgment  this  day." 

"  Alas !  that  I  have  ever  lived  to  see  this  woful 
day!"  said  Gawaine,  sadly,  and  as  he  turned  away 
the  tears  ran  hotly  from  his  eyes. 

But  the  king  was  bitterly  set  in  his  deadly  pur- 
pose, and  no  sooner  had  he  reached  Carlisle  than 
he  gave  command  that  the  queen  should  at  once 
be  led  to  tlie  place  of  execution,  there  to  be  burned 
as  a  traitress. 

When  tliis  fatal  decision  was  known  in  the  castle 
there  was  weeping  and  wailing  and  wringing  of 
hands  from  many  lords  and  ladies,  while  of  the 


ib' 


THE  RESCUE  OF  THE  QUEEN.  293 

knights  there  present,  few  would  consent  to  wear 
Jtrmor  to  compass  the  queen's  death. 

But  Arthur's  commands  none  dared  question, 
and  the  unhappy  lady  was  shriven  by  her  ghostly 
father,  and  bound  to  the  fatal  stake.  In  a  circle 
around  her  stood  a  guard  of  armed  knights,  while 
others  were  present  without  armor.  But  the  king 
was  not  there;  nor  would  Gawaine  show  himself 
at  that  shameful  scene. 

Then  fire  was  set  to  the  fagots  that  surrounded 
the  stake.  But  as  the  flames  began  to  curl  upwards 
there  came  a  shrill  bugle-blast  from  a  neighboring 
wood,  and  of  a  sudden  Lancelot  and  his  knights 
broke  from  their  ambush,  and  rode  upon  those  about 
the  fire,  striking  right  and  left  at  all  who  bore  arms 
and  withstood  them. 

Down  went  the  guard  of  knights  before  this 
fierce  onset,  till  full  twenty  of  them  lay  dead  on 
the  field.  But  by  sad  fortune,  as  Lancelot,  in  his 
warlike  fury  pressed  hither  and  thither,  cutting 
and  slashing  with  the  hot  rage  of  the  berserker, 
he  by  mishap  struck  the  two  unarmed  knights, 
Gareth  and  Gaheris,  and  stretched  them  dead  upon 
the  field. 

This  was  in  the  thick  of  the  frav,  and  he  knew 
not  what  he  had  done,  for  rather  would  he  have 
slain  himself  than  harmed  these,  his  faithful 
friends.  A  few  minutes  sufficed  to  kill  or  disperse 
all  the  guard.  Then  Lancelot  sprang  from  his 
horse,  scattered  the  blazing  fagots  with  his  foot, 
and  with  a  blow  of  his  sword  severed  the  bonds 
that  fastened  Guenever  to  the  stake. 

The  unhappy  lady  fell,  weeping,  into  his  arms, 
thanking  him  in  broken  accents.    With  all  due  haste 


294  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

he  mounted  her  on  a  horse  that  had  been  provided, 
and  rode  off  with  her  and  his  following  of  gallant 
knights  to  Joyous  Gard,  strong  of  heart  and  stout 
of  frame,  and  resolved  to  fight  for  her  to  the  death, 
for  more  than  ever  he  felt  himself  her  chosen  knight. 

And  when  word  went  through  the  country  round 
that  Arthur  and  Lancelot  were  at  odds,  many  a 
good  knight  rode  in  all  haste  to  his  castle,  bent 
on  taking  his  side  in  the  coming  war. 

But  when  the  news  was  brought  to  Arthur  of 
how  Lancelot  had  rescued  the  queen,  and  slain 
many  of  his  knights,  and  in  particular  Gareth  and 
Gaheris,  his  anger  turned  to  such  bitter  sorrow  and 
regret  that  he  swooned  from  pure  grief.  And  when 
he  came  to  his  senses  again  he  deeply  moaned,  and 
reproached  himself  for  the  evil  that  had  befallen. 

"  Alas !  that  I  ever  wore  the  crown !  ^^  he  be- 
wailed. "Within  these  two  days  I  have  lost  forty 
knights,  and,  above  all,  the  noble  fellowship  of 
Lancelot  and  his  kindred,  and  all  because  I  listened 
to  the  tongue  of  foul  detraction.  Alas!  that  ever 
this  fatal  thing  began !  Fair  friends,  see  that  none 
of  you  tell  Gawaine  of  what  has  happened,  for  he 
lovas  Gareth  so  deeply  that  I  fear,  when  he  hears 
of  his  death,  he  will  go  out  of  his  mind.  How  came 
Lancelot  to  slay  these  knights,  who  both  loved  him 
devotedlv  ?  " 

"  He  would  never  have  harmed  them  had  he 
known  them,"  said  a  knight.  "  It  was  in  the  midst 
of  the  hurtling  and  fierce  struggling,  when  swords 
strike  they  know  not  where.  Sad  he  will  be  when 
he  learns  what  he  has  done.'' 

"  I  am  heavier  for  the  loss  of  my  knights  than 


THE  RESCUE  OF  THE  QUEEN.  295 

of  my  queen/'  said  Arthur,  sadly.  "  Other  queens 
may  be  had,  but  such  a  fellowship  of  knights  can 
never  be  brought  together  again.  And  this  I  know, 
that  when  Gawaine  learns  of  Gareth's  death,  he  will 
never  rest,  nor  suffer  me  to  rest,  till  I  have  destroyed 
Lancelot  and  his  kindred,  or  they  have  destroyed 
me.  Ah,  Agravaine,  Agravaine,  Jesus  forgive  thy 
soul  for  thy  evil  will,  for  thou  and  thy  brother 
Mordred  have  caused  all  this  bitter  sorrow.'^ 

While  the  king  thus  complained,  a  tale-bearer, 
unheeding  his  injunctions,  came  to  Gawaine  big 
with  his  story,  and  told  him  of  the  rescue  of  the 
queen,  and  the  death  of  a  knightly  host. 

"  What  else  could  Lancelot  do  ?  '^  said  Gawaine. 
"T  should  have  done  as  much  mvself  had  I  stood 
in  his  place.  But  where  are  my  brothers?  Why 
hear  I  not  of  them  ?  " 

"  Truly,"  said  the  man ;  "  they  are  both  killed." 

"  Now,^  Jesus  forbid  !  What!  both?  Is  Gareth 
slain  ?    Dare  you  tell  me  so  ?  " 

"  Alas !  the  pitv  of  it !  " 

"  Killed  !     Who  killed  him  ?  " 

"  Sir  Lancelot  slew  them  both." 

"  That  is  false.  Gareth  loved  him  better  than 
he  did  me  or  the  king.  He  would  have  joined 
him  against  us  all,  had  Lancelot  desired.  And  he 
was  unarmed.  Dare  you  repeat  this  story?"  and 
he  caught  the  man  fiercely  by  the  shoulders  and 
glared  wildly  in  his  face. 

"Sir,  it  is  so  noised  abroad,"  said  the  man. 

"  Then  is  all  joy  gone  from  my  life,"  moaned 
Gawaine,  and  he  fell  to  the  floor  in  a  deep  swoon, 
in  which  he  lay  long  like  one  dead. 


296  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

But  when  Gawaine  recovered,  and  had  sought 
the  king,  and  learned  that  his  two  brothers  had 
been  killed,  unarmed  and  defenceless,  his  sorrow 
changed  to  bitter  and  revengeful  anger. 

"  My  king,  my  lord,  and  my  uncle,^'  he  sternly 
said,  "I  vow  by  my  knighthood  that  I  shall  never 
forgive  Lancelot  for  this  murderous  deed,  but  from 
this  day  forth  shall  remain  his  deadly  foe,  till  one 
of  us  has  slain  the  other.  War  to  the  death  it  shall 
be,  and  if  you  aid  me  not  I  shall  seek  Sir  Lancelot 
alone,  if  it  be  through  seven  kings^  realms,  till  I 
hold  him  to  answer  for  this  deed  of  blood.^' 

'^  You  shall  not  need  to  seek  him  so  far,'^  said 
the  king.  ''  They  say  that  Lancelot  awaits  us  in 
Joyous  Gard,  and  that  many  knights  have  joined 
him.^' 

"  Well  is  it  80,^^  said  Gawaine  fiercely.  "  Then 
my  lord  Arthur,  gather  your  friends,  and  I  will 
gather  mine.  Say  not  that  deeds  like  this  shall  go 
unpunished  in  England^s  realm.  Your  justice  de- 
fied !  My  unarmed  brothers  murdered !  Shall  this 
be  done,  and  we  basely  submit  ?  '^ 

"  You  speak  to  the  point,^'  said  the  king.  "  We 
must  strike  for  honor  and  revenge.  Strong  as  Lan- 
celot's castle  is,  and  bold  as  are  his  friends,  I  fancy 
I  can  gain  strength  enough  to  draw  him  out  of  the 
strongest  tower  in  it." 

Then  King  Arthur  sent  orders  far  and  wide 
through  the  land,  and  in  brief  time  there  came  to 
Carlisle  many  knights,  dukes,  and  earls,  so  that 
he  had  a  great  host.  These  the  king  informed  of 
what  had  happened,  and  of  his  purpose  to  force 
Lancelot  to  yield  up  his  queen,  and  to  punish  him 
for  his  trespass. 


THE  RETURN  OF  GUENEVER.        297 

Lancelot  meanwhile,  was  not  idle,  but  drew  to 
himself,  many  more  knights,  and  provisioned  his 
castle  fully,  for  he  well  knew  that  he  must  abide 
behind  walls,  as  he  was  far  too  weak  to  meet  the 
king^s  host  in  the  field. 

Not  many  days  had  elapsed  when  King  Arthur 
and  Gawaine  with  a  great  host  of  men,  laid  siege 
about  Joyous  Gard,  both  the  town  and  the  castle, 
and  war  replaced  the  peace  that  had  reigned  so 
long  in  the  land. 

But  Lancelot  lay  secure  in  his  castle,  and  for 
a  long  time  would  not  go  out  himself,  nor  suffer 
any  of  his  knights  to  pass  the  gates  of  town  or 
castle.  And  so  fifteen  weeks  of  the  siege  passed 
away. 


CHAPTER  HI. 

THE  RETURN  OF  GUENEVER. 

It  befell  upon  a  day  in  harvest-time  that  Lan- 
celot looked  over  the  walls  of  Joyous  Gard,  and 
seeing  below  him  the  king  and  Gawaine,  thus  spoke 
to  them, — 

"My  lords  both,  you  besiege  this  castle  in  vain. 
You  will  gain  more  dishonor  than  worship  here. 
If  I  chose  to  come  out,  with  my  knights,  I  should 
soon  bring  this  war  to  an  end/' 

"  Come  forth,  if  thou  darest ! "  cried  the  king, 
in  anger.  "  I  promise  to  meet  thee  in  the  midst 
of  the  field." 


298.  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

"  God'  defend  that  I  should  face  on  the  field  of 
battle  the  noble  king  who  made  me  knight/^ 

"  A  truce  to  your  fair  language/^  answered  the 
king.  "  Trust  me,  that  I  am  your  mortal  foe,  and 
will  be  so  till  the  day  of  my  death.  You  have 
slain  my  knights  and  dishonored  my  queen,  and 
hold  her  from  me  by  force,  like  a  traitor.  Think 
you  I  shall  lightly  forgive  this?'^ 

"You  may  say  what  you  will,  my  lord  and 
king,"  answered  Lancelot.  "  With  you  I  will  not 
fight;  but  as  for  your  lady  Guenever,  I  am  ready 
to  stand  for  her  innocence  against  any  knight 
under  heaven.  Those  who  have  slandered  me  and 
her  lie  in  their  teeth,  and  I  hold  myself  ready  to 
prove  to  the  death  that  she  is  as  true  and  chaste 
a  lady  as  ever  lived.  More  than  once,  my  lord,  you 
have  consented  that  she  should  be  burnt,  from  the 
voice  of  slander,  and  more  than  once  have  I  rescued 
her,  and  forced  the  lie  down  the  tliroats  of  her  slan- 
derers. Then  you  thanked  me  for  saving  her  from 
the  fire.  Now,  for  doing  you  the  same  high  service 
again,  you  bring  war  upon  me.  Your  queen  is  hon- 
est and  true,  and  if  you  wil  receive  her  to  your  good 
grace  again  I  stand  ready  to  deliver  her." 

Eecreant   knight ! "  cried   Gawaine,  in   wrath, 

I  warrant  you  my  lord  the  king  shall  have  his 
queen  and  you  too,  despite  your  fair  words  and 
proud  defiance,  and  shall  slay  you  both  if  it  please 
him.'^ 

"  That  may  be,  Gawaine,"  said  Lancelot.  *^  Yet 
if  I  chose  to  come  out  of  the  castle  you  would  not 
find  it  quite  child^s  play  to  win  me  and  the  queen.^* 

"  Save  your  boastful  words,"  said  Gawaine.  *^  As 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        299 

for  my  lady,  the  queen,  I  shall  say  naught  to  her 
dishoner.  But,  recreant  knight,  what  cause  had  you 
to  slay  my  brother  Gareth,  who  loved  you  with  his 
whole  soul?^^ 

"  I  shall  not  seek  an  excuse  for  that  deed,^'  said 
Lancelot.  "  I  would  with  as  good  will  have  slain 
my  nephew  Sir  Bors.  All  I  may  say  is  that  it  was 
done  in  the  heat  of  battle,  and  I  knew  not  they 
were  slain  till  word  was  brought  me  here." 

"  You  lie  in  your  teeth  !  "  cried  Gawaine.  "  You 
killed  them  in  despite  of  me;  and  for  this  foul  deed 
I  shall  make  war  on  you  while  I  live.'^ 

"  If  you  are  so  hotly  set,  there  is  no  use  for  me 
to  seek  accord;  yet  I  am  truly  sorry  for  their 
deaths  and  your  enmity.  Only  for  this  I  would  soon 
have  the  good  grace  of  my  lord  Arthur/^ 

"  That  may  be,  traitor,  but  you  will  wait  long 
for  peace.  You  have  lorded  it  over  me,  and  the 
whole  of  us,  too  long,  and  slain  knights  at  your 
will.     Now  our  turn  has  come." 

"  No  one  dare  say  that  I  ever  killed  a  knight 
through  treachers^  as  you,  Gawaine,  have  done." 

"  You  mean  Sir  I^amorak.    Him  I  slew,  man  to 


man." 


"Who  lies  now?  You  know  well  that  you  and 
the  crew  that  set  upon  him  dared  not  meet  him 
face  to  face.  You  struck  him  treacherously  from 
behind." 

"  A  truce  to  Lamorak.  This  you  may  know, 
that  I  will  never  leave  you  till  I  deal  with  you  as 
I  did  with  him." 

"  Murder  me,  you  mean !  I  fancy  you  might 
if  you  caught  me  in  such  a  strait,  which  you  will 
not  easily  do." 


300  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

f 

Then  others  took  the  cue  from  Gawaine,  and 
the  cry  went  up  from  many  voices :  "  False  and 
recreant  knight!  how  long  will  you  hide  behind 
your  castle  walls,  like  a  rat  in  his  hole?^' 

"  How  long  is  this  to  last  ?  ^'  said  Bors  and  others 
to  Lancelot.  "  We  pray  you  to  keep  us  no  longer 
within  these  walls,  but  let  us  out  to  do  battle  with 
them.  Men  will  say  next  that  you  are  afraid.  As 
for  fair  speech,  it  is  thrown  away.  Gawaine  will 
never  forgive  you,  nor  suffer  you  to  make  accord 
with  the  king.  Therefore  fight  for  your  right,  for 
to  that  it  must  come.'^ 

"  I  am  loath  to  do  so,^'  said  Lancelot. 

Then  he  called  from  the  wall  to  the  king, — 

"  My  knights  demand  that  I  let  them  sally  from 
the  castle.  I  therefore  pray  that  neither  you  nor 
Sir  Gawaine  come  into  the  field,  for  to  you  two  I 
wish  no  harm.'' 

"  What  then  ?  Shall  we  cower  in  our  tents  while 
others  fight  our  battles  ?  "  cried  Gawaine.  ^^  This 
quarrel  is  mine  and  the  king's.  Shall  we  not  fight 
in  it  ?  " 

"  If  you  will,  you  will ;  but  I  seek  not  battle  with 
either  of  you." 

Then  they  drew  back,  and  both  sides  made  ready 
for  battle.  And  Gawaine,  with  deadly  intent,  set 
aside  a  strong  body  of  knights,  bidding  them  to 
attack  Lancelot  in  force,  and  slay  him  if  they  could. 

When  the  next  morning  came,  King  Arthur  drew 
up  his  host  against  the  castle  in  three  great  bands. 
And  Lancelot's  fellowship  issued  from  the  castle 
at  three  gates,  the  three  bapds  being  led  by  Lance- 
lot, Bors,   and   Lionel.     But   Lancelot  had  given 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        301 

strict  charge  to  his  knights  to  avoid  harming  King 
Arthur  and  Sir  Gawaine. 

Fierce  was  the  battle  that  followed,  and  many 
good  knights  were  slain.  It  began  with  a  chal- 
lenge from  Gawaine,  who  came  out  before  the  king's 
host  and  dared  any  knight  of  Lancelot's  to  joust 
with  him.  This  challenge  Lionel  accepted,  but 
Gawaine  thrust  him  through  the  body,  and  dashed 
him  to  the  earth  like  a  dead  man.  Then  his 
friends  rushed  to  his  rescue  and  drove  back  his  foes, 
bearing  him  from  the  field  into  the  castle.  This 
affray  brought  on  a  hot  and  fiery  battle,  and  soon 
the  air  was  filled  with  shouts,  and  the  earth  strewn 
with  dead  and  wounded  men. 

In  the  midst  of  this  fray  the  king  hotly  attacked 
Lancelot;  but  that  faithful  knight  patiently  en- 
dured his  assault,  and  lifted  not  a  hand  in  defence. 
But  Bors,  seeing  his  danger,  rushed  in,  and,  with 
a  spear  thrust,  hurled  King  Arthur  to  the  ground. 
Quickly  leaping  from  his  horse,  he  drew  his  sword, 
and  said, — 

"Shall  I  make  an  end  of  this  war?'^ 

"  On  pain  of  your  head,  no !  Harm  not  the 
king!    I  shall  not  stand  by  and  see  him  slain.'^ 

Then  Lancelot  sprang  to  the  ground  and  helped 
the  king  to  his  horse  again,  saying,  — 

"  My  lord  Arthur,  for  God's  sake,  end  this  strife ! 
I  will  not  fight  you,  though  you  kill  me,  nor  have 
I  the  heart  to  fight  your  men.  My  lord,  remember 
what  I  have  done  for  you.  Is  not  this  an  evil 
reward  ?  " 

When  Arthur  heard  these  words  tears  flowed 
from  his  eyes,  for  Lancelot's  courtesy  had  over- 


302  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

eoine  his  anger.  He  turned  and  rode  away,  saying 
sadly,— 

"  Alas !    that  this  war  ever  began/^ 

ITien  both  sides  drew  off,  and  parties  of  each 
began  the  sad  duty  of  burying  the  dead,  while  the 
wounded  were  borne  away,  and  healing  salves  ap- 
plied to  their  wounds. 

The  next  day  the  battle  was  renewed,  and  fought 
with  the  same  deadly  energy  as  before.  On  this 
day  Bors  led  the  foremost  party,  and  met  Gawaine 
as  Lionel  had  done  the  day  before.  Fiercely  to- 
gether they  rode,  and  both  were  hurled  to  the  ground 
with  deep  and  dangerous  wounds.  Around  them 
the  battle  raged  with  double  fierceness,  but  Lance- 
lot broke  in  and  rescued  Bors,  and  had  him  borne 
to  the  castle,  while  the  other  party  bore  off 
Gawaine. 

Then,  as  the  battle  continued,  Lavaine  and  others 
begged  liancelot  to  put  forth  his  strength  and  fight 
with  his  full  might,  for  he  imperilled  them  all  by 
his  forbearance. 

^^  Why  should  you  spare  your  foes  ?  "  they  said. 
"  You  do  but  harm  thereby.  Your  enemies  spare 
not  you." 

"  I  have  no  heart  to  fight  against  the  king,''  said 
Lancelot. 

"  If  you  spare  them  all  this  day  they  will  never 
thank  you,''  said  Palamides.  "And  if  they  get 
the  better  of  you  they  will  slay  you  without  mercy.'' 

Lancelot  saw  that  this  was  but  the  truth,  and 
stirred  by  this  and  the  wound  of  Sir  Bors,  he 
rushed  into  the  fray  with  his  old  might  and  fury, 
forcing  back  all  before  him.     Glad  to  see  the  old 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        303 

Lancelot,  his  followers  pressed  forward,  driving 
back  the  foe,  so  that  by  eventide  they  had  the  best 
of  the  fray,  and  their  horses  went  fetlock  deep  in 
the  blood  of  the  slain. 

Then,  in  pity  for  Arthur,  Lancelot  blew  the 
recall,  and  sulfered  the  king's  party  to  withdraw 
without  further  slaughter. 

After  this  there  was  peace  between  the  parties 
for  many  days,  for  Gawaine  had  been  so  sorely 
hurt  that  he  could  not  stir  the  king  to  active  war, 
and  Arthur  after  awhile  returned  to  Carlisle,  leav- 
ing the  castle  closely  besieged. 

But  the  story  of  this  war  had  now  passed 
through  Christendom,  and  had  reached  the  pope, 
who,  feeling  that  war  between  King  Arthur  and 
Lancelot  was  like  battle  between  brothers,  sent  a 
letter  to  the  king,  commanding  him,  under  pain 
of  an  interdict  upon  all  England,  to  take  his 
Queen  Guenever  into  favor  again,  and  to  make  peace 
and  accord  with  Sir  Lancelot. 

This  Papal  bull  was  brought  to  Arthur  by  the 
bishop  of  Eochester,  who  was  then  at  Eome.  When 
the  king  had  heard  it  read  he  knew  not  what  to 
do.  He  agreed  to  take  back  the  queen,  and  in  his 
heart  desired  to  make  friends  with  Lancelot;  but 
to  this  Gawaine,  who  had  then  the  greatest  influ- 
ence over  him,  would  not  consent. 

In  the  end  it  was  agreed  that  if  Lancelot  would 
bring  back  the  queen  he  should  come  and  go  in 
safety,  and  that  no  word  should  be  spoken  to 
Guenever,  by  the  king  or  other  person,  of  aught 
that  had  happened  in  the  past. 

Then  the  bishop  had  from  the  king  his  assur- 


304  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

ance,  under  the  great  seal  of  the  realm,  as  he  was 
a  true  anointed  knight,  that  Sir  Lancelot  should 
come  and  return  in  safety,  and  that  the  queen 
should  not  he  spoken  to  bj  the  king,  or  any  other, 
concerning  what  had  passed.  With  tiiis  safe-con- 
duct, written  at  length  and  signed  by  King  Arthur, 
the  holy  prelate  rode  in  state  to  Joyous  Grard,  where 
he  made  Lancelot  acquainted  with  all  that  had  hap- 
pened, telling  him  of  the  pope's  action,  and  of  the 
peril  he  would  encounter  if  he  withheld  the  queen 
from  the  king. 

It  was  never  in  my  thought,''  said  Lancelot, 

to  withhold  Queen  Guenever  from  my  lord  Ar- 
thur. All  men  know  why  I  have  her  in  charge. 
She  would  have  suffered  a  shameful  death  through 
the  king's  unjust  anger  had  I  not  been  on  hand  to 
save  her  life;  and  I  hold  her  only  from  peril  of 
that  vile  sentence,  which  has  never  until  now  been 
remitted.  I  thank  the  pope  heartily  that  he  has 
made  peace  between  Guenever  and  the  king,  and 
God  knows  that  I  will  be  a  thousand-fold  gladder 
to  take  her  back  than  I  ever  was  to  bring  her  away. 
All  I  demand  is,  that  I  shall  come  and  go  in  safety, 
and  that  the  queen  shall  have  her  liberty  as  before, 
and  stand  in  no  peril  from  this  or  any  former 
charge  against  her.  For  else  I  dare  venture  to 
keep  her  from  a  harder  shower  than  ever  yet  has 
fallen  upon  her  or  me." 

"  You  need  dread  nothing  either  for  yourself  or 
the  queen,"  replied  the  bishop.  "You  know  full 
well  that  the  pope  must  be  obeyed,  by  the  king  as 
well  as  by  you.  It  were  not  to  the  pope's  worship 
nor  my  poor  honor  that  you  should  be  distressed,  or 


THE  RETURN  OF  GUENEVER.        305 

the  queen  put  to  shame  or  peril.  And  as  for  King 
Arthur,  here  is  his  promise,  under  his  own  writing 
and  seal/' 

Then  he  showed  Lancelot  all  the  written  docu- 
ments he  had  brought,  both  from  the  pope  and  the 
king. 

"  That  suffices,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I  would  trust 
King  Arthur's  bare  word  as  I  would  the  oath  of 
half  Christendom.  No  man  can  say  that  he  ever 
broke  his  plighted  faith.  Therefore,  I  beg  you  to 
ride  before  me  to  the  king,  and  recommend  me  to 
his  good  grace,  letting  him  know  that  in  eight  days 
from  to-day,  by  the  grace  of  God,  I  shall  bring  to 
him  his  lady  Queen  Guenever.  And  say  this  fur- 
ther to  him,  that  I  stand  ready  to  meet  any  one  in 
the  lists  for  the  queen's,  fair  fame  except  himself 
and  Sir  Gawaine,  and  the  latter  more  from  the 
king's  love  for  him  than  from  aught  of  his  own 
deserts." 

With  this  agreement  the  bishop  departed  to 
Carlisle,  and  when  he  had  told  the  king  how  nobly 
Lancelot  had  spoken,  the  tears  started  from  Ar- 
thur's eyes,  and  much  he  deplored  in  his  heart  the 
cruel  chance  that  had  aroused  war  between  him  and 
his  dearest  friend. 

Lancelot  now  made  ready  a  hundred  knights, 
who  were  all  dressed  in  green  velvet,  with  their 
horses  trapped  to  their  heels,  while  each  knight 
held  in  his  hand  an  olive  branch,  in  token  of  peace. 
For  the  queen  there  were  provided  four  and  twenty 
gentlewomen,  who  followed  her  in  the  same  guise; 
while  Lancelot  was  followed  by  twelve  coursers,  on 
each  of  which  sat  a  young  gentleman,  and  these 

11-20 


THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

Sre  arrayed  in  green  velvet  with  golden  girdles, 
id  the  horses  trapped  to  the  heels  with  rich  cloths, 

it  with  pearls  and  stones  in  gold,  to  the  number 
a  thousand.    As  for  Lancelot  and  Guenever,  they 

'^ere  clothed  in  white  cloth-of-gold  tissue.     And 
in  this  array  they  rode  from  Joyous  Gard  to  Carl-  ! 

[isle,  and  through  Carlisle  to  the  castle,  while  many 
an  eye  shed  tears  on  seeing  them. 

Then  Lancelot  alighted  and  took  the  queen,  and 
led  her  to  where  Arthur  sat,  with   Gawaine  and  i 

many  great  lords  before  him.     Then  he  kneeled,  j 

and  the  queen  with  him. 

Many  of  the  assembled  knights  wept  bitterly 
on  seeing  this,  but  the  king  sat  in  haughty  silence, 
looking  steadily  upon  the  pair  who  knelt  before  him. 
Seeing  his  countenance,  Lancelot  rose  and  forced 
the  queen  to  rise  also.  Then  thus  he  spoke  in 
knightly  pride, — 

"  My  lord  the  king,  by  the  pope's  command  and 
yours  I  have  brought  you  my  lady,  the  queen,  as 
right  requireth.  If  there  be  any  knight,  whatever 
his  degree,  exce])t  your  sacred  self,  who  shall  dare 
say  she  has  been  untrue  to  you,  I,  Lancelot  du 
Lake,  stand  ready  to  make  her  honor  good  with  my 
bodv.  To  liars  you  have  listened,  and  that  has 
caused  all  the  trouble  between  you  and  me.  Time 
has  been,  my  lord  Arthur,  when  j-ou  have  been  * 
greatly  pleased  with  me  in  that  I  did  battle  for 
my  lady  your  queen.  Full  well  you  know,  my  most 
royal  sir,  that  she  hns  been  put  to  great  wrong 
before  this  time;  and  since  it  pleased  you  then 
that  I  should  fight  for  her,  it  seems  to  me  that  I 
had  still  more  cause  this  last  time  to  rescue  her 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        307 

from  the  fire,  since  she  was  to  have  been  burnt  for 
my  sake.  Had  not  the  might  of  God  been  with  me, 
think  you  that  I  could,  unarmed,  have  prevailed 
over  fourteen  armed  knights  ?  I  was  sent  for  by  the 
queen,  who  wished  to  confer  with  me,  but  had  barely 
stepped  within  her  chamber,  when  out  burst  Mor- 
dred  and  Agravaine,  calling  me  traitor  and  recreant 
knight/' 

"  They  called  you  truly,''  said  Gawaine. 

"Did  they  so,  Gpwaine?  By  heaven,  in  their 
quarrel  they  failed  to  prove  themselves  in  the 
right." 

"I  have  given  you  no  cause  to  do  evil  to  me, 
Lancelot,"  said  the  king.  "  For  I  have  loved  you 
and  yours  more  than  all  my  other  knights." 

"  My  good  lord  and  liege,"  answered  Lancelot, 
"I  beg  it  may  not  displease  you  if  I  answer  that 
vou  have  better  cause  to  love  me  and  mine  than 
most  knights,  for  none  have  done  you  such  service 
as  we  have  at  many  times  and  in  many  places. 
Often  have  I  myself  rescued  you  from  deadly  peril, 
when  you  were  hard  pressed  by  your  foes;  and  it 
has  ever  been  my  joy  to  please  you,  and  my  lord 
Gawaine  as  well,  in  jousts  and  tournaments,  and  in 
set  battles,  both  on  horse  and  on  foot.  I  wish  not 
to  boast  of  my  deeds,  yet  you  all  know  well  that 
I  never  met  a  knight  but  that  I  was  able  to  stand 
against  him,  and  have  always  done  my  duty  like 
a  man.  I  have  been  matched  with  good  knights, 
such  as  Sir  Tristram  and  Sir  Lamorak,  whom  I 
loved  for  their  valor  and  honesty.  And  I  take  God 
to  witness,  that  I  was  never  angry  with  or  jealous 
of  any  good  knight  whom  I  saw  active  to  win  honor. 


308  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

and  was  ever  glad  at  heart  when  I  found  a  knight 
who  was  able  to  endure  me  on  horseback  or  on  foot. 
Sir  Carados  of  the  dolorous  tower  was  a  noble 
knight  and  a  man  of  mighty  strength,  and  this 
you  know  full  well.  Sir  Gawaine,  since  he  pulled 
you  from  your  horse,  and  bound  you  before  him  on 
his  saddle.  Yet  I  rescued  you  from  him,  and  slew 
him  before  your  eyes.  In  like  manner  I  found  his 
brother,  Sir  Turquine,  leading  your  brother.  Sir 
Gaheris,  bound  on  his  saddle,  and  slew  him,  and 
rescued  vour  brother,  as  also  three-score  and  four 
of  King  Arthur^s  knights  whom  he  held  in  prison. 
Never  met  I  with  as  strong  and  hard-fighting  knights 
as  Sir  Carados  and  Sir  Turquine,  and  I  fought 
with  them  to  the  uttermost  for  the  sake  of  you  and 
your  brother.  It  seems  to  me.  Sir  Gawaine,  that 
you  ought  to  bear  in  mind  this  good  service  I  did 
for  you  in  the  past.  If  I  might  but  have  your 
good  will  in  return,  I  would  trust  to  God  to  have 
my  lord  Arthur^s  kindly  grace." 

"  The  king  may  do  as  he  will,"  said  Gawaine ; 
"but  while  I  live  I  shall  never  be  in  accord  with 
you.  I  cannot  forget  that  you  have  killed  three 
of  my  brothers,  two  of  them  treacherously  and 
pitilessly,  for  they  wore  no  armor  against  you,  and 
refused  to  bear  any." 

"  Would  to  heaven  they  had  been  armed,  for  then 
they  would  now  be  alive,"  said  Lancelot.  "  I  tell 
you  this,  Sir  Gawaine,  that  T  love  none  of  my  own 
kinsmen  as  T  did  3^our  brother.  Sir  Gareth,  and 
would  far  rather  have  slain  myself  than  him.  Never 
while  I  live  shall  I  cease  to  mourn  his  death,  not 
alone  for  your  bitter  sorrow  and  anger,  but   for 


THE  RETURN  OF  GUENEVER.        309 

other  causes  which  concern  myself.  One  is,  that 
it  was  I  who  made  him  a  knight;  another  is,  that 
he  loved  me  above  all  other  knights;  a  third  is, 
that  he  was  ever  noble,  true,  courteous,  and  gen- 
tle. I  never  would  have  slain,  or  even  hurt,  either 
Gareth  or  Gaheris  by  my  will;  and  sad  at  heart  am 
I  that  this  fatal  chance  has  robbed  me  of  your 
love  and  made  undying  war  between  us,  and  has 
caused  my  noble  lord  and  king  to  be  my  mortal  foe. 
May  Jesus  forgive  me  for  this  cruel  chance,  which 
the  fates  have  laid  upon  me.  In  reparation  for  this 
sad  misfortune,  I  shall  freely  offer,  if  it  will 
please  the  king's  good  grace,  and  yours,  my  lord 
Gawaine,  to  do  penance  in  this  wise.  I  shall  start 
from  Sandwich,  and  go  in  my  shirt,  barefoot,  and 
at  every  ten  miles*  end  I  shall  found  a  religious 
house,  of  what  order  you  wish,  where  shall  be  sung 
and  read  day  and  night  psalms  and  masses  for  the 
repose  of  Sir  Gareth  and  Sir  Gaheris.  This  I 
shall  perform  from  Sandwich  to  Carlisle.  This,  Sir 
Gawaine,  seems  to  me  fairer,  holier,  and  better  for 
their  souls  than  that  you  and  the  king  should  make 
war  upon  me;  for  little  good  to  any  is  likely  to 
come  from  it.'' 

Then  the  knights  and  ladies  there  wept  as  though 
they  were  distracted,  and  the  tears  fell  hot  on  King 
Arthur's  cheeks.  But  no  shadow  of  softness  came 
to  Gawaine's  stern  face. 

"  The  king,  as  I  have  said,  may  do  as  it  pleases 
him,"  he  answered,  "  but  I  shall  never  forgive  you 
for  the  murder  of  mv  brothers.  If  mv  uncle.  King 
Arthur,  accords  with  you,  he  shall  lose  my  service, 
for  I  hold  you  false  both  to  the  king  and  me.'* 


310  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

"The  man  lives  not  that  can  make  that  good/' 
cried  Lancelot.  "  If  you  charge  me  thus,  I  am  ready 
to  answer  you  with  spear  and  sword  since  words 
you  disdain.'^ 

That  cannot  be  at  this  time/^  said  Gawaine. 

You  are  here  under  the  king's  safe-conduct,  and 
so  must  depart.  If  it  were  not  for  the  pope's 
command  and  the  king's  given  word,  I  should  do 
battle  with  you,  body  to  body,  and  prove  upon 
you  that  you  have  been  false  both  to  the  king  and 
to  me.  In  this  land  you  shall  not  abide  more  than 
fifteen  days,  for  I  give  you  open  warning  that  your 
safe-conduct  lasts  only  for  that  time.  In  this  the 
king  and  we  all  were  agreed  before  you  came  hither. 
Only  for  this  you  would  now  find  that  my  words 
are  ready  to  be  backed  up  with  deeds.  And  this 
you  shall  find  wheresoever  I  shall  meet  you  here- 
after.^' 

Then  Lancelot  sighed,  and  tears  fell  upon  his 
cheeks. 

"  Alas,  most  Christian  realm,"  he  said,  "  that  I 
have  loved  above  all  other  realms,  and  most  Chris- 
tian king,  whom  I  have  worshipped  next  to  my 
God.  From  both  I  am  banished,  without  cause  or 
warrant.  Truly  I  am  sorry  that  I  ever  came  into 
this  •  land,  to  be  thus  causelessly  and  shamefully 
treated,  after  my  long  service  here.  So  is  it  ever 
with  fortune,  whose  wheel  is  so  changeable  that 
there  is  no  constant  abiding ;  and  this  may  be  proved 
by  the  old  chronicles  of  noble  Hector  of  Troy,  and 
Troilus,  and  Alexander  the  mighty  conqueror,  and 
many  more.  When  thoy  were  highest  they  quickly 
became  lowest;  and  thus  has  it  fared  with  me.    No 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        311 

living  men  have  brought  more  honor  and  glory  to 
the  Round  Table  than  I  and  my  kindred,  and  yet 
we  stand  banished  from  the  land  which  owes  us  such 
worthy  service.  As  for  you,  Gawaine,  I  can  live 
upon  my  native  lands  as  well  as  any  knight  here. 
And  if  you,  redoubted  king,  shall  seek  me  there  in 
hostile  array,  I  must  endure  you  as  well  as  I  may. 
If  you  come  thither,  Gawaine,  see  that  you  charge 
me  not  with  treason  or  felony,  for  if  you  do,  it 
will  scarcely  end  with  words." 

"  Do  your  worst,"  cried  Gawaine,  hotly.  "  And 
get  you  gone  from  here  as  fast  as  you  can.  We 
shall  soon  come  after,  and  tumble  your  strongest 
castle  upon  your  head." 

"  That  shall  not  need,"  said  Lancelot.  *^  You 
may  find  me  ready  to  meet  you  in  open  field." 

"  There  have  been  words  enough,"  said  Gawaine. 
"  Deliver  the  queen  and  take  yourself  away." 

"  If  T  had  looked  for  so  short  a  reception  I  would 
have  thought  twice  before  coming,"  answered  Lan- 
celot, proudly.  "If  the  queen  had  been  as  dear 
to  me  as  you  would  make  her,  I  durst  have  kept 
her  from  the  best  fellowship  of  knights  under 
heaven." 

Then  he  turned  to  Guenever  and  said,  in  full 
hearing  of  the  king  and  all  there, — 

"  Madam,  now  I  must  depart  from  you  and  this 
noble  fellowship  forever.  Since  it  is  so,  I  beseech 
you  to  pray  for  me.  And  if  you  be  slandered  by 
any  false  tongues,  send  me  word,  my  lady,  and 
if  one  knight's  hands  may  deliver  you  by  battle, 
I  shall   deliver  vou." 

Then  Lancelot  kissed  the  queen,  and  said  openly 
to  all  present, — 


312  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

"  Now  let  me  see  who  there  is  in  this  place  that 
dare  say  Queen  Guenever  is  not  true  unto  my  lord 
King  Arthur !    Let  him  speak  who  dare  speak/' 

He  looked  proudly  around  the  hall,  from  right 
to  left,  but  no  voice  came  in  answer.  Then  he 
took  the  queen  by  the  hand  and  led  her  to  the 
king,  and  delivered  her  to  his  royal  hand.  This 
done,  Lancelot  turned  and  walked  from  the  hall 
with  haughty  stride;  and  there  was  neither  duke, 
earl,  nor  king,  baron  nor  knight,  lady  or  maiden, 
that  wept  not  at  the  sorrowful  parting,  except  Sir 
Gawaine.  And  when  Lancelot  took  his  horse  to 
ride  out  of  Carlisle  there  was  sobbing  and  weeping 
from  all  the  people  who  had  gathered  in  the  streets 
to  see  him  depart.  And  so  he  took  his  way  to  Joyous 
Gard,  which  ever  after  he  called  Dolorous  Gard. 
And  thus  departed  Sir  l-.ancelot  du  Lake  from  the 
court  of  King  Arthur  forever. 

He  now  called  his  fellowship  about  him,  and 
asked  them  what  they  would  do. 

"Whatever  you  will,''  they  answered  with  one 
voice. 

"  Then,  my  brave  and  faithful  friends,  we  must 
leave  this  realm.  It  is  sore  to  me  to  be  banished, 
and  had  I  not  dreaded  shame,  the  lady  Guenever 
should  never  have  left  me." 

"  If  you  stay  in  this  land  we  shall  not  fail  you," 
said  his  knights.  "If  you  depart  hence  we  shall 
go  with  you." 

"  My  fair  lords,  I  thank  you  heartily,"  answered 
Lancelot,  with  much  feeling.  "  If  you  come  with 
me  to  ray  realm  beyond  the  sea,  I  shall  divide  my 
lands  among  you,  till  I  have  as  little  as  any  of  you. 


THE  RETURN  OP  GUENEVER.        313 

I  care  for  only  enough  to  live  upon,  and  trust  to 
maintain  you  in  knightly  honor." 

"  So  let  it  be/'  they  rejoined.  "  Here,  now  that 
the  fellowship  of  the  Eound  Table  is  broken,  there 
will  be  no  more  peace,  but  only  strife  and  tur- 
moil. You  were  the  stay  of  Arthur's  court.  Sir 
Lancelot.  With  you  gone,  all  quiet  and  harmony 
will  depart." 

"  You  praise  me  too  highly,  gentlemen.  I  did 
my  duty;  but  not  T  alone.  Yet  I  fear,  when  we 
are  gone,  we  will  soon  hear  of  wars  and  rebellions, 
from  those  who  dared  not  raise  their  heads  when 
we  were  all  together.  Mordred  I  fear  above  all. 
He  is  envious  and  ambitious,  and  if  King  Arthur 
shall  trust  him  I  dread  me  groatly  he  will  find  him 
a  stinging  serpent." 

Then,  soon  after,  they  left  Joyous  Gard,  and 
shipped  at  Cardiff  to  pass  beyond  the  seas  to  Lan- 
celot's realm  of  Benwick.  Some  men,  indeed,  call 
it  Bayonne,  and  some  call  it  Beume,  the  land 
whence  comes  the  wine  of  Beume.  Yet  to  say  sooth, 
Lancelot  and  his  nephews  were  lords  of  all  France, 
and  had  there  a  host  of  towns  and  castles,  and 
many  people  at  their  command. 

There  went  with  him  a  hundred  proven  knights, 
whom  he  rewarded  as  he  had  promised.  For  he 
shortly  called  a  parliament,  where  he  crowned  Lionel 
king  of  France.  Bors  he  made  king  of  the  realm 
of  King  Claudas;  and  Hector  de  Maris,  King  of 
Benwick  and  Guienne ;  while  his  other  knights  were 
made  dukes  and  earls,  till  all  were  nobly  provided 
for. 

Thus  Lancelot  rewarded    his    faithful   friends. 


314  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

And  he  furnished  and  provisioned  his  towns  and 
castles,  and  gathered  the  men  of  war  of  the  realm, 
for  he  felt  well  assured  that  Gawaine  would  not 
rest  till  he  had  brought  King  Arthur  against  him 
in  martial  array. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

THE  WAR  BETWEEN  ARTHUR  AND  LANCELOT. 

What  Lancelot  had  feared  came  quickly  to  pass. 
I'or  so  unrelenting  was  Gawaine's  enmity,  and  so 
strong  his  influence  over  the  king,  that  Arthur, 
at  his  persistent  instigation,  got  together  a  great 
army,  to  the  number  of  sixty  thousand,  and  had 
shipping  made  ready  to  carry  them  over  the  sea. 

Then  he  made  Sir  Mordred  chief  ruler  of  all 
England  during  his  absence,  and  put  Queen 
Guenever  under  his  care,  little  dreaming  of  what 
fatal  results  would  follow  this  unwise  choice. 

These  preparations  made,  Arthur  passed  the  sea 
with  his  host,  and  landed  in  Lancelot's  realm, 
where,  through  the  revengeful  spirit  of  Gawaine, 
they  burnt  and  wasted  all  that  they  overran. 

When  word  of  this  was  brought  to  Lancelot  and 
his  knights.  Sir  Bors  thus  broke  out  in  anger, — 

"  My  lord  Sir  Lancelot,  it  is  a  shame  to  let  them 
thus  destroy  this  fair  realm  of  France.  You  may 
well   be   assured   that,   however  long  you   forbear 


WAR  BETWEEN  ARTHUR  AND  LANCELOT.     315 

your  foes,  they  will  do  you  no  favor  if  you  fall 
into  their  hands." 

Then  said  Sir  Lionel,  who  was  wary  and  wise, 
"My  lord  Sir  Lancelot,  this  is  my  counsel.  Let 
us  keep  to  our  strong-walled  towns  till  the  invaders 
suffer  from  hunger  and  cold,  and  blow  upon  their 
nails  for  warmth.  Then  we  may  freshly  set  upon 
them,  and  shred  them  down  like  sheep  in  a  field." 

"  Such  a  course  would  disgrace  us  all,"  said  King 
Bagdemagus  to  Lancelot.  "  Your  over-courtesy  has 
caused  all  the  trouble  we  now  have.  If  we  let 
Gawaine  work  his  will,  he  will  bring  our  power 
to  naught,  while  we  hide  like  rabbits  in  our  holes." 

"  So  say  I,"  broke  in  Sir  Galihud.  "  There  are 
knights  here  who  come  of  kings'  blood,  and  that 
will  not  long  be  content  to  droop  behind  walls.  Give 
us  leave  to  meet  them  in  the  field,  and  we  shall 
deal  with  them  in  such  fashion  that  they  will  curse 
the  time  they  came  into  this  country." 

Then  spoke  seven  brethren  of  North  Wales,  men 
of  such  prowess  that  one  might  seek  through  seven 
lands  before  he  could  find  seven  such  knights, — 

"  Sir  Ijancelot,'"  they  said  together,  "  let  us  ride 
out  with  Sir  Galihud,  for  it  has  never  been  our 
wont  to  cower  in  towns  and  castles." 

^  My  fair  lords,"  replied  Lancelot  to  them  all, 

I  am  loath  to  ride  out  with  my  knights  and  shed 
Christian  blood.  And  my  lands,  after  all  the  wars 
they  have  endured,  are  too  bare  long  to  sustain 
this  invading  host.  It  is  the  part  of  wisdom,  there- 
fore, for  the  time  to  keep  to  our  walls,  and  mean- 
while I  will  send  a  messenger  to  King  Arthur  and 
offer  him  a  treaty  of  peace." 


316  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

Then  he  sent  a  damsel  to  the  king,  and  a  dwarf 
with  her,  with  a  message,  bidding  Arthur  to  quit 
making  war  upon  his  lands,  and  offering  him  fair 
terms  of  accommodation.  The  damsel  rode  to 
the  hostile  camp  on  a  palfry,  while  the  dwarf  ran 
by  her  side.  When  she  came  near  to  King  Arthur^s 
pavilion  she  alighted,  and  there  was  met  by  a  gen- 
tle knight.  Sir  Lucan  the  butler,  who  said, — 

"  Fair  damsel,  come  you  from  Sir  Lancelot  du 
Lake?'' 

"  Yes,  sir,''  she  replied,  "  I  am  come  hither  with 
a  message  from  him  to  my  lord  the  king.'' 

"  Alas,  that  it  should  be  needed !  "  said  Sir  Lucan. 
"  My  lord  Arthur  would  soon  be  in  accord  with 
Lancelot  but  for  Gawaine,  who  has  more  influence 
over  him  than  all  his  knights  besides,  and  will  not 
suffer  him  to  think  of  peace  and  friendship.  I 
pray  to  God,  damsel,  that  you  speed  well  in  your 
errand,  for  all  that  are  about  the  king,  except  Sir 
Gawaine,  wish  well  to  Lancelot  above  all  knights 
living." 

With  these  words  he  led  the  damsel  to  the  king^s 
pavilion.  There  Arthur,  who  had  been  advised 
of  her  coming,  sat  with  Gawaine  to  hear  her  mes- 
sage. When  she  had  told  her  errand  the  king  was 
so  moved  that  tears  ran  from  his  eyes,  and  ^11 
the  lords  were  ready  to  advise  him  to  make  peace 
with  Lancelot.  But  Gawaine,  who  sat  with  lower- 
ing brow,  now  broke  out  in  hot  speech, — 

"  Mv  lord,  mv  uncle,  what  will  vou  do?"   Will 

•  •  • 

you  turn   again   after  having  come  so   far?     All 
the  world  will  speak  villany  of  you." 

"I    do    not    deem    it    wise    to    refuse    his  fair 


WAR  BETWEEN  ARTHUR  AND  LANCELOT.     317 

proffers,"  said  the  king.  "  Yet  since  I  am  come  so 
far  on  this  journey,  I  leave  it  to  you  to  give  the 
damsel  her  answer." 

"  Then  tell  Sir  Lancelot,"  said  Gawaine  to  the 
damsel,  "that  he  wastes  his  labor  now  to  sue  to 
my  uncle.  If  he  wished  peace  he  should  have 
sought  it  sooner.  Now  it  is  too  late.  Tell  him, 
also,  that  I,  Sir  Gawaine,  promise  him,  by  the  faith 
I  owe  to  God  and  to  knighthood,  never  to  leave 
him  in  peace  till  he  have  slain  me  or  I  him." 

This  word  the  damsel  brought  back  to  Lancelot, 
where  he  stood  among  his  knights,  and  sad  of 
heart  he  was  to  hear  it. 

"  Why  do  you  grieve  ?  "  said  the  knights.  "  If 
war  thev  want,  let  them  have  it  to  their  fill.  Ijet 
us  meet  them  in  the  field." 

"  Never  before  was  I  so  loath  to  do  battle,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  I  would  rather  flee  from  King  Arthur 
than  figfet  him.  Be  ruled  by  me,  noble  sirs.  When 
I  must  defend  myself,  then  I  will;  but  haste  will 
make  fresh  sorrow." 

Then  the  knights  held  their  peace,  and  that 
night  took  their  rest.  But  in  the  morning,  when 
they  looked  abroad,  they  saw  a  hostile  host  around 
the  city  of  Benwick,  pressing  it  so  closely  that  lad- 
ders were  already  set  up  against  the  walls.  The 
defenders  of  the  town  flocked  in  haste  to  the  walls 
and  threw  down  the  ladders,  and  hot  strife  began. 

Forth  now  rode  Sir  Gawaine  on  a  strong  steed, 
and  with  a  great  spear  in  his  hand,  and  when  he 
came  before  the  chief  gate  he  called  out  loudly,. — 

"  Sir  Lancelot,  where  art  thou  ?  Or  what  proud 
knight  is  here  that  dare  break  a  spear  with  me?*' 


318  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

Hearing  this  challenge.  Sir  Bors  hastily  made 
ready,  and  rode  from  the  city  to  the  encounter. 
But  Gawaine  smote  him  from  his  horse,  and  would 
have  slain  him  had  he  not  been  rescued.  Then 
Lionel,  his  brother,  rode  out  to  revenge  him;  but 
he,  too,  was  sorely  wounded,  and  so  borne  into  the 
town. 

And  thus,  day  after  day,  came  Gawaine  with 
his  challenge,  and  not  a  day  passed  but  some 
knight  fell  before  his  spear.  And  for  half  a  year 
the  siege  continued,  and  there  was  much  slaughter 
on  both  sides. 

At  length  came  a  day  when  Gawaine  again 
appeared  before  the  gates,  armed  at  all  points, 
and  loudly  cried, — 

"Where  art  thou  now,  thou  false  traitor.  Sir 
Lancelot  ?  Why  hidest  thou  within  walls  and  holes 
like  a  coward  ?  Come  forth,  traitor,  that  I  may  re- 
venge on  thy  body  the  death  of  my  three  brothers  ?  " 

Then  said  Lancelot's  knights  to  their  leader, — 

"  Now,  Sir  Lancelot,  you  must  fight,  or  you  are 
shamed  forever.  It  is  time  for  vou  to  stir,  for  vou 
have  slept  over  long  and  we  suffered  over  much." 

"  Defend  myself  I  must,  since  he  charges  me 
with  treason,"  said  Lancelot.  "  His  words  cut 
deeply,  and  I  must  fight  or  be  held  recreant,"  and 
with  stern  countenance  he  bade  the  attendants  to 
saddle  his  strongest  horse  and  bring  his  arms  to 
the  gate  tower.  Then  from  this  tower  he  called 
to   the  king,   who  stood  below, — 

"  My  lord  Arthur,"  he  said,  "  sad  am  T,  for  your 
sake,  that  thus  yon  press  upon  me.  Had  I  been 
revengeful  I  might  have  met  you  in  open  field,  and 


WAR  BETWEEN  ARTHUR  AND  LANCELOT.     319 

there  made  your  boldest  knights  full  tame;  but 
I  have  forborne  you  half  a*  year,  and  given  you 
and  Gawaine  free  way.  It  is  much  against  my  will 
to  fight  with  any  of  your  blood,  but  since  he  ac- 
cuses me  of  treason  I  am  driven  to  it  like  a  beast 
brought  to  bay.^^ 

"If  you  dare  do  battle,^^  cried  Gawaine,  "leave 
your  babbling  and  come  out.  Ivothing  will  give 
deeper  joy  to  my  heart,  for  I  have  waited  long 
for  this  hour." 

At  this  Lancelot  mounted  and  rode  out,  and  a 
host  of  knights  followed  him  from  the  city,  while 
from  the  king^s  army  a  throng  of  knights  pressed 
to  the  front.  But  covenant  was  made  that  none 
should  come  near  the  two  warriors  till  one  was 
dead  or  had  yielded,  and  the  knights  drew  back, 
leaving  a  broad  open  space  for  the  combatants. 

Gawaine  and  Lancelot  now  rode  far  apart,  and 
wheeled  their  horses  till  they  faced  each  other. 
Thus  they  stood  in  grim  silence  and  energy  till  the 
signal  for  the  onset  was  given,  when,  like  iron 
statues  come  to  life,  they  plunged  their  spurs  in 
the  flanks  of  their  chargers  and  dashed  at  furious 
speed  across  the  plain.  A  minute  passed,  and  they 
met  in  the  middle  with  a  shock  like  thunder,  but 
the  knights  were  so  strong  and  their  spears  so 
great,  that  the  horses  could  not  endure  the  buffets, 
and  fell  to  the  earth. 

In  a  moment  both  knights  had  leaped  clear  of 
their  saddles,  drawn  their  swords,  and  brought 
their  shields  before  them.  And  now  began  a  fierce 
and  terrible  affray,  for  they  stood  and  hewed  at 
each  other  with  might  and  main,  till  blood  burst 


320  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

in  many  places  through  the  joints  of  their  armor. 

But  Gawaine  had  a  gift  that  a  holy  man  had 
given  him,  that  every  day  in  the  year,  from  nine 
o^clock  till  noon,  his  strength  should  increase  till 
it  became  threefold.  And  he  took  good  care  to  fight 
all  his  battles  during  these  hours,  whereby  he  gained 
great  honor. 

None  knew  of  this  gift  but  King  Arthur,  and 
as  Lancelot  felt  the  strength  of  his  antagonist 
constantly  increasing,  he  wondered  greatly,  and 
began  to  fear  that  he  would  be  overcome.  It 
seemed  to  him  that  he  had  a  fiend,  and  no  earthly 
man,  before  him,  and  for  three  hours  he  traced  and 
traversed,  and  covered  himself  with  his  shield, 
scarcely  able  to  stand  against  the  brunt  of  Gawaine's 
mighty  blows.  At  this  all  men  marvelled,  for  never 
before  had  they  beheld  Lancelot  so  sorely  driven 
to  defence. 

But  when  the  hour  of  noon  had  passed,  the  magic 
might  of  Gawaine  suddenly  left  him,  and  he  had 
now  only  his  own  strength.  This  Lancelot  felt, 
and  he  drew  himself  up  and  pressed  on  his  foe, 
saying, — 

"  You  have  had  your  day,  Gawaine ;  now  it  is 
my  turn.  Defend  yourself,  for  I  have  many  a 
grievous  buffet  to  repay .^^ 

Then  he  redou})led  his  strokes,  and  at  length 
gave  Gawaine  such  a  blow  on  the  helmet  that  he 
fell  to  the  earth.     Lancelot  now  withdrew  a  step. 

"  Why  do  you  withdraw  ?  ^'  cried  Gawaine,  bit- 
terly. "  Turn,  thou  traitor,  and  slay  me ;  for  if  I 
recover  you  shall  fight  with  me  again." 

"  It  is  not  mv  wav.   Sir   Gawaine,  to  strike   a 


WAR  BETWEEN  ARTHUR  AND  LANCELOT.     321 

fallen  knight.     When  you  want  to  fight  again  you 
shall  not  find  me  laeking.^^ 

Then  he  turned  and  went  with  his  knights  into 
the  city,  while  Gawaine  was  borne  from  the  field 
to  one  of  the  king's  pavilions,  where  leeches  were 
brought  to  attend  him. 

"  Alas !  ^^  said  the  king,  "  that  ever  this  unhappy 
war  began,  for  Sir  Lancelot  ever  forbeareth  me, 
and  my  kin  also,  and  that  is  well  seen  in  his  spar- 
ing my  nephew  Gawaine  this  day.^' 

Then  Arthur  fell  sick  from  sorrow  for  the  hurt 
of  his  nephew  and  regret  for  the  war.  The  siege 
was  kept  up,  but  with  little  energy,  and  both  sides 
rested  from  their  toils. 

Three  weeks  passed  before  Gawaine  regained  his 
strength;  but  as  soon  as  he  was  able  to  ride  he 
armed  again,  mounted  his  horse,  and  rode  to  the 
gate  of  Benwick,  where  he  loudly  repeated  his  chal- 
lenge to  Lancelot  as  a  traitor  and  recreant  knight. 

"  You  got  the  best  of  me  by  mischance  at  our 
last  battle,^'  he  said,  "but  if  you  dare  come  into 
the  field  this  day  I  will  make  amends,  and  lay  you 
as  low  as  you  laid  me.^^ 

"Defend  me  from  such  a  fate,''  said  Lancelot, 
"  for  if  you  should  get  me  into  such  a  strait  my 
days  were  done.  But  since  you  in  this  unknightly 
fashion  charge  me  with  treason,  I  warrant  you  shall 
have  both  hands  full  before  you  gain  your  end." 

Then  Lancelot  armed  and  rode  out,  and  the  bat- 
tle began  as  before,  with  a  circle  of  armed 'knights 
surrounding.  But  in  this  onset  Gawaine's  spear 
broke  into  a  hundred  pieces  in  his  hand,  while 
Lancelot  struck   him   with   such  might  that  his 

11-21 


322  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

horse's  feet  were  raised,  and  horse  and  rider  top- 
pled to  the  earth. 

"  Alight,  traitor  knight ! "  cried  Gawaine,  draw- 
ing his  sword.  "  If  a  horse  has  failed  me,  think 
not  that  a  king  and  queen's  son  shall  fail  thee." 

Then  Ijancelot  sprang  to  the  ground  and  the 
battle  wont  on  as  before,  Gawaine's  strength  in- 
creasing hour  by  hour.  But  Lancelot,  feeling  this, 
warily  kept  his  strength  and  his  wind,  keeping 
under  cover  of  his  shield,  and  tracing  ajid  travers- 
ing back  and  forth,  to  break  the  strength  and  cour- 
age of  his  foe. 

As  for  Gawaine,  he  put  forth  all  his  might  and 
power  to  destroy  Lancelot,  and  for  three  hours 
pressed  him  so  fiercely  that  he  could  barely  defend 
himself.  But  when  noon  passed,  and  Lancelot  felt 
Gawaine's  strength  again   decline,  he  said, — 

"  I  have  proved  you  twice,  Sir  Gawaine.  By 
this  magic  trick  of  your  strength  increasing  you 
have  deceived  many  a  valiant  knight.  You  have 
done  your  worst;  now  you  shall  see  of  what  metal 
I  am  made." 

Then  he  attacked  him  fiercely,  and  Gawaine 
defended  himself  with  all  his  power;  but  at  length 
there  fell  such  a  heavy  blow  on  his  helmet  and  on 
the  old  wound,  that  he  sank  to  the  earth  in  a 
swoon.  When  he  came  to  himself  again,  he  struck 
feebly  at  Lancelot  as  he  lay,  and  cried  spitefully, — 
.  "  Thou  false  traitor,  I  am  not  yet  slain.  Come 
near  me,  and  do  this  battle  to  the  uttermost." 

"  I  shall  do  no  more  than  I  have  done,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  When  T  see  you  on  your  feet  again  T 
shall  stand  ready,  to  fight  you  to  the  bitter  end. 


THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPER.  323 

But  to  smite  a  wounded  and  prostrate  manl — God 
defend  me  from  such  a  shame." 

And  he  turned  and  went  towards  the  city,  while 
Gawaine  with  spiteful  malice  called  him  traitor, 
and  vowed  he  would  never  cease  to  fight  with  him 
till  oae.  of  them  was  dead. 

A  month  now  passed  away,  during  which  Ga- 
waine lay  sick  of  his  wound.  As  he  slowly  re- 
covered, the  old  battle-hunger  for  Lancelot's  blood 
returned  to  his  heart,  and  he  impatiently  awaited 
the  day  when  he  could  again  take  the  field.  But 
before  this  day  arrived,  news  came  from  England 
that  put  a  sudden  end  to  the  war;  tidings  of  such 
threatening  aspect  that  King  Arthur  was  forced 
to  return  in  all  haste  to  his  own  realm. 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPER. 

Disastrous^  indeed,  were  the  news  from  Eng- 
land. King  Arthur  had  made  the  fatal  mistake 
of  placiiig  a  villain  and  dastard  in  charge  of  his 
realm,  for  Mordred  had  taken  advantage  of  his 
absence  to  turn  traitor,  and  seek  to  seize  the  crown 
and  sceptre  of  England  as  his  own. 

News  moved  but  slowlv  from  over  seas  in  those 
days,  and  Mordred,  with  treasonable  craft,  had 
letters  written  as  though  they  came  from  abroad. 


324  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

which  said  that  King  Arthur  had  been  slain  in 
battle  with  Sir  Lancelot. 

Having  spread  this  lie  far  and  wide,  he  called 
the  lords  together  to  London  in  parliament,  and 
so  managed  that  they  voted  him  king.  Then  he 
was  crowned  at  Canterbury,  and  held  a  feast  for 
fifteen  days,  after  which  he  went  to  Winchester, 
where  Guenever  was,  and  publicly  declared  that 
he  would  wed  his  uncle's  widow. 

When  word  of  this  came  to  Guenever  she  grew 
heavy  at  heart,  for  she  hated  the  traitor  to  her 
soul's  depth.  But  she  was  in  his  power,  and  was 
forced  to  hide  her  secret  hate.  She  therefore 
seemed  to  consent  to  his  will,  and  desired  permis- 
sion to  go  to  London,  where  she  might  buy  all 
things  that  were  necessary  for  the  wedding.  She 
spoke  so  fairly  that  he  trusted  her,  and  gave  her 
leave  to  make  the  journey. 

But  no  sooner  had  she  reached  London  than  she 
took  possession  of  the  Tower,  and  with  all  haste 
supplied  it  with  provisions  and  garrisoned  it  with 
men,  and  so  held  it  as  a  fortress,  many  knights 
holding  with  her  against  the  usurper. 

Mordred  soon  learned  that  he  had  been  beguiled 
by  the  queen,  and,  moved  to  fury,  he  hastened 
to  London,  where  he  besieged  the  Tower,  assail- 
ing it  vigorously  with  great  engines  of  war.  But 
Guenever  held  out  stoutly  against  him,  and  neither 
by  fair  speech  nor  foul  could  he  induce  her  to 
trust  herself  into  his  hands  again. 

There  now  came  to  Mordred  the  bishop  of  Can- 
terbury, who  said, — 

"  Sir,  what  would  you  do  ?    Would  you  displease 


THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPER.  325 

God  and  shame  knighthood  by  wedding  the  wife 
of  your  uncle,  who  has  been  to  you  as  a  father? 
Cease  this  vile  purpose,  I  command  you,  or  I  shall 
curse  you  with  book,  and  bell,  and  candle,  and 
bring  upon  your  head  the  vengeance  of  the  church.'^ 

"Do  your  worst,  sir  priest,''  said  Mordred,  an- 
grily.    "  I  defy  you." 

"  I  shall  do  what  I  ought ;  be  sure  of  that.  You 
noise  about  that  the  lord  Arthur  is  slain,  no  word 
of  which  I  believe.  You  seek  with  a  lie  to  make 
mischief  in  this  land.  Beware,  lest  your  vile  work 
recoil  upon  yourself." 

"  Peace,  thou  false  priest,"  cried  Mordred. 
"  Chafe  me  no  more,  or  I  shall  order  that  thy  head 
be  stricken  off." 

Finding  that  words  were  useless,  the  hishop 
departed,  and,  as  he  had  threatened,  laid  the  curse 
of  the  church  on  Mordred.  Roused  to  rage  by 
this,  the  usurper  sought  him  to  slay  him,  and  he 
fled  in  all  haste  to  Glastonbury,  where  he  took 
refuge  as  a  hermit  in  a  chapel.  But  well  he  knew 
that  war  was  at  hand,  and  that  the  rightful  king 
would  soon  strike  for  the  throne. 

Despite  the  anathema  of  the  church,  Mordred 
continued  his  efforts  to  get  Guenever  into  his 
power;  but  she  held  firmly  to  the  Tower,  repelling 
all  his  assaults,  and  declaring  openly  that  she  would 
rather  kill  herself  than  marrv  such  a  wretch.  Soon 
afterwards  he  was  forced  to  raise  the  siege,  for  word 
came  to  him  by  secret  messengers  that  Arthur  had 
heard  of  his  treason,  and  was  coming  home  with 
his  whole  host  to  revenge  himself  on  the  usurper 
of  his  crown. 


326  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

When  Mordred  heard  this  he  made  strenuous 
efforts  to  gather  a  large  army,  and  many  lords 
joined  him  with  their  people,  saying  that  with 
Arthur  there  had  been  nothing  but  war  and  strife, 
but  that  with  Mordred  they  hoped  for  peace  and 
a  quiet  life.  Thus  was  evil  said  of  the  good  King 
Arthur  when  he  was  away  from  the  land,  and  that 
by  many  who  owed  to  him  their  honors  and  es- 
tates. Mordred  was  thus  quickly  able  to  draw  with 
a  great  host  to  Dover,  where  he  had  heard  that 
Arthur  would  land,  for  he  hoped  to  defeat  and  slay 
him  before  he  could  get  firm  footing  on  England's 
soil. 

Not  long  had  he  been  there  when  a  great  fleet 
of  ships,  galleys,  and  carracks  appeared  upon  the 
sea,  bearing  the  king's  army  back  to  their  native 
realm.  On  the  beach  stood  Mordred's  host,  drawn 
up  to  prevent  the  landing  of  the  king's  army.  As 
the  boats  came  to  the  shore,  laden  with  noble  men- 
of-arms,  a  fierce  struggle  ensued,  in  which  many 
a  knight  was  slain,  while  full  many  a  bold  baron 
was  laid  low  on  both  sides.  But  so  courageous 
was  the  king,  and  so  fierce  the  onset  of  his  knights, 
that  the  opposing  host  could  not  hinder  the  land- 
ing of  his  army.  And  when  they  had  gained  a 
footing  on  the  land,  they  set  on  Mordred  with  such 
fury  that  he  and  all  his  host  were  driven  back  and 
forced  to  fly,  leaving  Arthur  master  of  the  field. 

After  the  battle,  the  king  ordered  that  the  dead 
should  be  buried  and  the  wounded  cared  for.  Among 
the  latter  Sir  Gawaine  was  found  lying  in  a  great 
boat,  where  he  had  been  felled  with  a  deadly  wound 
in  the  bitter  strife.    On  hearing  this  direful  news. 


THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPER.  327 

Arthur  hastened  to  him  and  took  him  in  his  arms, 
with  great  show  of  grief  and  pain. 

"  In  you  and  in  Lancelot  I  had  my  highest  joy,-' 
moaned  the  king.  "  Now  I  have  lost  you  both,  and 
all  my  earthly  happiness  is  gone.'' 

"My  death  is  at  hand,"  said  Gawaine,  "and  I 
owe  it  all  to  my  own  hate  and  bitterness  for  I  am 
smitten  on  the  old  wound  that  Lancelot  gave  me, 
and  feel  that  I  must  die.  Had  he  but  been  with 
you  this  unhappy  war  would  never  have  begun. 
.Of  all  this  I  am  the  cause,  and  have  but  received 
my  deserts.  Therefore  I  pray  you,  dear  uncle,  let 
me  have  paper,  pen,  and  ink,  that  I  may  write  to 
Sir  Lancelot  with  my  own  hand." 

These  were  brought  him,  and  Gawaine  wrote  a 
moving  and  tender  letter  to  Lancelot,  blaming 
himself  severelv  for  his  hardness  of  heart. 

In  this  wise  it  ran, — 

"  Unto  Sir  Lancelot,  flower  of  all  noble  knights, 
I,  Sir  Gawaine,  son  of  King  Ix)t  of  Orkney,  and 
sister's  son  unto  the  noble  King  Arthur,  send 
greeting;  and  also  these  sad  tidings,  that  on  the 
tenth  day  of  May  I  was  smitten  on  the  old  wound 
which  you  gave  me  at  Benwick,  and  thus  through 
this  wound  have  I  come  to  my  death.  And  I 
would  have  all  the  world  know  that  I,  Sir  Ga- 
waine, Knight  of  the  Round  Table,  have  met  with 
death  not  through  your  ill-will,  but  from  my  own 
seeking;  therefore  I  beseech  you  to  come  in  all 
haste  to  this  realm,  to  which  you  have  heretofore 
done  such  honor.  I  earnestly  pray  you,  Sir  Lance- 
lot, for  all  the  love  that  ever  was  betwixt  us,  niakfe 
no  tarrying,  but  come  over  the  sea  in  all  haste,  that 


328  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

thou  mayest  with  thy  noble  knights  rescue  that 
royal  king  who  made  thee  knight,  for  he  is  hard 
bested  with  a  false  traitor,  my  own  half-brother. 
Sir  Mordred,  who  has  had  himself  crowned  king, 
and  would  have  wedded  Queen  Guenever  had  she 
not  taken  refuge  in  the  Tower  of  London.  We 
put  him  to  flight  on  our  landing,  on  the  tenth  day  of 
May,  but  he  still  holds  against  us  with  a  great  host. 
Therefore,  I  pray  you  to  come,  for  I  am  within 
two  hours  of  my  death;  and  I  beg  that  you  will 
visit  my  tomb,  and  pray  some  prayer,  more  or  less, 
for  my  soul.^^ 

Wheji  Sir  Gawaine  had  finished  this  letter  he 
wept  bitter  tears  of  sorrow  and  remorse,  and  Ar- 
thur wept  beside  him  till  they  both  swooned,  the 
one  from  grief,  the  other  from  pain.  When  they 
recovered,  the  king  had  the  rites  of  the  church 
administered  to  the  dying  knight,  who  then  prayed 
him  to  send  in  haste  for  Lancelot,  and  to  cherish 
him  above  all  other  knights,  as  his  best  friend 
and  ally. 

Afterwards,  at  the  hour  of  noon,  Gawaine  yielded 
up  his  spirit.  And  the  king  had  him  interred  in 
Dover  castle,  where  men  to  this  day  may  see  his 
skull,  with  the  wound  thereon  that  Lancelot  gave 
him  in  battle. 

Word  was  now  brought  to  King  Arthur  that 
Mordred  had  pitched  a  new  camp  on  Barham  Down. 
Thither  in  all  haste  he  led  his  army,  and  there  a 
second  great  battle  was  fought,  with  much  loss  on 
both  sides.  But  at  the  end  Arthur's  party  stood 
best,  and  Mordred  fled,  with  all  his  host,  to  Canter- 
bury. 


THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPEK.  329 

This  second  victory  changed  the  feeling  of  the 
country,  and  many  people  who  had  held  aloof 
joined  the  king's  army,  saying  that  Mordred  was 
a  traitor  and  usurper.  When  the  dead  had  been 
buried  and  the  wounded  cared  for,  Arthur  marched 
with  his  host  to  the  sea-shore,  westward  towards 
Salisbury.  Here  a  challenge  passed  between  him 
and  Mordred,  in  which  they  agreed  to  meet  on  a 
down  beside  Salisbury,  on  the  day  after  Trinity 
Sunday,  and  there  fight  out  their  quarrel. 

Mordred  now  made  haste  to  recruit  his  army, 
raising  many  men  about  London,  for  the  people 
of  that  section  of  the  country  held  largely  with 
him,  ^nd  particularly  those  who  were  friendly  to 
Lancelot.  When  the  time  fixed  came  near,  the 
two  armies  drew  together  and  camped  on  Salis- 
bury Do\^Ti. 

And  so  the  days  passed  till  came  the  night  of 
Trinity  Sunday,  when  the  king  dreamed  a  strange 
dream,  for  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  sat  in  a  chair 
that  was  fastened  to  a  wheel,  and  was  covered 
with  the  richest  cloth  of  gold  that  could  be  made. 
But  far  beneath  him  he  beheld  a  hideous  black 
pool,  in  which  were  all  manner  of  serpents,  and 
vile  worms,  foul  and  horrible.  Suddenly  the  wheel 
seemed  to  turn,  and  he  fell  among  the  serpents, 
which  seized  upon  his  limbs. 

Awakening  in  fright,  he  loudly  cried,  "Help!^' 
and  knights  and  squires  came  crowding  in  alarm 
into  his  chamber;  but  he  was  so  amazed  that  he 
knew  not  where  he  was  nor  what  he  said. 

Then  he  fell  again  into  a  half  slumber,  in  which 
Gawaine  seemed  to  come  to  him  attended  by  a 
number  of  fair  ladies. 


330  THE  .HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

'    "  Fair  nephew/'  asked  the  king,  "  who  are  these 
ladies  ? '' 

'^  They  are  those  for  whom  I  did  battle  during 
my  life,"  answered  Gawaine.  "  God  has  sent  them 
and  me  to  warn  you  of  your  coming  death,  for  if 
you  fight  with  Mordred  to-morrow  as  you  have 
agreed,  you  will  both  be  slain,  and  most  of  your 
people.  Therefore  I  am  here  to  warn  you  not 
to  fight  to-morrow,  but  to  treat  with  the  traitor, 
and  make  him  large  and  fair  promises,  so  as  to  gain 
a  month's  delay.  Within  that  time  Lancelot  and 
his  knights  will  come,  and  Mordred  the  usurper  can- 
not hold  against  you  both.'' 

This  said,  Gawaine  and  the  ladies  vanished. 
Then  Arthur  waked,  and  sent  messengers  in  haste 
to  bring  his  lords  and  bishops  to  council.  When 
they  had  come  he  told  them  his  dream,  and  they 
counselled  him  by  all  means  to  be  guided  by  it. 
Lucan  the  butler,  and  his  brother  Sir  Bevidere, 
with  two  bishops,  were  therefore  sent  to  treat  with 
Mordred,  and  make  him  large  promises  for  a  month's 
truce. 

The  commissioners  sought  Mordred's  camp  and 
held  a  long  conference  with  him.  At  the  end  he 
agreed  to  meet  King  Arthur  on  the  plain  between 
.the  hosts,  each  to  bring  but  fourteen  persons  with 
him,  and  there  consult  on  the  treatv. 

"I  am  glad  that  this  is  accomplished,"  said  the 
king,  when  word  of  the  compact  was  brought  him. 

But  when  he  was  ready  to  start  for  the  place 
of  conference,  with  the  fourteen  chosen  men,  he 
said  to  his  knights, — 

Be  wary  and  watchful,  for  I  trust  not  MoiS 


66 


THE  STING  OP  THE  VIPER.  331 

dred.  If  you  see  any  sword  drawn,  come  fiercely 
forward,  and  slay  the  villain  and  his  guard." 

Mordred  gave  the  same  warning  to  his  lords, 
for  he  had  equal  mistrust  of  Arthur,  whom  he 
feared  and  doubted. 

The  two  leaders,  with  their  chosen  followers, 
now  advanced  and  met  between  the  hosts.  But 
by  a  fatal  chance,  as  the  king  and  his  opponent 
were  in  consultation,  an  adder  came  from  a  heath 
bush  and  stung  a  knight  on  the  foot.  Feeling  the 
wound  he  drew  his  sword  in  thoughtless  haste  to 
kill  the  venomous  serpent.  But  the  instant  the 
hosts  on  both  sides  saw  that  sword  flash  in  the  air 
all  was  uproar  and  tumult.  On  both  sides  trum- 
pets and  horns  were  blown,  harness  rattled  and 
clanked,  and  the  flash  of  spear-heads  and  sword- 
blades  gleamed  in  the  sunlight,  while  like  two 
mighty  waves  of  war  the  great  hosts  broke  from 
their  stations  and  rushed  together  across  the  plain. 

Then  Arthur  sprang  to  his  horse,  exclaiming, 
"Alas!  this  unhappy  day!"  and  rode  to  his  party; 
and  Mordred  did  likewise. 

No  hand  nor  voice  could  stay  the  advancing  hosts, 
and  in  a  moment  there  began  the  most  doleful  bat- 
tle ever  seen  in  Christian  land.  For  there  was  rush- 
ing and  riding,  foining  and  striking,  and  deadly 
clamor,  and  fearful  strife.  Many  a  grim  word  was 
there  spoken,  and  many  a  deadly  stroke  dealt.  Many 
times  King  Arthur  rode  through  Mordred's  host, 
and  knightly  were  the  deeds  of  his  hands.  And 
Mordred  fought  with  knightly  valor  and  zeal. 

Thus  went  on  the  deadly  fray  all  day  long, 
without  pause  or  stint,  till  noble  knights  lay  like 


332  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINT. 

fallen  leaves  upon  the  bloody  groond.  And  wben 
nightfall  was  at  hand  thej  still  fought  with  des- 
perate valor,  though  by  that  time  full  a  hundred 
thousand  men  lay  dead  upon  the  down. 

Then  the  heart  of  Arthur  grew  full  of  warlike 
fury^  to  see  so  many  of  his  people  slain.  And 
when  the  sun  was  near  its  setting,  he  leaned  upon 
his  crimson  sword,  and  looked  about  him  with 
eyes  that  seemed  to  weep  blood.  For  of  all  hi? 
mighty  host  of  knights  but  two  remained  alive. 
Sir  Lucan  the  butler,  and  his  brother  Sir  Bevi- 
dere ;  and  both  of  these  were  sorely  wounded. 

"  God's  mercy !  '^  cried  the  king,  "  where  are  all 
my  noble  knights?  Alas!  that  I  have  lived  to  see 
this  doleful  day!  Now,  indeed,  &m  I  come  to  my 
end.  But  would  to  God  I  knew  where  to  find  tiiat 
traitor,  Mordred,  who  has  caused  all  this  mischief/' 

As  he  spoke,  his  eyes  fell  on  Mordred,  who  stood 
leaning  upon  his  sword  amid  a  great  heap  of  slain, 
for  his  host  had  been  slaughtered  to  a  man. 

"  Give  me  my  spear/'  cried  Arthur,  wrathfully, 
to  Sir  Lucan.  ^^  Yonder  stands  the  traitor  who  has 
wrought  this  dire  woe." 

"  Tict  him  be,"  said  Lucan.  ^^  He  is  unhappy 
enough.  Eemember,  my  good  lord,  your  last  night's 
dream,  and  what  the  spirit  of  Sir  Gawaine  told 
you.  For  God's  sake  make  an  end  of  this  fray. 
Blessed  be  God,  we  have  won  the  field;  for  hero 
are  three  of  us  alive,  while  Mordred  stands  alone 
among  his  dead.  Tf  you  leave  off  now,  the  wicked 
day  of  destiny  will  pass  and  life  remain  to  you. 
Your  time  for  revenge  will  come  hereafter." 

*^  Betide  me  life,  betide  me  death,"  cried  the  king, 


THE  STING  OF  THE  VIPER.  333 

*"  this  fray  must  end  here.  Now  that  I  see  him 
yonder  alone,  he  shall  never  escape  my  hands. 
One  or  both  of  us  shall  die." 

"  Then  God  speed  the  gust  cause/'  said  Bevidere. 

With  no  word  more  Arthur  took  his  spear  in 
both  hands,  and  ran  furiously  at  Mordred,  crying, — 

"  Traitor,  now  has  thy  day  of  death  come ! '' 

When  Mordred  heard  him,  he  raised  his  drip- 
ping sword  and  ran  to  meet  the  king.  Thus  they 
met  in  mid-iSeld,  and  King  Arthur  smote  Mordred 
under  the  shield,  the  spear  piercing  his  body  more 
than  a  fathom. 

Mordred  felt  that  he  had  his  death-wound,  but 
with  a  last  impulse  of  fury  in  his  felon  soul  he 
thrust  himself,  with  all  his  strength,  up  to  the  bur 
of  King  Arthur's  spear.  Then  wielding  his  sword 
with  both  hands,  he  struck  the  king  so  dread  a  blow 
on  the  side  of  the  head  that  the  trenchant  blade 
cut  through  the  helmet  and  deep  into  the  skull. 

With  this  last  and  fatal  stroke  Mordred  fell  stark 
dead  to  the  ground.  And  Arthur  sank  in  a  swoon 
to  the  earth,  where  he  lay  like  one  dead. 

Thus  sadly  and  direfully  ended  that  dreadful 
war,  with  which  came  to  a  close  the  flower  of  the 
days  of  chivalry,  and  the  glorious  and  never-to- 
be  equalled  fellowship  of  the  Bound  Table,  with 
all  the  mighty  deeds  of  prowess  and  marvels  of 
adventure  that  to  it  belonged.  For  of  those  noble 
knights,  except  Sir  Lancelot  and  his  kindred,  only 
two  lived.  Sir  Lucan  the  butler,  and  Sir  Bevidere 
his  brother,  and  of  these  two  Sir  Lucan  was  wounded 
unto  death;  and  with  them  the  illustrious  King 
Arthur,  whose  chivalrous  soul  had  so  long  sustained 


334  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

this  noble  order  of  knighthood,  lay  bleeding  pite- 
ously  upon  that  direful  field  of  blood. 

Sir  Lucan  and  Bevidere,  with  bitter  tears  of  sor- 
row, lifted  their  helpless  king  between  them,  and 
with  great  labor  led  him  from  that  place  of  slaugh- 
ter till  they  reached  a  small  chapel  near  the  sea- 
shore. Here,  as  the  night  drew  on,  the  sound  of 
many  voices  came  to  them,  as  if  the  dead  had  risen 
and  were  astir  on  the  blood-stained  field. 

"  What  noise  is  this.  Sir  Lucan  ?^'  said  the  king. 
"  Go,  gentle  friend,  and  tell  me  what  it  means.^^ 

Lucan  went,  and  by  the  moonlight  saw  a  throng 
of  pillagers,  who  robbed  the  dead  bodies  of  money 
and  jewels,  killing  for  their  riches  those  knights 
who  were  not  quite  dead.  When  he  brought  this 
news  back  to  Arthur,  the  king's  sad  heart  came 
near  to  breaking. 

"Alas!  Lancelot,''  he  said,  '^how  have  I  missed 
you  this  day.  Alas!  that  I  ever  turned  against 
you,  for  had  you  been  here  this  fatal  end  could 
never  have  been,  nor  those  noble  warriors  left  to 
be  the  prey  of  the  wolves  and  jackals  of  the  bat- 
tle-field. Sorely  have  I  erred  and  sadly  have  I  been 
repaid  for  my  error.  But  now,  alas,  it  is  too  late 
for  regret  or  amendment,  for  the  fellowship  of 
the  Round  Table  is  at  an  end,  and  Arthur  the  king 
shall  reign  no  more.'' 


THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR.  335 


CHAPTER  VI. 

THE   PASSING  OF   ARTHUR. 

When  morning  dawned,  after  that  day  of  fate, 
Lucan  and  Bevidere  took  up  the  king  between 
them,  and  sought  to  bear  him  to  the  sea-shore,  as 
he  bade  them  do.  But  in  the  lifting  the  king 
swooned,  and  Lucan  fell  prostrate,  the  blood  gush- 
ing anew  from  his  wound. 

Arthur  lay  long  like  one  dead,  and  when  he 
came  to  himself  again  he  saw  Lucan  lifeless  at 
his  feet,  with  foam  upon  his  lips,  and  the  ground 
around  him  deeply  stained  with  his  blood. 

Alas!  this  is  a  heavy  sight  to  see,"  he  said. 

He  sought  to  help  me  when  he  stood  most  in 
need  of  help.  He  would  not  complain  though  his 
heart  broke,  and  has  given  his  life  for  mine.  May 
Jesus  have  mercy  on  his  soul." 

Bevidere  stood  beside  him,  weeping  bitterly  for 
the  death  of  his  brother. 

" Weep  and  mourn  no  more,"  said  the  king.  "It 
will  not  now  avail.  Could  I  live,  the  death  of  Sir 
Lucan  would  grieve  me  evermore.  But  my  time 
goeth  fast,  and  there  is  that  to  do  for  which  but 
few  moments  remain." 

Then  he  closed  his  eyes  for  a  time,  like  one  who 
sees  visions ;  and  when  he  looked  again  there  was 
that  in  his  face  which  Bevidere  could  not  fathom 
and  his  eyes  were  deep  with  meaning  unrevealed. 

"Now,  my  lord  Bevidere,"  said  the  king,  "the 
end  is  at  hand.     Take  thou  my  good  sword  Ex- 


336  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

calibur,  and  go  with  it  to  yonder  water-side.  When 
thou  comest  there^  I  charge  thee  throw  it  as  far  as 
thou  canst  into  the  water;  then  come  again  and 
tell  me  what  thing  thou  seest.^' 

"  Trust  me,  my  lord  and  king,  your  command 
shall  be  obeyed,"  said  Bevidere. 

So  he  took  the  sword  and  departed  to  ihe  water- 
side. But  as  his  eyes  fell  upon  the  noble  weapcm, 
whose  pommel  and  haft  were  all  of  precious  stones, 
a  feeling  of  greed  came  upon  him  and  he  said  to 
himself, — 

'^If  I  throw  this  rich  sword  into  tiie  water,  no 
good  can  come  of  it,  but  only  harm  and  loss.  Had 
I  not  better  keep  it  for  myself?" 

Moved  by  this  thought,  he  hid  Excalibur  under 
a  tree,  and  returned  to  the  king,  whom  he  told  that 
he  had  thrown  the  sword  into  the  water. 

"What  saw  you  there?"  asked  the  king. 

"  Sir,  I  saw  nothing  but  the  rippling  waves.'* 

"  Then  you  speak  untruly,"  said  the  king.  "  You 
have  not  thrown  the  sword  as  I  bade  you.  Go  again, 
and  obey  my  command,  as  you  are  to  me  dear  alid 
true.    Spare  not,  but  throw  it  in  afar." 

Bevidere   thereupon   went   again,   and  took  the 
sword  in  his  hand.    But  the  rich  jewels  so  glittered 
in  the  sun  that  his  greed  came  back  more  strongly 
than  before,  and  he  deemerl  it  a  sin  to  throw  into 
the  sea  that  noble  blade.    So  he  hid  the  sword  again, 
and  returned  to  the  king  with  his  former  tale. 
WTiat  sawest  thou  there  ?  "  asked  the  king. 
Sir,  I  saw  nothing  but  the  waves  that  brc^e  on 
the  beach,  and  heard  only  the  roar  of  the  surf.^ 
Ah,  traitor !  false  and  untrue  art  thou  I "  cried 


(£ 


THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR.  337 

the  king.  "Thou  hast  betrayed  me  twice.  Who 
would  have  thought  that  thou,  whom  I  held  dear, 
and  who  art  named  a  noble  knight,  would  betray 
his  king  for  the  jewels  of  a  sword  ?  Go  again,  for 
thy  long  delay  puts  me  in  a  great  jeopardy  of  my 
life.  If  now  you  do  not  as  I  have  bidden,  beware 
of  n^e  hereafter,  for  dead  or  alive  I  will  have  re- 
venge upon  you.  Would  you.  Sir  Bevidere,  for  a 
shining  blade,  bring  death  and  ruin  to  your  king?  " 

Then  Bevidere,  heart-full  of  shame,  hastened 
away,  and  took  the  sword,  turning  his  eyes  man- 
fully away  from  its  jewelled  hilt.  Binding  the 
girdle  around  it,  with  all  the  might  of  his  arm  he 
hurled  the  blade  far  out  over  the  w^ves. 

Then  came  a  marvel.  For  as  he  followed  the 
sword  with  his  eyes,  he  saw  a  hand  and  arm  rise 
above  the  waves  to  meet  the  blade.  The  hand 
caught  it  by  the  hilt,  and  brandished  it  thrice  in 
the  air,  and  then  vanished  with  it  into  the  water. 

Bevidere,  much  wondering,  hurried  back  to  the 
king,  and  told  him  what  he  had  seen. 

"Now,  Sir  Bevidere,  you  have  done  as  I  bade 
you,"  said  Arthur.  "  But  much  precious  time  have 
you  lost.  Help  me  hence,  in  God's  name,  for  I 
fear  that  I  have  tarried  over-long/^ 

Then  Bevidere  took  the  king  on  his  back  and 
bore  him  to  the  water-side,  and  lo!  there  he  saw 
another  strange  thing. 

For  close  by  the  shore  lay  a  little  barge,  which 
he  had  not  seen  before,  and  in  it  sat  many  fair 
ladies,  among  whom  were  three  queens,  who  wore 
black  hoods,  and  wept  with  bitter  sorrow  when 
they  saw  King  Arthur. 

11-22 


338  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

"  Now  help  me  into  the  barge,"  said  the  king. 

This  Sir  Bevidere  did  as  gently  as  he  could. 
And  the  three  queens  received  the  dying  monarch 
with  deep  mourning,  and  had  him  laid  between 
them,  with  his  head  on  the  lap  of  her  who  sat  in 
the  centre. 

"  Alas !  dear  brother,  why  have  you  tamed  so 
long  from  me  ?  "  said  this  queen.  "  Much  harm  I 
fear  from  this  sad  wound." 

And  so  they  rowed  from  the  land,  while  Bevi- 
dere stood  on  the  shore  sadly  watching  the  barge 
go  from  him. 

"  Ah,  my  lord  Arthur,"  he  cried,  "  what  shall 
become  of  me,  now  that  you  go  from  me  and  leave 
me  here  alone  among  my  enemies  ?  " 

"  Comfort  thyself,"  said  the  king,  "  and  do  what 
thou  mayest,  for  in  me  can  no  man  henceforth 
put  his  trust.  I  go  into  the  vale  of  Avilion,  to  a 
happy  summer  island  far  over  the  sea,  where  I 
shall  be  healed  of  my  grievous  wound.  But  when 
I  shall  come  again  no  voice  may  tell.  Mayhap  I 
shall  never  come,  but  dwell  forever  in  that  sunnv 
vale.  If  you  never  hear  more  of  me,  pray  for  my 
soul." 

Then  again  the  queens  and  the  ladies  wept  and 
moaned,  and  the  barge  moved  swiftly  over  the 
long  waves  and  afar  to  sea,  while  Bevidere  stood 
and  watched  it  till  it  became  a  black  speck  on  the 
waters.  Then  it  vanished  and  was  seen  no  more, 
and  the  lonely  watcher  cast  himself  upon  the  beach, 
weeping  like  one  who  has  lost  all  life's  happiness. 

But  when  night  came  near  he  turned  and  went 
wearily  away,  heavy  with  the  weight  of  death  that 


THE  DEATH  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER.  339 

lay  upon  his  soul,  for  he  alone  remained  of  yester- 
day's mighty  hosts.  All  that  night  he  journeyed 
through  a  great  forest,  and  in  the  morning  he  found 
himself  between  two  hoary  cliffs,  with  a  chapel  and 
a  hermitage  in  the  glen  that  lay  between. 

In  this  hermitage  he  found  the  holy  man  who 
had  been  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  who  had 
come  hither  to  escape  Mordred's  rage.  With  him 
Bevidere  staved  till  he  was  cured  of  his  wounds, 
and  afterwards  he  put  on  poor  clothes,  and  served 
the  hermit  full  lowly  in  fasting  and  prayers. 

But  as  for  the  three  queens  who  went  with  Ar- 
thur to  the  island  of  Avilion,  the  chronicles  sav  that 
they  were  ^forgan  le  Fay  his  sister,  the  queen  of 
Northgalis,  and  the  queen  of  the  Waste  Lands. 
And  with  them  was  Nimue,  the  lady  of  the  lake. 
All  were  skilled  in  magic,  but  whither  they  bore 
King  Arthur,  or  where  lies  the  magical  isle  of 
Avilion,  or  if  he  shall  come  again,  all  this  no  man 
can  say.  These  are  of  the  secrets  that  time  alone 
can  tell,  and  we  only  know  that  his  coming  is  not 
yet. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

THE  DEATH   OF   LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER. 

When  word  was  brought  to  Lancelot  du  Lake 
that  Mordred  had  usurped  the  throne  of  England, 
had  besieged  Guenever  in  the  Tower  of  London, 
and  had  sought  to  prevent  Arthur  from  landing 


340  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

at  Dover,  his  soul  was  moved  to  wrath,  and  sor- 
row. And  still  more  was  he  moved  by  the  letter 
of  Sir  Gawaine,  with  its  pitiful  self-reproach  and 
earnest  wistfulness. 

"  Is  it  a  time  for  mourning  ?  ^'  said  Sir  Bors  to 
Lancelot.  "  My  counsel  is  that  you  cross  at  once 
to  England,  visit  Gawaine's  tomb,  as  he  requests, 
and  then  revenge  my  lord  Arthur  and  my  lady 
Guenever  on  this  base  traitor,  Mordred.'* 

"  It  is  well  advised,"  said  Lancelot.  "  To  Eng- 
land we  must  go  in  all  haste." 

Then  ships  and  galleys  were  made  ready  with 
the  greatest  despatch,  for  Lancelot  and  his  host  to 
pass  over  to  England.  And  in  good  time  he  landed 
at  Dover,  having  with  him  seven  kings  and  a  mighty 
host  of  men. 

But  when  he  asked  the  people  of  Dover  the  news 
of  the  country,  his  heart  was  filled  with  dismay 
to  hear  of  the  great  battle  on  Salisbury  Downs, 
where  a  hundred  thousand  men  had  died  in  a  dav, 
and  of  the  death  of  Arthur  the  king. 

"  Alas ! "  said  Lancelot,  "  this  is  the  heaviest 
tidings  that  ever  mortal  ears  heard.  Would  that 
I  had  been  advised  in  good  time.  Nothing  now 
remains  to  do.  I  have  come  too  late.  Fair  sirs, 
I  pray  you  to  show  me  the  tomb  of  Sir  Gawaine." 

Then  they  brought  him  into  the  castle  of  Dover, 
and  showed  him  the  tomb.  Lancelot  fell  on  his 
knees  before  it,  and  wept,  and  prayed  heartily  for 
the  soul  of  him  that  lay  within.  And  that  night 
he  made  a  funeral  feast,  to  which  all  who  came  had 
flesh,  fish,  wine,  and  ale,  and  every  man  and  woman 
was  given  twelve  pence.     With  his  own  hand  he 


THE  DEATH  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER.    34 1 

dealt  them  money  in  a  mourning  gown;  and  ever 
he  wept,  and  prayed  for  tlie  soul  of  Sir  Gawaine. 

In  the  morning,  all  the  priests  and  clerks  of  the 
country  round  gathered,  at  his  request,  and  sang 
a  requiem  mass  before  the  tomb.  And  Lancelot 
offered  a  hundred  pounds,  and  each  of  the  seven 
kings  forty  pounds,  and  a  thousand  knights  offered 
one  pound  each,  this  going  on  from  morning  till 
night.  And  Lancelot  lay  two  nights  on  the  tomb 
in  prayer  and  weeping. 

On  the  third  day  he  called  about  him  the  kings, 
dukes,  earls,  barons,  and  knights  of  his  train,  and 
said  to  them, — 

"  My  fair  lords,  I  thank  you  all  for  coming  into 
this  country  with  me;  but  we  have  come  too  late, 
and  that  I  shall  mourn  while  I  live.  But  since  it 
is  so,  I  shall  myself  ride  and  seek  my  lady  Queen 
Guenever,  for  men  say  that  she  has  fled  from  Lon- 
don, and  become  a  nun,  and  that  she  lives  in  deep 
penance,  and  in  fasting,  prayers,  and  almsgiving, 
and  IS  sick  almost  unto  death.  Therefore,  I  pray 
you,  await  me  here,  and  if  I  come  not  again  within 
fifteen  days,  then  take  ship  and  return  to  your  own 
countrv." 

ft/ 

"  Is  it  wise  for  you  to  ride  in  this  realm?''  said 
Sir  Bors.     "  Few  friends  will  you  find  here  now." 

"  Be  that  as  it  may,"  said  Lancelot,  "  I  shall  go 
on  my  journey.  Keep  you  still  here,  for  no  man 
nor  child  shall  go  with  me." 

No  boot  was  it  to  strive  with  him,  and  he  de- 
parted and  rode  westerly,  on  a  seven  or  eight 
days'  journey,  asking  of  all  people  as  he  went.  At 
last  he  came  to  the  nunnery    where    was    Queen 


342  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

Guenevep,  who  saw  him  as  she  walked  in  the  cloister, 
and  swooned  away,  so  that  her  ladies  had  work 
enough  to  keep  her  from  falling.  When  she  could 
speak,  she  said, — 

"  Ye  marvel  why  I  am  so  held.  Truly,  it  is  for 
the  sight  of  yonder  knight.  Bid  him  come  hither, 
I  pray  you." 

And  when  Sir  Lancelot  had  come,  she  said  to  him 
with  sweet  and  sad  visage, — 

"  Sir  Lancelot,  through  our  love  has  all  this  hap- 
pened, and  through  it  my  noble  lord  has  come  to 
his  death.  As  for  me,  I  am  in  a  way  to  get  my 
soul's  health.  Therefore,  I  pray  you  heartily,  for 
all  the  love  that  ever  was  between  us,  that  you  see 
me  no  more  in  the  visage ;  but  turn  to  thy  kingdom 
again,  and  keep  well  thy  realm  from  war  and  wrack. 
So  well  have  I  loved  you  that  my  heart  will  not 
serve  me  to  see  you,  for  through  you  and  me  is  the 
flower  of  kings  and"  knights  destroyed.  Therefore, 
Sir  Lancelot,  go  to  thy  realm,  and  take  there  a  wife, 
and  live  with  her  in  joy  and  bliss;  and  I  beseech 
you  heartily  to  pray  to  God  for  me,  that  I  may 
amend  my  mis-living." 

"  Nay,  madam,  I  shall  never  take  a  wife,"  said 
Lancelot.  "  Never  shall  I  be  false  to  you ;  but 
the  same  lot  you  have  chosen  that  shall  I  choose.*' 

"  If  you  will  do  so,  I  pray  that  you  may,"  said 
the  queen.  "  Yet  I  cannot  believe  but  that  you  will 
turn  to  the  world  again." 

"  Madam,"  he  earnestly  replied,  "  in  the  quest  of 
the  Sangreal  I  would  have  forsaken  the  world  but 
for  the  service  of  your  lord.  If  I  had  done  so 
then  with  all  my  heart,  I  had  passed  all  the  knights 


THE  DEATH  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER.  343 

on  the  quest  except  Galahad,  my  son.  And  had 
I  now  found  you  disposed  to  earthly  joys,  I  would 
have  begged  you  to  come  into  my  realm.  But  since 
I  find  you  turned  to  heavenly  hopes,  I,  too,  shall 
take  to  penance,  and  pray  while  my  life  lasts,  if  I 
can  find  any  hermit,  either  gray  or  white,  who  will 
receive  me.  Wherefore,  madam,  I  pray  you  kiss 
me,  and  never  more  shall  my  lips  touch  woman's." 

"  Nay,''  said  the  queen,  "  that  shall  I  never  do. 
But  take  you  my  blessing,  and  leave  me." 

Then  they  parted.  But  hard  of  heart  would  he 
have  been  who  had  not  wept  to  see  their  grief;  for 
there  was  lamentation  as  deep  as  though  they  had 
been  wounded  with  spears.  The  ladies  bore  the 
queen  to  her  chamber,  and  Lancelot  took  his  horse 
'and  rode  all  that  day  and  all  that  night  in  a  forest, 
weeping. 

At  last  he  became  aware  of  a  hermitage  and  a 
chapel  that  stood  between  two  cliffs,  and  then  he 
heard  a  little  bell  ring  to  mass,  so  he  rode  thither 
and  alighted,  and  heard  mass. 

He  that  sang  mass  was  the  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury, and  with  him  was  Sir  Bevidere.  After  the 
mass  they  conversed  together,  and  when  Bevidere 
had  told  all  his  lamentable  tale,  Lancelot's  heart 
almost  broke  with  sorrow.  He  flung  'his  arms 
abroad,  crying, — 

"  Alas !  who  may  trust  this  world  ?  " 

Then  he  kneeled,  and  prayed  the  bishop  to  shrive 
and  absolve  him,  beseeching  that  he  might  accept 
him  as  his  brother  in  the  faith.  To  this  the  bishop 
gladly  consented,  antf  he  put  a  religious  habit  on 


344  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

Lancelot,  who  served  God  there  night  and  day  with 
prayers  and  fastings. 

Meanwhile  the  army  remained  at  Dover.  But 
Lionel  with  fifteen  lords  rode  to  London  to  seek 
Lancelot.  There  he  was  assailed  by  Mordred^s 
friends,  dxid  slain  with  many  of  his  lords.  Then 
Sir  Bors  bade  the  kings,  with  their  followers,  to 
return  to  France.  But  he,  with  others  of  Lan- 
celot's kindred,  set  out  to  ride  over  all  England  in 
search  of  their  lost  leader. 

At  length  Bors  came  by  chance  to  the  chapel 
where  Lancelot  was.  As  he  rode  by  he  heard  the 
sound  of  a  little  bell  that  rang  to  mass,  and  there- 
upon alighted  and  entered  the  chapel.  But  when 
he  saw  Lancelot  and  Bevidere  in  hermits*  clothing  ^ 
his  surprise  was  great,  and  he  prayed  for  the  privi-, 
lege  to  put  on  the  same  suit.  Afterwards  other 
knights  joined  them,  so  that  there  were  seven  in  all. 

There  they  remained  in  penance  for  six  years, 
and  afterwards  Sir  Lancelot  took  the  habit  of  a 
priest,  and  for  a  twelvemontli  he  sang  mass.  But 
at  length  came  a  night  when  he  had  a  vision  that 
bade  him  to  seek  Almesburv,  where  he  would  find 
(fuenever  dead.  Thrice  that  night  was  the  vision 
repeated,  and  Lancelot  rose  before  day  and  told 
the  hermit  of  what  he  had  dreamed. 

^'  It  is  from  God,''  vsaid  the  liennit.  "  See  that 
you  make  ready,  and  disobey  not  the  warning.*' 

So,  in  the  earlv  morn,  Lancelot  and  his  fellows 
set  out  on  foot  from  Glastonbury  to  Almesbury, 
which  is  little  more  than  thirtv  miles.  But  thev 
were  two  days  on  the  road,  for  they  were  weak 
and   feeble  with   long  penance.     And   when  they 


THE  DEATH  OF  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER.    345 

reached   the   nunnery   they   found   that   Guenever 
had  died  but  half  an  hour  before. 

The  ladies  told  Lancelot  that  the  queen  had 
said, — 

"  Hither  cometh  Lancelot  as  fast  as  he  may  to 
fetch  my  corpse.  But  I  beseech  Almighty  God 
that  I  may  never  behold  him  again  with  my  mortal 
eyes.'' 

This,  said  the  ladies,  was  her  prayer  for  two  days, 
till  she  died.  When  Ijancelot  looked  upon  her  dead 
face  he  wept  not  greatly,  but  sighed.  And  he  said 
all  the  service  for  the  dead  himself,  and  in  the 
morning  he  sang  mass. 

Then  was  the  corpse  placed  in  a  horse-bier,  and 
so  taken  to  Glastonbury  with  a  hundred  torches 
ever  burning  about  it,  and  Lancelot  and  his  fellows 
on  foot  beside  it,  singing  and  reading  many  a  holy 
orison,  and  burning  frankincense  about  the  corpse. 

When  the  chapel  had  been  reached,  and  services 
said  by  the  hermit  archbishop,  the  queen's  corpse 
was  wrapped  in  cored  cloth  of  Raines,  thirty-fold, 
and  afterwards  was  put  in  a  web  of  lead,  and  then 
in  a  coffin  of  marble. 

But  when  the  corpse  of  her  whom  he  had  so 
long  loved  was  put  in  the  earth,  Lancelot  swooned 
with  grief,  and  lay  long  like  one  dead,  till  the 
hermit  came  and  aroused  him,  and  said, — 

^^You  are  to  blame  for  such  unmeasured  grief. 
You  displease  God  thereby." 

"  I  trust  not,"  Lancelot  replied,  "  for  my  sorrow 
is  too  deep  ever  to  cease.  When  I  remember  how 
greatly  I  am  to  blame  for  the  death  of  this  noble 
King  Arthur  and  Queen  Guenever,  my  heart  sinks 


346  THE  HAND  OF  DESTINY. 

within  me,  and  I  feel  that  I  shall  never  know  a 
moment's  joy  again/' 

Thereafter  he  sickened  and  pined  away,  for  the 
bishop  nor  any  of  his  fellows  could  make  him  eat 
nor  drink  but  very  little,  but  day  and  night  he 
prayed,  and  wasted  away,  and  ever  lay  grovelling 
on  the  tomb  of  the  queen. 

So,  within  six  weeks  afterwards,  Lancelot  fell 
sick  and  lay  in  his  bed.  Then  he  sent  for  the  bishop 
and  all  his  fellows,  and  said  with  sad  voice :  "  Sir 
Bishop,  I  pray  you  give  me  all  the  rites  that  be- 
long to  a  Christian  man,  for  my  end  is  at  hand/' 

"  This  is  but  heaviness  of  your  blood,"  replied 
the  bishop.  "  You  shall  be  well  amended,  I  hope, 
through  God's  grace,  by  to-morrow  morning." 

"  In  heaven,  mayhap,  but  not  on  earth,"  said 
Lancelot.  ^^  So  give  me  the  rites  of  the  church, 
and  after  my  death,  I  beg  you  to  take  my  body 
to  Joyous  Gard,  for  there  I  have  vowed  that  I  would 
be  buried." 

When  they  had  heard  this,  and  saw  that  he  was 
indeed  near  his  end,  there  was  such  weeping  and 
wringing  of  hands  among  his  fellows  that  they  could 
hardly  help  the  bishop  in  the  holy  offices  of  the 
church.  But  that  night,  after  the  midnight  hour, 
as  the  bishop  lay  asleep,  he  fell  into  such  a  hearty 
laugh  of  joy  that  they  all  came  to  him  in  haste, 
and  asked  him  what  ailed  him. 

"Why  did  you  wake  me?"  he  cried.  "I  was 
never  in  my  life  so  happy  and  merry." 

"  Wherefore  ?  "  asked  Sir  Bors. 

"Truly,  here  was  Sir  Lancelot  with  me,  with 
more  angels  than  I  ever  saw  men  together;  and 


THE  DEATH  OP  LANCELOT  AND  GUENEVER.    347 


I  saw  the  angels  bear  him  to  heaven,  and  the  gates 
of  heaven  opened  to  him/^ 

"  This  is  but  the  vexation  of  a  dream/^  said  Sir 
Bors.    "  Lancelot  may  yet  mend/' 

"  Go  to  his  bed/'  said  the  hermit,  "  and  you  shall 
find  if  my  dream  has  meaning." 

This  they  hastened  to  do,  and  there  lay  Lan- 
celot dead,  but  with  a  smile  on  his  lips,  and  the 
sweetest  savor  about  him  thev  ever  had  known. 

ft/ 

Great  was  the  grief  that  followed,  for  never 
earthly  man  was  mourned  as  was  Lancelot.  In  the 
morning,  after  the  bishop  had  made  a  requiem 
mass,  he  and  his  fellows  put  the  corpse  of  the  noble 
knight  into  the  same  horse-bier  that  had  borne 
Guenever,  and  the  queen's  corpse  with  it,  and  they 
were  taken  together  to  Joyous  Gard,  with  such  state 
and  ceremony  as  befitted  those  of  royal  blood. 

And  there  all  the  services  of  the  church  were 
sung  and  read,  while  the  face  of  Lancelot  lay  open 
for  people  to  see;  for  such  was  then  the  custom  of 
the  land.  When  the  services  were  over  they  were 
buried  in  one  tomb,  for  so  great  had  been  their  love 
during  life  that  all  men  said  they  should  not  be 
divided  in  death. 

During  these  events,  Sir  Constantino,  the  noble 
son  of  Sir  Cador  of  Cornwall,  had  been  chosen  king 
of  England  in  Arthur's  place,  and  a  worthy  monarch 
he  proved,  ruling  the  realm  worshipfully  and  long. 

After  Lancelot's  death  the  new  king  sent  for 
the  bishop  of  Canterbury,  and  restored  him  to  his 
archbishopric ;  but  Sir  Bevidere  remained  a  hermit 
at  Glastonbury  to  his  life's  end. 

King   Constantino  also  .desired  the  kindred  of 


fliflnM 


348  THE  HAND  OP  DESTINY. 

Lancelot  to  remain  in  his  realm;  but  this  they 
would  not  do,  but  returned  to  their  own  country. 
Four  of  them.  Sir  Bors,  Sir  Hector,  Sir  Blamor, 
and  Sir  Bleoberis,  went  to  the  Holy  Land,  where 
they  fought  long  and  stoutly  against  the  Saracens. 
And  there  they  died  upon  a  Good  Friday,  for  God^s 
sake. 

And  so  ends  the  book  of  the  life  and  death  of 
King  Arthur  and  his  noble  Knights  of  the  Eound 
Table,  who  were  an  hundred  and  fifty  when  they 
were  all  together.  Let  us  pray  that  God  was  mer- 
ciful to  them  all. 


THE   END. 


•* 


•|V.1 


3  tlOS  005  HtH  HHt 


STANFORD  UNIVER 

CECIL  H.  GREE 

STANFORD,  CALIFOR 

(415)  723 

All  books  may  be  rec< 
.f.  DATE  C 

|k>  J0il  19W. 


