THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


AND 


THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI 


THE 


LAWS    OF    MOSES 


AND    THE 


CODE   OF   yAMMURABI 


BY 

STANLEY   A.  COOK,  M.A. 

FELLOW   OF    GONVILLE   AND  CAIUS  COLLEGIA   CAMBRIDGE',  MEMBER   OF   THE 
EDITORIAL   STAFF    OF   THE    '  ENCYCLOPEDIA    BIBL1CA  ' 


' 

or  THE 
UNIVERSITY 

Of 

/FOR 


LONDON 
ADAM    AND    CHARLES    BLACK 

1903 


c 


SENERAL 


'PREFACE 

THE  chief  aim  of  the  present  study  is  to  provide  a 
full  account  of  the  contents  of  the  recently  discovered 
Babylonian  Code  of  laws  promulgated  in  the  twenty- 
third  century  before  Christ  by  Hammurabi,  the 
king  whose  name  has  been  identified  with  Amraphel, 
the  contemporary  of  Abraham  (Gen.  xiv.).  The  fact 
that  it  is  the  oldest  collection  of  laws  in  existence, 
and  the  advanced  state  of  culture  which  Babylonia 
had  reached  even  at  that  remote  period,  make  the 
Code  one  of  the  most  notable  discoveries  in  the 
history  of  cuneiform  research,*  and  the  great  interest 
which  it  has  succeeded  in  arousing  is  evinced  by  the 
rapidly  growing  number  of  monographs,  pamphlets, 
and  articles  which  have  already  appeared  in  print. 

To  jurists  and  students  of  comparative  law,  the 
Code,  by  reason  of  its  antiquity,  has  an  importance 
surpassing  that  of  similar  collections  from  India, 
Greece,  or  Rome.  A  critical  estimate  of  the  extent 
of  Babylonia's  influence  upon  the  culture  of  these 
lands  has  yet  to  be  made,  but  the  varied  traces  that 
have  hitherto  been  adduced  would  suggest  that  in 


vi  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

the  department  of  law,   too,    these  lands  may  be 

'found    to    have    been    not    entirely    ignorant    of 

i' Hammurabi's    Code.       Semitic    scholars,    too,    and 

especially    students    of    biblical    and    post  -  biblical 

literature,  will  welcome  the  recovery  of  a  monument 

which   for  its  bearing  upon  the  laws  of  the   Old 

Testament  exceeds  in  value  even  the  discoveries  of 

Babylonian  creation-legends  and  deluge-myths. 

The  Code  comes  at  a  time  when  the  biblical 
world  is  being  flooded  with  literature,  scholarly  and 
otherwise,  dealing  with  the  extent  of  Babylonian 
civilisation  upon  Israel.  It  is,  therefore,  a  particu- 
larly opportune  discovery,  since  a  careful  examination 
should  enable  the  unprejudiced  reader  to  determine 
how  far — if  at  all — Israelite  legislation  was  indebted 
to  Babylonia.  If  the  indebtedness  is  beyond  dis- 
pute, then  the  influence  of  Babylonia  must  have 
been  of  the  most  deep-seated  character ;  but  if,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  dependence  of  Israel  upon  the 
Babylonian  Code  is  not  proved,  only  the  strongest 
arguments  will  allow  us  to  accept  those  views  in 
accordance  with  which  Palestine  had  been  saturated 
with  Babylonian  culture  and  civilisation  centuries 
before  Hebrew  history  took  its  rise. 

As  a  preliminary  to  our  account  of  the  Code  a 
few  pages  have  been  devoted  in  Chapter  II.  to  a 
general  consideration  of  Babylonia  and  Israel.  The 
problem  of  the  origin  of  Hammurabi's  dynasty 
naturally  came  up  for  discussion,  since,  if  it  was 


PREFACE  vii 

Canaanite,  there  would  be  the  clearest  grounds  for 
the  view  that  the  Code  reflects  Canaanite  institu- 
tions. If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  dynasty  was 
Arabian,  the  dependence  of  Israel,  and  more  par- 
ticularly of  Israelite  procedure,  upon  Northern 
Arabia  might  suggest  that  this  land  was  the 
common  home  of  the  Babylonian  and  Hebrew 
systems  of  legislation.  Here  it  was  impossible  to 
ignore  the  question  of  the  antiquity  of  the  old 
Arabian  civilisation,  and  so — unwillingly  enough — 
one  found  oneself  drawn  into  the  field  of  controversy. 
The  conclusion  that  was  reached  in  this  chapter  was 
not  favourable  to  the  view  that  Babylonia,  or  even 
Arabia,  would  have  been  likely  to  influence  Israel  to 
such  an  extent  as  to  impose  upon  it  a  code  of  laws 
representing  a  stage  of  society  which  the  Israelites 
had  scarcely  reached  before  the  Exile,  and  this  pro- 
visional conclusion  was  not  refuted  by  the  results 
which,  it  is  believed,  have  been  legitimately  obtained 
from  a  discussion  of  the  actual  contents  of  the  Code. 

The  scope  of  the  work  is  indicated  by  the  title.  \ 
It  is  primarily   restricted   to   a   discussion   of  the  < 
Pentateuchal  legislation  and  the  Code  of  Hammur-/ 
abi.     As  regards  the  "  Laws  of  Moses,"  the  critical 
standpoint   has    naturally   been    adopted,1  and  this 
procedure  appears  to  be  entirely  justified  by  the 
result.     The  Code  is  essentially  a  collection  of  civil 
laws,  and  on  this  account  the  numerous   Hebrew 

1  See  below,  pp.  42-47. 


viii  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

regulations  which  apply  solely  to  cult  and  ritual  do 
not  fall  to  be  considered.  The  Code  has  been 
supplemented  by  other  laws  from  Babylonian  or 
Assyrian  sources,  and  illustrated  from  the  numerous 
contract -tablets.  The  necessity  of  keeping  the 
book  within  limits,  however,  has  prevented  the 
writer  from  dealing  at  too  great  a  length  with  this 
department,  otherwise  Chapters  VI I. -IX.  would 
easily  have  been  double  their  present  length. 

The  present  writer  has  no  claim  to  any  inde- 
pendent knowledge  of  Assyrian.  Three  translations 
/of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  have  been  published, 
and  the  general  agreement  between  them  may  be 
unhesitatingly  accepted  as  a  sure  indication  that 
save  only  in  a  very  small  number  of  cases  is  there 
any  doubt  about  the  meaning  of  the  Code.  These 
three  translations  have  been  constantly  consulted 
and  compared,  and  he  must  accordingly  express  his 

indebtedness  to  Father  Scheil,  whose  transliteration 

"*      ••"•••a^^— — j,  — — — 

and  French  translation  form  the  basis  of  all  sub- 
sequent studies ;  to  Dr.  Hugo  Winckler,  whose 
German  edition  with  notes  is  published  in  con- 
venient form  in  Der  Alte  Orient ;  and  last,  but  not 
least,  to  the  Rev.  C.  H.  W.  Johns,  whose  handy 
English  translation,  with  its  complete  digest  of  the 
contents  of  the  Code,  is  indispensable  for  English 
readers. 

The  question  of  the  dependence  of  Israelite  law 
upon  the  Code  has  been  steadily  kept  in  view,  and 


PREFACE  ix 

the  attempt  has  been  made  to  work  it  out  on  the 
lines  already  indicated  in  an  article  by  the  present 
writer  in  The  Guardian  of  22nd  April.  Then 
essential  difference  between  the  highly -cultured 
Babylonians  and  the  more  primitive  Children  of  . 
Israel,  which  is  obviously  reflected  in  their  laws,  has 
rendered  it  necessary  to  widen  the  inquiry.  The 
post- biblical  legislation,  therefore,  has  not  been 
ignored,)  and  the  illustrations  are  significant  of  the 
traces  of  Babylonian  law  which  a  complete  survey 
of  Talmudical  and  post-Talmudical  literature  might 
have  multiplied.  Further,  the  valuable  fifth-century 
law-book  edited  by  Bruns  and  Sachau  has  been 
frequently  drawn  upon,  and  its  importance  for  the 
study  of  comparative  Semitic  legislation  must  be 
recognised  to  be  of  the  very  first  order.  In  spite  of 
its  admitted  indebtedness  to  Roman  law,  it  is  difficult 
to  avoid  the  suspicion  that  a  number  of  the  analogies 
are  to  be  ascribed  to  the  general  similarity  of 
conditions  which  prevailed  in  the  two  lands,  rather 
than  to  actual  dependence  upon  Rome. 

The  point  of  departure  for  the  study  of  Semitic  \ 
law  must  be  sought  among  those  communities  where  j 
society  is  least  complex.      The  attempt  has  been 
made,  accordingly,  to  pay  some  regard  to  early  pre- 
Mohammedan  usages  in  so  far  as  they  have  been 
collected    by   others,  notably  by  Robertson   Smith 
and  Wellhausen  ;  and  if  the  chapters  dealing  with 
"the  Family"    in   all   its  phases   and   aspects   are 


x  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

unduly  lengthy,  the  explanation  must  be  sought  in 
the  fact  that  the  former  scholar  in  his  Kinship  and 
Marriage  in  Early  Arabia1-  has  emphasised  the 
importance  of  the  subject  in  its  bearing  upon  the 
comparative  study  of  Semitic  institutions. 

Finally,  primitive  Semites  are  still  to  be  found 
;  the  present  day  between  the  Tigris  and  the  Nile. 
The  tenacity  with  which  ancient  religious  customs 
have  been  retained  by  the  Fellahin  and  Bedouin  is 
familiar.  No  one  can  read  the  observations  of  such 
workers  as  Burckhardt,  Doughty,  Baldensperger, 
Curtiss,  Jaussen,  and  others,  without  the  conviction 
that  distinct  traces  of  primitive  Semitic  religion 
have  been  preserved  among  the  modern  Arabs  and 
Syrians,  and  that  they  may  be  detected  either  in 
their  native  form,  or  slightly,  but  recognisably, 
tinged  with  Mohammedanism.  If  this  be  true  of 
religion,  if  the  peculiar  characteristics  of  Babylonian 
worship,  for  example,  have  not  left  their  stamp  upon 
the  ruder  tribes,  surely  we  may  expect  to  find  in 
their  laws  and  customs,  also,  the  primitive  principles 
which  the  Israelites  brought  from  the  desert,  and 
modified  under  the  influence  of  their  settled  agricul- 
tural life  in  the  land  of  Canaan,  and  which  the 
earliest  Semitic  Babylonians  developed,  altered,  and- 
adapted  to  suit  their  growing  civilisation.  To  trace 
the  growth  of  these  principles,  as  we  see  them  at 

1  A  new  edition  of  this  work  is  now  being  published  under  the 
editorship  of  the  present  writer. 


PREFACE  xi 

the  present  day  in  the  East,  down  to  the  finished 
code  of  law  of  a  Hammurabi,  as  it  existed  over  four 
thousand  years  ago,  belongs  rather  to  a  handbook 
of  Semitic  legislation  and  lies  far  outside  the  scope 
of  the  present  volume.  Nevertheless,  in  spite  of  its 
shortcomings,  this  collection  of  material  from  various 
parts  of  the  Semitic  field  will,  it  is  hoped,  not  be 
without  some  interest  to  those  whose  inclinations 
lead  them  to  the  study  of  the  unchanging  East. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  have  not  access 
to  the  Babylonian  and  other  texts  cited  herein,  a 
transliteration  of  the  more  important  terms  or 
phrases  has  frequently  been  added.  The  indexes 
have  been  made  fairly  complete  for  the  greater 
facility  of  reference,  and  readers  who  do  not  happen 
to  possess  a  translation  of  the  Code  will  notice  that 
the  pages  indicated  in  heavy  type  in  the  first  index 
(p.  289  sqq.)  will  usually  be  found  to  contain  either  a 
translation  or  a  paraphrase  of  the  section  in  the  Code 
in  question. 

Attention  may  also  be  directed  to  the  Addenda  \ 
which  take  account  of  the  most  recent  literature  of  / 
the  Code  and  include  some  corrections  of  import- ' 
ance.      In  spite  of  the  care    exercised    by  myself 
and    by    the   printers — to   the    accuracy    of  whose 
reader  I  am  indebted — errors  doubtless  remain,  for 
notification  of  any  of  these  I  should  be  exceedingly 
obliged.  STANLEY  A.  COOK. 

LONDON,  October  23,  1903. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

LIST  OF  PRINCIPAL  AUTHORITIES  AND  ABBREVIATIONS  xvii 


CHAPTER    I 

THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI 

Sources  of  the  inquiry — The  discovery  of  the  monument — Descrip- 
tion— The  Prologue — Synopsis  of  the  Code — The  Epilogue — 
"Blessings  and  Curses" — Reign  of  Hammurabi — Associations 
with  Israel — Preliminary  questions  ....  i 

CHAPTER    II 

BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL 

Hammurabi's  dynasty  of  foreign  origin — The  arguments — Linguistic 
evidence  doubtful — Alleged  traces  of  monotheism — Theory  of 
the  Arabian  origin  of  the  dynasty — Ancient  Arabian  culture  and 
its  antiquity — Babylonian  influence  over  Canaan — General  con- 
siderations— Importance  of  the  Code  as  a  test — Legal  literature 
in  Babylonia  contrasted  with  the  Mosaic  laws — Development  of 
Israelite  law  .........  20 

CHAPTER    III 
ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE 

Babylonians  and  primitive  Semites — Tribal  custom  the  foundation  of 
law — Blood -revenge — Judicial  authorities — Institution  of  judges 
in  Israel — Centralisation  of  justice — Divine  decisions — Resort 
to  a  deity — Oaths  of  purgation  "  before  God  " — Semitic  ordeals — 
Procedure  in  Babylonia — Laws  relating  to  judges  and  witnesses  .  48 

xiii 


xiv  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

CHAPTER    IV 

THE  FAMILY 

PAGE 

Position  of  women — Marriage- types — Marriage  by  purchase — Details — 
"  Breach  of  promise  " — Modifications  of  purchase-system — Laws 
of  the  dowry  and  marriage-settlement — Survivals  of  earlier  con- 
ditions— Wife's  position  in  the  family 71 

CHAPTER   V 
THE  FAMILY  (continued} 

Bars  to  marriage — Babylonian  laws  against  incest  —  Chastity  and 
slander — Parallel  Hebrew  laws — Laws  of  adultery — Ordeals — 
Childlessness  and  bigamy — Polygyny  in  the  Old  Testament — 
Sarah  and  Hagar — Other  laws  of  separation  or  divorce — Divorce 
in  Israel — Wife's  ability  to  divorce  herself — Later  Syrian  laws  .  96 

CHAPTER   VI 

THE  FAMILY  (concluded} 

Parental  authority  —  Old  Babylonian  family  -  laws  —  Adoption  of 
children — Special  laws  bearing  on  the  same — Limits  to  disin- 
heritance— Wills  and  division  of  property — Rights  of  concubines 
and  maid-servants — Position  of  the  widow — Ability  of  women  to 
inherit — Laws  for  special  classes — The  votary — Law  of  intestacy  128 

CHAPTER   VII 

SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS 

Slaves  in  Babylonia — Their  protection — Rights  of  slave -owners — 
Slavery  for  debt — Marriage-laws  of  slaves — Their  position  in 
Israel — Laws  for  Hebrew  slaves — Humane  tendency  of  Deuter- 
onomy—  Status  and  wages  of  hirelings  —  Responsibilities  of 
labourers — and  of  shepherds — General  resemblance  of  laws 
among  pastoral  folk  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  153 

CHAPTER   VIII 

LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE 

Common  lands  among  the  Semites — Rise  of  individual  property — 
Lands  on  fief — Holders  of  crown-lands,  their  rights  and  duties — 
Old  agricultural  precepts  in  Babylonia — Laws  for  farmers  and 
gardeners — Land  on  metayer — Israelite  laws  and  usages — Irri- 
gation— Miscellaneous  Babylonian  laws — Damage  to  crops  by 
animals  or  fire  .  .  .  1 80 


CONTENTS  xv 

CHAPTER    IX 

TRADE  AND  COMMERCE 

PAGE 

Business  in  Babylonia  contrasted  with  Israel — Scantiness  of  evidence 
in  Israel — Methods  of  conducting  business — General  laws  for 
the  furtherance  of  business  and  trade — Theft  and  burglary — 
Analogous  Hebrew  laws  —  The  receiver  of  stolen  and  lost 
property  —  Laws  for  property  in  the  charge  of  another — The 
boatman — Hired  animals  in  Israel  and  Babylonia — Laws  of 
deposit — Debtor  and  creditor — Pledges  and  security — Simplicity 
of  procedure  in  Israel — Antichretic  pledge  in  Syria — Trading 
journeys — Laws  for  agent  and  principal  .....  204 

CHAPTER   X 

PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON 

The  king — Kidnapping — Witchcraft  and  sorcery — Responsibilities  of 
the  builder — Of  the  doctor  and  veterinary — Traces  in  Syrian 
law — Principles  of  the  jus  talionis — Modifications  —  Assaults 
upon  men — Assaults  upon  women — Manslaughter  and  murder — 
The  unknown  murderer — Evolution  of  the  talio — Stage  reached 
by  the  Code  of  Hammurabi — Individual  responsibility  .  .  240 

CHAPTER   XI 

CONCLUSION 

General  considerations — Phraseology  not  conclusive — CH  contrasted 
with  Book  of  Covenant  and  Deuteronomy — Divergent  treat- 
ment of  identical  topics — The  humanity  of  the  codes — Strangers 
and  foreigners — Laws  relating  to  cult,  religion,  and  ethics — 
Influence  of  CH  in  post-exilic  period  —  Comparative  Semitic 
legislation  ..........  263 


ADDENDA 283 

INDEX  TO  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI         ....  289 

INDEX  OF  BIBLICAL  PASSAGES 293 

GENERAL  INDEX  .  299 


LIST   OF   PRINCIPAL  AUTHORITIES 
AND   ABBREVIATIONS 

V.  Scheil,  DtUgation  en  Perse.  Memoires  publics  sous  la  direction 
de  M.  J.  de  Morgan,  delegue  general.  Tome  iv.  Textes  £la- 
mites-Shnitiques.  Deuxieme  SJrze  (Paris,  1902).  The  Code  of 
Hammurabi  with  the  complete  text  reproduced  by  photogravure, 
transliterated  and  translated. 

H.  Winckler,  Die  Gesetze  Hammurabis,  4th  year,  part  four  of  Det 
Alte  Orient-,  second  edition,  Leipzig,  1903;  complete  transla- 
tion with  introduction  and  short  notes.1 

C.  H.  W.  Johns,  The  Oldest  Code  of  Laws  in  the  World.  Second 
impression,  Edinburgh,  1903  ;  translation  of  the  Code  with  an 
introduction  and  a  complete  digest  of  the  contents.  Philological 
notes  in  the  American  Journal  of  Semitic  Languages,  1903, 
Jan.,  April. 

Johannes  Jeremias,  Moses  und  Hammurabi  (Leipzig,  1903).  General 
account  of  the  contents  of  the  Code,  in  the  light  of  the  Old 
Testament ;  with  Assyriological  and  other  notes. 

S.  Orelli,  Das  Gesets  Hammurabis  und  die  Thora  (Leipzig,  1903). 
General  account  of  the  Code  with  Old  Testament  parallels.2 


Beitrdge  zur  Assyriologie,  ed.  Delitzsch  and  Haupt  (Leipzig,  1  890-     ). 
Keilinschriftliche  Bibliothek,  Sammhing  von  Assyrischen  Texten,  ed. 

Schrader,  vol.  iv.  :   Texte  juristischen  und  geschdftlichen  Inhalts, 

ed.  Peiser  (Berlin, 


1  A  third  edition  has  recently  appeared. 

2  Among   the   more   important  articles  may  be  mentioned  those  by  Father 
Lagrange  in  the  Revue  Bib  lique,  1903,  January,  pp.  27-51,  and  by  Dareste  in  the 
Journal  des  Savants,  1902,  Oct.,  pp.  517-528;  Nov.,  pp.  586-596.      Some  notice 
of  the  latest  literature  will  be  found  in  the  Addenda. 

xvii 


xviii  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

King,  Letters  and  Inscriptions   of  Hammurabi,    I.— III.    (London, 

1898-1900). 
Kohler    and    Peiser,    Aus   dem    Babylonischen   Rechtsleben,    I. -IV. 

(Leipzig,  1894-1898). 

Meissner,  Beitrdge  zum  altbabylonischen  Privatrecht  (Leipzig,  1893). 
Pinches,  The  Old  Testament  in  the  Light  of  the  Historical  Records 

and  Legends  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia  (London,  1902). 
Sayce,  Babylonians  and  Assyrians  (London,  1900). 


Encyclopedia  Biblica,  I.-IV.  (London,  1899-1903)  =  EBi. 
Robertson  Smith,  The  Old  Testament  in  the  Jewish  Church  (second 

edition;  London,  1892). 

The  Prophets  of  Israel  (second  edition  ;  London,  1895). 
Lectures  on  theReligion  of  the  Semites  (second  edition  ;  London, 

1 8  94)  =  /&?/.  Sent® 
Kinship    and    Marriage     in    Early     Arabia    (second    edition ; 

London,  1 903)  =  Kinship.^ 
Wellhausen,  Die  E 'he  bei  den  Arabern  (Nachrichtenv.  d.  kgl.  Gesellsch. 

d.   Wissenschaft,  Gottingen,  1893;  No.  xi.). 
Reste  Arabischen  Heidentums  (second  edition  ;  Berlin,  1897). 
Palestine  Exploration  Fund,  Quarterly  Statements  (London,  1 869-     ) 

=  PEFQ. 

Zeitschrift  des  deutschen  Paldstina-  Vereins  (1878-     )  =  ZDP  V. 
Zeitschrift   der  deutschen  morgenldndischen  Gesellschaft  (1846-     ) 

=  ZDMG. 
Bruns  and  Sachau,  Syrisch-Romisches  Rechtsbuch  aus  dem  fiinften 

Jahrhundert  (Leipzig,  1880). 
J.  Kohler,  Rechtsvergleichende  Studien  iiber  islamitisches  Recht,  etc. 

(Berlin,  1889). 
J.  Estlin  Carpenter  and  G.  Harford-Battersby,  The  Hexateuch  .  .  . 

arranged  in  its  constituent  documents  .   .   .  with  introduction, 

notes,   marginal  references  and  synoptical  tables.      Two  vols. 

(Oxford,  1900). 
JE.     The  oldest  Hebrew  documents  ascribed  to  the   Jahwist    and 

Elohist  schools  respectively. 
P.     The  writings  of  the  Priestly  school. 


CHAPTER   I 

THE    CODE    OF    HAMMURABI 

Sources  of  the  inquiry — The  discovery  of  the  monument — Descrip- 
tion— The  Prologue — Synopsis  of  the  Code — The  Epilogue — 
"  Blessings  and  Curses  " — Reign  of  Hammurabi — Associations 
with  Israel — Preliminary  questions. 

*— — , 

ANCIENT  law  takes  its  rise  in  social  custom  based 
upon  precedent  and  practical  experience.  It  is 
closely  interwoven  with  religion,  and  lawless  deeds 
are  infractions  of  religious  principles.  The  ordinary^ 
affairs  of  everyday  life,  however,  are  regulated  by 
traditional  practice  preserved  without  writing,  and 
as  traditional  usages  frequently  vary  considerably, 
the  same  topic  may  be  variously  regarded  by 
separate  communities.  Among  the  Semites,  where 
there  were  numerous  divisions  and  subdivisions, 
nomadic  or  settled,  varying  in  organisation,  culture, 
and  religion,  engaged  in  pastoral,  agricultural,  or 
mercantile  pursuits,  there  was  scope  enough  for  the 
development  of  tribal  usage  in  manifold  directions, 
until,  with  the  gradual  unification  of  diverse  elements, 
the  possibility  arose  of  reducing  the  working  results 
of  past  experience  to  some  degree  of  order.  Among 


2  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

the  three  leading  divisions  of  the  Semites  we  find 
that  at  some  period  the  consuetudinary  usages  have 
received  the  stamp  of  a  divine  authority,  and  have 
henceforth  been  accepted  as  authoritative  laws,  the 
norm  and  foundation  of  subsequent  legislation. 
The  three  promulgations  are  those  of  Hammurabi 
in  Babylonia,  Moses  in  Israel,  and  Mohammed  in 
Arabia,  with  the  first  of  which  the  present  study  is 
primarily  concerned. 

The  past  century  has  revolutionised  our  ideas  of 
these  lands.  The  keenness  with  which  Arabic 
studies  have  been  pursued  has  immeasurably 
increased  our  knowledge  of  the  land  in  which  Islam 
took  its  birth,  and  has  permitted  us  to  gain  an 
insight  into  the  conditions  that  prevailed  before  the 
time  of  Mohammed.  The  discovery  and  decipher- 
ment of  ancient  Arabian  inscriptions  reaching  back 
some  centuries  before  the  time  of  Christ  have  re- 
vealed the  presence  of  an  old  civilisation  with  char- 
acteristic religious  and  mythological  features,  whose 
influence  upon  the  north-lying  land  of  Canaan  future 
research  may  enable  us  to  determine  with  more 
certainty  than  is  possible  at  present.1  In  regard  to 
the  Hebrews,  if  the  discoveries  on  Israelite  soil 
have  not  yet  been  of  such  far-reaching  importance 
as  those  in  the  adjacent  countries,  the  unremitting 
study  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  the  critical  investi- 
gation of  its  literary  sources  and  the  development 
of  its  ideas,  have  entirely  changed  the  long-held 
views  of  Israel's  religion  and  culture,  and  the  history 

1   See  below,  chap.  2,  pp.  30  sqq. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  3 

of  the   Hebrews  has  been  presented  in  a  clearer 
and  more  scientific   aspect.     Finally,  in  Babylonia 
and  Assyria,  the  excavation  of  ruined  mounds  and 
the  discovery  of  thousands  of  tablets  have  brought 
to  life  not  one  lost  nation  but  many,  and  we  are 
made  familiar  with  the  history  of  names  which  in 
the  Old  Testament  and  in  classical  writers  receive^ 
only  the  barest  mention.     A  fund  of  information  has 
been  placed  at  our  disposal  whereby  the  history  of  \ 
the    Nearer    East  is  placed  in  a  new  perspective  ] 
and   the   ancient   world   is   made    known    with   an  / 
almost    inconceivable    fulness.       In    Babylonia  and 
Assyria  the  tablets  have  brought  us  face  to  face 


with  a  highly  developed  religion  and  with  a  perfectly 
organised  military  state  ;  there  was  a  regular  postal 
exchange,   intercommunication   was   unbroken,   and 
mercantile  and   commercial    enterprise   was   in   full 
swing.      In  particular,  they  have  enabled  scholars! 
to  conclude  that  in  such  a  developed  organisation, 
the  principles  and  administration  of  law  and  justice^ 
must  have  been  firmly  established.     Not  to  speak 
of  the  legal  usages  which  were  to  be  inferred  from 
the  marriage,   commercial,    and    other   contracts,   a 
few  old  Babylonian  laws  have  been  known  for  some 
years,   and  on   internal  grounds   were  ascribed  by 
Meissner  and  Delitzsch  to  the  age  of  Hammurabi, 
the   sixth    king   of   the    first   Babylonian    dynasty.1 

1  Viz.  K  4223  contains  portions  of  laws,  §§  23-25,  31  sg.t  in  the 
Code  of  Hammurabi ;  K  8905,  §  45  sg. ;  K  10483,  §48  sg.;  K  11571, 
§  278  sg.  ;  K  10485,  §  104  sg.  ;  Dt.  81,  §  103  sq.  ;  Sm.  26,  §  267  ; 
Sm.  1642,  §  249  sq.  ;  Rm.  277,  §§  57-59,  120  sq.  See  further 
Meissner,  Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  3  493-523,  with  the  remarks  by  Fr.  Delitzsch, 


-. 


4  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

The  accuracy  of  this  opinion  was  triumphantly 
proved  a  little  more  than  a  year  ago  by  the  actual 
discovery  of  a  lengthy  series  of  enactments  which 
owed  their  promulgation  to  the  authority  of  no 
other  than  this  king. 

^TJiis  welcome  discovery  was  made  by  the  French 

excavation  under   the    superintendence    of  M.    de 

Morgan  at  the  great  mound  known  as  the  Acropolis 

i    of  Susa1  in  December  iQOi-January  1902,  a  fitting 

celebration  of  the  centenary  of  that  study  which  has 

done  so  much  for  the  history  of  ancient  civilisation. 

fit  consisted  of  a  stone  of  black  diorite  nearly  eight 

feet  high,  and  was  in  three  fragments,  which  readily 

admitted  of  being  joined  together.     The  upper  part 

bore  a  representation  of  the  sun-god  Samas,  from 

whom  Hammurabi  received  the  laws  with  which  the 

I  rest  of  the  stone  is  covered.     The  sun-god  is  seated 

upon  a  raised  throne.     He  wears  the  well-known 

swathed  head-gear,  and  a  flounced  robe.     Behind 

This  shoulders  rays  spring  out,  and  in  his  right  hand 

the  clasps  a  sceptre,2  the  symbol  of  authority,  and  a 

ib.    4  80-87 ;    and   cp.    Winckler,    Orientalistische  Litteratur-zeitung, 
1903,  col.  28  sqq. 

1  Edited   and   translated    by    Father    Scheil,    Memoir es    de    la 
Dtttgation  en  Perse,  Textes  fclamites-Stmitiques,  vol.  4  (Paris,  1902). 
Independent  translations  in  German  by  Hugo  Winckler  in  Der  Alte 
Orient  (4th   year,   Heft    4),  and    in   English   by  C.   H.  W.    Johns 
(Edinburgh,  1903). 

2  Jeremias  and   Orelli  rather  improbably  take  it  to  be  a  stylus, 
the  symbol  of  wisdom.     Ball  (Light  from  the  East,  p.  156),  in  his 
remarks  on  the  representation  of  Mamas'  on  the  inscription  of  Nabu- 
apla-iddina,  where  the  same  object  recurs,  suggests  that  it  indicates 
the  straight  course  of  the  sun  across  the  heavens. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  5 

wheel  or  ring.  The  king  stands  before  Samas  in 
an  attitude  of  reverent  obedience.  He  is  clothed 
in  a  long  tunic,  which  is  hemmed  in  at  the  waist  and 
hangs  down  in  folds,  and  upon  his  head  he  wears  a 
cap  with  fillet.  His  right  hand  is  at  his  mouth,  his 
left  hand  rests  against  the  waist,  precisely  as  in  the 
familiar  portrait  sculpture  of  the  king  in  the  British 
Museum.1  Like  the  sun-god,  he  wears  the  familiar/ 
artificially  plaited  beard. 

The  appropriateness  of  the  representation  lies  in 
the  fact  that  'the  sun-god  Samas  was  the  god  of  law,2 
whose  children  are  called  "  Justice "  (kettit)  and 
"Right"  (mesaru,  cp.  Heb.  mesanm),  and  Ham- 
murabi elsewhere  calls  himself  the  darling  (mi-gi-ir) 
of  Samas.  It  is  unnecessary,  therefore,  to  suppose 
that  the  seated  figure  is  Hammurabi  himself,  before 
whom  stands  a  man  crying  for  justice,3  and  it  is 
quite  improbable  that  it  is  the  mountain-god  Bel 
who  "  gave  laws  to  men  and  wore  on  his  breast  the 
tablets  of  destiny,"  who  appears  here  as  the  law 
giver.4 

1  No.  22454.     See  the  frontispiece  to  L.  W.   King,  The  Letters 
and  Inscriptions  of  Hammurabi  ( London,  1900),  vol.  3.      This  repre- 
sentation,  which   differs   from   the   above   in   certain   slight   details, 
contains   only  the   upper  half  of  the  king.     A  fragment  of  another 
statue   of   Hammurabi   was  found  at  Susa  by  M.   Morgan  (Textes 
£lqmites-Semitiques,  184;  Paris,  1900). 

2  At  Sippar  justice  was  rendered  at  the  "  gate  (bab)  of  Samas  " 
(Scheil,    Une  Saison  de  fouilles  a  Sippar,   Cairo,  1902  ;  li  p.  26). 
In  the  inscription  of  Nabu-apla-iddina  (Ball,  loc.  «'/.),  Samas  is  called 
"  the  lofty  of  eyes." 

3  Lippert,  in  Die  Nation,  April  4,  1903,  no.  27,  p.  422. 

4  So,  the  writer   in    the   Times,  April  4,  in   his  account  of   this 


6  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

Since  mutilated  portions  of  Hammurabi's  code  of 
laws  have  been  found  in  the  library  of  Asurbanipal, 
and  a  small  duplicate  fragment  of  the  epilogue 
was  actually  discovered  at  Susa  itself,  it  seems 
natural  to  infer  that  copies  of  the  code  were  made 
to  be  set  up  in  various  cities,  Susa  included.1  It  is 
possible,  also,  that  the  original  stone  was  removed 
from  Sippar  by  some  Elamite  conqueror,  just  as 
another  Elamite,  Kutur-Nahunte,  carried  off  the 
image  of  the  goddess  Nana.  At  all  events,  some 
five  columns  of  ~the  stele  have  been  erased,  and  the 
stone  has  been  polished,  apparently  with  the  inten- 
tion of  inscribing  upon  it  a  fresh  inscription,  and  it 
is  suggested  that  the  Elamite  victor  in  question  was 
probably  Sutruk-Nahunte  (towards  noo  B.C.).  No 
name,  however,  is  actually  inscribed,  and  the  ques- 
tion must  therefore  be  left  unsettled. 

There  are  forty-four  columns  of  inscription,  which 
fall  into  three  divisions  :  (i)  Prologue,  (2)  Code,  and 
(3)  Epilogue.  In  the  Prologue2  considerable  space 
is  devoted  to  Hammurabi's  titles  and  to  his  glorious 
and  beneficent  deeds  for  his  country  and  people, 
and  this  portion  of  the  inscription  is  extremely  im- 

code,  associates  Bel  or  Ellu  with  the  Hebrew  El  Shaddai,  evidently 
thinking  of  the  Hebrew  law-giving  upon  Mount  Sinai,  and  the 
doubtful  theory  that  Shaddai  is  to  be  derived  from  the  Ass.  sa^dUj 
"mountain''  (EBi.  "Shaddai,"  §  2). 

1  Pinches  conjectures  that  it  was  for  some  city  which  Hammurabi 
hoped  to  conquer  in  Elam  (Proceedings  of  the  Soc.  of  Biblical  Arche- 
ology, 1902,  p.  302). 

2  The    following    paraphrastic    account    of    the     Prologue    and 
Epilogue  is  based  upon  the  translations  by  Scheil  and  Winckler. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  7 

portant  for  its  numerous  references  to  the  leading 
historical  events  of  his  reign,  and  for  the  mytho- 
logical and  other  interesting  allusions.  It  com- 
mences with  the  statement  that  Ilu,1  the  supreme, 
and  Bel,  the  "lord  of  the  heaven  and  earth"  (be-el 
sa-me-e  u  ir-si-tim),  ruler  of  the  destiny  of  the 
world,  entrusted  to  Marduk  mankind,  and  called 
Hammurabi,  the  god-fearer  (pa-li-ih  i-li-ya-ti\  to 
create  justice  in  the  land,  to  destroy  the  wicked 
and  evil,  that  the  strong  oppress  not  the  weak 
(dan-nu-um  en-sa-am  a-na  la  ha-ba-li-im).  "  Ilu  and 
Bel  called  me  Hammurabi,"  says  the  king,  "the 
shepherd  (ri-i-a-um),  the  elect  of  Bel  to  bring  about 
the  happiness  of  men"  (lit.  "  to  please  the  flesh  of 
men,"  a-na  si-ir  ni-si  tu-ub-bi-im)?  This  is  followed 
by  the  king's  personal  account  of  his  achievements, 
in  the  course  of  which  he  states  that  he  has  enriched 
Ur,  protected  Larsa  (Ellasar,  Gen.  14  i),3  and  en- 
larged Cuthah ;  he  refers  also  to  the  ceremonial 
meals  ofFTnvtu  of  Kes,  and  of  Nin-a-zu,  the  oracles 
(te-ri-tim)  of  Hallab,  to  his  great  offerings  for  the 
"  Temple  of  the  Fifty,"  and  to  the  god  Dagon,  his 
creator  (Da-gan  ba-ni-$u}. 

Hammurabi  states  further  that  he  gave  new  life 

1  Winckler  throughout  replaces  Ilu  by  Anu. 

2  So,  too,  Samsu-iluna,  Hammurabi's  successor,  declares  that  the 
gods  gave  him  the  whole  of  the  world  to  rule,  to  settle  the  land  in 
security  and  to  rule  the  scattered  peoples  in  prosperity  (su-ul-mi-ini}, 
L.  W.  King,   The  Letters  and  Inscriptions  of  Hammurabi,  vol.  3, 
p.  205. 

3  Perhaps  a  reference  to  the  overthrow  of  the  Elamite  dynasty. 
Larsa  was  the  old  Babylonian  city  of  the  sun-god  (EBi.  col.  1281). 


8  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

to  Uruk  by  providing  its  inhabitants  with  richly- 
flowing  water;  he  enlarged  the  agricultural  lands 
(me-ri-es-tim)  of  Dilbat,  granted  pasturage  and 
watering-places  to  Lagas  and  Girsu,  and  fostered 
the  inhabitants  of  Nin-a-zu  in  their  distress.  He, 
the  shepherd  of  men,  who  proclaimed  right  and 
upheld  law,  returned  its  tutelary  deity  (lamassu)  to 
Assur,1  and  caused  the  name  of  Istar  to  dwell  in 
Nineveh.  He,  "  the  suppliant  of  the  great  gods," 
the  descendant  of  Sumula-ilu,  mighty  son  of  Sin- 
mubalit,  concludes  his  Prologue  with  the  words  : 
I"  When  Marduk  sent  me  to  govern  men,  to  sustain 
and  instruct  the  world,  right  and  justice  in  the  land 
I  established,  I  brought  about  the  happiness  of 


men." 


This  is  immediately  followed  by  the  Code  itself, 
which  commences  with  two  laws  relating  to  witch- 
craft (§  i  sg.)t  followed  by  three  dealing  with 
witnesses  and  judges  (§§  3-5).  A  series  of  laws  on 
theft  (§§  6-8),  and  stolen  property  found  in  the  hands 
of  another  (§§  9-13),  leads  up  to  kidnapping  (§  14) 
and  fugitive  slaves  (§§  15-20),  and  ends  with 
burglary  and  brigandage  (§§  21-25).  Another  series 
deals  with  the  duties  and  privileges  of  "  gangers  " 
and  "  constables  "  (§§  26-41).  Next  follow  the 
land-laws,  and  provisions  relating  to  the  cultivation 
of  fields  (§§  42-56),  the  responsibilities  of  herdsmen 
(§  57  *£•)*  and  various  enactments  concerning 
gardeners  (§§  59-65).  This  ends  on  the  foot  of  the 
sixteenth  column.  Five  columns  have  been  erased, 

1  The  earliest  mention  of  the  city. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  {JAMMURABI  9 

probably  by  the  Elamites,  with  the  purpose  already 
mentioned  above  (p.  6),  and  it  is  estimated  that 
thirty-five  sections  have  been  lost.  Elsewhere,1  ^ 
ancient  Babylonian  laws  have  been  recovered  con- 
taining other  laws  relating  to  agriculture  and  to  the 
letting  of  houses,  and  it  has  been  plausibly  con- 
jectured that  they  form  part  of  the  sections  here 
missing.  The  laws  which  commence  again  on  the 
obverse  of  the  monument  deal  with  merchants  and 
their  agents ;  they  are  not  complete,  owing  to  the 
erasure.  The  rights  of  merchant  and  agent  (§§  100 
[mutilated]- 107)  are  followed  by  a  small  series  of 
four  relating  to  wine-merchants  and  the  price  of 
wine  (§§  108-111).  Debt  _and  deposit  are  handled 
in  fifteen  sections  (§§  112-126).  The  laws  coming 
under  the  head  of  family  relations  constitute  a  small 
code  in  themselves  (§§  127-193).  Starting  with 
slander  (§  127)  and  the  marriage  contract  (§  128),  the 
Code  touches  on  adultery,  violation,  and  suspicion  of 
unchastity  (§§  129-132) ;  separation  and  divorce  in  its 
different  aspects  (§§  133-143)  are  closely  linked  with 
the  laws  regulating  the  taking  of  a  second  wife  or  con- 
cubine (§§  144-149).  Three  laws  relate  to  women's 
property  (§§  150-152).  A  small  series  bears  upon 
various  forms  of  unchastity  (§§  153-158),  and  the 
regulations  respecting  the  purchase -price  for  the 
bride  and  her  marriage-portion  (§§  159-164).  The 
laws  of  inheritance  (§§  165-184)  range  over  the 
rights  of  wife,  children,  maidservants  and  slaves 
and  their  children,  widows,  and  a  particular  class 
1  See  p.  3,  n.  i. 


io  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

of  women.  The  family  code  comes  to  an  end 
with  nine  laws  on  adopted  children  (§§  185-193). 
Another  series  is  concerned  with  responsibility  for 
death,  assault,  etc.  (§§  194-214),  and  in  addition  to 
fixing  penalties,  enacts  the  honorarium  to  be  paid 
to  doctors  and  veterinary  surgeons  (§§  215-225).  In 
the  same  series  is  included  the  branding  of  slaves 
(§  226  sg.),  and  the  responsibilities  of  the  builder 
(§§  228-233)  and  boatman  (§§  234-240).  Another 
series  is  more  precisely  restricted  to  agricultural 
life  —  laws  dealing  with  oxen,  their  hire  and 
care,  wages  of  agricultural  labourers  and  artisans, 
and  responsibility  for  loss  (§§  241-274).  Three 
laws  follow  on  with  the  prices  for  hiring  boats 
(§§  275~277)>  and  the  Code  concludes  with  five 
sections  on  the  buying  of  slaves  and  a  ferocious 
penalty  for  the  slave  who  repudiates  his  master 

(§§  278-282).1 

The  Code  is  immediately  followed  by  the  Epi- 
I  logue,  commencing  with  the  words:  "Decrees  of 
justice  (di-na-a-at  mi-sa-ri-im)  which  Hammurabi  the 
Wise  King  established,  for  the  land  a  just  law  and 
a  happy  rule."  The  king  then  proceeds  to  state 
that  he  has  not  neglected  the  people  whom  Bel 
had  granted  to  him,  whose  rule2  Marduk  had 

1  There  are  a  few  examples  of  pentads  (§§  9-13,  21-25,  1 5  4- 158, 
178-182,  278-282)  ;  the  presence  of  decads  is  less  easily  recognisable 
(§§  127-136,  185-194,  195-214  are  all  doubtful).      In  addition  to  the 
Hebrew  Decalogues  (Ex.  34,  20),  groups  of  five  or  ten  laws  can  be 
detected  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  (Ex.  21-23),  in  Deuteronomy, 
and  in  the  Law  of  Holiness  (Lev.  17-26). 

2  Scheil  aptly  "  pastorate  "  (riu}. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  £AMMURABI  u 

entrusted  to  him.  Abodes  of  peace  (as- riju^^m i- 
Jm^he  found  for  them,  he  opened  up  the  narrow 
ways  and  gave  them  light.  Endowed  with  the 
mighty  help  of  Zamama  and  I  star,  with  the  clear 
vision  of  Ea,  with  the  wisdom  of  Marduk,  he  ex- 
terminated the  enemies  of  North  and  South  Baby- 
lonia ;  he  brought  about  happiness  in  the  land,  those 
that  dwelt  at  home  he  caused  to  live  in  security, 
free  from  unrest.  "  The  great  gods  have  chosen 
me,"  he  continues.  "  I  am  the  safety-bringing  shep- 
herd (^3*  mu-sa^l-M-jmt^um},  whose  sceptre  is 
upn^r^sa-ra-at\  ...  on  my  breast  I  cherish  the 
people  of  Sumer  and  Accad,  in  my  protection  I 
have  let  them  rest  in  peace,  in  my  wisdom  (or 
depth)  they  are  concealed,  that  the  strong  may  not 
oppress  the  feeble,  to  give  safety  to  the  orphan  and 
widow ;  in  Babylon  the  city  of  El  and  of  Bel  in 
E-sag-gil,  the  temple  whose  foundations  are  as  firm 
as  the  heaven  and  earth,  for  the  justice  of  the  land, 
for  the  decision  of  law-suits  in  the  country  (pu-ru- 
zi-e  ma-tim  a-na  pa-ra-si-im),  for  the  healing  of 
hurts,1  my  precious  words  I  have  written  upon  my 
stele,  set  up  before  my  image  (salmu)  as  King  of 
Uprightness  (sarri  mi-sa-ri-im)"  The  oppressed 
man  who  has  a  suit  (a-wi-lum  ha-ab-lum  sa  a-wa- 
tum  i-ra-as-su-u)  may  come  before  the  image  of  the 
King  of  Justice,  may  read  the  inscription,  and  hear 
the  precious  words.  The  stele  will  make  clear  unto 
him  his  suit,  he  will  understand  his  cause_ (dinu),  and 

1  Scheil  renders,  "  pour  1'edification  du  faible  "  (ha-ab-lim  su-te-su- 
ri-iiti). 


12  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

his  heart  will  rejoice,  saying :  "  Hammurabi  is  a 
lord  (be-lum)  who  is  literally  a  father  (a-bi-im  wa-li- 
di-imy  to  his  people,  by  the  word  of  Marduk  his 
lord  he  has  created  fear,  the  victory  of  Marduk  in 
north  and  south  has  he  gained,  he  has  pleased  the 
heart  of  Marduk  his  lord,  and  brought  happiness  to 
men  for  ever,  and  the  land  he  has  set  in  order." 
When  he  reads  the  document  (da-ni-tum),  and  prays 
with  all  his  heart  before  "  Marduk  my  lord  and 
Zar-pa-nit  my  lady,"  the  tutelary  deity  and  the  gods 
of  E-sag-gil  will  bring  that  man's  wishes  before 
Marduk  and  Zar-pa-nit.  Moreover,  continues 
Hammurabi,  every  king  that  rules  in  the  land  shall 
observe  the  "  sentences  of  justice  "  (a-wa-a-at  mi-sa- 
ri-im)  which  are  written  upon  the  stele,  the  laws  of 
the  land  (pu-ru-zi-e  Mama)  which  he  has  enacted 
shall  he  not  alter,  nor  injure  the  monument.  If 
such  a  king  would  rule  wisely  and  govern  the  land 
well,  let  him  observe  the  Code,  and  act  according  to 
it,  to  exterminate  the  wicked  and  evil-doers,  and  to 
bring  happiness  upon  the  people. 

Then    the    king    pronounces    a    blessing    upon 
|those  who  observe  the  laws,  and  utters  a  series  of 

1  The  fact  that  abu,  "father,"  is  followed  by  ivalidim,  "progenitor,3' 
(cp.  Heb.  yoled  in  Gen.  4  18)  is  particularly  interesting,  since  it  shows 
that  the  word  in  Babylonian,  as  also  in  the  other  Semitic  languages, 
originally  meant  something  other  than  procreator,  and  that  its  use  as 
a  term  of  relationship,  "  husband,"  "  father,"  is  relatively  later  (see 
Robertson  Smith,  Kinship  and  Marriage  in  Early  Arabia]®  p.  140 
sq.}.  To  this  it  may  be  added  that  abu,  "  husband,"  as  in  Jerem.  3  4, 
has  been  shewn  to  be  Babylonian  usage  also  by  Barton,  Semitic 
Origins,  p.  68,  n.  5. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  13 

denunciations  against  the  disobedient.  "  I  am  ' 
Hammurabi,  King  of  Justice,  to  whom  Samas  has  { 
entrusted  judgment  (rectitude,  ki-na-tim)"  If 
that  man  observe  the  sentences  engraved  upon  the 
stele,  and  acts  in  accordance  with  them,  may  Samas 
make  his  sceptre  to  endure  long,  to  lead  his  subjects 
in  righteousness  (mi-sa-ri-im).  But  if  that  man 
pays  no  heed  to  them,  despises  my  curse,  fears  not 
the  curse  of  God  (ir-ri-it  i-li),  annuls  my  law  (di-in), 
alters  my  sentences,  erases  my  name  and  engraves 
his  thereon,  or  through  fear  of  the  curses  has 
charged  another  to  do  thus,  this  man,  whether  king, 
lord,  patesi,1  or  man  of  repute,2  may  the  Great  God 
(ilu  ra-bu-um),  the  Father  of  the  Gods,  remove  the 
splendour  of  his  kingdom,  break  his  sceptre,  curse 
his  fate.  May  Bel,  the  lord,  the  decider  of  destiny 
(mu-si-im  si-ma-tim\  whose  command  is  unalterable, 
bring  sedition,  years  of  sighing,  days  few  in  number, 
years  of  hunger,  darkness  without  light ;  may  he 
appoint  for  him  as  his  fate  a  death  which  he  shall 
see  with  his  own  eyes ;  the  ruin  of  his  city,  the  dis- 
persion of  his  subjects,  the  removal  of  his  rule,  and 
the  disappearance  of  his  name  and  memory  (sum-$u 
u  zi-kir-su),  may  he  decree.  May  Belti,  the  great 
mother,  annul  his  projects  before  Bel  in  the  Place 
of  Justice  and  Law,  to  ruin  his  country,  to  destroy 
his  subjects,  to  pour  out  his  life  like  water. 
Similarly,  Ea,  the  messenger  of  the  gods,  the  all- 
knowing,  is  invoked  to  deprive  that  king  of  under- 

1  "Ruler"  ;  see  King,  EBi.  "Babylonia,"  §  43. 
2  Winckler,  "  or  man,  whoever  he  may  be." 


14  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

standing  and  wisdom,  to  lead  him  into  oblivion,  to 
close  up  the  source  of  the  rivers,  and  not  to  cause 
the  earth  to  produce  corn,  "  the  life  of  men."  Next, 
Samas,  "the  great  judge  of  heaven  and  earth,"  is 
called  upon  to  destroy  his  kingdom,  to  send  him  in 
his  dreams  (i-na  bi-ri-sit)  evil  premonitions  of  the 
decay  of  his  throne,  to  hinder  his  martial  successes ; 
"from  above,  among  the  living,  may  he  snatch  him 
away,  and  deprive  his  departed  shades  of  water." 
Sin,  "the  lord  of  the  heavens,"  the  divine  creator 
(ilu  ba-ni-i\  whose  sickle  shines  among  the  gods,  is 
besought  to  remove  that  king's  tiara  and  royal 
throne,  to  make  him  live  out  the  days,  months,  and 
years  of  his  rule  in  sighs  and  tears,  to  make  burden- 
some the  cares  of  sovereignty,  to  inflict  upon  him  a 
life  that  is  like  unto  death.  May  Adad,  "  the  lord 
of  abundance,"  continues  Hammurabi,  keep  back  the 
rain  in  heaven,  the  swelling  of  the  waters  (mi-lam 
i-na  na-ak-bi-im),  destroy  his  land  with  famine  and 
want,  thunder  upon  his  city,  and  make  his  land  a 
heap  of  tells.  May  Zamama,  "  the  great  warrior," 
break  his  weapons  over  his  battle-field,  turn  his  day 
into  .night,  and  cause  his  enemy  to  triumph  over 
him.  May  Istar,  "the  lady  of  battle  and  combat," 
curse  his  kingdom,  and  turn  his  good  into  evil ;  on 
the  field  of  battle  may  she  break  his  weapons,  and 
destroy  his  warriors  ;  may  she  give  him  captive  into 
the  hand  of  his  enemy.  Nergal,  "the  powerful 
among  the  gods,"  is  invoked  to  burn  that  king's 
subjects,  to  cut  off  his  limbs,  to  break  him  as  an 
image  of  clay  (sa-lam  di-di-im).  Nintu,  "the 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  15 

august  mother  of  the  lands,"  the  child-bearing 
mother  (ummu  ba-ni-ti),  is  invoked  to  deprive  him 
of  son  and  progeny  (sir  a-wi-lu-tim)  upon  earth,  to 
leave  him  no  name  (su-ma-am).  Nin-Karak  is 
invoked  to  inflict  upon  him  a  severe  illness  (mur-sa- 
am  kab-tam),  an  evil  disease  (asakkam  li-im-nam),  a 
dangerous  wound  (zi-im-ma-ammar-sa-am)  which 
cannot  be  healed,  of  the  character  of  which  the 
physician  (a-zu)  is  ignorant,  which  cannot  be 
bandaged,  until  at  last  she  destroys  his  life.  In 
conclusion,  may  the  great  gods  of  heaven  and  earth, 
all  the  Anunnaki,1  curse  the  outskirts  of  the  temple, 
the  walls  of  this  E-barra,2  his  rule,  his'  land,  his 
warriors,  his  subjects,  and  his  army,  and  may  Bel 
with  an  irrevocable  curse  execrate  him,  immediately 
assail  him. 

With  this  final  denunciation  the  inscription  ends. 
The   code    of    laws,    therefore,    is   preceded   by   a 
honorific  introduction,  and  is  followed  by  a  single 
invocation  of  blessings  upon  the  man  who  keeps 
the  laws,  and  by  a  series  of  denunciations  upon  him 
who  disregards  them.      Like  the  Deuteronomic  law-} 
book  (Deut.  5-26,  28),  it  concludes  with  a  nuyiber  \ 
of    curses,    considerably    longer    than    the    corre- 
sponding blessings.3 

The  sentiments  which   Hammurabi   utters,   and 

1  The  Anunnaki,  the  evil  spirits  of  the  deep,  as  opposed  to  the 
Igigi,  or  spirits  of  the  heaven. 

2  According  to  Winckler,   the  sun-temple  of  Sippar,  where  the 
stele  stood. 

3  Hammurabi's  injunction  against  altering  the  laws  has  Deutero- 
nomic parallels  also  (Deut.  4  2,  1 2  32). 


i6  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

the  blessings  and  cursings  accompanying  the  Code, 
do  not  stand  alone  in  Babylonian  literature.  We 
may  compare  the  warnings  contained  in  a  tablet 
from  the  library  of  Asurbanipal,1  wherein  the  king 
who  gives  heed  to  the  commands  of  Ea  will  be 
endowed  with  knowledge  and  discernment,  whereas 
if  he  acts  contrary  to  them,  Ea  "  the  king  of  destinies 
shall  change  his  destiny,  and  shall  visit  him  with 
misfortune."  If  he  ignores  justice  his  land  shall  be 
overthrown,  if  he  pays  no  heed  to  his  nobles  his 
days  shall  not  be  long,  if  he  ignores  his  wise  men 
his  land  shall  revolt.  "  If  he  treats  a  man  of 
Sippar  with  injustice  and  gives  a  harsh  decision, 
Samas,  the  judge  of  heaven  and  earth,  shall  give 
a  harsh  decision  in  his  land,  and  shall  appoint  a  just 
prince  and  a  just  judge  in  place  of  injustice."  If  he 
acts  unjustly  towards  the  men  of  Nippur,  Bel  shall 
bring  a  foreign  foe  against  him  and  overthrow  his 
army.  If  he  allows  himself  to  be  bribed  by  the  men 
of  Babylon,  Marduk  shall  bring  a  foe  and  give  his 
goods  and  possessions  to  his  enemy.  "  And  the  men 
of  Nippur,  Sippar,  or  Babylon  who  do  these  things 
shall  be  cast  into  prison,"  concludes  the  tablet.2 

It  fortunately  happens  that  in  addition  to  this 
i  Code  we  are  in  possession  of  a  number  of  con- 
si  temporary  records  in  the  shape  of  letters,  business 

1  For  the  full  text  see  King,  Babylonian  Religion  (London,  1899), 
p.  217. 

2  In  the  inscription  of  Nabu-apla-iddina  it  is  said  that  the  sun-god 
has  been  angry  with  the  land  because  "  his  laws  were  forgotten  " 
(Ball,  Light  from  the  East,  p.  156). 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  gAMMURABI  17 

documents,  and  contract -tablets,  which  throw  a 
^welcome  light  upon  the  history  of  Hammurabi 
and  his  dynasty.1  He  was  the  sixth  king  of  a 
dynasty  founded  by  Sumu-abi  about  the  middle  of 
the  third  millennium  B.C.,  and  probably  ascended^ 
the  throne  about  2285  B.C.2  Under  his  prede- 
cessors, Babylonia  had  been  gradually  freeing 
herself  from  the  Elamite  yoke,  and  by  the  total 
defeat  of  Elam — whose  king,  Eri-aku  of  Larsa,  has 
been  identified  with  Arioch  (Gen.  14  19)® — he  com- 
pleted the  deliverance  of  his  country,  and  was  able 
to  amalgamate  Northern  and  Southern  Babylonia 
into  one  state,  and  even  extend  his  sway  as  far 
west  as  Canaan.4  From  the  very  commencement^ 
of  his  reign  Hammurabi  devoted  himself  to  the 
internal  improvement  of  his  country,  and  when 
the  Babylonian  chronicle  says  of  his  second  year 
that  it  was  "  the  year  in  which  Hammurabi 
(established)  the  heart  of  the  land  in  righteous- 
ness," 5  we  may  see  in  this  the  beginning  of  those 
reforms  which  ultimately  ended  in  the  promulgation 
of  the  Code  which  has  recently  been  discovered. 
Examples  of  his  practical  efforts  on  behalf  of  the 
welfare  of  his  people  will  come  under  consideration 

1  See    L.   W.    King,   Letters   of  Hammurabi  (vol.    3,    English 
translation,  London,  1900);  id.  EBi.  art.  "Babylonia,"  §  53. 

2  So,   e.g.,   King,   C.   H.   W.   Johns,  but   Assyriologists  are  not 
unanimous,  and  the  date  in  question  ranges  from  2394  (Oppert)  to 
1947  (Hommel). 

3  On  this  question,  see  the  criticisms  by  Tiele  and  Kosters  in 
EBi.  col.  733  sq. 

4  See  below,  chap.  2,  p.  35.  5  King,  Letters,  8229. 

2 


1 8  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  i 

in  the  course  of  the  following  pages,  and  'may  serve 
as  illuminating  specimens  of  the  manner  in  which 
justice  was  administered  in  Babylonia  in  the 
twenty-third  century  before  Christ. 

But  this  king  has  other  claims  which  we  cannot 
ignore.  The  generally  accepted  identification  of  the 
name  Hammurabi  with  that  of  Amraphel,  king  of 
Shinar  (Gen.  14  i,  9),  the  tradition  that ...  Abraham 
came  from  Ur  of  the  Chaldeans,  a  city  which  is 
actually  mentioned  in  the  Prologue  to  the  Code, 
are  interesting  links  in  themselves,  but  when  it  is 
added  that  Hammurabi  extended  his  sway  over 
Canaan,  that  the  dynasty  to  which  he  belonged  was 
of  foreign — perhaps  Canaanite — origin,  and  that 
monotheistic  ideals  and  the  conception  of  the  Divine 
Essence  as  a  unity  have  been  claimed  for  this 
dynasty,  it  is  obvious  that  the  value  of  the  Code  is 
immeasurably  enhanced,  and  at  first  sight  it  would 
appear  almost  incredible  that  it  should  not  have 
fundamentally  influenced  the  laws  and  institutions 
not  only  of  the  Canaanites,  but  of  the  later  invading 
children  of  Israel.1 

Accordingly,  the  question  of  the  origin  of  the 
dynasty  of  Hammurabi  becomes  one  of  peculiar 

1  So  Delitzsch,  after  a  discussion   of  the  old   Babylonian   laws 

which    had    previously   been    known   (p.    3    above),    concludes    that 

p  Babylonian  law  and  justice  must  have   influenced  to  the   deepest 

/   extent  the  legal  principles  and  procedure  of  the  immigrating  Hebrew 

Ljiomads,  and  he  expresses  the  hope  that  in  the  course  of  time,  as  the 

Babylonian    laws    become   more   completely  known,   light    may  be 

thrown  upon  the  origin  and  development  of  the  Mosaic  law- giving 

/\     (Beitr.  2.  Assyr.  4  87).     These  words,  it  is  interesting  to  remember, 

were  written  before  the  Code  was  discovered. 


CHAP,  i  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  19 


importance  for  the  study  of  the  Code.  If  it  could 
be  proved  that  the  dynasty  was  North  Semitic,  and 
therefore  of  the  same  stock  as  the  later  Phoenicians, 
Moabites,  and  Israelites,  might  it  not  be  plausible 
to  suppose  that  the  Code  was  based  upon  legal 
institutions  which  were  familiar  to  those  peoples? 
But  the  question  in  the  present  state  of  knowledge 
cannot  be  placed  beyond  dispute,  and  there  are 
Assyriologists,  whose  opinion  must  carry  great 
weight,  who  have  argued  in  favour  of  an  Arabian; 
origin.  This,  in  like  manner,  if  it  could  be  con- 
clusively maintained,  would  be  of  the  utmost  interest 
for  our  study.  If  the  kings  of  the  first  Babylonian 
dynasty  came  from  Arabia,  would  it  not  be  reason- 
able to  infer  that  the  legal  elements  in  the  Code 
were  specifically  Arabian  ? — one  immediately  re- 
calls the  important  part  played  by  (North)  Arabia 
in  the  early  history  of  the  Israelites,  the  traditions 
of  the  wanderings  in  the  wilderness,  and  tthe  influ- 
ence of  the  Midianite  Jethro  on  Moses'  work,  which 
is  described  in  the  most  explicit  manner  by  the 
Elohist  in  Exod.  18.  Apart  from  these  questions, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  inquire  also  whether  Israel 
was  as  susceptible  to  outside  influence  as  is  fre- 
quently assumed,  and  Iwe  must  also  bear  in  mind 
that  Jewish  law  was  the  result,  not  of  a  single 
promulgation  like  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  but  of 
a  gradual  development.  /  The  preliminary  problems 
therefore,  are  intimately  connected  not  only  with 
the  Code  itself,  but  with  the  whole  question  of  the 
relation  of  the  Code  to  Israelite  law. 


mm 


CHAPTER   II 

BABYLONIA    AND    ISRAEL 

Hammurabi's  dynasty  of  foreign  origin — The  arguments — Linguistic 
evidence  doubtful — Alleged  traces  of  monotheism — Theory  of 
the  Arabian  origin  of  the  dynasty — Ancient  Arabian  culture  and 
its  antiquity — Babylonian  influence  over  Canaan — General  con- 
siderations— Importance  of  the  Code  as  a  test — Legal  literature 
in  Babylonia  contrasted  with  the  Mosaic  laws — Development  of 
Israelite  law. 

ASSYRIOLOGISTS  have  for  some  years  past  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  dynasty  to  which  Ham- 
murabi belonged  was  not  indigenous,1  and  have 
associated  it  with  one  of  those  waves  of  immigra- 
tion which  have  recurred  from  time  to  time  in  the 
history  of  the  Semites.  Although  the  evidence  is 
linguistic — and  linguistic  arguments,  taken  by  them- 
selves, are  extremely  precarious — it  is  striking 
enough  to  deserve  attention,  and  may  be  briefly 
recapitulated  here.  The  evidence  in  question  is 

1  Pognon,  Journal  Asiatique,  8th  ser.,  11543  sqq.  (1888);  Sayce, 
Records  of  the  Past,  2nd  ser.,  3  ix.-xii.  ;  Hommel,  Ancient  Hebrew 
Tradition,  pp.  89  sqq.  ;  and  most  recently,  Delitzsch,  Babel  and  Bible, 
pp.  123-125.  An  exception,  however,  must  be  made  in  favour  of 
Jensen,  who  uncompromisingly  denies  its  foreign  origin,  Zeit.  f. 
Assyr.  10342,  n.  i  ;  die  Christliche  Welt,  May  22,  1902,  col.  491. 

20 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  21 

chiefly  derived  from  a  number  of  proper  names 
which,  it  is  agreed,  are  not  of  the  pure  Babylonian/ 
type.  Thus,  even  the  Babylonian  scribes  regarded  ' 
the  name  Hammurabi  as  foreign,  and  glossed  it  by 
Kimta-rapastum,  "  wide-extended  family,"  obviously 
regarding  the  name  (which  is  sometimes  written 
Ammurabi)  as  a  compound,  not  of  ham,  "  father-in- 
law,"  but  of  famm,  with  the  meaning  "  family";  an 
interpretation  which  may  be  claimed  also  for  the 
Hebrew  and  Arabic  am(m).1  In  like  manner,  they 
find  it  necessary  to  explain  the  name  Ammi-saduga, 
one  of  Hammurabi's  successors,  by  Kimtum-kettum, 
"just  or  righteous  family." 

Further,  in  names  of  this  dynasty,  s  is  used 
where  the  older  Babylonian  employs  s,  notably  in; 
Samsu-iluna  as  contrasted  with  Samsu.  The 
termination  -na  in  the  above  name,  which  is  in- 
terpreted "  Samas  our  god,"  is  quite  distinct  from 
the  ordinary  Babylonian  -ni.  The  imperfect,  which 
usually  takes  the  form  imlik,  appears  as  iamlik  in 
lamlik-ilu,  larbi-ilu,  etc.  There  are,  besides,  a 
number  of  minor  details,  for  an  account  of  which 
reference  may  be  made  to  the  recent  discussion  by 
Ranke,2  who  is  on  the  side  of  Hommel,  Sayce,  and 
A.  Jeremias,  in  favouring  the  Arabian  origin  of  the 

1  See   Gray,   EBi.   col.    139,   and   Robertson   Smith,  Kinship]® 
p.  72  (properly  an  aggregate  or  community).     The  use  of  h  for  the 
guttural  *ain  is  a  familiar  feature  in   the  Amarna  Tablets  (zuruht 
"  arm,"  Heb.  zeroa  ;  ha-pa-ru,  "  dust,"  Heb.  *aphar,  etc.),  and  recurs 
in  the  well-known  Bit  Humri,  "house  of  Omri." 

2  Die  Personennamen  in  den  Urkunden  der  Hammurabidynastie 
(Munich,  1902). 


22  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

dynasty.  But  Winckler  and  Delitzsch,  who  are 
equally  convinced  that  it  was  not  indigenous,  have 
arrived  at  a  different  conclusion.  "  Linguistic  and 

\  historical  considerations,"  says  the  latter,  "  combine 
to  make  it  more  than  probable  that  these  immigrant 

;  Semites  belonged  to  the  Northern  Semites,  more 
precisely  to  the  linguistically  so-called  '  Canaanites ' 
(i.e.  the  Phoenicians,  Moabites,  Hebrews,  etc.)."1 
And  whilst  Hommel  points  out  that  Ammi-saduga 
is  identical  with  the  old  Arabian  Ammi-saduka 
(HaleVy,  535),  Delitzsch  remarks  that  zadug  (another 
form  of  the  second  element)  "may  point  to  a 
4  Canaanite '  dialect,  both  lexically  .  .  .  and  pho- 
netically." 2  The  suffix  -nay  to  which  reference  has 
already  been  made,  is  no  proof  of  Arabian  origin, 
since  not  only  is  it  also  Aramaic  (-no),  but  Delitzsch 
points  out  that  "it  is  at  least  equally  probable  that 
iluna  represents  an  adjective." 

Arguments  founded  upon  hypothetical  interpre- 
tations of  proper  names  can  scarcely  pass  muster, 
and  it  is  therefore  unsafe  to  find  traces  of  Arabic 
either  in  the  second  element  in  Ammi-satana,  which 
is  explained  from  the  Arabic  sadd,  "mountain,"3  or 
in  the  particle  pa  in  Pa-la-samas,  which,  according 


1  Delitzsch,   op.   tit.   p.    124.       It   is   "Canaanite"   because    the 
analogies   are   found   at    their   best    upon    "  Canaanite "    soil.      A. 
Jeremias  suggests  "  Amorite  "  as  a  preferable  term  (Im  Kampfe  um 
Babel  und  BibelJ®  p.  8  sq.\ 

2  Sa-du-uk,  in  the  sense  of  '  innocent,"  is  used  by  Abd-hiba  of 
Jerusalem  in  the  Amarna  Tablets  (KB  5  180,  1.  32). 

3  Hommel,  Anc.  Heb.  Trad.  p.  109. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  23 

to  Hommel,1  means  "  Is  it  not  then  Samas  ?  "  Even 
if  the  interpretation  were  correct,  pa  is  by  no  means 
necessarily  the  Arabic  fa,  since  it  is  well  known  that 
it  appears  several  times  in  the  old  Aramaic  inscrip- 
tions from  Z^jjlli  in  N^rth  Syria.  The  nominal 
form  maful  in  the  names  Maknubi-ilu,  Makhnuzu, 
is  certainly  common  in  Arabic,  but  though  rare  in 
Hebrew,  it  is  not  unfamilar  in  Aramaic.  Arabian 
influence  has  also  been  claimed  for  the  name 
Akbaru  (afal  form),  but  it  lies  close  at  hand  to 
compare  the  Hebrew  'akbor,  "  mouse."  Passing 
over  the  isolated  examples  of  mimmation  which  are 
claimed  by  Ranke,2  we  may  note  that  the  imperfect 
form  iamlik,  though  it  certainly  presupposes  a 
Semitic  race  distinct  from  the  Babylonian,  is  not 
necessarily  Arabic,  since  the  earliest  form  of  the 
preformative  in  North  Semitic  was  originally  ya-, 
and  probably  did  not  pass  over  into  j/e-  until  a  com- 
paratively late  period.3  Finally,  the  element  Sumu 
in  Sumu-abi,  etc.,  although  explained  to  mean  "his 

1  Op.  cit.  p.  99,  n.  2. 

2  Op.  cit.  p.  31,  Samas  ba-ni-im  (CT  6  23-442).     For  instances  of 
other  Arabisms  reference  may  be  made  to  the  notes  on  KB  3  i,  p.  1 1 1, 
col.    i,   1.  21  sq.  ;    p.    115,  col.   4,  1.   9.      It  may  be  noticed  that 
Delitzsch  recognises  mimmation  in  the  name  la-u-um-ilu  (JBabel  and 
Bible,  p.  135). 

3  The  Septuagint  transliterates  proper  names  of  this  form  by  ta-, 
ie-,  and  i-  (see  EBi.  s.w.  Ibhar,  Ibleam,  Imna,  Imnah,  Irijah,  Iron, 
Ishvah,  etc.).     The  thinning  of  a  to  i  in  the  Hebrew  names  Miriam, 
Gilead,  and  Samson   is  later  than  the  Septuagint.     Jerome,  even, 
writes  machthab  for  the   Hebrew  miktab^  and   magras  for  migras 
(Wright,  Comp.   Gram,  of  Sem.  Lang.  pp.  78-80,   182;    P.   Kahle, 
Massoret.  Text.  d.  Alien  Test.,  Leipzig,  1902;  p.  69  sq.\ 


24  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  11 

name  "  (sum-kit),  can  scarcely  be  claimed  as  specifi- 
cally Arabic,  since  in  the  oldest  Arabian  inscriptions 
—the  Minean — the  form  would  be  Sum-su,  and 
Hommel  himself,  who  recognises  this  difficulty,  is 
forced  to  suppose  that  the  Minean  form  of  the 
suffix,  with  su  as  contrasted  with  hu  in  the  later 
(Sabean)  inscriptions  and  in  Arabic,  was  in  its  turn 
due  to  Babylonian  influence.1  The  discussion  is 
further  complicated  by  the  fact  that  the  linguistic 
phenomena  which  characterise  the  names  of  the 
dynasty  are  also  to  be  found  upon  a  number  of  the 
Assyrian  contract-tablets  from  Cappadocia,  which, 
though  of  extremely  uncertain  age  and  origin,  are 
necessarily  assigned  by  Hommel  to  the  age  of 
Hammurabi.2 

The  truth  is,  we  know  too  little  of  the  earlier 
A  history  of  the  languages  of  Canaan  and  Arabia  in 
I  the  time  of  Hammurabi.  At  that  remote  period 
(about  2250  B.C.),  to  quote  Bevan,  "  Semitic 
languages  may  have  been  spoken  of  which  we 
know  nothing.  Words  and  forms  which  we  are 
accustomed  to  regard  as  characteristically  Arabic 
may  then  have  existed  in  no  Semitic  language,  or 
may  have  been  common  to  all  Semites.  Even 
with  regard  to  a  much  later  period,  our  linguistic 
information  is  extremely  imperfect ;  whether,  for 

1  Op.  tit*  pp.  99,  103.     Under  these  circumstances,  the  fact  that 
the   Minean   forms    the    causative    conjugation   with   s,    whilst    the 
Sabean  uses  the  h  (as  in  "  Canaanite  "  and  early  Aramaic),  should 
also  for  consistency's  sake  be  derived  from  the  Babylonian  s. 

2  Hommel,  op.  cit.  p.  142  sq. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  25 

instance,  the  language  of  the  Midianites,  the 
Edomites,  or  the  Amalekites,  in  the  time  of  David, 
was  more  nearly  akin  to  Hebrew  or  to  Arabic  is 
a  matter  of  pure  conjecture.  Recent  discoveries 
have  repeatedly  shown  the  danger  of  dogmatising 
on  these  questions.  Thus,  for  example,  we  are 
now  aware  that  a  certain  reflexive  verbal  form, 
which  scholars  once  considered  peculiar  to  Arabic, 
was  used  by  the  Moabites  in  the  ninth  century  B.C. 
If  this  were  all  that  we  knew  of  the  Moabite 
language,  we  might  conclude  that  it  was  a  dialect  of 
Arabic,1  but  the  inscription  of  King  Mesha'  proves 
that  in  general  it  closely  resembled  biblical  Hebrew. 
Again,  the  Zenjirli  inscriptions  have  shewn  that, 
about  the  same  period,  there  existed  in  the  extreme 
north  of  Syria  a  dialect  which  combined  certain 
features  hitherto  supposed  to  be  specifically  Hebrew 
with  other  features  hitherto  supposed  to  be  specifi- 
cally Aramaic."2  We  do  not  know  with  certainty 
how  Moabite,  Phoenician,  or  biblical  Hebrew  was 
pronounced.  The  linguistic  test  for  these  names 
must  therefore  be  given  up. 

Nor  is  the  evidence  derived  from  theophorous 
names  free  from  ambiguity.     Winckler,  commenting^ 
upon  the  reference  to  Dagon  in  the  Prologue  to  • 
Hammurabi's   Code,  observes  that    Dagon   is  the 

1  (Or,  since  the  form  is  also  found  in  Assyria,  it  might  have  been 
inferred  that  it  was  an  Assyrian  dialect.) 

2  A.  A.   Bevan,   Critical  Review,  October   1897,  p.  412.      One 
may  observe  also  the  forms  taken  by  Canaanite  words  which  appear 
transliterated  in  the  Assyrian  and  Egyptian  inscriptions. 


26  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

Canaanite  name  of  the  deity  who  is  essentially  the 
same  with  Bel,  and  that  Hammurabi  is  here  speaking 
cnjite  as  a  "  Canaanite."  On  the  other  hand,  the 
prominence  ascribed  to  the  moon-god_Sin  in  the 
same  Prologue  appears  to  Joh.  Jeremias1  to  point 
to  Arabia,  where  the  moon -cult  seems  to  have 
flourished  from  an  early  period.  Among  other 
divine  names  in  this  dynasty  Ranke2  notes  the 
"new  moon"  (Hilal)  in  Elali-wakar  and  Arad-elali, 
the  Minean  moon-god  Wadd  in  Ahi-wadum  and 
Samas-tabbi-wadi,  the  goddess  'Anath  in  Bunu- 
Anati,  and  Yahu  (Yah we)  in  la-u-um-ilu,  la-ve-ilu, 
la-a'-ve-ilu.  That  the  Israelite,  perhaps  better 
Kenite,  divine  name  Yahwe  was  current  in  Baby- 
lonia at  the  close  of  the  third  millennium  is  no  new 
suggestion,  and  has  so  far  failed  to  meet  with 
general  acceptance.  Even  granted  that  the  read- 
ings are  correct — and  it  is  only  right  to  notice  that 
they  have  been  questioned  by  Halevy,  Bezold,  and 
Zimmern 3 — the  result  is  not  helpful  for  the  question 
under  discussion.  If  the  names  mean  "  la-u  is 
God,"  it  is  still  questionable  whether  la-u  is  the 
same  as  Yahwe.4  This  would  require  the  assump- 
tion that  Yahu  or  Yah  was  an  earlier  form  and  not 


1  Moses  and  Hammurabi,  p.  7,  n.  2. 

2  Op.  cit.  p.  51  ;  cp.  Hommel,  op.  cit.  p.  116. 

8  The  subject  has  been  most  recently  discussed  by  Delitzsch 
(Babel  and  Bible,  pp.  133-142)  and  Zimmern  (Die  Keilinschriften 
und  das  Alte  Testament^  p.  467  sq.}. 

4  EBi.  col.  3322,  n.  3.  It  is  not  even  certain,  for  example, 
that  the  name  Joel  means  "  Yahwe  is  God." 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  27 

an   abbreviation    of    Yahwe,    and    Hommel,1    who 
adopts    this    unusual    view,    identifies    it    with    an. 
Arabian  and   Babylonian   Ai  or  Ya,  whose  name,! 
according  to  Delitzsch,2  on  the  other  hand,  cannot) 
be   proved    to    exist    in    Babylonian    literature.     A 
solution  of  the  problem  would  be  to  suppose  that 
Yahwe  has  been  modified  from  an  originally  distinct 
divine  name  Yahu,  but  the  evidence  at  present  is 
far  too  scanty  to  build  upon.3     At  all  events,  the 
three    Babylonian    names    are    the    slenderest    of 
supports  for  the  theory  that  monotheism  prevailed 
in  this  dynasty. 

Nor  is  the  theory  strengthened  by  reference  to 
the  personal  names  compounded  with  il,  which  are 
particularly  common  during  the  period  of  the  first 
Babylonian  dynasty,  and  led  Delitzsch  to  argue 
that  these  "  North  Semitic  tribes  .  .  .  thought  of 
and  worshipped  God  as  a  single  spiritual  being," 
and  were  in  possession  of  "religious  ideas  which 
differed  from  the  indigenous  polytheistic  mode  of 


1  Anc.  Heb.    Trad.  p.   115;  Explorations  in  Bible  Lands  (ed. 
Hilprecht),  p.  746. 

2  Op.  cit.  p.  138. 

3  The  meaning  of  the  name  Yahwe  is  disputed.      Against  the 
view  that  it  is  to  be  connected  with  "  to  be,"  it  has  been  objected 
the  Phoenician  inscriptions  use  kan,  not  hayah.     In  this  connection 
it  is  interesting  to  find  both  words  in  a  letter  from  the  king  of  Tyre 
(Amarna  Tablets,  149  35-38)  :  "  If  my  lord  the  king  says  to  me,  *  Be 
(ku-na)  at  the  disposal  of  my  deputy,'  the  servant  says  to  his  lord, 
'I  will  be'  (ta-a-ia-ia}"     The  latter,  it  will  be  noticed,  is  written 
with  a  medial  y,  i.e.  hayah^  and  not  the  earlier  form  hawah  pre- 
supposed by  some  scholars. 


28  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

|  thought  in  Babylonia." l  Such  compound  names 
also  occur  frequently  in  the  old  Arabian  inscriptions, 
and  on  the  strength  of  them  Hommel,  several 
years  previously,  had  inferred  that  these  pre- 
Christian — almost  prehistoric — .Arabs  were  mono- 
theists.2  Following  this  line  of  reasoning,  it  would 
be  equally  plausible  to  argue  that  such  names  as 
Theodores,  Theodotos,  Theophilos,  and  others 
proved  that  the  Greeks  were  monotheists.  Similar 
compounds  of  the  word  for  "  God "  are  found 
among  the  Aramaeans  and  Phoenicians,  and  cannot 
be  claimed  to  represent  any  other  than  the  existence 
of  specified  local  or  tribal  gods.  Henotheism  is  a 
long  way  removed  from  monotheism  ;  the  road  to  it 
"  lay  through  a  long  development  in  which  tribes 
were  welded  into  nations  and  the  deities  were 
formed  into  polytheistic  pantheons."  3 

It  must  be  mentioned  that  other  indications  of 
tendencies  towards  monotheism  have  been  brought 
forward,  and  a  tablet — of  the  New  Babylonian 
period  certainly — is  quoted  where  Marduk  is 
identified  with  the  highest  of  the  deities  in  the 
Babylonian  pantheon.4  But  from  what  we  read  in 

1  Delitzsch,  Babel  and  Bible,  pp.  129-133. 

2  Hommel,  Anc.  Heb.  Trad.  pp.  82-84. 

8  Barton,  Semitic  Origins,  p.  321  ;  cp.  Robertson  Smith,  Rel. 
Sem.(z)  p.  39;  Bevan,  Critical  Review,  October  1897,  p.  413  sq.; 
Gunkel,  Israel  und  Babylonien  (Gottingen,  1903),  p.  29. 

4  Pinches,  The  Old  Testament  in  the  Light  of  the  Historical  Records 
of  Assyria  and  Babylonia  (1902),  pp.  58-60,  160  sq. ;  Delitzsch, 
op.  cit.  pp.  67-72,  132  sq.,  143  sq.,  199  sqq. ;  A.  Jeremias,  Im 
Kampfe  um  Babel  und  Bibel,^  pp.  12-16. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  29 

some  of  the  more  elevated  writings  of  the  Baby- 
lonians such  syncretism  is  not  unexpected.  The 
advanced  conceptions  which  meet  us  now  and  again 
are  not  unworthy  of  a  Hebrew  prophet;  they  breathe 
the  loftiest  ideals  and  are  inspired  with  the  sub- 
limest  postulates.1  But  this  is  no  argument  that  ] 
Israel's  monotheism  or  the  ideals  of  the  prophets 
took  their  rise  upon  Babylonian  soil,  and  Hommel 
has  reasonably  objected  that  the  dynasty,  if! 
"  Canaanite,"  left  no  traces  of  its  monotheism  in 
Canaan  itself.  Tendencies  towards  monotheism 
are  found  in  early  Arabia  before  Islam,2  and  are 
not  confined  to  the  Semitic  field,  but  they  do  not 
admit  of  being  placed  upon  the  same  plane  with  the 
Israelite  conceptions  ;  they  are  exceptional  growths, 
and  the  speculations  of  a  few  of  the  more  noble 
minds.  "  The  sublimity  which  appears  in  Israel," 
to  quote  from  a  recent  able  discussion  of  Semitic 
religions,  "  is  that  of  a  practical  monotheism  ac- 
cepted by  the  whole  nation — men,  women,  and 
children  ;  the  loftiest  thoughts  of  God  applied  to 
daily  duties  by  all."  3 

The  theory  of  the  Arabian  origin  of  the  first 
Babylonian  dynasty,  on  the  other  hand,  must  be 
admitted  to  be  extremely  plausible.  From  Arabia, 
probably  the  earliest  home  of  the  Semites,4  suc-^j  h 

1  One    need    only    refer    to    the    extracts    in    King,    Babylonian 
Religion^  chap.  6. 

2  Wellhausen,  Reste  Arab.  Heidentumsj®  pp.  216  sqq. 

3  Barton,  Semitic  Origins^  p.  307. 

4  See  Wright,  Comparative  Grammar  of  the  Semitic  Langtiages, 


30  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

cessive  waves  of  immigration  have  swept  north- 
wards, and  a  certain  amount  of  intercourse  with 
Babylonia  is  proved  by  the  occasional  references  to 
Arabian  products  in  the  oldest  inscriptions  of 
Gudea,  Sargon  I.,  and  Naram-sin.1  Consequently, 
Hommel  is  not  without  the  support  of  analogy 
when,  on  the  one  hand,  he  ascribes  the  dynasty 
of  Hammurabi  to  Arabia,  and,  on  the  other, 
seeks  distinct  traces  of  Arabian  influence  in  Israel. 
The  hypothesis  of  a  common  fountain-head  is  also 
adopted  by  Joh.  Jeremias,  who,  summing  up  his 
discussion  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  puts  forward 
the  hypothesis  that  the  traces  of  customary  law  in 
ancient  Arabia — the  reference  is  to  the  pre- Islamic 
usages  of  Christian  times — lead  us  to  infer  a 
common  tradition  of  Arabian  origin  for  the  laws  of 
Moses  and  the  Code.2  If  Arabia  is  the  cradle  of 
the  Semites,  and  has  best  preserved  the  character- 
istics of  the  Semitic  race,  even  as  the  language 
approximates  most  nearly  to  the  primitive  Semitic 
tongue,  the  hypothesis  in  question  is  no  doubt 
a  priori  justifiable.  At  the  same  time,  neverthe- 
less, one  must  not  too  hastily  accept  the  theory 
that  Arabia  at  this  remote  period  was  already  in 
possession  of  a  civilisation  of  a  highly  developed 
character  that  was  able  to  leave  its  stamp  upon 

chap.  1  ;  and  Barton's  discussion  of  the  newer  theories  in  Semitic 
Origins,  chap.  1. 

1  Hommel,    Explorations   in    Bible    Lands,    pp.    738  sqq.\    A. 
Jeremias,  Im  Kampfe  um  Babel  u.  Bibel,  p.  21. 

2  Moses  und  Hammurabi,  p.  47  ;  cp.  p.  7,  n.  2. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  31 

either  the  dynasty  of  Hammurabi  or  the  earliest 
Israelites.  This  theory  of  a  South -Arabian  seat 
of  culture,  second  only  to  that  of  Babylonia,  has 
obtained  some  currency  in  recent  years,  and  has 
become  particularly  prominent  since  it  has  been 
used  in  some  quarters  to  support  the  traditional 
view  of  the  Old  Testament  against  the  results  of 
higher  criticism. 

Our  knowledge  of  the  ancient  South  -  Arabian 
kingdoms  is  derived  from  numerous  inscriptions, 
which  fall  into  two  distinct  classes,  the  Minean  and 
Sabean,  and  belong  chiefly  to  south-west  Arabia. 
The  former  of  these  have  been  ascribed  to  a  period 
ranging  from  1400  to  700  B.C.,  at  which  date  the 
inscriptions  of  the  Sabean  priest-kings  are  supposed 
to  begin ;  the  latter  go  down  to  about  the  sixth 
century  of  the  Christian  era.1  They  presuppose 
a  highly  developed  religious  system,  with  priests 
and  priestesses,  whose  designation,  lawl,  lawiat,  is  j 
not  improbably  to  be  connected  with  the  familiar 
biblical  "Levite";  they  present  interesting  analo- 
gies to  Israelite  ceremonial  laws,  and  contain 
terms  relating  to  cult  that  find  their  parallels  inj 
the  priestly  writings  of  the  Old  Testament.  But 
this  is  not  the  place  to  speak  in  detail  of  the  state 
of  culture  which  these  inscriptions  reveal.  How- 
ever valuable  they  may  be,  it  must  not  be  for- 
gotten that,  unfortunately,  there  is  no  certain 
evidence  as  to  their  date,  and  the  authorities  to 

1  Hommel  in  Hilprecht's  Explorations  in  Bible  Lands,  p.  728  sq.  ; 
cp.  Winckler,  KAT^  p.  141  sq. 


32  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

whom  we  are  indebted  for  their  decipherment  are 
by  no  means  unanimous  as  to  the  period  to  which 
they  belong.  The  above-mentioned  dates,  which 
fare  those  recently  given  by  Hommel,  must  there- 
fore be  regarded  as  tentative,  and  if  that  scholar's 
view  be  accepted,  that  the  dynasty  of  Hammurabi, 
and  the  culture  that  characterises  it,  are  of  Arabian 
origin,  it  would  be  necessary  to  push  back  the  date 
(1400  B.C.)  another  eight  centuries  at  least. 

The  antiquity  which  the  argument  presupposes 
is  considerably  shaken  by  the  fact  that  the  one 
dated  Minean  inscription  belongs  to  the  Ptolemaic 
age,  and  that  another  which  has  a  reference  to 
Egypt  and  to  Minean  colonies  in  Edom  is  attri- 
buted to  the  time  of  Cambyses.  It  would  not  be 
unreasonable  to  suppose  that  the  Minean  inscrip- 
tions, like  those  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  extended 
over  a  lengthy  period,  and  one  would  therefore 
expect  to  find  a  marked  change  in  the  language 
and  palaeography.  This,  however,  does  not  appear 
to  be  the  case,  at  least  as  regards  the  palaeography,1 
since  the  oldest  Minean  royal  inscriptions  are  most 
closely  related  to  the  oldest  Sabean,  and  only  those 
of  the  "  kings  of  Saba"  present  later  modifications.2 
It  is  a  far  cry  from  here  to  the  origin  of  the 
alphabet,  but  the  question  of  the  date  of  the 

1  The  most  important  linguistic  differences  between  Minean  and 
Sabean  have  already  been  mentioned  (p.  24,  n.  i  above). 

2  The  "kings  of  Saba"  followed  the  "priest-kings"  (not  later 
than    about    550    B.C.),   and   extend   to  about   115   B.C.   (Hommel, 
loc.  dL 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  33 

Arabian  kingdom  actually  hinges  upon  it.  The 
Minean  script  is  now  admitted  to  be  derived  from 
the  same  alphabet  as  that  of  Canaan,1  and  the 
merest  glance  sufficiently  demonstrates  the  extra- 
ordinary modifications  it  has  undergone.  The 
writing,  instead  of  running  from  right  to  left, 
becomes  boustrophedon  (from  right  to  left  and  left 
to  right  alternately) ;  an  intense  desire  to  form  the 
characters  symmetrically  has  changed  curves  into 
angles  and  has  caused  several  of  the  letters  to  take 
a  new  position  ;  and,  finally,  additional  signs  have 
been  formed  in  order  to  represent  the  finer  shades 
of  utterance.  In  Canaan,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
earliest  specimens  of  the  so-called  "  Phoenician " 
alphabet  scarcely  go  back  beyond  the  middle  of 
the  ninth  century.  The  Moabite  Stone,  the  Hadad 
inscription  from  Zenjirli  in  North  Syria,  and  the 
11  Baal-Lebanon"  bowl  of  Hiram  II.2  palaeographic- 
ally  resemble  one  another  and  the  earliest  European 
forms  so  closely,  and  in  the  course  of  the  next  few 
centuries  begin  to  diverge  from  one  another  so 
characteristically,  tfyat  the  parent  source  from  which 
they  have  severally  been  derived  could  not  have 
been  in  existence  any  very  lengthy  period.  How 
long  a  time  one  must  allow  for  the  gradual  modi- 
fication of  this  script  to  the  form  which  it  takes  in 

1  Hommel,    loc.   cit.     See  especially    Lidzbarski's    essay   in   his 
Ephemeris  fur  Semitische  Epigraphik,  1  109  sqq.  (1902). 

2  So,  and  not  Hiram  I.,  the  contemporary  of  David  and  Solomon, 
following  von  Landau  and  E.  Meyer  (EBi.  "Phoenicia,"  col.  3753, 
n.  2). 

3 


! 


34  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

the  oldest  Minean  inscriptions  it  is  impossible  to 
say,  but  the  most  favourable  allowance  being  made, 
it  is  most  improbable  that  they  can  be  dated  as 
far  back  as  1400  B.C.1  Other  arguments  against  the 
extreme  antiquity  of  the  South  Arabian  inscriptions 
have  been  urged,2  and  an  unprejudiced  view  of  the 
drift  of  the  evidence  unhesitatingly  forbids  us  in  the 
present  state  of  our  knowledge  to  assume  that 
Arabian  culture  could  have  influenced  the  earliest 
Israelites. 

The  conclusions  to  which  one  has  been  led  are 
negative.  There  are  no  cogent  reasons  for  the 
view  that  |the  dynasty  of  Hammurabi  was  so 
specifically  North  Semitic  as  to  suggest  that  his 
code  was  based  upon  legal  institutions  which  grew 
up  and  flourished  in  the  land  which  many  centuries 
later  was  occupied  by  the  Hebrews.  |  The  occur- 
rence of  the  name  Yahwe  in  that  remote  age  is 
uncertain,  and  the  monotheism  of  the  dynasty  is 
doubtful.3  That  the  dynasty  was  Arabian  does  not 
yet  admit  of  proof,  but  the  theory  has  in  its  favour 

!the  fact  that  it  is  entirely  in  accordance  with  history 
that  immigrants  from  Arabia  should  have  issued 
forth  from  the  "  Brown  Continent,"  and  gained 

1  That  the  assumed  antiquity  of  the  inscriptions  should  compel  us 
to  carry  back  the  date  of  the  parent  alphabet  is  an  alternative  which 
will  scarcely  occur  to  any  one. 

2  Budge,   History  of  Egypt,  6  xvi.  sqq.  ;    G.   A.    Smith,    EBL 
"Trade  and  Commerce,"  §§  14,  17. 

3  The  reference  is  to  the  numerous  compounds  of  il  (p.  27  sq. 
above) ;    the   value  of  the  New   Babylonian   tablet  first  edited  by 
Dr.  Pinches  is  not  denied  (p.  28,  n.  4). 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  35 

supremacy  in  Babylonia.  The  early  existence  of 
a  seat  of  civilisation  in  Arabia  is  proved  by  its 
antiquities  that  have  been  discovered,  but  we  are 
not  yet  in  a  position  to  ascribe  them  to  a  date 
anterior  to  the  entrance  of  the  Israelites  into 
Canaan. 

Besides,  to  what  extent  is  it  legitimate  to  con-" 
elude  that  Canaan,  surrounded  as  it  was  by  seats  of 
civilisation  and  culture,  must  have  been  touched  by 
their  influence  ?  Hammurabi  and  Ammi-satana,  the 
eighth  of  the  dynasty,  claim  to  have  reigned,  over 
the  land  of  Canaan  (mat  Amurri  \_Mar-tu~\),1  and  we 
are  told  that  colonies  of  "  Amorites  "  were  at  that 
time  settled  throughout  Babylonia.2  Neither  of 
these  facts  can  be  taken  as  proof  that  the  influence 
exerted  by  Babylonia  over  Canaan  was  at  all  deep- 
seated,  and  the  same  must  be  said  of  the  famous 
Amarna  Tablets.  The  letters  between  the  Egyptian 
Pharaohs,  on  the  one  side,  and  the  rulers  of 
Babylonia,  Assyria,  Mesopotamia,  and  Cyprus,  or  the 
overlords  in  Canaan,  on  the  other,  are  written  in 
cuneiform,  and  the  widest  possible  inferences  have 
accordingly  been  drawn.  Thus,  it  has  been  con- 
cluded that  the  influence  of  Babylonia  upon  Canaan 
must  have  been  of  long  duration,  that  Canaan  was 
steeped  in  Babylonian  culture,  and  was  no  more  than 
a  Babylonian  domain  when  the  Israelites  appeared 

1  Pinches,  Records  of  the  Past,  second  series,  5  104 ;  Winckler, 
Altorient.  Forschungen,  1  144  sqq  ;  KAT®]  pp.  20,  178  sqq. 

2  Sayce,    Babylonians    and  Assyrians,     pp.    187-192;    Pinches, 
The  Old  Testament,  pp.  169  sqq. 


36  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

upon  the  scene.  "  It  was  not  only  the  commerce," 
says  Delitzsch,  "  but  also  the  trade,  law,  custom,  and 
,  science  of  Babylon  that  set  the  fashion  in  the  land." 1 
Would  it  not  be  as  justifiable  to  assume  from  the 
contents  of  the  letters  themselves  that  Egyptian 
influence  must  have  been  equally  deep-seated? 
And  this  would  be  the  more  natural,  since  the 
circumstance  that  the  tablets  are  written  in  Assyrian 
only  proves  that  as  a  literary  and  diplomatic 
language  Assyrian  was  found  to  be  a  better  vehicle 
than  the  Canaanite,  which  at  that  time  probably  did 
not  exist  in  writing.  The  widespread  use  of 
Aramaic  in  later  times  is  another  instance  of  the 
widespread  use  of  a  language  for  diplomatic 
purposes,  and — to  descend  to  the  Christian  era — it 
is  well  known  that  the  Arabians  wrote  their  public 
documents  in  Persian,  Greek,  or  Coptic  (in  Cufa, 
Damascus,  and  Egypt  respectively),  until  the  use 
of  Arabic  was  introduced.  The  Amarna  Tablets, 
therefore,  as  many  scholars  agree,  are  "  no  criterion 
for  the  state  of  intelligence  and  the  extent  of  the 
penetration  of  Babylonian  culture  among  the  mass 
of  the  people."2 

Or  again,  if  it  is  stated,  on  the  strength  of  the 
claims  of  Hammurabi  and  Ammi-satana,  that  Canaan 
in  the  time  of  Abraham  was  already  freely  exposed 

1  Babel  and  Bible,  p.  40  ;  cp.  Gunkel,  Israel  und  Babylonien,  p.  7. 

2  Budde,  "  The  Old  Testament  and  the  Excavations,"  American 
Journal  of  Theology -,    1902,   p.   701  ;  cp.    Bevan,    Critical  Review^ 

1897,    p.    410;  Earth,  Bibel  u.  Israelit.    Religion   (Berlin,    1902), 
p.  4  sq. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  37 

to  Babylonian  influence,  is  it  not  equally  plausible 
to  appeal  to  the  historical  inscriptions  of  Thutmosis 
III.,  Ramses  II.,  and  Sosenk  I.  (Shiskak),  and 
assert  that  Canaan,  from  before  the  age  of  Abraham 
down  to  the  time  of  Solomon,  was  constantly  open 
to  Egyptian  civilisation  ?  This  has  even  been  done. 
It  has  been  recently  asserted,  for  example,  that  at 
the  period  when  the  Israelites  entered  Canaan, 
Arabia  was  "  thoroughly  saturated  with  the  elements 
of  Babylonian,  and  no  doubt  also  of  Egyptian,  life 
and  thought,"  whilst  "  in  Palestine  a  highly  de- 
veloped civilisation  had  been  already  in  active 
existence  for  at  least  a  thousand  years."1 

That  the  influence  of  the  surrounding  seats  of 
civilisation  did  make  itself  felt  upon  the  land  of 
Canaan  at  some  period  is  a  fact  that  cannot  bej 
denied.2  The  traces  of  Babylonian  culture  are  too 
numerous  to  be  ignored,  but  to  what  age  do  they 
belong  ?  Babylonian  myths  could  no  doubt  have 
found  their  way  in  at  a  remote  date,  since  legendary 
matter  is  precisely  the  kind  of  material  that  most 
readily  passes  from  mouth  to  mouth.  It  is  note- 
worthy, however,  that  the  legend  of  the  Flood,  even, 

1  Kittel,  The  Babylonian  Excavations  and  Early  Bible  History, 
(London,  1903),  pp.  24-27. 

2  The  traces  left  by  Egypt,  however,  are  of  the   slightest   (cp. 
Robertson    Smith,  Prophets   of  Israel j®  p.    379  sq.\     Sayce,   too, 
observes  that  in  the  Mosaic  legislation  "  it  is  remarkable  how  entirely 
Egypt  is   ignored "   (Early  History  of  the  Hebrews,  p.   2 1  o).    The 
recent  attempt  of  Volter  to  find  Egyptian  mythology  reflected  in  the 
traditions  of  earlier  Israelite  history  (Aegypten  und  die  Bibel,  Leyden, 
1903)  is  ingenious,  but  scarcely  convincing. 


38  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

is  not  preserved  in  the  earliest  Hebrew  records.  It 
is  not  until  the  time  of  a  later  Yahwist  writer  that 
it  finds  a  place,  and  from  this  it  would  seem  that  it 
could  scarcely  have  been  familiar  to  Israel  before 
the  end  of  the  eighth  century.1  Again,  foreign 
traders  could  easily  introduce  their  systems  of 
weights  and  measures,  but  it  is  questionable  whether 
their  influence  would  go  beyond  this.  To  take  an 
example  :  literary  criticism  includes  the  interesting 
account  of  Abraham's  purchase  of  the  cave  of 
Machpelah  in  Gen.  23  among  a  series  of  narratives 
written  by  the  (post -exilic)  priestly  writer.  The 
purchase  is  narrated  with  great  fulness,  as  contrasted 
with  the  single  verse  which  the  earlier  (Elohist) 
writer  devotes  to  the  similar  act  in  Gen.  8819  (cp. 
also  2  Sam.  24  24).  Although  of  later  origin,  the 
details  are  doubtless  quite  in  accordance  with  ancient 
practice,  since  customary  usages  in  the  East  are 
changed  only  with  the  greatest  difficulty  and  by  slow 
degrees.  But  viewed  in  the  light  of  "  Babylonian 
influence,"  how  does  the  narrative  stand  ?  Some 
writers  are  struck  with  the  Babylonian  colouring,  and 
find  in  Gen.  23  "  a  faithful  picture  of  such  trans- 
actions as  they  were  conducted  at  the  time  in  the 
cities  of  Babylonia.  ...  It  reads  like  one  of  the 
cuneiform  documents  ;  ...  it  is  conformed  to  the 
law  and  procedure  of  Babylonia  as  they  were  in  the 
patriarchal  age.  At  a  later  date  the  law  and 
procedure  were  altered,  and  a  narrative  in  which 

1  EBi.  col.  1059  sqq.  ;  Budde,  op.  tit.  p.  706  sq. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  39 

they  are  embodied  must  therefore  go  back  to  a  pre- 
Mosaic  antiquity." 1  Other  Assyriologists,  however, 
are  well  aware  that  a  comparison  of  the  Babylonian 
contracts  with  the  biblical  account  of  the  transaction 
in  Genesis  "  shows  noteworthy  differences." 2  The 
resemblance  is  only  superficial ;  not  only  are  the 
most  essential  Babylonian  characteristics  wanting, 
but  the  chief  feature  common  to  both — the  trans- 
action of  business  at  the  city  gate — was,  and  is,  so 
regular  a  practice  in  the  East,  that  it  is  impossible 
to  find  in  Gen.  23 10,  18  an  indication  of  Babylonian 
influence. 

The  tendency  to  exaggerate  the  extent  of 
foreign  influence — which  has  occasionally  gone  to 
such  a  length  as  to  derive  the  essential  features  of 
Israelite  culture  and  religion  from  outside — takes 
no  account  of  historical  experience.  It  is  a  familiar 
fact  that  many  of  the  present  customs  in  the  East 
find  parallels  in  pre- Islamic  Arabia,  in  ancient 
Israel,  even  in  Babylonia  itself.  In  the  study  of 
primitive  institutions  the  terms  "  ancient "  and 
"  primitive "  are  not  correlative ;  that  which  is 
chronologically  ancient  is  not  therefore  old  from 
the  point  of  view  of  comparative  custom.  Many 
Bedouin  tribes  are,  sociologically,  older  than  the 
earliest  historically  known  Israelites,  and  the  latter, 
in  turn,  even  in  the  sixth  century  are  far  behind 

1  Sayce,  Early  History  of  the  Hebrews,  p.   57  ;  cp.    Boscawen, 
Journal  of  the  Victoria  Institute,  24  186  (1890-91):   it  "reads  as   if 
it  were  taken  from  Babylonian  documents." 

2  So,  Pinches,  The  Old  Testament,  p.  238. 


40  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 

the  Babylonians  of  the  time  of  Hammurabi.  The 
long  years  of  Roman  oppression  and  the  wars  of 
the  Crusaders  have  left  their  mark  upon  the  land 
of  Palestine,  but  what  traces  are  to  be  found  among 
the  people  ?  Primitive  institutions  and  beliefs  are 
almost  ineradicable  ;  waves  of  foreign  population 
may  flood  a  land,  and  leave  their  traces  only  in 
the  nomenclature  or  in  the  ethnological  types. 
Palestine,  at  the  present  day,  has  preserved  primi- 
tive Semitic  rites  and  customs,  sometimes  almost 
intact,  sometimes  under  a  veneer  of  Moham- 
medanism,1 and,  speaking  generally,  it  is  only  in 
the  towns  and  villages  along  the  regular  trade- 
routes  and  roads  that  primitive  conditions  have 
undergone  any  change. 

Accordingly,  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  is  an 
important  addition  to  ancient  literature  for  socio- 
logical reasons.  Apart  from  the  fact  that  it  is  the 
oldest  known  code  of  laws,  it  is  especially  valuable 
for  the  light  it  may  be  expected  to  throw  upon  the 
life  of  the  Babylonians  at  the  close  of  the  third 
millennium  before  Christ.  It  follows,  too,  from 
what  has  been  said,  that  it  will  enable  us  to  deter- 
mine whether  f  Babylonian  influence  over  Canaan 
was  so  strong  as  to  force  its  code  upon  its  in- 
habitantsTS  Of  greater  interest  is  the  question  of 
its  relation  to  the  legal  institutions  of  the  Old 

1  See  the  present  writer  in  the  Jewish  Quarterly  Review^  April 
1902,  p.  430  sq.,  and  especially  the  invaluable  material  collected  at 
first  hand  by  Prof.  S.  I.  Curtiss,  Primitive  Semitic  Religion  To-day 
(1902). 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL 

Testament.     The  attempt  must  be  made  to  see  To 
what  extent  Israelite  law  is  indebted  to  the  Code,; 
to  determine    whether    Israelite   lawgivers    framed 
their  laws  upon   Babylonian  models,  and  if  so,  at 
what  period.     For  this  purpose  it  will  be  borne  in 
mind  that  the  [Code  was  promulgated  by  a   king 
whom   Hebrew  tradition  knew  as  a  contemporary 
of  Abraham,  and  even  Abraham's  traditional  home 
is  one  of  the  very  cities  mentioned  in  Hammurabi's 
prologue.     It  is  by  no  means  unlikely,   therefore,! 
that  a  copy  of  the  Code  was  set  up  in  Urjof  the| 
Chaldees.     In  addition  to  this  we  must  remember 
that  the  Code  long  continued  to  form  the  founda- 
tion  of   Babylonian    law.     Under   the  name  "  the 
Judgment  of  Righteousness  which  Hammurabi  the 
great  king  set   up,"  it  reappears  in  the   reign  of 
Asurbanipal    (probably    668-625   B.C.),   almost  con- 
temporary, therefore,    with    the   oldest   portion   of 
Deuteronomy   and    the    reforms    of    Josiah    (622- 
621  B.C.).     At  a  still  later  period  it  became  a  text- 
book for  students  in  Babylonia,  and  its  laws  were* 
divided  into  chapters  with   headings.1      With   the 
decay  and  fall  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  it  is  not 
to  be  expected  that  all  recollection  of  the  Code  diecj 
out.     Talmudic  legislation,  with  its  minuteness  of 
details,  may  well  have  borrowed  from  it,  and  this  is 
the  more  probable  since  the  later  Jewish  contracts 
contain  characteristic  reminiscences  of  Babylonian 
legal  phraseology.2      Finally,    in    Syria   itself,    the 

1  C.  H.  W.  Johns,  The  Oldest  Code  of  Laws  in  the  World,  p.  vi. 
'2  N.  M.  Nathan,  Orient.  Litteratur-Zeitung,  1903,  col.  182-184. 


42  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  11 

fifth-century  law-book,  edited  by  Brims  and  Sachau, 
which  influenced  later  legal  procedure  from  Armenia 
to  Egypt,  although  a  free  edition  of  Roman  law, 
reveals  provisions  which  are  neither  of  Roman 
origin  nor  modifications  or  adaptations  of  known 
Roman  law.1 

Babylonia,  fortunate  enough  to  possess  a 
thoroughly  practical  code  dating  back  at  least  to 
the  twenty-third  century  before  Christ,  stands  in 
marked  contrast  with  Israel,  whose  legislation  was 
.  the  result  of  a  very  gradual  development  from  the 
primitive  customary  usage  of  the  desert,  and  did 
not  attain  its  present  form  until  after  the  Exile. 
Jewish  theory  attributed  its  origin  to  Yah  we,  who 
revealed  laws  through  Moses,  even  as  the  sun-god 
Samas  imparted  the  laws  of  the  Babylonian  code  to 
Hammurabi.  But  there  is  not  the  slightest  reason 
to  suppose  that  Hammurabi  introduced  a  series  of 
innovations  or  novelties ;  his  laws  have  had  a 
lengthy  history  behind  them,  and  prove  themselves 
to  be  based  upon  ancient  custom.  Israelite  tradi- 

ftion,  in  like  manner,  presupposes  the  existence  of 
laws  before  Moses,  and  the  two  systems  of  legisla- 
tion have  this  in  common,  therefore,  that  they  may 
claim  to  be  not  original  productions,  but  authorita- 
tive promulgations. ^Israelite  tradition,  moreover, 
ascribes  to  the  authority  of  Moses  laws  that  are 


1  Syrisch-Romisches  Rechtsbuch  aus  dem  fiinften  Jahrhundert  aus 
den  orientalischen  Quellen  herausgegeben,  iibersetzt  und  erldutert 
(Leipsic,  1880). 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  43 

clearly  of  later  origin.1  ;  The  conglomeration  of 
civil  and  religious  law  in  the  Lex  Mosaica,  when 
closely  examined,  presupposes  a  variety  of  condi- 
tions which  could  not  have  existed  at  one  and  the 
same  time ;  some  of  the  enactments  have  the 
appearance  of  being  ancient  survivals  of  nomad' 
days  adapted  to  the  changed  environment,  others 
are  doubtless  due  to  the  prophets,  the  recognised 
mouthpieces  of  "  instructions "  (torotJi),  and  still! 
others  bear  a  specific  priestly  stamp,  and  reflect  \ 
an  exilic  background.  The  disentanglement  and 
separation  of  this  complexity  into  its  component 
parts  is  the  work  of  the  "  literary  criticism  "  of  the 
Old  Testament,  and  its  results  disclose  a  develop- 
ment in  the  history  of  Israelite  legislation,  without 
the  recognition  of  which  the  law  becomes  un- 
intelligible and  contradictory,  and  the  study  of 
Israelite /M5  would  be  an  impossible  task. 

The  history  of  the  development  of  law  in  Israel 
is  divided  into  four  distinct  periods,  one  of  which 
falls  outside  biblical  times.2 

(i)  The  civil  law  of  the  oldest  period,  down  to 
the  reformation  of  Josiah,  is  represented  in  the 
so-called  Book  of  the  Covenant,  Ex.  21-23  (more 
precisely  21  2-22  17),  and  is  illustrated  by  the 

1  Notably  in  the  law  of  war,   I  Sam.  30  24  sq.,  compared  with 
Num.  31  27  (P). 

2  See   especially    G.    B.    Gray,   EBi.    "Law    Literature."      The 
synopsis  of  Israelite  laws  and  institutions  in  the  Hexateuch  can  be 
best    studied    in   the   tables  presented   in    Carpenter   and   Harford- 
Battersby,  The  Hexateuchy  \  222  sqq.^  266  sqq.  (London,  1900). 


44  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  n 


writings  of  the  Yahwistic  and  Elohistic  schools 
/_.and  the  earlier  prophets.  The  existence  of  a 
-written  collection  embodying  social  laws  is  pre- 
sjoggosed  for  the  middle  of  the  eighth  century  by 
Hosea  8  12,  where  the  allusion  may  be  to  no  other 
than  this  collection.1  The  Book  of  the  Covenant, 
therefore,  is  the  oldest  civil  code  in  the  Old 
Testament,2  and  it  is  important  to  understand  its 
characteristics.  On  examination  it  proves  to  belong 
to  an  agricultural  people,  whose  wealth  consists  of 
cattle  and  produce,  although  money  is  not  un- 
y  known.  The  legal  principles  are  those  of  the 
desert-dwellers  of  to-day — the  talio  and  pecuniary 
compensation  ;  there  are  no  degrading  punishments. 
Women  are  not  upon  an  equality  with  men,  but, 
like  the  slaves,  possess  certain  rights.  There  is  no 
centralisation  of  justice  ;  men  can  resort  to  any  shrine 
or  sanctuary  for  a  divine  decision.  The  structure 
of  society  is  of  the  simplest.  No  doubt  other  laws 
came  into  being  as  society  became  more  complicated, 
and  towards  the  close  of  this  period,  during  the 
seventh  century,  we  may  trace  the  rise  of  a  greater 
refinement  of  morals  and  ethics,  such  as  is  reflected 
in  the  Decalogue.3 

1  The  text  is  doubtful.     Gratz's  emendation,  "  the  words  of  my 
torah"  is  perhaps  the  most  plausible. 

2  "It  may  be  compared  with  the  Laws  of  the  Twelve  Tables,  and 
especially  with  the  legislation  of  Solon,  to  which  it  is  probably  not 
much  anterior  in  time"  (G.  F.  Moore,  EBL  "  Exodus,"  col.  1447). 

3  The  contemporary  ethics    of  the  Assyrians  are  to  be  seen  in 
the    ceremonial    code    quoted    by    King,   Babylonian   Religion^   pp. 
218-220. 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  45 

(2)    The   period   of  the    reformation    of  Josiah 
(621    B.C.)    is    marked   by  a  pragmatism,   the   first! 
traces  of  which  begin  to  appear  in  the  later  elements1' 
of  the  Elohistic  writings.     The  code  of  this  period 
is  the  Deuteronomic,  whose  leading  feature  is  the 
institution  of  a  single  sanctuary  at  Jerusalem,  an 
innovation    which   would    inevitably    tend    to    the 
centralisation  of  justice  and  to  the  modification  of  , 
old  legal  usages.     A  complete  codification  of  law 
now  became  a  necessity.     Most  critics  confine  the 
original  law-book  of  Josiah's  day  to  Deut.  5-26,  28, 
but  as  a  close  inspection  of  their  contents  proves, 
these  chapters  have   not   come   down    unchanged. 
The  code  has  probably  drawn  upon  several  olden 
collections,    several    of   which   may   have   been    in 
writing   before  they  were   embodied   in    Deutero-J 
nomy.     The  old  laws  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant 
are  rewritten,  expanded,  or  modified,  and  primitive 
usages  which  for  sofne  reason  or  another  were  not! 
included  in  the  older  code  find  a  place  here  for  the 
first  time.     The  executive  system  is  more  advanced, 
the    talio    has    begun    to    disappear,    and   a   new 
form   of   punishment — the    bastinado — makes    its 
appearance,   the   indication    of  a   change  in   sociajt 
feeling.1       Pecuniary    compensations,    which     had 

1  Robertson  Smith,  Old  Test,  in  Jewish  Church,^  p.  368.  The 
introduction  of  the  bastinado  into  Arabian  procedure  is  probably  due 
to  Persian  influence  (G.  Jacob,  Das  Leben  vorislam.  Beduinen^ 
p.  165,  Berlin,  1895).  It  was  a  common  mode  of  correction  in| 
Egypt  and  Assyria,  especially  for  lighter  offences.  In  the  former 
land  leading  offenders  of  rank  were  spared  this  humiliation,  and  were 
allowed  to  commit  suicide  (Spiegelberg,  Studien  u.  Materialien  z. 
Rechtswesen  d.  Pharaonenreiches^  pp.  66  sqq.^  Hanover,  1892). 


46  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  11 

previously  been  left  to  the  injured  party  or  to 
customary  usage,  are  now  legally  fixed  at  a  specified 
sum.1  Like  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  (which  is 
also  characterised  by  the  frequent  specification  of 
the  amount  of  compensation),  the  Deuteronomic 
code  is  prefaced  by  a  historical  introduction  and 
rounded  off  with  a  blessing  and  a  series  of  cursings 
(above,  p.  15).  As  a  whole,  it  is  marked  by  the 
emphasis  with  which  heathen  usages  are  forbidden, 
and  by  the  mitigation  of  older  rude  or  harsh  institu- 
tions. It  is  a  law-book  which  endeavours  to  give 
expression  to  the  ideals  of  the  prophets,  whilst  pre- 
senting a  fairly  practical  system  of  legislation. 

(3)  The  exilic  period  is  characterised  by  the 
I  largely  theoretical  and  ideal  system  of  legislation 
which  is  especially  noticeable  in  Ezek.  40  sqq. 
Early  history  was  rewritten  from  the  priestly  stand- 
point (end  of  sixth  and  beginning  of  fifth  century), 
its  chief  object  being  to  indicate  the  divine  origin  of 
Israelite  institutions.  The  legislation  of  Leviticus 
is  pre-eminently  ritualistic ;  only  the  so-called  Law 
of  Holiness  (Lev.  17-26)  requires  special  mention. 
This  important  collection  is  of  exilic  origin,  although 
the  sources  from  which  it  has  been  derived  are 
considerably  earlier.  It  is  particularly  noticeable 
or  its  familiarity  with  the  older  codes  (cp.  especially 
ch.  19),2  and  for  the  greater  minuteness  with  which 

1  Ex.  22  16  sq.    contrasted    with    Deut.  22  28  sq. ;    cp.    also    Ex. 
21  22,  30,  with  Deut.  22  19. 

2  "  Perhaps  the  best  representative  of  the  ethics  of  ancient  Israel " 
(G.  F.  Moore,  EBi.  "  Leviticus,"  §  17). 


CHAP,  ii  BABYLONIA  AND  ISRAEL  47 

family  and  social  life  is  regulated.     It  may  owe  its  I 
ultimate  origin  to  the  toroth  or  legal  decisions  of  the/ 
monarchical  age,  several  collections  of  which  were! 
probably  current.1 

(4)  The  closing  of  the  Canon  did  not  put  a  stop\ 
to    legislative    activity.      The    Mosaic    laws    were\ 
theoretically  discussed  with  an  almost  inconceivable 
thoroughness,  and  their  provisions  were  adapted  to/ 
the  changed  conditions  of  Judaism.     Numerous  legal 
usages  had  come  into  currency  since  the  Exile,  and 
had  passed    into   the   common   tradition,    and   this 
extra-canonical  legislation  was  likewise  attributed  to 
Moses,   who,  according  to  the  Jewish  theory,  had 
handed  it  down  orally  along  with  the  written  laws  of 
the  Pentateuch.     The  fall  of  Jerusalem  gave  occasion 
for    a   systematic   codification    of    the    "  oral "    law, 
which,  together  with  the  decisions  of  the  Rabbis,  is, 
embodied  in  the  Mishnah  (about   200  A.D.).     The 
Mishnah,  in  turn,  formed  the  subject  of  the  renewed 
discussions  in   the   rabbinical   schools   of  Palestine 
and  Babylonia  which  are  contained  in  the  "  Gemara," 
and  with  the  Mishnah  constitute  the  Palestinian  and 
Babylonian    Talmuds    respectively.     The    scope  of' 
the  present  study  does  not  necessitate  a  considera- 
tion of  the  later   post-Talmudical    development   of 
Jewish  law,  and  enough  has  been  said,  perhaps,  to 
indicate  the  fields  over  which  the  Babylonian  code 
could  exert  its  influence. 

1  Cp.  the  series  of  offences  in  Ezek.  18. 


CHAPTER   III 

ELEMENTS    OF   LAW   AND    PROCEDURE 

Babylonians  and  primitive  Semites — Tribal  custom  the  foundation  of 
law — Blood-revenge — Judicial  authorities — Institution  of  judges 
in  Israel — Centralisation  of  justice — Divine  decisions — Resort  to 
a  deity — Oaths  of  purgation  "before  God" — Semitic  ordeals — 
Procedure  in  Babylonia — Laws  relating  to  judges  and  witnesses. 

THE  existence  of  a  lengthy  code,  which,  as  we 
have  seen  in  chap,  i.,  covered  a  great  variety  of 
legal  topics,  is  sufficient  proof  that  in  Hammurabi's 
age  law  and  justice  had  reached  an  extremely 
advanced  stage  of  development.  It  presupposes 
regularly  instituted  courts  of  law  with  duly  qualified 
judges,  and  it  requires  us  to  conclude,  further,  that 
this  stage  had  long  been  in  existence,  and  that  the 
Code  was  intended  to  fix  once  and  for  all  certain 
judicial  decisions  which,  if  not  new,  at  least  required 
the  authority  of  royal  approval  to  make  them 
general. 

The  Babylonian  Semites  and  the  Semites  of  the 
desert  lived  under  entirely  different  conditions,  and 
whilst  the  latter,  particularly  in  districts  removed 
from  the  regular  trade-routes,  have  remained  through- 

48 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       49 

out  all  ages  practically  untouched  by  the  influence  of 
the  surrounding  seats  of  culture,  Babylonian  society 
in  the  time  of  Hammurabi  was  a  fusion  of  Semitic 
and  pre-Semitic  stocks  of  obscure  origin.1  What 
Robertson  Smith  has  said  of  the  religious  ideas  of 
Babylonia  in  their  relation  to  those  of  the  primitive 
Semites2  may  be  applied  to  its  laws.  The  fusion 
of  races  in  Babylonia  leads  to  the  expectation  that 
the  principles  of  law  and  justice  were  an  artificial 
combination  of  the  most  diverse  elements,  and  it  is 
therefore  obvious  that  our  inquiry  must  start  with 
the  less  complicated  types  from  the  other  regions  of_ 
the  Semitic  world. 

Here  we  are  at  once  brought  face  to  face  with  the  > 
fact  that  among  primitive  Semitic  communities  there  / 
is,  properly  speaking,  no  law  and  no  law-givers.     But 
it  would  be  a  mistake  to  infer  that  there  was  law- 
lessness.3    Tribal  custom — and  with  it  is  involved 
religious  custom — is  the  strongest  of  laws.     A  thing 
is  lawful    because   it   has   always    been    considered 
lawful ;  things  that  are  unlawful  are  things  that  are 
not  wont  or  ought  not  to  be  done.4     Within  the 

1  That  the  so-called  Accadians  or  Sumerians  were  not  Semites 
seems  to  be  conclusively  proved,  but  of  their  nationality  and  life  there 
is  little  certain  information.     Under  these  circumstances  it  is  scarcely 
necessary   to    attempt    to    discover    in    what   respects   the   Code   is 
indebted  to  non-Semitic  legislation. 

2  Rel.  Sem.(2)  p.  1 3  sq. 

3  Cp.  Benzinger  in  EBi.  "Law  and  Justice,"  §  i,  "Government," 

§9- 

4  Gen.  20  9,  29  26  (a  reference  to  local  custom) ;  cp.  Gen.  34  7, 
2  Sam.  13  12. 


50  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  HI 

tribe  all  men  are  on  a  footing  of  equality,  and  under 
a  communistic  system  petty  offences  are  unreason- 
able. Serious  misdemeanour  is  punished  by  expul- 
sion ;  the  offender  is  excluded  from  the  protection  of 
his  kinsmen,  and  the  penalty  is  sufficiently  severe  to 
prevent  its  being  a  common  occurrence.  The  man 
who  is  wronged  must  take  the  first  step  in  gaining 
redress,  and  when  it  happens  that  the  whole  tribe 
is  aroused  by  the  perpetration  of  any  exceptionally 
serious  crime,  the  offence  is  fundamentally  regarded 
as  a  violation  of  the  tribe's  honour,  rather  than  as 
a  personal  grievance  on  the  part  of  the  family  of  the 
sufferer.  Courts,  as  in  Babylonia,  for  the  adequate 
punishment  of  offences  and  legally  ordained  punish- 
ments are  not  yet  in  existence.  This  essential  dis- 
tinction between  primitive  Semitic  and  Babylonian 
procedure  comes  out  most  clearly  in  the  case  of 
blood-revenge. 

The  familiar  Semitic  conception  of  the  sacredness 
of  blood — whether  human  or  animal — must  have 
long  been  forgotten  among  the  Babylonians,  whose 
code  is  characterised  by  the  frequent  application  of 
the  death  penalty.  It  is  unnecessary  to  point  out 
in  detail  how  the  Semites  have  been  influenced  by 
this  conception.  The  inviolable  nature  of  the  blood- 
tie  which  makes  kinsmen  brothers,  and  the  responsi- 
bility attached  to  the  shedding  of  blood,  lie  at  the 
very  root  of  the  almost  ineradicable  system  of 
blood-revenge.  If  a  man  has  killed  one  of  his  own 
group,  he  has  committed  an  offence  for  which  he 
cannot  expect  to  obtain  protection  from  the  members 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       51 

of  his  tribe.  He  may  be  solemnly  put  to  death,  and 
this  was  primarily  effected  without  the  spilling  of 
blood,  or  he  may  be  formally  expelled,  in  which 
case  he  becomes  an  outlaw.1  In  any  case  the  com- 
munity must  be  purged  of  the  presence  of  the 
impious  member.  On  the  other  hand,  when  the 
slayer  and  the  slain  are  of  distinct  groups,  the 
principle  of  the  sacredness  of  blood  reacts  in  a 
different  manner.  The  group  of  the  slain,  on  the 
one  side,  are  bound  in  point  of  honour  not  to  leave 
their  kinsman's  death  unavenged ;  the  slayer's  group, 
on  the  other,  so  far  from  being  under  an  obligation 
to  surrender  the  guilty  one,  regard  it  as  equally  a 
point  of  honour  to  unite  to  protect  him.  There  is 
blood-feud  between  the  two  groups.  Any  member 
of  the  aggrieved  group  may  retaliate  upon  any  of 
the  slayer's  group,  and  until  satisfaction  is  obtained 
this  state  of  feud  continues.  Naturally,  under  the 
circumstances,  there  may  be  indiscriminate  slaughter, 
and  the  blood -feud  is  prolonged  indefinitely.  So 
deeply  rooted  is  the  practice  that  blood -revenge 
holds  good  among  the  wilder  Bedouin  tribes  of  to- 
day. Certain  modifications,  however,  were  gradually 
introduced,  with  the  object  of  preventing  the  fierce 
internecine  fights  and  the  insecurity  of  life  which 

1  Cp.  Gen.  4  12.  In  ancient  Arabia  the  formula  varied  :  we  pro- 
nounced so-and-so  to  be  a  hali^  "  God  put  away  this  man,"  or  "  We 
are  clean  (innocent)  of  him"  (Procksch,  Uber  die  Blutrache  bei  den 
vorislamischen  Arabern^  p.  31  sq.}.  For  the  principles  of  blood- 
revenge,  see  Robertson  Smith,  Kinship  and  Marriage  f}  pp.  25-27  ; 
cp.  also  W.  M.  Patton,  "  Blood -revenge  in  Arabia  and  Israel," 
American  Journal  of  Theology  ^  October  1901,  pp.  703-731. 


52  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  in 

the  feud  entailed.  Blood -wit  was  offered  and 
accepted,  the  responsibility  for  murder  was  confined 
within  limits,  and  retaliation  restricted  to  the  guilty 
party  and  immediate  relations.1  The  development 
of  the  system  in  Israel  will  require  separate  con- 
sideration later,  where  we  shall  find  that  as  late  as  the 
seventh  century  the  murderer  is  solemnly  delivered 
over  into  the  hands  of  the  slain  man's  nearest  kins- 
man, "that  he  may  die,"  and  that  in  other  cases 
where  the  death  penalty  has  to  be  enforced  it  is 
carried  out  by  the  community  in  general.  Even 
the  responsibility  of  judicial  blood -shedding  must 
needs  be  borne  by  as  many  as  possible.2 

It  is  characteristic  of  primitive  Semitic  organisa- 

f  tions  that  there  are  no  specified  officials  to  pronounce 

\  or  carry  out  legal  decrees.     In  every  tribe  there  were, 

and  are,  certain  leading  families,  often  hereditary, 

whose  heads  enjoyed  certain  privileges,3  in  return 

for   which    they    performed   particular    duties — the 

entertaining  of  guests,  the  protection  of  widows  and 

orphans,  etc. — but  except  when  the  tribe  is  organised 

for  defence  or  offence,  the  office  is  one  of  dignity 

rather  than  authority.     The  sheikh  may  be  called 

I  upon  to  settle  differences  within  the  tribe,  or,  if  he 

1  Jaussen  (Revue  Biblique,  1903,  p.  253)  mentions  the  story  of  a 
modern  Bedouin  who,  to  protect  his   kin  from  blood -feud  and  to 
confine  a  quarrel  to  his  adversary  and  himself,  solemnly  repudiated 
his    family.       Henceforth    he    alone   became   responsible   for   what 
followed. 

2  Rel  Sem.(a}  pp.  284  sy.,  304  sq.,  417  sqq. 

3  Thus  the  sheikh,  in  ancient  Arabia  also  called  sayyid,  "  coun- 
sellor "  (cp.  Heb.  sod\  receives  one-fourth  of  all  booty. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       53 

be  of  repute,  men  from  outside  may  appeal  to  his; 
decision.  But  he  has  no  judicial  powers,  and  if 
either  of  the  parties  is  dissatisfied  he  cannot  enforce 
obedience.  Much  less  can  he  himself  inflict  punish- 
ment even  upon  the  poorest  man  of  the  tribe.  He 
is  not  supported  by  subordinate  officers  appointed  to 
carry  out  his  decrees ;  his  weapon  is  persuasion  rather 
than  compulsion.1 

Such  tribes,  held  together  by  the  bond  of  blood, 
in  course  of  time  united  with  their  neighbours,  and 
became  knit  together  by  common  interests  and 
practical  necessity,  and  when  the  occasion  arose  for 
joint  action,  the  leading  sheikhs  of  each  community 
consulted  together  and  took  the  reins  of  these  half- 
developed  states.  These  steps  on  the  road  to 
kingship2  were  trodden  by  the  Israelites,  whose 
conditions,  in  the  earliest  periods  of  their  history, 
can  scarcely  have  been  very  different  from  the 
pre- Islamic  Arabs  and  modern  Bedouin.  How 
utterly  removed  they  were  from  the  advanced 
organisation  of  Hammurabi's  age  needs  no  demon- 
stration. 

On  entering  Canaan,  the  Israelites  found  them- 
selves in  the  presence  of  a  culture  superior  to  their 
own,  through  whose  influence  their  primitive  tribal 
constitution  in  course  of  time  became  entirely  lost. 

1  See    Robertson    Smith,   Prophets,   p.    381,   Kinship,^  p.    68; 
Doughty,  Arabia  Deserta,   1  145   (and  passim)  ;   Procksch,  op.  tit. 
pp.  7  sqq. ;    Lady  Anne   Blunt,  Bedouin  Tribes  of  the  Euphrates^ 
2  231  sqq. 

2  Rel.  Sem.(2)  p.  33  sq.;  Blunt,  op.  cit.  p.  235  sq. 


54  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  in 

But  the  superior  culture  of  the  Canaanites  rested 
solely  in  the  fact  that  they  were  a  settled  people,  who 
lived  in  towns  and  were  familiar  with  agriculture, 
and  the  excavations  in  Southern  Palestine,  at  all 
events,  do  not  lead  us  to  infer  that  the  stage  of 
civilisation  which  they  had  reached  was  as  high  as 
the  presumed  influence  of  Babylonia  would  have  led 
us  to  expect.  The  Canaanite  communities  consisted 
of  cities  around  which  were  grouped  "  daughters," 
villages  which  stood  in  a  subordinate  relation  to 
them.  We  are  as  ignorant  of  the  details  of  their 
constitution  as  we  are  of  that  of  their  northern 
neighbours,  the  Phoenicians,  although  several  con- 
siderations tend  to  make  it  probable  that  their 
government  was  in  the  hands  of  an  aristocracy,  the 
princes  (sartm),  elders  (zekeriim),  or  lords  (be'altm) 
of  the  Book  of  Judges,1  who  controlled  all  matters 
affecting  the  interests  of  the  city  (Judg.  8  sq.).  That 
they  held  legislative  powers  is  doubtless  true,  in  so 
far  as  might  makes  right.  Professional  judges  were 
rnot  known  in  the  earlier  period  of  Israelite  history; 
even  in  Egypt  it  is  questionable  whether  they  existed 
before  the  New  Kingdom.2  Of  the  Hebrew  terms 
Tor  "  judges,"  the  soter  is  primarily  a  military  official, 
and  it  is  not  until  post- exilic  literature  that  it  is 
applied  to  one  with  judicial  powers.3  The  mehokek 
is  a  commander  or  ruler,  and  the  same  appears  to 

1  Cp.  Meyer,  EBi.  "Phoenicia,"  §  16. 

2  Spiegelberg,  Studien   und  Materialien  sum   Rechtswesen   des 
Pharaonenreiches  (Hanover,  1892),  p.  63. 

3  See  Driver's  note,  Deut.  p.  17. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       55 

be  true  of  the  kasin  (the  familiar  Arabic  kadi).1 
The  sophetlm  in  the  Book  of  Judges  are  the 
champions  or  deliverers  of  Israel ;  the  term  is 
synonymous  with  mdlek,  "  king,"  in  Hos.  7  7,  Ps.  2  10, 
and  as  an  official  title  of  the  chief  magistrate  or 
consul  in  Phoenician  cities  is  interpreted  "  king  "  by 
the  Greeks.2  A  noteworthy  exception  to  these  terms 
is  the  specific  designation  day y an  (Heb.  and  Aram.), 
corresponding  to  the  Babylonian  da-a-nu,  da-ia-nu ; 
it  is,  however,  extremely  rare,  and  appears  only  in 
Ps.  68  5  (e)  and  i  Sam.  24  15  (16) ;  even  in  the 
latter  passage  it  is  questionable  whether  it  belongs 
to  the  original  text.3 

That  a  professional  class  of  judges  did  not  exist 
is  also  borne  out  by  the  fact  that  we  find  no  mention 
of  them  in  the  oldest  Israel  law-book,  the  Book  of  \ 
the    Covenant    (Exod.    21  -23), 4  and    the   story    of/ 
Naboth  (i  Kings  21)  shews  that  in  the  middle  of  I 

1  From  Judg.  5  14,  Sayce  (Early  History  of  the  Hebrews,  p.  121 
sq.}  wrongly  argues  that  there  were  lawgivers  in  the  oldest  period  of 
the    Hebrew  settlement.      There  would    be  no  object    in  lawgivers 
coming  to  a  military  assembly.      The  kastn   is  a  petty  ruler ;    cp. 
Is.  3  6  sq.,  22  3  (in  Mic.  3  i,  9,  parallel  with  "  head,"  ray)- 

2  Meyer,  EBL  "Phoenicia,"  §  16  ;  Moore,  ib.  "Judges,"  §  i. 

8  The  LXX.  reads,  "May  the  Lord  be  a  judge  and  arbiter,"  and 
Budde  (Samuel,  ad  loc.)  rightly  suspects  that  dayyan  is  an  addition. 
For  the  sake  of  completeness  mention  must  also  be  made  of  pillel,  to 
mediate,  arbitrate;  cp.  pelilah,  an  umpire's  work,  Is.  16  3,  in  late 
Hebrew  a  matter  for  judgment  (i.q.  Hebr.  pelilt). 

4  In  Ex.  21  22  the  text  is  corrupt.  The  judges  do  not  appear  in 
i/.  30,  where  some  reference  to  them  would  certainly  be  expected. 
i  Sam.  7  16  sq.  8  cannot  be  taken  as  evidence  for  judicial  authorities 
in  early  times  ;  the  passages  are  late. 


56  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  in 

•the  eighth  century  judicial  functions  still  lay  in  the 
hands  of  the  aristocracy  and  elders.  Appeal  could 
be  made  to  the  head  of  the  state,  and  the  readiness 
with  which  a  complainant  could  gain  the  king's  ear 
is  illustrated  by  the  story  of  the  woman  of  Tekoa 
(2  Sam.  144  «$W-)>  and  the  judgment  of  Solomon 
(i  Ki.  3  I6-28).1  But  as  long  as  judicial  powers 
continued  to  be  exercised  by  the  nobles  and  highest 
of  the  land,  there  was  no  higher  authority  to  whom 
to  appeal  against  injustice,  and  the  passionate  outcry 
of  the  prophets  against  the  unjust  dealings  of  the 
royal  families  of  the  land  (Is.  1  23,  Jer.  21  n  sg.t 
Mi.  89)  stands  in  unpleasant  contrast  with  Baby- 
lonia, where  Hammurabi,  as  his  letters  shew  us, 
investigated  the  suits  of  his  poorest  subjects,  and  did 
not  hesitate  to  reverse  the  decisions  of  his  governors. 
The  system  of  electing  subordinate  judges  under 
the  control  of  a  supreme  central  authority  was  an 
innovation  in  Israel.  Tradition  itself  realised  that 
it  was  not  part  of  the  desert  heritage,  and  ascribed 
its  initiation  to  the  Midianite  Jethro,  the  father-in- 

Jaw  of  Moses  (Ex.  18),  or  to  Moses  himself  (Deut. 
1  9  sqq.).  The  system  is  practically  one  adapted 

I  for  administrative  purposes,2  and  whereas,  according 

1  Cp.  also  2  Sam.  15  2  sqq.>  2  Ki.  15  5.      In  the  Amarna  Tablets 
(25  30-34,  45)  the  king  of  Alasia  (Cyprus)  uses  his  good  offices  for  the 
return  of  the  property  of  one  of  his  citizens  who  had  died  in  Egypt. 

2  The   traces  of  a  parallel  account  in  Nu.  11  are  too  obscure  to 
build  upon  with  certainty.     The  divisions  into  thousands,  hundreds, 
fifties,  and  tens  scarcely  originated  in  Babylonia,  where  the  unit  was 
sixty  ;  Assyrian  texts,  however,  according  to  Sayce,  speak  of  captains 
of  fifty  and  ten  (Early  History  of  the  Hebrews^  p.  191). 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       57 

to  the  Elohist  in  the  former  passage,  Moses  chooses! 
the  officers,  the  Deuteronomist  leaves  the  choice  to  I 
the  people,  and  Moses  only  charges  them  with  theirj^ 
duties.     The  practice  of  referring  difficult  or  con- 
tested cases  to  a  supreme  head  is  similar  to  that 
which    the     Chronicler    ascribes    to     Jehoshaphat 
(2  Chron.  19),  and  it  is  upheld  by  the  Deuteronomist, 
who  emphatically  insists  upon  the  sanctity  of  the 
priests'  decisions  (Deut.  16  18-20,  17  8-13).    The  actual  j 
date  of  its  introduction  is  uncertain.     At  all  events, 
the  "elders"  (zekenlm)  had  been  in  possession  of  a 
certain  amount  of  judicial  authority,  which  they  still 
partly   retain   in   the   time   of   the    Deuteronomist 
(Deut.  19  12,  22  15  sq.\     It   is  about  the  period  of" 
Josiah's  reformation,  or  a  little  later,  that  the  priests, 
who   are    the    natural    intermediaries    whenever   aj 
divine  decision  is  required,  begin  to  receive  greater \ 
powers.     In    Deuteronomy   they   investigate   legal 
cases,  and  the  evident  attempt  to  place  them  upon 
equal  footing  with  the  judges  (19  17  sq.\  together 
with   the  emphasis   laid    upon   the   inviolability  of 
their   decrees   (179^,  100,  n^),  and  the  consequent 
weakening  of  the  authority  of  the  elders,  suggest 
that  a  change  in  Israelite  legal  procedure  is  intro- 
duced,  which    is    not    improbably    foreign    to    the 
original  scope  of  that  law-book.1 

In  Babylonia,  in  addition  to  the  judges,  it  would 
appear  that  law  could  be  dispensed  by  the  civil 
governors  and  the  priests,  and  Sayce  remarks  that 

1  See    The  Hexateuch  (ed.   Carpenter   and    Harford-Battersby), 
vol.  2,  notes  on  Deut.  178,  19  17  sq.,  21  2,  5. 


58  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  m 

in  certain  cases,  where  foreigners  were  involved, 
"the  elders"  of  the  city  take  their  place  among 
their  judges.1  According  to  the  same  authority, 
the  judges  probably  went  on  circuit,  but  this  appears 
to  be  only  an  assumption  from  the  allusion  to 
Samuel's  activity  in  i  Sam.  7  16,  and  the  "  royal 
judges"  of  Persia ;}  in  Egypt,  however,  the  circuit 
system  appears  to  be  vouched  for  in  Ptolemaic 
times,  and  Moret  finds  indications  of  this  early 
attempt  to  centralise  justice  as  early  as  the  twelfth 
dynasty.2 

Difficult  cases  are  referred  to  a  divine  authority. 
The  god  is  a  "giver  of  decisions."3  The  Arabs  of 
different  clans  sank  all  differences,  and  accepted 
Mohammed's  decisions  by  reason  of  his  divine 
authority ;  in  Israelite  tradition,  the  Hebrews  of 
the  twelve  tribes  came  to  Moses  for  the  statutes 
and  laws  of  God ;  and  when  written  laws  are  intro- 
duced, they  receive  their  authority  by  being  ascribed 
to  an  Ea,  the  god  of  culture,  or  a  Samas,  the  god 
[of  law  and  justice.  In  Babylonia,  from  the  earliest 
times,  we  find  that  the  "gate"  was  the  place  where 
justice  was  administered.  One  contract- tablet 
speaks  of  litigant  parties  repairing  to  the  judges, 
who  bring  them  to  the  gate  (bab)  of  the  goddess 

1  Babylonians  and  Assyrians,  p.  198  sq.       On  the  sibutu  (KB 
423,  I-  2 5,  25,  1.  23),  cp.  below,  p.  69,  n.  I. 

2  Maspero,   Ree.   de    Travaux,  new  series,   1  44-49  (1895).     Ac- 
cording to  Erman  (Life  in  Ancient  Egypt,  p.  87),  the  administration 
of  justice  was  thus  centralised  even  under  the  Old  Empire. 

3  Rel.  Sem.®  p.  70  ;  cp.  n.  2. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       59 

Nin-marki,  where  they  duly  give  evidencej  elsewhere 
the  scene  is  the  gate  of  the  god  Nun-gal,  the  house 
of  Samas  or  the  gate  of  Samas,  and  the  house  of 
Marduk.1  The  sanctuary  is  specifically  an  appropri- 
ate place,  since  the  solemn  oath,  taken  in  doubtful 
cases  or  for  the  confirmation  of  the  evidence,  is  \ 
made  before  the  deity  or  his  representative.2 
Similarly  in  Israel  the  place  of  resort  for  judgment 
might  be  a  sacred  site — the  three  places  visited  by 
Samuel  had  the  reputation  of  sanctity  (i  Sam.  7  16, 
cp.  LXX.) — but  in  ordinary  cases  the  presence  of 
witnesses  was  all  that  was  required,  and  the  city 
gate,  then  as  now  the  scene  of  business  activity, 
served  the  purpose  of  a  law-court  (Job  297^^.). 
It  was  not  difficult  to  collect  ten  men  of  repute  and 
standing  to  act  as  witnesses  (Ruth  42),  and  legal 
contracts  were  unnecessary.  It  strikes  one  as  quite 
in  accordance  with  the  business  instincts  of  the 
Babylonians  that  out  of  the  primitive  system  of 
administering  justice  at  the  gates  in  the  presence  of 
witnesses,  the  evidence  being  attested  by  an  oath, 
they  should  have  developed  the  practice  of  building 

1  Meissner,  op.  tit.  (below),  nos.  43,  78  sq.,  100,  no. 

2  So,  in  CH,  §  9,  where  stolen  property  is  found  in  the  hands  of 
another,  the  witnesses  for  the  accuser  (who  know  the  lost  property) 
and  for  the  accused  (who  testify  that  the  article  was  bought  in  their 
presence)  say  out  "  before  God  "  what  they  know,  and  the  judge  gives 
his  decision.     The  disputed  object  is  usually  brought  and  deposited 
with  the  god  (Meissner,  Beitr.  z.  altbab.  Privatrecht,  p.   5).      For 
illustrations  of  modern  procedure  among  the  Bedouin,  see  Palmer, 
Desert  of  the  Exodus,  1  87  (1871) ;  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,  1903, 
pp.  252  sq.,  259  sgq. 


60  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  m 

temples  at  these  places,  in  order  that  the  oath  might 
be  taken  under  the  most  sacred  surroundings.  The 
primitive  Bedouin  of  to-day  considers  a  solemn 
attestation  sufficient  in  ordinary  disputes — mercantile 
pursuits,  one  imagines,  had  seriously  corrupted  the 
inherited  simplicity  of  the  Babylonians. 

The  Code  of  Hammurabi  is  quite  in  touch  with 
early  Semitic  custom  when,  under  certain  circum- 
stances where  independent  evidence  is  not  avail- 
able, it  lays  down  that  a  man  must  appear  "  before 
x  God  "  (mahar  Him),  or  undergo  an  ordeal.  To  be 
more  specific,  the  solemn  attestation  applies  to  a 
man  who  has  been  robbed  and  the  thief  remains  at 
large  (§  23),  to  a  shipowner  whose  ship  is  lost 
(§  240),  to  a  merchant  who  would  regain  the  price 
he  paid  for  slaves  (§281),  to  depositors  whose 
deposits  have  been  lost  whilst  in  the  keeping  of 
another  (§§  120,  126).  In  every  case  the  man  who 
•  would  recover  his  property  (money  or  goods)  must 
(  assess  his  loss  ''before  God."  A  similar  procedure 
is  to  be  observed  when  a  man  would  clear  himself 
of  a  charge.  Thus,  a  man  from  whom  a  fugitive 
slave  has  escaped  (§  20),  an  agent  who  is  robbed  of 
his  merchant's  goods  (§  103),  the  herdsman  who  has 
hired  an  ox,  which  dies  by  a  "  stroke  of  God " 
whilst  under  his  care  (§  249),  the  wife  who  is  falsely 
accused  of  adultery  (§  131) — these  may  protest  their 
innocence  and  go  free.  Analogous  to  the  above 
are  the  cases  where  an  agent  who  accuses  a  merchant 
of  wronging  him  puts  him  to  account  "before  God 
and  witnesses"  (§  106  sq.)t  and  where  the  shepherd, 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       61 

whose  sheep  are  killed  by  a  "  stroke  of  God"  or  a 
lion,  "  declares  his  innocence  (or  purges  himself) 
before  God  "  (§  266).  Here  also  may  be  mentioned 
the  two  instances  where  the  man  who  has  wounded 
another,  or  the  brander  who  has  made  an  indelible 
mark  upon  a  slave,  may  swear  that  the  act  was  not 
done  "  wittingly  J>1  (§§  206,  227). 

In  early  Hebrew  law,  in  the  Book  of  Covenant, 
we  may  also  distinguish  two  methods.  The  man 
from  whose  keeping  a  neighbour's  deposit  is  stolen 
can  resort  "to  God"  (elotwm)  to  clear  himself  (Ex. 
22;  sq.\  and  in  like  manner  a  suspected  herdsman 
can  take  the  "  oath  of  Yah  we"  (sebu'ath  Yahwe) 
that  he  has  not  put  his  hands  to  his  neighbour's 
goods,  and  go  free  (Ex.  22  10  sq.).  These  corre- 
spond to  the  second  series  in  the  CH  (cp.  especially 
§§  1  20,  266),  and  are  evidently  different  from  the 
law  in  Ex.  22  9,  which  is  couched  in  the  -  most 
general  terms,  and  possibly  does  not  refer  to 
deposit,  but  to  stolen  property.  Here,  it  is  not  the 
accused  alone  who  comes  to  filohlm  to  clear  himself 
of  suspicion,  but  the  passage  deals  with  a  dispute 
between  two  parties  whose  case  is  brought  to  the 
"god  of  decisions"  for  his  judgment  (cp.  i  Sam. 
2  250).  It  is  the  procedure  which  underlies  the/ 
ordeal. 

In  the  old  contract-tablets  the  depositions  are 
made  before  (mahar)  witnesses,  and  the  parties  to 


1  ina   i-du-U)  "  with   knowledge  "  ;    cp.  bi-beli  ddath,  Deut.  4  42, 
etc.  (the  later  equivalent  being  bi-segagati). 


62  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  HI 

:  the  suit  swear  by  (nis)  the  principal  deities  and  the 
I  reigning  sovereign.1  In  Egypt,  a  similar  oath  by 
the  name  of  the  Pharaoh  was  frequent.  A  man 
swore  "by  Amon,  by  the  prince  whose  spirits  are 
dead,  by  Pharaoh  my  lord,"  and  the  "  king's  oath," 
as  it  was  called,  was  usually  followed  by  an  impreca- 
tion. "  May  I  have  a  hundred  strokes,  or  give  me 
over  to  the  crocodile,"  maiming,  and  exile  to  the 
mines  of  Ethiopia,  figure  among  the  oaths  sworn  by 
Egyptian  suspects.2  The  old  Hebrew  methods  of 
oath-taking  are  too  well  known  to  need  repeating.3 
At  the  present  day,  point  may  be  given  to  an  oath 
by  the  addition  of  such  a  wish  as,  "  He  who  lies  may 
none  be  born  to  him."4 
*The  oath  of  purgation,  which  thus  allows  the 

1  E.g.,  by  Nannar,  Marduk,  and  Hammurabi  (KB  4  21),  or  even 
by  the  king  alone  (ib.  4  25).     According  to  Meissner  (Beitr.  z.  altbab. 
Privatrecht,  p.  5),  the  oath  is  taken  by  the  name    of  the  tutelary 
deity  of  the  city,  the  principal  deity  of  the  land,  and  other  gods, 
sometimes  even  by  the  name  of  the  native  city  of  the  contracting 
parties.     The  practice  is  found  as  late  as  the  time  of  Darius. 

2  Spiegelberg,  Studien  u.  Materialien  z.  Rechtswesen  d.  Pharaonen- 
reiches  (Hanover,  1892),  pp.  70-77  (p.  75,  "  To  him  was  the  king's 
oath  given  to  say  no  lies,  he  [said]  Ethiopia  ") ;  Arbeiter  und  Arbeiter- 
bewegung  im   Pharaonen-reich   unter  den   Ramessiden  (Strassburg, 
1895)5  P-  20. 

3  See  EBi.  art.    "Oath."     The   later   post-biblical    usages  are 
illustrated    in   the    Mishnah   (tract.   Shebuotfi),  where    some  of  the 
formulae  are  given.     An  accused  protests  his  innocence.     The  accuser 
says,  "I  adjure  thee."     If  the  man  replies  "Amen,"  and  is  proved 
guilty,  he  is  culpable.     "  Amen  "  is  thus  the  legal  term  with  which 
the  accused  expresses  his  readiness  to  accept  the   adjuration  (cp. 
Hogg,  Jewish  Quarterly  Review ',  1896,  p.  17). 

4  Ewing,  PEFQ,  1895,  p.  172  sq. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       63 

accused  to  clear  himself  of  an  imputed  crime  by 
swearing  that  the  charge  is  false,  is  regarded  as 
entirely  efficacious,  since  the  deity  in  whose  presence 
it  is  taken  is  confidently  expected  to  avenge  himself 
upon  the  perjurer.1  Primarily  the  ceremony  is  per- 
formed in  a  holy  place  before  the  god  himself,  or  it 
may  be  in  the  presence  of  the  priest,  the  authorised 
intermediary  of  the  god.  The  practice  recorded  by 
a  writer  of  the  Deuteronomic  age,  in  accordance 
with  which  a  man  could  swear  his  innocence  before 
Yahwe's  altar  at  Jerusalem  (i  Kings  831  sg.),  in 
earlier  days,  before  the  institution  of  the  central 
sanctuary,  must  have  been  customary  at  every  shrine 
or  holy  place.  To  take  the  name  of  Yahwe  falsely, 
therefore,  was  to  perjure  one's  self.  Under  the 
Deuteronomic  reformation  the  oath  of  purgation 
would  be  taken  before  the  authorised  officials  (Deut. 
19  17),  even  as  among  the  Bedouins  of  the  present 
day  it  may  be  made  before  the  sheikh.2  From  this 
oath  we  must  of  course  distinguish  the  curse  which 
the  victim  of  a  theft  calls  down  upon  the  thief,  or 
the  adjuration,  equally  based  upon  a  belief  in  the 

1  ReL  Sem.  p.  480;  cp.  Jaussen,  Rev.  Biblique,  1903,  p.  259  (a 
guilty  Bedouin  agrees  to  take  an  oath  \Jialifd\  at  a  holy  tomb,  but 
on  his  way,  fearing  the  possible  consequences,  is  filled  with  terror 
and  confesses). 

2  An  interesting  development  of  the  oath  taken  in  a  holy  place  is 
recorded  by  Baldensperger,  where  two  parties  arranged  to  settle  a 
dispute  and  agreed  to  swear  by  St.  George  (PEFQ,  1897,  p.  131). 
To  avoid  the  trouble  of  dressing  in  festival  clothes  and  repairing  to 
his  shrine,  it  was  decided  to  make  a  mark  on  the  ground  to  represent 
the  saint's  abode  ("  He  is  over  against  us  but  can  be  present  just  as 
well"). 


64  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  in 

efficacy  of  the  curse,  which  solemnly  calls  upon  any 
man  who  has  knowledge  of  the  offence  to  say  all 
that  he  knows. 

The  belief  that  the  deity  punishes  the  guilty  one 
who  swears  that  a  charge  is  false  is  intimately  con- 
nected with  the  theory  of  the  ordeal  where  it  is  left 
to  him  to  indicate  in  some  recognisable  manner 
whether  a  man  is  guilty  or  not.  Instead  of  the  oath 
of  purgation  a  test  is  employed.  The  Code  of 
Hammurabi  uses  it  only  in  two  cases,  and  on  each 
occasion  it  is  by  water.  The  river-god  (ilu  Naru) 
has  to  decide  whether  a  man  upon  whom  a  spell  has 
been  cast  has  suffered  unjustly  (§  2),  and  whether 
a  wife  who  has  fallen  under  the  suspicion  of  un- 
chastity  is  innocent  (§  132).  The  victim  must 
plunge  into  the  sacred  element,  which  overpowers 
(the  guilty  and  saves  the  innocent.1  The  revenge 
taken  upon  the  impious  finds  analogies  in  the  waters 
of  the  Asbamsean  lake,  the  springs  near  Tyana,  and 
the  Stygian  waters  in  the  Syrian  desert — not  to 
speak  of  the  striking  parallel  of  the  "  waters  of 
Jealousy  "  in  Israel — which  harmed  only  the  per- 
jured.2 But  the  river-god,  instead  of  punishing  the 
wicked,  may  repudiate  them,  on  the  principle  that 
impurity  and  guilt  must  not  come  in  contact  with 

1  Dareste  (Journal  des  Savants,  1902,  p.   519,  n.  i)  notes  the 
same  principle  in  the  old  German  custom  of  testing  the  legitimacy 
of  children  by  throwing  them  into  the  water ;  one  may  compare  also 
the  Sicilian  oracle   where  the  tablet  bearing  the  oath  of  the  accused 
floated  if  true  and  sank  if  false  (Pseudo-Aristotle,  Mir.  Ausc.  57). 

2  Rel.  Sem.(z)  p.  i?9  sq. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE      65 

sacred  things.  Sp^  in_  Arabia,  those  who  were  sus- 
pected of  witchcraft — not  their  victims,  as  in  Baby- 
lonia— were  thrown  to  the  water,  and  since  the  god 
would  only  receive  the  innocent,  the  guilty  ones 
were  those  who  floated  :  the  procedure  that  has  pre- 
vailed in  dealing  with  suspected  witches  down  to 
modern  times.1  Arguing  from  the  same  point  of 
view,  the  Laws  of  Manu  allowed  a  man  to  justify 
his  oath  of  purgation  by  remaining  under  water  a 
certain  length  of  time  (8  114  sg.),  and — to  go  still 
further  away  from  the  Semitic  world — in  Burmah 
the  parties  to  a  suit  keep  their  heads  under 
water,  and  the  one  who  emerges  first  is  reckoned 
guilty.2 

Although  the  laws  in  CH  relating  to  judges  and- 
witnesses  are  few,   the  contract  -  tablets  reveal,   as  j 
might  be  expected,  a  very  advanced  system  of  pro-  / 
cedure.3     Evidence  was  drawn  up  in  legal  form  and , 
written  upon  tablets,4  and  each  case  was  examined 
with  commendable  thoroughness  (cp.  CH,  §  9).    The 
general  principle  not  to  pervert  judgment,  accept 
bribes,  or  to  show  favouritism — and  the  frequency 
with  which  these  exhortations  appear  in   the    Old 
Testament   is  an    indication  of  the   prevalence  of 
injustice  in  Israel5 — if  not  expressed  in  so  many 

1  Cp.  Wellhausen,  Arab.  Heid.®  p.   160  (on  p.    189,  however, 
those  unjustly  suspected  of  witchcraft  float}. 

2  Frazer,  Pausanias,  3  388  (other  water-oaths  and  tests,  4  253  sg.). 

3  Cp.  Sayce,  Babylonians  and  Assyrians,  chap.  9. 

*  Written  evidence  appears  to  be  unknown  in  Israel  until  the  time 
of  the  book  of  Job  (13  26,  31  35). 

5  Ex.  23  3,  6-8  ;  Deut.  16  19,  24  17,  27  19  ;  Lev.  19  15,  etc. 

5 


66  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  HI 

words,  at  all  events  lies  at  the  bottom  of  CH,  §  5. 
Here,  if  a  judge  has  judged  a  judgment  (sum-ma 
da-a-a-num  di-nam  i-di-in),  has  decided  a  decision 
(pu-ru-uz-za-am  ip-ru-us\  and  delivered  a  sealed 
sentence  (ku-nu-uk-kam\  and  subsequently  his 
judgment  is  annulled  (di-in-su  i-te-ni\  he  is  ordered 
to  pay  twelve  times  the  penalty  he  had  ordained 
in  his  decision,  and  is  openly  (properly,  "  in  the 
assembly,"  pukru)  thrust  from  the  bench  ;  he  cannot 
be  reinstated,  and  is  not  allowed  to  sit  in  judgment 
with  the  judges.  There  are  two  disputed  phrases 
in  the  law  as  it  stands.  In  the  first  place,  the  judg- 
ment is  presumably  annulled  by  an  appeal,  either  to 
a  fresh  court  or  to  the  king  himself.  In  the  con- 
temporary letters  of  Hammurabi  and  his  dynasty, 
the  king  is  frequently  appealed  to  either  directly  or 
after  a  case  had  been  tried  at  the  local  courts.  In 
one  instance  the  litigants,  having  failed  for  two  years 
to  obtain  justice  at  Sippar,  apply  to  the  king,  who 
gives  orders  for  the  defendant  and  the  ''witnesses 
who  have  knowledge  of  his  case "  to  be  brought 
to  him  at  Babylon  for  judgment.  In  another  we 
find  Hammurabi  investigating  a  charge  of  bribery 
against  one  of  his  officials;  he  confiscates  "the  money 
or  whatsoever  was  offered  as  the  bribe,"  and  com- 
mands the  men  who  had  taken  it  and  the  witnesses 
to  be  sent  to  him  for  trial.1  On  the  other  hand, 
Scheil  and  Johns  render,  "if  .  .  .  he  has  annulled 
(altered)  his  judgment,"  which  seems  hardly  natural, 
since  the  judge,  however  much  of  a  partisan,  would 

1  King,  Letters  of  Hammurabi ',  821  sq.,  136. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE       67 

scarcely  go  back  from  his  written  verdict.  It  is 
possible  that  the  law  refers  to  judicial  error,  but  the 
penalty  and  subsequent  punishment  would  be 
excessively  severe.1  In  the  second  place,  the 
"  twelve-fold  "  (a-du  12  su)  penalty  has  been  dis- 
puted, and  Winckler,  in  his  edition  of  the  Code, 
understands  it  to  mean  that  the  penalty  consists  of 
the  sum  (in  the  judgment)  together  with  J§,  that  is 
to  say,  an  additional  20  per  cent.  The  addition  of 
a  fifth  —  as  in  late  Israelite  law  (Lev.  65,  271519; 
Num.  5  7)  —  is  suggestive,  but  there  are  serious 
objections  against  this  view.2 

Next,  attempts  to  intimjfintP  thg   Ti>j^n^iig^gi    rkr 


severely  punished,  and  if  it  be  a  life  or  death  case 
(di-iri  na-bi-is-tim),  the  offender  is  killed  (§  3). 
Bribery  is  rigorously  discountenanced,  and  the  man 
who  has  offered  corn  or  money  is  punished  by  being 
made  to  bear  the  penalty  of  the  judgment  (a-ra-an 
di-nim,  §  4).  In  Israel,  false  witness,  prohibited 
among  the  additions  to  the  Book  of  the  Covenant 
(Ex.  23s)  and  in  the  Decalogue,  is  punished  under 
the  Deuteronomic  code  in  the  same  manner  as  in 
CH  :  "  You  shall  do  unto  him  as  he  purposed  to  do 
to  his  brother  "  (Deut.  19  19)  ;  but  one  can  scarcely 
conclude  that  the  law  which  is  aimed  at  repressing 
false  accusations  (denounced  in  general  terms  in 

1  In  the  case  of  a  judge  who  has  not  acted  in  good  faith,  later 
Jewish  law  required  a  sacrifice  (Mishnah,  Horaioth,  1  5,  etc.). 

2  See  Joh.  Jeremias,  Moses  und  Hammurabi,  p.  25,  n.  2  ;  Orelli, 
Gesetz  Hammurabis,  p.  47. 


68  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  in 

Ex.  23  i)  owed  its  origin  to  Babylonia.  The  same 
ruling  held  good  in  Egypt,  and,  indeed,  the  principle 
of  the  talio  has  prevailed  in  all  primitive  judicial 
systems.  The  Deuteronomic  law  is  preceded  by 
one  in  accordance  with  which  serious  crimes  re- 
quired the  concurrent  evidence  of  "  two  or  three " 
witnesses  as  proof  of  guilt  (v.  15),  particularly  in  all 
capital  cases  (cp.  Num.  35  30  ;  Deut.  17  6).  The 
procedure  is  frequently  referred  to  in  the  New 
Testament  (Matt.  18  16,  26  60 ;  2  Cor.  13  i ;  i  Tim. 
5  19),  and  must  have  been  general,  since  it  finds  a 
place  in  the  Syro  -  Roman  law  -  book  of  the  fifth 
century,  which  actually  preserves  the  same  loose 
wording,  "two  or  three."1  In  the  last-mentioned 
collection  of  laws,  the  penalty  for  unjust  accusation 
is,  as  is  to  be  expected,  based  upon  the  talio:  "As 
he  (the  accuser)  would  do  unto  his  companion,  so 
shall  it  be  done  unto  him.  " 2 

Legal  disqualifications  of  certain  persons  to  act 
either  as  judges  or  witnesses,  and  the  more  minute 
details  of  judicial  procedure,  do  not  appear  to  be 
codified  before  the  time  of  the  Mishnah.3  The 
Syrian  law-book  requires  witnesses  to  be  freedmen 

1  Bruns    and    Sachau,   Syrisch-Romisches   Rechtsbuch    aus   dem 
funften  Jahrhundert  (Leipsic,  1880),  p.  106. 

2  Op.  tit.  p.   70  (no.   75).     Examples   of  the  minuteness  of  the 
post-biblical  Jewish  rules  relating  to  false  evidence  may  be  seen  in  the 
Jewish  Encyclopedia^  1  394^. 

3  Cp.   also  the  fulness   of  detail   in  the  Mohammedan  systems 
(abstract  by  Kohler,  Rechtsvergleich.  Stud.  pp.  149-161).     According 
to  Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8 15),  there  must  be  three  or  at  least  two  witnesses, 
reliable  men  ;  neither  women  nor  slaves  are  admitted. 


CHAP,  in     ELEMENTS  OF  LAW  AND  PROCEDURE      69 

and  trustworthy,  not  slaves,  men  who  have  never 
been  convicted  of  misdeeds — theft,  robbery,  sorcery 
(Syr.  harrasutha),  and  the  like — "who  have  not  been 
guilty  of  objuration  "  (?  efa>/Aoer/a),  and  are  not  rela- 
tions, friends,  or  business  associates  of  the  parties. 
In  Babylonia  witnesses  appear  to  have  formed  an 
official  class ; 1  since  every  act  of  business,  legal  or 
otherwise,  had  to  be  set  down  in  contracts,  reputed 
and  qualified  men  were  doubtless  in  frequent  demand 
as  witnesses. 

The  Babylonian  system  of  judicial  procedure,  it  1 
would  appear,  did  not  leave  its  stamp  upon  early  ' 
Israelite  institutions.     Both   share,   it   is   true,    the 
sacred  oath  and  the  ordeal,  but  these  are  common 
Semitic  property,  and  are  by  no  means  confined  to 
the  Semitic  field.     The  denunciation  of  false  witness  \ 
does  not  become  codified  until  the  time  of  Deuter-  \ 
onomy,    at   a   period   when    the    administration    of 
justice  was  reconstructed  and  centralised.     On  the 
other  hand,  the  precautionary  rule   that    "  two   or  / 
three "    witnesses   are   required    in   criminal   cases,  I 
although  fairly  widespread,  does  not  find  a  place  in_ 
Babylonian  law. 

Procedure,  as  we  learn  from  the  legal  documents 
of  the  great  law -suit  under  Rameses  IX.  (twelfth 
century  B.C.),  was  no  less  developed  in  Egypt. 
Officers,  appointed  by  the  government,  sat  in  judg- 

1  slbH(ti\  "witness"  (abstract  stbutu\  properly  the  elders  or 
"greybeards"  (cp.  Heb.  sebah1\  corresponding  to  the  sheikhs  or 
zekemm  (above) ;  cp.  Joh.  Jeremias,  Moses  u.  Hammurabi,  p.  29  ; 
Meissner,  Beitr.  2.  altbab.  Private,  pp.  5  sq.,  95). 


70  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  m 

!  ment  daily,  and  received  their  salary  from  the  fees 
paid  by  litigants.     The  evidence,  as  in  Babylonia, 
was  in  writing,   and  could  be  extracted  from  un- 
willing lips  by  torture — a  method   apparently   un- 
known in  Babylonia.1     Under  the  New  Empire  the 
jcourts  of  justice  differ  in  name  and  constitution  from 
/those  of  the  Old.     The  judges  were  largely  priests, 
/supported  by  permanent  officials,  including  a  scribe, 
\but  the  composition  of  the  court  varied  considerably.2 
The  contrast  between  the  methods  that  prevailed  in 
Egypt    and    Babylonia    and    the    simple    primitive 
"courts"  of  the  early    Arabians    and    Israelites    is 
thus    sufficiently   striking,    and   we    are   now   in   a 
position  to  consider  more  closely  the  principles  of 
common   and   statute   law   as   they   appear   in   the 
ancient  and  modern  Semitic  world. 

1  Torture  is  rarely  practised  among  the  Bedouin  of  the  desert 
(cp.,  however,  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  14). 

2  Erman,  Life  in  Ancient  Egypt,  pp.  130  sqq. 


CHAPTER   IV 

THE   FAMILY 

Position  of  women  —  Marriage-types  —  Marriage  by  purchase — 
Details — "  Breach  of  promise  " — Modifications  of  purchase- 
system — Laws  of  the  dowry  and  marriage-settlement — Survivals 
of  earlier  conditions — Wife's  position  in  the  family. 

IN  the  primitive  Semitic  social  system,  where  the* 
full-born  members  were  on  equal  footing  one  with 
another,  sharing   their   losses   and   gains,   the   clan 
was  no  other  than  a  family  on  a  large  scale,  the 
position  of  its  "elders"  corresponding  with  that  of_ 
the  heads  of  the  various  families.     To  gauge  the 
character  of  the  Semitic  family,  we  must  understand-, 
the  position  assigned  to  woman.     We  must  ascertain 
whether  she  is  a  free  agent  or  whether  she  is  always 
in  the  power  of  her  husband  or  her  male  relations ; 
whether  she  .  is   on  an  equal   footing  with  man   in 
matters  relating  to  marriage,  inheritance,  and  business, 
or    whether   she    is   denied   all    independence    and 
authority.      Is  she  numbered  among  the  chattels  of 
her  husband,  or  is  she  his  compeer?     In  Babylonia,! 
we  find  that  the  woman  could  trade  and  do  business,  I . 
whether    on   her   own   account   or   in    partnership,  \ 


72  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

/she  could  appear  independently  in  the  law-courts 
fas  witness  or  as  plaintiff,  she  could  hold  private 
1  property  and  dispose  of  it  as  she  pleased,.  Fr. 
Qejitzsch,  who  contrasts  the  position  of  woman  in 
Babylonia  with  her  Israelite  sister,  much  to  the 
disadvantage  of  the  latter,  would  attribute  this 
"freedom  and  independence  to  the  civilising  influence 
of  the  non- Semitic  Sumerians,1  and  Sayce,  too, 
observes  that  whereas  "  in  the  old  Sumerian  hymns 
the  woman  takes  precedence  of  the  manjthe  Semitic 
translation  invariably  reverses  the  order :  the  one 
has  'female  and  male,'  the  other  'male  and  female,' 
and  this  is  reflected  in  the  position  of  the  goddess 
I  star,  who,  originally  a  goddess,  the  equal  of  the 
god,  became  changed  into  a  male  deity  in  Southern 
Arabia  and  Moab." 2  But  it  will  ultimately  be  made 

1  Babel  and  Bible ',  p.  202  :  "  The  woman  [in  Israel]  is  the  property 
of  her  parents,  and,   later  on,  of  her  husband;  she  is  a  valuable 
element  for  purposes  of  work,  on  whom,  in  married  life,  a  large  part 
of  the  hardest  business  of  the  home  is  imposed ;  above  all,  she  is,  as 
in  Islam,  incompetent  to  take  part  in  the  practice  of  the  cultus.     In 
the  case  of  the  Babylonians  all  this  was  managed  differently  and 
better.  ...   It  is  just  in  the  domain  of  questions  concerning  women 
that  it  can  clearly  be  seen  how  profoundly  Babylonian  culture  had  been 
influenced  by  the  non-Semitic  civilisation  of  the  Sumerians." 

2  Babylonians   and  Assyrians,   p.    13   sq.  ;    cp.   Barton,    Semitic 
Origins,  pp.   123  sq.,   140  sqq.     The  reversal  of  the  order  "female 
and  male"  would  if  anything  indicate  that  the  Assyrians  had  less 
chivalry  than  the  Israelites;  cp.    "mother   and  father,"  Lev.   19s 
21  2 — the    mother's    love    for    her    children  is    surpassed    only  by 
Yahwe's    tenderness    for   his    people  (Is.   49  15,  66  13).      But    the 
argument  is  not  conclusive  ;  cp.  "  father  and  mother  "  in  the  Book  of 
the  Covenant  (Ex.  21  15,  17).     The  tenth  commandment  in  Ex.  20  17 
includes  the  wife   in    the  husband's   possessions,  whilst  Deut.   621 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  73 

clear  that  the  woman,  notwithstanding  this,  is  the 
legal  chattel  of  the  man  even  in  the  Code  of 
Hammurabi,  and  when  all  the  evidence  has  been 
reviewed,  it  will  be  found  that  her  position  is  scarcely 
more  independent  than  it  was  in  early  Arabian  life.. 
The  theory,  therefore,  of  a  Sumerian  (non-Semitic) 
state  of  culture  where  woman's  position  was  perfectly 
independent  (matriarchy  ?)  must  be  regarded  as 
questionable  for  the  present. 

Now  the  stages  in  the  evolution  of  human 
marriage  are  still  far  from  intelligible,  and  the  results 
of  investigators  in  this  line  of  research  tend  to  show 
that  it  is  impossible  to  lay  down  specific  laws  of 
universal  application.  The  fundamental  idea  in  CH 
is  the  familiar  Semitic  view  that  marriage  is  in- 
stituted for  the  legal  perpetuation  of  the  husband's 
name  and  estate,  and  that  the  woman  is  a  property 
which  can  be  acquired  by  purchase,  in  return  for 
which  the  buyer  receives  full  marital  rights.  This 
type  of  marriage,  which  Robertson  Smith  styles  bcCal 
marriage  or  marriage  of  dominion,1  has  prevailed 
among  the  Semites  in  historical  times,  but,  as  the 
same  scholar  has  proved,  is  none  the  less  far  from,/ 
being  the  primitive  type  among  them.  The  earlier 
types,  survivals  of  which  are  not  unknown  among 

separates  her  from  the  house,  field,  and  servants  (on  the  text,  cp. 
Proceedings  of  Society  of  Biblical  Archaeology,  1903,  pp.  43,  53). 
Originally  the  commandment  probably  ran  simply,  "  Thou  shalt  not 
covet  thy  neighbour's  house,"  the  rest  being  an  explanatory  addition 
(EBi.  col.  1049;  Burkitt,  Jewish  Quarterly  Review,  1903,  p.  405). 
1  Kinship^  p.  92. 


74  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

the  Bedouin  of  later  times,  may  be  characterised  as 
temporary   monandrous    marriages.      The    woman 
occupies  a  position  of  equality  and  dignity,  and  is 
quite  at  liberty  to  dispose  of  herself  as  she  pleases. 
Her  independence  is  such  that  she  is  allowed  to 
receive   as   her  suitor   whomsoever    she    will ;   the 
marriage  may  be  of  greater  or  less  duration,  accord- 
ing to  circumstances  over  which  she  is  mistress,  and 
the  children  of  the  union  remain  in  her  care  and 
belong  to  her  tribe.     Without  going   into   further 
Detail,  it  is  enough  to  observe  how  utterly  different 
/  such  a  type  of  marriage  is  from  the  bctal  marriage,  the 
;  characteristic  feature  of  which  lies  in  the  fact  that  the 
;  woman  is  not  a  free  agent,  but  is  handed  over  to  a 
•   man  in  return  for  a  payment. 

Marriage  by  purchase  can  take  its  rise  in  that 
stage  of  society  where  the  life  is  pastoral  or  agri- 
cultural, and  where  individual  property  is  in  vogue. 
It  is  purely  a  business  affair.  At  the  present  day, 
as  in  the  time  of  Hammurabi,  the  preliminaries  are 
nearly  always  arranged  by  the  parents  of  the  con- 
tracting parties.  The  initiative  is  taken  by  the 
father,  mother,  or  brothers  of  the  youth.  In  CH, 
§§  155,  1 66,  it  is  the  father  who  chooses  a  bride  for 
his  son  (cp.  Judah,  Gen.  386);  in  the  absence  of  the 
father,  it  rests  with  the  mother  (Gen.  21  2I),1  or  even 
a  trusted  servant  (Gen.  24  4).  On  the  other  side,  it 
is  for  the  nearest  relatives  of  the  girl  to  state  the 
terms  and  to  give  their  consent  (Gen.  24  50  sqq.\ 

1  Cp.  Doughty,  Arabia  Deserta^  2  89  (a  widow  buys  a  maiden 
to  bring  up  until  she  is  of  a  marriageable  age  for  her  son). 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  75 

cp.  34  8  sqq.).1  The  formula  with  which  the  pro- 
ceedings opened  has  probably  been  quite  correctly 
preserved  in  the  parable  of  Jehoash  (2  Kings  149): 
"Give  thy  daughter  to  my  son  to  wife  (issak)" 
The  girl's  consent  is  not  necessary,  and  if  occasion- 
ally asked  (as  in  Gen.  24  58),  it  was  not  required  by 
law.  In  Arabia,  Mohammedan  law  forbade  the 
guardian  (wait)  to  give  his  ward  in  marriage  without 
her  consent,  unless  she  was  under  age,  but  this  was 
an  innovation.3  A  Babylonian  father,  in  later  times 
at  least,  could  refuse  to  acknowledge  his  son's 
choice,  and  if  the  son  persisted,  could  threaten  to 
reduce  the  girl  to  servitude.4  It  is  to  be  noticed 
that  the  punishment  falls  upon  the  girl.  In  Israel, 
the  parents  might  object  to  a  distasteful  union,  but 


1  In  KB,    4  186,  the    (widowed)  mother   is   approached   by  the 
intending  bridegroom.     Similarly,  in  Ruth  3  17,  the  gift  from  Boaz  is 
for  Ruth's  mother-in-law,  her  nearest  relative. 

2  So,  in  the  New  Babylonian  contract-tablets  :  -  son  of  - 
spoke  to  -  son  of  -  :   "  Give  -  thy  daughter  (or 


daughter,  marat-kaba-tu-ul-tu}  to  my  son  -  in  marriage  "  (as-su-tu^ 
cp.  late  riebTTEfoM)  ;  see  K&  4  229,  no.  xxiii.  ;  when  the  man  makes 
the  proposal  (ib.  p.  1  87,  no.  xi.)  it  runs  :  "  -  thy  daughter  give,  my 
wife  (aSsati}  shall  she  be." 

8  Kinship^  p.  103  sq.  In  CH  only  the  seduced  daughter-in-law, 
the  widow,  the  divorced  or  deserted  wife  or  concubine,  appear  to  have 
a  right  to  marry  whom  they  please  (§§  134-137,  156,  172).  In  the 
case  of  the  suspected  wife,  the  sick  wife,  or  the  wife  divorced  for  her 
bad  conduct,  it  is  only  said  that  she  returns  to  her  father's  house, 
and  the  probability  is  that  she  was  not  free  (CH,  §§  131,  142,  149). 
4  In  other  words,  set  the  brand  of  servitude  (si-in-du  sa  amtu-u-tu) 
upon  her  ;  cp.  Marx,  Beitr.  z.  Assyriol.  4  n  ;  Kohler  and  Peiser, 
Bab.  Rechtsleben,  2  7  sqq. 


76  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

no  pressure  was  brought  to  bear  (Gen.  26  35,  27  46  ; 
Judg.  14  3). 

It  will  at  once  be  seen  that  this  type  of  marriage 
differs  entirely  from  the  so-called  sadlka  or  mo  fa 
marriage  of  early  Arabia,  which  required  no  consent 
on  the  part  of  the  woman's  father  or  guardian,  but 
was  purely  a  personal  contract  of  specified  duration.1 
Such  free  unions  were  condemned  by  later  ages  as 
equivalent  to  harlotry  ;  2  they  were  not  unknown  in 
early  Israel  (Judges  8  3i),3  and  there  is  an  interesting 
allusion  to  the  custom  in  Judges  14,  which  sub- 
sequent editors  sought  to  obscure.  As  the  opening 
of  the  narrative  now  stands,  Samson  requests  his 
parents  to  get  the  Timnathite  woman  for  him  as 
wife,  and  in  spite  of  their  objections  continues  to 
persist,  with  the  result  that  they  yield  and  go  down 
with  him  to  make  the  arrangements  (v.  5).  But 
the  bride  remains  at  Timnah,  and  the  marriage 
is  celebrated  in  the  presence  of  her  kinsmen 
and  friends  ;  obviously  it  was  not  sanctioned  by 
Samson's  parents.  A  closer  examination  shows 
that  in  the  original  tradition  Samson's  marriage  was 
a  modification  of  the  sadlka  type,  which  did  not 
require  the  intervention  of  the  parents.  Samson 
(vv.  5-7)  takes  all  the  arrangements  into  his  hands, 


pp.  79  sqq.^  84.     The  term  sadlka  is  criticised  by 
Noldeke,  ZDMG,  40  154  ;  probably  mofa  would  be  the  better  term. 

2  Cp.  Kinshipjd  pp.  85,  165  ;  Wellhausen,  Ehe,  p.  472.     There 
is  a  similar  distinction  between  marriage  by  purchase  and  voluntary 
union  in  the  Laws  of  Manu  (3  29-32). 

3  Cp.,  perhaps,  2  Sam.  17  25  (see  Budde,  ad  loc.). 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  77 

and  makes  periodical  visits  to  Timnah  (15  i).  At  a 
subsequent  date,  when  such  marriages  were  no 
longer  recognised,  the  text  was  edited  to  make  it 
appear  that  the  preliminaries  were  undertaken  by 
the  parents  (by  the  addition  of  "  and  his  father  and 
mother  "  in  v.  $a  ;  cp.  vv.  t>b,  ioa)  in  accordance  with 
what  had  become  the  prevailing  system. 

The  daughter  is  an  addition  to  her  father's 
wealth,  since  by  giving  her  in  marriage  he  is  able  to 
add  to  his  flocks  and  herds  (cp.  the  Homeric  epithet 
"  cattle-bringing  "  applied  to  girls).1  The  purchase-! 
price  is  primarily,  therefore,  a  compensation  to  the^ 
father,  and  makes  the  girl  the  property  of  her  brfal\ 
("husband,"  properly  "  owner  ").  This  applies  not 
only  to  the  Semites  of  Arabia  and  Syria,  as 
Robertson  Smith  has  proved,2  but  as  CH,  §129 
(be-el  as-sa-tim)  shews,  holds  good  also  for  Baby- 
lonia, and  from  the  various  compounds  of  be-el  in 
the  Code,  it  is  clear  that  the  Babylonian  husband 
was  as  much  the  ba'al  of  his  wife  as  he  was  the 
bcEal  of  his  slave,  house,  ox,  sheep,  field,  corn,  or 
garden  (cp.  CH,  §§  57,  59,  120,  229,  245,  266,  281). 
The  price  paid  to  the  parents  (Bab.  tirhatu,  but 
Heb.  mohar,  Ar.  mahr,  Syr.  mahra)  is  originally 
quite  distinct  from  the  donatio  propier  nuptias  (Bab. 
t,  which  the  husband  makes  over  to  the 


1  Kinship^  p.  96.     So,  without  going  outside  Semitic  lands,  it  is 
interesting  to  find  that  among  the  Yezidis  the  daughter  who  refuses 
to  marry  must  compensate  her  father  (Chabot,  Journal  Asiatique^  7 
(1896),  p.  127). 

2  Op.  cit.  p.  92. 


78  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

wife,  or  the  marriage -portion  (Bab.  seriktu)  which 
the  wife  brings  with  her  from  her  home,  and  that 
among  the  Semites  it  is  simply  an  act  of  purchase 
appears  further  from  the  fact  that  the  bride  in 
Syriac  is  called  meklrta,  the  "sold,"  and  that  the 
Hebrew  'eras,  "to  espouse,  betroth"  (Deut.  20  7, 
22  23,  etc.),  also  found  in  Aramaic,  is,  properly 
speaking,  to  pay  the  price  and  so  to  gain  the  right 
of  possession.1 

The  price,  however,  was  not  necessarily  money ; 
it  was  frequently  paid  in  kind,  or  the  daughter 
ight  be  given  for  deeds  of  valour  (Josh.  15  16 ; 
Judges  1  12  ;  i  Sam.  18  25),  or  for  a  number  of  years 
of  personal  service  (Jacob  and  Laban).2  The  letters 
of  Nimmuria  to  Dusratta  and  Kallima-Sin  in  the 
Amarna  Tablets  provide  an  interesting  illustration 
of  the  preliminaries,  and  of  the  gifts  that  were 
presented  and  required  by  royal  personages.3  The 
common  people  were  more  modest  in  their  benevo- 
lence and  requirements.  The  sum  agreed  upon 
might  be  paid  in  full  or  in  instalments.  The  father 

1  The  root  has  other  meanings  of  obscure  connection,  and  it  is 
therefore  uncertain   whether  it  has   anything   to  do   with   the  late 
Hebrew    'arts,  "tiller"  (Schwally,   Christ.  Pal.  Aram.  p.   115  sq. ; 
Wellhausen,  Ehe^  p.  435,  n.  3  ;  Robertson  Smith,  Prophets^  p.  410). 
Delitzsch  (Ass.  HWH]  cites  ertsu,  "bridegroom,"  which  is  apparently 
related  to  the    above-mentioned  Hebrew  and   Aramaic  usage.      In 
Mohammedan  law  it  is  expressly  understood  that  marriage  is  a  sale 
(Kohler,  Rechtsvergleichende  Studien,  p.  22). 

2  So  at  the  present  day  a  boy  may  be  taken  as  shepherd  and 
receive  a  girl  for  his  wages  (PEFQ,  1901,  p.  76). 

3  The  tirhatu  is  mentioned  in  17  48,  58,  21  23  sq.,  23  14. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  79 

might  refuse  his  consent  until  the  whole  of  the 
stipulated  amount  has  been  paid,  or  half  might  be 
paid  down  and  the  rest  settled  upon  the  wife,  to 
be  paid  in  case  of  divorce  or  at  the  death  of  the 
husband.  Custom  varies  as  much  at  the  present 
day  as  of  old.  Among  kinsmen  the  price  might  be 
made  conveniently  small — almost  to  the  vanishing- 
point,  but  although  this  is  now  the  case  among  the 
poorest  nomads,  such  generosity  does  not  seem  to 
have  been  practised  in  early  Arabia.1  It  is  true 
that  the  sum  sometimes  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  paid  at  all,  but  it  is  possible  that  here  the 
woman  occupies  a  lower  standing.2 

In  olden  times,  no  less  than  at  the  present  day, 
there  must  have  been  innumerable  disputes  arising 
out  of  the  purchase-price,  particularly  in  the  case  of 
the  death  of  one  of  the  betrothed  pair  before  the 
marriage -ceremony.  The  Code,  of  Hammurabi, 
which  distinguishes  itself  by  giving  three  laws 
dealing  with  what  might  be  termed  "  breach  of 
promise "  actions,  makes  no  provision  for  such  a 
contingency,  no  doubt  because  the  customary  usage 
in  such  a  case  was  too  firmly  established  to  need 
any  authoritative  decision.  The  existence  of  some 
traditional  usage,  however,  is  proved  by  the  presence 
of  laws  which  have  found  their  way  into  the  famous 
Syro- Roman  law-book  of  the  fifth  century  A.D.,J 
and  thence  into  Mohammedan  legislation.  The 

1  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  I  491 ;  Kinship^  pp.  100-102. 

2  Cp.  also  Brims  and  Sachau,  Syrisch-Romisches  Rechtsbuch  aus 
dem  funften  Jahrhundert)  p.  59  (§  41^). 


8o  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

Syrian  law  presupposes  that  a  man  has  given  to  a 
girl  or  her  parents  a  ring  in  pledge  of  the  betrothal, 
'and  other  gifts.  Everything  turns  upon  the  question 
whether  the  girl  has  been  seen  or  kissed  by  the  man, 
and  this  being  granted,  in  the  case  of  death  of  one 
or  the  other,  only  half  is  to  be  returned  to  the  man 
or  his  nearest  relatives.  There  is  some  obscurity 
attached  to  the  various  versions  of  the  law  and  its 
relation  to  Roman  legal  parallels,1  which  is  probably 
due  to  its  being  a  modification  of  native  Syrian 
usage.  A  very  clear  trace  of  the  latter,  however,  is 
probably  to  be  recognised  in  the  provision  appended 
to  the  law  whereby,  if  a  girl  has  been  "  purchased  " 
in  her  absence,  and  the  complete  ceremony  has  not 
been  performed  ("her  betrothed  has  not  seen  or 
kissed  her  "),  in  the  event  of  death,  all  gifts  must  be 
returned,  with  the  exception  of  the  expenses  for 
"eating  and  drinking,"  in  which,  one  must  suppose, 
was  included  the  cost  of  some  betrothal  feast. 

According  to  the  old  Babylonian  code,  if  a  man 
has  brought  goods  (biblu)  into  the  house  of  his 
father-in-law  (emu)  and  has  given  him  the  purchase- 
money  (tirhatu),  and  has  afterwards  changed  his 
mind  (lit.  "  looked  upon  another  woman  "  [zmniftu]), 
and  says  to  his  father-in-law,  "Thy  daughter  I  will 
not  take,"  the  father-in-law  is  entitled  to  retain  all 
that  had  been  given  him  (CH,  §159).  On  the 
other  hand,  if  the  girl's  father  says,  "  My  daughter 
I  will  not  give  thee,"  he  must  return  everything  in 
full  (§  1 60).  Provision  is  even  made  where  the 

1  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  citn  pp.  259-264. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  81 

father's  decision  has  been  influenced  by  libellous 
slander  on  the  part  of  a  friend  of  the  man ;  every- 
thing must  be  returned  as  before,  but  the  slanderer 
is  not  permitted  to  take  the  girl  to  wife  (§  161). 
Among  the  modern  Bedouins,  too,  where  a  betrothal 
has  taken  place,  and  the  customary  ring  or  presents 
have  been  given  as  a  pledge,1  these  must  be  returned 
if  the  betrothal  is  annulled.2  The  Syro- Roman3"] 
law  is  as  explicit  as  the  Babylonian:  "If  a  man 
buys  a  wife  to  himself  from  her  parents  or  relations 
or  any  one  that  is  near  to  her,  and  gives  her  a 
pledge  or  ring,  or  any  other  golden  ornament,  or| 
money  or  goods,  and  after  that  does  not  wish  to 
take  her  as  wife,  he  shall  lose  the  pledge  and  all  j 
that  he  brought."  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  parents 
wish  to  annul  the  betrothal,  and  will  not  give  her 
over  to  him,  they  must  return  to  him  everything 
that  he  brought,  but  whatever  they  received  on  the 
first  day  must  be  given  back  double.4 

Whatever  independence  the  wife  enjoyed  in 
ancient  Babylonia  must  have  been  largely  due  to 
the  law  (CH,  §  128)  under  which,  if  any  one  has 
taken  a  wife  and  "  has  not  laid  down  her  bonds " 

1  Cp.  the  presents  to  Rebekah,  Gen.  24  22,  53. 

2  ZDPV,  6  90-93.   Dareste,  Journal  des  Savants,  November  1902, 
p.  588,  n.  2,  cites  a  similar  provision  in  the  Salic  law  relating  to  breach 
of  promise  on  the  part  of  the  man. 

3  Brims  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  61. 

4  For  cases  of  deception  (as  in  Gen.  29  25  sg.)  no  provision  is 
made.     The  rule  that  the  younger  daughter  is  not  to  be  given  away 
before  the  first-born  is  enunciated  in  the  Book  of  Jubilees  as  a  divine 
law,  but  there  is  no  hint  of  it  in  tradition  (28  6,  cp.  Charles,  aa  loc.}. 

6 


82  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

(ri-ik-sa-ti-sa  la  is-ku-uri),  that  woman  is  no  wife. 
r-As  was  also  customary  in  Egypt,  a  contract  was 
required  in  order  that  the  rights  of  the  newly- 
married  wife  might  thereby  be  legally  secured,  and 
reasonable  provision  made  in  case  of  her  being  left 
a  widow  or  divorced  by  her  husband.  The  wife 
brought  with  her  a  "  present,"  the  dowry  or  marriage- 
portion  (seriktu\  and  received  from  her  husband  the 
nudunnu,  the  "gift"  or  marriage-settlement,  the 
details  of  which  were  duly  set  forth  in  writing  (cp. 
CH,  §§  150,  171).  The  Babylonian  nudunnu  would 
answer  primarily  to  the  old  Arabic  sadak  and  hulwan, 
and  to  the  Hebrew  nedek  and  'ethnan?  of  the 
temporary  free  marriages,  as  opposed  to  the  mahr 
or  mohar  of  that  type  of  marriage  which  gave  the 
husband  full  rights  over  the  wife. 

The  degradation  implied  in  the  purchase-marriage 
was  removed  to  a  considerable  extent  by  the  practice 
of  utilising  the  purchase-price  as  a  dowry  for  the 
wife,  either  as  a  gift  from  the  husband  or  as  a 
settlement  from  the  father  upon  the  daughter.  The 
latter  custom  appears  to  have  been  not  unusual  in 
Babylonia  from  the  earliest  times  (cp.  CH,  §  163  sq.\ 
Under  Mohammed  the  difference  between  the  sadak 
and  the  mahr  disappears  ; 2  the  mahr  is  looked  upon 

1  Kinship  ®  pp.   83,  n.  i,    93  ;    Wellhausen,  Eke,  pp.  465   sqq. 
Cp.  the  "hire  "  of  Arabian  marriage  (Kinship]®  p.  120,  n.  i),  and  the 
presents  of   Judah  and   Samson    (Gen.  38  17,   Judges  15  i).      The 
Hebrew  terms  nedeh,  nadan  (Ezek.  1633),  and  'ethnan  are  probably 
of  Babylonian  origin  (cp.   Meissner,  Beitrdge  zum  altbabylonischen 
Privatrecht  [Leipzig,  1893],  p.  149). 

2  Kinship^  p.  in  sq. ;  cp.  p.  1 2 1.     Similarly  the  Syriac  mahra 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  83 

as  the  wife's  property,  although  at  the  same  time  a 
small  present  from  the  husband — "  be  it  only  an 
iron  ring  or  half  his  cloak  " — is  insisted  upon,  even 
as  at  the  present  day  in  Egypt  the  "  price  for  the 
uncovering  of  the  face  "  is  always  customary.1  In 
the  New  Babylonian  kingdom  the  nudun(n)u,  origin- 
ally, as  we  have  seen,  the  personal  gift  from  the 
husband  to  the  wife,  becomes  used  for  the  marriage- 
portion  (seriktu)  of  the  bride,2  and  has  passed  over 
into  late  Hebrew  (nedunya)  with  this  meaning. 
When  Rachel  and  Leah  complain  that  they  have  no 
portion  or  inheritance  and  are  treated  as  strangers, 
because  their  father  had  sold  them  and  had  devoured 
that  which  should  rightfully  belong  to  them  and 
their  children  (Gen.  31 14-16,  E),  it  may  be  legiti- 
mately concluded  that  in  Israel,  too,  it  was  con- 
sidered good  custom  to  give  the  daughter  the  mohar 
in  the  shape  of  a  marriage-portion.  The  Book  of 
the  Covenant  implies  that  some  such  practice  as  this 
was  usual,  since  it  enjoins  the  man  who  gives  a  maid-  \ 
servant  to  his  son  to  do  as  is  wont  with  fathers  who 
give  their  daughters  in  marriage  (Ex.  21  9).  So  in 
modern  times  when  the  wife  brings  household 
furniture  it  is  supplied  by  the  makr,  but  it  is  a 
frequent  complaint  that  the  father  gives  as  little  as 
possible  towards  the  dowry. 

is  used  also  of  the  wife's  dowry,  the  Targ.  kgthubta  of  the  marriage- 
portion  from  the  father  and  the  husband's  settlement,  and  the  Targ. 
denominative  of  </>epv?j  of  all  three  (Levy,  Chald.  Worterb.  2  292*2:). 

1  Burckhardt,  Ar.  Prov.®  p.  139. 

2  So,  in  the  New  Babylonian  law,  ^^4323  (col.   3,  11.  32-37), 
compared  with  CH,  §  163. 


84  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

In  Babylonia  the  marriage-portion  which  the 
wife  takes  from  her  home  was,  like  the  purchase- 
price,  frequently  paid  in  kind.1  It  was  fixed  by  a 
contract,  and  the  husband  even  wrote  out  a  receipt 
when  it  had  been  paid  in  full.  A  clause  is  often 
introduced  to  emphasise  that  the  matter  has  been 
satisfactorily  arranged,  a  formula  that  finds  a  parallel 
in  Egyptian  contracts.2  In  one  old  Babylonian 
contract  a  daughter  of  a  priestess  of  Samas  takes  a 
man  in  marriage  (a-na  as-su-tim  u  mu-tu-tim  i-hu-zi) 
and  receives  ...(?)  shekels  of  silver  as  terhatu 
and  "is  contented."  In  New  Babylonian  times  we 
read  of  brothers  " freely"  giving  their  sister  in 
marriage,  of  a  husband  "  freely  "  giving  his  wife  a 
slave  worth  i|-  mina  silver,  in  addition  to  ij  mina  in 
cash.  The  marriage-portion,  too,  like  the  purchase- 
price,  was  not  always  paid  at  once.  It  could  con- 
sist of  the  rent  of  a  house  belonging  to  the  wife's 
parents,  or  of  an  annual  share  from  the  fields  culti- 

1  The  extent  of  the  marriage-portion  and  purchase-price  naturally 
varied.     For  the  latter,  one  old  Babylonian  contract  specifies  ten 
shekels  ;  another  a  slave  and  a  mina  and  a  half  of  silver.      For  the 
marriage-portion,  in  New  Babylonia  we  find  one  GUR  of  corn  land, 
or  one  mina  of  silver,  slaves,  or  household  furniture — further  details 
are  collected  by  Marx  from  New  Babylonian  contracts  in  Beitr.  z. 
Assyr.  4  13  sq.      From  Deut.  22  29  one  may  infer  that  the  purchase- 
price  in  Israel  was  fifty  shekels  of  silver.     The  general  rule  that  for 
a  widow  the  amount  should  be  a  half  (or  a  third)  of  that  usually  paid 
for  an  unmarried  woman  is  Mohammedan,  and,  as  regards  the  value 
of  the  marriage-settlement,  is  found  also  in  the  Talmud. 

2  The  formula   is   not  confined  to  marriage-contracts,  and  has 
numerous  analogies  in  late  Jewish  contracts  (Pick,  Assyrisches  und 
Talmudisches,  p.  26;  Berlin,  1903). 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  85 

vated  by  her  brothers,  and,  if  unpaid,  it  could  be 
stipulated  that  the  wife  should  have  the  first  claim 
to  it  from  the  estate.1  According  to  one  New 
Babylonian  law,  a  man  who  had  verbally  or  by 
contract  promised  his  daughter  a  dowry,  and  had 
subsequently  become  poor,  might  be  allowed  to  pay 
according  to  his  means,  and  the  law  adds  that  there 
shall  be  no  cause  for  complaint  between  father-in- 
law  and  son-in-law.2  There  is  a  curious  develop- 
ment of  the  law  of  the  marriage-portion  in  the 
Syro- Roman  law-book,  the  general  purport  of  which, 
in  spite  of  a  certain  obscurity,  is  fairly  evident.  If 
the  father  has  promised  his  son-in-law  a  marriage- 
portion  for  the  daughter,  and  has  written  it  down  in 
the  fapvr),  it  is  to  be  paid  by  the  third  (or  fifth)  day 
(after  the  marriage) ;  the  husband  writes  an  acknow- 
ledgment, the  Tr\r)pa>(n,<s,  signifying  that  he  has  been 
paid  in  full ;  otherwise  he  receives  a  fresh  deed, 
and  without  this  documentary  evidence  his  claim 
upon  the  wife's  family  is  limited  to  five  years.3 

We  must  not  expect  to  obtain  such  precise  details 
outside  Babylonia  and  Assyria.  We  hear  but  little 
of  the  marriage-portion  in  Israel.  Laban  gives 
maid-servants  to  his  daughters,  and  Caleb's  daughter, 
in  addition  to  Kirjath-sepher,  acquires,  at  the  insti- 
gation of  her  husband  Othniel,  springs,  without 

1  Marx,  op.  cit.  pp.  26  sqq. 

2  KB  4  323.     The  dowry  is  here  called  nudunnu^  in  accordance 
with  the  New  Babylonian  usage.      But  the  law  may  rest  upon  old 
custom,  as,  for  example,  is  actually  the  case  with  the  one  immediately 
following  it  (cp.  p.  87,  n.  i). 

3  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  pp.  39,  291  sqq. 


86  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

which  land  in  Palestine  is  valueless.1  Solomon's 
"  Egyptian  "  wife  receives  from  her  father  the  city 
of  Gezer  (i  Kings  9  16),  and  the  passage  is  particu- 
larly instructive  since  it  has  preserved  the  old 
^  Hebrew  name  for  such  a  dowry.2  Written  marriage- 
contracts  appear  to  be  quite  unknown  until  late.3 
Where  endogamy  prevailed,  or  the  wife  was  not 
too  remote  from  her  kinsmen,  she  could  always 
reckon  upon  finding  a  protector.  The  possession 
of  a  good  dowry  naturally  improved  the  wife's 
status,  and  in  the  case  of  an  heiress  her  parents  or 
even  she  herself  could  no  doubt  impose  conditions 
which  would  not  otherwise  be  accepted.  Objection 
was  certainly  taken  in  many  cases  to  the  removal  of 
daughters  far  away  from  their  natural  protectors  to 
remote  places,  and  whilst  Laban,  according  to  the 
Elohist,  did  not  scruple  to  "  devour  his  daughters' 
inheritance,"  he  is  represented  by  the  Yahwist  as 
adjuring  Jacob  to  treat  his  wives  humanely  and  not 
to  take  others  (Gen.  31 50).  A  moral  obligation  or 
verbal  covenant  is  referred  to  in  Mai.  2 14  ("  the 
wife  of  thy  covenant ")  and  Ezek.  16  8  ("  I  sware  .  .  . 
and  entered  into  a  covenant "),  probably  also  in  Prov. 
2  17,  but  these  need  not  refer  to  anything  more  than 
a  solemn  undertaking  in  the  presence  of  witnesses. 

1  Judges  1  12-15. 

2  silluhim,  properly  the  money  or  parting  gift  which  is  given  to 
the  bride  when  she  is  sent  away  (cp.  Mi.  1  14,  a  pun  upon  More- 
sheth,  as  though  the  "  betrothed  "). 

3  Tob.  7  14  refers  to  a  written  and  sealed  document,  doubtless 
containing  the  details  of  the  marriage-portion  (8  21).     The  sealing  of 
the  contract  is  quite  in  accordance  with  Babylonian  custom. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  87 

Turning  now  to  laws  relating  to  the  marriage- 
portion  and  settlement,  let  us  endeavour  to  see  what  \ 
light  they  throw  upon  the  position  of  the  wife.  In 
the  first  place,  the  marriage-portion  is  the  wife's, 
and  on  her  death  goes  to  the  children,  and  cannot 
be  reclaimed  by  her  father  (CH,  §  162),  but  if  she 
dies  childless  it  reverts  to  her  father's  house  (bit  a- 
ln-J.a.-ma),  i.e.  her  own  kindred  (Heb.  beth  ab\  and 
the  husband  has  no  right  to  it  (§  I63).1  The  latter 
case  is  on  the  assumption  that  the  man's  father-in- 
law  has  returned  the  purchase  -  price.  The  law, 
therefore,  proceeds  to  state  that  if  the  purchase-price 
has  not  been  returned,  the  husband  is  entitled  to 
deduct  it  before  returning  the  marriage-portion  to 
her  " father's  house"  (§  164).  In  other  words,  since 
the  wife  has  died  childless,  the  husband  has  the 
right  to  the  price  he  has  paid,2  whilst  the  father  in 

1  The   law   reappears    in    New  Babylonian   times   in  a  slightly 
different  form  : — 

A"£4323.  CH,  §163. 

"  A  man  who  has  given  a  por-  "  If  a  man  has  taken  a  wife, 

tion  (nudunnit)  to  his  daughter,  and  she  has  not  given  him 
and  son  or  daughter  has  she  not,  children,  that  woman  has  gone 
but  fate  snatches  her  away  (Sim-  to  her  fate  (a-ncTsiTim-tim  itta- 
ti  ub-lu-us)  —  her  portion  shall  la-afc) ;  .  .  .  the  portion  Qeriktu} 
return  to  her  father's  house."  of  that  woman  the  husband  shall 

not  claim,  her  portion  belongs  to 
her  father's  house." 

According  to  the  Laws  of  Manu  (9  197),  the  property  of  the  child- 
less wife  returns  to  her  parents  in  the  case  of  the  Asura  marriage 
(one  wherein  the  bridegroom  gives  wealth  to  her  and  to  her  kins- 
men, 3  31). 

2  A  form  of  compensation  that  is  to  be  found  in  other  lands. 


88  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

his  turn  receives  back  the  dowry  he  had  given  to  his 
daughter.  The  modification  of  this  law  in  Syria  in 
the  fifth  century  A.D.  through  Roman  influence  is 
interesting.  The  marriage-portion,  in  the  event  of 
the  woman's  death,  passes  over  to  her  husband, 
provided  she  leaves  children.  As  an  innovation,  it 
is  provided  that  if  her  father  is  still  alive,  he  and 
the  husband  should  share  it  equally.  It  is  not 
remarkable  that  the  law  has  been  found  surprising 
from  the  Roman  point  of  view  (Bruns  and  Sachau, 
op.  cit.  pp.  n,  200  sg.).1 

I  Now,  in  Babylonian  custom  the  marriage-portion 
/may  be  made  over  for  the  sole  use  of  the  wife  or  the 
^husband,  or  it  may  be  joint  property.  Since  there 
is  a  possibility  of  its  reverting  to  the  father,  it  is 
unalienable  during  his  lifetime,  and  a  case  is  cited 
where  a  slave,  who  formed  part  of  the  wife's 
dowry,  could  not  be  sold  without  the  consent  of  her 
parents.2  It  must  be  given  to  her  in  case  of  divorce 
or  separation.  She  holds  it  in  trust  for  her  children, 
and  if  her  husband  dies  and  she  marries  again,  the 
children  of  the  second  marriage — if  there  are  any — 
share  it  with  those  of  the  first  (§  173  sq.).  The 
JSyro-Roman  law-book  allows  the  wife,  if  she  has  no 
tchildren,  and  is  not  under  the  authority  of  her 

1  As  an  illustration  of  later  Jewish  law,  it  may  be  mentioned  that 
R.  Jacob  Tarn  (1100-1171)  enacted  that  if  the  wife  died  childless 
within  the  first  year  after  marriage  the  whole  amount  of  the  dowry 
was    to   be  returned   to   her   father.     According   to   a    subsequent 
modification,  if  she  died  before  the  end  of  the  second  year  only  half 
reverted  to  her  parents  (Jewish  Encyclopedia,  4  646^). 

2  Sayce,  Babylonians  and  Assyrians,  p.  23. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  89 

father,  to  leave  half  of  it  to  whomsoever  she  will  ; 
the  other  half  is  her  husband's  (Brims  and  Sachau, 
p.  n).  Moreover,  the  marriage-settlement,  being 
originally  the  husband's  property,  is  not  left  to  the 
wife  to  dispose  of  entirely  at  her  pleasure.  If,  says 
the  old  Babylonian  law,  a  man  has  made  over  to  his 
wife,  field,  garden,  house  or  goods,  and  has  drawn 
up  a  sealed  contract  to  this  effect,  the  property 
remains  in  her  undisputed  possession  so  long  as  she 
lives,  but  it  must  go  to  the  children  when  she  dies 
or  when,  as  a  widow,  she  leaves  her  husband's  home 
to  marry  again.  She  is  even  allowed  to  give  it  to  a 
favourite  son,  but  it  must  be  kept  in  the  husband's 
family,  and  under  no  circumstance  can  she  leave  it 
to  one  of  her  kin  (§§  150,  171  sq.).1  From  CH, 
§  164,  to  which  reference  has  already  been  made,  it 
appears  that  the  marriage-portion  was  usually  larger 
than  the  purchase-price.  The  relation  between  the 
former  and  the  settlement  made  by  the  husband 
becomes  the  subject  of  legislation  in  later  times,  and 
the  Syro-Roman  law-book  (p.  58),  after  observing 

1  According  to  Winckler  and  Scheil  in  §  150  the  mother  may 
leave  all  to  her  favourite  son  (a-na  mari-sa  sa  i-ra-am-mii)  and 
nothing  to  a  brother,  i.e.  any  other  son  (a-na  a-hi-im}.  Johns, 
however,  renders,  "  The  mother  after  her  to  her  children  whom  she 
loves  shall  give,  to  brothers  she  shall  not  give."  The  interpretation 
in  the  text  may  be  justified  on  the  grounds  that  CH,  §  171  sq.,  proves 
that  the  marriage-settlement  must  go  to  the  sons  ultimately,  but  the 
wife  may  give  the  preference  to  one  of  them,  even  as  the  father  might 
leave  to  any  one  of  his  sons,  "  the  first  in  his  eyes,"  a  larger  amount 
of  property  than  the  rest  (§  165).  There  are  certain  cases  where 
the  woman's  share  returns  to  her  brothers,  but  these  apply  only  to 
her  portion  of  the  father's  estate  (§§  178-181). 


90  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

that  in  the  Western  lands  the  man  is  expected  to 
settle  upon  the  wife  exactly  as  much  as  she  has 
brought  him,  remarks  that  in  the  East  the  settle- 
ment is  only  half  the  amount. 

What  has  been  said  regarding  the  purchase-price, 
marriage-settlement,  and  dowry  might  be  further 
extended  if  full  account  were  taken  of  the  numerous 
customary  usages  illustrated  in  the  contract-tablets 
of  later  times.1  It  is  important  to  observe  that  the 
practice  of  returning  the  purchase -price  in  the 
dowry  (§  163  sq.)  is  evidently  an  attempt  to  remove 
one  of  the  humiliating  conditions  entailed  in  the 
bdal  type  of  marriage.  In  the  New  Babylonian 
empire,  as  in  Arabia  under  Islam,  it  had  become  the 
marriage-settlement,  whilst  in  Israel  the  father  was 
expected  to  return  it  to  his  daughter  in  the  dowry. 
In  the  next  place,  the  father's  dowry  and  the 
husband's  settlement  are  not  at  the  free  disposal  of 
the  wife,  since  the  former  reverts  to  the  father  if 
she  dies  childless  (§  163),  and  the  latter  cannot  be 
given  to  any  one  apart  from  her  children  (§  150). 
The  dowry,  therefore,  practically  becomes  the 
father's  contribution  to  the  rearing  of  his  daughter's 
children.  But  the  daughter  has  already  been 
purchased  by  the  husband,  and,  in  the  event  of  her 
dying  without  children,  a  crude  system  of  compen- 
sation allows  him  to  receive  back  the  price  he  had 
paid.  These  laws  must  surely  represent  more  than 
one  stage  in  the  evolution  of  marriage  in  Babylonia, 
and  it  seems  probable  that  the  provision  in  §  163 

1  Reference  may  be  made  to  Marx,  loc.  tit.  ;  Sayce,  op.  cit.  ch.  2. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  91 

reflects  that  type  of  union  where  the  wife  remains  in 
her  father's  house  and  the  children  are  counted  to 
her  tribe.  Under  these  circumstances  the  father  is 
naturally  expected  to  provide  for  his  daughter's 
children,  since  the  husband  is  only  on  sufferance, 
and  may  belong  to  another  tribe.  When,  under  a 
different  regime,  the  wife  passed  out  of  her  father's 
house  into  that  of  her  husband,  there  was  no  objec- 
tion to  her  taking  with  her  a  dowry,  provided  she 
bore  children  to  whom  to  give  it.  It  may  have 
been  considered  equitable,  therefore,  that  if  the 
husband  had  to  return  his  wife's  dowry  in  the  event 
of  her  bearing  no  children,  the  father,  for  his  part, 
should  hand  back  the  purchase  -  price.  Whether 
this  be  so  or  not,  these  laws  must  point  to  a  conflict 
of  marriage-systems,  and  unless  it  may  be  con- 
jectured that  they  reflect  a  fusion  of  types  corre- 
sponding to  the  mot' a  and  bctal  marriages  of  Arabia, 
no  plausible  explanation  lies  at  hand. 

According  to  Peiser,  there  is  evidence  that  in 
Babylonia  the  husband  could  pass  over  into  his 
wife's  family,  and  if  this  is  correct,  one  is  tempted 
to  see  in  it  an  actual  survival  of  the  earlier  conditions 
which  we  have  assumed.1  But  it  is  necessary  to 
notice  that  these  conditions  have  not  left  their  mark 

1  Skizze  der  babylonischen  Gesellschaft  (Mitteil.  d.  vorderasiat. 
Gesellschaft,  1896,  iii.),  p.  n.  So  in  CH,  §  130,  the  wife  (assat)  of 
a  man  is  still  supposed  to  be  dwelling  in  her  father's  house,  but 
betrothal  makes  the  woman  nominally  a  wife,  and  so  in  Deut.  22  24 
the  virgin  espoused  to  a  man  is  called  his  eseth.  In  like  manner 
the  girl's  father  is  called  father-in-law  after  the  betrothal  (CH, 
§§159  W-)- 


92  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

upon  the  language  as  has  been  the  case  in  both 
Arabia  and  Israel.  The  Babylonian  husband,  as  we 
have  already  seen,  is  his  wife's  bdal,  and  the  usual 
word  to  express  the  "  taking"  of  the  wife  is  ahazu, 
which  in  the  New  Babylonian  period  is  generally 
replaced  by  rasu,  "  possess,"  whilst  Assyrian  prefers 
liku?  corresponding  to  the  Hebrew  lakah.  We 
certainly  miss  verbs  synonymous  with  the  Arabic 
malaka  and  the  Hebrew  baal,  expressive  of  the 
bondage  of  the  woman  in  marriage,2  but  the  Arabic 
and  Hebrew  linguistic  traces  of  the  custom  whereby 
the  wife  receives  the  husband  in  her  own  tent  and 
tribe,3  as  far  as  the  present  writer  is  aware,  are 
as  yet  without  a  parallel  in  either  Babylonia  or 
Assyria.  The  married  woman  in  her  husband's 
home  has  scarcely  the  elevated  position  that  has 
been  claimed  for  her  in  Babylonia.  If  the  law 
allowed  her  freedom  in  all  that  pertained  to  business, 
she  was  in  precisely  the  same  position  as  the 
modern  fellahln  women,  whose  private  earnings 
remain  their  own  property,  who  may  be  virtually 
head  of  the  house  and  yet  subject  to  periodical 
chastisement  from  the  husband.4  In  Palestine,  no 
less  than  in  Babylonia,  business  capabilities  advan- 
tageously improved  the  wife's  status  (Prov.  31  10-31). 
|  In  Syria,  too,  according  to  the  law  preserved  in  the 

1  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  147. 

2  Kinship,^  pp.  92,  95.     Baal,  to  own,  occurs  in  E  (Gen.  20  3), 
D,  and  later  writings. 

3  Op.  tit.  p.  198  sq. 

4  PEFQ,  1894,  p.  133  ;   1900,  p.  176. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  93 

Syro- Roman  code,  wives  were  forbidden  to  bring  ani 
accusation  (fcaryyopeco)  against  their  husbands,  and\ 
the  inference  is  that  with  this  exception  women  in  the 
fifth  century  A.D.  still  possessed  the  right  to  appea| 
in  law-courts,  a  privilege  which  Roman  legislation 
scarcely  allowed,1  but  was  fully  enjoyed  in  Baby- 
lonia from  the  earliest  times. 

This  independence  of  the  Babylonian  woman  in 
business  affairs  may  also  be  ascribed  partly  to  a 
theory  which  fundamentally  distinguishes  Semitic 
legal  usage  from  —  for  example  —  the  Roman. 
Whenever  we  find  that  the  wife  leaves  her  home  on 
marriage  and  settles  with  the  husband,  either  the 
woman  renounces  her  own  kin  and  is  incorporated 
into  that  of  her  husband,  or  she  retains  her  own  kin 
and  enjoys  rights  in  her  new  position  as  the  mother 
of  her  husband's  children  rather  than  by  virtue  of 
being  his  wife.  There  are,  however,  no  traces  of 
the  patria  potestas  among  the  ancient  Semites,  and 
the  wife  is  not  even  adopted  into  her  husband's 
stock,  and  the  conclusions  that  Robertson  Smith 
has  drawn  from  the  old  Arabian  evidence  may 
be  illustrated  from  other  Semitic  quarters.2  The 
modern  fellahin  woman  is  still  "  often  considered  a 
stranger  in  the  family  to  a  certain  degree.  If  she 

1  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  198. 

2  Kinship,^  pp.  76  sq.\  Re  1.  Sem.(2}  p.  279.     The  man  has  not 
the  power  of  life  or  death  over  his  wife  that  he  has  over  his  slave, 
and  in  one  early  Arabian  case  a  man  who  had  accidentally  killed  his 
wife  was  compelled  to  make  compensation  to  her  family  (Procksch, 
Uber  die  Blutrache  bei  den  vorislamischen  Arabern,  p.  61  ;  Leipzig, 
1899). 


94  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  iv 

is  energetic  she  can  rule  the  house  and  command 
the  husband  just  as  well  as  any  Occidental  woman 
may.     She  is  greatly  venerated  by  her  children,  but 
is  not  inseparably  attached   to   the  family   of  her 
husband."1     She  is  "called  by  her  own  and  by  her 
father's  name,  never  by  that  of  her  husband,  and  as 
soon  as  she  has  a  child  she  takes  her  name  as  its 
mother." !      The  wife  takes  a  by  no  means  prominent 
part  in  the  mourning  for  a  dead  husband — a  usage 
that  goes  back  to  early  Arabian   times,3  and  the 
husband    in    his    turn    pays    comparatively    slight 
regard  to  the  death  of  his  wife.     In  Israel,  according 
to  the  Law  of  Holiness,  the  priest  is  forbidden  to 
mourn   for  a  dead   member  of  his  clan    (am),   an 
exception  being  made  in  the  case  of  his  immediate 
"kin  (seer)  that  is  near  unto  him,"4  and  it  is  note- 
worthy that  no  mention  whatever   is  made  of  the 
wife    (Lev.  21  i  sq.).      Marriage  removes   the  girl 
from  her  kin  as  long  as  her  husband  lives  or  she 
has  children  by  him.     The  same  collection  of  laws 
distinguishes  between  the  priest's  sister,  "  a  virgin, 
not  given  to  a  man,"  and  the  "  married  sister  "  (Lev. 
21  3  sq.).5     The  latter,  being  outside  the  kin,  may 
not   be  mourned  for,  and  so  in  Lev.  21  12  sq.  the 
priest's    daughter   who    has    married   outside   is   a 
stranger  and  has  not  the  right  to  eat  of  the  holy 

1  Baldensperger,  PEFQi  1900,  p.  176. 

*  Id.  1901,  p.  75. 

8  Kinship^  p.  77,  n.  i  ;  cp.  Wellhausen,  Ehe^  p.  450,  n.  2. 

4  SPer,  lit.  flesh  (cp.  the  Arabic  analogies  cited    in    Kinship^ 
P-  39,  n.  i). 

5  Reading  beiilath  bdal  in  v.  4,  with  Baentsch  and  Bertholet. 


CHAP,  iv  THE  FAMILY  95 

food,  but  if  she  is  a  widow,  or  has  been  divorced, 
she  again  comes  into  her  father's  kin,  provided  she 
has  no  children.     The  children  give  the  stamp  to  l 
the  mother's  kin,  and,  as  we  shall  see  in  a  subsequent  I 
chapter,  the  position  of  the  woman  in  the  house  of/ 
her    husband    is    fundamentally   based    upon    the/ 
question  whether  she  has  or  has  not  children. 


CHAPTER   V 
THE  FAMILY  (continued) 

Bars  to  marriage — Babylonian  laws  against  incest — Chastity  and 
slander — Parallel  Hebrew  laws — Laws  of  adultery — Ordeals — 
Childlessness  and  bigamy — Polygyny  in  the  Old  Testament — 
Sarah  and  Hagar — Other  laws  of  separation  or  divorce — 
Divorce  in  Israel — Wife's  ability  to  divorce  herself — Later 
Syrian  laws. 

AMONG  the  primitive  Semites,  as  among  other 
peoples  in  an  early  stage  of  development,  ideas  of 
refinement  in  all  sexual  matters  were  the  result  of  a 
very  gradual  growth.  The  laxity  of  morals  which 
was  in  evidence  in  early  Arabia1  is  not  without  its 
parallels  both  in  Israel  and  in  modern  Bedouin  life, 
and,  as  is  proved  by  the  excesses  of  the  I  star  cult, 
was  particularly  prevalent  in  Babylonia.2  Certain 
restrictions,  however,  appear  as  early  as  the  Code 
of  Hammurabi,  and  these,  viewed  in  the  light  of  the 
Babylonian  evidence  from  other  sources,  have  im- 
portant results  for  the  study  of  early  comparative 
custom.  The  most  instructive  are  those  which 

1  Kinship,^  chap.  4. 

2  Cp.  also  the  story  of  Eabani   in  the  Gilgames   epic  (Barton, 
Semitic  Origins •,  p.  43  sq.). 

96 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  97 

relate  to  marriage,  and  it  will  be  convenient,  in  the 
first  place,  to  notice  the  extent  to  which  marriage 
within  the  kin  prevailed  among  the  Semites. 

Bars  to  marriage  spring  up  under  a  variety  of 
conditions,  and,  as  Robertson  Smith  has  demon- 
strated, appear  to  have  been  confined  originally  to 
the  woman's  side.1  To  start  with  the  Old  Testa- 
ment :  marriage  with  the  half-sister  was  customary 
even  in  Ezekiel's  day  ; 2  it  is  vouched  for  in  Phoenicia 
(Tabnith)  and  Egypt,  and  one  instance  from  Baby- 
lonia of  the  time  of  Cambyses  is  mentioned  by 
Sayce,  who  rather  unnecessarily  supposes  that  it  was 
an  imitation  of  the  Persian  custom.3  Moses  was 
the  son  of  marriage  between  a  nephew  and  a 
(paternal)  aunt  (Ex.  6  20,  Num.  26  59),  and  there  are 
several  allusions  to  the  deep-seated  custom  of  taking 
over  the  (dead)  father's  wife  along  with  the  inherit- 
ance.4 The  last -mentioned  is  the  subject  of  the  \ 
earliest  prohibition  of  forbidden  degrees  (Deut.  | 
22  30).  Other  prohibitions,  which  appear  to  belong 
to  another  collection  of  laws,  mention  only  the  step-f 
mother,  the  mother-in-law,  and  the  sister  (Deut. 
2720-23).  The  Law  of  Holiness  (Lev.  18,  20) 

1  Kinship,™  ch.  6. 

2  Ezek.  22  ii ;  cp.  Gen.  20  12  (Abraham  and  Sarah),  2  Sam.  13 
(Absalom  was  probably  Tamar's  uterine  brother,  hence  his  interven- 
tion).    In  the  Book  of  Jubilees  marriage  with  the  sister  ceases  with 
Kenan  (4  14  sq.). 

3  Babylonians  and  Assyrians,  p.    31.       Illustrations  from  other 
fields  are  given  by  Frazer,  Pausanias,  2  84  sq. 

4  For  the  practice  in  general,  cp.  Gen.  35  22,  49  4 ;  2  Sam.  3  7, 
16  22  ;   i  Kings  2  22. 

7 


98  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

extends  the  list  of  restrictions,  although,  probably 
through  an  error,  it  does  not  include  the  father  and 
daughter ;  it  will  be  noticed  that  even  for  the 
marriage  of  nephew  and  aunt  there  is  no  penalty, 
but  the  punishment  of  childlessness  is  threatened 
(20  20 ;  cp.  v.  21).  These  prohibitions  are  no  doubt 
to  be  regarded  as  representatives  of  successive 
advances  in  the  marriage  law  of  Israel.1 

In  early  Arabia  the  strictest  bars  seem  to  have 
been  restricted  to  the  mother,  the  uterine  sister,  and 
the  daughter,  to  which  Mohammed  adds  prohibitions 
against  the  mother-in-law  and  stepdaughter,  and, 
as  regards  the  wife,  the  father-in-law  and  stepson. 
These  and  other  additions,  as  far  as  their  principle  is 
concerned,  may  be  of  Jewish  origin,  although,  as 
Robertson  Smith  points  out,  this  cannot  apply  to 
the  details.2  Marriage  between  cousins  has  been 

1  So  Robertson  Smith,  Old  Testament  in  the  Jewish  Church,®  p. 
370,  n.  i  ;  Carpenter  and  Harford-Battersby,  The  Hexateuch,  1  223 
("Without  laying  too  much  stress  on  the  argument   from  silence, 
it  seems  natural  to  see  in  the  increasing  stringency  of  D,  and  still 
more  of  the  Law  of  Holiness,  an  evidence  of  a  progressive  strengthen- 
ing of  old  custom  into  detailed  law.     No  doubt  the  prohibitions  in  the 
Law  of  Holiness  had  been  frequently  issued  as  oral  toroth  before 
being  codified,  but  the  crystallisation  in  the  code  is  the  significant 
fact").     Gillah    kanaph  ("uncover    the  skirt")   could    be  used  of 
legitimate  as  well  as  of  illicit  intercourse,  and  has  Arabian  analogies 
(Robertson  Smith  in  Driver,  Deut.  p.  259;  similarly  gillah  lerwah, 
Lev.  18  6;  cp.  Freytag,  Ar.  Prov.  1  234). 

2  Kinship®    pp.    195-197.       For   the   prohibitions   among   the 
modern  fellahm,  cp.  PEFQ,  1894,  p.  132  sq.  ;   1900,  p.  182.     The 
bars  mentioned  by  the  Syro-Roman   law-book  comprise  uncle  and 
niece,  aunt  and  nephew,  son  and  father's  wife  (stepmother)  or  con- 
cubine, deceased  brother's  wife,  deceased  wife's  sister  ;  the  possession 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  99 

and  still  is  particularly  common  in  the  East  (cp. 
Gen.  244,  29  19;  i  Kings  14  31  and  152),  and  the 
tie  between  them  is  closer  and  more  sacred  than 
that  between  an  ordinary  couple  (Burckhardt,  Ar. 
Prov.(y)  no.  620).  In  early  Arabia,  the  man  had  the 
first  claim  to  the  hand  of  his  cousin  on  the  father's 
side,1  and  this  claim  is  even  enforced  at  the  present 
day.2  In  Babylonia,  on  the  other  hand,  the  con- 
tracts reveal  scarcely  any  traces  of  intermarriage,  , 
and  perhaps  the  only  instance  even  of  the  marriage 
of  cousins  appears  in  the  genealogy  of  the  famous 
banking-house  of  Egibi,  where  Nergal-itir  marries 
Sukaiiti,  the  daughter  of  his  father's  brother.3 

of  wives  in  common  is  strictly  forbidden  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit. 
pp.  254  sqq.,  279  sq.).  Fellowship  in  women  (polyandry)  has  left 
traces  in  Arabia  (Kinship^  pp.  156  sqq.\  and  appears  to  have  been 
in  vogue  among  the  lower  classes  in  Egypt  (Spiegelberg,  Arbeiter 
und  Arbeiterbeivegung  im  Pharaonenreich  unter  den  Ramessiden,  p. 
10  sq.  ;  Strassburg,  1895). 

1  Kinship^    p.    163    sq.       This    intermarriage    was    sometimes 
objected  to  on  the  score  of  health  (Wellhausen,  Ehe^  p.  441  ;  cp.  ib. 
p.  436  sq.). 

2  In  one  instance  a  man  demands  his  cousin  who  had  been  taken 
in  marriage  by  another.     The  husband  thinks  it  a  matter  of  com- 

.  pensation,  but  the  cousin  requires  either  the  girl  herself,  or  four  other 
daughters  in  her  stead.  As  a  preliminary,  it  is  discussed  whether  the 
case  should  be  tried  by  Bedouin  or  Mohammedan  law.  According 
to  Mohammedan  law,  a  second  daughter  offered  by  the  father  would 
be  sufficient  reparation,  whereas  Bedouin  right  annuls  the  marriage, 
or  at  least  entitles  the  claimant  to  his  cousin's  dowry.  Ultimately  the 
cousin's  claim  was  considered  valid,  since,  although  he  has  put  off 
marrying  her  from  year  to  year,  the  girl  ought  to  have  taken  steps  to 
force  him  to  make  her  his  wife  (Lady  Anne  Blunt,  Bedouin  Tribes  of 
the  Euphrates,  2  105  sqq.). 

3  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Babylon.  Rechtsleben,  4  22  sq. 


ioo  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

Sayce,  however,  in  addition  to  a  marriage  with  the 
half-sister  (referred  to  above),  also  adds  instances 
where  the  bride  is  the  sister-in-law  and  the  niece.1 
I      The  prevalence  of  greater  freedom  in  the  older 
I  times  is  proved  by  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  which 
^contains  four  specific  laws  on  the  subject : — 

(a)  The  man  who  has  known  (il-ta-ma-ad)  his 
daughter  is  driven  out  of  the  city  (§  154). 

(6)  The  man  who  has  betrothed  a  bride 
(kallatu) 2  to  his  son,  and  has  had  intercourse  with 
her  (i-na  zu-ni-sa  it-ta-ti-il-ma),  receives  a  punish- 
ment which  varies  according  to  whether  the 
marriage  has  or  has  not  been  consummated.  In 
the  former  case,  the  man  is  bound  and  cast  into  the 
water  (§  155) ;  in  the  latter,  he  pays  half  a  mina  of 
silver  and  returns  to  her  all  that  she  has  brought 
from  her  father's  house,  and  she  is  free  to  marry  the 
"man  of  her  heart"  (§  I56).3  The  law,  as  it  stands 
in  §  155,  reads,  "that  man  one  shall  bind,  and  cast 
her  into  the  waters  "  (Johns).  Father  Lagrange's 

1  op.  dt.  p.  31. 

2  Presumably  the  young  betrothed  could  be  taken  to  her  father-in- 
law's  house  before  marriage ;   at  all  events,  the  married  son  may 
remain  in  his  parents'  house,  and  in  this  case  they  receive  the  wife's 
dowry  (cp.  Kohler,  Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  4  424).     Kallat  in  Heb.  is  used  of 
the  betrothed  or  the  daughter-in-law,  in  Syr.  of  the  bride  or  daughter- 
in-law,  and  in  Ar.  (kanna)  of  a  man's  own  wife,  or  that  of  his  son  or 
brother  (cp.  Kinship ^  p.  161  ;  Barton,  Semitic  Origins,  p.  65). 

8  Under  Islam,  also,  a  man  was  forbidden  to  marry  a  woman 
who  had  been  his  son's  wife  (Kinship^  p.  52) ;  cp.  Lev.  20  14. 
In  Amos  2  7  the  allusion  is  to  immorality  in  the  service  of  Ashtoreth 
(Istar). 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  101 

suggestion,1  that  both  were  bound  and  cast  into  the 
water,  on  the  analogy  of  the  penalty  for  adultery 
(§  129),  is  plausible,  but  Scheil's  conjecture  (which 
Winckler  adopts),  that  "  her  "  is  an  error  for  "  him," 
is  to  be  preferred,  and  is  supported  by  the  parallel 
law  in  §  130.  Here,  the  man  who  is  caught  violating 
another  man's  wife  (assatu],  who  is  living  in  her 
father's  house,  and  has  not  known  the  male  (zi-ka- 
ra-am  la  i-du-u-ma)?  is  put  to  death,  and  the  woman 
goes  free  (§  130). 

(c)  Intercourse     with     a     man's     own     mother  ' 
(ummu)  is  punished  by  burning  the  pair  together  i 

(§  i57)-3 

(d)  The  man  who  has  intercourse  with  her  "  who 
brought  him  up  "  (ra-bi-ti-su),  and  has  borne  children,  1 
is  cut  off  from  the  paternal  home  (blti  a-ba ;  §  158).  | 
Whether  the  man  is  an  adopted  son  or  the  woman 
is  a  stepmother  is  not  stated,  but  it  is  remarkable 
that  the  penalty  is  comparatively  light.     Have  we 
here  a  survival  of  the  old  custom  of  marrying  the 
widowed  stepmother  ? 4 

In  Babylonia  the  chastity  of  the  wife  is  expected,  j 
and  can  even  be  certified  in  the  marriage-contract ; 6  j 

1  Revue  Biblique,  1903,  p.  38,  n.  I. 

2  Cp.  Heb.  use  oiyada,  especially  with  miskab  zakar  (Judg.  21  n 
sg.,  Num.  31  17  sq.}.     Note  the  synonymous  iltamad  (CH,  §  154). 

3  The   grossness   of  the   crime   appears    also    from    the    solemn 
formula  of  divorce  in  Arabia  (Kinship^  p.  193).     For  the  nature  of 
the  punishment,  cp.  p.  106  sq. 

4  So  also  Orelli,  Gesetz  Hammurabis^  p.  20. 

5  In  a  contemporary  tablet  quoted  by  Pinches,  op.  cit.  p.  173  sq.^ 
it  is  declared  :  "  Ana-aa-uzni  is  a  virgin,  no  one  has  anything  to  say 


102  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

adultery  is  severely  punished,  and  the  libellous 
slanderer  meets  with  a  just  reward.  The  wife  who 
has  been  slandered  by  her  husband,  but  has  not 
actually  been  caught  in  flagrante  delicto,  may  declare 
her  innocence  by  a  solemn  oath,1  and  is  free  to 
return  to  her  house  (§  131).  For  the  slight  that  has 
been  cast  upon  her  she  is  allowed  to  separate  from 
her  husband.  But  if  that  woman  "has  had  the 
finger  pointed  at  her  on  account  of  another  male," 
but  as  before  there  is  no  clear  proof,  she  must 
plunge  jnto  the  holy  river  (§  132).  Here  the  pre- 
sumption is  that  the  scandal  has  become  public 
property,  her  guilt  is  more  probable,  and  the 
decision  is  left  to  the  river  god  (ilu  naru).  From 
the  nature  of  the  ordeal,  and  on  the  analogy  of  the 
law  in  §  2,  it  would  seem  that  if  she  floated  it  would 
be  concluded  that  the  deity  was  not  angered  against 
her,  and  that  she  was  innocent  (p.  64  above). 

The  Code  does  not  forget  the  slanderer  (cp.  Lev. 
19  16,  Ps.  101  5).  The  man  who  has  caused  a  finger 
to  be  pointed  against  a  votary 2  or  a  man's  wife,  and 
has  not  proved  his  case  (la  uk-ti-in),  is  brought 
before  the  judge  and  is  branded  on  the  forehead 
(§  127).  The  precise  nature  of  the  penalty  (mu-ut- 
ta-zu  u-gal-la-bu)  is  not  clear.  It  is  conceivable  that 
the  forelock,  the  mark  of  the  freedman,  was  cut  off, 
but  the  same  word  is  used  elsewhere  of  the  branding 

against  Ana-aa-uzni  "  ;  cp.  p.  177.  The  subject  is  treated  ad  nauseam 
in  the  Talmud  (Kethilbotk). 

1  ni-is  i-lim  i-za-kar-ma^  i.e.  "  swear  by  the  name  of  God." 

2  See  below,  p.  147  sq. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  103 

of  slaves.1  When  the  wife  is  actually  caught  in 
the  act  of  adultery  with  a  male  (zi-ka-ri-im),  the 
pair  are  bound  together  and  thrown  into  the 
water,  unless  the  "  owner  of  the  wife  "  (be-el  as-sa- 
tim)  would  preserve  his  wife,  or  the  king  his  servant 
(ardu;  §  129).  Drowning,  it  will  be  noticed,  is  also 
the  penalty  for  the  wife  who  repudiates  her  husband 
and  says,  "  Thou  shalt  not  possess  me," 2  whilst  in 
one  New  Babylonian  contract  the  wife  who  is  an 
adulteress  is  put  to  death  with  an  iron  sword.3 
Intrigue  comes  into  consideration  in  §  153  (see 
below),  where  the  wife  who  has  plotted  her 
husband's  death  for  the  sake  of  another  is  impaled.4 
The  early  codification  of  such  laws  as  the  fore- 
going stands  in  marked  contrast  with  what  is  found 
elsewhere  among  the  Semites.  The  lack  of  refine- 
ment in  ancient  Israel  need  not  be  dwelt  upon ;  it  is 
sufficient  to  recall  the  stories  in  Gen.  19,  Judg.  19, 
etc.  Even  the  restrictions  in  Lev.  21 7,  14,  apply 
only  to  the  priests.  The  old  law  in  Ex.  22  16  sq. 
regards  the  seduction  of  a  virgin  as  an  injury  to  the 
father,  and  the  man  must  pay  the  father  the  purchase-^ 
price  (mokar)  and  marry  her.5  The  amount  of  the 

1  In  Arabia  the  forehead  of  slaves  and    captives  was    shaved 
(Wellhausen,  Arab.  Held.®  p.  198). 

2  §  142.      In  the  old  law  cited  in  KB  4  320,  the  formula  is,  "  Thou 
art  not  my  husband." 

3  Marx,  op.  cit.  p.  7.      The  verb  is  tamatu;  cp.  Heb.  yiimath  in 
the  laws  Ex.  21  20,  Lev.  24  21,  etc. 

4  i-na  ga-si-si-im  i-sa-ak-ka-an-nu-sim.      In  the  Syro-Roman  law- 
book   intrigues    are   regarded    as    especially    due   to    intermarriage 
(Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  33,  §  108). 

5  So  in  Egypt ;  cp.  Revue  Egyptologique^  1  117  sq. 


io4  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

price  rests  with  the  father,  and  if  he  refuses  to  give 
his  daughter  in  marriage,  the  man  must  pay  the 
average  customary  sum  ("  according  to  the  price  of 
virgins  ").  It  is  presupposed  that  she  is  not  already 
betrothed  (orasak),  otherwise  the  offence  would 
doubtless  be  equivalent  to  adultery,  and  the  man 
would  have  to  settle  with  her  husband,  or  be  put  to 
death  (cp.  Deut.  22  23-27).  The  account  of  the 
seduction  of  Dinah  (Gen.  34)  is  unfortunately  too 
composite,  and  the  older  elements  too  fragmentary, 
to  be  used  as  safe  evidence  for  the  actual  working 
of  old  custom  in  Israel.  Shechem,  according 
to  both  J  and  P,  offers  the  purchase-price,  and, 
according  to  the  latter,  includes  an  additional  gift 
(mattan)  as  compensation.  The  older  narrative 
does  not  actually  state  that  this  was  accepted,  but 
that  it  was  becomes  highly  probable  from  v.  26  (J), 
where  Dinah  is  in  Shechem  s  house  ;  there  was  no 
occasion,  therefore,  for  the  blood -revenge  that 
ensued,  and  Gen.  34  30  sq.,  49  7,  prove  that  it  was 
distinctly  opposed  to  the  custom.  At  the  present 
day,  one  or  both  of  a  guilty  pair  may  be  killed  on 
the  spot,  or,  as  in  old  Israel,  the  father  can  force 
the  man  to  marry  his  daughter  after  paying  the 
purchase-price.  Blood-revenge  follows  most  natur- 
ally when  no  attempt  is  made  to  offer  compensa- 


tion.1 


The  old  law  is  developed  with  greater  precision 
in  Deut.  22  23-29.    The  seducer  of  a  damsel,  a  virgin, 

1  Doughty,    Arabia   Deserta,    2  114 ;    Jaussen,    Revue   Biblique, 
1901,  p.  596. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  105 

who  is  not  betrothed,  pays  fifty  shekels  of  silver 
to  the  father,  and  is  obliged  to  marry  her  without 
the  right  of  divorce  (v.  28  sq.).  If  she  is  betrothed, 
and  the  presumption  is  that  she  was  unwilling,  he 
is  put  to  death,  and  the  girl  is  blameless  (w.  25-27). 
If  the  crime  has  not  been  committed  in  the  open 
field  (cp.  Ruth  2  22),  but  in  the  crowded  city,  the 
presumption  is  that  she  consented,  and  both  are 
stoned  to  death  (v.  23  sg.),  the  penalty  for  adultery.1 
It  will  be  observed  that  the  purchase-price,  which, 
in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  was  either  fixed  by 
the  father  or  was  according  to  customary  usage,  is 
now  specified.  In  addition  to  this,  the  law  in  v.  28, 
in  agreement  with  v.  22,  implies  that  the  pair  are 
found  in  the  act.  This  is  particularly  striking,  not 
only  on  account  of  its  parallelism  with  CH,  §  130 
("one  has  caught  him";  cp.  §  129,  and  contrast 
§131  sg.),  but  also  because  of  its  development  in 
later  times,  when  the  law  came  to  require  the 
minutest  details  before  adultery  could  be  legally 
punished.2  Hence  then  as  now  the  injured  husband 
commonly  took  the  revenge  into  his  own  hands.3 
The  growing  strictness  of  the  law  of  chastity  I 

1  A  fragment  preserved  in  Lev.  19  20  deals  with  the  case  where 
the  woman  is  not  free,  but  belongs  to  her  master.     The  meaning  is 
rather    obscure  ;  apparently  there   is  a  judicial   inquiry   (bikkdreth, 
AV,   "  scourging,"  follows  Jewish  tradition  and  the    Mishnah),  but 
the  man  is  not  put  to  death  because  she  is  not  a  free  woman  (so 
following  the  text  as  emended  by  Baentsch). 

2  Cp.  PEFQ,  1897,  p.  127. 

3  Prov.  5  9  (the  injured  husband  is  fierce,  *a&zan)t  6  34  sq.  (will 
not  always  accept  compensation,  kopher). 


106  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

in  Israel  is  illustrated  by  three  closely- related 
narratives  in  the  patriarchal  history,  which  are 
characterised  by  a  common  motive.  In  Gen. 
12  10-20,  a  narrative  which  seems  to  owe  its  inclusion 
to  J,  Abraham  does  not  consider  it  reprehensible 
that  his  wife  should  have  been  taken  into  Pharaoh's 
house.  Gen.  26  6-u,  a  parallel  story,  also  due  to 
J,  relates  a  similar  incident  of  Isaac  and  Rebekah 
in  Gerar,  and  shows  that  adultery  would  have 
entailed  blood-guiltiness  ('asam,  primarily  a  fine  or 
compensation).  Finally,  E's  story  of  Abraham  at 
Gerar  in  Gen.  20  1-17  displays  a  great  advance  in 
morality ;  the  sin  of  adultery  is  condemned  in  the 
most  emphatic  terms,  and  it  is  regarded  as  a  capital 
offence.1  The  stress  here  laid  upon  the  iniquity 
jmarks  a  stage  in  ethics  comparable  only  with  the 
Decalogue,  where  adultery  is  prohibited,  and  with 
the  Deuteronomic  code  (22  22),  where  also  the 
penalty  is  death  (stoning ;  cp.  Ezek.  16  40,  23  47 ; 
John  8  s).2  In  later  times  the  death-sentence  was 
carried  out  by  strangulation ; 3  burning,  the  penalty 
for  the  erring  priest's  daughter  (Lev.  21  9)  or  for 
union  with  a  woman  and  her  mother  (Lev.  20  14), 
was  exceptional,  and  was  scarcely  common  in  old 

1  Gen.  12  10-20,  though  probably  due  to  a  secondary  element  of 
J,  has  preserved  older  features.     Pharaoh's  presents  to  Abraham  in 
12  16  (as  purchase-money)  are  given  as  compensation  in  20  14-16 ; 
in  26  13  Isaac's  wealth  is  due  to  his  own  labours. 

2  Cp.  Job  31  ii :  it  is  wickedness  (zimmah;  cp.  Lev.  18  17,  20  14) 
and  a  punishable  offence. 

3  This  was  assumed  to  be  the  form  of  death  whenever  it  was  not 
explicitly  stated  (Mish.  Sanhed.  11  i). 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  107 

times  (but  cp.  CH,  §  157,  above).  The  Book  of 
Jubilees  (20  4 ;  cp.  41  25  sq.)  enacts  burning  for  all 
fornication,  a  clear  divergence  from  Old  Testament 
law,  which  scarcely  finds  support  in  Gen.  38  24. 
The  Talmudists  were  forced  to  assume  that  Tamar 
was  the  daughter  of  a  priest,  and  the  same  solution 
of  the  difficulty  is  accepted  by  the  Targum  Jonathan.1 
This  is  of  course  a  mere  conjecture,  and  an  un- 
necessary one.  Unchastity  is  a  stain  upon  the 
honour  -of  the  kin,  and  the  relatives  themselves  are 
expected  to  take  vengeance  upon  the  guilty  woman  ; 
it  is  a  personal  matter,  therefore,  and  before  the 
introduction  of  legal  penalties  the  punishment  can 
take  any  form  the  avenger  pleases.2 

As  regards  slander  and  accusation,  it  is  not  until 
Deut.  22  13-21  that  the  law  intervenes.  But  the  law 
in  question  is  hardly  to  be  regarded  as  entirely  an 
innovation  of  the  Deuteronomic  reformation ;  it  is 
evidently  a  survival  of  primitive  custom — which  is 
still  in  existence  in  the  East — but  its  most  important 
feature  is  that  it  takes  the  charge  out  of  the  hands 
of  the  husband  and  leaves  the  decision  to  the  elders. 
If  the  accusation  is  false  the  man  is  publicly  re- 
proved (chastised  ?  yissar),  and  is  ordered  to  pay 
a  hundred  shekels  to  the  father-in-law,  but  if  it  is 

1  Cp.  Charles,  The  Book  of  Jubilees,  p.  230.      In  Jubilees  41  25  sq. 
the  penalty  is  enforced  more  particularly  in  the  case  of  the  mother- 
in-law  and  daughter-in-law. 

2  Cp.  PEFQ,  1897,  pp.  125-127.     Burning  as  a  penalty  suggests 
a  sacrificial  rite,  and,  indeed,  as  Robertson  Smith  has  shown,  the 
execution  of  criminals  is  frequently  carried  out  on  the  analogy  of  a 
sacrifice  (Rel.  Sem.(z)  pp.  285,  418  sqq.\ 


io8  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

proved  that  the  wife  had  been  guilty  of  unchastity 
before  marriage  she  is  stoned  to  death  by  the 
community.  The  punishment  of  the  wife  is  in 
agreement  with  22  24,  and  in  view  of  what  was 
actually  written  down  in  some  Babylonian  contracts, 
it  may  perhaps  be  inferred  that  some  guarantee 
similar  to  that  quoted  above  (p.  101,  n.  5)  was  made 
by  the  father  to  the  husband.  The  amount  paid 
by  the  slanderous  husband,  it  will  be  noticed,  is 
exactly  double  the  penalty  for  violation  (v.  29),  and 
in  neither  of  these  cases  is  the  husband  allowed  to 
divorce  the  wife. 

,  A  man  suspected  of  adultery  by  a  woman's 
husband  could  no  doubt  be  made  to  take  an  oath 
of  innocence,  as  is  still  the  custom.1  A  similar 
procedure  might  be  adopted  by  the  husband  towards 
a  suspected  wife  (cp.  §  131),  although  where  there 
were  the  strongest  grounds  for  suspicion  a  rite 
preserved  by  P  in  Num.  5  11-31 2  subjects  the  woman 
to  an  ordeal.3  The  test,  analogous  to  that  in  CH, 

1  Cp.  PEFQ,  1897,  p.  131  (a  man  accused  of  adultery  swears 
his  innocence  in  the  Church  of  the  Nativity  in  Bethlehem). 

2  Two  distinct  rituals  have  probably  been  fused  into  one  :  a  curse 
upon  the  guilty  woman,  and  an  ordeal  (Oxford  Hexateuch^  ad  loc.\ 
but  a  perfectly  satisfactory  separation  of  the  two  seems  impossible 
(cp.   G.  B.  Gray,    EBi.   "Jealousy,  Ordeal  of").     Ordeals  for  sus- 
pected wives  are  cited  by  W.  R.  Smith,  ReL  Sem.(2)  p.  1 80,  n.   3  ; 
Kinship,^  p.    123;   in   one   case  a  charge   of  unchastity  which  is 
presumed  to  be  false  is  to  be  referred  to  a  diviner  for  an  authoritative 
decision. 

3  The  grounds  upon  which  the  suspicions  are  based  are  given  in 
v.  13 ;  the  additional  reason  in  w.  14,  30  ("or  the  man  over  whom 
passeth  the  spirit  of  jealousy  ")  is  scarcely  original. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  109 

§  132  (above),  was  by  water,  but  instead  of  leaping 
into  the  holy  river,  the  woman  is  obliged  to  drink  of 
a  potion  which,  on  the  principle  previously  noticed 
in  chap.  3  (above,  p.  64),  is  only  harmful  to  the 
guilty. 

Later  Jewish  law  modified  the  severity  of  the- 
penalty  for  adultery,  and  by  requiring  the  clearest 
and  most  convincing  proofs  of  guilt  practically] 
rendered  conviction  impossible.  The  husband, 
however,  in  no  way  suffered  under  this  new 
development,  since  his  freedom  of  divorce  gave  him 
every  power  of  putting  away  the  wife  whose  chastity  | 
he  suspected.  The  initiative,  it  will  be  noticed,  is 
in  the  hands  of  the  husband,  and  the  principle  is 
the  same  as  in  CH,  §  131,  where  the  suspected  wife 
who  takes  the  oath  of  purgation  returns  to  her 
father's  house,  not  as  a  punishment,  but  presumably 
in  consideration  of  the  humiliation  entailed  by  the 
false  charge  that  had  been  brought  against  her. 
Since,  therefore,  the  laws  in  Deut.  22  13-21  and  Num. 
5  11-31  do  not  allow  the  innocent  wife  to  leave  her 
husband  and  return  to  her  home,  it  seems  a  fair 
inference  that  they  have  modified  older  custom  in 
accordance  with  that  tendency  to  place  restrictions 
upon  divorce  and  separation  which  is  characteristic 
of  the  Deuteronomic  code.  This  being  granted, 
the  assumption  that  older  law  under  these  circum- 
stances gave  the  wife  her  freedom  seems  to  throw 
some  light  upon  the  amount  of  the  penalty  in 
Deut.  22  19.  The  law  fixes  it  at  exactly  double 
the  purchase-price  (v.  29),  that  is  to  say,  it  is  the 


no  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

purchase-price — which  by  this  time  probably  formed 
the  wife's  dowry  —  together  with  an  additional 
(equivalent)  sum  as  compensation  or  for  her 
divorce.1 

There  are  other  grounds  for  separation  or  divorce 
besides  adultery,  and  a  consideration  of  them  will 
illustrate  what  has  been  said  above  in  regard  to  the 
position  of  the  woman  among  the  Semites.  To 
trace  the  development  of  Semitic  marriage-systems 
would  take  one  too  far  afield  from  the  Code  of 
Hammurabi,  although  the  investigation  is  one  that 
is  most  intimately  bound  up  with  the  question  of 
divorce.  As  a  general  rule,  however,  it  may  be 
held  that  wherever  the  da'al  type  exists,  the  woman 
is  not  a  free  agent,  but  is  almost  entirely  deprived 
of  the  right  of  claiming  divorce,  whereas  if  she  is 
not  purchased,  but  can  give  herself  away  in  marriage 
and  consult  her  own  inclinations,  the  husband  is 
retained  and  dismissed  at  will.2  Under  the  bctal 
type,  further,  the  woman's  status  naturally  depends 
upon  the  question  whether  she  is  her  husband's 
only  wife  or  whether  she  shares  the  position  with 
others,  and  if  polygyny  is  disallowed  by  the  law,  it 
is  necessary  to  ascertain  whether  this  was  evaded 
by  the  abuse  of  the  husband's  freedom  to  obtain 
divorce.3 
| "To  have  a  numerous  progeny  was  the  desire  of 

1  Cp.  CH,  §  138,  p.  119  sg.y  below. 

2  Kinship}*  pp.  80  sqq. ;  cp.  above,  chap.  4,  p.  74. 

3  As  is  frequently  the  case  under  Mohammedan  law  (cp.  Doughty, 
Ar.  Des.  2  25  sg.). 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  in 

every  one  in  ancient  Israel,"1  and  the  desire  is 
shared  by  all  the  Semitic  races.  To  the  father,  the 
possession  of  sons  adds  warriors  to  his  tribe,  or,  in 
agricultural  communities,  brings  fresh  hands  to  help 
in  the  field ;  daughters,  if  less  welcome,  were  an 
addition  to  his  property,  since,  as  we  have  seen,  the 
father  receives  a  compensation  when  he  gives  them 
away  in  marriage.  To  the  mother,  it  is  the  children 
who  add  to  her  dignity  and  authority ;  they  im- 
measurably increase  her  status,  since  by  granting 
her  husband  sons  her  chances  of  being  divorced 
are  greatly  diminished.2  Childlessness  is  still  one 
of  the  commonest  reasons  for  divorce  or  for  taking 
additional  wives  (under  the  Mohammedan  law)  in 
the  East,  as  it  was  four  thousand  years  ago  in, 
Babylonia.  A  small  series  of  laws  concerns  itself 
with  this  possibility.  It  shows  that  if  a  man's  wife 3 
was  childless,  he  was  allowed  to  take  a  concubine 
(su-ge-tum)  and  bring  her  into  his  house,  but  he  was 
not  to  place  her  upon  an  equal  footing  with  the  wife 
(§  145).  Or  the  wife  might  give  her  husband  a 
maid-servant  (amtu),  and  if  she  brought  up  children 
(mare  us-tab-si),  he  was  forbidden  to  take  in  addition 
a  concubine  (§  144).  Here  it  is  not  explicitly 
stated  that  the  wife  is  childless,  and  elsewhere  in 
the  Code  (§  170  sq.)  it  is  presumed  that  a  man  has 
children  by  both  the  wife  and  the  maid-servant. 

1  Benzinger,  EBi.  "  Family,"  §  7. 

2  This  is  the  point  of  Leah's  words  in  Gen.  29  34,  30  20. 

5  The  ideogram  is  explained  as  assatu  by  Scheil  and  Winckler ; 
Johns,  however,  renders  "votary."     See  below,  p.  147  sq. 


ii2  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

Either  the  maid-servant  or  the  concubine  might  be 
legitimately  taken,  but  not  both,  and  the  law  sees 
that  the  position  and  dignity  of  the  wife  are  not 
injured  thereby.  The  maid-servant  who  places  her- 
self upon  an  equality  with  her  mistress  (be-el-ti-sa) 
may  be  "  sold  for  money"  if  childless,  but  if  she 
has  borne1  children  to  her  master,  "her  mistress, 
because  she  has  borne  children,  cannot  sell  her  for 
money,  ' but  shall  put  a  'mark'  (ab-bu-ut-tum) 
upon  her,  and  reckon  her  among  the  female  slaves  " 

(§  H6  sq)? 

Xhg jnan,  therefore,  may  take  a  concubine  when 
his  wife  is  childless,  or  his  wife  may  give  him  a 
maid,  but  under  no  circumstances  is  either  of  them 
,of  equal  standing  with  the  lady  of  the  house. 
From  the  point  of  view  that  childlessness  is  a 
justifiable  cause  for  bigamy,  another  law  is  easily 
explained.  A  man  whose  wife  has  been  seized  with 
a  sickness  (la-ah-bu-um)?  and  has  set  his  face  to 
marry  a  second,  may  do  so,  but  he  is  not  permitted 
to  put  away 4  the  first  one ;  she  must  remain  in  his 

1  There  is  usually  a  difference  in  the  wording :  the  wife  grants 
children  (§§  137,  145),  whereas  the  concubine  bears  them  (aladu^ 
§  M6  sq.). 

2  Although  the  same  word  (amtu^  pi.  amati]  is  used  in  both  cases, 
a  distinction  is  evidently  made  between  the  servants  and  the  slaves 
branded  with  a  mark.     For  the  penalty  here  referred  to,  cp.  Beitr. 
z.  Assyriol.  4  u,  and  p.  102,  above.     Winckler,  however,  translates 
"  servitude  "  (properly,  "  shackles  "). 

3  A  "  wasting "  sickness  (cp.   Syr.  nefyeb}  ?     Winckler  "  climac- 
terium  ?  " 

4  ezebu;  in  Heb.  *cizab  (leave,  forsake)  is  used  of  a  divorced  wife 
in  Is.  54  6  (issah  *azubah)  ;  in  Ethiopic  of  a  widow.     The  ordinary 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  113 

house,1  and  he  must  give  her  maintenance  as  long 
as  she  lives  (§  148).  If,  on  the  other  hand,  this 
woman  (zinnistu)  is  unwilling  to  live  with  him,  he 
must  pay  her  the  marriage-portion  (seriktu)  which 
she  brought  from  her  father's  house,  and  she  is 
free  to  depart  (§  149).  In  another  law  (§  167), 
where  a  man  has  had  two  wives  it  is  explicitly 
stated  that  he  has  taken  the  second  after  the  first 
"has  gone  to  her  fate"  (a-na  si-im-tim  it-ta-la-ak), 
and  although  in  certain  New  Babylonian  contracts 
we  find  a  case  where  a  man  married  two  sisters, 
there  is  nothing  to  show  that  this  comes  under  the 
head  of  bigamy,  and  Marx  plausibly  argues  that 
the  first  had  died  before  the  second  was  taken  in 
marriage.2 

CH,  §§  144-147,  are  particularly  interesting,  not 
only  for  the  biblical  parallels,  which  will  be  con- 
sidered presently,  but  also  for  the  illustration  they 
receive  from  a  couple  of  contemporary  documents 
relating  to  the  marriage  of  Arad-Samas  with  Taram- 
Sagila  and  her  sister  Iltani.  The  two  are  not 
blood -sisters  ;  probably  Iltani  was  adopted  by  the 
father  of  Taram-Sagila,  although  this  cannot  be 
regarded  as  certain.3  Iltani's  position  is  inferior  ;  her 

Hebrew  words  for  "to  divorce"  are  sillah  (Deut,  Jer.),  and  later, 
garas  (in  gerilsah,  Lev.  21  7  14,  Ezek.  44  22,  etc.). 

1  i-na  bit  z-pu-su,  "  in  the  house  he  has  built "  (i.e.  not  elsewhere; 
Winckler). 

2  Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  4  24  sq. 

3  Pinches,  The  Old  Testament ',  p.   174  sq. ;  Sayce,  op.  tit.  p.  27 
sq.  ;  cp.  Meissner,  op.  cit.  no.  89.      In  one  contract  they  are  given 
in  marriage  by  their  father  Uttatum  (Meissner,  Samas-s'atum),  in  the 

8 


ii4  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

duty  is  to  wash  the  feet  of  her  sister  and  to  obey 
her  in  all  things  ;  apparently  she  is  Taram-Sagila's 
waiting-maid.  In  one  contract,  the  ordinary  stipula- 
tions are  made  in  case  of  repudiation  :  he  may  throw 
them  down  from  the  tower  if  they  deny  him,  and 
can  pronounce  the  formula  of  divorce  and  send 
them  away  "  from  house-goods."  The  other  is 
drawn  up  for  Iltani,  but  applies  to  both.  The 
children  they  have  borne  and  shall  bear  are  "their 
children "  (recognised  by  him).  Clauses  are  intro- 
duced against  the  repudiation  of  one  sister  by 
another.  Arad-Samas  may  divorce  his  wives  for 
one  mina  of  silver,  and  if  they  deny  him  he  may 
strangle  (?)  them  and  throw  them  into  the  river 
(a-na  nart).  The  wives  bring  no  dowry,  and 
Taram-Sagila  has  a  seat  in  the  "  house  of  her  god," 
i.e.  the  house  of  Marduk — it  is  possible  that  they 
were  connected  in  some  way  with  the  temple.  In 
another  case,  Bunini-abi  and  Belisunu  his  wife  buy 
Samas-nuri  "  for  Bunini-abi  a  wife,  for  .Belisunu  a 
servant  "  ;  the  price  paid  is  five  shekels,  and  the  only 
stipulation  is  that  Samas-nuri  shall  not  repudiate  the 
authority  of  her  mistress.  If  she  does  this,  it  is 
agreed  that  they  shall  shave  off  her  hair  and  sell 
her  for  money.1 

I       Nowhere   in    the    Semitic    world    do    we    find 
polygyny   so  restricted   as    in    Babylonia.     In   the 

other  Iltani  is  the  daughter  of  Sin-abu-Su,  who  is  one  of  the  witnesses 
to  the  first  deed. 

1  Pinches,  op.  cit.  p.  185.     The  penalty  is  the  same  as  that  in 
Iltani's  contract. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  115 

Old  Testament,  with  which  we  are  here  more 
closely  concerned,  there  are  numerous  references 
to  the  custom,  particularly  during  the  Monarchy, 
and  if  the  example  was  set  by  the  kings  we  may 
be  sure  it  was  followed  by  the  wealthy  (2  Sam.  5  13, 
i  Kings  11  1-3;  cp.  Deut.  17  17).  Undoubtedly  the 
ideal  marriage  in  Israel,  as  represented  in  the 
prophets'  figures  of  Yah  we' s  relation  to  Israel  and 
in  the  later  gnomic  references,  is  monogamy,1  but 
one  must  hesitate  before  assuming  too  confidently 
on  the  strength  of  Gen.  2  24  that  this  ideal  reaches 
as  far  back  as  the  time  of  the  Yah  wist.  Jastrow's 
theory  that  in  the  original  form  of  the  narrative 
in  Gen.  2  man  was  like  Eabani  in  the  Epic  of 
Gilgames,  and  that  w.  21  sqq.  reflect  the  institution 
of  a  new  order,  at  all  events  has  this  in  its  favour, 
that  it  is  supported  by  the  frequency  with  which  un- 
natural offences  are  denounced  throughout  the  laws.2 
Of  the  earlier  examples  of  polygyny  one  or  two 
may  require  sifting.  Gideon  contracted  a  marriage 
of  the  sadlka  type  at  Shechem,  and  no  doubt  else- 
where ;  the  reference  to  his  "  many  wives "  in 
Judg.  8  30  belongs  to  a  post-exilic  hand,  and  is 
perhaps  based  upon  9  2  (E).  Bigamy  was  regularly! 
practised,  and  its  extent  is  proved  by  the  fact  that/ 
the  word  for  a  fellow  or  rival  wife  is  common  to 
all  the  Semitic  languages.8  It  is  not  to  be  supposed 

1  Cp.  Benzinger,  EBi.  "  Marriage,"  §  5. 

2  Exod.  2219;  Lev.   1823,  20  15  sq. ;  Deut.  27  21.     See  Barton 
Semitic  Origins •,  p.  43  sq. 

3  Heb.  sdrdh,  denominative  "to  take  a  second  wife"  Lev.  18  18. 


n6  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

that  the  custom  only  prevailed  where  the  first  wife 
was  childless  (as  in  i  Sam.  1  2,  Gen.  16  2,  cp.  11  30, 
30  i  sqq.,  9),  since  the  only  law  on  the  subject  is  of 
the  time  of  the  Deuteronomic  reformation,  and  its 
sole  concern  is  to  ensure  that  the  superior  rights 
of  the  first-born  of  the  first  wife  are  not  ignored 
(Deut.  21  15-17).  A  distinction  is  to  be  observed 
between  the  marriage  of  two  or  more  free  wives, 
and  the  custom  of  taking  in  marriage  the  maid- 
servant (arnaK).  In  the  former  case  the  two  are  on 
an  equality,  although  the  tendency  of  the  age  did 
not  render  the  position  of  the  first,  if  childless,  a 
tolerable  one ;  *  in  the  latter  case,  especially  if  the 
mistress  (gebtreth,  Gen.  164)  herself  had  given  her 
husband  a  maid-servant,  it  was  to  her  interest  to  see 
that  her  own  dignity  did  not  suffer. 

The  story  of  Sarah  and  Hagar  is  a  case  in  point, 
and  affords  an  interesting  commentary  upon  ancient 
custom  when  considered  in  the  light  of  CH,  §§  144- 
147.  There  are  two  parallel  versions,  Gen.  16  and 
21,  from  J  and  E  respectively.  In  the  former, 
Hagar's  contempt  for  her  childless  mistress  moves 
Sarah  to  appeal  to  Abraham  for  justice,  and 

In    Ass.    sirritu  =  tappattu,  "female    companion"   (Delitzsch,   Ass. 
Handivorterb.  p.  712  a). 

1  ed-durra  murra,  "  the  second  wife  is  bitter,"  runs  a  modern 
Arabic  proverb  (L.  Einsler,  Mosaik  aus  dem  heiligen  Lande 
(Jerusalem,  1898),  p.  80,  no.  80);  cp.  i  Sam.  1  6,  10.  Illustrations 
of  the  working  of  the  system  are  given  by  Baldensperger,  PEFQ, 
1899,  p.  139,  and  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  597  (a  woman, 
no  longer  young,  at  the  funeral  of  her  only  son,  persuades  her 
husband  to  take  another  wife). 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  117 

Abraham's  words  in  16  6  are  so  far  quite  in  con- 
formity with  the  law  in  CH,  §  146 ;  Hagar  is  in  her 
hands,  let  her  do  to  her  as  she  pleases.  Compelled 
by  Sarah's  harsh  treatment,  Hagar  flees  from  the 
face  of  her  mistress  into  the  desert.  According 
to  the  Elohist's  account,  Hagar's  child  has  been 
legally  recognised  by  Abraham  (as  heir,  21  10),  and 
Abraham  condemns  Sarah's  proposal  to  expel  the 
child  and  his  mother,  and  only  consents  to  it 
after  receiving  a  revelation.  The  result,  it  will  be 
noticed,  is  the  same  in  both  instances.  Naturally, 
these  stories  of  the  origin  of  the  Ishmaelites,  whose 
descent  is  thus  regarded  as  inferior  to  that  of  the 
Israelites,1  cannot  be  made  to  mean  too  much.  It 
is  not  safe,  therefore,  to  assume  too  confidently 
that  Sarah's  persecution,  which  Abraham  tacitly 
allowed  (according  to  J),  was,  under  the  circum- 
stances, contrary  to  usage2 — CH,  §  146,  it  will  be 
remembered,  only  empowers  the  mistress  to  degrade 
the  arrogant  handmaid — or  that  Abraham's  hesita- 
tion in  the  story  as  related  by  E  was  entirely 
due  to  the  fact  that  Ishmael  had  already  been 
recognised  as  his  son  and  heir.  But  it  is  per- 
missible perhaps,  on  the  other  hand,  to  trace  a 
growth  in  the  development  of  custom  between  J 
and  E.  In  J,  Sarah's  persecution  forces  Hagar  to 
flee,  and  Abraham  does  not  interfere ;  in  E,  Sarah's 
intention  is  grievous  in  the  patriarch's  eyes,  and  he 

1  Noeldeke,  EBi.  "Hagar,"  §  i. 

2  Contrast  the  comparatively  humane  treatment  of  captive  women 
in  Arabia  even  before  Islam  (cp.  Kinship^  p.  89  jy.). 


u8  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

only  permits  it  to  be  carried  out  after  receiving  the 
divine  command.  This  growing  tendency  towards  a 
more  humane  treatment  of  the  maid-servant  is  quite 
in  accordance  with  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  where 
her  status  is  legally  secured,  and  the  harmonising 
addition  in  J's  narrative  (169-10)  not  only  reconciles 
the  two  stories,  but  effectively  softens  the  harshness 
of  the  incident  by  indicating  that  Hagar  returned 
again  to  the  tent  of  Abraham. 

That  the  husband  is  allowed  to  take  a  second 
wife  when  the  first  suffers  from  an  incurable  sickness 
(CH,  §  148  sq.,  p.  112  above)  is  a  provision  which 
finds  an  interesting  parallel  in  the  Syro-Roman  law- 
book.  Here,  if  the  wife  suffers  from  some  affliction 
"  of  the  sort  that  separates  the  wife  from  the  man," 
and  he  desires  to  put  her  away  and  take  another,  he 
must  give  her  the  marriage-portion  and  her  settle- 
ment. If,  however,  he  does  not  wish  to  divorce  her 
("  by  reason  of  their  first  love  "),  he  must  set  apart 
for  her  a  dwelling-place,  and  her  maintenance 
according  to  her  due.1  Closely  related  to  this  is  the 
law  for  the  wife  who  is  found  to  be  possessed  with 
a  demon  (Syr.  seda).  An  inquiry  is  held  in  order 
to  determine  whether  the  evil  possession  dates  from 
before  or  after  the  marriage.  If  the  latter,  she  takes 
on  her  divorce  her  marriage-portion  and  his  settle- 
ment ;  otherwise,  it  is  assumed  that  it  must  have 
been  known  to  her  parents,  and  that  the  man  has 
been  deceived,  and  the  wife  consequently  receives 
only  her  marriage-portion.2  These  laws,  as  Bruns 

1  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  §  115.  2  Op.  cit.  §  114. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  119 

observed,  contain  scarcely  more  than  an  echo  of  the 
corresponding  Roman  practices,  which  is  not  to  be 
wondered  at,  since  it  now  becomes  possible  to  con- 
clude from  the  discovery  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi 
that  they  are  survivals  of  ancient  custom,  with  the 
introduction  of  slight  modifications  adapted  to  the 
different  conditions  of  the  age.  The  relationship  of 
the  law  of  separation  from  the  sick  wife  to  CH,  §  148 
sq.>  is  undeniable,  although  it  will  be  noticed  that  the 
latter  says  nothing  about  the  settlement.  Probably 
it  was  an  understood  custom  that  the  wife  took  this 
also,  since  we  find  from  other  laws  in  the  Code  that 
when  the  husband  "  has  set  his  face "  (pa-ni-su 
i$-ta-ka-an)  to  put  away  the  wife,  she  invariably 
receives  some  additional  compensation  over  and 
above  the  marriage-portion  which  is  returned  to  her.1 
The  laws  in  question  (CH,  §§  137-140)  presuppose 
no  offence  on  the  part  of  the  woman,  and  fall  under 
two  heads.  The  wife  or  concubine  who  has  borne 
children  receives  her  marriage  -  portion  and  the 
usufruct  (mu-ut-ta-af)  of  field,  garden,  and  goods  in 
order  to  bring  up  the  children.  When  they  are 
grown  up  these  give  her  a  share  corresponding  to 
that  of  one  son,  and  she  can  marry  the  "  man  of  her 
heart"  (mu-tu  li-ib-bi-sa}.2  On  the  other  hand,  if  it 

1  In  one  old  contract  the  husband  gives  SaddaSu  his  divorced 
wife  a  female  slave,  with  full  right  to  possess  any  children  which  the 
latter  may  bear.     He  recognises  Saddasu's  daughter  Zabinikbisa,  and 
undertakes  that  his  sons  shall  have  no  claim  upon  her  henceforth 
(KB  447). 

2  §  137  ;  cp.  the  extract  quoted  by  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  150,  where 
the  divorced  wife  is  free  to  marry  whomsoever  she  will. 


120  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

is  a  young  wife1  who  has  not  borne  children,  the 
husband  must  give  her  the  amount  of  her  purchase- 
price  (tirkatu))  and  her  marriage-portion  which  she 
has  brought  from  her  father's  house,  and  shall  put 
her  away  (i-zi-zi-ib-si,  §  i38).2  If  there  was  no 
purchase-price  he  must  give  one  mina  of  silver  for 
the  divorce  (uzubu),  or,  if  he  be  a  poor  man,3  one- 
third  only  (§  139  sq.\ 

There  are  other  divorce -laws  to  notice.  If 
the  wife  of  a  man  who  is  living  in  his  house  has 
set  her  face  to  go  out,  and  has  acted  extravagantly, 
"has  wasted  her  house"  (blt-za  u-za-ap-pa-ak],  and 
has  neglected  her  husband,  one  can  bring  her  to 
justice,  and  if  her  husband  formally  divorces  her, 
with  the  words  "  I  repudiate  her"  (e-si-ib-sa),  she 
goes  her  own  way  and  receives  no  uzubu.  If  the 
husband  does  not  pronounce  this  formula,  and  takes 
another  woman  (zinnistu\  she  remains  in  his  house 
as  a  maid-servant  (§  141).  The  wife,  too,  has  the 
right  to  claim  divorce.  If  a  woman  hates  her 
husband4  and  says,  "  Thou  shalt  not  possess 

1  Mrtu,  "the  elect"  (Delitzsch).     The  verb  used  is  aladu  ("to 
bear,"  not  "to  grant";  cp.  p.  112,  n.  i). 

2  One  may  compare  Deut.   22  19,  where  the  man  who  unjustly 
charges  his  wife  must  pay  twice  the  amount  of  the  purchase-price ; 
see  p.  109  above. 

3  muskmu,  the  name  given  to  a  class  frequently  mentioned  in 
CH,  apparently  between  the  freedman  (amelu)  and  the  slave  (ardu) ; 
cp.  Johns,  American  Journal  of  Semitic  Languages,  1903,  p.  97  sq. 
He  seems  to  enjoy  more  rights  than  the  early  English  villein. 

4  mu-za  i-zi-ir-ma,  according  to  Winckler,  "  disagrees  or  quarrels 
with  "  ("  streitet  mit ") ;  see  below,  p.  125,  n.  4.    The  husband  divorces 
his  \vife\assatu),   but   it   is  the    "woman"    (sinnistu)  who   would 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  121 

me,"1  an  inquiry  is  held  and  her  past  behaviour  ex- 
amined, and  if  she  has  been  thrifty  and  free  from 
fault,  and  it  is  her  husband  who  has  gone  out  and 
neglected  her,  the  woman  is  judged  free  from  blame  ; 
she  is  allowed  to  take  her  marriage-portion  and  return 
to  her  father's  house.  But  if  the  blame  is  on  her  side 
the  woman  is  thrown  into  the  waters  (a-na  me-e  i-na- 
ad-du-u-si]  §  142  sq.).  The  law  is  expressed  with 
greater  terseness  upon  a  tablet  in  the  British 
Museum : 2  if  a  wife  hates  her  husband  and  says, 
"'Thou  art  not  my  husband'  (ul  mu-ti  at-ta\  one  shall 
throw  her  into  the  river  (a-na  na-ar-u)"  The 
wife's  attempt  to  divorce  the  husband  is  apparently 
presumed  to  be  due  to  some  guilty  reason,  and  thus 
the  same  punishment  is  inflicted  as  for  adultery 
(§  129).  Another  law  allows  for  the  possibility  of  a 
woman  plotting  her  husband's  death  : — "  If  the  wife 
of  a  man  on  account  of  a  male  has  caused  her 
husband  to  be  killed  she  shall  be  impaled"  (§  153). 

Poverty  arising  from  a  lengthy  enforced  absence' 
of  the  husband  is  regarded  as  a  legitimate  reason 
for  separation.  If  a  man  has  been  taken  captive, 
and  his  wife  leaves  his  house  and  enters  that  of 
another,  the  law  has  to  decide  whether  he  had  left 
sufficient  to  maintain  her  (lit.  something  to  eat, 
akalu}.  If  this  be  the  case,  "because  that  woman 

divorce  her  husband.  Perhaps  there  is  just  a  suspicion  of  contempt 
in  the  phraseology. 

1  u-ul  ta-ah-ha-za-an-ni.  The  verb  is  used  elsewhere  of  "  taking  " 
a  wife ;  cp.  above,  p.  92. 

2 


122  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

has  not  guarded  her  body  "  (\_pa\-gar (?)- so),  she  is 
put  to  judgment  and  thrown  to  the  waters  (§  133) — 
again  the  penalty  for  adultery.  If,  however,  there 
was  no  maintenance,  the  woman  is  free  from  blame 
(§  134).  It  seems  most  probable  that  the  woman  is 
put  to  account  by  her  husband's  family,  and  not  by 
the  man  himself,  since  the  possibility  that  the  man 
will  regain  his  city  comes  under  consideration  in  a 
separate  law.  Here  it  is  provided  that  if  the  wife 
had  entered  into  the  house  of  another  and  had  borne 
children,  in  the  event  of  the  return  of  her  first 
husband  she  must  go  back  "to  her  bridegroom,"1 
and  the  children  remain  with  their  father,  i.e.  the 
second  husband  (§  135).  On  the  other  hand,  the 
rights  of  the  deserted  wife  are  protected  :  jf  a  man^ 
[eaves  his  wife  and  city,  and  his  wife  enters  another 
man's  house,  if  he  returns,  he  cannot  seize  (is-sa- 
ba-af)  her,  and  she  remains  with  her  second 
husband  "  because  he  had  hated  his  city  and  fled  " 
(§  136).  To  forsake  one's  city  is  an  inexcusable 
offence,  therefore,  by  which  the  deserted  wife 
benefits.  The  question  of  the  woman's  freedom  to 
marry  again  after  the  prolonged  absence  of  her 
husband  engaged  the  attention  of  the  later  Jewish 
doctors  and  the  Mohammedan  jurists.  The  former, 
it  may  be  observed,  required  the  wife  who  had 
married  again  to  go  back  to  the  first  husband  on 
his  return,2  among  the  latter  there  were  varying 

1  ha-wi-ri-su ;  cp.  hirtu,  p.  120,  n.  I  above. 

2  Talm.  Jebamoth.   10  i  sqq.     Under  ordinary  circumstances,  if 
the  wife  was  in  great  poverty  she  could  appeal   to  the  Rabbis,  who 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  123 

opinions :  the  Shiites,  for  example,  allowed  re- 
marriage after  an  absence  of  four  years,  and  if 
the  lost  husband  returned  he  had  no  claim  upon 
her.1 

The   conditions    which    these    laws   reveal   are-, 
illustrated  by  the  contract-tablets,  where  the  possi-/ 
bility  of  divorce  is  often  taken  into  account.      In 
contemporary  contracts  the  man  provides   for  the 
divorce  of  his  wife  with  the  formula  "  Thou  art  not 
my  wife,"  whilst  in  those  of  the  New  Babylonian 

period  it  is  more  explicitly  worded,  "If takes 

another  wife,"  or  "  If leaves  his  wife."     The 

compensation  appears  to  be  generally  i  to  i  J  mina 
of  silver;  in  one  case  it  is  as  low  as  10  shekels,2  in 
another  case  as  high  as  6  minas.3  An  old  Babylonian 
law  from  a  fragment  in  the  British  Museum  fixes  it 
at  only  half  a  mina.4  In  one  "  letter  of  divorce  "  of 
the  old  period  the  wife  goes  away  with  her  ziku  (?) 
and  uzubu — the  latter  being  the  compensation — and 
the  husband  leaves  the  wife  free  to  marry  again.5 
The  liberty  granted  to  the  divorced  wife  appears  • 
notably  in  one  instance  where,  as  Peiser  has  shown 
from  a  comparison  of  two  contracts,  a  divorced 
woman  was  eight  months  later  married  to  another, 
her  first  husband  being  still  alive.6 

sold  the  husband's  estate  and  granted  her  alimony  (Jewish  Encyclo- 
pedia, 1  399). 

1  See  the  abstract    in    Kohler's    Rechtsvergleich.   Stud.   (Berlin, 
1889),  p.  21. 

2  Meissner,  op.  tit.  no.  90.  8  Marx,  op.  tit.  pp.  5,  7. 

4  KB  4320.  5  Meissner,  no.  91,  KB  4  17. 

6  Babylon.  Rechtsleben,  2  13  sqq. 


i24  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

The  result  of  the  foregoing  has  been  to  shew 
(that  in  Babylonia  the  husband  is  granted  a  greater 
/facility  of  divorce  than  the  wife.  This  is  quite  in 
accordance  with  Semitic  custom,  wherever  the  ba'al 
type  of  marriage  prevailed.  The  frequence  with 
which  divorce  was  practised  in  Israel  is  to  be 
gathered  not  only  from  the  denunciations  of  the 
Drophets,  but  more  particularly  from  the  Deutero- 
nomic  code,  which  makes  no  attempt  to  forbid  the 
practice,  but  humanely  endeavours  to  restrict  it. 
The  wife  who  had  been  unjustly  slandered  by  her 
liusband,  or  who  had  been  taken  in  marriage  by  her 
seducer  in  accordance  with  the  law,  could  never  be 
divorced  (Deut.  22  19,  ap).1  With  these  exceptions 
divorce  could  be  freely  obtained  under  certain 
conditions.  A  properly  attested  bill  of  divorcement 
(sepher  kerlthutJi)  must  be  drawn  up  and  served 
upon  the  wife,  who  becomes  free  to  marry  a  second 
time ;  but  if  the  second  husband  divorces  her  or 
dies,  the  first  husband  is  forbidden  in  the  most 
emphatic  terms  to  take  her  again  (Deut.  24 1-4).2 
Similarly,  according  to  Babylonian  law,  the  husband 
was  forbidden  to  have  intercourse  with  his  divorced 
wife.3  The  Deuteronomic  prohibition  is  in  con- 
formity with  Jer.  3  i,  and  is  probably  to  be  regarded 
as  an  innovation ;  it  is  obviously  aimed  at  existing 

1  Later  Jewish  law,  according  to  the  Mishnah,  adds  the  wife  who 
is  insane  (cp.  CH,  §  148  sq.\  a  minor,  or  one  who  is  in  captivity. 

2  The  later  law  which  forbids  priests  to  marry  a  divorced  woman 
(Lev.  21  7,  14)  is  an  extension  of  the  standpoint  in  Deut.  244,  and 
indicates  a  further  step  in  the  development  of  morality. 

3  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  14  (after  Bu.  88-5-12,  157). 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  125 

practices.1  To  understand  the  provision  it  is 
necessary  to  notice  that  the  divorced  wife  is  not  free 
to  marry  again  unless  her  husband  has  pronouncec 
the  divorce  in  accordance  with  the  legal  formula  or 
has  given  her  the  required  permission.2  The  power 
which  the  husband  has  acquired  over  the  wife  by 
paying  the  purchase  -  price  is  not  annulled  by  any 
ordinary  act  of  repudiation  or  separation,  and  under 
early  Arabian  custom  the  husband  or  the  heirs 
retain  a  claim  upon  her  after  her  divorce.  Not  until 
the  formula  has  been  repeated  three  times  is  the 
dismissal  complete,  and  a  case  is  even  cited  where 
after  a  year's  interval  the  husband  was  indignant  to 
find  that  his  wife  was  receiving  other  suitors.3  The 
grounds  upon  which  the  man  may  divorce  his  wife 
are  not  specified  in  detail  by  Hebrew  law ;  dislike 
or  unseemly,  immodest  behaviour  are  sufficient,  and 
the  ambiguity  of  the  terms  gave  free  scope  for  legal 
discussions  in  later  Jewish  times.4 

Since  the  wife  is  entirely  the  husband's  property,! 

1  Cp.   2  Sam.  814    (i  Sam.  2644),    Hosea  2    sg.,   Judg.   192-4. 
The   possibility   of  the    divorced  wife   being    taken  again    by  her 
husband  is  contemplated  also  in  Is.  54  6. 

2  Cp.  Josephus,  Ant.  xv.   7  10,  and  for  modern  times,  Jaussen, 
Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  596. 

3  Kinship^  pp.  113  sqq. 

4  CH,  §  137,  has  only  "if  a  man  has  set  his  face"  ;  Deut.  24  i  is 
no  less  loosely   expressed.     lerwath  dabar  is   something    short  of 
actual  immorality,  and  was  variously  understood  by  the  Rabbis  (cp. 
Driver's  note,  Deut.  p.  270  sq.).     Hatred  (v.  3)  is  not  necessarily  a 
violent  aversion,  but  is  simply  the  antithesis  to  love  (e.g.  Deut.  22  13, 
Gen.  2931-33) ;  cp.  CH,  §  142,  where  the  woman  hates  her  husband 
(izir  as  opposed  to  ramu). 


126  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  v 

she  can  scarcely  be  expected  to  have  absolute 
freedom  in  the  way  of  obtaining  divorce.  She  must 
be  divorced  by  the  husband,  with  permission  to  marry 
again,  and  only  under  special  circumstances  can 
she  force  a  separation.  Salome's  action  in  dissolving 
her  marriage  with  Kostobarus,  as  Josephus  observes 
(Ant.  xv.  7io),  was  not  in  accordance  with  Jewish 
law,  which  allows  only  the  husband  the  right  to  send 
the  bill  of  divorce,  and  forbids  the  wife  who  has 
deserted  to  give  herself  in  marriage  again  unless  she 
has  been  legally  put  away  (cp.  Mark  10 12).  The 
wife  who  insists  upon  a  separation  forfeits  the  dowry 
which  would  otherwise  be  hers  (wholly  or  partly),  or 
must  make  some  kind  of  compensation  to  the 
husband.  This  is  the  general  rule  at  the  present 
day  :  the  woman  who  is  divorced  by  her  husband 
receives  part  or  whole  of  the  mahr,  but  if  it  is  at 
her  initiative  it  is  retained  or  claimed  by  the 
husband.1  The  hot  (" divestiture")  of  Moham- 
medan law,  as  contrasted  with  the  tatak  ("  dis- 
missal"), was  previously  "a  friendly  arrangement 
between  the  husband  and  his  wife's  father,  by  which 
the  latter  repaid  the  dowry  (purchase-price)  and  got 
back  his  daughter";2  when  the  purchase-price  had 
passed  into  the  hands  of  the  wife  in  the  shape  of  the 
dowry  or  marriage -portion,  the  compensation  was 
naturally  no  longer  paid  by  the  father  or  the  nearest 
relatives,  but  by  the  wife  herself.  It  was  not  other- 

1  Burckhardt,   Ar.    Prov.™   no.    649;   PEFQ,    1894,    p.    134; 
Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  596. 

2  Kinship]®  p.  1 1 2  sq.  ;  cp.  Wellhausen,  Ehe,  p.  449. 


CHAP,  v  THE  FAMILY  127 

wise  in  ancient  Egypt ;  the  wife  who  repudiated  her 
husband  and  loved  another  returned  the  marriage- 
settlement  together  with  an  additional  payment  as 
compensation.1 

Finally,  as  an  example  of  the  Semitic  law  of  I 
divorce  modified  by  Roman  usage,  a  glance  may  be  I 
taken  at  the  Syro- Roman  law-book.  The  general 
regulation  provides  that  the  man  who  divorces  his 
wife  without  any  blame  on  her  side  must  return  the 
whole  of  the  fapvrj  and  Scoped,  but  if  the  wife  leaves 
her  husband  without  any  lawful  reason,  she  can  take 
neither.  In  every  case  a  letter  must  be  drawn  up 
stating  the  grounds  of  the  divorce.  The  man  is 
allowed  to  divorce  his  wife  if  she  has  committed 
adultery,  has  passed  the  night  in  the  house  of 
another  without  his  consent,  or  has  gone  to  the 
Qearpov,  but  under  these  circumstances  she  cannot 
take  her  (f>epv^.2  The  wife  may  claim  a  divorce  when 
she  can  prove  ill-treatment,  or  such  offences  as 
sorcery  (Syr.  harrasiitha),  theft,  adultery,  or  if  the 
husband  has  brought  a  whore  into  the  house  or  has 
set  a  concubine  in  her  place,  and  on  these  grounds 
she  can  recover  her  <pepvrj.  No  mention  is  made  of 
the  Scoped,  whereas  in  another  law3  it  is  explicitly 
stated  that  the  wife  who  has  sinned  against  her 
husband  receives  the  fapvij,  whilst  the  husband 
retains  the  Scoped  on  account  of  her  offence  (Syr. 
saklutha). 

1    Revue  fLgyptologique,  2  270. 
2  Bruns  and  Sachau,  pp.  58  (§  41  a),  67  (§  64). 
8  Ib.  p.  57  (§  38). 


CHAPTER   VI 

THE   FAMILY   (concluded) 

Parental  authority — Old  Babylonian  family-laws — Adoption  of 
children — Special  laws  bearing  on  the  same — Limits  to  disin- 
heritance— Wills  and  division  of  property — Rights  of  concubines 
and  maid-servants — Position  of  the  widow — Ability  of  women 
to  inherit — Laws  for  special  classes — The  votary — Law  of 
intestacy. 

THE  family  system  in  Babylonia  had  reached  a  stage 
of  development  which  in  some  respects  is  strongly 
reminiscent  of  ancient  Rome.  The  father's  authority 
;over  his  children  was  not  so  despotic  as  that  of  the 
pater  familias,  but  it  was  far  greater  than  that 
exercised  by  the  parent  in  Israel  or  Arabia. 
)  Parental  authority  is  nowhere  so  weak  as  among  the 
(dwellers  of  the  desert,  and  even  where  the  community 
jhas  become  more  advanced  it  disappears  when  the 
'sons  have  passed  beyond  childhood.  Jacob  had  not 
the  means  to  restrain  his  grown-up  sons  (Gen.  34), 
and  even  in  the  much-quoted  illustration  of  paternal 
power  in  Gen.  8824,  it  was  a  female  and  not  a  son 
upon  whom  Judah  proposed  to  inflict  punishment. 
Disobedience  and  contempt  towards  parents  bring 

128 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  129 

their  own  reward  (Prov.  30 17),  but  they  are  not 
offences  punishable  by  law,  and  such  legislation  as 
finds  a  place  in  the  Hebrew  codes  can  scarcely  ever 
have  been  put  into  practice.1 

The  relation  between  parents  and  children  in  old 
Babylonian  times  is  set  forth  with  precision  in  four 
so-called  "  Sumerian  "  laws.2 

1.  "  If  a  son  says  to  his  father,  '  Thou  art  not  my 
father '  (ul  abl  attd],  one  shall  brand  him,  set  a  mark3 
upon  him,  and  sell  him  for  silver." 

2.  "  If  a  son  says  to  his  mother,  '  Thou  art  not  my 
mother '  (ul  umml  atti),  one  shall  brand  his  forehead,4 
deny  him  (residence  in)  the  city,  and  expel  him  from 
the  house." 

3.  "If  a  father  says  to  his  son,  'Thou  art  not 
my  son '  (ul  marl  atta),  he  shall  leave  house  and 
home."  5 

4.  "  If  a  mother  says  to  her  son  '  Thou  art  not  my 
son,'  he  shall  leave  house  and  goods."5 

These  laws,  as  we  see  from  the  oldest  contract-} 
tablets,  applied  also  to  adopted  children.6  They  do 
not  find  a  place  in  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  probably 

1  Robertson   Smith,    Rel.    Sent.™   p.    59    sq.,    Kinship™  p.  68 ; 
Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1240  sq. 

2  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  15. 

8  abbuttam,  "shackles"  (Meissner;    cp.  CH,  §  146,  p.  112,  n.  2 
above). 

4  The  same  punishment  was  inflicted  upon  the  slanderer  (CH,  §  127). 

5  In  no.  3,  blti  u  igarum  (lit.  wall    enclosure)  ;  in  no.   4,    biti  u 
unati. 

6  Meissner,  op,  cit.  nos.  93  sqq.     Fr.  Delitzsch,  arguing  that  father 
and  son,  mother  and  daughter,  are  paired  (cp.  Mi.  7  6),  explains  the 
second  and  fourth  of  the  above  laws  to  apply  to  the  daughters. 

9 


130  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

because  they  were  too  well  known  ;  but  they  appear 
to  be  presupposed  by  it,  and  have  undergone  a 
certain  amount  of  modification. 

/      Until  the  children  are  grown  up  they  are  under 
/the  immediate  care  of  the  mother.     They  were  often 
handed  over  to  a  wet  nurse  (museniktum)?  and  it 
is  characteristic  of  the  versatility  of  the  Code  that 
it  contains  a  law  dealing  with  a  crime  which  was 
evidently    not    unfrequently    practised    by    foster- 
mothers.     The  law  in  question  (§  194)  enacts  that 
if  a  child  dies  whilst  with  the  nurse,  and  the  nurse 
without  (the  knowledge   of)  the   parents  procures 
another,  she  shall  be  put  to  account  and  her  breasts 
cut  off.     Somewhat  similar  to  this  is  the  case  which 
was  brought  to  Solomon  for  his  decisidn  (i  Kings 
3  16-27),  although  the  simplicity  with  which  the  trial 
was  conducted  stands  in  strong  contrast  with  pro- 
cedure in  Babylonia.  Not  only  does  the  mother 
I  rear  the  children,  but  she  also  takes  them  away  with 
I  her  when  divorced.     In  such  a  case  provision  was 
\made  for  them,  and  on  reaching  a  certain  age  they 
Jno  doubt  returned  to  their  father's  house  (the  father 
(has  the  greater  claim  ;  cp.  §  135).     The  custom  holds 
good  at  the  present  day  among  the  nomads,  and  is 
also  Mohammedan  law,  opinion  differing  only  as  to 
the  length  of  time  the  mother  is  entitled  to  retain 

1  Cp.  Meissner,  op.  tit.  p.  15,  n.  3,  where  a  child  is  thus  handed 
over  to  the  charge  of  a  nurse,  and  an  allowance  of  food,  oil,  and 
clothing  for  three  years  is  promised  her.  The  Ass.  term  is  the 
Shaphel  of  enik,  "  to  suckle,"  and  corresponds  to  the  Hebrew  Hiphil 
mcneketh  (Gen.  358,  etc.). 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  131 

the  children  under  her  charge.1    One  late  Babylonian \ 
contract,2  wherein  a  man  promises  his  wife  and  son 
a  regular  allowance  of  food,  wine,  sesame,  salt,  and 
wool,   is  probably   an    example    of  alimony    under 
the  provision  of  the   Code  (§    137,  above,  p.    119).- 
Further,  provision  is  made  for  the  child  when  the 
father  is  an  official  away  on  the  king's  business  and 
his  son  is  too  young  to  manage  the  estate ;   the 
mother  is  allowed  by  the  Code  to  take  a  third  to 
pay  the  expenses  incurred  in  rearing  him  (§  29).3 

It  has  already  been  observed  that  the  man  whose 
wife  was  childless  could  take  a  concubine,  or  his 
wife  could  give  him  a  maid-servant.  As  another 
alternative,  a  child  might  be  adopted,  and  the  laws 
and  contracts  shew  that  this  practice  was  frequently 
followed,  the  object  being  to  obtain  an  heir,  in  order 
that  the  estate  might  not  pass  over  into  the  hands  / 
of  strangers.  A  contract  of  the  New  Babylonian 
period  illustrates  the  issues  which  might  depend 
upon  such  a  procedure.  Bel-kasir,  son  of  Nadin, 
who  had  been  adopted  by  his  uncle,  married  a 

1  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  596;  Kohler,  Rechtsvergleich. 
Studien,   p.   70  sq.      According  to    later  Jewish  law  the  children 
remained  with  their  mother,  but  the  boys  could  be  claimed  by  their 
father  when  they  reached  the  age  of  six  (Jewish  Encyclopedia,  4  628). 
Doughty  relates  an  instance  of  a  chief  of  a  nomad  tribe  who  in 
addition  to  his  wife  carried  along  with  him  a  divorced  wife,  the 
mother  of  his  only  son,  and  another  cast-off  wife,  the  mother  of  a 
ward  (Ar.  Des.  1 222). 

2  Marx,  op.  tit.  p.  41  ;  Kohler  and  Peiser,  op.  cit.  413  (1898). 

J  The  estate  in  question  is  a  benefice  under  the  crown  ;  cp.  pp. 
184  sqq.,  below. 


132  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

widow  with  one  son  ;  he  has  no  children,  and  pro- 
poses to  adopt  the  stepson.  The  uncle,  however, 
objects,  since  under  this  arrangement  his  property 
would  pass  through  Bel-kasir  into  the  hand  of 
strangers,  and  it  is  accordingly  agreed  that  if  the 
[marriage  continues  to  be  without  children  Bel-kasir 
(must  adopt  his  (own)  brother  as  heir.1  Children 
were  adopted  for  other  purposes.  Sometimes  the 
man  already  had  a  family,  and  in  this  case  the 
probability  is  that  the  child  was  adopted  as  an 
apprentice.  Even  slaves  were  taken,  and  under 
\these  circumstances  they  gained  their  freedom, 
[which,  however,  they  might  forfeit  if  they  failed  to 
carry  out  the  provisions  of  the  contract.2  The 
adoption  of  a  daughter,  too,  was  not  uncommon,  and 
a  contract  might  be  drawn  to  secure  for  her  the 
possession  of  any  gifts  or  property  which  her  new 
parents  might  have  given  her.3 

If  a  man  adopted  a  child  (a-na  ma-ru-tim  ilki\ 
and  its  parents  objected,  he  must  restore  the  infant 

1  KB  ±239  (cp.  Sayce,  op.  tit.  p.  28  sq.,  37).     The  tablet  is  un- 
fortunately broken  at  the  end,  and  as  there  is  some  reference  to  a 
sister,  it  is  evident  that  we  are  not  in  possession  of  full  details. 

2  So,  in   a  New   Babylonian   tablet  (^^4245;  Sayce,  op.  tit.  p. 
40  sq.\  IkiSa-aplu  freed  Rlmanni-Bil  alias  Rimut  on  the  understand- 
ing that  the  slave  should  nourish  and  look  after  him.     But   Rimut 
does  not  perform  his  duty,  and  his  master  breaks  the  "tablet  of 
adoption  "  and  gives  him  to  his  daughter-in-law. 

3  Meissner,  op.  tit.  no.  99;  cp.   Pinches,  op.  tit.  p.   177,  where 
the  adopted  daughter  whose  blamelessness  is  attested  (see  p.  101, 
n.  5,  above)  is  promised  a  husband.      In  Egypt,  also,  a  man  might 
adopt  a  female  slave   in    order   to  marry   her  (Rev.  Eg.  2  189-191, 
temp,  sixth  cent.). 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  133 

to  its  father's  house  (CH,  §  186).     The  Code  does 
not    specify    any    reason,    but    since    they    usually 
received  some  kind  of  compensation  for  the  loss  of 
the  child,   it  is    obvious    that   the   amount   offered 
might  not  always  be  considered  satisfactory,   and 
disputes  could  easily  arise.      The  law,  accordingly,  \ 
appears  to  be  directed  against  forcible  adoption.1] 
If  an  artisan  (mar  um-mi-a)  took  a  child  to  rear, 
and  taught  him  his  handicraft,  the  child  could  not 
be  reclaimed  (§  188) ;   but  if  he  had  neglected  to 
teach  him,  the  child  was  free  to  return  to  his  father's 
house    (§    189).       A   young   child    who    had    been 
adopted   i-na   me-e-su   and    had    been   reared    up 
could  not  be  claimed  (§  185).     The  Assyrian  phrase 
is    variously    rendered    "with    his   name"    (Scheil, 
Winckler),  or  "from  his  waters"  (Johns).      Now,— » 
the  child  who  was   formally  adopted  into  a  family  i 
had  certain  claims  which  were  ensured  by  his  tablet  / 
of  adoption  or  sonship  (duppu  aplutisu,  marutisu), ; 
and  as  long  as  this  was  not  broken  and  the  seal] 
remained  uninjured  his  position  was  secure.      He 
was  recognised  as  the  son  of  the  father  who  had 
adopted   him,    and    if  he   had    not    been    formally 
acknowledged  the  law  allowed  him  to  return  to  his 
father's  house  (CH,  §  190).     The  crucial  point  of 
§185  must  lie  in  the  fact  that  it  has  to  do  with  a 
child  against  whom  no  one  could  lay  claim  ;  it  is  a 

1  Scheil  and  Winckler  understand  the  law  to  mean  that  the  child 
rebels  against  the  parents  who  have  adopted  him.  Johns,  however, 
has,  "  If  .  .  .  when  he  took  him  his  father  and  mother  rebelled, 
.  .  ."  and  this  gives  a  preferable  sense. 


134  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

babe  taken  "  from  the  waters "  upon  which  it  had 
been  cast  adrift.  The  motives  need  not  be  inquired. 
Apart  from  the  circumstance  that  there  appear  to 
have  been  certain  classes  who  do  not  appear  to  have 
any  legal  claim  to  their  children  (see  below),  even 
the  great  Sargon  himself  was  cast  upon  the  waters 
by  his  mother,  a  vestal  (emtu),  and  the  parallel 
story  of  Moses  recounted  by  the  Elohist  in  Ex.  2 
only  needs  to  be  mentioned. 

The  classes  of  individuals  upon  whose  children 
no  one  has  any  claim  are  the  palace  favourite  (?) 
and  the  courtesan  (§  I87),1  and  if  the  son  of  one  of 
these  should  say  to  the  father  or  mother  that 
brought  him  up,  "  Thou  art  not  my  father,  thou  art 
not  my  mother,"  the  tongue,  the  offending  member, 
is  cut  out  (§  192),  and  if  he  has  found  out  his 
father's  house  and  has  hated  (i-si-ir-ma)  the  parents 
who  have  adopted  him,  and  goes  to  his  father's 
house,  his  eye  is  torn  out  (§  I93).2  The  extreme 
severity  of  these  penalties,  viewed  in  the  light  of 
the  old  family-laws  quoted  at  the  beginning  of  the 


1  NER-SE-GA    mu-za-az    e-kal  .  .   .   zinnisat   zi-ik-ru-um.     The 
meaning  is  obscure,  and  Johns  renders  "  a  NER-SE-GA,  a  palace  warder 
or  a  vowed  woman  "  ;  see  his  discussion  in  the  American  Journal  of 
Semitic  Languages,    1903,  pp.   98  sqq.,  where   he   argues   that  the 
palace  warder  was  one  of  the  royal  bodyguard  living  in  the  palace 
grounds  (p.  103). 

2  Again    the    offending  member  suffers  (cp.  §    195).       Samson, 
according  to  the  Rabbis  (Mishnah,  Sotah,  1  8),  lost  his  eyes  because 
he  had  sinned  in  following  his  eyes  (Delilah) ;  Winckler  renders  the 
law  rather  differently  :   "  If  .  .   .  he  longs  after  (?)  his  father's  house 
and  left  his  foster-parents  and  goes  to  his  father's  house." 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  135 

chapter,  proves  the  exceptional  character  of  these 
classes. 

The  family-laws,  in  turn,  appear  to  have  been  \ 
regarded  as  too  harsh,  since  both  in  the  contracts 
and  in  the  Code  itself  we  find  certain  modifications.  / 
The  adopted  son  who  is  repudiated  does  not  always 
leave  house  and  home,  but  takes  his  share  (zittii), 
which   sometimes   consists   of  house   and   garden ; 
even  the  son  who  repudiates  his  parents  is  allowed  to 
depart  with  his  portion.1     The  Code  of  Hammurabft 
does  not  contain  the  laws  for  the  repudiation  of  an  I 
ordinary  adopted  son  by  his  parents  or  the  reverse,2! 
but  two  statutes  have  been  framed  in  order  to  secure' 
his  position.      The  child  who  has   been  taken  to 
sonship  and  brought  up,  and  has  not  been  counted 
among  his  father's  sons,  is  allowed  to  return  to  his 
(own)  father's  house  (§  iQo).3      The  man  who  has 
adopted  a  child,  and  has  afterwards  "  made  a  house 
for  himself  and  acquired  children,"  cannot  disinherit 
(na-sa-hi-im)  the  child,  but  must  give  him  one-third 
of  a  son's  share  (lit.  of  his  sonship,  apluti-su)  from 
the  household  goods  only,  not  of  the  estate  (field, 
garden,  or  house;  §    191).      These  two  laws  pre- 

1  KB  45  sq.  (time  of  Rim-Sin)  ;  cp.  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  16,  and 
nos.  97,  98. 

2  See,    however,    Scheil    and    Winckler's    rendering    of    §    186 
(p.  113,  n.  i). 

3  The  importance  of  the  formula  of  recognition  is  illustrated  by 
the  contracts,  in  one  of  which  the  man  explicitly  says  of  an  adopted 
child,  "  He  shall  be  his  son  and  inherit  with  his  sons  "  (Meissner,  no. 
96).      Cp.  the  similar  formula  employed  by  Jacob,  "  Thy  two  sons 
.   .  .  shall  be  mine  "  (Gen.  48  5,  P). 


136  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

suppose  two  distinct  conditions.  According  to  the 
former,  the  son  has  been  adopted  into  a  man's 
family,  and  no  provision  is  made  for  his  future ; 
according  to  the  latter,  he  is  taken  by  a  childless 
man,  and  has  the  chance  of  becoming  his  heir. 
When  the  man  has  sons  of  his  own  body,  the  rights 
of  the  adopted  son  can  be  secured  by  the  formal 
recognition,  but  as  this  is  not  mentioned  in  §  191, 
the  presumption  is  that  the  man  proposes  to  dis- 
inherit him  in  favour  of  his  own  children.  The  law, 
however,  whilst  forbidding  this,  restricts  the  adopted 
son's  portion  to  the  goods ;  the  estate  is  to  be 
reserved  for  the  sons  of  the  man's  body. 

A  father  could  not  disinherit  his  son  on  his  own 
responsibility.  If  he  has  said  to  the  judge,  "  I  will 
expel  my  son"  (mari-i  a-na-za-ah),  an  inquiry  is 
made  into  the  case,1  and  if  the  son  has  not  committed 
a  grave  crime  that  justifies  expulsion,  the  son  cannot 
be  cut  off  from  sonship  (§  168).  Further,  even  if 
the  son's  conduct  to  his  father  has  been  sufficiently 
base,  a  First  Offender's  Act  was  in  vogue  whereby 
the  judge  " brings  back  his  face"  {pa-ni-m  ub-ba-lu) 
for  the  first  offence,  but  for  the  second,  the  father 
has  the  power  of  expelling  him  (§  169).  The  penalty 
("  cutting  off  from  sonship  "),  according  to  Winckler 
in  his  note  on  the  law,  does  not  go  beyond  disin- 
heritance from  participation  in  the  estate  ;  absolute 
expulsion  from  the  familia,  in  his  opinion,  is  not 


1  wa-ar-ka-zu  i-par-ra-su-ma ;  the  phrase  recurs  in  §§  18,   142, 
172,  and  may  be  translated  "inquire  into  his  past." 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  137 

intended.1  With  these  laws  one  may  compare  the 
Syro- Roman  law-book,  where  neither  sons  nor 
adopted  sons  (lit.  "strange  sons")  are  to  be  disin- 
herited without  good  cause,  but  complete  disinherit- 
ance in  the  case  of  the  former  is  forbidden.2 

If  a  son  strikes  (im-ta-ha-as)  his  father  his  hand 
is  cut  off  (§  195).  The  law  reminds  one  of  Ex.  21 15, 
where  the  son  who  smites  (kikkak)  father  or  mother 
"shall  certainly  be  put  to  death";  Hebrew  law 
pronounced  the  same  penalty  for  cursing  the  parents 
(Ex.  21  17,  Lev.  20  9  ;  cp.  Pr.  20  20,  Mt.  15  4).  The 
stubborn  and  rebellious  son  (sorer,  moreh)  who  pai 
no  regard  to  his  parents,  and  though  they  ad 
monished  (yissar)  him,  heeded  not  their  voice,  i 
brought  before  the  elders  of  the  city  and  is  put  t 
death  by  the  whole  community  (Deut.  21 18-21).  The 
Deuteronomic  code,  it  will  be  observed,  pronounces 
a  curse  upon  him  who  belittled  his  parents  (27  16), 
and  in  the  later  writings  moral  motives  are  urged 
for  honouring  parents.  It  may  have  been  necessary 
to  threaten  evil-minded  sons  with  the  death-penalty, 
but  it  rested  with  the  parents  to  bring  the  charge 
and  with  the  elders  to  decide  upon  it,  and  it  remains 
questionable,  therefore,  whether  these  severe  laws 
were  often  carried  out.3 

1  Cp.  apla  kun-na   it-ta-sah^  "  he  has  disinherited  a  legitimate 
son  "  (Muss-Arnolt,  Ass.  Diet.  p.  700  a).     But  nasahu  in  Assyrian 
seems  to  mean  to  pluck  out,  eradicate,  to  transplant  (people)  by  force  ; 
cp.  the  Hebrew  use  of  nasah  in  Deut.  28  63,  Prov.  2  22. 

2  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  pp.  18  (§  58),  47  (§  4),  69  (§  72), 
1 88  sq. 

3  Cp.  above,  p.  128.     Herod  the  Great's  treatment  of  the  two  sons 


138  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

In  Babylonia  the  sons  possess  property  during 
the  father's  lifetime,  but  probably  only  with  his 
consent  (cp.  CH,  §  7),  and  at  his  death  they  share 
the  estate  equally.  Some  kind  of  testament  was 
known,  and  we  even  find  the  testator  handing  over 
his  property  to  an  heir,  stipulating  only  that  he  shall 
receive  the  usufruct  of  it.1  Where  there  were  no 
testamentary  documents  the  father  doubtless  made 
known  his  wishes  in  some  recognised  oral  manner, 
probably  in  the  presence  of  witnesses  (cp.  Gen.  24  36, 
2  Sam.  17  23,  2  Kings  20  i).2  The  division  of  the 
inheritance  was  made  by  the  priests  or  by  the  eldest 
son  in  the  presence  of  the  priests,  and  a  contract  was 
drawn  up  to  certify  that  the  work  had  been  accom- 
plished to  every  one's  satisfaction.3 

The  children  share  equally  in  the  household 
goods  (§  165),  but  it  is  possible  that  the  landed 
estate  was  held  in  common  until  some  occasion 
arose  for  partition.4  If  the  father  had  presented 
(is-ru-uk)  to  a  favourite  son,  "the  first  in  his  eyes" 
(sa  i-in-su  mak-ru),  field,  garden,  or  house,  and  had 
secured  it  by  a  sealed  deed,  the  son  was  still  entitled 

of  Mariamne  was  exceptional  (Josephus,  Ant.   xvi.  11  2  sqq. ;   cp. 
generally  Jos.  ib.  iv.  8  24). 

1  Cp.  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Bab.  Rechtsl.  4  18  sq.  (1898). 

2  In  the  two  latter  passages  "  set  one's  house  in  order,"  lit.  "  give 
commands  to  one's  house  "  (siwwah  le-beth\ 

3  Cp.  Meissner,  no.  106,  "...  have  divided  the  whole  of  the 
property  of  their  father  from  mouth  to  gold  (bi-i  a-na  Aurdsi,  from 
slaves  to  money  ?),...  brother  against  brother  shall  not  dispute." 
A  specimen  of  a  contemporary  account  of  the  division  of  property 
may  be  seen  in  KB  4  17-23. 

4  As  at  the  present  day,  PEFQ,  1894,  p.  130. 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  139 

to  take  his  share  with  the  others  in  the  division  of 
the  property  (§  16s).1  Further,  if  the  father  had 
taken  wives  for  his  children,  with  the  exception  of  a 
young  son  who  was  unmarried,  when  the  division 
was  made,  this  son  received  over  and  above  his 
share  the  money  for  the  purchase-price  (kaspu  tir- 
ha-tini),  and  his  brothers  caused  him  to  take  a  wife 
(§  1 66).  A  similar  rule  prevailed  for  the  unmarried 
sister  (§  184). 

With  these  exceptions  the  Code  does  not  favour 
the  rights  of  primogeniture,  and  this  is  the  mor 
remarkable  since  from  other  evidence  it  woul 
appear  that  the  eldest  brother  (ahu  rabu)  wa 
entitled  to  a  larger  share.  The  superior  rights  of 
the  first-born  are  emphatically  insisted  upon  in 
Hebrew  law,2  although  there  were  occasions  when 
a  younger  son  received  the  double  portion  or  the 
favourite  wife  endeavoured  to  obtain  the  benefit  for 
her  eldest  son.  The  latter  act  seems  to  have  been 
sufficiently  common  to  require  the  law's  interference, 
and  *the  Deuteronomic  code  strictly  forbids  the^ 
father  on  the  day  he  divides  his  inheritance  to  leave 

1  So  Esarhaddon   was  the  favourite  but  not  the  eldest  son  of 
Sennacherib   (see   the   list  of  his  presents,    Sayce,   op.   cit.  p.   35). 
According  to  §  150  the  mother  also  had  this  right,  and  in  Meissner, 
no.  39,  two  brothers  buy  property  with  the  money  which  one  of  them 
had  received  from  his  mother,  and  in  no.    7  an  heiress  gives  her 
property   to  her  daughter    who   is   about    to  be  married,   but   the 
husband  is  also  mentioned,  and  it  is  possible  that  he  had  to  approve 
of  the  transaction. 

2  In  Arabia,  also,  the  law  of  primogeniture  appears  to  be  unknown 
(cp.  e.g.  Jacob,  Altarab.  Parallelen,  p.  13  ;  Berlin,  1897). 


140  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

the  double  portion  (i.e.  two  sons'  shares)  to  any 
other  than  the  first-born  of  his  first  wife  (21  is-i;).1 

The  mother's  marriage -portion  (seriktu)  and 
!  settlement  (nudunnu)  fall  to  the  children.2  Sons 
and  stepsons  share  equally  in  the  father's  property, 
but  the  seriktu  of  each  mother  is  divided  separately 
among  her  own  sons  (CH,  §  167).  If,  in  addition  to 
a  wife  (hirtum)>  a  man  has  had  a  maid -servant 
(amtu)?  and  has  had  sons  by  both,  these  share 
equally  in  the  goods  of  the  father's  house,  provided 
he  had  recognised  the  sons  of  his  maid-servant  by 
calling  them  /'my  sons"  (mare-u-d),  and  had 
reckoned  them  among  his  children,  but  the  children 
of  the  wife  have  a  higher  standing,  and  when  the 
goods  are  divided  they  obtain  the  first  choice  (i-na- 
za-ak-ma  i-li-ki,  lit.  they "  choose  and  take ;  §  1 70). 
If  the  father  has  not  recognised  the  children  which 
the  maid -servant  bore  him,  they  have  no  share  in 
the  goods,  but  receive  their  freedom  along  with 
their  mother,  and  the  sons  of  the  wife  have  no  claim 
upon  them  for  service  (§  171). 

Hebrew  custom  provided  for  the  recognition  of 
the  children  of  the  maid-servant  (Gen.  30  s),4  and 

1  In  a  New  Babylonian  contract  the  mother  leaves  her  dowry  to 
her  eldest  son  (Sayce,  op.  cit.  p.  34,  n.  i). 

2  Or  to  grandchildren   (so  in  the  will   cited  by  Sayce,  op.  cit. 
p.  29).     See  above,  pp.  87,  89. 

3  It  is  not  stated  that  the  wife  is  dead ;  contrast  §  167,  where  the 
second  wife  is  taken  after  the  first  "  has  gone  to  her  fate." 

4  Adoption   appears   to  have   been   rarely  practised  among  the 
Israelites  (cp.  EBi.  "Family,"  §  14),  although  there  may  be  a  few 
references  to  it  in  the  later  literature  (e.g.  Ps.  27  sq.). 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  141 

Ishmael  according  to  the  Elohist  (Gen.  21  10)  was 
co-heir  with  Isaac.  In  the  older  narrative,  on  the 
other  hand,  Isaac  is  the  sole  heir,  and  the  sons  of 
the  concubines  are  sent  away  with  gifts  (mattanoth  ; 
Gen.  24  36,  25  5  sq.,  J).  There  is  a  greater  humanity 
in  the  Elohist  narratives  towards  the  inferior  wife 
and  her  children,  and  when  Jephthah  was  thrust 
out  of  his  father's  house,  his  complaint  implies  that 
the  sons  of  concubines  were  entitled  to  certain  rights 
by  custom  (Judg.  11  7,  E  ;  cp.  v.  2,  P).1  But  even 
where  the  children  of  inferior  birth  receive  equal 
rights  of  inheritance  their  social  position  must  have 
been  below  that  of  the  sons  of  the  well-born  mother. 
So  in  Arabia,  Noldeke  (ZDMG,  40  153,  n.  3)  cites 
the  case  of  a  man  whose  father  was  one  of  the 
noblest  of  the  Fazara  but  his  mother  was  a  slave, 
on  which  account  he  was  unable  to  take  a  wife  from 
the  tribe.  Similarly,  Jazid  II.,  called  Ibn  Atika 
after  his  mother,  by  reason  of  his  superior  birth 
was  selected  above  his  step-brother  Maslama,  who 
though  of  equal  repute  was  the  son  of  a  slave.2 

On  the  death  of  her  husband  the  widow3  is 
entitled  to  her  marriage-portion  and  the  settlement 
which  he  had  secured  for  her  in  writing,4  and  is 

1  The  later  law  of  Syria  and  Arabia  required  the  children  of 
inferior  birth  to  be  recognised  before  they  could  obtain  a  share  in  the 
inheritance  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  12). 

2  Wellhausen,  Arab.  Reich  u.  sein  Sturz,  p.  194  sq.  (Berlin,  1902). 

3  A  new  law  commences  in  the  middle  of  §  171  (col.  xii.,  1.  78). 

4  The  rights  of  the  wife  to  the  nudunnu  are  laid  down  in  §  150, 
where  the  property  which  is  given  to  her  by  deed  cannot  be  disputed 
by  her  sons  (p.  89  above). 


142  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

i  allowed  to  live  in  her  husband's  dwelling-place 
\(su-ba-af).  She  cannot  dispose  of  them,  however, 
fand  at  her  death  they  go  to  her  children  (§  I7I).1 
If  her  husband  had  not  given  her  a  settlement  she 
takes  a  son's  share  of  the  goods  (cp.  §  137),  and  if 
her  sons  would  compel  her  to  leave  the  home  the 
judge  must  examine  into  her  past  (wa-ar-ka-za),  and 
if  the  fault  lies  with  them  she  need  not  go  out  of 
her  husband's  house  (§172).  If  the  widow  has 
made  up  her  mind  to  leave,  she  can  only  take  with 
her  the  seriktu  (i.e.  her  own  family's  gift),  the 
nudunnu  which  her  husband  gave  her  must  be  left 
for  her  sons,  and  she  is  now  free  to  marry  the  "  man 
of  her  heart."2  If  she  has  borne  children  by  the 
second  marriage,  her  marriage-portion  is  divided 
between  the  sons  of  both  unions  ;  otherwise  it  re- 
verts to  those  of  her  former  husband  (ka-wi-ru  ; 
i73^.).3 

The  widow's  position  is  thus  secured  in  so  far  as  it 

{ is  compatible  with  her  children's  interests.     She  has 

a  home  and  a  share  in  her  husband's  estate,  and  she 

1  So,  in  one  case  a  son  recovers  a  slave  which  his  mother  had 
sold  (Marx,  op.  cit.  p.  65,  cp.  p.  53).     The  marriage-settlement  re- 
verted to  the  sons  in  later  Jewish  times  ;  cp.  Keth.  4  12  [10]  :  "  The 
sons  that  shall  be  to  thee  from  me  inherit  the  money  of  thy  kethubta." 
See  pp.  87,  sqq.  above. 

2  The  last  sentence  in  §  172  (col.  xiii.  1.  27)  forms  a  new  law. 

3  Sayce's  observation  (pp.  cit.  p.  22  s$.)  that  the  children  of  the 
first  marriage  received  two-thirds  and  the  others  a  third  only,  may 
hold  good  for  later  times.      In  Meissner,  no.  109,  a  mother  gives  to 
three  sons,  and  they  have  no  claim  upon  whatever  she  or  her  other 
children  may  possess.     Whether  the  former  are  children  by  another 
husband  or  the  recognised  sons  of  a  concubine  is  not  stated. 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  143 

is  free  to  marry  again.1  If  the  children  are  still 
young,  she  cannot  enter  "  a  second  house "  (ana 
bitim  sa-ni-im)  without  the  consent  of  the  judge,2 
An  examination  is  made  of  the  extent  of  her 
husband's  estate,  and  it  is  entrusted  by  deed  to  the 
widow  and  her  second  husband,  who  act  as  trustees 
and  rear  up  the  little  ones.  Not  a  vessel  (u-ni-a-tini) 
may  they  sell,  and  whosoever  is  found  buying  of  the 
property  must  return  it  "to  its  owners"  (a-na  be- 
li-su)  and  forfeit  his  money  (§  177) — the  punishment 
for  the  seller  is  not  stated.3  It  is  possible  that 
under  certain  circumstances  the  judge  might  refuse 
his  consent,  and  in  one  late  contract-tablet  a  widow 
promises  not  to  enter  into  the  " house  of  a  male" 
(bit  zi-ka-ri),  but  to  dwell  with  her  sons  and  bring 
them  up,  and  it  appears  that  as  long  as  she  does 
this  she  enjoys  an  allowance.4 

1  There  is  no  law  as  to  the  length  of  time  she  must  remain  a 
widow,  but  it  was  probably  not  very  long  (cp.  p.  123).     The  Syro- 
Roman  law-book  gave  the  widow  who  remained  ten  months  in  her 
husband's  house  full  possession  of  her  linen  and  one-third  of  the 
jewels  ;  the  law  is  scarcely  of  Roman  origin  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  pp. 

63,  193). 

2  Cp.  §  137  (p.  119  above),  where  the  divorced  wife  or  concubine 
may  marry  after  her  children  are  grown  up. 

3  In  a   contract  of  the  time  of  Samsu-iluna,   Hammurabi's  suc- 
cessor, the  three  sons  of  Namiatu  dispute  with  their  mother  YaSuhatu 
about  the  contents  (?  mi-im-ma  nu-ma-af)  of  their  father's  house  ;  the 
case  is  settled  and  the  sons  agree  not  to  bring  complaints  against 
YaSuhatu,  Idin-Ramman  (her  second  husband  ?),  and  their  children 
(Meissner,  op.  tit.  no.  100). 

4  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Bab.  Rechtsleben^  2  9  sq.  (citing  Cambyses, 
no.  273);   cp.   Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  2  89  (the  widow  regarded  as  the 
guardian  of  her  sons'  inheritance). 


i44  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

The  Code  does  not  take  into  account  the  rights 
(of  the  childless  widow.  A  New  Babylonian  law, 
however,  enacts  that  if  the  marriage-portion  (here 
called  nudunnu]  had  been  taken  by  her  husband  it 
was  to  be  paid  in  full  from  his  possessions  (nikasi], 
if  her  husband  had  given  her  a  gift  (seriktii)  she 
was  entitled  to  claim  it  and  leave,  whilst  if  she  had 
received  no  nudunnu  the  judge,  after  an  examination 
of  the  estate,  was  to  give  her  in  proportion  to  its 
extent.1 

There  are  no  traces  in  Babylonia  of  that  wide- 
spread objection  to  the  re-marriage  of  a  widow 
which  still  lurks  in  Palestine  and  elsewhere,2  nor  is 
there  any  evidence  for  Delitzsch's  suggestion  that 
the  husband's  next-of-kin  had  duties  to  perform 
similar  to  those  of  the  Hebrew  goel?  Babylonia 
had  passed  far  beyond  that  stage  where  the  next-of- 
kin  inherits  the  widow  and  has  the  first  right  to  her,4 
and  her  position  was  a  surer  one  than  in  Israel, 
where  widowhood  was  a  reproach  (Is.  4 1,  544). 

1  ^£4323. 

2  PEFQ,  1894,  p.  138  sq.  ;  cp.  Frazer,  Paus.  3  198-200. 

3  Babel  and  Bible,  pp.  14,  92  sq.     The  evidence  is  founded  upon 
Sargon's  statement  that  "  his  father's  brother  took  no  care  for  his 
widowed  mother."     But  as  the  widow  is  not  childless,  there  can  be 
no  possibility  of  a  levirate,  and  the  words  are  usually  rendered  other- 
wise (EBi.  col.  3207).     Delitzsch's  conjecture,  if  it  could  be  proved, 
would  only  serve  to  show  that  the  Babylonians  in  Sargon's  day  were 
sociologically  more   akin  to  the    Israelites   than  they  were   sixteen 
centuries  later  under  Hammurabi. 

4  Cp.  EBi.  "  Marriage,"  §  8.    The  practice  is  still  prevalent ;  the 
nephew  will  marry  the  widowed  aunt,  even  when,  as  in  one  case,  he 
had  murdered  her  husband,  his  uncle  (Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  506,  2  26). 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  145 

Here,  she  either  remained  under  the  care  of  her 
husband's  family,  or  more  often,  perhaps,  returned 
to  her  own  kin  (Ruth) ;  in  neither  case  was  her  lot 
a  fortunate  one,  unless  she  was  influential l  or  married 
a  second  time.  The  original  Book  of  the  Covenant 
does  not  interest  itself  on  her  behalf  (Ex.  22  22  is 
a  later  expansion),  in  marked  contrast  with  the 
humane  exhortations  of  the  Deuteronomic  code. 
Later  Jewish  law  gave  the  widow  certain  rights  o 
inheritance  (cp.  Judith  8  7),  and  the  husband  might 
insert  a  clause  in  the  marriage-settlement  giving  her 
the  right  to  dwell  in  his  house  after  him,  and  to  be 
nourished  from  his  wealth  all  the  days  of  her  widow- 
hood (Keth.  4  12  [10]).  The  Judaean  custom,  how- 
ever, made  this  privilege  depend  upon  the  good- 
will of  the  heirs  who  had  the  power  to  give  her  the 
settlement  (kethubta)  and  send  her  away  (id.). 

Primitive   Semitic   law  does   not   recognise   the  \ 
ability  of  daughters  to  inherit.     In  Arabia  all  women 
were  excluded   from  inheritance    previous   to   Mo- 
hammed, whilst  in  Israel  the  law  which  allowed  the 
daughters  to  inherit  in  default  of  sons  belongs  to 
the  very  latest  part  of  the  Hexateuch  (Num.  27  36). 
The  Code  of  Hammurabi  concerns  itself  with  sons  i 
rather  than  with  daughters,2  but  there  are  sufficient/ 
indications  to  shew  that  the  daughter's  right,  if  re-/ 

1  Cp.  Wellhausen,  Ehe,  pp.  456,  467,  n.  i.  Tamar  returned  to 
her  father's  house  but  was  not  free  (Gen.  38  n);  Abigail,  notwith- 
standing Nabal's  wealth,  comes  to  David  with  her  servants  only 
(i  Sam.  2542). 

2  Orelli's  suggestion  that  daughters  are  included  in  the  sons  does 
not  seem  very  probable  (Gesetz  Hammurabis,  p.  44,  n.  i). 

10 


146  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

.  stricted,  was  more  generously  regarded  in  Babylonia. 
The  Code  insists,  for  example,  that  the  daughter 
of  a  concubine1   shall    receive    a   marriage-portion 
(seriktii),  and  if  her  father  has   given  her  one  by 
deed,  and  married  her  to  a  man  (a-na  mu-tim  id-di- 
is-si),  she   takes    no   share    in    the    goods    (§  183). 
Failing  this,  it  is  left  for  the  brothers  to  give  her  a 
portion  according  to  the  extent  of  the  estate  (e-mu- 
uk  bit  a-ba  ;   §  184).     The  daughters  of  the  high- 
born mother  were  probably  not  treated  so  summarily, 
but  no  doubt  received  a  small  share  in  the  estate  in 
addition  to  the  marriage-portion,  and  this  is  illus- 
trated  by  a   contract    of  the   time   of  Sumula-ilu, 
one  of  Hammurabi's   predecessors,  in  which  three 
brothers  record  that  they  have   given  their  sister 
her  share.2     It  is  not  likely  that  the  daughters  in 
such  cases  had  full  rights  to  dispose  of  their  portion  ; 
like  the  daughters  of  Job,  they  held  an  "  inheritance 
in  the  midst  of  their  brethren  " — mentioned  as  an 
exceptional  piece  of  generosity  on  the  part  of  the 
father  (Job  42  15) — and  received  the  usufruct.     From 
Babylonia  the  custom  passed  to  the  Jews  of  the 
post-biblical  period,  and  a  father   could  assure  his 
wife  in  his  testament  that  "  the  daughters,  females, 
that  shall  be  to  thee  from  me  shall  dwell  in  my 
house  and  be  nourished  from  my  wealth  (nekaszm) 
_until  they  are  married."8     The  care  taken  by  the 

1  marti-su   Su-ge-tim^    according   to    Johns,    "his   (the    father's) 
daughter,  a  concubine." 

2  Pinches,  op.  cit.  p.  181 ;  cp.  Marx,  op.  cit.  pp.  18-22. 

3  Mishnah,  Keth.  4  12  (10).  When  the  father  was  no  longer  alive, 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  147 

Code  to  ensure  the  rights  of  a  man's  daughters  by 
his  concubine  finds  an  analogy  in  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant,  which  introduces  laws  relating  to  the 
maid-servant  (p.  166  below).  Custom  had  already 
established  the  rights  of  the  well-born  daughters,  it 
was  only  those  of  inferior  birth  who  were  likely  to 
suffer. 

Further,  the  Code  presents  a  group  of  laws  pro- 
viding for  the  class  of  women  to  which  reference 
has  already  been  made — the  votary  and  the  courtesan 
zinnisat  zi-ik-ru-um).  The  rights  of  inheritance  of 
the  daughter  of  this  description  who  has  received  a 
marriage-portion l  from  her  father  depend  upon  the 
wording  of  the  tablet  or  deed.  If  he  has  written, 
"  After  her  whatever  is  good  to  her  to  give  "  (wa-ar- 
ka-za  e-ma  e-li-sa  ta-bu  na-da-nam),  that  is  to  say,  if 
she  has  full  choice,  she  can  leave  it  as  she  will  and 
her  brothers  can  have  no  claim  (§  179).  If  this 
clause  is  wanting,  the  brothers  take  her  field  and 
garden — her  share  in  the  estate — and  pay  her  corn, 
oil,  and  wool  according  to  its  value,  and  if  she  is  not 
satisfied  with  this,  she  gives  them  to  a  cultivator 
(irrisu)  who  shall  provide  for  her.  She  enjoys  the 
usufruct  as  long  as  she  lives,  but  she  cannot  sell  it 
for  money  nor  dispose  of  it  in  any  way,  since  her 

if  the  heirs  paid  the  minimum  dowry  (fifty  zilzlm),  the  sister  could 
claim  the  balance  when  she  attained  her  majority ;  the  court  esti- 
mated how  much  the  father  would  probably  have  given  her,  or,  if 
they  have  nothing  to  guide  them,  she  received  one-tenth  of  the 
estate  {Jewish  Encyclopaedia,  4  646^). 

1  The  question  must  be  left  open  whether  seriktu  in  this  group 
of  laws  should  not  be  rendered  simply  by  "gift." 


148  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

"sonship"  (ap-lu)  belongs  to  her  brothers  (§  178). 
\  The  daughter,  whether  a  bride  or  a  courtesan,  who 
has  not  received  a  marriage-portion,  on  the  father's 
death  takes  a  share  of  the  goods  like  one  son,  she 
has  the  use  of  it  as  long  as  she  lives,  and  when  she 
dies  it  is  her  brothers'  (§  180).  If  the  father  has 
vowed  to  God  (a-na  i-li  is-si-ma)  a  hierodule 
(kadistii)  or  a  virgin,1  but  has  not  given  her  a 
marriage-portion,  she  receives  a  third  of  a  son's 
share  as  long  as  she  lives,  which,  as  before,  reverts 
to  her  brothers  (§  181)  ;  if  the  votary  of  Marduk  of 
Babylon2  has  not  received  a  marriage-portion,  she 
is  still  entitled  to  one-third  of  a  son's  share,  and  can 
leave  it  after  her  as  she  pleases  (§  i82).3  Possibly 
these  receive  less  owing  to  the  character  of  their 
position. 

The  votary  of  Marduk  is  the  god's  wife  4  vowed 
to  perpetual  chastity,  and  is  therefore  distinct  from 
the  devotees  of  I  star.  Like  the  ordinary  courtesan 
(zinnisat  zi-ik-ru-um),  these  formed  a  separate  class  5 
and  enjoyed  special  privileges. 


the  translation  follows  Scheil  and  Winckler. 

2  According  to  Winckler,  this  includes  the  two  classes  of  temple 
women  in  §  181. 

3  The  law  also   contains  an  obscure    provision  (il-kam  u-ul  i-il- 
la-ak]  which  probably  means  that  she  shall  pay  no  tax  (so  Johns). 
As  Jeremias  observes  (Moses  ^l.  Hamm.  p.  17,  n.  i),  she  was  perhaps 
expected  to  leave  her  inheritance  to  the  temple. 

4  The  ceremonies  relating  to  the  consecration  of  the  god's  couch 
are  given  at  length  in  K   164  (Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  2635)  and  K  629 
(C.  Johnston,  Epistolary  Literature  of  the  Ass.  and  Bab.  p.  1  5  5  J 
Baltimore,  1898). 

5  Cp.  the  similar  class   in  Egypt,   Burckhardt,  Ar.  Prov.(*}  pp. 


X 

pltV  J 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  149 

The  statement  of  Herodotus  (1  199)  that  a  great 
system  of  prostitution  prevailed  in  Babylonia  has 
as  yet  failed  to  find  support  in  the  tablets,  and  the 
presence  of  certain  clauses  in  the  marriage-contracts 
to  which  reference  has  already  been  made 1  is  decisive 
for  earlier  times  at  least.  No  doubt  to  the  foreigner 
there  was  much  that  was  unintelligible,  and  the 
historian  has  probably  exaggerated  what  at  all  events 
was  sufficiently  common  (Baruch  6  43).  There  are, 
however,  many  indications  which,  considered  in  the 
light  of  comparative  custom,  go  to  prove  that 
Babylonia  legalised  and  sanctified  immoral  practices 
which  in  the  rest  of  the  Semitic  world  higher  ideals 
gradually  endeavoured  to  repress.2  The  priestesses 
of  the  temple,  many  of  whom  were  of  high  rank, 
carry  on  business,  the  profits  of  which  doubtless 
went  to  swell  the  temple  funds ;  one  of  these  ladies 
on  a  contract  bears  the  characteristic  name  Amat^ 
Samas,  "  handmaid  of  Samas." 3 

A  curious  law  in  CH,  §  no,  threatens  the  votary, 
who  was  not  living  in  a  convent  (E-GI-A),  who 
dared  to  open  a  tavern  (bit  GES-TIN-UO)  or  to 

173  sqq.  The  Heb.  zanah,  as  the  Arabic  usage  shews,  was 
originally  used  in  quite  a  harmless  sense  (Wellhausen,  Ehe,  p.  472, 
n.  2  ;  cp.  further  Noldeke,  ZDMG  40  155  and  n.  I  ;  Robertson 
Smith,  Kinshipf]  p.  151). 

1  P.  10 1,  n.  5,  p.  132,  n.  3,  above. 

2  It   is    sufficient    to    recall   the   denunciations    of  the    Hebrew 
prophets  (cp.  EBi.   "Harlot").     A  contract  referred  to  by  Peiser 
(Skizze  d.  babylon.  Gesellsch.  p.    13)  illustrates  the  prevalence  of  a 
practice  against  which  Lev.  19  29  is  urged. 

3  KB  4  43,  cp.  pp.  29,  37  ;  Scheil,  Sippar,  i.  1  107,  120,  etc* 


150  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

enter  one  to  drink  with  death  by  burning,  the  same 
penalty  that  was  inflicted  upon  the  man  who  com- 
mitted incest  (§  157).  It  has  been  conjectured  that 
the  votaries  were  Nazarites  and  were  under  the 
Nazarite  vow  to  abstain  from  wine.  This,  however, 
seems  hardly  probable,  and  the  term  Nazarite  is  only 
fitting  to  the  extent  that  the  Syriac  nezir  is  applied 
to  the  maidens  who  were  consecrated  to  the  service 
of  Beltis.  The  drinking-shop  was  kept  by  women, 
sometimes  by  female  slaves,1  and  the  Code  imposes 
upon  the  keeper  the  necessity  of  maintaining  order, 
]and  condemns  her  to  death  if  she  does  not  drive  off 
iany  riotous  assemblers  to  the  palace-guard  (CH, 
§  109).  In  post-biblical  times  the  lupanar  and  the 
tavern  are  practically  synonymous,  and  tradition 
accordingly  assumed  that  Rahab  kept  a  iravboKelov? 
The  Babylonian  wine-shop  was  probably  a  similar 
institution,  on  which  account  the  votary,  owing  to 
her  sacred  office,  was  naturally  prohibited  from 
associating  with  the  frequenters  of  such  houses  of 
ill-fame. 

The  absence  of  further  material  in  the  Code 
makes  it  unnecessary  for  us  to  deal  at  greater  length 
with  the  rights  of  inheritance  of  women  in  Semitic 

1  So  in  a  contract  of  the  sixth  year  of  Cambyses  referred  to  by 
Sayce  (op.  tit.  p.  72).      In  Meissner,  op.  tit.  no.  35,  Ibik-Istar  buys 
a  beer-house  with  an  underground  cellar. 

2  Cp.  the  references  in  Levy,  Chald.  Worterbuch,  p.  271  sq.     An 
obscure  allusion  cited  by  Erman  (Life  in  Ancient  Egypt,  p.    144) 
may  imply  that  the  women  of  the  harem  in  Egypt  were  not  supposed 
to  enter   taverns.     Meissner   (I.e.]  cites   from  a  collection  of  Ass. 
precepts  :   "  Sir  (beluni)  \  enter  not  into  the  drinking-house." 


CHAP,  vi  THE  FAMILY  151 

law  or  with  the  laws  of  intestacy.  The  remarkable  [ 
features  of  the  latter  as  they  appear  in  the  Syro-  ' 
Roman  law-book  do  not  require  consideration,  there- 
fore, and  it  will  be  sufficient  in  concluding  our  survey 
of  the  family  to  notice  as  briefly  as  possible  their 
bearing  upon  the  present  subject.  The  underlying 
principles,  as  Bruns  *  has  pointed  out  in  the  course 
of  his  valuable  investigation,  are  characteristic  partly 
of  Jewish,  partly  of  Roman  law,  but  there  is  no 
sound  reason  for  the  supposition  that  the  fifth 
century  should  have  produced  any  artificial  or 
arbitrary  combination  of  two  such  distinct  systems^, 
Under  these  circumstances  he  argues  that  the  kernel 
of  the  laws  existed  in  old  customary  usage  in  Syria, 
and  the  resemblance  which  they  have  with  Jewish 
law  is  naturally  to  be  ascribed  to  the  close  relation- 
ship between  the  peoples  of  Syria  and  Judaea^ 
The  analogies  with  Roman  law,  on  the  other  hand, 
are  not  sufficiently  characteristic  to  suggest  borrow^ 
ing.  It  is  in  the  nature  of  things  that  like  laws 
should  take  their  rise  under  like  conditions  among 
the  most  widely  separated  peoples,  although  Bruns 
is  careful  to  observe  that  here,  as  in  certain  othef 
cases,  the  resemblances  which  were  already  in  exist- 
ence have  doubtless  been  enhanced  by  jurists  who 
were  well  acquainted  with  Roman  procedure.  To" 
this  we  need  only  add  that  analogies  in  the  Syrian 
collection  with  Babylonian  law  have  been  and  will 
be  noticed  in  these  pages  from  time  to  time,  and 
when  it  is  remembered  that  the  general  principles 

1  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  pp.  303-316. 


152  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vi 

of  the  Babylonian  family  system  are  distinctly  re- 
miniscent of  ancient  Rome,1  it  seems  difficult  to 
resist  the  conclusion  that  the  curious  likeness  of  the 
Syrian  laws  of  intestacy  to  Jewish  and  Roman  pro- 
cedure is  directly  due  to  their  Babylonian  origin. 
On  this  account,  therefore,  it  is  much  to  be  regretted 
that  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  in  spite  of  the  fulness 
with  which  it  deals  with  the  family,  has  little  to  say 
on  the  subject  of  intestacy.2 

1  P.  128,  above;  cp.  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  15,  n.  i. 

2  Peiser  (Bab.  Rechtsleben^  2  16-18)  has  concluded  that  the  estate 
of  the  man  who  left  no  son  would  pass  to  the  man's  parents,  brothers, 
or  sisters ;  females,  provided  they  had  male  descendants,  could  only 
enjoy  the  usufruct. 


CHAPTER   VII 

SLAVES   AND    LABOURERS 

Slaves  in  Babylonia — Their  protection — Rights  of  slave-owners — 
Slavery  for  debt — Marriage-laws  of  slaves — Their  position  in 
Israel — Laws  for  Hebrew  slaves — Humane  tendency  of 
Deuteronomy — Status  and  wages  of  hirelings — Responsibilities 
of  labourers — and  of  shepherds — General  resemblance  of  laws 
among  pastoral  folk. 

SLAVERY  in  the  East  was  not  the  institution  that  it 
became  in  Italy  and  Greece  or  in  the  mediaeval  and 
modern  world.  The  rights  which  a  man  could 
exercise  over  his  slave  did  not  differ  so  widely  from 
those  which  he  held  over  his  family.  The  slave  could 
attain  high  positions,  he  could  marry  free  women, 
or  be  adopted  into  his  master's  family.  He  was  not 
debarred  from  holding  private  possessions  or  from 
trading  on  his  own  account,  and  by  this  means  he 
was  able,  if  fortunate,  to  purchase  his  freedom.  In 
a  pastoral  community  where  wants  are  few  and 
easily  supplied  there  is  little  requirement  for  slave 
labour,  but  with  the  growing  strenuousness  of  daily  I 
life,  with  the  pursuit  of  agriculture  and  commerce,  J 
and  with  the  growth  of  luxury,  there  is  the  desire  to  ! 
avoid  manual  labour  and  to  utilise  the  cheap  services  ! 

153 


154  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

[  of  slaves,   and   slavery  becomes  ultimately   an    in- 
Ldispensable  factor  in  the  ancient  social  economy. 

Slavery  was  the  penalty  for  certain  offences,  it 
was  often   the    unfortunate    climax  of  unsuccessful 
commercial  transactions,  and  it  was  frequently  the 
lot  of  captives  taken  in  military  expeditions.     The 
slave's  standing  was  necessarily  below  that  of  the 
hired  servant,  although  the  latter  might  easily  sink 
into  slavery  from  which   he  might    never  emerge. 
The  glebcz  adscripti  were  under  an  obligation  to 
perform  a  certain  amount  of  work  for  their  owners, 
and  a  man's  slaves  were  able  to  amass  property 
which  remained — partly  at  least — in  their  own  keep- 
ing.1    A  distinction  is  always  maintained  between 
the  labourer  and  the  slave,  but  under  the  latter  term 
it   is   not    infrequently   difficult   to    determine    the 
degree  of  servility  that  is  implied.     In  Babylonia 
Ithe  slave  forms  a  distinct  class,  ardu,  fem.  amtu, 
•corresponding  to  the   Heb.   *ebed,  fem.  amah,  and 
includes  man  (maid)-servant  as  well  as  male  (female) 
slave.     That  the  Hebrew  *ebed  is  often  applied  to 
no  more  than  a  trusty  retainer  is  familiar,  and  it 
was    not    otherwise    in    Babylonia.2       The    terms 
servant  and  slave  must,  therefore,  be  regarded  as 
synonymous  to  some  extent  in  these  pages. 
I      In  Babylonia  slaves  do  not  appear  to  have  been 
[very  numerous,  and  as  a  rule  the  contracts  only  refer 

1  But  it  was  strictly  forbidden  to  do  business  with  a  slave,  except 
with  contracts  and  in  the  presence  of  witnesses  (CH,  §  7). 

2  Thus  CH,  §  146  :   the  amtu  whom  the  wife  has  given  to  her 
husband   in  marriage  is   degraded   and  counted  among  the  amdti 
(female  slaves). 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  155 

to  two  or  three  at  a  time.  The  relations  betweem 
master  and  slave  were  legally  secured  to  a  greater! 
degree  in  Babylonia  than  in  Israel.  The  servant 
is  the  property  of  his  owner  (de-el  ardi)?  a  valuable 
asset  whom  it  is  his  master's  interest  to  protect,  and 
for  whose  loss  his  owner  is  entitled  to  compensation. 
If  through  the  negligence  of  another  (e.g.  a 
physician  or  a  builder)  the  servant  dies,  the  offender 
is  ordered  to  render  " servant  for  servant"  (§§  219, 
231).  If  a  servant  dies  through  a  distraint  in  the 
house,  "  of  blows  or  of  want,"  or  if  he  is  gored  to 
death  by  an  ox  which  should  have  been  kept  under 
restraint,  the  compensation  is  one-third  of  a  mina  of 
silver  (§§  116,  252)^  This  is  also  the  penalty  for 
the  maid-servant  who  dies  from  a  particular  kind 
of  injury  (§214).  If  the  servant  has  been  assaulted 
or  negligently  doctored,  and  loses  an  eye  or  a  limb, 
the  compensation  is  fixed  at  half  his  price  (§§  199, 
220).  The  owner,  for  his  part,  was  bound  to  regard  I 
the  health  of  his  slave,  and  pay  his  doctor's  bill,[ 
though  the  fees  in  this  case  were  considerably 
reduced  (two  shekels,  §§  217,  223).  The  man  who 
hired  a  slave  from  his  master  was  bound  to  feed  and 
clothe  him,  and  according  to  one  old  Babylonian  law, 
if  the  hired  slave  died  through  overwork,  fled,  or 
became  enfeebled,  the  hirer  was  open  to  a  penalty.3 

1  He  is  entered  in  contracts  as   I  SAG  ardu,  "  one  piece  (head) 
slave "  ;  cp.  Gr.  (rw/xa  avSpetov  (yvvaiKetov).     As  among  the  Greeks 
and  Romans,  the  Semitic  slave  has  no  genealogy. 

2  The  amount  represents  the  average  price  of  a  slave  (cp.  Sayce, 
op.  tit,  pp.  69  sq.  75  sq.}. 

3  KB  4  340 :    the  ten  KA  of  corn    which   the  law  fixes  as   the 


156  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

One  of  the  worst  of  crimes  was  to  assist  a  run- 
away slave.  The  man  who  brought  a  palace  slave 
(arade-kal,  amat  e-kat)  or  a  poor  man's  slave  out  of 
the  city  gate  (abulli)  was  put  to  death  (§  15).  The 
penalty  is  the  same  as  for  theft,  and  the  wording 
of  the  law  suggests  that  it  applies  to  all  slaves,  from 
those  of  the  palace  to  those  of  the  poor  man  inclusive. 
The  death-penalty  was  also  inflicted  upon  the  house- 
owner  who  sheltered  a  slave  from  the  palace  or  the 
poor  man,  and  refused  to  hand  him  over  at  the 
command  of  the  constable  (nagiru ;  §  I6).1  The 
civil  authority  probably  had  the  power  to  search  all 
houses.2  Appeal  could  be  made  to  them  by  the 
owner  of  the  lost  slave,  and  in  a  letter  of  Abesu,  the 
eighth  of  the  dynasty  of  Hammurabi,  a  man  enlists 
the  aid  of  the  officials  in  his  search  after  a  fugitive 
female  servant,  and  the  king  himself,  having  learned 
of  her  whereabouts,  gives  orders  for  her  to  be 
returned  to  Babylon.3  If  a  man  found  a  fugitive 
slave  in  the  open  country  (i-na  si-ri-im),  and  the 
slave  would  not  name  (la  iz-za-kar)  his  owner,  he 
was  brought  to  the  palace  and  an  inquiry  held  into 
his  past  (wa-ar-ka-zu),  after  which  he  was  restored 
to  his  owner  (§  18).  If  the  fugitive  was  detained  in 
the  house  of  the  man  who  found  him  and  was 
caught  in  the  man's  possession,  that  man  was  to  be 

penalty  appears  to  be  paid  daily  until  the  length  of  time  for  which 
the  slave  was  hired  had  elapsed. 

1  Probably  an  overseer  or  commander. 

2  This  could  be  done,  also,  in  search  of  stolen  property  ;  cp.  p.  2 1 8, 
below. 

3  King,  Letter s^  p.  134. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  157 

put  to  death — a  case  of  theft  (§  19),  but  if  the  slave 
escaped  from  the  finder,  the  man  could  swear  (i-za- 
kar-ma)  by  the  name  of  God  and  be  acquitted  (§  20). 
Finally,  the  man  who  found  a  fugitive  slave  in  the 
open  country  and  drove  him  back  to  his  owner 
became  entitled  to  a  reward  of  two  shekels  of  silver 
(§  17).  Laws  relating  to  fugitive  slaves  are  prac- 
tically the  same  everywhere1 — with  the  notable 
exception  of  the  Deuteronomic  code  to  be  noticed 
presently — the  concealment  of  a  runaway  is  regarded^ 
as  theft,  but  the  death-penalty  is  modified.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Syro-Roman  law-book,  a  man  who  took 
a  slave  that  was  not  his,  knowing  that  he  was  a 
fugitive,  was  condemned  to  slavery,  which,  as  Bruns 
observes,  is  not  in  accordance  with  Roman  law, 
which  only  requires  pecuniary  compensation  or  a 
restitution  of  one  or  more  slaves.2 

The  slave  was  bought  on  approval,  and  the 
Code  lays  it  down  that  if  he  had  not  fulfilled  his  month 
(arhu-su  la  im-la-ma]  and  sickness  (bi-en-nif  fell 
upon  him,  he  was  to  be  restored  to  the  seller  and 
the  money  returned  (§  278),  and  if  a  slave  was 
bought  and  a  dispute  (by  a  third  party)  arose,  the 
seller  was  to  be  held  responsible  (§  279).  These 
laws  are  illustrated  by  the  contracts,4  where  it  is 

1  Dareste,  Journal  des  Savants,  1902,  p,  521,  n.  2. 

2  Op.  cit.  p.  215. 

3  Scheil  suggests  paralysis.     At  a  later  date  a  hundred  days  was 
allowed  for  the   bennu  to  show  itself.     Mention  is  also  made  in 
contracts  of  the  tepitum  for  which  one  to  three  days  was  allowed  (e.g. 
KB  4  41,  45). 

4  Cp.  KB  4  41,  and  frequently. 


158  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

guaranteed  generally  that  no  one  has  a  prior  claim 
to  the  slave,  that  he  (or  she)  did  not  belong  to  the 
royal  household,  and  had  not  been  adopted  by  any 
one.  Thus  the  attempt  to  dispose  of  a  slave  who 
suffered  from  an  incurable  disease  was  frustrated,  and 
the  responsibility  for  any  dispute  that  might  arise 
in  case  of  contested  ownership  fell  upon  the  right 
shoulders.  The  system  of  purchase  upon  approval, 
which,  by  the  way,  was  not  restricted  to  slaves,1 
passed  into  the  Syro- Roman  law-book,  where  a  slave 
is  taken  for  six  months  and  the  detriments  consist 
of  disease,  demoniacal  possession,  prior  right,  etc.2 

If  a  merchant  bought  foreign  slaves  in  another 
land,  and  on  his  return  these  were  recognised  by 
their  former  owner,  the  buyer  swore  "  before  God  " 
the  price  he  had  paid  for  them  and  restored  them 
to  their  owner,  in  return  for  which  he  received  the 
amount  in  question  (§  281).  On  the  other  hand,  if 
the  slaves  were  natives  (mare  ma -tint),  i.e. 
Babylonians,  and  their  former  owner  recognised 
them,  they  must  be  given  back  without  compensation 
(§  280).  In  the  latter  case  it  is  presumed  that  the 

1  Kohler,  Beit.  z.  Assyr.  4  428,  cites  Cambyses,  153,  where  goods 
are  thus  taken  ;  so  in  the  Laws  of  Manu  (8  222)  property  may  be 
purchased  on  ten  days'  trial.      In  China,  too,  the  slave  was  usually 
taken  for  a  month  on  approval  (Letourneau,  Property,  p.  166). 

2  Op.  cit.  §§  39,    113.      The    Babylonian    phraseology  is  most 
marked  in  the  Jewish  contracts  (cp.  Gitt.  f.  86<z),  where  it  is  certified 
that  the  slave  is  free  from  blemish,  is  not  liable  to  emancipation,  that 
no  one  has  a  prior  right,  and  that  he  is  under  no  obligation  to  the 
king  or  queen  (see  the  quotations  by  Nathan,   Orient.  Litter atur- 
zeitung,  April  1903,  col.  184;  Pick,  Assyrisches  und  Talmudisches, 
p.  25). 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  159 

buyer  should  have  known  that  they  belonged  to  a 
Babylonian  owner  and  should  have  protected  him- 
self in  the  contract  recording  the  sale.  Both  Scheil 
and  Johns  understand  that  the  buyer  must  grant  the 
slaves  their  freedom,  but  this  would  not  benefit  the 
former  owner,  and  is  improbable  in  view  of  the  laws 
relating  to  fugitive  slaves.1 

The  slave — not  the  servant — was  branded  with  a 
mark  which  usually  appears  to  have  been  delible,  in 
order  that  it  might  be  replaced  by  a  fresh  one  when 
he  changed  hands.  Each  owner  probably  had  some 
special  mark  to  distinguish  his  property,  similar  to 
the  Arabian  wasm  or  nar?  which  was  placed  upon 
the  slave's  face  or  ear.3  If  the  brander  (gallabu)* 
without  (the  consent  or  knowledge  of)  the  owner 
branded  an  indelible  mark,  his  hands  were  cut  off 
(§  226) ;  and  the  man  who  feloniously  caused  him  to 

1  ana  du-ra-ar-u-su-nu  is-ta-ak-ka-an  ;  cp.  §  117   (p.  229  below), 
where  Scheil  translates  "  to  their  first  condition  he  shall  restore  them  " 
(of  the  freedom  granted  to  a  man's  wife  and  children  after  three 
years'  enslavement  for  debt). 

2  ReL    Sem.W   p.    480;   Kinship®   p.  247  sqq.     The  custom  of 
branding    slaves    was    prevalent;    cp.    Herod.    7233    (Persia)    and 
Wiedemann,  Herod,  p.  183  (Leipzig,  1890). 

3  Cp.   Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  152,  who  cites  Cambyses,  291,  where 
the  slave   has  a  brand-mark  on  the   ear.     Cp.   also  KB  4 167  and 
Peisefs  note.     In  a  contract  of  the  twenty-sixth  year  of  Darius,  two 
female  slaves  have  the  name  of  their  owner  tattooed  upon  their  wrist 
(Sayce,  op.  cit.  p.  185).      In  later  Jewish  times  reference  is  made  to  a 
seal  upon  the  slave's  neck  or  clothing  (Talm.  Bab.  Shabb.  f.  58^). 

4  The  Hebrew  gallab  is   used  of  the  barber;   in  a  Phoenician 
inscription  from  Citium  (CIS  1  no.  86),  \hzgallab  figures  among  the 
temple-servants.      On  the  Ass.  word,  see  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  152. 


160  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

make  an  indelible  brand  was  killed  and  buried  in  his 
own  house,  whilst  the  brander,  by  swearing,  "  I  did 
not  brand  him  wittingly"  (i-na  i-du-u  la  u-gal-li- 
bu-u),  was  acquitted  (§  227).1  The  amputation  of  the 
hands,  and  the  specific  mention  of  the  burial  of  the 
criminal,  are  features  which  recur  elsewhere  in  the 
laws  dealing  with  theft  (§§  253,  21),  and  may  be 
reserved  for  later  treatment.2  Branding  was  also 
the  punishment  inflicted  upon  the  man  who  unjustly 
libelled  a  woman  (§  127),  and  upon  the  owner's 
handmaid  who  arrogantly  set  herself  upon  an  equality 
with  her  mistress  (§  146).  It  seems  to  have  been 
regarded,  therefore,  as  a  sign  of  degradation3  which 
reduced  the  bearer  to  a  lower  rank  than  the  ordinary 
servant,  and  since  it  was  possible  under  ordinary 
circumstances  for  a  man  to  rise  or  even  to  receive 
/  his  freedom,  the  punishment  for  making  the  brand 
indelible  was  naturally  heavy.  If  this  interpretation 
be  correct,  the  interests  of  the  slave,  as  well  as  of  his 
owner,  are  protected  by  these  two  laws.  The  slave 
who  repudiated  his  owner  with  the  words,  "  Thou  art 
not  my  master"  (u-ul  be-li  at-ta),  is  charged,  and  his 
master  cuts  off  his  ear  (§  282).  The  same  punishment 
is  meted  out  for  a  particular  kind  of  bodily  assault 
(§  205),  and  it  is  possible  that  it  was  a  mark  of 
perpetual  slavery. 

1  Cp.  above,  p.  61,  n.  i. 

2  P.  212  sq.  below.     The  subject  of  "accessories"  is  but  rarely 
handled  in   the  older  Semitic  legislation   (see  the  Jewish  Encyclo- 
pcedia^  s.v.). 

3  In  ancient  Greece,  it  was  inflicted  upon  slaves  who  stole  or  ran 
away  (cp.  the  S/oaTrerTys  ecrrty^evos  of  Aristophanes). 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  161 

A  man  might  pledge  or  sell  his  wife  and  children 
for  a  debt,1  but  at  the  end  of  three  years  they 
were  to  be  returned  (§  1 1 7).  The  slaves,  on  the 
other  hand,  who  were  delivered  over  in  order  to 
work  off  a  debt,  might  be  removed  or  sold  by  the 
merchant  (the  creditor)  at  his  will,  and  no  objection 
could  be  raised  (§  118).  An  exception,  however, 
was  to  be  made  in  favour  of  the  female  servant  who 
had  borne  children  for  her  master ;  she  must  be 
ransomed  for  the  amount  that  her  owner  had 
received  for  her  (§  119).  The  last-mentioned  law  is 
extended  by  another  which  has  survived  in  a  British 
Museum  tablet  of  the  New  Babylonian  age.  Here, 
if  a  man  sold  a  female  slave  (a-mi-lu-ut-tt),  and 
reserved  the  right  of  repurchase,  if  children  were 
born,  he  could  not  buy  the  mother  without  the 
children,  and  for  the  latter  he  must  pay  at  the  rate 
of  half  a  shekel  of  silver  each.2  Other  privileges  of 
the  maid -servant  who  had  become  her  master's 
concubine  have  been  noticed  in  previous  chapters 
(pp.  112,  140  above),  and  may  be  briefly  recapitulated. 
It  is  only  when  childless  that  she  can  be  sold  for 
misdemeanour  (§  147),  otherwise  she  is  branded  and 
counted  among  the  slaves  (§  146).  Her  children 
share  in  the  estate,  provided  they  have  been  recog- 
nised by  the  father,  and  under  no  circumstances  have 
the  other  sons  claim  upon  her  or  her  children  for 
servitude  (§  1 70  sq). 

1  Under  ordinary  circumstances  a  woman  could  be  seized  by  her 
husband's  creditor  (CH,  §  151);  see  below,  p.  228  sq. 

2  KB  4  320. 


162  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP.  VH 


, 


The  slave  might  contract  a  marriage  with  a 
woman  of  rank  superior  to  his  own.1  The  Code 
enacts  that  if  the  slave  of  the  palace  or  the  slave  of 
a  poor  man  (i.e.  any'  slave)  has  taken  in  marriage 
(i-hu-uz-ma)  the  daughter  of  a  freeman  (a-wi-lu)  and 
she  has  borne  sons,  his  owner  has  no  claim  upon 
them  for  service  (§  175).  If  the  woman  brought  with 
her  a  marriage -portion  \(seriktu)  from  her  father's 
house,  and  they  both  acquire  goods  (property),  when 
the  slave  dies  the  woman  takes  for  herself  and  for 
her  children  the  marriage -portion  and  one -half  of 
the  goods  which  they  acquired  since  their  marriage, 
and  the  owner  of  the  slave  takes  the  other  half 
(§  176*2:).  The  same  applies  also  to  the  woman  who 
had  no  marriage-portion  (§  i76£).2  The  children  are 
free,  and  the  goods  that  have  been  amassed  by  the 
slave  and  his  wife  are  equally  divided,  doubtless 
because  the  owner  is  entitled  to  a  share  of  his  slave's 
profits.  The  slave  did  not  always  possess  a  house 
of  his  own,  and  part  of  the  expenses  probably  rested 
upon  the  owner.  A  very  similar  principle  is  to  be 
observed  in  the  Syro-Roman  law-book,3  in  the  law 

1  So    in    a    Nabatacan    inscription   from   the    neighbourhood   of 
Damascus,  Hani'u  is  both  the  freedman  and  husband  of  Gadlu  ;  their 
sons  are  adopted  by  'Abd-maliku,  whose  relation  to  the  couple  is  not 
stated  (C.I.S.  2,  no.  161  ;  dated  A.D.  94). 

2  The  identical  wording  of  the  two  parts  of  this  law  is  somewhat 
perplexing.     One   expects   the  owner  to  be   compelled  to  give  the 
woman  an    additional    compensation.     Possibly  §  176^  is   an  after- 
thought.    At  all   events  one  may  contrast  the  Hebrew  method  of 
stating  a  similar  case  in  Ex.  21  31. 

8  The  law  relating  to  the  marriage  of  a  slave  with  a  free  woman 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  163 

dealing  with  the  separation  of  a  man  and  his  wife. 
If  the  wife  brought  female  slaves  or  herds,  and  there 
are  young  ones,  the  wife  took  with  her  all  that  she 
brought  and  half  of  all  that  was  born  (children  or 
cattle),  after  the  marriage  ;  the  remaining  half  belong 
to  the  husband  "  because  they  have  been  nourished 
at  his  expense."1 

If  the  slave's  rights  were  less  fully  secured  by  law*, 
in  ancient  Israel,  his  position  at  all  events  was  morel 
tolerable.     In  Israel,  as  in  Babylonia,  many  of  the  ' 
slaves  had  grown  up  in  their  master's  service  and  I 
had   become   trusted    servants,    like    Eliezer,2   who 
was  regarded   as  heir  (Gen.    15  1-4)   and  acted  in 
Abraham's  stead  (Gen.  24),   and   that  this  was  no 
isolated  case  is  clear  from  Prov.  17  2,  8623.     So,  too, 
a  man  gives  his  daughter  to  a  servant  who  was  not 
of    his    tribe    (i    Chron.    2  34    sq.),    and    the  *ebed 
accompanying  the  youthful  Saul  is  really  a  guardian 
who  has  money,  and  is  treated  as  his  young  master's 
equal  (i  Sam.  93-8,  22).     Ziba,  who  belonged  to  Saul's 
household,  had  twenty  servants  under  him  and  was 
perhaps   a  polygamist,   and  to  him   was    entrusted 
the   duty   of  managing  his   young  master's  estate 

in  this  collection  is  in  accordance  with  Roman  principle  (Bruns  and 
Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  215,  §  48).  The  children  belong  to  the  owner  of 
the  slave,  and  according  to  later  Mohammedan  law,  if  the  parents 
were  the  property  of  separate  owners  these  share  them  equally  (Kohler, 
Rechtsvergleich.  Stud.  p.  13). 

1  Bruns  and  Sachau,  §  105,  p.  275  sq. 

2  The  retainer  is  also  designated  na  ar,  nddrah^  in  the  pre-exilic 
literature,  but  the  terms  are  by  no  means  exclusively  restricted  (see 
the  details  in  Brown-Driver-Briggs,  Heb.  Lex.  s.v.}. 


164    )  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 


\(2    Sam.    9).     Even   in  the  latest  legislation   it  is 

\assumed  that  the  bond-slave  could  earn  and  save  up 
'money  (Lev.  25  49),  and  a  just  master  piqued  himself 
upon  the  regard  he  paid  to  the  complaint  (mispat, 
lit.  suit)  of  his  servants  (Job  31  13-15). 

The  roseate  picture  which  we  have  drawn  of  the 
.slave's  position  in  ancient  Israel — and  it  is  not  very 

jdifferent  in  some  primitive  Semitic  communities  of 
to-day — was  not  without  its  analogies  in  Babylonian 

I  life,  but  there  is  very  good  reason  to  believe  that  on 
the  whole  it  was  less  tolerable  there.  The  Israelite 
man-servant  was  of  his  master's  religion  and  shared 
in  his  master's  cult.  It  is  true  he  was  lightly 
esteemed ;  he  was  his  master's  property,  and  his 
master  might  be  expected  to  take  some  care  of  him, 

\  but  beyond  this  his  life  was  of  little  save  monetary 
value. 

Early  Hebrew  law  concerns  itself  with  the 
Hebrew  slave  only  (Ex.  21 2  sqq.) :  it  is  not  the  home- 
born  (yelid  bayitJi)  or  one  who  is  "  bought  with 
money "  (miknath  kdsepti)  from  strangers,1  but  the 
native,  probably  one  who  has  been  sold  or  has  sold 
himself  for  a  debt.  \  He  was  to  serve  six  years,  and 
in  the  seventh  year  he  was  to  go  free  without 
payment  of  any  ranson.OHe  was  to  go  out  as  he 
came  in.  If  he  was  tHe^possessor  of  a  wife  (ba'al 
issah\  his  wife — and  doubtless  the  children — go  out 

1  For  the  terms,  cp.  Gen.  14  14,  Jer.  2  14,  and  Gen.  17  12. 

2  Cp.  the  wording  of  CH,  §117,  the  wife,  son,  or  daughter  given 
for  a  debt,  "  for  three  years  they  shall  work  (i-ib-bi-ht)  ...  in  the 
fourth  year  they  shall  be  free." 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  165 

with  him,  and  if  his  lord  (adonim)  gave  him  a  wife, 
and  she  had  borne  him  children,  he  must  leave  these 
behind.  In  the  latter  case  we  must  understand 
either  that  the  slave  married  with  his  master's 
consent  or  that  one  of  the  female  slaves  was  given 
to  him.1  Under  these  circumstances  the  slave  might 
prefer  to  remain  with  his  master ;  his  helpless 
position  exposed  him  to  every  hardship,  and  it  is  not 
until  the  introduction  of  the  Deuteronomic  Code  that 
the  master  is  exhorted  to  send  his  slave  away  with  a 
liberal  present.  Accordingly  he  is  brought  by  his 
owner  " before  God"  and  his  (right?)  ear  is  bored 
with  an  awl.  The  rite,  in  view  of  the  Babylonian 
law  (above,  p.  160),  is  peculiarly  suggestive,  and 
one  is  led  to  conjecture  that  it  is  not  to  be  associated 
in  any  way  with  the  sacredness  of  the  door-post  or 
threshold,  but  is  a  modification  of  the  mark  of 
perpetual  slavery  which  the  Code  inflicts  upon  the 
thief.2  The  custom  of  boring  the  ear  is  too  common, 
at  all  events,  to  lead  to  the  conjecture  that  the 
Israelites  borrowed  the  idea  from  Babylonia.3 

1  Benzinger   (EBi.  col.    4655)   unnecessarily   supposes  that  the 
Hebrew  master  either  took  the  female  slave  himself  or  gave  her  to  his 
son,  in  which  case  the  slave's  wife  would  be  a  foreigner ;  but  see 
below,  p.  167,  n.  2. 

2  The  usually  adopted  view  that  the  slave's  ear — his  obedience — is 
thus  firmly  nailed  to  the  house  and  pledged  to  it  for  the  future  seems 
to  require  some  qualification.     The  door  and  the  post  would  seem  to 
be  mentioned  only  as  typical  places  where  the  ceremony  could  be 
performed. 

3  Cp.    inter  alia    Clermont-Ganneau,   Rec.   d?  Archeologie   Orient. 

^.    (1903).      According    to    Kidd,    1  2,    the    slave    who    has 


1 66  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

The  Book  of  the  Covenant  has  an  important  law 
on  the  rights  of  the  female  slave  (amak)  who  had 
been  married  by  her  owner.1  The  woman  who  is 
sold  by  her  father — no  reason  is  offered — was  not 
Ito  be  treated  like  the  men-servants,  and  if  she  no 
Jonger  found  favour  in  her  master's  eyes,  he  was  not 
ipermitted  to  sell  her  to  strangers.  He  might  allow 
her  to  be  ransomed,  or  transfer  her  with  a  marriage- 
portion  to  his  son,  or  even  retain  her  and  take 
another  (maid-servant),  without  curtailing  any  of 
her  rights  (clothing,  food,  marriage -rights).  In 
default  of  all  these  she  goes  out  free  (Ex.  21 7-n).2 
Reading  between  the  lines,  we  may  suppose  that 
the  law  is  a  novelty.  It  raises  the  position  of  the 
married  slave  rather  nearer  to  that  of  the  free 
woman,  and  leads  to  the  inference  that  the  status 
of  the  latter  was  correspondingly  higher.  It  was 
also  good  custom  in  Arabia  not  to  sell  the  concubine 
or  to  give  her  in  marriage  to  another.3 

Still  more  notable  is  the  advance  in  the  Deutero- 
nomic  legislation.  The  freedom  of  the  Hebrew 

undergone  this  rite  becomes   free  at  the  year  of  Jubilee  or  at  his 
master's  death. 

1  Early  Hebrew  usage  may  have  distinguished  between  the  amah 
and  the  sipkhah^  the  latter  perhaps  occupying  a  more  humble  position 
(cp.  i  Sam.  25  41  ?).     This  does  not  hold  good  for  later  times,  how- 
ever, where  the  former  is  preferred  by  E,  the  latter  by  J,  respectively. 
The  ordinary  female  servant  is  also  called  nadrah,  e.g.  in  2  Kings 
5  2-4,  where  the  standing  of  a  captive  girl  in  the  house  of  her  mistress 
(gebereth)  is  illustrated  in  a  pleasing  manner. 

2  On  the  passage  see  Robertson  Smith,  Zeit.  d.  alt-test.  Wissens. 
1892,  p.  163;  Kinship^  p.  in. 

3  Cp.  Dillmann  and  Ryssel,  Exod.  p.  253. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  167 

slave  after  six  years'  service  is  now  extended  to  the 
female  (Deut.  15  12,  17),  and  in  recognition  of  the 
length  of  time  which  he  had  served  for  nought, 
the  Code  exhorts  the  master  when  he  sets  him  free 
to  give  him  a  share  of  the  agricultural  produce 
(flocks,  crops,  and  wine),  adding  as  a  promise  that  it 
is  well  worth  his  while  to  be  generous  (15  is-is).1 
That  the  rite  whereby  the  slave  became  his  master's 
property  perpetually  is  performed  at  the  latter's 
house  and  not  " before  God"  follows  from  the 
Deuteronomic  system  of  centralisation.  In  addition 
to  the  inclusion  of  women  in  the  law  of  release,  it  is 
also  noteworthy  that  the  rights  of  the  foreign  female 
slave  are  not  neglected — the  statute  in  Ex.  21  7-11, 
which  finds  no  place  here,  being  obviously  presup- 
posed.2 A  month  must  elapse  before  the  captive 
may  be  taken  to  wife,  and  if  her  master  afterwards 
has  no  desire  to  retain  her,  she  could  be  set  free  ; 
but  she  was  not  to  be  sold,  nor  could  she  be  dealt 
with  maliciously  or  masterfully  (Deut.  21  10-14).  The 

1  A  modern  Arabian  slave-owner,  if  a  man  of  wealth,  will  after  a 
few  years  give  his  slaves  their  freedom,  and  will  not  send  them  away 
empty,  but  will  give  them  in  marriage  and  endow  them  with  some  of 
his  own  substance  (Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  554 ;  cp.  2  140,  and  Balden- 
sperger,  PEFQ,  1899,  p.  134  *?.)• 

2  No  doubt  the  rights  of  the  Hebrew  concubine  had  now  become 
clearly  established.     Benzinger  (EBi.  col.  4657)  infers  that  by  this 
time  the  custom  according  to  which  the  female  slave  was  her  master's 
concubine  no  longer  prevailed.    This  seems  to  rest  upon  a  misappre- 
hension of  Ex.  21  7-1 1,  and  is  disproved  by  the  regulation  in  the  Law 
of  Holiness  (Lev.  19  20).     The  old  Law  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant 
relating  to  female  slaves  deals  only  with  the  concubine  and  not  with 
every  slave  as  he  supposes. 


1 68  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

mourning  rites  (v.  12)  are  those  of  the  widow,1  and 
the  month  evidently  corresponds  to  the  Arab  'idda, 
the  length  of  time  after  divorce,  or  after  the 
husband's  death,  before  the  widow  was  allowed  to 
marry  again.  Naturally,  for  a  woman  who  was  a 
slave,  and  was  therefore  of  lower  standing,  the 
length  of  time  is  shorter.2  Marriage  by  capture 
had  evidently  become  common.  It  was  especially 
prevalent  in  Arabia,  although  Mohammed  en- 
deavoured to  soften  some  of  the  hardships  of  the 
captured  woman.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  in 
Arabia,  too,  a  woman  who  had  thus  been  taken  by 
her  captor  in  marriage  could  be  neither  sold  nor 
ransomed,  and  her  children,  unlike  those  of  the 
. slave  women,  were  both  free  and  legitimate.3 

Aliens — like  the  Gibeonites,  Josh.  9 — and  male 
Captives  were  probably  enslaved,  although  their 
utter  destruction  was  not  forbidden,  but  even  re- 
quired, by  the  Deuteronomic  law  (Deut.  20  13  sq.),  in 
its  ardent  desire  to  remove  as  far  as  possible  the 
possibility  of  the  introduction  of  heathen  cults  into 
Israel.  According  to  old  Arabian  custom,  captives 
who  did  not  embrace  Islam  or  were  not  redeem< 
were  put  to  death,  and  probably  Israelite  custoi 

1  Robertson  Smith,  Old  Test.  Jew.  Church  f]  p.  368  ;  Kinship  £ 
p.  209  sq.  ;  Wellhausen,  Arab.  Heidentum^]  p.  171. 

2  So,  at  least,  in  Mohammedan  law  i  J  to  2  months  in  the  case  of 
slave,  but  3  months  for  a  free  woman  (Kohler,  Rechtsvergleich. 

p.  63  sq.}.     But  the  length  of  mourning  in  Israel  appears  to 
been  regularly  thirty  days  only  ;  so  even  for  Aaron  and  Moses  (Num. 
20  29,  Deut.  34  8  P). 

3  Kinship^  pp.  89-91  ;  cp.  Kohler,  op.  cit.  p.  15  sq. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  169 

similarly  allowed  captives  to  turn  proselytes.j  In 
default  of  this  they  were  doubtless  sold,  at  all  events 
the  law  was  scarcely  meant  to  be  carried  out 
literally.1  To  kidnap  and  sell  an  Israelite  was  a 
capital  offence  (Ex.  21  16,  Deut.  24  7),  similarly  in 
the  Babylonian  Code  the  man  who  stole  the  son  of 
a  freeman  was  put  to  death  (CH,  §  14). 

The  institution  of  the  monarchy  and  the  rise  of 
a  luxurious  court  brought  in  its  rear  many  calamities 
for  the  people  of  the  land.     Under  ordinary  circum- 
stances, when  all  men  aid  in  the  tilling  of  the  soil,j 
there  is  no  need  for  absolute  poverty ;   the   poor 
man  is  helped  by  his  brethren,  and  the  tribe  inter- 
feres on  his  behalf  against  aggression  from  without. 
The  growth  of  the  commercial  spirit,  the  tendency 
of  land  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  a  few,  and  occasiona 
disasters  such  as  drought  and  famine  effected  serious 
changes.     Not  only  were  parents  reduced  to  such 
straits  as  to  sell  their  children  to  obtain  money,  bu 
the  children  might  even  be  seized  by  the  creditor 
who  was  unable  to  obtain  his  due  (2  Kings  4  i,  Am 
2  e).2     Hunger  compelled  others  to  place  themselves 
under  bondage  in  order  to  obtain  bread  (i  Sam.  2  5) 

1  As  Driver  points  out,  the  law  is  only  to  be  resorted  to  after 
favourable  terms  have  been  offered  and  refused,  and  no  sanction  or 
excuse  is  implied  for  such  atrocities  as  those  alluded  to  in  Am.  1  3, 
13,  Hos.  13  16,  2  Kings  8  12,  or  for  the  torture  of  captives  which  was 
practised  by  the  Assyrians.      In  i  Kings  20  39  sq.  a  captive  is  valued 
at  a  talent  of  silver  ! 

2  So,  in  the  Amarna  Tablets,  55  15  sg.t  6439^^.,  men  give  their 
families  to   Yarimuta  "for  their  sustenance"  (i-na  ba-la-at  napisti- 
su-nu\     Cp.  above,  p.  161. 


i;o  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAR  VH 

(The  Law,  it  is  true,  endeavoured  to  ameliorate  the 
lot  of  such  by  the  regulation  of  a  six  years'  servitude, 
but  it  was  far  from  being  observed  (Jer.  34s  sqq.\ 
and  the  latest  legislation  prolongs  the  period  to  the 
Jubilee  and  requires  them  to  be  treated  not  as  slaves 
but  as  hired  servants  (Lev.  25  39-55).  Only  foreigners 

,fwere  to  be  lifelong  slaves.1 

.x^The  owner  was  required  to  treat  his  slave  with 

;  humanity.     If  the  servant  died  under  his  hand  from 

^ill-usage,  " vengeance  must  certainly  be  taken" 
(Ex,  21  20),  but  the  punishment  is  only  pronounced' 
in  a  half-hearted  manner  when  it  is  contrasted  with 
the  penalty  for  killing  a  freeman  (v.  12,  "he  shall 
surely  be  put  to  death  ").  If  death  does  not  immedi- 
ately ensue  the  owner  is  unpunished  ;  the  slave  is 
bought  with  his  money  (v.  21),  and  it  is  to  his  interest 
not  to  render  his  property  useless.  If  the  slave  is 
maimed  in  consequence  of  his  cruelty  (mention  is 
made  of  the  loss  of  an  eye  or  tooth)  he  is  to  be 
freed  (v.  26  sq.).2 

4  Reserving  these  and  other  cases  of  assault  for  a 
later  chapter,  we  may  next  notice  that  the  general 
rule  that  slaves  were  to  be  treated  humanely  is 

/characteristic   of  the   Deuteronomic  reform.       The 
harder  stress  of  life  had  not  only  made  slavery  more 

1  Later  Jewish  law  laid  it  down  as  a  fundamental  principle  that 
no  Jew  could  be  a  slave ;  even  the  thief  who  was  sold  for  his  crime 
was  not  to  be  regarded  as  a  slave  (Benzinger,  EBi.  "  Slavery,"  §  5). 

2  The   Talmud  enumerates  six  ways  by  which  the  slave  might 
obtain  his  freedom :  redemption,  letters  of  emancipation,  testament 
or    will,  tacit    recognition,  proselytism,  and   marriage    with    a    free 
woman  (for  the  last-mentioned,  see  above,  p.  162,  on  CH,  §  17 5)- 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  171 

prevalent,  but  had  increased  its  hardships.  Runaway 
slaves  were  no  doubt  never  rare  (cp.  i  Sam.  25  10, 
i  Kings  2  39),  and  under  the  old  state  of  affairs  would 
find  protection  in  other  clans  and  tribes.  The  decay/ 
of  the  old  tribal  life  and  the  growth  of  commercial 
and  mercantile  habits  had  altered  this,  and  the  legisf 
lation  finds  it  necessary  to  insist  that  the  fugitive  wa$ 
entitled  to  his  freedom.  He  was  not  to  be  delivered 
over  to  his  master  (adomm),  but  might  dwell  where 
he  liked  without  fear  of  oppression  (Deut.  23  16  sq.).1 
The  disabilities  under  which  the  slave  suffered 
were  compensated  to  some  degree  by  the  fact  that 
he  had  a  guardian.  In  this  respect  he  was  in  a 
better  position  than  the  hireling  (saklr),  on  whose 
behalf  the  law  only  intervenes  in  order  to  ensure 
that  he  was  paid  promptly  and  in  full  (Deut.  24  14  sq., 
Lev.  19  13,  etc. ;  cp.  Jer.  22  13,  Mai.  3  s).2  The  free 
labourer  was  answerable  to  no  one,  and  in  return 
there  was  no  one  to  protect  his  interests.  In  primi- 
tive organisations  where  land  is  common  property 
and  all  share  in  the  produce,  each  man  labours  for 
his  neighbour  and  receives  only  his  food.  Such 
was,  and  still  is,  the  custom  in  Palestine,3  but  from 
the  causes  already  indicated,  it  can  scarcely  have 

1  Under  the  tribal  constitution  the  refugee  could  count  upon  re- 
ceiving protection  from  the  tribe  to  whose  tents  he  had  fled.      In  the 
society  reflected  in  CH,  §§15  sgg.,  the  slave's  position  had  evidently 
become  considerably  worse  than  in  Israel  in  the  seventh  century. 

2  The  prompt  payment  of  the  labourer  is  insisted  upon  in  the  so- 
called  "  Sumerian  farming-laws,"  see  p.  1 90,  below. 

3  Cp.  Talm.  Baba  Mesia^  5  8  (n),  and  for  modern  times,  Doughty, 
Ar.  Des.  2  n6. 


172  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

been  very  prevalent  in  Israel  after  the  monarchy 
had  been  established.  It  is  not  until  the  time  of 
Deuteronomy  that  the  law  above  referred  to  makes 
its  first  appearance,  and  the  biblical  references  to 
labourers  are  neither  extensive,  nor  of  a  kind  that 
require  lengthy  consideration  in  the  light  of  the 
Code  of  Hammurabi.1 

The  laws  in  the  Code  concern  themselves  with 
the  wages  and  responsibilities  of  labourers  ;  nothing 
is  said  of  their  rights,  although  there  are  indications 
from  other  sources  that  they  were  not  to  be  treated 
oppressively  as  slaves  or  captives.  In  one  of  his 
letters  Hammurabi  deals  with  a  case  where  certain 
workmen  have  been  negligent,  and  orders  that  they 
are  not  to  be  put  to  forced  labour.2  Labourers  were 
to  be  fed  and  clothed,  and  stood  under  the  protection 
of  a  patronus ;  more  important  still,  they  were  not 
mere  objects  like  the  slave,  but  were  designated 
with  the  determinative  amilu,  "man."1 

The  Code  enacts  that  the  hireling  (amil  agruti] 
is  not  to  be  paid  at  the  same  rate  throughout  the 
year.  From  the  beginning  of  the  year  (April)  to 
the  fifth  month,  when  the  days  are  longer  and  the 
harvest  is  on,  he  receives  six  SE  of  silver  a  day, 
whilst  for  the  rest  of  the  year  the  payment  is  five 
$E  (§  273).*  The  wages  of  the  artisan  (mar  um-mi-a) 

1  Reference  may  be  made   to  the  material  collected  by  W.  H. 
Bennett,  Expository  Times,  May  1902,  p.  381  sq. 

2  King,  Letters,  no.  xxxix.  (p.  85). 

3  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  n. 

4  1 80  SE  made  one  shekel. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  173 

vary ;  the  brick-maker  (GAB- A)  and  the  tailor  (amil 
KID]  receive  five  SE  of  silver  a  day,  whilst  the 
carpenter  (nangar)  takes  four  (§  274).  Owing  to 
the  mutilation  of  a  portion  of  the  stele,  the  hire  of 
the  stone-cutter  (??)  and  the  builder  (amil  banii)  is 
missing,  as  is  also  the  class  of  the  artisan  at  the 
head  of  the  list.  Two  kinds  of  farm -labourers 
receive  respectively  eight  and  six  GUR  of  corn  a 
year,  and  the  fact  that  the  payment  is  annual  makes 
it  difficult  to  suppose  that  they  can  be  engaged  for 
such  temporary  work  as  threshing  or  harvesting 
(§  257  •sy-)-1  The  herdsman  (na-kid)*  for  the  cattle 
and  sheep  receives  eight  GUR  of  corn  a  year  (§  261). 

Among  the  scanty  details  in  the  Old  Testament 
we  read  of  ten  shekels  a  year  for  the  young  Levite 
(Judg.  17  10),  a  drachma  a  day  for  the  angel  Raphael 
(Tob.  5  14),  and  a  denarius  a  day  for  the  labourers 
in  the  vineyard  (Matt.  20  i  sq.).  Labourers  were 
usually  paid  by  the  day — whence  the  Deuteronomic 
injunction  (above) — in  later  times,  at  least,  by  the 
year  (Lev.  2553).  In  the  latter  case  some  kind  of 
agreement  was  doubtless  required  (cp.  Job  41  4), 
though  whether  it  was  in  writing,  as  was  the  usual 
custom  in  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  may  be  doubted. 

The  laws  in  the  Code  relating  to  the  responsi- 

1  AK-SU  (harvester,  Scheil,  Johns) ;  SAB-GUD  (thrasher,  Scheil ; 
ox-driver,  Johns  and  Winckler).     When  the  labourer  is  hired  by 
contract  for  a  specified  length  of  time,  an  instalment  is  sometimes 
paid  down  at  once  (Kohler  and  Peiser,  Bab.  Rechtsleben,  2  52  sq.}. 

2  Heb.  noked,  sheep-raiser  or  dealer  (cp.  Arab,  nakad,  a  kind  of 
sheep  with  very  woolly  fleece). 


174  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

bilities  of  labourers  are  not  quite  clear.  If  a  labourer 
has  been  hired  to  look  after  a  field,  and  tools  (?) l 
and  oxen  have  been  entrusted  to  him,  and  he  has 
stolen  grain  or  plants,  and  they  are  found  in  his 
hands,  his  hands  are  cut  off  (§253).  If  he  takes 
the  tools  (?)  or  wears  out  the  oxen,  he  must  restore 
the  corn  which  he  has  received  to  sow  (?  §  254),2 
If  he  lets  out  the  oxen  on  hire  or  steals  the  grain 
and  has  not  caused  the  field  to  bring  forth  produce, 
he  is  put  to  account  and  must  pay  60  GUR  of  corn 
per  CAN  (§255).  If  his  prefect  (bi-ka-zu)  is  unable 
to  make  restitution,  he  is  left  on  the  field  among 
the  cattle  (§  256).  The  last  law  is  particularly 
obscure,  and  Johns  translates,  "  if  his  compensation 
he  is  not  able  to  pay,  one  shall  remove  the  oxen 
from  that  field."  According  to  Johns,  therefore,  the 
hireling  suffers  no  penalty  and  the  cattle  are  simply 
taken  away  from  his  care.  The  law  as  otherwise 
rendered  by  Scheil  and  Winckler  expels  the  man 
from  the  village  and  presupposes  that  the  responsi- 
bility for  the  labourer  is  undertaken  either  by  a 
superior  official  (Scheil)3  or  by  the  community  or 
clan  (Winckler). 

1  al-da-a-am,  seed  ?  (Winckler). 

2  ta  a-na  seH  sa  im-ri-ru  i-ri-ab,  "  from  the  seed  which  he  has 
hoed  he  shall  restore  "  (Johns). 

3  Cp.  KB  4  49  (no.  iii.),  where  a  man  hires  himself  out  for  a 
month  and  gives  the  name  of  his  guarantor  (ga-ag-ga-di-su,  lit.  his 
head).     The  phrase  sum-ma  bi-ha-zu  a-pa-lam  la  i-li-i  must  be  con- 
sidered along  with  sum-ma  stfam  ri-a-ba-am  la  i-li-i^  §  54,  and  sum- 
ma  sar-ra-ga-nu-um  sa  na-da-nim  la  t-su,  §  8,  where  it  is  certainly  a 
question  of  compensation  ;  apalu>  "to  answer  for,"  as  in  §§  152,  206. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  175  ' 

The  responsibilities  of  the  herdsman  (riu)  are; 
laid  down  at  greater  length.     if  lie  loses  an  ox  or  • 
sheep  he  must  restore  to  the  owner  ox  for  ox,  sheep; 
for  sheep  (§  263).1     He  is  bound  by  a  contract  to 
produce  a  specified  number  of  young  ones,  and  if  he 
has  received  his  wage,  whatever  was  arranged,  and 
was  contented  therewith,  and  has  diminished  the 
number  of  the  oxen  and  sheep,  and  decreased  the 
offspring  (ta-li-id-tum),  he  must  hand  over  offspring 
and  produce  (bi-il-tum)  according  to  the  contract 
(§  264).       Dishonest   dealing,   such   as  selling   thej 
cattle   or  making   false   returns,   is  punished  by  a| 
tenfold  restitution  of  what  he  has  stolen  (§  265).     If 
in  the  sheepfold  (tarbasii)*  a  disaster3  occurs,  or  a 
lion  kills  one  of  the  herd,  the  herdsman  may  clear 
himself  (u-ub-ba-am-ma)  "  before  God,"  and    the 
owner  of  the  sheepfold  must  face  the  misfortune  of 
the  sheepfold  (mi-ki-it-ti  tarbasi  ;  §  266).4     On  the 
other  hand,  if  the  shepherd  has  been  at  fault,  he 
must  make  good  the  loss  and  restore  (u-sa- lam-ma] 
oxen  and  sheep  to  the  owner  (§  267).      The  im- 
portance attached    to   cattle- raising   appears,   also, 

1  Of  the  preceding  law  (§  262)  only  two  out  of  nine  lines  have 
survived :  "  If  a  man,  an  ox  or  a  sheep  to  .  .  ."     Jeremias  (Moses 
und  Hamm.  p.  33)  has  conjectured  that  it  dealt  with  the  theft  of 
cattle ;  but  this  is  dealt  with  in  §  265,  above. 

2  Heb.  rtbes  (EBi.  col.  713). 

3  li-bi-it  ili,  lit.  a  stroke  of  God. 

4  The  law  recurs  in  later  times  in  Sm.  26,  with  z-/z  instead  of  Hi 
(see  Delitzsch,  Beit.  2.  Assyr.  4  84).     The  same  rule  holds  good  in 
the  case  of  the  hired  animal  (CH,  §§  244,  249).     Note  that  the  two 
latter  laws  have  here  been  combined  to  form  one. 


176  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

in  the  letters  of  Hammurabi,  where  we  find  the  king 
sending  instructions  to  his  officials  to  inspect  the 
royal  herds  of  cattle  and  sheep,  or  to  see  that  they 
are  properly  tended  and  that  their  number  is  not 
diminished,  whilst,  on  another  occasion,  he  forwards 
a  list  of  names  of  shepherds  who  are  to  be  brought 
into  his  presence  in  order  that  they  may  render 
their  accounts.1 

,  The  Israelite  laws  relating  to  the  shepherd  are 
pot  unlike  those  in  Babylonia.  He  is  paid  in  coin 
or  in  kind  (Zech.  11  13,  i  Cor.  9  7),  and  the  story  of 
Jacob  and  Laban  (Gen.  30  31  sqq.,  31  7  sq.,  38  sq.) 
probably  presents  no  overdrawn  picture  of  ancient 
custom.  The  shepherd  is  asked  what  he  requires,2 
and  in  the  episode  in  question  the  herd -owner 
frequently  changes  the  arrangements  in  order  that 
his  shepherd's  share  of  the  flocks  may  not  increase. 
According  to  the  law  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant, 
if  a  man  has  taken  an  ass,  ox,  sheep,  or  any  beast, 
to  guard  or  herd  (samar,  cp.  Hos.  12  12),  and  it  dies, 
is  injured,  or  is  carried  off,3  and  there  are  no 

1  King,  Letters,  vol.  3,  nos.  xxx.,  xxxv.,  and  xxxi.     As  among  th< 
more  pastoral  Hebrews  and  Arabs,  sheep-shearing  appears  to  have 
been  a  function  of  some  importance  at  which  the  governors  of 
other  cities  were  present.      It  took  place  in  the  House  of  the  Ft 
of  the  New  Year,  but  at  various  dates  :  Adar  or  Sebat  (King,  pp.  7. 
162  sq. ;  cp.  Rel.  Sem.(2)  p.  254). 

2  Cp.   Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  2  242,  where  a  young  lad  requires  th< 
usual  wages,  "four  she-goats  at  the  year's  end  and  a  cloak  and 
tunic,"  besides  a  fill  of  milk ;  in  a  few  years'  time  the  young  hei 
man  would  thus  possess  a  small  flock  of  his  own. 

3  Holzinger  rightly  observes  that  "  carried  off"  (nisbaK)  can  refe 
only  to  whole  herds,  and  suspects  that  it  is  a  gloss.      If  not  a  corruj 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  177 

witnesses  to  support  his  statement,  he  must  swear 
the  "  oath  of  Yah  we  "  that  he  has  not  put  his  hand 
to  the  goods  of  the  owner  (be'alTm)  and  his  word 
is  accepted,  no  restitution  is  made  (Id  yesallem  ; 
Ex.  22  10  sq.).  Secondly,  if  anything  is  stolen  from 
the  shepherd  he  must  make  restitution  (v.  12) — pre- 
sumably, ox  for  ox,  sheep  for  sheep.  It  is  a  case  of 
presumed  negligence  as  in  CH,  §  267.  Finally,  if  a 
wild  beast  has  destroyed  a  beast  the  herdsman  must 
bring  the  mangled  remains  as  evidence,  in  which 
case  no  restitution  is  required  (v.  is).1  The  last 
case  was  probably  a  frequent  one  (i  Sam.  17  34  sq., 
Is.  31  4,  cp.  John  10  12),  and  it  was  exceptionally 
unfair  for  an  owner  to  require  his  herdsmen  to  make 
good  the  ravages  of  wild  beasts  (Gen.  31 39).  There 
is  nothing  to  show  that  the  Israelite  shepherd  was 
under  an  obligation  to  increase  the  owner's  flocks  to 
a  specified  extent,  whilst,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is 
remarkable  that  in  CH,  §  266,  nothing  is  said  of  the 
evidence  which  the  shepherd,  according  to  Hebrew 
law,  is  required  to  produce.  The  solemn  assevera- 
tion appears  in  both,  but  whereas  the  Code  applies 
it  to  the  case  where  a  disaster  or  a  lion  has  caused 
the  loss,  ravage  by  animals  receives  separate  treat- 
ment in  Ex.  22  13,  and  the  oath  of  Yahwe  is  used  in 
general  cases  where  neither  witness  nor  evidence 

repetition  of  nisbar  it  is  probably  inserted  to  cover  such  cases  as  the 
robbing  expeditions  mentioned  in  Job  1  14  sq.y  17. 

1  The  Septuagint  has  "he  shall  bring  him  (the  owner)  unto  (W) 
that  which  was  torn"  ;  but  cp.  Am.  3  12,  Gen.  31  39.  According  to 
a  third  interpretation,  the  shepherd  was  required  to  bring  "  witnesses 
feel)  of  the  tearing"  ;  so  in  later  times  (Jewish  Encyclopedia,  2  4580). 

12 


178  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vn 

were  available.1  Apart  from  the  fuller  treatment  in 
Ex.  22  10-13  compared  with  §  266  sq.  the  underlying 
principles  are  the  same,  and  considering  that  cattle- 
tending  was  so  universal  among  the  Semites  the  close 
relationship  is  perhaps  not  remarkable.  Aramaean 
Bedouin,  according  to  Sayce,2  tended  the  flocks  of 
the  Babylonians,  and  their  customary  usages  were 
doubtless  identical  with  those  of  the  rest  of  the 
Semites.  In  modern  times,  the  herdsman  is 

held  responsible  for  what  is  stolen,3  and  the  Mishnic 
law  required  the  shepherd  to  protect  his  flock  from 
tfhe  wolf,  and  acquitted  him  for  accidental  loss. 
Certain  qualifications  were  made,  however,  in  order 
to  cover  all  probable  contingencies.  Loss  by  the 
attacks  of  brigands,  or  of  dangerous  animals  (lion, 
bear,  tiger,  panther,  or  serpent),  was  deemed  un- 
avoidable unless  the  shepherd  had  negligently  led 
the  flock  into  dangerous  or  risky  places.  Natural 
death  was  of  course  unavoidable,  but  if  the  shepherd 
had  injured  it,  he  was  not  held  free.4  Laws  of  this 
nature  must  necessarily  grow  up  in  pastoral  com- 
[  munities  where  flocks  are  tended  by  paid  labourers, ' 

1  See  above,  p.  175,  n.  4.     On  the  analogy  of  §§  244,  249,  ravage 
by  wild  animals  was  the  owner's  loss,  and  the  oath  was  only  employed 
in  doubtful  cases  ("stroke  of  God;j) ;  in  either  case  the  laws  do  not 
agree  absolutely  with  the  Book  of  the  Covenant. 

2  Op.  at.  pp.  82,  86. 

3  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  345.      Where  a  tribe  send  their  flocks  out 
to  pasture  under  the  care  of  a  tribesman  (who  is  not  a  hireling)  all 
losses  are  shared  (/<$.). 

*  Babel  Mesia.  7  7.     Cp.  CH,  §§  244-249,  injuries  to  hired  beasts  ; 
p.  222  sq.  below. 


CHAP,  vii  SLAVES  AND  LABOURERS  179 

and  from  the  exigencies  of  the  case  there  may  be  a 
certain  amount  of  resemblance  between  them  which 
is  not  in  any  way  due  to  borrowing.  So,  when 

we  turn  to  India,  it  is  interesting  to  find  that  the 
Laws  of  Manu  hold  the  herdsman  responsible  for 
loss  by  day  but  not  by  night,  provided  they  are  in 
the  owner's  house  (8  230).  If  the  cattle  suffer  injury, 
and  if  he  had  not  tried  to  prevent  it,  he  must  make 
it  good  (ib.  232).  If  stolen  by  thieves,  he  must  raise 
the  alarm  at  once  and  inform  his  master.  Wolves 
must  be  warded  off,  and  if  any  of  the  flock  die  he 
must  bring  their  ears,  skin,  etc.,  as  proof  (ib. 
233-236). l 

1  On  the  laws  relating  to  shepherds  who  allowed  their  flocks  to 
damage  the  crops,  see  below  p.  200  sq. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

LAND   AND   AGRICULTURE 

Common  lands  among  the  Semites — Rise  of  individual  property — 
Lands  on  fief — Holders  of  crown-lands,  their  rights  and  duties 
— Old  agricultural  precepts  in  Babylonia — Laws  for  farmers  and 
gardeners — Land  on  metayer — Israelite  laws  and  usages — Irri- 
gation— Miscellaneous  Babylonian  laws — Damage  to  crops  by 
animals  or  fire. 

AMONG  primitive  peoples  property  in  land  is  practi- 
cally  unknown.       Each    tribe  has   a   district   over 
which  length  of  custom  has  allowed  it  to  wander 
freely  and  all  its  members  share  in  the  possession. 
"  Property  in  water,"  Robertson  Smith  points  out, 
"  is  older  and  more  important  than  property  in  land," 
and  the  digging  of  a  well,  without  which  the  flocks 
could  not  be  pastured,   brings  with   it  a  right  of 
possession.      In  settled  communities,  likewise,  land 
I  is  primarily  the  common  property  of  the  village  or 
1  township,  and  individual  rights  are  only  acquired  by 
.  personal  labour,  such  as  the  building  of  a  house  or 
(jthe  cultivation  of  land.1     Right  of  custom  applies  to 

1  Rel.  Sem.(2}  pp.  95  sg.,  104  sq.,  144.  Cp.  Kohler,  Rechtsvergl. 
Stud.  p.  75  ;  E.  Mercier  in  Journal  Asiatique,  9th  ser.,  4  74  sq. 
(1894);  Jewish  Encyclopedia,  1 395^.  For  modern  Palestine,  cp.  Klein, 

180 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  181 

agricultural  as  well  as  to  pastoral  people,  and  the 
undisturbed  possession  of  a  piece  of  land  gives  the 
occupier  a  prior  claim. 

Among  village  communities,  side  by  side  with 
the  possession  of  individual  property  there  is 
frequently  to  be  found  the  practice  of  holding 
common  lands,  which  are  parcelled  out  periodically 
into  a  specified  number  of  portions,  and  divided  by 
lot  among  those  families  or  individuals  of  the  village 
who  are  capable  of  farming  it.  In  spite  of  all  the 
attempts  of  the  Turkish  Government  to  repress  it, 
the  same  custom  still  prevails  in  Palestine  at  the 
present  day,  and  there  are  sufficient  indications  in 
the  Old  Testament  to  make  it  extremely  probable 
that  it  held  good  among  the  Israelites,1  who  no 
doubt  adopted  it  from  the  older  Canaanite  inhabi- 
tants of  the  land.  Nor  need  we  suppose  that  the 
Israelites  were  the  only  representatives  of  the 
Semites  who  had  their  village  communities.2 

ZDP  V,  4  72.  The  right  of  the  first  clearing  has  been  very  generally 
recognised  (cp.  Laws  of  Manu,  9  44,  and  Letourneau,  Property  :  its 
origin  and  development,  passim). 

1  F.  A.   Klein,  ZDPV,    475  sqq.\    J.   Neil,    Transactions  of  the 
Victoria  Institute,  24  154^.  (1890-91)  ;  id.,  Pictured  Palestine,^  pp. 
252  sqq.  (London,    1893);  Bergheim,  PEFQ,  1894,  pp.  191  sqq. ; 
Fenton,    Early   Hebrew   Life    (London,    1880);     Buhl,    American 
Journal  of  Theology,  1  731  sqq.  (1897)  ;  id.,  Socialen  Verhdltnisse  der 
Israeliten,  pp.  56  sqq.  (Berlin,  1899);  Driver  and  White,  Leviticus, 
pp.  98,  100  ;  Bertholet,  on  Lev.  25. 

2  The  Arabs  were  pre-eminently  agriculturists,  although  among 
the  nomads  of  historical  times  agriculture  was  not  practised,  and  was 
deemed  to  be  unworthy  of  a  man's  attention  (cp.  Fraenkel,  Aramai- 
schen    Fremdworter   im    Arabischen,   p.    125    sq.  ;     Leiden,    1886). 


i82  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

The  growth  of  central  bodies  of  authority  and 

Ithe  institution  of  a  monarchy  are  detrimental  to  the 
older  land  systems.  Mohammedan  law,  for  example, 
allows  unclaimed  land  to  be  appropriated  for  pur- 
poses of  cultivation,  but  only  with  the  consent  of  the 
governors  or  chiefs,  and  if  it  has  not  been  brought 
into  a  satisfactory  state  by  the  end  of  three  years  it 
is  taken  away  and  given  to  another.  In  course  of 
time,  as  agriculture  advances  and  the  population 
t  becomes  more  numerous,  the  land  tends  to  become 
the  private  property  of  individuals,  or  is  added  to 
the  estates  of  the  sovereign,  to  be  handed  over  to 
the  care  of  his  officers,  and  the  common  lands  are 
thus  curtailed  and  are  to  be  found  almost  exclusively 
in  those  districts  which  are  removed  from  the  larger 
towns  or  villages.  In  Israel  it  was  one  of  the  dis- 
advantages of  the  monarchy  that  the  king  seized  the 
lands  which  his  subjects  held  and  gave  them  to  his 
nobles  (i  Sam.  8  14),  and  the  story  of  Naboth,  which 
long  rankled  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  was  no 
doubt  only  one  of  many  acts  of  injustice.  The 
spread  of  commerce  destroyed  the  old  simple  agri- 
cultural life,  and  the  rapaciousness  of  those  who 
added  field  to  field  must  have  led  to  the  disappear- 
ance of  many  of  the  smaller  land-owners  and  to  the 
gradual  confiscation  of  the  common  lands. 

Land  in  Babylonia  had  long  been  either  private 
property  or  under  the  control  of  superior  authorities. 

Even  at  the  present  day  the  true  nomad  Arabian,  if  he  practises 
agriculture  at  all,  leaves  everything  to  chance  (cp.  Palmer,  Desert  of 
the  Exodus -,  2  296  sq.  \  1871). 


CHAP,  viii  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  183 

There  were  land  surveys,  and  the  landed  estates  of 
the  inhabitants  of  villages  were  set  down  in  registers 
which  were  kept  at  the  palace  or  at  one  or  other  of 
the  temples  for  inspection  in  case  of  dispute.1  In 
one  of  Hammurabi's  letters  the  king  orders  land  to 
be  restored  to  its  owner  and  remarks  that  "  the 
ownership  of  the  land  ...  is  ancient,  for  on  a  tablet 
it  is  assigned  to  him."2  The  extent  of  individual 
holdings  is  set  forth  in  great  detail  in  the  contracts, 
the  boundaries  are  defined  by  the  owners  of  the 
adjacent  properties,3  and  there  are  imprecations 
against  the  man  who  removes  the  stone  (abnu)  or 
landmark  (kudur\r~\u)  upon  which  are  inscribed  the 
boundaries  and  extent.  The  landmarks  are  under 
the  patronage  of  the  God  Ninib.4  Individual  ' 
property,  as  we  have  seen,  was  jealously  kept  in  the 
family  as  far  as  possible,  and  from  the  names  of  I 
witnesses  in  the  contracts  it  would  appear  that  land/ 

1  Some  of  the  Bab.  terms  for  the  different  kinds  of  land  are  cited 
by  Peiser  (Skizze  d.  babylon.  Gesell.,  p.  21  sq.\     Several  of  the  later 
Talmudic  and  Targumic  designations  are  of  Babylonian  origin  (cp. 
Jensen,  Zeit.  f.  Assyr.  6175;   Meissner,  Beitr.,  p.    143).     For  the 
Jewish  terms  in  general,  see  Vogelstein,  Landwirtschaft  in  Paldstina 
zur  Zeit  der  Misnah,  1  (1894) ;  Jewish  Encyclopedia,  1  267^. 

2  King,  Letters )  3  no.  xi.  ;   cp.  p.  25. 

3  Contrast  the  Palestinian  practice  of  giving  fancy  names  to  the 
plots  of  land,  e.g.  the  fuller's  or  potter's  field  of  olden  times,  or  the 
field  of  the  partridge,  the  mound,   or   the  road,  of  to-day    (Neil, 
Bergheim,  //.  cit.\      In   late  Jewish  contracts,  on  the  other  hand, 
landed  property  is  defined  by  the  boundaries  on  the  east,  south,  west, 
and  north  (Nathan,  Orient.  Litteratur-zeitung^  1903,  col.  183  ;  Pick, 
Assy  rise hes  und  Talmudisches,  p.  28). 

4  bll  ku-dur-ri-i-ti  {KB  4  73,  1.  1 9). 


1 84  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

could  not  be  alienated  without  the  sanction  of  the 

/  various  members. 

It  is  probable  that  in  Babylonia,  too,  land  had 

/once  been  held  in  common.  Boscawen  finds  refer- 
ences not  only  to  a  periodical  distribution  of  land  by 
a  council,  but  even  distinct  traces  of  village  com- 
munities.1 In  an  old  contract- tablet  referred  to  by 
Meissner2  it  appears  that  a  man  who  had  built  a 
house  at  his  own  expense  upon  another  man's  field 
was  entitled  to  live  in  it,  or  to  let  it,  for  a  specified 
period  (?  ten  years),  and  it  seems  extremely  probable 
that  this  is  a  survival  of  the  time  when  the  man  who 
built  a  house  gained  a  right  to  the  land  upon  which 
it  stood.  Other  lands  which  had  probably  once 
been  common  were  the  property  of  the  king  and 
were  entrusted  by  him  to  his  officials,  in  return  for 
which  they  were  expected  to  cultivate  it  and  to 
perform  personal  services.  These  are  the  ganger 
(rid  sale)  and  the  constable  (bctiru)?  and  the  small 
series  of  laws  devoted  to  their  duties  and  privileges 
next  claims  our  consideration. 

If  one  of  these  officials  has  been  sent  upon  a 
royal  errand  (har-ra-an  sar-ri-im)  and  hires  a  hire- 

1  Transactions  of  the  Victoria  Institute,  24  184  sg. 

2  Op.  cit.,  p.  12  (quoting  Strassmaier,  Warka  no.  103). 

3  In  the  letters  of  Hammurabi  the   rid  sabe  appears  to  be  an 
overseer  or  captain  of  troops,  perhaps  the  former,  who  would  seem  to 
have  held  a  position  similar  to  Solomon's  officers  "  over  the  people  " 
(rodim  baam,  I  Kings  5  16  [30],  9  23  ;  see  King,  Letters,  3  100  n.  I  ; 
Delitzsch,  Beit.  2.  Assyr.,  4  85  ;  and  Johns,  Amer.  Journ.  Sem.  Lang., 
1903,  p.    171  sq.,  who  regards   the   bdiru  as  a  kind  of  pressgang 
officer). 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  185 

ling  (amil  agurri  i-gur-ma)  in  his  stead,  he  is  put  to 
death  (id-da-aK]  and  his  substitute  takes  his  house 
(§  26).  The  same  penalty  is  inflicted  upon  the 
"  governor  "  or  "  magistrate  "J  who  sends  substitutes 
on  a  royal  errand  (§  33).  If  he  had  been  captured 
and  was  ransomed  by  a  merchant  (dam-gar],  and 
was  unable  to  pay  back  the  amount  of  the  ransom, 
it  must  be  paid  from  the  funds  of  the  temple  of  his 
city  (bit  ili  ali-su\  and,  failing  this,  from  the  palace 
(e-kal),  "his  field,  garden  and  house  cannot  be 
given  for  his  freedom  "  (ip-te-ri-su ;  CH,  §  32).2  The 
"  governor  "  or  "  magistrate  "  who  robs  him,  plunders 
him  of  any  gift  (ki-is-ti),  lets  him  out  on  hire  like  a 
slave,  or  unjustly  brings  him  to  judgment,  is  put  to 
death  (§  34).  Thus  are  the  privileges  of  these 
officials  secured.  The  estate  cannot  be  alien- 

ated.    No  constable,  ganger,  or  tax-collector  (na-si 
bi-il'timf  may  sell  his  estate  for  money  (§  36),  and 

1  PA-PA  and  NU-TUR;  the  meanings  are  not  certain  (see  Johns, 
Amer.  Journ.    Sem.   Lang.,    1903,    p.    171    sq.}.       In    Letter    Iv. 
Hammurabi  issues  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  eight  officers  who  had 
not  gone  to  their  posts  (King,  op.  dt.  pp.  1 14-6,  cp.  Letter  liv.  p.  1 12 
sq.}.     From  Letter  xv.  (p.  36  sq.}  it  would  appear  that  some  of  these 
officials  were  protected  to  such  an  extent  that  they  were  freed  from 
the  unpleasant  necessity  of  appearing  in  courts  of  law  as  defendants 
in  lawsuits  arising  out  of  debts. 

2  So  Winckler.     Johns  understands  the  law  quite  differently  :  "  if 
a  ganger  or  constable  is  diverted  on  an  errand  of  the  king's  "  (sa  i-na 
har-ra-an  sar-ri-im  tu-ur-ru\  i.e.   is  named  for  foreign   or  garrison 
duty,  a  merchant  might  buy  him  out ;  if  he  had  the  means  to  pay  the 
merchant  for  this  good  office  he  must  do  so ;  but  his  benefice  must 
not  be  used  to  raise  money  for  the  purpose  (Amer.  Journ.  Sem.  Lang., 
1903,  p.  172). 

3  Or  "  tributary,"  Johns,  Winckler. 


J  86  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vin 

if  any  one  buys  it,  the  money  is  forfeited,  the  estate 
returned  to  its  owner  (belu\  and  the  tablet  recording 
the  sale  is  broken  (§  37).  Similarly,  the  royal  flocks 
which  are  in  the  care  of  the  ganger  must  not  be  sold, 
and  whoever  buys  cattle  or  sheep  from  him  forfeits 
his  money  (§  35). 

The  estate  cannot  be  written  off  to  the  holder's 
wife  or  daughter,  nor  can  he  pledge  it  for  a  debt 
(§  38) ;  but  property  which  he  has  bought  or  other- 
wise obtained  he  can  of  course  dispose  of  as  he 
likes :  it  may  be  bequeathed  to  wife  or  daughter  or 
given  for  a  debt  (§  39).  On  the  other  hand,  the 
holder  is  allowed  to  give  his  estate  for  money  to 
another  official,  and  the  buyer  has  full  use  (i-li-ik)  of 
it  (§  4O).1  The  field  and  garden  of  the  ganger  or 
constable  may  be  entrusted  to  another  during  his 
absence,  and  on  his  return  it  is  restored  to  him  (§ 
27).  It  may  be  thus  taken  over  temporarily  by  his 
son  (§  28),  and  if  the  son  is  too  young,  one-third 
of  it  may  be  given  to  his  mother  to  bring  him  up 
(§  29).2  The  estate  must  be  kept  in  cultivation, 
and  if  the  holder  has  allowed  it  to  go  to  waste  (ud- 
da-ab-bi-ir)  and  is  absent  for  three  years,  the  man 
who  has  had  charge  retains  it,  whilst  if  the  original 
holder  has  been  absent  for  one  year  only,  it  is 

1  The  officials  in  question  are  royal  merchants  and  others  who 
hold  benefices  under  the  state  (Winckler,  ad  loc.). 

2  This  would  be  duly  specified  by  a  contract,  as  in  the  deed  of 
the  second  year  of  Nergal-sarezer,  where  a  man's  wife  is  taken  into 
partnership  by  her  husband  for  as  long  a  time  as  his  brother  is  away 
on  his  travels  (Sayce,  op.  cit.t  p.  130). 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  187 

restored  to  him  on  his  return  (§  30  sq.).  Evidently 
the  right  to  hold  the  land  depends  upon  the  man's 
ability  to  reclaim  it,  and  the  law  finds  an  analogy  in 
the  Mohammedan  custom  already  referred  to,  where- 
by waste  land  which  has  been  taken  and  remains 
uncultivated  for  three  years  is  seized  by  the 
authorities  and  given  to  another.1  Finally,  if  the 
estate  has  been  alienated  in  the  absence  of  the 
ganger,  constable,  or  tributary,  it  is  restored  to  him 
on  his  return  (CH,  §  41).  The  true  meaning  of 
this  law  is  rather  obscure.  According  to  Johns 
(Amer.  Journ.  Sem.  Lang.,  1903,  p.  173  sq.\  it  is 
bartered  (u-bi-iK)  and  exchanges  (ni-ip-la-tim)  have 
been  given,  and  the  latter  become  the  official's 
property  along  with  the  estate  (cp.  §  37,  where  the 
buyer  forfeits  his  money) ;  Scheil  and  Winckler,  on 
the  other  hand,  understand  the  estate  to  have  been 
fenced  in,  for  which  injury  the  holder  is  entitled  to 
receive  compensation. 

In    Israel   there    were   doubtless   highly -placed 
officials  who  held  lands  under  the  state,2  and  the 

1  Kohler,  Rechtsvergleich.  Stud.,  p.  75  (citing  Hidaya,  p.  610  sq. ; 
transl.  Hamilton,  second  ed.  by  Grady,  1870).   Similarly  in  old  Mexico, 
where  every  member  of  the  community  had  a  right  to  the  usufruct 
of  the   common  lands  in  proportion  to  his  status,  the  holder  who 
neglected  his  allotment  for  two  years  running  was  admonished,  and 
if  in  the  third  year  he  had  not  improved  the  soil,  his  lot  was  taken 
from  him  and  handed  over  to  another  tenant  (Letourneau,  Property -, 
P-  131)- 

2  Cp.  i  Sam.  8  14.     After  the  capture  of  Jerusalem  David  appears 
to  have  given  estates  in  the  neighbourhood  to  members  of  his  family 
and    court  (2  Sam.  13  23,  Absalom  at   Baal-Hazor;   14  30,  Joab ; 
i  Kings  2  26,  Abiathar  at  Anathoth). 


1 88  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

Chronicler  even  ascribes  to  David  a  system  of 
administration  under  which  the  royal  fields  and 
flocks  were  tended  by  appointed  officers  (i  Chron. 
27  25-31),  but  analogies  for  laws  similar  to  the  above 
in  the  Code  are  looked  for  in  vain.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  disinclination  to  alienate  landed  property 
was  exceptionally  strong  in  Israel,  and  custom  had 
given  the  near  kinsman  a  clear  right  of  pre-emption 
and  also  of  buying  back  (Jer.  32,  Lev.  25).1  The 
land  was  a  sacred  possession ;  it  was  Yahwe's,  and 
as  such  was  to  be  held  only  by  his  people.  In 
Ezekiel's  sketch  of  the  restoration,  crown -lands 
presented  by  the  "  prince  "  to  any  of  his  officials 
revert  to  the  crown  in  the  year  of  liberty ;  only 
gifts  may  be  held  and  inherited  to  perpetuity  (Ezek. 
46  16-18 ;  cp.  CH,  §  38  sq.). 

In  Babylonia,  perhaps  the  most  prolific  of  Semitic 
lands,  agriculture  flourished  from  the  earliest  times, 
and  every  care  was  taken  to  ensure  that  the  ground 
should  yield  the  richest  harvests.  Some  valuable 
particulars  regarding  the  details  of  cultivation  in 
ancient  Babylonia  are  preserved  upon  an  old  muti- 
lated tablet  and  throw  interesting  light  upon  early 
prevailing  conditions,2  and  the  kind  of  literature 
already  in  existence  at  the  time  of  the  Code  of 
Hammurabi.  From  it  we  learn  that  the  legal 

1  Cp.    Benzinger,   EBi.,    "Law  and    Justice,"  §    15.      Doughty 
(speaking  of  the  Bedouin  of  Kheybar,  Ar.  Des.  2  116)  remarks  that 
when  a  man  has  to  sell  his  inheritance  for  any  immediate  purpose, 
it  is  bought  by  his  tribesmen  and  not  by  the  negro  tenants. 

2  The  so-called  "  Sumerian  farming-laws,"  translated  with  notes 
by  G.  Bertin  in  the  Records  of  tJie  Past^  second  series,  3  91-101  (1890). 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  189 

tenure  began  in  the  sixth  month  with  the  drawing 
up  of  a  contract.  The  field  is  enclosed,  hedged, 
ploughed,  and  raked,  "  for  every  sixty  measures  of 
grain  the  farmer  takes  eight  measures."  For  a 
"  field  of  half,"  the  labourer  works  under  the 
proprietor's  overseers,  whereas  in  a  "  field  of 
partnership,"  proprietor  and  tenant  are  on  equal 
footing,  "  man  as  man,  house  as  house,  seed  as 
seed."  At  harvest-time  the  master  supplies  "  a 
long  cart "  and  a  threshing-ox.  Another  column, 
incomplete,  gives  in  detail  the  duties  of  the  tenant. 
"  He  fences  with  sticks  the  ground  to  be  ploughed, 
he  ploughs  and  rakes  it,  he  waters  it  once  and 
twice,  he  fixes  hooks  for  the  pails  for  drawing 
water."  At  harvest -time  he  takes  his  share  as 
arranged  in  the  contract.  The  division  ranges 
from  a  third  to  a  tenth,  and  mention  is  made  of  a 
tithe  for  the  palace.  The  gardener  marks  the  limits 
of  the  garden  with  boundary  stones,1  he  plants  date- 
trees  and  waters  the  young  plants.  It  would  appear 
that  the  tenure  might  cease  at  the  end  of  the  eighth 
month  :  "  at  the  time  of  drying  the  dates,  at  the 
time  of  pulling  up  the  palings,  in  order  to  quit  him- 
self he  delivers  to  the  lord  of  the  plantation  two- 
thirds  of  the  dates.  He  takes  a  fixed  amount  and 
he  sends  in  money  the  amount  of  the  produce  of 
the  date-trees."  Finally,  the  tablet  specifies  the 
other  works  which  the  tenant  of  a  farm  is  bound  to 
perform.  These  comprise  the  strengthening  of 
doors  and  gates,  and  the  building  of  a  house  for 

1  Or,  palings  (Bertin). 


1 9o  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

the  servants,1  whose  wages  he  must  pay  "  at  the 
time  of  the  cessation  of  work,"  and  if  the  house  is 
not  properly  constructed  he  is  fined  ten  shekels. 

Land  was  hired  for  a  fixed  amount,  as  specified 
in  the  contract,  or  the  tenant  (trrtsu)2  undertook  to 
give  the  owner  a  certain  proportion  of  the  yield. 
The  Code  orders  that  the  man  who  has  taken  a 
field  to  cultivate  (a-na  ir-ri-su-tim  u-sa-si-ma)  and 
has  not  caused  it  to  produce  corn  shall  be  put  to 
account  for  his  negligence  and  shall  pay  over  to 
the  owner  of  the  field  (be -el  ekli)  corn  like  its 
neighbour  (ki-ma  i-te-su;  §  42).  It  is  estimated 
that  the  field  should  have  produced  as  much  as 
those  in  its  immediate  neighbourhood  and  the 
cultivator  is  amerced  to  the  extent  of  the  amount 
of  their  crops.  The  same  ruling  holds  good,  also, 
if  the  man  has  left  the  field  to  itself,  but  he  is  under 
a  further  obligation  to  hoe  and  harrow  it  before  he 
returns  it  to  the  owner  (§  43).  A  piece  of  waste 
land  (KI-GAL)  3  that  has  been  taken  on  hire  for  three 
years,  but  has  been  neglected,  must  be  hoed  and 
harrowed  in  the  fourth  year,  and  the  tenant,  when 
he  returns  it  to  the  owner  of  the  field,  must  measure 
out  (i-ma-ad-da-ad)  corn  at  the  rate  of  ten  GUR  per 

1  The  stipulation  that  the  hirer  must  build  a  house  upon   the 
field   is   often  found   in   old    contracts   (e.g.    Meissner,   op.   tit.   no. 
75  sq.). 

2  Post-Bibl.  arts;  see  Pick,  Assyrisches  u.  Talmudisches,  p.  23. 
Specimens  of  such  contracts  have  been  published  in  KB  4  41,  127 ; 
Meissner,  op.  cit.  nos.  72-77. 

3  Unreclaimed  or  land  out  of  cultivation  (Johns,  Amer.  Journ. 
Sem.  Lang.)  1903,  p.  96  sq.\ 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  191 

CAN  (§  44).1  The  first  two  laws  thus  apply  to  corn- 
land  which  has  not  produced  the  average  amount 
of  corn,  or  has  been  neglected,  whilst  the  last  deals 
with  unreclaimed  land  which  three  years'  labour 
was  expected  to  bring  into  proper  condition  (cp. 
CH,  §  30  above).  The  penalty  in  this  case,  it 
would  appear,  consists  not  only  of  a  specified  pay- 
ment of  corn,  but  of  an  additional  year's  service  by 
the  tenant.2  If  the  cultivator  (ir-ri-sum)  has  given 
over  (to  another  ?)  the  field  to  cultivation  (eklu  e-ri- 
$a-am  ik-ta-bi)  the  owner  has  no  right  to  complain 
since  his  field  has  been  cultivated,  and  at  the  harvest 
(i-na  eburi) — when  all  payments  were  made — he 
takes  his  corn  according  to  his  bonds  (ri-ik-sa-ti-su). 
The  law  (§  47)  apparently  refers  to  a  field  that  has 
been  sublet,  and  a  reason  is  given  for  the  owner's 
complaint  which  is  not  clear.3 

The  law  is  not  always  severe  upon  the  cultivator. 
If  a  man  has  given  his  field  to  a  cultivator  in  return 
for  its  produce  (bilti),  and  has  received  his  share, 
and  a  thunderstorm  (ilu  Adad)  has  ravaged  the 
field  and  destroyed  the  crop  (bi~ib-bu-lum),  the  loss 
falls  upon  the  cultivator  (§  45).  If,  however,  the 

1  One  GUR  of  corn  is  worth  one  shekel  of  silver,  and  contains 
300  KAJ  it  is  properly  a  "  camel-load  "  =  5  imir  (ass-load),  Peiser, 
Skizze  d.  bab.  Gesell.  p.  22,  n.     The  CAN  is  a  land -measure  of  un- 
certain extent. 

2  Orelli,  Gesetz  Hammurabis,  p.  60,  finds  in  the  three  laws  three 
successive  stages  in  the  legislation. 

3  as-sum  i-na  sa-at-tim  mah-ri-tim  ma-na-ha-ti-su  la  il-lu-u, 
"  because  in  the  former  year  he  did  not  set  up  his  dwelling  "  (Johns), 
did  not  go  to  his  farm  (Scheil),  obtain  sustenance  (?  Winckler). 


i92  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

owner  has  not  received  the  produce  of  his  field, 
and  the  field  is  let  for  one-half  or  one-third,  the 
cultivator  and  the  owner  divide  the  corn  that  is  left 
in  the  field  (§  46).  In  the  former  case,  the  cultivator 
receives  no  compensation  for  the  loss  of  his  share 
of  the  produce,  whilst  in  the  latter,  the  two  share 
proportionately  according  to  the  contract  whatever 
remains. 

The  laws  relating  to  the  gardener  are  analogous 
to  those  for  the  farmer.  The  man  who  lets  out  a 
plot  of  land  to  the  gardener  allows  him  four  years  in 
which  to  plant  and  rear  it,  and  in  the  fifth  the 
owner  of  the  garden  (be-el  kiri)  and  the  gardener 
(NU  kiri}  share  equally  (§  60).  The  plot  is  divided 
and  each  takes  his  own  produce,  and  if  the  gardener 
has  allowed  a  portion  of  it  to  lie  waste  (ni-di-tum 
i-zi-ib\  he  must  include  that  portion  in  his  own 
share  (§  61).  If- the  gardener  has  not  planted  the 
field  as  a  garden,  and  it  was  corn-land,  he  must 
measure  out  corn  to  the  owner  of  the  field  "like  its 
neighbour"  for  the  years  in  which  it  has  been 
neglected,  and  must  put  it  in  order  before  returning 
it  (§  62  ;  cp.  §  43  sq.).  If  it  was  waste  or  unre- 
claimed (eklu  KI-KAL),  he  must  set  it  in  order  and 
measure  out  10  GUR  of  corn  for  each  CAN  (§  63,  cp. 
above,  §  44).1 

Another  small  group  of  laws  which  also  apply  to 
the  gardener  is  imperfect  owing  to  the  erasure  of 

1  The  payment  is  made  sa  sa-at-tim  is-ti-a-at,  "for  one  year" 
(Winckler),  not  for  all  the  years  that  it  has  been  neglected  (as  in 
§  62).  Johns,  however,  has  "  for  each  year." 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  193 

five  columns  of  the  inscription.  These  do  not 
appear  to  refer  to  the  planting  of  the  garden,  but  to 
the  cultivation  of  one  already  planted.1  Here,  the 
gardener  is  to  receive  one-third  of  the  produce  and 
give  two-thirds  to  the  owner,  and  if  through  his 
negligence  the  yield  is  small,  he  must  measure  it  out 
"like  its  neighbour"  (§  64  sq.\  Finally,  if  a  man 
cuts  down  a  tree  (i-sa-am)  without  (the  consent  of) 
the  owner  he  must  pay  half  a  mina  of  silver  (§  59). 

The  system  of  farming  on  such  conditions 
as  these  is  prevalent.  The  Babylonian  Talmud 
assumes  that  when  land  is  taken  on  lease  the  tenant 
must  do  all  that  is  in  accordance  with  the  custom  of 
the  country  (as  specified  in  the  contract) ;  if  he  does 
not  cultivate  it,  he  must  pay  in  proportion  according 
to  the  amount  the  field  should  produce,  and  if  the 
produce  is  destroyed  by  some  wide-spread  disaster 
(locusts,  fire),  a  deduction  may  be  made.2  At 
Kheybar,  according  to  Doughty  (Ar.  Des.  2  114  sgq.), 
the  Bedouin  are  the  land-owners  and  the  villagers 
husband  the  palms  for  half  the  produce ;  they  hold 
half-rights  which  they  may  sell ;  when  necessary 
they  must  plant  new  trees  for  which  the  owners 
will  compensate  them.  These  holdings  are  quite 

1  a-na  ru-ku-bi-im,  on  the  analogy  of  the  Talmudic  use  of  the 
verb,  is  understood  by  Joh.  Jeremias  (p.  20,  n.  3)  to  mean  a  grafting  ; 
Johns  renders  by  "  to  farm." 

2  B.  Mes.,  9  ;  Pick,  /.  c.     Cp.  the  specimen  of  a  contract  cited  by 
Vogelstein  (pp.  cit.  p.  49,  n.  15),  where  the  tenant  pays  the  expenses, 
and  gives  the  owner  half  the  produce,  and  binds  himself  with  the 
following  promise  :  "  If  I  leave  it  waste  and  till  it  not,  I  shall  pay 
back  according  to  the  best."     See  below,  p.  202,  n.  i. 

13 


i94  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

distinct  from  the  open  lands  which  the  villagers 
possess  in  their  own  right.  In  Palestine  the  amount 
taken  by  the  owners  varies.  Some  Bedouin  pro- 
prietors take  one-fifth  only,  but  the  fellahin  pay  all 
the  expenses ;  more  commonly  the  proportion  is 
one-fourth  and  the  land-owner  provides  the  seed.1 

Of  the  agricultural  laws  of  ancient  Israel  we 
know  but  little,  although  all  the  evidence  goes 
to  prove  that  there  must  have  been  numerous 
customary  usages  in  vogue.  Canaan  had  been 
under  cultivation  long  before  the  Israelites  entered, 
and  agriculture  plays  a  very  prominent  part  in  the 
history  of  the  land.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the 
promises  and  threats  associated  with  the  observa- 
tion of  the  Deuteronomic  code  are  specifically 
agricultural.  They  are  as  characteristic  of  Israel  as 
Hammurabi's  Epilogue  (chap.  i.  above)  is  of  Baby- 
lonia— not  that  agriculture  was  practised  to  a  less 
extent  in  Babylonia,  but  in  Israel  it  was  the  people's 
life,  and  it  left  its  mark  upon  the  language  and 
sentiment  to  a  degree  that  finds  no  parallel  in  the 
commercial  powers  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates.2 

It  is  not  until  Deut.  19  14,  27  17  that  it  becomes 
necessary  to  prohibit  the  removal  of  the  neighbour's 
landmark.  The  land-grabbing  tendencies  of  the 
rich  and  powerful  was  one  of  the  curses  of  the 
monarchy,  and  the  numerous  references  to  the 

1  Post,  PEFQ,    1891,  p.  104;  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,   1901, 
p.  606. 

2  A  picture  of  later  Jewish  agriculture  is  presented  by  the  writer 
of  the  Letter  of  Arts  teas,  107  sqq. 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  195 

offence  in  the  later  writings  stand  out  in  striking  j 
contrast  to  the  silence  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant.1 
The  landmark  (gebul)  was  scarcely  an  inscribed 
stone  similar  to  the  Bab.  kuduru  (p.  183  above).  In 
modern  times,  when  the  same  plot  is  divided  and 
shared  by  several  in  common,  division  is  indicated 
by  a  furrow  of  double  width,  or  more  generally  by 
stones  which  are  placed  at  each  end  of  the  boundary 
lines.2  It  is  probable,  therefore,  that  the  Deutero-^ 
nomic  law  referred  to  the  cases  where  land  was 
held  in  common,  and  not  to  the  boundaries  of 
estates  or  properties  which  would  naturally  be  of  a 
more  permanent  character.3  The  same  offence  was 
condemned  in  Assyria,  and  among  a  list  of  sins 
which  a  man  might  commit  we  meet  with  such 
questions  as  :  "  Has  he  set  up  a  false  landmark,  or 
has  he  refused  to  set  up  a  true  landmark  ?  Has 
he  removed  bound,  border,  or  landmark  ?  " 4 

Further,  the  modern  Palestinian  custom  which 
compels  a  man  to  sow  on  his  strips  of  land  the  same 
seed  as  the  rest,  in  order  that  all  may  harvest  at  the 

1  Hos.  5  10,  Prov.  22  28,  23  ioa  (where  read  "  the  landmark  of  the 
widow,"  cp.  1625),  Job  24  2. 

2  Neil,  Viet.  Inst.  p.  159^.  ;  Bergheim,  PEFQ,  1894,  p.  195  sq. 
The  modern  name,  according  to  the  former,  is  takhem,  "  limits,"  the 
abstract  for  the  concrete  as  in  the  case  of  the  Hebrew  ggbiil. 

3  Trees    are   sometimes    planted   at    the    present    day   to    mark 
permanent  boundaries  (cp.  Gen.  2 1  33  ?),  and  the  fellahm  dig  a  hole 
wherein  are  placed  egg-shells  and  charcoal,  which,  as  they  say,  never 
disappear,  and  can  always  be  dug  up  as  evidence  (Clermont-Ganneau, 
Recueil  d^Archeol.  Orient.  5  331 ;   1903). 

4  King,  Babylonian  Religion,  p.   219;    from   a   seventh -century 
tablet. 


196  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

same  time,  suggests  an  explanation  of  the  precept 
directed  against  sowing  a  field  with  two  kinds  of 
seed  (Lev.  19  19,  Deut.  22  9).*  The  reason  preferred 
by  the  Deuteronomist  is  obscure,  but  it  seems  not 
unlikely  that  he  is  only  giving  effect  to  a  survival  of 
ancient  custom  by  clothing  it  with  what  in  his  day 
was  deemed  a  plausible  explanation.  In  like 

manner  it  can  scarcely  be  maintained  that  the  in- 
junction in  Ex.  23  10  sq.  (cp.  Lev.  25  3  sq.)t  that 
each  plot  should  lie  fallow  in  the  seventh  year,  was 
originally  based  upon  the  institution  of  the  seventh 
day  of  rest.  In  later  times,  according  to  the 
Mishnah,  a  field  was  divided  into  portions,  of  which 
one  half  was  sown  in  the  first  year  and  the  second 
half  in  the  year  following,  or  the  whole  field  was 
sown  for  a  few  years  and  then  allowed  to  remain 
fallow  for  a  length  of  time.  Experience  naturally 
taught  the  necessity  of  letting  the  ground  rest,  and 
it  was  enforced  by  a  law  which  based  itself  upon 
motives  of  humanity.2  Similarly,  the  law  in  Lev. 
19  9,  2822,  which  exhorts  the  cultivator  to  leave  the 
corners  of  his  field  for  the  poor,  is  introduced  solely 
out  of  benevolent  motives.  A  relic  of  an  ancient 
communistic  life  has  already  been  suspected,3  but  it 

1  Here  may  be  noticed  the  later  post-biblical  rule  that  a  man 
might  not  sow  on  his  field  seed  of  a  different  kind  to  that  specified 
in  his  contract  (Vogelstein,  Landwirtschaft  in  Paldstina^  1  50,  n.  20). 

2  Ex.  23  ii.     On  the  curious  change  in  Lev.  25  20-22  (fallow  in 
the  ninth  year),  see  the  commentaries  of  Driver  and  White  (Haupt's 
Sacred  Books  of  the  Old  Testament),  and  Bertholet,  ad  loc. 

3  Oort,    Theologisch    Tijdschrift^    1900,    p.   286    (Bertholet,   on 
Lev.  19  9). 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  197 

is  more  tempting  to  suppose  that  the  rule  took  its 
rise  in  ceremonies  relating  to  the  corn-spirit  and  the 
last  sheaves  of  corn  which,  as  Mannhardt  and 
Frazer  have  shown,  are  to  be  found  almost  every- 
where.1 As  another  example  of  the  manner  in 
which  an  agricultural  custom  has  been  preserved  in 
Hebrew  ritual,  it  is  interesting  to  observe  that  the 
Law  of  Holiness  is  doubtless  only  following  ancient 
practice  when  it  forbids  the  fruit  of  newly  planted 
trees  to  be  eaten  before  the  fifth  year  (Lev.  19  23  sq.). 
This  is  precisely  the  length  of  time  which,  as  we 
have  already  seen  in  CH,  §  60,  must  elapse  before 
the  gardener  and  owner  are  allowed  to  divide  the 
produce.  Finally,  if  Hebrew  law  forbade  the  de- 
struction of  fruit-trees  in  war  (Deut.  20  19),  it  is  more 
than  probable  that  the  offence  of  cutting  down  a 
tree  in  the  orchard  of  another  (CH,  §  59)  was  one 
for  which  customary  usage  made  some  provision 
(cp.  Ex.  22  5  sq.)? 

Circumstances  combined  to  make  artificial  irriga- 
tion in  Babylonia  a  matter  of  the  greatest  necessity, 

1  The  modern  Palestinian  harvest-ceremony  with  the  corn-spirit, 
as  related  by  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,  1903,  p.  258,  seems  to  be  at 
present  the  only  known  example  of  its  kind  from  the  Semitic  field. 

2  Cp.  Fenton,  Early  Hebrew  Life,  p.  39,  who  also  observes  that 
trees  in  the  open  country  would  be  common  property.     This  is  no 
doubt  correct  as  regards  all   vegetation  which  required  no  manual 
labour  or  care  ;  even  Josephus  remarks  that  whatever  grows  of  itself 
is  for  the  use  of  the  whole  community  (Ant.  iii.  12  3).     The  usufruct 
is  free  to  all,  only  entire  possession  cannot  be  arbitrarily  claimed. 
So,  the  Deuteronomic  law  which  allows  the  passer-by  to  take  the 
eggs  or  young  ones  but  not  the  mother -bird   is  possibly  only  one 
typical  case  in  point  (see  Fenton,  op.  cit.  p.  48). 


/ 


198  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

and  the  watering  of  the  fields  sometimes  forms  one 
of  the  clauses  in  the  tenant's  contract.1  Equal 
attention  was  paid  to  it  in  Arabia,2  Palestine,  and 
Syria,  although  no  traces  of  laws  analogous  to  those 
in  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  appear  to  exist,3  and  the 
silence  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  may  be  taken 
as  proof  that  artificial  irrigation  was  not  practised  to 
any  great  extent  in  ancient  Israel.4 

Babylonia  was  intersected  with  canals  which  re- 
quired constant  repair;  they  were  cleaned  out  at 
intervals,  and  the  banks  strengthened  from  year  to 
year.5  The  responsibility  for  their  maintenance 
rested  with  the  men  who  had  land  along  the  banks, 
in  return  for  which  they  appear  to  have  held  the 
rights  of  fishing.6  If  a  man  was  too  negligent  to 
attend  to  the  banks  of  his  canal,  and  a  breach 
opened  itself  and  the  fields  (ugaru)  were  inundated, 
the  Code  enacted  that  the  man  must  make  good 
the  corn  which  was  destroyed,  and  in  default  of  this 
he  and  his  goods  (bi-sa-su)  were  sold  and  the  pro- 
ceeds shared  by  those  who  held  the  fields  (mar 

1  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  12,  n.  3. 

2  See  Rel.  Sem.(2)  pp.  96-104,  for  the  distinction  between  land 
requiring  artificial  irrigation  by  laborious  methods  and  that  which  is 
kept  fresh  by  nature.      Cp.  also  Barton,  Semitic  Origins,  p.  124. 

3  Cp.  Anderlind's  description  of  modern  methods,  ZDPV,  931-38, 
48;  Vogelstein,  op.  cit.  pp.  13-18  (1894);  Doughty,  Arabia  Deserta, 
2  199. 

4  Wellhausen,  Israelitische  und  jiidische  Geschichte^  p.  82,  n.  2. 

5  So   also    in    Talmudical    times    (Pick,  Assyrisches    und    Tal- 
mudisches,  p.  21  sg.). 

6  King,  Letters,  pp.  14  sq.,  121  sq. 


CHAP,  viii  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  199 

ugare;  §  53  sq.).1  The  water  was  conveyed  through 
the  fields  in  trenches,  and  the  Code  provides  that 
the  man  who  opened  his  runnel  (a-dap-pa-su)  for 
irrigation,  and  negligently  allowed  the  bordering 
field  to  be  inundated,  must  pay  back  corn  "  like  its 
neighbour"  (§55;  cp.  §  42,  above).  If,  through 
such  negligence,  the  crops  (ip-se-tim)  of  the  next 
field  were  inundated,  he  was  ordered  to  pay  ten  GUR 
of  corn  per  CAN  (§  56  ;  cp.  §§  44,  63,  above).2 

Theft  of  a  man's  watering -wheel  and  bucket3 
come  under  consideration  in  the  Code  (§  259  sy.), 
and  a  number  of  minor  regulations  relating  to  agri-| 
cultural  life  are  set  down  with  great  minuteness.! 
The  hire  for  a  working-ox  for  one  year  is  fixed  at 
four  GUR  of  corn  (§  242);  the  milch-cow  (?)  was  one 
GUR  less  (§  243).  The  payment  for  animals  hired 
for  the  purpose  of  threshing  is  twenty  KA  4  of  corn 
for  an  ox,  ten  for  an  ass,  and  one  for  a  lalu  (young 
calf  or  goat?;  §§  268-270).  The  ox  and  ass  were 
similarly  used  in  Palestine ; 5  in  Babylonia  the  lalu 


1  Are  these  lands  held  in  common  ? 

2  The    Babylonian    legislation   reminds    one    of    the    Irrigation 
Department  in  the  kingdom  of  Asoka  the  Buddhist  emperor,  and 
the  analogous  institution  in  Egypt. 

3  One  is  reminded  of  the  provision  in  the  Laws  of  Manu  for  the 
theft  of  a  rope  or  watering-pot  from  a  well  (8  319). 

4  A  GUR  of  corn  contained  three  hundred  KA,  and  was  worth  one 
shekel  of  silver. 

5  EBi.  "Agriculture,"  col.  82  ;  Vogelstein,  op.  cit.  p.  68  (where 
the  hire  is  6  kab  for  an  ox,  3  for  an  ass)  ;  cp.  ib.  n.  66  sq.  (where 
threshing-machines    are    worked    by    oxen,    as    in    Assyria).       The 
"working-ox"  (§  242)  may  also  have  been  used  to  turn  the  water- 


200  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

may  have  been  employed  only  by  the  poorest.  For 
oxen,  wagon,  and  driver,  one  hundred  and  eighty 
KA  of  corn  per  day  is  demanded  (§  271),  but  for  the 
wagon  alone  only  forty  (§  272). 

/  Here  it  will  be  convenient  to  notice  the  laws 
/relating  to  crops  damaged  by  the  flocks.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Code,  if  a  shepherd  pastured  (us-ta-ki-il) 
his  sheep  upon  the  growing  corn  (sa-am-mi)  with- 
out coming  to  an  agreement  with  the  owner  of 
the  field  and  without  his  (consent),  at  harvest-time 
the  shepherd  must  pay  twenty  GUR  of  corn  per  CAN 
(§  57)-  The  law  is  perfectly  straightforward;  the 
[crops  are  less,  owing  to  the  depredations  of  the  flock, 
(and  a  compensation  must  be  made.  The  law  that 
follows  is  less  easy  to  understand.  If,  after  the 
sheep  leave  the  pasture  (ugart)  and  the  whole  flock 
(?  ka-an-nu  ga-ma-ar-tim)  has  passed  through  the 
city  gate,  the  shepherd  lays  them  upon  a  field  and 
pastures  them  there,  the  shepherd  must  attend  to 
(i-na-sa-ar-ma)1  the  field,  and  at  harvest-time  he 
must  measure  out  sixty  GUR  of  corn  per  CAN  (§  58).2 
The  heavier  penalty  presupposes  that  the  crops  are 
in  a  more  advanced  state. 

The  additional  labour  imposed  upon  the  herds- 
man is  not  out  of  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the 
Code,3  on  which  account  the  alternative  rendering 

wheel,  as  was  and  still  is  customary  in  Palestine  {Jewish  Encyclo- 
paedia, 1  268$). 

1  nasdru,  used  analogously  to  the  Heb.  samar. 

2  The  law  was   already  familiar  from   Rm.  277,  col.  viii.  7-22  ; 
cp.  Delitzsch,  Beit.  2.  Assyr.  4  82  sq. 

3  Cp.  §  44,  where  the  man  who  has  taken  a  field  for  three  years 


CHAP,  vin  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  201 

adopted  by  Johns  ("the  shepherd  .  .  .  one  shall 
watch")  does  not  commend  itself.  A  further 
difficulty  appears  in  the  opening  words,  which  seem 
to  presuppose  that  there  were  fields  within  the  city 
gates.1  In  point  of  fact,  it  would  appear  from  other 
evidence  that  there  were  spaces  inside  the  walls, 
and  both  Babylon  and  Nineveh  were  full  of  such 
"squares,"2  but  the  open  ground  outside,  in  front 
of  the  gate,  was  used  for  pasture  and  was  the 
scene  of  periodical  markets.  Perhaps  the  mean- 
ing is  that  the  sheep  have  been  allowed  to  tres- 
pass on  their  way  from  the  pasture-ground  to  the 
gate. 

The  same  topic  comes  under  consideration  in  later 
Jewish  law,3  and  according  to  the  traditional  interpre- 
tation provision  is  made  even  as  early  as  the  Book  of 
the  Covenant.  Of  the  two  laws  in  Ex.  22  5  sq.t  the 
former,  according  to  the  ordinary  view,  deals  with 
the  man  who  allows  his  beasts  to  eat  in  another 

and  has  neglected  it  must  put  in  another  year's  labour  and  pay  a 
specified  amount  of  corn. 

1  So,  for  example,  Delitzsch,  loc.  cit. 

2  Sayce,  op.  cit.  p.  112. 

3  Baba  kamma,  2.     A  distinction  is  drawn  between  domesticated 
and  dangerous  animals,  between  those  shut  up  in  a  stable  and  those 
loose,  and  the  shepherd  is  responsible  for  his  flock  even  if  he  has 
entrusted    it    to    another;    cp.  Jewish    Encyclopedia,   1  160.       The 
Laws  of  Manu  distinguish  two  cases :  for  cattle  that  feed  upon  en- 
closed crops  a  fine  is  demanded ;  if  the  crops  were  unfenced,  the 
value  of  the  crop  must  be  restored  (8  238,  240  sq.).     Modern  custom 
allows  the  farmer  to  injure  or  kill  the  trespassing  beast  and  at  the 
same  time  to  demand  compensation  for  the  damage  (Jaussen,  Revue 
Biblique,  1901,  p.  600). 


202  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  vm 

man's  field,  and  orders  restitution  to  be  made  of  the 
best  in  his  own  field.  The  law  is  given  in  a  fuller 
form  in  the  Septuagint  and  Samaritan  versions  :  "If 
a  man  cause  a  field  or  a  vineyard  to  be  eaten  and 
shall  let  loose  his  beast  and  it  feed  in  another  man's 
,  field  he  shall  surely  make  restitution  from  his  own 
field  according  to  its  yield,  and  if  he  cause  all  the  field 
\  to  be  eaten  he  shall  make  restitution  from  the  best  of 
Lhis  field  and  the  best  of  his  vineyard."  *  Here,  the 
words  in  italics  are  not  found  in  the  Massoretic 
text.  Apart  from  other  objections  to  the  rendering, 
the  interpretation  of  the  verb  hitiir  and  its  deriva- 
tive constitutes  the  difficulty.  The  verb  is  almost 
everywhere  used  of  burning,  and  Hoffmann,  followed 
by  Baentsch  and  Dillman-Ryssel,  accordingly  brings 
the  law  into  connection  with  v.  6,  where  devastation 
by  fire  is  handled.  Under  these  circumstances,  the 
first  law  will  deal  with  a  man  who  burns  the  refuse 
in  his  field  or  vineyard 2  and  negligently  allows  it  to 
spread  to  his  neighbour's  ground,  whilst  the  second 
is  purely  a  case  of  vis  major — fire  has  accidentally 
spread  and  burnt  the  adjoining  crops, — and  the  law 
demands  a  restitution,  but  of  an  unstated  character.3 
Later  Jewish  times  treated  the  subject  with  greater 

1  In  later  times  land  was  divided  into  three  classes :  best, 
medium,  and  inferior  ;  damages  by  individuals  or  animals  were  made 
good  from  the  first ;  creditors  were  paid  from  the  second  (Gift,  5  i ; 
cp.  Schwab  transl.  9  17  sq.). 

z  Cp.  Is.  5  24,  27  ii,  Ezek.  15  4,  6,  19  12,  Ps.  80  16  ;  also  Is.  5  5 
(see  RVms-)- 

3  The  usual  interpretation  of  v.  5  (cp.  EV)  is,  as  the  secondary 
addition  in  LXX.  and  Sam.  proves,  undeniably  old. 


CHAP,  viii  LAND  AND  AGRICULTURE  203 

precision,1  and  if  the  fire  passed  from  point  to  point 
until  it  reached  the  adjoining  fields,  the  man  who 
had  kindled  it  was  responsible ;  whilst  if  the  fields 
were  separated  by  a  wall,  stream,  or  road,  the 
spread  of  the  fire  was  held  to  be  due  to  uncon- 
trollable circumstances  and  no  restitution  was  to  be 
made. 

1  Jewish  Encyclopedia,  1 


CHAPTER    IX 

TRADE   AND    COMMERCE 

Business  in  Babylonia  contrasted  with  Israel — Scantiness  of  evidence 
in  Israel — Methods  of  conducting  business — General  laws  for 
the  furtherance  of  business  and  trade — Theft  and  burglary — 
Analogous  Hebrew  laws  —  The  receiver  of  stolen  and  lost 
property — Laws  for  property  in  the  charge  of  another — The 
boatman — Hired  animals  in  Israel  and  Babylonia — Laws  of 
deposit — Debtor  and  creditor — Pledges  and  security — Simplicity 
of  procedure  in  Israel — Antichretic  pledge  in  Syria — Trading 
journeys — Laws  for  agent  and  principal. 

THE  numerous  contract-tablets  from  Babylonia  and 
Assyria  and  the  survival  of  one  or  two  old  Baby- 
lonian laws  had  for  some  years  past  led  to  the 
conviction  that  business  relations  from  the  time  of 
the  first  dynasty  must  have  been  regulated  with  the 
greatest  precision,  and  not  only  is  this  entirely  borne 
out  by  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  itself,  but  we  are 
now  introduced  to  a  thoroughness  of  detail  which 
presupposes  that  the  closest  attention  possible  was 
paid  to  the  perfection  of  the  machinery  upon  which 
the  successful  prosecution  of  trade  and  commerce 
depends.  The  Babylonians  were  past  masters  in 
all  that  pertains  to  business,  and  many  current 

204 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  205 

usages  can  be  traced  back  to  them  through  the! 
Greeks  and  Romans ;  and  Kohler  has  justly  re- 
marked, in  the  course  of  one  of  his  model  studies 
on  the  legislation  of  Babylon,  /that  the  history  of; 
trade  and  money  transactions  cannot  be  written* 
without  reference  to  Babylonia.1  In  agreement 
with  the  scope  of  the  present  study,  however,  it  is 
not  required  for  us  to  do  more  than  note  the  laws  in 
the  Code  of  Hammurabi  which  relate  to  business 
dealings,  and  the  numerous  details  revealed  in  the 
contract-tablets  from  the  earliest  times  onwards  do 
not  call  for  consideration  except  in  so  far  as  they 
illustrate  the  laws  in  question.  In  this  department, 
moreover,  if  the  attempt  were  made  to  trace  the 
influence  of  Babylonia  upon  Israel,  it  would  be  to 
the  post-exilic,  nay,  rather,  the  post-biblical  literature 
to  which  we  should  have  to  turn.  Trade  and  com- 
merce as  we  understand  it,  and  as  it  was  understood 
in  Babylonia,  was  entirely  foreign  to  the  early 
Israelites — to  the  primitive  Semites.  Commercial 
cleverness  is  partly  a  matter  of  environment ;  certain 
communities  have  acquired  an  aptitude  for  acuteness 
in  business — to  others  it  is  abhorrent.  Love  of 
money  and  the  commercial  spirit  do  not  always  go 
hand-in-hand,  and  the  varying  degrees  of  business 
talent  found  among  present  day  Bedouin  suggests 
that  things  were  not  otherwise  before  the  Christian 
era. 

The  Israelites  confess  a  latent  objection  to  the 
commercial     spirit     when    they    use    the    gentilic 

1  Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  4  430. 


206  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

"  Canaanite "  (Phoenician)1  as  a  specific  term  for 
,all  traders.  The  designation  is  correct,  since  the 
Phoenicians  were  pre-eminently  the  traders  of  the 
Mediterranean,  and  through  their  trading-journeys 
were  no  doubt  acquainted  with  Babylonian  methods. 
There  were  traders,  of  course,  even  in  ancient 
Israel,  and  great  trade-routes  crossed  the  country 
along  the  Jordan  valley  or  the  maritime  plain,  and 
smaller  cross  routes  branched  out  and  joined  the 
larger  towns,2  but  we  can  scarcely  infer  that  the 
traders  left  their  mark  upon  the  country  to  any 
greater  extent  than,  perhaps,  the  Gipsies  of  Europe, 
and  this  inference  is  supported  by  a  critical  examina- 
tion of  the  evidence. 

The  Book  of  the  Covenant,  although  acquainted 
[with  money  and  deposits,  makes  no  provision  for 
trade,  whereas  in  Deuteronomy  there  are  regulations 
•  for   debts    and    interest,    and   the    internal    history 
indicates  that  the  lengthy  reigns  of  Jeroboam   II. 
and^Uzziah    saw  a  marked  change  in  the  economic 
j  conditions  of  the  country.     Thus  arose  the  necessity 
'  for  denouncing  the   sins    of  trade,    avariciousness, 
oppression,  and,  in  particular,  the  frequent  condem- 
nation of  unfair  weights   (Deut.  25  13-16 ;  cp.  Lev. 
19s6,  Ezek.  45  10-12,  etc.).3      But  the  scantiness  of 

1  The  earlier  names  are  also  tribal,  e.g.   Ishmaelite  (Gen.  37  25 
sqq.  J),  Midianites  (Gen.  37  28,  36  E). 

2  Cp.  G.  A.  Smith,  EBi.  "  Trade  and  Commerce,"  §§32  sqq. 

3  Cp.  in  the  list  of  sins  from  an  Assyrian  tablet  of  the  seventh 
century — "  Has  he  used  false  scales  ?  .  .   .  has  he  accepted  a  wrong 
account,  or  has    he    refused  a   rightful    sum  ? "   (King,  Babylonian 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  207 

evidence  upon  the  Hebrew  side  still  continues  to  be 
remarkable,  and  it  is  an  extremely  significant  fact 
that  the  Hebrew  terminology  of  trade  in  the  Old 
Testament  contains  comparatively  few  words  of 
Babylonian  or  Assyrian  origin,  and  these,  in  turn, 
are  to  be  found  chiefly  in  the  exilic  and  the  post- 
exilic  writings, — that  is  to  say,  subsequent  to  the 
period  when  Israel  had  been  brought  into  the  closest 
possible  touch  with  Assyrian  life  and  conditions.1 

In  Babylonia  and  Assyria  all  business  was  done^ 
by  deed  or  bond  before  witnesses,2  not  only  between 
strangers  or  kinsfolk,  but  even  between  members  of 
the  same  family — Babylonia  was  verily  a  Paradise 
for  the  professional  scribe.  According  to  the  Code, 
"if  a  man  has  bought  (is-ta-am)  silver  or  gold, 
man-servant  (ardu)  or  maid-servant,  ox  or  sheep  or 
ass  or  anything  else,  from  the  son  of  a  man  or  the 
man-servant  of  a  man,  or  has  received  it  on  deposit 
(a-na  ma-sa-ru-tim  im-hu-ur)  without  witness  or 
contract  (ri-ik-sa-tim),  he  is  a  thief  (sar-ra-ak)  and 
shall  be  put  to  death  (id-da-ak)"  (§7).  It  is 
interesting  to  notice  that  the  names  of  nearly  all  the 
objects  mentioned  (kaspu,  hurasu,  alpu,  immeru, 
imeru,  etc.)  are  also  familiar  in  Hebrew  or  Phoe- 
nician, but  the  technical  terms  are  quite  distinct.3 

Religion,  p.  2 1 9).  From  Amos  8  5  it  may  be  perhaps  inferred  that 
weights  and  measures  were  legally  fixed  by  the  eighth  century. 

1  G.  A.  Smith,  EBi.  "Trade  and  Commerce,"  §  82. 

2  Each  party  often  has  a  relative  or  two  among  his  witnesses 
(e.g.  in  KB  4  41,  each  has  a  brother). 

3  On  the  Heb.  terms  for  buying  and  depositing,  cp.  G.  A.  Smith, 
EBi.  col.  5198  (g\  and  art  "Deposit"  (col.  1074). 


208  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

The  law  is  a  just  one,  its  evident  aim  being 
to  ensure  that  business  was  transacted  with  a 
certain  amount  of  publicity  when  one  of  the  parties 
was  a  minor  or  under  the  tutelage  of  a  master. 
Thus  it  was  less  easy  for  the  servant  or  slave  to 
make  dishonest  use  of  his  master's  goods,  and  a 
sharp -dealing  trader  was  prevented  from  taking 
advantage  of  the  minor's  youth  and  inexperience. 
Accordingly  the  law  is  drawn  up  in  the  interests  both 
of  the  father  and  of  the  owner  of  servants. 

The  business  transactions  of  the  Israelites  were 

j  performed  in  the  simplest  of  methods.  In  P's  long 
account  of  the  purchase  of  the  Cave  of  Machpelah 
(Gen.  23),  the  presence  of  witnesses  is  practically 
the  only  important  legal  feature.1  The  stipulated 
price,  four  hundred  shekels,  the  price  which  the 
seller  "had  spoken  in  the  ears"  of  the  people, 
required  no  contract.  The  plot  is  specified — the 
field,  the  cave,  and  all  the  trees, — the  wording  is 
not  improbably  in  accordance  with  customary  legal 
usage  in  Israel,  but  as  such  is  not  Babylonian,  nor 
is  it  drawn  up  in  accordance  with  the  Babylonian 
stereotyped  formulae.2  From  Jer.  32  6  sqq.,  however, 

I  it  appears  that  towards  the  close  of  the  seventh 
century  a  more  business-like  practice  was  in  use,  at 

"all  events  in  the  larger  towns.     The  transaction  was 

iput  in  writing,  witnesses  were  called  and  the  money 

1  So,  in  Ruth  4  10  sq.,  the  solemn  appeal  is  made  to  the  testimony 
of  the  elders  who  act  as  witnesses. 

2  Pinches,  The  Old  Testament,  pp.  236-8.      See  p.  38  above,  and 
cp.  Carpenter  and  Harford-Battersby,  The  Hexateuch,  1  64. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  209 

weighed  out  in  their  presence,  and  they  signed  their) 
names.      In   this   case    the   witnesses   were   court- 
officials.     The  purchase-deed  (sepher  ham-miknaJi) 
was   sealed   and    preserved    in    a    receptacle    and, 
according  to  the  present  text,  a  duplicate  was  drawn 
up  which  was  called  the  "  open." 1     Notwithstanding 
this,   such  primitive  usages   were    retained   as   the 
taking  off  of  the  shoe — symbolical  of  the  transference.) 
of  rights  (Ruth  4  7  sq.\  and  the  striking  of  hands  asj 
an  indication  of  agreement  (Prov.  6  i,  22  26).2 

In  the  preceding  chapter  we  have  already  had 
occasion  to  notice  certain  laws  dealing  with  the 
responsibilities  of  labourers  in  so  far  as  they  pertain 
to  the  protection  of  agricultural  interests.  These 
now  require  to  be  supplemented,  and  it  will  be  con- 
venient in  this  chapter  to  classify  the  various  usages 
by  means  of  which  the  Semites  endeavoured  to 
further  trade  and  commerce  and  to  ensure  due 
respect  for  the  property  rights  of  individuals.  The 
greater  the  precision  with  which  law  or  custom 
handles  the  protection  of  property  the  more  ad- 
vanced must  be  the  conditions  of  life  in  general 
and  trade  and  commerce  in  particular.  The  laws 
which  require  to  be  noticed  range  over  a  great 
variety  of  subjects  and  may  be  considered  in  the 

1  The  text  in  w.  n,  14  is  corrupt ;  in  the  former  verse  "  the  com- 
mandment and  the  stipulations "  (RV  "  according  to  the  law  and 
custom ")   is    probably  a  gloss ;    see   further  the   commentaries   of 
Giesebrecht  and  Bertholet,  ad  loc.     In  later  Jewish  times  it  was  only 
occasionally   that  a  copy  of  a  deed    was    put   on    record   (Jewish 
Encyclopedia,  1  395^: :  Roman  influence  is  suggested). 

2  Cp.  G.  A.  Smith,  EBi.  "Trade,"  col.  5196*). 

14 


210  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

following  order :  theft,  hired  goods,  deposits,  loans 
and  debts,  agents  and  traders.  The  comparative 
minuteness  with  which  the  Babylonian  code  deals 
with  these  topics  will  be  particularly  prominent  in 
the  course  of  the  following  pages,  and  it  will  be  im- 
possible to  ignore  the  conviction  that  the  trading 
successes  of  the  Babylonians  and  Assyrians — and 
to  these  names  we  may  perhaps  add  that  of  the 
Phoenicians — was  very  largely  due  to  the  wise 
counsels  of  the  Babylonian  monarch  Hammurabi. 
The  care  taken  in  his  Code  to  place  upon  a  firm 
footing  everything  that  tended  to  give  security  both 
to  individual  property  and  to  business  relations 
between  a  man  and  his  neighbour  do  not  fail  to 
move  our  admiration,  and  tend  to  exemplify  in  a 
more  striking  manner  than  ever  the  essential 
difference  between  the  people  of  this  ancient  seat  of 
civilisation  and  the  other  Semites  dwelling  alone, 
secure  and  unsuspicious,  remote  from  strangers  and 
foreigners  (cp.  Judges  18;,  Job  1519).  Not  only 
do  we  find  that  Hammurabi  has  fixed  the  standard 
of  pay  for  agricultural  labourers  and  workmen  (p. 
172  sq.  above),  and  has  settled  the  rate  of  exchange 
(CH,  §  51),  he  even  interferes  in  the  price  of  wine 
and  enacts  two  laws,  the  motives  of  which  are  no 
longer  perfectly  intelligible.  The  wine  -  seller  (a 
female,  p.  150  above)  who  sold  drink,  not  by 
corn,  but  by  the  "  great  weight,"  *  and  made  its  price 

1  i-na  abni  ra-bi-tum,  perhaps  two-thirds  of  a  shekel,  as  opposed 
to  the  "little  weight"  (abnu  sihritt),  which  was  one-third  (Johns, 
Amer.  Journ.  Sem.  Lang.  1903,  p.  173). 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  211 

less  than  the  price  of  corn,  was  to  be  put  to  account 
and  drowned  (§  108).  On  the  other  hand,  if  she 
gave  sixty  KA  of  U-SA  KA-NI  drink  "for  thirst" 
(?  di-ip-tim)  at  harvest-time,  she  was  to  receive  fifty 
KA  of  corn  (§  in).  Presumably  at  this  thirsty 
season  drink  might  be  sold  at  a  cheaper  rate. 

The  laws  relating  to  theft  of  various  kinds  are 
perhaps  the  most  complete  of  their  kind  in  the 
whole  of  the  Code.  Theft  of  the  first  order  involv- 
ing entry  deals  with  the  goods  of  the  temple  (i-li) 
or  palace  (e-kal)  and  condemns  to  death  both  the 
thief  and  the  receiver  of  stolen  goods  (§  6).  For 
stealing  an  ox,  sheep,  ass,  pig,1  or  ship  from  the 
temple  or  palace  a  thirtyfold  restitution  must  be 
made,  but  only  tenfold  if  the  thief  is  a  poor  man2; 
and  if  he  has  nought  to  pay  he  is  put  to  death  (§  8). 
(In  between  these  laws  is  sandwiched  the  require- 
ment that  business  transactions  with  a  minor  or 
slave  must  be  done  in  the  presence  of  witnesses 
and  with  contract.) 

Sacrilege,  according   to  old   Semitic    belief  and 
custom,  would  be  most  severely  punished  ;  the  pro- 
perty of  the  deity  is  taboo  to  common  people,  and  the 
god  himself  isexpected  to  intervene  to  protect  hisown. 
Achan's  sin  practically  consisted  in  stealing  property  1 
that  had  been  dedicated  to  Yahwe,  and  the  death  j 
penalty  for  such  an  offence  finds  an  analogy  in  Gen.  i 

1  The  animals  are  tribute  or  revenue  for  the  temple.      Cp.  King, 
Letters  of  Hammurabi,  nos.  xxxii.  sq.  ;  cp.  p.  144. 

2  A  tenfold  restitution  is  also  required  of  the  dishonest  shepherd 
$265). 


212  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

31  32  (E),  where  Jacob,  in  answer  to  Laban's  accusa- 
tion that  his  goods  have  been  stolen,  declares  that 
with  whomsoever  Laban  shall  find  them  "  he  shall 
not  live."  Primarily  a  man  protected  his  own  pro- 
perty by  placing  it  under  a  taboo  or  in  a  holy  place 
— i.e.  under  the  protection  of  a  deity, — and  the 
custom  is  still  widely  prevalent.1  Communities  that 
are  susceptible  to  development  soon  outgrow  such 
trustful  practices  and  severer  measures  are  taken 
against  the  thief  either  by  the  sufferer  himself  or  by 
the  authorities. 

[Two  remarkable  laws  in  the  Code  allow  the  thief 
to  be  put  to  death  summarily  by  the  individual  who 
has  been  robbed.  If  a  house  is  on  fire  and  a  man 
comes  to  extinguish  it  and  "  lifts  up  his  eyes  "  (i-in- 
su  i$-si-ma)  towards  the  owner's  property  and  takes 
it,  he  is  to  be  cast  into  the  fire  (§  25).  Again,  if  a 
man  has  made  a  breach  (ip-lu-us)  in  a  house,  "  one 
shall  kill  him  before  this  breach  (pi-li-si-im)  and 
bury  him"  (in  it?  §  2i).2  Similarly,  the  man  who 
caused  another  to  brand  a  slave  with  an  indelible 
mark  is  killed  and  buried  in  his  own  house  (§  227) 
—both  instances  apparently  treated  as  an  aggravated 
kind  of  theft  (p.  160  above).  The  summary  treat- 
ment of  the  house-breaker  is  familiar,  but  the  obje< 

1  Cp.  Rel.  Sew.™  p.  162  sq.  (esp.  n.   3),  and  Jewish  Quarterly 
Review^    1902,  p.   425.      Dareste  observes  that  the  death  penalty 
for  sacrilege  was  also  customary  in  Egypt  and  India  (Diod.  2  28 
Manu,  9  270). 

2  Cp.  the  Syro-Roman  law-book  (§  81),  where  the  Syriac  h; 
preserved  an  echo  of  the  Babylonian  wording  :  "  Those  who  make 
breaches  (palesai piilsatha)  are  condemned  to  death." 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  213 

of  burying  him  in  the  breach  is  not  clear.  The 
Assyrian  kings  on  their  death  had  the  right  to  be 
burned  and  buried  in  their  own  palaces,  and  it  was 
a  privilege  which  was  only  granted  to  ordinary 
people  by  royal  permission.1  The  theory  that  the 
dead  man's  spirit  would  protect  the  house  from 
future  burglary  is  not  without  analogy,  but  would 
apply  only  to  §  21,  and  one  is  forced  to  conclude  that 
burial  in  any  other  than  the  recognised  place  carried 
with  it  some  dreadful  humiliation.2  The  Book  of) 
the  Covenant  declares  that  the  house-owner  incurs 
no  blood-guiltiness  if  he  kills  a  thief  who  is  found 
breaking  in,  provided  it  is  before  sunrise  (Ex.  22  2), 
and  the  provision  finds  analogies  in  other  legisla- 
tions.3 It  was  permissible,  also,  in  Jeremiah's  day 
(2  34).  In  dealing  with  the  theft  of  cattle  another 
distinction  is  made  which  is  worth  noticing.  The 
thief  who  is  found  stealing  with  the  stolen  cattle 
alive  in  his  possession  must  restore  double,  whereas 
if  he  has  killed  or  disposed  of  his  booty  he  must 
restore  five  times  the  number  of  oxen  and  four 
times  the  number  of  sheep.4  If  he  has  nothing 

1  Sayce,  op.  tit.  p.  65. 

2  Dareste  {Journal des  Savants^  1902,  p.  521  n.  3)  points  out  that 
the  interment  of  the  thief  on  the  spot  is  frequently  met  with  in  the 
laws  of  the  mediaeval  age,  and  cites  Grimm,  Rechtsalterthiimer^  p.  686. 

8  Solon,  Plato,  and  the  Twelve  Tables  ;  cp.  also  the  Syro-Roman 
law-book  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  §  77).  Modern  custom  requires  an 
idemnity  even  for  the  thief  killed  at  night-time  (Jaussen,  Revue 
Bibliquey  1901,  p.  600).  It  is  possible  that  Ex.  222,  3*2  belong 
to  a  distinct  series  of  laws  on  various  forms  of  blood-feud  (Baentsch). 

4  Ex.  22  1-4.  The  ox  is  of  course  the  more  valuable  animal ;  cp 
CH,  §§  268-270,  where  the  hire  of  an  ox  is  twice  that  of  an  ass. 


214  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

wherewith  to  pay,  he  is  sold  for  his  theft  (cp.  Gen. 
44 17),  and,  according  to  Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8  2), 
becomes  the  property  of  the  robbed  man  (as  in  the 
Twelve  Tables).  But  the  thief  regained  his  freedom 
after  six  years  (cp.  pp.  164,  170  above),  although  this 
would  hardly  happen  if,  under  the  law  introduced 
by  Herod,  he  had  been  sold  to  a  foreigner  (Jos. 
Ant.  xvi.  1  i). 

Hebrew  law  does  not  order  the  thief  to  be  killed,1 
and  the  extreme  severity  of  the  Code  may  perhaps 
find  ,an  explanation  in  the  lawless  state  of  Babylonia 
at  the  time  when  Hammurabi  ascended  the  throne.2 
Death  is  the  penalty  for  robbing  a  court  official 
(§  34),  for  receiving  stolen  goods  (§  6  above,  cp.  §§ 
9-11),  for  kidnapping  (§  14),  and  for  the  man  who 
has  carried  on  highway  robbery  (§  22).  If  the  last- 
mentioned  3  has  not  been  caught  the  victim  declares 
his  loss  "  before  God,"  and  the  city  (alu)  and  governor 
(ra-bi-a-nu-um)  in  whose  district  the  robbery  took 
place  must  make  it  good  (§  23),  and  if  it  was  a  life 
(na-bi-is-tum),  they  must  pay  one  mina  of  silver  to 
his  people  (ni-si-su ;  §  24).  A  Hebrew  analogy  for 
the  undiscovered  murder  will  come  up  for  considera- 
tion later.4  In  one  case  only  does  the  Code  order  the 

1  Gen.  44  9  is  not  a  law  but  an  emphatic  protestation  of  innocence  ; 
cp.  Gunkel,  ad  loc. 

2  Or  it  may  perhaps  be  more  naturally  explained  from  his  strong 
desire  to  put  an  end  to  every  offence  that  might  lead  to  a  breach  of 
the  peace  ;  cp.  Lippert  in  Die  Nation,  28th  March  1903,  p.  404*2. 

3  He  is    distinguished   from    the    ordinary    thief   by    the    term 
7ia-ab-ba-tum. 

4  At    the   present   day    the    sheikhs    may    be    held    responsible 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  215 

hands  of  the  thief  to  be  cut  off  (§  253),  a  punishment 
which  was  frequently  inflicted  in  the  East  down  to 
quite   modern    times   and    is   still    not    unknown.1 
Finally,  we  come  down  to  two  cases  of  petty  larceny  :  \ 
the   theft   of  watering   utensils  or  a   harrow,2   the  j 
penalty  for  which  is  five  and  three  shekels  of  silver  1 
respectively  (§  259  sq.). 

It  will  presently  be  noticed  that  the  theft  of  jewels 
by  a  carrier  is  punished  by  a  fivefold  restitution 
(§  112  ;  see  also  §  12),  whilst  for  misusing  a  deposit 
apparently  twofold  is  restored  (§§  124-1 26).3  Turn- 
ing again  to  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  we  are 
reminded  of  the  five,  four,  and  twofold  restitution 
of  Hebrew  law  (Ex.  22  i,  4),  and  of  the  fourfold 
penalty  in  Nathan's  parable  (2  Sam.  12  6 ;  cp.  Lk.  19 
s).  It  is  true  that  the  Septuagint  here  reads  seven- 
fold, and  this  is  followed  by  all  critics  on  the  strength 
of  Prov.  6  31.  David,  it  is  urged,  is  more  likely  to 
have  thought  of  the  proverbial  " sevenfold"  than 
of  the  law,  and  the  reading  of  the  text  is  con- 
sequently ascribed  to  a  corrector.4  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  perhaps  reasonable  to  argue  that  the 

for    thefts    committed    by    their    tribesmen    (Doughty,    Ar.    Des. 
1  176). 

1  Burckhardt,  Ar.  Prov.  no.    550;  Doughty,  Arabia  Deserta^  2 
318  j0.,  and  Baldensperger,  PEFQ->  1897,  p.  127  sq.      (Old  offenders 
were  put  to  death  as  late  as  the  middle  of  the  last  century.) 

2  The  former,  GlS-APUfvad  GIS-APIN  TUR-KIN^  perhaps  correspond 
to  the  modern  watering-bucket  and  water-wheel  (shaduf). 

3  The  twelvefold  penalty  of  the  unrighteous  judge  has  already 
been  discussed  (CH,  §  5,  p.  66  above). 

4  Thenius   Lohr   Driver,  H.  P.  Smith,  Budde. 


216  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

heavier  penalty  for  theft  belongs  to  a  later  time.1 
At  all  events  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  the  "  sevenfold  " 
does  not  happen  to  occur  in  the  Babylonian  Code, 
nor  has  it  survived  in  later  Jewish  law,  where  the 
penalty  is  twofold  if  the  thief  has  pleaded  not  guilty, 
and  four  or  fivefold  if  he  has  stolen  an  animal  and 
disposed  of  it.  On  these  grounds,  therefore,  the 
fourfold  penalty  is  probably  to  be  preferred  in 
Nathan's  parable ;  it  was  legal,2  and  was  fixed  by 
custom,  and  has  survived  to  the  present  day  in  the 
so-called  murabbct? 

In  CH,  §  6  we  saw  that  the  receiver  of  stolen 
property  was,  like  the  thief,  condemned  to  death, 
and  it  now  remains  to  glance  at  a  small  series  of 
laws  which  deal  more  closely  with  him.  If  a  man 
lost  something  of  his  and  it  was  found  in  the  hands 
of  another,  the  accused  could  defend  himself  by 
saying  "  a  seller  sold  it  to  me,  before  witnesses  I 
bought  it " ;  and  the  owner  of  the  lost  object  could 
say,  "  I  can  bring  witnesses  who  know  my  lost 

1  Wildeboer  suggests  that  it  has  arisen  from  the  "twofold"  of 
Ex.  224  with  the  addition  of  the  "  fivefold  "  of  v.  i  ;  but  it  is  more 
probable  that  it  is  used  as  a  round  number  (cp.  Gen.  4  24 ;  so  also 
Frankenberg,  Toy). 

2  Naturally,  the  passage,  whatever  be  its  date,  is  not  evidence  of 
the  existence  of  written  laws. 

3  Jaussen  (Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  600),  observes  that  among  the 
modern  Bedouin  the  stolen  animal  must  be  restored  with  three  more 
of  the  kind.     As  mares  are  more  valuable,  and  less  easily  obtainable, 
the  stolen  animal  in  this  case  must  be  restored  together  with  a  pecuniary 
compensation.      The  fourfold  restitution  is  familiar  in  Roman  law, 
and  in  the  Syro-Roman  law-book  it  is  the  penalty  for  men  or  women 
who  receive  stolen  goods  from  slaves  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  §  79). 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  217 

property "  (mu-di  hu-ul-ki-ya-mi\  The  accused 
brings  both  the  man  from  whom  he  bought  the  lost 
article  and  the  witnesses  to  the  purchase,  and  the 
former  owner  brings  his  witnesses,  and  the  judge 
examines  their  evidence.1  The  witnesses  of  the 
purchase  on  the  one  side,  and  of  the  stolen  property 
on  the  other,  declare  all  they  know  "  before  God," 
and  the  judge  gives  his  decision.  If  the  seller  has 
been  the  thief  he  is  put  to  death,  the  former  owner 
receives  his  property,  and  the  accused  recovers  from 
the  seller's  house  the  money  he  had  paid  (§  9). 
Should  the  buyer,  the  accused  person,  be  unable  to 
produce  either  the  giver  or  the  witnesses,  whilst  the 
owner  on  his  side  has  produced  his  witnesses,  the 
buyer  is  the  thief  and  he  is  put  to  death,  and  the 
owner  takes  back  his  property  (§  10).  On  the  other 
hand,  if  the  owner  cannot  produce  the  men  who  can 
testify  to  his  property,  for  his  malevolence  and  for 
his  attempted  calumniation  he  is  put  to  death  (§  1 1).2 
This  is  followed  by  a  rather  obscure  law  whereby  if 
the  seller  has  gone  to  his  fate,  the  buyer  takes  from 
his  house  fivefold  "  as  the  penalty  of  that  case " 
(ru-gu-um-me-e  di-nim  su-a-ti;  §  12).  The  natural 
presumption  is  that  the  buyer  restores  the  property 
to  its  rightful  owner,  but  it  is  difficult  to  see  why  he 
is  entitled  to  recover  so  much,  unless  it  be  that  the 


)  written  evidence ;  cp.   Meissner's   note,   Beitr.  altbab. 
Privatrecht,  p.  121. 

2  Cp.  the  Laws  of  Manu,  9  31  sq.t  where  the  owner  must  carefully 
describe  his  lost  property,  and  if  he  be  suspected  of  making  a  false 
accusation,  he  is  liable  to  be  fined  a  sum  of  equal  value. 


218  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

seller's  death  had  placed  upon  him  the  onus  of 
proving  his  innocence.  Finally,  if  the  buyer  has 
not  been  able  to  produce  his  witnesses  the  judge 
may  adjourn  the  case  not  longer  than  six  months,1 
and  if  the  buyer  is  still  unsuccessful,  his  word  is 
disbelieved  and  he  must  bear  the  punishment  (§  13). 

This  group  of  laws,  by  reason  of  its  completeness 
and  fulness  of  detail,  throws  considerable  light  upon 
ancient  Babylonian  procedure.     The  opening  words 
of  the  first  law  (§  9)  lead  to  the  inference  that 
house  to  house  search  was  allowed  (cp.  §  16),  and  a 
contract  of  the  nineteenth  year  of  Darius  actually 
illustrates  such  a  practice.     The  temple  of  Sam; 
was   robbed   of    some   wool,    and    Bil-iddanu,    th< 
guardian,  in  whose  care  it  had  been  placed,  obtaine< 
permission  to  search  every  house.     The  suppose* 
missing  property  was  found  in  the  house  of  a  certaii 
man,  but  as  he  was  able  to  declare  his  innocence  b] 
proving  that  he  had  bought  it  in  the  presence  oi 
witnesses  he  was  released.2 

According  to  the  old  Hebrew  law  relating  to  lost 
property  found  in  the  hands  of  another  (Ex.  22  9),  ii 
every  case  where  a  man  says  "this  is  it,"  th< 
accuser  and  the  accused  come  "before  God,"  anc 
the  one  whom  God  condemns  (after  an  oath  01 
ordeal)  pays  double  to  his  neighbour.  The  accused, 
if  guilty,  makes  the  usual  twofold  restitution,  the 
accuser,  for  his  false  charge,  pays  twice  the  value  of 

1  According  to  the  Laws  of  Manu  (8  58,  cp.  107)  the  defendant  is 
allowed  three  fortnights. 

2  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Babyl  Rechtsl.  4  87. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  219 

the  property  as  compensation.1  Any  one  who  found 
lost  property  was  exhorted  to  return  it,  or,  if  he  did 
not  know  its  owner,  to  keep  it  by  him  until  it  was 
claimed.  The  owner  might  be  expected  to  publish 
his  loss,  and  the  finder  was  urged  not  to  keep  the 
matter  hid  (Deut.  22  1-3  ;  cp.  Ex.  23  4).  It  was  a 
common  custom  for  a  man  who  had  been  robbed  to 
solemnly  adjure  any  one  who  had  knowledge  of  the 
offence,  and  the  offender  in  particular,  to  come 
forward,2  and  the  Levitical  law  (Lev.  5  i),  in  touch 
with  the  morality  of  Proverbs  29  24,  requires  the 
man  who  has  heard  the  voice  of  adjuration  to  make 
known  what  he  has  seen  and  heard.  The  finder, 
according  to  Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8  29),  may  keep 
what  he  has  found  if  the  owner  cannot  be  dis- 
covered, but  must  testify  before  God  that  he  has 
not  purloined  it.  The  Levitical  code  (6  1-7)  requires 
the  man  who  has  dealt  falsely  in  the  matter  of  a  lost 
thing  (abedati),  and  has  sworn  a  lie,  to  restore  it  in 
full  with  the  addition  of  a  fifth  part  thereof,  and  to 
make  a  guilt  offering.3 

The  laws  in  the  Code  relating  to  property  in 
the  hands  of  another,  whether  hireling,  hirer,  or 
borrower,  are  characterised  by  the  care  taken  to  en- 
sure its  safety,  and  supplementing  what  has  been 
said  above  in  chap.  vii.  (pp.  175  sqq.)  of  agricultural 

1  The  law  is  a  general  parenthetical  case  which  does  not  appear 
to  come  under  the  head  of  deposits.     See  below,  p.  226,  n.  3. 

2  Cp.  Judges  172;  Zech.  5  3  ;  Wellhausen,  Arab.  Held.®  p.  192. 

3  See  further  Num.  5  5-8,  and  cp.  the  Mohammedan  laws  (Kohler, 
Rechtsvergleich.  Stud.  p.  74). 


220  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

labourers,  we  may  commence  with  the  responsibilities 
of  the  boatman.  The  boat-owner  lets  out  on  hire 
three  kinds  of  boats,  for  which  he  charges  three  $E  of 
silver,  two  and  a  half  $E  and  one-sixth  of  a  shekel  a 
day  respectively  (§§  275-277).  The  last  is  called  a 
ship  (elippu)  of  sixty  GUR  ;  the  second,  ma-hi-ir- 
turn,  a  fast  sailer  (Scheil,  Johns),  or  rowing  vessel 
(Winckler),  is  evidently  a  small  craft  since  its  hire 
is  the  smallest,1  and  the  kind  of  boat  intended  by 
the  first  law  is  unknown  owing  to  a  lacuna.  The 
boatman  (malaku)  who  navigates2  a  ship  of  sixty 
GUR  is  to  be  paid  two  shekels  of  silver  for  his  fee 
(a-na  ki-is-ti-su  ;  \  234).  If  he  has  not  made  it 
strong,  and  it  is  damaged  within  the  year,  the  boat- 
man must  exchange  the  vessel  for  another  and  give 
the  purchaser  a  strong  one  in  its  place  (§  23 5 ).3 

If  a  boatman   hires   a   vessel    and    through   his 
negligence  it  is  damaged  or  lost,4  he  must  give  the 

1  Possibly  the  circular  kufa  made  of  rushes  is  intended  ;  the  larger 
boat  may  correspond  to  the  modern  kellek  (cp.  Lehmann,  Babyloniens 
Kulturmission,  p.  63  sq.). 

2  ip-hi;  Scheil   "  calks "  (calfater) ;    Winckler  renders  the  word 
by  "build." 

3  The  renderings  differ.     Winckler  understands  that  the  builder 
must  break  up  (i-na-kar-ma)  the  damaged  vessel  and  build  a  new 
one  at  his  own  expense.     According  to  Scheil,  the  vessel  is  exchanged, 
the  builder  repairs  it  at  his  own  cost,  and  returns  the  repaired  ship 
to  the  owner ;  finally,  Johns  takes  it  to  mean  (a)  exchange  (b)  or 
repair,  and  (c)  a  strong  ship  must  be  given  to  the  owner.      In  a 
contract  of  the  twenty-sixth  year  of  Darius  we  find  the  boat-builder 
responsible  for  the  management  (?)  of  the  ship  which  he  has  sold 
(Sayce,  op.  cit.  p.  185). 

4  ut-te-bi  u  lu  uh-ta-al-li-ik)  "  has  grounded  ...  or  has  caused  it 
to  be  lost "  (Johns). 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  221 

owner  another  vessel  (§  236).  If  a  boatman  has 
been  hired  to  convey  a  cargo  of  corn,  wool,  oil, 
dates,  etc.,  and  the  vessel  is  lost  through  his 
negligence,  he  must  make  good  the  vessel  and  all 
that  was  in  it  (§  237).  If  he  has  damaged  it  or  run 
it  ashore,  and  has  succeeded  in  refloating  it,  he 
must  pay  half  its  price  (§  238).  Presumably  he  was 
ordered  to  make  good  the  damage  to  a  sum  not 
exceeding  half  its  value,  and,  as  his  hire  is  fixed  by 
the  Code  at  six  GUR  of  corn  a  year  (§  239),  the 
owner  could  probably  make  him  a  slave  in  default. 
One  other  law  relating  to  boats  comes  under  con- 
sideration. The  ship  that  runs  down  another  at 
anchor1  and  sinks  her  is  held  responsible  for  the 
loss,  and  the  owner  of  the  latter  declares  upon  oath 
(lit.  " before  God")  what  has  been  lost,  and  the 
owner  of  the  former  must  make  complete  reparation 
(§  240). 

The  extent  to  which  the  rivers  and  canals  in 
Babylonia  were  used  for  trading  purposes,  and  the 
frequent  allusions  to  cargo -boats  in  Hammurabi's 
letters  and  in  later  contracts,2  sufficiently  explain 
the  insertion  of  the  above  laws  in  the  Code  of 
Hammurabi.  Outside  Babylonia,  the  only  other 
Semitic  race  who  would  be  likely  to  frame  laws  of 

1  So  Johns  ;  but  it  is  possible  that  elippu  sa  ma-ht-tr-\tim~\  and 
elippu  sa  mu-\iik~\-ki-el~bi-tim  represent  two  distinct  kinds  of  vessels. 

2  King,  Letters,  pp.  61-67,  84,  121  sgg.,  156;  from  p.  61  it  may 
perhaps  be  inferred  that  the  captain  made  an  inventory  of  his  cargo 
before  starting  on  his  journey.     Other  interesting  details,  chiefly  from 
later  times,  are  given  by  Sayce,  op.  cit.  pp.  183-186. 


222  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

this  nature  were  the  Phoenicians,1  and  of  their  laws 
we  are  entirely  ignorant.  Even  in  the  Talmudical 
legislation  marine  insurance  is  almost  unknown,  and 
the  only  notice  is  to  the  effect  that  ship-owners  may 
agree  that  if  a  man's  vessel  is  lost  they  will  give 
him  another,  provided  the  loss  did  not  arise  through 
any  fault  of  his,  or  that  he  had  not  deviated  from 
his  proper  course.2 

If  a  man  hired  (i-gur-ma)  an  ox  or  sheep  and  it 
died  through  ill-usage  or  blows,  ox  for  ox  must  be 
returned  to  the  owner  (§  245),  and  the  same  rule 
applies  also  if  the  hirer  severely  injured  it,  either  by 
crushing  its  foot,  or  by  cutting  its  nape  (§  246). 
For  destroying  an  eye  the  hirer  paid  half  its  price 
(§  247) ;  for  breaking  its  horn,  cutting  its  tail,  or 
injuring  its  muzzle,  one-quarter  must  be  paid  (§  248). 
If  a  lion  killed  it  in  the  open  field  (si-ri-im)  the  loss 
fell  on  the  owner  (§  244),  and  if  "God  has  smitten 
it "  (i-lum  im-ha-zu-ma)  and  it  died,  the  hirer  swore 
before  God  and  was  acquitted  (§  249).3 

In  Hebrew  law  the  subject  of  injured  animalsps 
dealt  with  under  four  heads,  (a)  Injury  to  one 
animal  by  another  is  compensated  in  a  rough  and 
ready  manner  by  dividing  the  carcase  of  the  injured 
animal  and  by  selling  the  live  one  and  sharing  the 

1  Even  the  Assyrians  of  the  time  of  Sennacherib  had  recourse  to 
the  Phoenicians  (Sayce,  p.  183  ;  Canney,  EBi.  "  Ship,"  §  4)  ;  for  the 
Israelites,  see  G.  A.  Smith,  EBi.  "Trade  and  Commerce,"  §  45. 

2  Jewish    Encyclopedia^  4 194*2,    from    a    commentary    on    Baba 
Kamma,  f.  1 1 6b. 

3  Cp.  §  266,  p.  175  above. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  223 

proceeds  (Ex.  21  35).  It  is  the  custom  that  holds 
good  even  at  the  present  day,1  although  the  post- 
biblical  legislation  clearly  recognised  the  injustice 
that  might  arise  in  those  cases  where  the  injuring 
animal  was  of  little  value  (e.g.  a  goat)  compared  with 
the  one  injured.  If  the  ox  was  known  to  gore 
(naggati) — the  vicious  ox  is  the  typical  animal 
throughout — and  the  owner  had  not  kept  it  under 
restraint,  he  must  pay  ox  for  ox,  and  the  dead  beast 
becomes  his  (v.  36).  Similarly,  (b)  if  a  man  left  a  pit 
uncovered  and  an  ox  or  ass  fell  into  it  and  was 
killed,  the  owner  of  the  pit  must  make  restitution 
(yesallem,  vv.  33-340),  or,  as  the  law  proceeds  to  state 
with  greater  explicitness,  he  must  make  pecuniary 
compensation  to  the  owner  of  the  dead  beast  which 
now  becomes  his  (v.  34^).  The  amount  would  of 
course  be  based  upon  the  value  of  the  live  animal. 
Curiously  enough,  neither  of  these  laws  finds  a  place 
in  the  Code  of  Hammurabi ;  it  is  possible  that  they 
were  too  firmly  established  by  customary  usage  to 
require  to  be  mentioned  specially,  (c)  The  Hebrew 
customs  relating  to  animals  in  the  care  of  the  shep- 
herd or  hireling  have  already  been  noticed  in  chap, 
vii.  (pp.  176  sg.\  and,  as  we  have  seen,  the  legal 
principle  qui  facit  per  alium  facit  per  se  is  not  in 
accordance  with  Semitic  views,  (d)  When  borrowed 
animals  are  hurt  (nisbar)  or  die  in  the  absence  of 
the  owner,  compensation  must  be  made  ;  the  owner's 
presence  is  a  sufficient  guarantee  that  his  beasts 
suffer  no  intentional  or  negligent  injury  (Ex.  22  14, 

1  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  351. 


224  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

150).  Later  Jewish  law  understood  by  the  words 
"if  the  owner  be  with  it,"  that  the  beast  was 
borrowed  with  his  consent,  and  deals  at  greater 
length  with  the  contingencies  that  might  arise.  If 
the  animal,  whether  hired  or  borrowed,  died  in  the 
course  of  its  accustomed  work,  there  was  no  responsi- 
bility unless  the  animal  was  overdriven.  But  com- 
pensation had  to  be  made  if  through  the  negligence 
of  the  hirer  or  borrower  the  beast  became  thin  or 
ill-conditioned.1 

It  now  remains  to  notice  the  provision  relating 
to  the  saklr  appended  to  (d)  :  "  if  it  (he)  be  a  hired 
thing  (hireling)  it  is  reckoned  in  its  (his)  hire " 
(v.  i5<5).  Whatever  rendering  of  saklr  is  adopted, 
the  hire  is  obviously  an  inadequate  compensation 
for  a  dead  ox,  and  the  true  meaning  of  the  enact- 
ment is  disputed.  According  to  later  Jewish  law, 
the  borrower  usually  has  the  entire  responsibility, 
and  since  the  hireling,  too,  was  only  acquitted  when 
his  master's  possession  suffered  injury  from  irresis- 
tible causes,  it  would  appear  to  be  the  general  rule 
that  the  beast  which  died  from  negligence  or  care- 
lessness would  have  to  be  replaced.  The  most 
probable  conclusion,  therefore,  is  that  the  above 
words  refer  solely  to  the  injured  beast  (as  in  CH, 
§§  246-248),  the  compensation  for  which  would 
naturally  be  smaller  and  more  easily  recoverable. 

1  Jewish  Encyclopedia,  \  i6i£,  2  456^.  Starting  from  the  words 
"  if  the  owner  was  with  it,"  the  Jewish  law  of  later  ages  held  that  if 
an  unmarried  woman  borrowed  something,  and  afterwards  married 
without  telling  her  husband,  he  could  not  be  responsible  (Maimo- 
nides  ;  see  Jewish  Encyclopaedia,  2  4570). 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  225 

The  next  group  of  Babylonian  laws  to  be  | 
noticed  deals  with  deposits.  When  a  man  puts 
silver,  gold,  or  anything  else  on  deposit  (ma-sa-ru- 
tim)  this  must  be  done  before  witnesses  and  secured 
by  a  contract  (§  122),  and  if  the  depositor  was  a 
minor  or  servant,  the  failure  to  perform  the  trans- 
action in  the  required  legal  manner  stamped  the 
depositee  as  a  thief  and  brought  with  it  the  death 
penalty  (§  7).  If  any  transaction  has  been  made 
without  these  requirements  and  dispute  arises,  there 
is  no  legal  redress  (ru-gu-um-ma-am  u-ul  i-su  ; 
§  123).  The  Talmudic  rule  is  also  against  taking 
deposits  from  women,  slaves,  and  minors,  the 
presumption  being  that  they  are  not  the  real 
owners.1  In  any  dispute  the  depositee  is  brought 
to  account  and  must  return  the  deposit  (double? 
§  I24);2  apparently  this  deals  with  the  case  where 
the  depositary  disclaims  the  deposit. 

If  a  man  stores  corn  in  the  granary  (ga-ri-tim) 
of  another — and  the  price  is  fixed  at  five  KA  for  each 
GUR  of  corn  per  annum  (§  I2i)8 — and  some  accident 
takes  place,4  or  the  owner  removes  some  of  the  corn, 
or  there  is  a  dispute  as  to  the  amount  of  the  corn, 

1  Tosefta,  1 1 ;  Gemara  on  Baba  Kamma^  9  7  (cp.  generally B. Mes.  3). 

2  us-ta-sa-na-ma   i-na-ad-di-in    here  and    in    §  125   sq.^    perhaps 
rather  "  pay  double  and  return  "  ;  the  penalty  is  double  the  amount 
of  the  deposit  (Joh.  Jeremias,  Moses  u.  Hamm.  p.  7,  and  n.  i). 

3  I.e.  one-sixtieth  (300  KA  to  the  GUR}. 

4  The  ravages  of  mice  not  excluded  (cp.  Burckhardt,  Ar.  Prov.{^ 
no.  177).     Post-biblical  law  required  allowance  to  be  made  for  loss 
of  stored  grain  through  mice  (Vogelstein,  Landwirtschaft  in  Palds- 
tina,  1  73  [i  894]). 

15 


226  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

the  depositor,  the  owner  of  the  corn  (be-el  $ei), 
declares  the  amount  of  his  corn  "before  God,"  and 
the  owner  of  the  house  (de-el  blti)  must  restore 
(double?)  the  missing  corn  (§  120).  If  a  man  put 
anything  on  deposit,  and  through  burglary  (bi-il-si- 
im)  or  sedition  (na-ba-al-ka-at-tim)  some  of  his 
property,  together  with  that  of  the  owner  of  the 
house  (be-el  blti\  is  lost,  the  latter  must  return  it 
(?  double)  to  the  depositor  and  recover  the  goods 
from  the  thief  (§  125).  The  man  who  alleges  that 
part  of  his  deposit  has  been  lost,  or  exaggerates  the 
amount,  is  put  on  oath  "  before  God,"  and  he  (the 
depositee  ?)  must  replace  (?  double)  the  loss  (§  126). 
The  meaning  is  obscure,  and  it  is  not  absolutely 
certain  that  it  belongs  to  the  law  of  deposits.1  It 
might  seem  that  it  was  entirely  to  the  advantage  of 
any  dishonest  depositor,  but  since  the  latter  is  put 
upon  his  oath  the  possibility  of  false  swearing  is 
remote.2  The  law,  like  §  120,  is  practically  covered 
by  §  122  sq.,  and  it  is  conceivable  that  both  §§  120 
and  126  are  survivals  of  earlier  customs. 

Old  Hebrew  law  in  such  a  case  as  §  125  required 
the  thief,  if  found,  to  pay  double,  otherwise  the 
owner  of  the  house  (bctal  hab-bayitK)  must  go 
"  unto  God  "  (el  ha-elohlm)  and  swear  that  he  has 
not  touched  his  neighbour's  goods  (Ex.  22  7  sg.)* 

1  It  comes  at  the  end  of  the  group  and  is  immediately  followed 
by  laws  dealing  with  slander  and  adultery. 

2  Cp.  p.  63  above,  and  n.  i,  on  the  inviolability  of  the  oath. 

3  Ex.  22  9  [8],  on  the  other  hand,  appears  to  relate  to  lost   or 
stolen    property;    see   above,  p.   218.     If,   nevertheless,  it  actually 
belongs  to  the  law  of  deposit,  it  may  be  compared  with  CH,  §  124  ; 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  227 

By  the  Levitical  code,  the  depositee  who  deals 
falsely  in  the  matter  of  a  deposit  must  restore  in 
full,  together  with  one-fifth  of  the  amount,  and  offer 
a  guilt-offering  (Lev.  6  1-7).  In  Talmudic  times, 
the  depositee  who  declares  that  the  deposit  is  lost 
may  be  required  to  take  an  oath,  and  if  he  assents 
(by  using  the  formula  "  Amen  "),  and  it  is  found 
that  he  has  put  it  to  his  own  use,  he  simply  pays  it 
back  in  full ;  but  if  he  alleges  that  it  has  been  stolen 
by  another,  and  it  is  proved  that  he  himself  has 
stolen  it,  he  pays  back  double.1  That,  according  to 
the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  the  depositee  should  be 
called  upon  to  make  good  the  deposit  when  the  loss 
has  not  occurred  through  any  negligence  of  his 
(§  125)  is  a  harsh  rule;  the  Laws  of  Manu  (8189), 
it  will  be  remembered,  acquit  the  bailee,  provided  he 
has  not  taken  any  part  of  it  to  himself,  and  even  the 
Syro-Roman  law-book  (op.  cit.  pp.  40,  150)  frees 
him  in  cases  of  fire  or  brigandage.  Some  Hebrew 
laws  which  would  cover  cases  of  deposit  have  been 
dealt  with  above  (pp.  177  sqq.\  but  their  comparative 
simplicity  will  not  pass  unnoticed.  At  the  present 
day,  among  the  Bedouin,  the  customary  usages  are 
even  simpler ;  deposits  are  actually  made  without 
witnesses ;  they  are  preserved  by  the  receiver  as  a 
sacred  trust,  and  may  be  laid  up  in  order  to  be 
restored  to  the  heirs.2 

in  spite  of  the  similar  penalty  in  both,  the  procedure,  it  will  be 
noticed,  is  different. 

1  Baba  Kamma,  9  7. 

2  Cp.  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  176,  280,  2  301,  and  the  analogy  in  the 
Levitical  law,  Num.  5  8. 


228  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

Money  matters  in  Babylonia  were  regulated  with 
the  greatest  precision.  The  money-lenders  were 
frequently  priests  or,  more  especially,  priestesses 
who  used  the  temple -revenue.1  Coin  itself  was 
scarce,  and  both  principal  and  interest  were  often 
paid  in  kind.  The  rate  of  interest  varied  ;  sometimes 
it  was  as  high  as  twenty  pef  "cent  per  annum,  and 
in  one  case — from  the  New  Babylonian  period- 
money  was  lent  without  interest,  the  only  stipulation 
being  that  it  should  be  repaid  when  the  borrowers 
were  in  better  circumstances.2 

The  laws  in  the  Code  relating  to  debt  are  marked 
;  by  a  conspicuous  humanity  towards  the  debtor.  As 
regards  the  responsibility  of  the  wife  for  the  debts 
of  her  husband  and  vice  versd^  two  statutes  are 
framed  which  have  the  merit  of  being  extremely 
just.  If  a  woman  (zinnistu)  is  living  in  a  man's 
house,  and  her  husband  has  bound  himself  that  no 
creditor  (be-el  hu-bu-ul-lim)*  of  his  may  seize  her, 
and  has  drawn  up  a  deed  (to  this  effect),  she  can- 
not be  held  responsible,  and  is  safe,  provided  the 
debt  was  contracted  before  the  marriage  (§  151).* 

1  In  the  Code  the  money-lender  is  always  called  the  merchant 
(damgaru,  i.q.  Aram,  taggar). 

2  See  generally   Sayce,  op.  tit.  chap,  vii.,  and  the  numerous  con- 
tracts, especially  in  KB  4. 

8  Lit.  owner  (holder)  of  a  pledge  or  debt ;  as  opposed  to  mare 
ha-ab-lum,  debtors  (King,  Letters,  no.  x.  p.  27  ;  cp.  ib.  p.  24,  note). 

4  C.  F.  Lehmann  (Babyloniens  Kultur mission,  Leipzig,  1903, 
p.  54  sq.}  suspects  that  the  law  is  a  modification  of  older  usage 
whereby  the  wife  might  be  held  responsible  for  all  the  husband's 
debts  ;  cp.  CH,  §  1 17.  For  a  law  in  later  Jewish  times,  see  above, 
p.  224,  n.  i. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  229 

Similarly,  the  husband  cannot  be  taken  by  his 
wife's  creditor  if  she  had  contracted  a  debt  before 
he  took  her  (ib.).  On  the  other  hand,  they  share 
the  responsibility  if  they  have  run  into  debt  since 
"the  woman  came  to  (i-ru-bu)  the  man's  house," 
and  both  of  them  must  answer  (apalu,  §  152). 

If  a  man  contracted  a  debt  (e-hi-il-tiim  is-ba-zu- 
mu)  and  sold  his  wife,  son,  or  daughter,  or  gave 
them  over  to  work  it  off  (a-na  ki-is-sa-a-tim  it-ta-an- 
di-in),  for  three  years  they  work  in  the  house  of 
their  buyer  or  exploiter  (ka-H-si-su-nu}  and  in  the 
fourth  year  he  (the  latter  ?)  shall  restore  them  to 
their  former  condition 1  (§  1 1 7).  The  male  or 
female  slave  handed  over  for  a  similar  purpose 
passed  entirely  out  of  his  hands  (§  118),  but  if  it 
was  a  female  slave  who  had  been  a  concubine  he 
was  obliged  to  redeem  her  (i-pa-dar)  at  the  price  he 
had  received  (§  ii9).2 

The  creditor  was  not  allowed  to  abuse  his  powers. 
The  man  who  took  an  ox  on  distraint  (a-na  ni-bu-tim 
it-te-bi} 3  was  condemned  to  pay  one-third  of  a  mina 
of  silver  (§  241),  and  he  who  unlawfully  distrained 
the  corn  of  another  was  liable  to  the  same  penalty 
for  each  offence  (§  114).  Even  if  a  man  owed  corn 
or  money,  and  the  creditor,  without  (the  consent  of) 
its  owner,  removed  corn,  he  was  to  be  put  to  judg- 

1  dura™,  cp.  p.  159,  n.  i,  freedom  from  service;  cp.  Heb.  deror, 
used  of  the  liberty  of  the  Sabbatical  year  for  captives  or  men  enslaved 
through  debt,  and  for  the  return  of  property  to  its  original  owner 
(Lev.  25  10,  Is.  61  i,  Jer.  34  8,  15,  17,  Ezek.  46  17). 

2  Cp.  above,  p.  161. 

3  nibutim,  one  taken  away  by  force  (nabil,  to  seize). 


230  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

ment,  and  was  compelled  to  restore  all  that  he  had 
taken,  and  whatsoever  he  had  given  (i.e.  the  amount 
of  the  debt)  he  forfeited  (§  113).  If  the  creditor 
had  levied  a  distraint,  and  the  distrainee  died  in  his 
house  by  a  natural  death  (i-na  si-ma-ti-sa  im-tu-uf), 
no  claim  could  be  made  (§  115);  but  if  he  died  by 
rough  usage,  the  owner  had  a  claim  upon  the  dis- 
trainer,  and  if  it  was  the  son  of  a  free -man  the 
distrainer's  son  was  put  to  death,  or  if  a  slave,  one- 
third  of  a  mina  of  silver  was  paid  as  compensation  ; 
in  either  case  the  distrainer  also  forfeited  the  debt 

(§»6> 

The  man  who  had  a  debt   (hu-bu-ul-luni)  upon 

him,  and  lost  the  produce  of  his  field  by  a  storm  (ilu 
Adad)  or  through  drought,  was  freed  from  paying 
his  creditor  for  the  current  year,  his  contract  was 
altered,1  and  no  interest  (si- ib- turn)  was  due  from 
him  (§  48). 

A  law  which  probably  once  found  a  place  in  the 
Code  (in  the  lacuna  between  §§  65  and  100),  but  is 
now  only  known  from  later  fragments,  allows  the 
man  who  owes  corn  or  silver  but  has  not  the  where- 
withal to  pay,  to  produce  his  goods  before  witnesses 
and  to  give  them  to  the  merchant  for  the  debt,  and 

1  dup-pa-su  u-ra-ad-da-ab)  properly,  his  tablet  is  wiped  out. 
Strictly  speaking,  the  tablet  that  was  cancelled  was  broken  in  pieces 
(§  37),  and  Winckler  suggests  that  the  phrase  in  the  above  law  is 
symbolical  of  the  cause  which  made  it  impossible  for  the  debtor  to 
fulfil  his  contract.  In  the  Syro- Roman  law-book  no  allowance  is 
made  for  variation  in  the  price  of  corn,  etc.,  owing  to  an  unfruitful 
year,  when  the  debt  is  in  kind,  unless  provision  had  been  made  for  it 
in  the  contract  (Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  tit.  p.  73,  §  82). 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  231 

the  merchant  must  take  them,  doubtless  at  the 
valuation  which  the  witnesses  had  made.1  From 
another  missing  law,2  it  appears  that  a  debtor  could 
not  give  his  merchant  a  garden  of  dates  for  his  debt, 
but  must  pay  the  money  and  its  interest  from  the 
produce  according  to  the  wording  of  his  contract. 
The  surplus  of  the  dates  naturally  belongs  to  the 
owner,  and  the  law  is  presumably  intended  to  pre- 
vent the  alienation  of  landed  estate.  A  small 
series  of  laws  in  the  Code  deal  more  closely  with 
securities  for  debts.  According  to  §  49  a  debtor 
might  hand  over  a  field  to  be  planted  with  corn  or 
sesame  and  require  the  merchant  to  cultivate  it  and 
take  to  himself  the  produce.  The  field  is  thus 
security  for  the  debt,  and  at  harvest-time  the  debtor 
repays  the  merchant  in  corn  or  sesame  for  the  money 
and  its  interest,  and  pays  an  additional  sum  for  the 
expenses  of  the  cultivator  (ma-na-ha-at  e-ri-si-im). 
If  the  cultivator  neglects  the  field  and  fails  to  grow 
corn  or  sesame,  the  debtor's  contract  is  not  annulled 
(§  52) — that  is  to  sav>  neither  the  creditor  nor  the 
debtor  suffer  in  any  way  through  his  failure  to  per- 
form his  duty.  If  the  field  was  already  cultivated, 
only  the  amount  of  the  debt  and  its  interest  was  to 
be  returned  to  the  merchant,  naturally  there  was 
no  need  to  make  any  additional  payment  for  the 
expenses  incurred  by  the  creditor  in  cultivating  it 
(§  50).  If  the  debtor  is  unable  to  repay  in  money, 
the  sesame  (or  corn)  is  valued  according  to  the  tariff 

1  Scheil,  p.  52  ;  Winckler,  p.  19  (c] ;  Johns,  p.  59  (z). 

2  Scheil,  p.  49  ;  Winckler,  p.  18  (a)  ;  Johns,  p.  58  (x). 


232  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

of  the  king  (a-na  pi  si-im-da-at  sar-ri-im)  and  given 
to  the  merchant  (§  51). 

The  debts,  it  will  be  observed,  are  mostly  for 
money  lent;  the  repayments  are  in  kind.  Money 
does  not  appear  to  be  in  universal  use,  a  state  of 
conditions  which  reminds  us  of  the  society  reflected 
in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant.  The  debts  are 
usually  repaid  at  harvest-time l  and  the  creditor  not 
unfrequently  holds  prior  right  to  the  first-fruits. 
The  creditor  cannot  legally  take  a  man's  garden  or 
field  for  a  debt,  but  he  may  hold  it  as  security,  and 
as  long  as  the  debt  is  unpaid  he  remains  in  posses- 
sion of  it.2  Forcible  seizure  was  not  tolerated,  and  a 
letter  of  Hammurabi  shows  the  king  intervening  in 
a  case  where  a  money-lender  had  taken  the  land  and 
crops  of  his  debtor  Lalum.  The  latter's  right  to 
possession  is  proved  by  a  tablet  in  the  palace  which 
ascribes  to  him  two  6^;vof  land,3  and  the  king  orders 
an  investigation  to  be  made,  and  if  the  money-lender 
took  it  on  pledge  (ik-bu-n[_l§,  Lalum's  pledge  is  to 
be  restored  and  the  money-lender  punished.4 
•  Money  matters  in  early  Israel  were  on  a  simpler 
I  scale,  and  the  laws,  few  as  they  are,  regard  the 

1  So  also  in  later  Babylonia  when  money  was  more  generally  used, 
a  survival  of  earlier  times.     Payment  at  harvest-time  is  still  required 
(Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  2  113). 

2  CH,  §§  49  sqq.  ;  cp.  Meissner,  op.  cit.  p.  9.  183. 

3  For  the  tabulation  of  land  in  registers,  cp.  above,  p. 

4  King,  Letters,  no.  ix.  p.  24  sq.     Lalum  is  an  official  (KADUR\ 
and  it  is  conceivable  that  his  case  would  come  under  the  laws  relating 
to  the  gangers  (cp.  CH,  §  38,  and  above,  p.  184  sqq.~).    In  no.  x.  there 
is  another  case  of  the  illegal  detention  of  property  by  a  money-lender. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  233 

debtor  as  the  victim  of  misfortune  and  one  who  was 
not  to  be  treated  oppressively.  In  spite  of  this 
humane  ideal  the  sale  of  defaulters  was  customary 
even  in  Elisha's  time  (2  Kings  4  i),  and  fugitives 
were  doubtless  numerous  at  all  periods  (cp.  I  Sam. 
222).  Under  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  the  debtor 
would  be  released  in  the  seventh  year  (contrast  CH, 
§  117  above),  and  the  Deuteronomic  code  goes 
further,  and  remits  the  debt  at  the  same  time  (Deut. 
15).1  The  statute  was  naturally  impracticable  in 
real  life  (cp.  Jer.  34s  sqq.\  and  was  replaced  in  the 
post- exilic  legislation  by  the  institution  of  the 
"Jubilee"  (Lev.  25  35  sqq)?  As  is  also  the  case 
among  the  Bedouin  of  the  present  day,3  no  usury  was 
to  be  taken  by  an  Israelite  from  his  countryman 
(Ex.  22  25-27) ;  the  gratitude  of  the  needy  debtor, 
explains  Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8  25  sq.),  should  be  a 
sufficient  reward.4 

1  The  law  is   more  ideal  than  practical,  and  the  modern  view 
that  the  debt  was  merely  suspended  for  one  year  (cp.  CH,  §  48)  has 
certainly  inherent  probability  in  its  favour ;  cp.  the  discussion  of  the 
question  in  Driver,  Deut.  pp.  178  sqq.     At  all  events  we  read  of  a 
complete  remission  of  debts  in  the  time  of  Nehemiah  (chap.  5  ;  on 
v.  ii  see  Bertholet,  ad  loc.y  and  Buhl,  op.  cit.  p.  102). 

2  Cf.  Benzinger,  EBi.  "Law  and  Justice,"  §  16,  and  " Jubilee." 
In  Egypt  bodily  distraint  was  forbidden  under  the  code  of  Bocchoris 
(Diod.  1  79). 

3  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  318. 

4  Of  the  two  words  for  interest,  tarblth  is  the  natural  increase 
whilst    ntsek    (lit.    bitten    off)    might   suggest    an    unfair    additional 
imposition  (cp.  Syr.  tarbttha  and  tuka\     Buhl  (Socialen  Verhdltnisse  d. 
Israeliten,  p.  98,  n.  2)  suggests  that  the  latter  is  the  discount  upon  the 
money  lent,  "  bitten  out  "  of  the  principal ;  this  is  supported  by  the 
etymology  of  the  Syr.  term  kesasa. 


234  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

The  creditor  who  ensured  the  repayment  of  a 
debt  by  demanding  a  pledge1  must  not  abuse  his 
power.  The  laws  attached  to  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant  required  the  pledge,  if  a  garment,  to  be 
returned  at  nightfall  (Ex.  2226^.;  cp.  Prov.  20  16, 
27  13).  The  Deuteronomic  code  not  only  requires 
the  garment  to  be  given  back  to  the  needy  debtor 
at  night,  but  also  forbids  the  mill  for  grinding  the 
daily  corn  to  be  taken  as  a  pledge  (Deut.  246,  12  sq.  17). 
In  all  probability  these  are  typical,  and  the  code 
understands  therein  all  that  serves  for  the  preparation 
of  food  or  for  the  protection  of  the  body.2  Common 
custom  had  doubtless  agreed  what  things  it  was 
proper  for  the  creditor  to  take,  but  usage  had  not 
the  authority  of  law,  and  whilst  in  Israel  the 
complaint  was  that  the  iniquitous  "drive  away  the 
orphan's  ass,"  and  "take  the  widow's  ox  for  a 
pledge  "  (Job  24  3),  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  tersely 
and  pointedly  orders  that  "  if  a  man  has  distrained 
an  ox  he  shall  pay  one-third  of  a  mina  of  silver" 
(§  241).  Deut.  24io^.  enacts  further  that  the 
creditor  must  not  enter  the  debtor's  house  to  take 
his  pledge  ;  presumably,  therefore,  he  was  also 
obliged  to  accept  whatever  was  offered.3  Land  was 


,  Gen.  8817-20,  the  Canaanite  term  ;  cd£d/(Deut  24  12  sq.) 
may  be  of  Aramaic  origin  (Wellhausen,  Kleinen  Prophelen,  p.  168  sq.}, 
in  which  case  it  may  be  ultimately  derived  from  Ass.  sibittu.  habal 
perhaps  means  primarily  to  seize  a  personal  object  by  force  (cp.  Buhl, 
I.e.  and  Amer.  Journ.  of  Theol.  1  728  sqq.\  and  later,  to  pledge 
(?  through  Assyrian  influence). 

2  Cp.  Mishnah,  Baba  Mes.  9  ;  Bruns  and  Sachau,  pp.  34  (§  112), 
281  sq.       8  Cp.,  perhaps,  the  Babylonian  law  cited  above,  p.  230  sq. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  235 

also  given  as  security,  and  the  creditor  probably  had 
the  usufruct  until  the  debt  was  paid,  and  with 
rapacious  creditors  the  unfortunate  defaulters  speedily 
lost  possession  of  their  estates  (Job  20 19,  Neh.  5  ;  cp. 
Gen.  47).  Securityship  was  common  enough  in  late 
times,  to  judge  by  the  warnings  in  the  Wisdom 
Literature  (Prov.  6  1-5,  11 15,  17  18,  etc.),  but  it  is 
noteworthy  that  it  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
based  upon  a  written  contract  but  was  entered  upon 
by  the  striking  of  the  hands.1  Finally,  imprisonment 
for  debt  was  not  a  native  institution  but  probably  of 
Roman  origin  (Matt.  625  sg.)2 

The  more  prominent  part  taken  by  Israelites 
in  trade  and  commerce  at  a  later  day  finds  an 
illustration  in  a  recently  edited  Aramaic  papyrus  from 
South  Egypt,  containing  a  legal  document  probably 
of  the  Persian  age.3  It  relates  to  a  debt,  and  from 
the  character  of  the  names  it  is  inferred  that  the 
creditor  is  a  Jewish  banker  or  money-lender.  The 
interest  is  at  the  rate  of  two  h-l-r  per  s-z  per  month, 
and  if  not  paid  punctually,  it  was  to  be  added  to  the 
principal  and  both  were  to  bear  interest.  A  n-b-z 
(receipt  ?)  was  to  be  written  out  for  all  money  and 
interest  received,  and  if  the  debt  was  not  paid  off  by 
a  certain  date,  the  debtor  was  to  be  held  liable  to 
double  the  amount.  Whether  s-z  is  the  Babylonian 

1  Cp.  above,  p.  209. 

2  In  Arabia  also  it  was  due  to  foreign  origin. — G.  Jacob,  Leben 
vorislam.  Beduinen,  p.  165  (Berlin,  1895). 

3  A.  E.  Cowley,  Proceedings  Soc.  BibL  Arch.  1903,  pp.  202-208  ; 
G.  A.  Cooke,  North  Semitic  Inscriptions,  pp.  404-407  (Oxford,  1903). 


236  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

soss,  and  h-l-r  the  Babylonian  kalluru,1  is  uncertain, 
and  the  correct  meaning  of  n-b-z  is  quite  obscure ; 
at  all  events,  it  is  worth  noticing  that  the  terms  for 
"  principal"  and  "  interest"  are  Canaanite.2 

Money  matters  are  naturally  treated  with  greater 
fulness  in  the  legislation  of  the  Mishna  and  the 
Talmud,  and,  still  later,  in  the  Syro- Roman  law- 
I  book.  The  last-mentioned  has  preserved  a  statute 
of  Babylonian  origin,  though  with  Roman  analogies, 
which  is  interesting  enough  to  be  quoted  in  full.8 
"  If  a  man  give  another  a  piece  of  land  as  a 
pledge,  and  it  is  agreed  that  the  lender  shall  take 
the  produce  in  return  for  the  interest  (Syr.  rebbltha) 
of  his  money,  it  is  legitimate  ;  if  a  man  give  an  ass  or 
mare  as  a  pledge,  the  lender  may  agree  with  the 
borrower  that  the  animal  may  be  worked  for  the 
interest,  but  the  young  ones  that  are  born  belong  to 
the  owner  of  the  pledge ;  if  a  man  give  a  flock  of 
sheep  or  goats  for  a  pledge,  and  it  is  agreed  that  the 
produce  of  the  flock  shall  be  for  interest,  it  is 
legitimate ;  the  wool  is  for  interest,  the  young  ones 
for  the  hire  and  maintenance  of  the  hireling  and  the 
sheep-dogs.  The  increase  of  the  flock  makes  up  for 
those  which  die,  and  the  number  thereof  remains  for 
the  owner ;  so,  if  a  man  gives  his  companion  a 
maid-servant  for  a  pledge  and  there  is  a  vo/j^j  that 
she  shall  work  for  him,  this  shall  be  in  place  of  the 
interest  of  the  money  which  her  master  borrowed. 

1  halluru  (kaspi),  some  small  amount :  so  Muss-Arnolt. 

2  Viz.  r--s,  and  m-r-b-th. 
3  See  Bruns  and  Sachau,    op.  tit.  pp.  29  (§  99),  274. 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  237 

But  if  there  shall  be  children  to  her,  they  are  to  be 
her  master's  who  borrowed  (the  loan).     For  a  human 
being  is  not  like  the  earth,  for  the  grace  of  God 
causes  fruits  to  spring  forth  from  the  earth  for  the 
sake  of  mankind  generally."     The  principle  of  the  \ 
antichretic  pledge  was  too   familiar   in    Babylonia, 
especially  in  the  New  Empire,1  to  render  it  necessary  [ 
to  assume  that  the  law  was  introduced  from  Rome.     / 

It  is  not  until  a  comparatively  late  period  that  the 
Israelites  appear  to  have  emulated  the  Phoenicians 
by  undertaking  journeys  for  business  purposes  (Prov. 
7  19  sq.j  Tob.  9  2,  Matt.  13  45),  a  striking  contrast 
to  Babylonia,2  where  the  laws  of  the  relations 
between  merchants  and  their  agents  presuppose  the 
long  existence  of  trading  by  caravans  or  "  travellers." 
The  agent3  takes  with  him  money,  for  which  he 
must  be  security  ;  he  must  agree  not  to  act  on  behalf 

1  Cp.  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Bab.  Rechtsleben,  1  15  (1890),  and  Kohler, 
Beit.  z.  Assyr.  4427.     (In  Cyrus,  no.  252,  two  slaves  form  the  pledge  ; 
their  labour  pays  for  the  interest,  and  their  persons  are  security  for 
the  debt.) 

2  The  Canaanite  term  is  soker  (Heb.   and  Punic),  a  trader  or 
merchant  (e/xTropos),  as  contrasted  with  the  moker^  seller  (7rwA?/s) ; 
cp.  G.  A.  Smith,  EBi.  col.  5194  (b.  i.) ;    Clermont-Ganneau,  Recueil 
d?  Archtologie    Orient.    5  316    (1903).       A    more    specific    term    is 
sursur  (pronunc.    uncertain),  upon    a    Phoenician    inscription    from 
Citium,  of   the    fourth    century  B.C.,   wherein  we  find  a  "chief  of 
the  brokers,"  whose  office  was  hereditary ;  see  G.  A.  Cooke,  North 
Semitic  Inscriptions •,  p.  70  sq. 

8  SAGAN-LAL,  explained  elsewhere  by  nas  $u  sa  abni,  "he  who 
carries  the  bag  (ktsu)  of  stones  "  (cp.  Heb.  use  of  kis  and  abanlm). 
The  ideogram  is  to  be  read  samallu^  sawallil^  and  appears  to  be  the 
Talm.  and  Mand.  sewalya,  "  pupil,"  etc.  (Beitr.  z.  Assyr.  4  83). 


238  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ix 

of  any  other  merchant,  and  all  profits  are  to  be 
shared  according  to  the  bonds.1  The  laws  in  the 
Code  are  incomplete  owing  to  the  erasure,  and  the 
commencement  of  the  first  is  missing.  The  agent 
or  trader  is  answerable  to  the  merchant  (dam-gar) 
for  the  money  he  takes  with  him  on  his  journeys 
and  the  interest  thereof  (§  100),  and  if  in  the  course 
of  his  travelling  he  has  found  no  luck,  he  must  pay 
back  the  amount  borrowed  (§  101).  If  the  merchant 
gave  him  money  as  a  favour  (?  a-na  ta-ad-mi-ik-tim), 
and  the  agent  suffers  loss  (bi-ti-ik-tum)  in  his  journey, 
he  must  return  the  sum  (ga-ga-ad)  to  the  merchant 
(§  102).  The  last-mentioned  law  presupposes  actual 
loss  in  the  transaction,  and  the  agent  is  therefore 
bound  to  return  the  bonus  which  he  had  received, 
together  with  the  capital.2  The  agent  who  is  robbed 
on  the  road  (har-ra-nam)  by  an  enemy  can  swear 
(his  innocency)  by  the  name  of  God  (ni-i$  i-lim  i-za- 
kar-ma),  and  goes  free  (§  103).  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  merchant  gives  the  agent  corn,  wool,  oil, 
or  any  other  thing  to  sell,  the  agent  must  draw  up 
an  invoice  and  hand  it  over  to  the  merchant,  and 
take  from  the  latter  a  receipt  (ka-ni-ik  kaspi ;  §  104 
sq)?  If  the  agent  receives  money  from  the  mer- 
chant, and  the  latter  disputes  (the  amount  ?),  the 
merchant  puts  the  agent  to  account  before  God  and 

1  Kohler  and  Peiser,  Bab.  Rechtsleben,  3  47. 

2  That  this  is  the  true  meaning  of  the  law  is  not  certain. 

3  It  is  not  clear  what  happens  when  the  agent  neglects  to  take  a 
receipt  (§  105) :  a-na  ni-ik-ka-az-zi-im  u-ul  is-sa-ak-ka-in, — according 
to  Johns,  "  he  shall  not  put  in  his  accounts." 


CHAP,  ix  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE  239 

witnesses,  and  the  agent  pays  the  money  threefold 
(§  1 06).  The  merchant  who  wrongs  an  agent,  and 
disputes  with  him  the  amount  he  has  received,  is 
dealt  with  in  a  similar  manner  and  is  condemned 
to  pay  sixfold  (§  107).  The  double  penalty  is  in 
accordance  with  the  graduated  system  of  punish- 
ment which  prevails  throughout  the  Code.  It  is 
not  easy  to  see  how  disputes  could  arise,  when, 
according  to  §  104  sq.,  the  agent  must  give  the 
merchant  a  receipt,  unless  perhaps  the  last -men- 
tioned laws  are  new.1  Finally,  if  the  merchant  is 
away  on  a  journey,  and  sends  silver,  gold,  precious 
stones,  or  "  treasure  of  his  hand  " 2  by  transport  and 
the  carrier  keeps  them,  he  is  put  to  account  and  is 
ordered  to  return  fivefold  to  the  owner  (§  112). 

According  to  the  Talmudical  law,  all  benefits 
resulting  from  the  execution  of  agency  are  shared 
between  the  principal  and  the  agent,  and  the  latter 
is  responsible  for  damages  and  loss,  except  in  the 
case  of  vis  major?  In  the  Syro- Roman  law-book, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  is  laid  down  that  if  the  agent 
and  the  principal  agree  to  share  the  profits  equally, 
the  agent's  responsibility,  in  case  of  loss,  extends 
only  to  half  the  amount  received.4 

1  The  verbal  evidence  "before  God"  in  §  106  sq.,  as  opposed  to 
§  104  sg.,  suggests  that  there  is  no  written  evidence. 

2  bi-is  ga-ti-su,  i.e.  a  personal  ornament. 

3  L.  M.  Simmons,  "  Talmudical  Law  of  Agency,"  Jewish  Quarterly 
Review,    8  614-631   (1896);    for   an    abstract   of  the  Mohammedan 
principles,  see  Kohler,  Rechtsvergleich.  Stud.  pp.  81  sqq. 

4  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  73  (§  82). 


CHAPTER   X 

PROTECTION    OF   THE    PERSON 

The  king — Kidnapping — Witchcraft  and  sorcery — Responsibilities  of 
the  builder — Of  the  doctor  and  veterinary — Traces  in  Syrian 
law — Principles  of  the  jus  talionis — Modifications — Assaults 
upon  men — Assaults  upon  women — Manslaughter  and  murder 
— The  unknown  murderer — E  volution  of  the  talio — Stage  reached 
by  the  Code  of  Hammurabi — Individual  responsibility. 

A  NUMBER  of  laws  relating  to  damages  of  various  kinds 
have  come  up  for  notice  in  the  course  of  the  preced- 
ing pages,  and)  it  now  remains  to  undertake  a  general 
survey  of  the  various  methods  by  which  the  safety 
of  the  person  was  secured.  We  shall  find  that  the 
Code  of  Hammurabi  is  particularly  rich  in  this 
respect,  and  that  some  extremely  minute  precau- 
tions were  taken  to  fix  the  responsibility  for  accident 
or  loss  of  life  upon  the  guilty  party.  The  king's 
safety  is  secured  in  the  well-being  of  his  subjects, 
but  there  is  one  statute  which  may  probably  be 
regarded  as  aimed  against  high  treason.  The 
taverns,  as  we  have  seen,  were  kept  by  women, 
and  evidently  were  not  regarded  as  places  to  which 
respectable  people  would  resort  (above,  p.  150),  and 

240 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  241 

the  Code  orders  that  if  rebels  (sa-ar-ru-tim)  have 
collected  in  her  house,  the  wine-seller  must  seize  and 
drive  them  off  to  the  palace-guard,  under  fear  of  the 
penalty  of  death  (§  109).  Apart  from  this,  the  king 
does  not  come  under  consideration,  except  in  so  far 
as  his  interests  may  be  said  to  be  protected  by 
the  laws  relating  to  the  royal  messengers  (pp.  184 


Theft  of  persons,  whether  for  enslavement  or  any" 
other  purpose,  was  a  capital  offence  in  Babylonia  as 
also  in  Israel.1  The  Code  (CH,  §  14)  applies  the 
law  to  the  son  of  a  freeman  (mar  a-wi-lim),  whilst 
the  Book  of  the  Covenant  is  wider  in  its  scope,  and, 
uses  the  general  term  "man"  (zs,  Ex.  21 16).  The 
Deuteronomic  code  restricts  the  offence  to  Israelites 
only  (Deut.  24  7),  a  noteworthy  illustration  of  the 
changed  conditions  of  its  time.  The  earlier  col- 
lection in  Exodus  practically  applies  only  to  the 
Hebrews,  and  the  law  therefore  requires  no  ex- 
planatory specification.  By  the  end  of  the  seventh 
century,  however,  Israel's  horizon  had  been  con- 
siderably extended,  and  dealings  with  foreign  powers 
and  the  growth  of  new  conditions  had  made  slavery 
a  recognised  institution.  The  later  code,  realising 
this,  is  forced  to  confine  the  prohibition  to  members 
of  the  chosen  race. 

The  man  who  tied  a  magical  spell  (u-ub-bi-ir-ma) } 
and  put  a  ban  (ne-ir-tum)  upon  another  and  could/ 
not  justify  himself  (la  uk-ti-in-su)  is  put  to  death' 
(§  i).  If  a  man  put  a  charm  (ki-is-bi)  upon  another 

1  Cp.  also  the  Syro- Roman  law-book,  op.  tit.  p.  244  (§  78). 

16 


242  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

and  could  not  justify  himself  the  case  is  left  for  the 
river-god  (ilu  naru)  to  decide.  The  man  upon 
whom  the  spell  is  cast — not  the  wizard — plunges 
into  the  holy  river,  and  if  it  overcomes  him,  the 
weaver  of  spells  takes  over  the  victim's  house,  but 
if  the  ordeal  shows  him  to  be  innocent  and  preserves 
him  (is-ta-al-ma-am),  the  wizard  is  put  to  death  and 
his  house  is  taken  by  the  victim  (§  2).1  With  these 
laws  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  commences,  and  their 
prominent  position  is  perhaps  an  indication  of  the 
importance  attached  to  them.  To  understand  their 
motive  one  has  only  to  realise  the  prevalence  of 
magical  practices  in  Babylonia.  Pain,  illness,  and 
even  death  itself  were  held  to  be  due  to  the  malig- 
nant energy  of  spells  worked  by  demons  or  human 
beings.  The  latter,  more  commonly  women,  in- 
flicted all  kinds  of  ills  by  means  of  magical  formulae, 
by  loathsome  potions,  or  by  the  use  of  sympathetic 
magic.  The  last-mentioned  frequently  took  the  form 
of  magical  knot-tying,  and  it  is  possible  that  this  is 
intended  in  the  first  law  (§  i).  The  second  (§  2) 
evidently  implies  a  more  terrible  form  of  enchant- 
ment, but  its  precise  nature  can  only  be  speculated.2 
The  evils  which  befall  the  unhappy  victim  may  have 
been  sent  as  punishments  for  sins — whether  of  omis- 
sion or  commission, — and  the  lengthy  list  of  cere- 
monial and  ethical  transgressions  preserved  in  a 
seventh -century  tablet  is  a  striking  illustration  of 
the  advanced  conceptions  ruling  in  Assyria,3  and 

1  Cp.  above,  p.  64.  2  Possibly  a  magical  drug. 

3  King,  Babylonian  Religion,  pp.  218  sqq.j  see  below,  p.  277  sq. 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  243 

suggests  that  the  wizard  even  of  Hammurabi's  time 
would  find  little  difficulty  in  justifying  his  spells. 

Laws  directed  against  sorcery  are  general,  and" 
are  not  absent  from  the  early  Hebrew  collections. 
Among  the  exhortations  accompanying  the  Book  of 
the  Covenant  is  one  aimed  at  the  extirpation  of  / 
witches  (mekassephah ;  Ex.  22  is),  and  the  wording 
("thou  shalt  not  let  live")  may  be  taken  to  imply, 
that  the  witch  might  be  killed  out  of  hand  without 
resort  to  judicial  procedure.1  Deut.  18  10  sq.  pre- 
sents a  full  list  of  forbidden  practices  coming  under 
this  head,  and  along  with  the  sorcerer  (mekasZepK) 
includes  the  charmer,  or  weaver  of  magic  spells 
(hober  htber).  The  absence  of  all  mention  of  a 
penalty  severs  the  Deuteronomic  code  from  both 
Ex.  22  18  and  the  Law  of  Holiness,  where  stoning  is 
inflicted  upon  those  who  indulge  in  magical  practices 
(Lev.  2027). 

That  both  Israel  and  Babylonia  should  have 
endeavoured  to  protect  individuals  from  sorcery 
occasions  no  surprise,  and  the  only  question  is  to 
what  extent  the  punishments  were  actually  put  into 
practice.  That  Saul  expelled  and  "cut  off"  all 
sorcerers  from  the  land  of  Israel  (i  Sam.  283,  9,  21) 
is  a  statement  due  to  a  writer  who  was  at  least 
contemporary  with,  if  not  later  than,  the  Book  of 
the  Covenant.  In  Babylonia,  too,  death  by  burning/ 

1  Cp.  Holzinger,  ad  loc.  Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8  34)  finds  in  the 
verse  a  prohibition  against  keeping  drugs,  fatal  or  harmful,  and 
assumes  that  the  man  who  is  caught  is  to  be  put  to  death  and  suffer 
the  pain  he  would  have  brought  upon  his  victim. 


244  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

\ 
was  regarded  as  the  only  appropriate  penalty  for 

witchcraft,  but  Zimmern  observes  that  it  cannot  yet 
be  clearly  made  out  whether  it  was  ever  put  into 
effect.1  It  seems  certain,  however,  that  the  victim 
might  retaliate  by  burning  the  effigy  of  the  witch 
before  the  image  of  the  deity  whose  help  he  implored; 
but  this  is  only  sympathetic  magic.  The  laws  were 
probably  more  ideal  than  practicable,  and  in  spite 
of  condemnations  magical  practices  were  never  up- 
rooted in  Israel  but  continued  to  flourish  down  to 
Talmudical  times. 

A  small  group  of  laws  relates  to  the  responsi- 
bilities of  the  builder  (banu).  Houses  were  let  on 
lease  yearly  or  for  a  period  of  years  up  to  eight. 
They  were  to  be  kept  in  repair  by  the  tenant,  who 
was  responsible,  also,  for  damage  caused  by  fire  or 
any  other  accident.2  As  was  often  the  case  in 
paying  salaries,  a  deposit  was  paid  down,  and  the 
rest  became  due  at  the  expiration  of  the  time  agreed 
upon.  The  Code  of  Hammurabi  probably  contained 
a  number  of  laws  in  the  five  erased  columns  applying 
to  tenants,  but  only  one  of  them,  from  the  time  of 
Asurbanipal,  has  been  preserved  complete.3  Here, 
if  the  occupier  (a-wi-lum  as-6u-ta-[am])  has  paid  the 
entire  rent  (kasap  kisri-\_su~§  for  the  year,  and  the 
owner  of  the  house  orders  him  to  leave  before  the 
days  are  fulfilled,  the  money  which  the  tenant  paid 
him  (he  must  restore).  The  tablet  being  imperfect, 

1  Zimmern,  EBi.  "  Magic,"  §  2b. 

2  Sayce,  op.  cit.  pp.  114  sqq. ;  Meissner,  op.  tit.  p.  1 1  sq. 
3  Scheil,  p.  51  ;  Winckler,  p.  18;  Johns,  p.  58  (Y). 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  245 

it  is  uncertain  whether  the  landlord  is  required  to 
return  the  whole  of  the  amount  or  only  a  portion 
corresponding  to  the  length  of  time  which  had  still 
to  elapse. 

For  making  and  completing  *  a  house  the  builder 
receives  two  shekels  of  silver  for  each  SAR  (§  228).2 
If  he  had  not  made  it  strong,  and  it  fell  and  killed 
the  owner  of  the  house,  he  was  put  to  death  (§  229). 
If  the  owner's  son  died,  the  builder's  son  became 
the  victim  (§  230) ;  if  a  slave,  he  must  give  slave 
for  slave  (§  231);  and  if  the  household  goods  were 
destroyed,  he  must  make  good  the  loss  (§232).  In 
the  last-mentioned  case  the  builder  was  obliged  to 
build  up  the  ruined  house  ;  no  doubt  this  was  always 
understood  in  the  preceding  cases.  If  he  had  not 
erected  it  (us-ie-is-hi-maf  firmly  and  a  wall  fell  down, 
he  must  strengthen  it  at  his  own  expense  (§  233). 
The  laws  thus  cover  all  damages  and  inconveniences 
likely  to  arise  from  the  negligence  of  the  jerry- 
builder.  Parallels  to  these  laws  from  the  rest  of 
the  Semitic  field  are  wanting.  The  Deuteronomic 
code  enjoins  the  man  who  built  a  new  house  to 
protect  the  roof  with  a  parapet  (mctakeh;  Deut. 
22  s),  a  provision  which  is  on  the  same  general  lines 
as  the  law  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  which  makes 
the  owner  of  an  unprotected  pit  responsible  for  loss 

1  saklilj  cp.  Bibl.  Aram.  Ezr.  5  3,  n. 

2  According  to  Sayce  (op.  cit.  p.  266),  "180  SE  were  probably 
equivalent  to  i  GIN  [?  CAN],  60  GIN  to  one  SAR  or  'garden,'  1800 
SAR  to  i  feddan  or  acre,"  but  there  was  a  smaller  acre  one-tenth  of 
the  size.  3  "  Jointed  "  (Johns). 


246  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

caused  by  animals  falling  therein  (Ex.  21  33  sq.}.  A 
similar  safeguard  was  required  in  post-biblical  times, 
and  it  is  interesting  to  notice  that  the  general  regula- 
tions applying  to  tenants  are  clearly  framed  upon 
Babylonian  models.1 

(The  dues  of  the  physician  and  veterinary  also 
come  under  consideration  in  the  Code.  The  state- 
ment of  Herodotus  (1  197),  that  the  Babylonians 
brought  their  sick  into  the  market-place  in  order  to 
enlist  the  help  and  advice  of  any  passer-by  who 
might  happen  to  have  the  necessary  knowledge  to 
cure  the  complaint,  probably  does  not  refer  to 
skilled  physicians.2  The  cuneiform  texts  show  that 
the  medical  profession  was  firmly  established  under 
the  protection  of  certain  deities,  and  that  the  doctors 
ranked  high  socially  and  formed  a  corporation.3  The 
medical  literature  of  the  Babylonians  is  not  insigni- 
ficant, and  for  the  history  of  the  science  in  classical 
countries  it  is  of  the  greatest  interest.  In  one  con- 
tract— and  apparently  in  one  only — is  there  mention 
of  the  doctor's  fee  (three  shekels),4  and  from  the  Code 
it  appears  that  it  was  arranged  upon  a  sliding  scale 

1  H.  Pick,  Assyriscfes  und  Talmudisches,  p.  27  sq.  (Berlin,  1903). 
The  Syro-Roman  laws  relating  to  houses  (op.  cit.  p.  37,  §  120)  do  not 
cover  any  of  the  above-mentioned  details. 

2  Cp.  C.  F.  Lehmann,  Babyloniens  Kulturmission,  p.  86  sq. 

3  Dumon,  Journal  Asiatique,  Qth  ser.  9318-326(1897).      Gula  or 
Nin-karrak  was   the  goddess    of  nostrums ;   Ea,  the  patroness  of 
doctors,  was   apparently  figured  with  a  serpent's  head  (cp.   Num. 
219);  and  Allatu — unkindly  enough — was  the  goddess  of  the  land 
from  which  there  is  no  return. 

4  Dumon,  op.  cit.  p.  326  (Strassmaier,  no.  382,  temp.  Cyrus). 


\ 

CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  247 

according  to  the  status  of  the  patient.  The  doctor 
(a-zu)  who  treats  a  man  for  a  grievous  wound  (zi- 
im-ma-am  kab-tam)  with  a  bronze  knife  and  heals 
him  (ub-ta-al-li-it\  or  cuts  the  film *  of  a  man  with 
a  bronze  knife  and  heals  it,  receives  ten  shekels  of 
silver  (CH,  §  215),  but  only  five  if  the  patient  is  a 
poor  man  (mar  MAS-EN-KAK  ;  §  216),  and  two  if  it  is 
a  man's  slave  (arad  a-wi-lim  /  §  2 1 7).  I f  in  operating 
upon  the  wound  the  patient  dies  or  his  eye  is  lost, 
the  doctor's  hands  are  cut  off  (§  218) :  the  member 
that  caused  the  damage  receives  the  punishment.2 
This  penalty,  however,  applies  only  to  the  (free-) 
man.3  If  it  is  a  servant  (slave)  who  dies  under  the 
operation,  the  doctor  must  give  the  owner  slave  for 
slave  (§  219),  whilst  for  the  loss  of  the  slave's  eye 
pecuniary  compensation  (half  his  price)  must  be 
made  (§  220).  The  doctor  who  makes  whole  (us- 
ta-li-im)  a  man's  broken  limb  or  heals  a  diseased 
bowel  (ha-nam  mar-sa-am)  receives  five  shekels 
(§  221),  or  three  in  the  case  of  a  poor  man's  son, 
and  two  for  a  servant  (§222  sq.).  The  cow  doctor 
(a-zu  alpi)  or  sheep4  doctor  who  treats  a  cow  or 
sheep  for  a  grievous  wound  and  cures  it  receives 
one-sixth  of  a  shekel  as  his  pay  (ID-SU\  but  if  it 

1  ?  "  Cataract,"  na-gab-ti;  perhaps  "  abscess  "  (Johns). 

2  Cp.  pp.  134,  249- 

3  So,  in  Egypt,  the  doctor  who  was  at  fault  was  punished  with 
death  (Diod.  1  25,  82). 

4  So    Johns,   reading  immeru.       Scheil    and   Winckler  agree  in 
rendering  "  ass  "  (imeru).     The  most  natural  combination  is  ox  and 
sheep  ;  cp.  CH,  §§  262-265.     The  ass,  however,  is  used  for  threshing 
(§  269) ;  cp.  also  §  7  sq. 


248  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

dies  he  must  pay  one-fourth  of  its  price  to  the  owner 
(§  224  sg.). 

Although  these  laws  are  without  their  parallel  in 
the  Hebrew  legislation,  there  is  evidence  which  leads 
to  the  assumption  that  they  had  not  died  out  in  Syria 
by  the  time  of  the  Syro-Roman  law-book.  Accord- 
ing to  this  work,  if  a  man  has  been  taken  in  hand 
by  a  physician  (Syr.  asya)  in  the  TrepwSevo-i,? — the 
reference  is  perhaps  to  a  peripatetic  surgeon — and 
he  gave  him  his  pay,1  the  patient  cannot  recover  the 
sum,  whether  he  be  healed  or  not.2  From  the  stand- 
point of  Roman  law  the  principle  is  self-evident,  and 
Bruns  remarks  that  the  ruling  datio  ob  causam  is 
grounded  on  the  analogy  of  the  treatment  of  advo- 
cates, no  special  mention  of  doctors  being  found  in 
the  old  Roman  codes.  He  finds  it  surprising, 
therefore,  that  the  law  should  pass  from  doctors 
to  advocates  (cp.  note  below),  and  not  vice  versa, 
and  makes  the  happy  suggestion  that  the  Syrian 
collection  once  contained  other  laws  relating  to 
physicians.  It  seems  highly  probable  that  the  law 
under  discussion  was  distinctly  an  innovation  intro- 
duced through  Roman  influence  in  order  to  put  down 
a  practice  which  admits  of  explanation  in  the  light 
of  the  Babylonian  code.  Doubtless  the  severity  of 
the  Code  of  Hammurabi  had  been  modified  in 

1  The  veterinary  in  the  Code — like  the  doctor  in  Syria — receives 
his  "pay"  (Syr.  agra),  whilst  the   house  and   shipbuilder  receive 
their  "  honorarium  "  (kistti). 

2  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  pp.  38  (§  122),  289  sq.     The  Syriac 
extends  the  principle  of  this  law  to  prostitutes  and 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  249 

course  of  time,  and  it  may  be  conjectured  that  the 
patient  was  formerly  allowed  to  claim  the  return  of 
the  doctor's  fee  if  he  had  good  cause  to  be  dis- 
satisfied with  his  treatment. 

The  principles  underlying   the  laws  relating  to 
the    builder    and    the    physician    are    thoroughly 
characteristic  of  the  Code.     Just  as  the  hand  that 
errs  or  steals  (§§  195,  218,  226,  253),  or  the  tongue 
that  reviles  (§  192),  is  cut  off,1  so  the  person  guilty 
of  an  assault  upon  another  is  punished  precisely  in 
that  part  of  the  body  where  he  injured  his  neigh- 
bour.    The  old  crude  system  of  the  talio  prevails! 
almost  everywhere.     In  cases  of  damage  to  property 
it  is  ship  for  ship  (§  235),  goods  for  goods  (§  232), 
ox  for  ox  (§§  245,  263),  sheep  for  sheep  (§  263) ;  and, 
similarly,   as   regards   persons,   it  is  man    for  man 
(§   229),   woman  for  woman    (§   210),   son    for  son 
(§§  1 1 6,  230),  slave  for  slave  (§§  219,  231),  limb  for 
limb  (§   197),  tooth  for  tooth  (§  200),  eye  for  eye} 
(§  196),  and  whatever  punishment  a  man  tried  to 
bring  upon  another  it  is  to  be  inflicted  upon  him 
(§  3  sq.\     The  talio  holds  good  in  old  Hebrew  law,; 
in  the  Koran,  and  is  as  characteristic  of  early  Semitic! 
legislation  as  of  other  ancient  legal  codes.2 

1  So,  in  the  Laws  of  Manu,  he  who  raises  his  hand  or  a  stick 
shall  have  his  hand  cut  off;  he  who  in  anger  kicks  with  his  foot  shall 
have  his  foot  cut  off  (  8  280).     For  examples  of  the  practice  among 
the  Israelites  as  applied  to  punishments,  cp.  Num.  5  19-22  and  Gray's 
note  (Internat.  Crit.  Comm.  p.  53  $<?•). 

2  Ex.  21  23-25  ;  Deut.  19  21 ;  Lev.  24  17-21 ;  cp.  Job  2  4 ;  Matt.  5  38  ; 
Mish.  Sotah  1  7  sqq.,  etc. ;  Bruns  and  Sachau,  op.  tit.  p.  70,  §  75  ; 
Koran,  2  173  sqq.  ("  free  for  free,  slave  for  slave,  woman  for  woman  "). 


250  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

But  certain  modifications  are  to  be  observed. 
The  Code,  for  example,  enacts  that  the  talio  is  to  be 
enforced  if  one  has  caused  the  loss  of  a  man's  eye 
(§  196),  or  tooth  (§  200),  or  has  broken  the  limb 
(ner-pad-du)  of  another  (§  197).  If  the  sufferer  is 
of  lower  standing  a  pecuniary  compensation  suffices. 
Thus,  the  loss  of  the  poor  man's  eye  or  the  fracture 
of  his  limb  may  be  covered  by  a  payment  of  half  of 
a  mina  of  silver  (§  198),  whilst  his  tooth  is  valued  at 
one-third  of  a  mina  (§  201).  Again,  any  injury  to  a 
son  or  a  slave  is  a  detriment  to  his  father  or  owner, 
and  in  case  of  death  the  son  of  the  guilty  man  is  put 
to  death  or  the  latter  must  render  to  the  owner 
slave  for  slave.  If  he  has  suffered  an  injury  and 
lost  an  eye  or  limb,  one-half  of  his  price  must  be 
paid  to  the  owner  (§  199),  whilst  for  the  slave  who 
died  in  the  house  of  his  distrainer  from  neglect  or 
cruelty,  the  compensation  was  fixed  at  one -third 
(§11 6). 

One  obscure  kind  of  bodily  assault  not  only  is 
not  punished  by  the  talio,  but  is  treated  in  three 
distinct  ways  according  to  the  status  of  the  parties. 
The  man  who  struck  the  strength  (li-e-it)  of  his 
superior  is  struck  in  public  (i-na  pu-uh-ri-im)  with 
sixty  strokes  of  the  ox-hide  (§  202).  If  a  freeman 
(mar  a-wi-lim)  assaulted  one  of  his  own  standing  in 
this  manner  he  is  ordered  to  pay  one  mina  of  silver, 
or,  if  both  are  poor  men  (MAS-EN-KAK),  the  penalty 
is  ten  shekels  (§  203  sg.).  Finally,  if  it  is  a  free- 
man's servant  (slave)  who  struck  a  freeman,  he  is 
condemned  to  lose  his  ear  (§  205).  The  precise 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  O 

meaning  of  li-e-it  is  uncertain, 
rendered  " crown  of  the  head"  (Scheil),  "body" 
(Winckler),  or  "  strength "  (Johns),  and  the  last- 
mentioned  tentatively  suggests  that  the  reference 
is  to  the  genitalia.1  The  perplexing  variation  in 
the  penalty  gives  no  clue  to  the  nature  of  the 
offence,  but  if  Johns's  conjecture  is  well-founded, 
the  law  would  find  a  parallel  in  Deut.  25  n  sq.y  a 
typical  statute,  especially  noteworthy  for  the  fact  that 
it  is  the  only  case  where  mutilation  is  prescribed. 
Scourging  in  Hebrew  law  was  introduced  after  the 
time  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  and  first  appears 
in  the  Deuteronomic  code,  apparently  as  the  penalty 
for  several  kinds  of  offences  (25  1-3).  That  it  is  to 
be  regarded  as  an  innovation  in  Israel  is  practically 
certain.2 

A  small  group  of  laws  in  the  Code  relating  to 
personal  injuries  by  cattle  is  especially  interesting 
for  the  analogies  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant.  If 
a  wild  bull  (alap  zu-ga-ani)  gored  a  man  in  its  charge 
(i-na  a-la-ki-su]  and  killed  him,  no  claim  could  be 
made  (§  250) ;  but  if  the  ox  was  known  to  gore  (na- 
ak-ka-pu-u],  and  its  vice  (ba-ab-ta-sii)  had  been  made 
known  to  its  owner,  and  he  had  not  cut  or  blunted 
its  horns  (kar-ni-m  la  u-sar-ri-im)*  or  kept  it  under 
restraint  (la  u-sa-an-ni-ik-ma\  compensation  must 

1  Johns,  p.  83.  2  See  above,  p.  45  and  n.  i 

3  In  later  times  the  horns  were  protected  by  a  basket ;  cp.  Talm. 
Bab.  Berakh.  f.  33^  (Schwab,  1  538,  where  a  black  bull  is  considered 
particularly  dangerous,  especially  in  Nisan  [April],  "  for  then  it  has 
the  devil  on  the  horns  "). 


252  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

be  made.  For  a  freeman  the  owner  must  pay 
half  a  mina  (§  251),  and  for  a  slave  one-third  (§  252). 
Hebrew  law  required  the  ox  to  be  stoned,1  and 
forbade  its  flesh  to  be  eaten  ;  and  under  ordinary 
circumstances  the  owner  was  free  from  guilt.  If  the 
ox  was  wont  to  gore  (naggah\  and  its  propensity 
had  been  testified  to  the  owner,  and  he  had  failed  to 
keep  it  under  restraint  (samar),  the  owner  was  put 
to  death  (Ex.  2128  sqq.}.  It  is  provided,  however, 
that  if  a  ransom  (kopher)  was  laid  upon  him  he  must 
pay  what  was  demanded.  For  a  male  or  female 
slave  a  payment  of  thirty  shekels  was  to  be  made 
to  their  master  (vv.  30-32).  The  slave's  life  is  thus 
valued  rather  more  highly  than  in  the  Babylonian 
code. 

•      Another  group  of  laws  with  distinct  analogies  in 
/the  oldest  Hebrew  law-book  deals  with  assaults  upon 
/  women  resulting  in  miscarriage.     If  the  sufferer  is  a 
freewoman  the  compensation  is  fixed  at  ten  shekels 
(§  209),  five  shekels  if  a  poor  woman  (marat  MA$- 
EN-KAK ;  §  21 1),  but  only  two  if  a  slave  (amat ;  §  213). 
If  the  woman  herself  dies  from  the  injury  the  penalty 
is   made   proportionately  more  severe.      If  a  free- 
woman,  the  man's  daughter  is  put  to  death  (§  210); 
if  a  poor  woman,  half  a  mina  of  silver  must  be  paid 
(§  212),  and  if  a  slave,  one-third  of  a  mina  (§  214). 
The  scale   of  penalties   for   miscarriage   agrees 

1  Cp.  Frazer,  Pausanias,  2  370  sqq.,  and  for  mediaeval  examples, 
Baring-Gould,  Curiosities  of  Olden  Times^  pp.  57  sqq.  (Edinburgh, 
1895).  At  the  present  day  the  parents  of  the  victim  may  lay  claim 
to  the  animal  (Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique^  1901,  p.  600). 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  253 

curiously  with  the  doctor's  fees  in  §§  215,  217,  and 
the  monetary  valuation  for  loss  of  life  is  identical 
with  §  251  sq.  (above).  In  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant  the  relative  law  is  confined  to  a  single 
verse  which  is  embedded  in  the  general  laws  dealing 
with  assault.  It  orders  that  miscarriage  caused  by 
assault  is  to  be  compensated  according  to  the 
demands  of  the  woman's  husband  (ba'al,  Ex.  21  22). 
The  amount  of  the  penalty  is  not  specified, — it  is 
purely  a  matter  to  be  adjusted  between  the  offender 
and  the  husband,  and  the  reference  in  the  present 
text  to  the  decision  of  the  judges  is  due  to  a  corrupt 
reading.1  The  agreement  between  the  two  legis- 
lations is  only  superficial.  Both  handle  the  same 
topic,  both  apply  their  own  principles.  In  Baby- 
lonia, the  assault  becomes  an  occasion  for  a  judicial 
enquiry,  in  Israel  it  is  a  detriment  to  the  husband's 
property.  The  Code  treats  the  case  with  com- 
parative minuteness,  and  applies  it  to  three  classes 
of  society,  whilst  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  does 
not  speak  clearly  with  regard  to  the  punishment  to 
be  inflicted  if  the  woman  should  die  from  the 
assault.2  The  present  arrangement  of  the  laws  of 
assault  is  probably  not  original.  The  specification 
of  the  talio  in  Ex.  21 23-25  preferably  belongs  to 
some  general  law  of  assault,  and  should  probably 

1  Budde's    emendation    in  v.   zzb  ("and  he    shall  pay  for  the 
foetus "  :    ntpkOlim)  answers   exactly  to  the  Bab.  a-na  sa  li-ib-bi-sa 
i-sa-kal  ("for  what   was    in    her   body  he  shall  pay"),  and   is  in 
accordance    with   the   discussion    in   Baba   Kamma^    56;    cp.  also 
Jaussen's  account  of  modern  custom,  Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  598. 

2  Josephus  applies  the  talio^  "  life  for  life  "  (iv.  8  33). 


254  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

follow  after  vv.  18,  19,  where  assaults  between  man 
and  man  come  under  consideration. 

Here,  if  as  a  result  of  a  blow  with  the  fist  or  a 
stone — the  instruments  are  typical — a  man  has  been 
forced  to  take  to  his  bed  (naphal  le-miskab\  and  is 
lamed,  the  assailant  is  acquitted,  but  he  must  com- 
pensate him  for  his  loss  of  time  (sdbeth,  cessation), 
and  must  certainly  cause  him  to  be  healed.  An 
injury  resulting  in  death  is  punished  by  the  death  of 
the  assailant,  but  the  law  distinguishes  between 
presumptuous  murder  and  death  arising  from  a 
chance  affray  (vv.  12-14).  It  is  not  a  capital  offence 
for  the  master  to  injure  his  servant  mortally ;  some 
punishment  is  inflicted,  but  its  nature  is  not  specified, 
and  if  death  does  not  immediately  ensue,  the  master 
is  free  (y.  20  sq.}.  Nor  was  the  talio  enforced  for 
a  minor  injury.  The  master  who  struck  out  his 
servant's  tooth  or  eye  was  only  required  to  grant  him 
his  freedom  (v.  26  sq.\  and  although  it  is  not  stated,  it 
is  to  be  presumed  that  this  was  also  the  custom  for 
permanent  injuries  of  other  kinds. 

In  the  Code  of  Hammurabi,  the  man  who  struck 
another  in  a  quarrel  (i-na  ri-is-ba-tim  im-ta-ha-as-ma) 
and  caused  a  wound  (zi-im-ma-am)  can  swear — "I  did 
not  strike  him  wittingly,"1  but  must  answer  for  the 
physician  (a-zu  i-ip-pa-al ;  §  2o6).2  If  the  man  dies 
of  his  blows,  the  offender  must  swear  (as  before) 
and  make  a  compensation,  half  a  mina  for  a  freeman, 

1  See  above,  p.  61  n.  i 

2  Similarly,  in  the  Laws  of  Manu,  the  assailant  must  pay  the 
expenses  of  the  cure  (8  287). 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  255 

and  if  the  victim  was  a  poor  man,  one-third  of  a 
mina  (§  207  sq.}.  In  other  respects  the  principles  of 
Babylonian  law  are  in  agreement  with  the  Hebrew. 
The  talio  is  enforced,  but  a  pecuniary  payment  is 
sufficient  when  the  sufferer  is  on  a  lower  footing. 

Later  usage  was  directed  towards  the  modifica-  j 
tion    of  the   talio.      Josephus  (Ant.  iv.  8  35)  states 
that  although  maiming  is  avenged  by  the  talio,  the 
sufferer  may  receive  a  compensation,  and  is  allowed 
by  law  to  estimate  the  amount ;  and   so  in  post- 
biblical  times  all  petty  assaults  are  generally  dealt 
with  by  fines  varying  according  to  the  dignity  of 
the   injured   person1  —  a   class   distinction    that   is 
reminiscent    of    the    Babylonian    code.       Modern 
custom  varies ;  the  loss  of  a  hand  may  be  valued  at 
half  and  an  eye  at  one-fourth  the  price  of  a  man,  or 
the  case  may  be  left  to  the  sheikh's  decision.2     In  j 
default  of  payment  the  guilty  man  and  his  nearest  kin  ? 
may  be  exiled  until  they  have  the  means  to  pay.3 

The  Code  laid  upon  the  city  and  its  governor  the 
responsibility  for  brigandage  carried  on  within  its 
limits  (§  23,  p.  214  above),  and  "if  it  was  a  life" 
(na-bi-is-tutn),  the  city  and  its  governor  were 
required  to  pay  one  mina  of  silver  to  the  people  of 
the  murdered  man  (§  24).  The  law  has  Semitic 
analogies,  and,  as  Dareste  has  pointed  out,  recurs 

1  Baba  Kdmma,  8  6  ;  Jewish  Encyclopedia,  2  225^.     (As  a  means 
of  appraisement  damage  could  be  estimated  at  the  difference  between 
a  man's  market  value  as  a  slave  before  and  after  the  assault.) 

2  Jaussen,  Revue  Biblique,  1901,  p.  598. 
8  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  1  317  sq. 


256  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

not  infrequently  in  ancient  codes.1  In  Arabia,  the 
responsibility  for  homicide,  where  the  murderer  was 
unknown,  was  cast  in  the  first  instance  upon  the 
nearest  community,  but  under  Islam,  blood-money 
in  these  circumstances  was  paid  by  the  State.2 
The  Israelite  ritual  for  the  expiation  of  murder  by 
an  unknown  hand,  although  preserved  only  in  the 
Deuteronomic  code  (21 1-9),  is  evidently  a  reflection 
of  ancient  usage.  Primarily,  it  rested  entirely  in 
the  hands  of  the  elders  of  the  community,  who  are 
required  to  profess  their  innocence  and  make  atone- 
ment for  the  blood  that  has  been  impiously  shed  by 
placing  the  burden  of  the  guilt  upon  an  animal.8 
The  account  covers  only  one  aspect  of  blood 
revenge,4  and  it  is  noteworthy  that  nothing  is  said 
of  the  part  taken  in  the  ceremony  by  the  murdered 
man's  kin,  for  which  reason  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
it  relates  only  to  the  case  where  both  the  murdered 
man  and  the  murderer  are  unknown. 

The  introductory  remarks  made  in  chap.  iii.  on 

1  Journal  des  Savants,    1902,  p.    521,  n.  4;  cp.   Fenton,  Early 
Hebrew  Life,  p.  45  sq.     The  Egyptian  custom  recorded  by  Herod. 
2  90,  whereby  the  nearest  city  was  obliged  to  embalm  and  bury  dead 
bodies  found  in  the  district,  can  scarcely  be  cited  as  a  close  analogy ; 
cp.  A.  Wiedemann,  Herodots  ziveites  Buck,  adloc.  (Leipzig,  1890). 

2  Robertson    Smith,    Kinship^   p.   64,   n.   2 ;    cp.    Wellhausen, 
Arab.  Heid.®  p.  188  sq. ;  Dareste  cities  also  Khalil,  art.  1835-1837. 

3  The  judges  (sophetini)  are  mentioned  in  v.  2,  only  to  disappear 
again,  and  the  Levitical  priests  are  named  only  in  v.  5,  which  does 
not  seem  to  belong  to  the  original  ritual  (Carpenter  and  Harford- 
Battersby,  Hexateuch,  Bertholet,  Steuernagel,  ad  loc.). 

4  Possibly  belonging  to  a  group  of  laws  dealing  with  the  subject ; 
cp.  Ex.  22,  2, 3#,  etc. 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  257 

the  prevalence  of  blood  -  revenge  among  primitive 
Semitic  communities  may  now  be  supplemented  by 
a  glance  at  the  successive  modifications  and  qualifi- 
cations of  the  original  system  under  the  growth  of 
society.  As  long  as  the  jus  talionis  prevailed  with 
its  logical  severity  no  advance  could  be  made. 
Justice  repeats  the  offence,  and  every  affair  into 
which  it  is  introduced  becomes  endless.  A  step 
forward  is  taken  when  the  affair  is  restricted  to  the 
families  of  the  aggrieved  and  the  aggressor,  and  the 
weakening  of  the  tribal  solidarity  which  rendered 
this  possible  cleared  the  way  for  further  advances. 
At  the  same  time,  when  the  affair  is  thus  reduced  to 
a  dispute  between  individuals,  it  is  entirely  a  matter 
of  private  arrangement,  and  the  aggrieved  have  th 
right  to  make  their  own  terms.  A  distinction  is 
made  between  murder  and  manslaughter,  and  th 
status  of  the  slain  is  taken  into  consideration.  Com- 
pensation may  be  demanded  or  accepted,  and  the 
amount,  which  at  first  is  arbitrarily  fixed  by  the 
injured  party  (cp.  Ex.  21  22,  30),  is  subsequently 
controlled  by  customary  usage  (cp.  21 32).  Gradually 
there  grow  up  fixed  scales  of  fines  and  compensa- 
tion which,  by  common  consent,  hold  good  among 
specified  tribal  groups.  The  adjustment  of  these 
tariffs  one  with  another  follows  later  when  the 
various  groups  are  united  under  one  head,  or  when 
one  group  has  become  sufficiently  powerful  to  impose 
its  scale  upon  all  those  with  which  it  is  brought  into 
contact.  The  last  stage  is  reached  when  revenge  isj 
taken  out  of  the  hands  of  the  individual  by  society,! 

17 


258  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

and  the  penalty  for  the  crime  is  a  punishment 
.  determined  by  the  constituted  authorities  and  carried 
\out  by  duly  appointed  officials.1 

Old  Hebrew  law  as  early  as  the  age  of  the  Book 
of  the  Covenant  restricted  the  right  of  the  slain 
man's  kin  to  exact  revenge.  Unintentional  homicide 
is  distinguished  from  deliberate  murder,  and  there 
are  other  indications  that  the  laws  of  murder  had 
passed  beyond  the  primitive  stage  of  blood  -  feud, 
The  slave's  person  is  not  valued  as  highly  as  that  of 
the  freeman  ;  for  the  thief  who  meets  his  death  at 
night  no  blood-atonement  is  necessary,  and  a  dis- 
tinction is  drawn  between  instant  death  after  a  blow 
and  the  case  where  the  victim  lingers  for  a  day  or 
two.  The  later  legislation  works  out  the  laws  with 
greater  precision.  The  rights  of  asylum  are  more 
clearly  defined,  and  rules  are  laid  down  by  which 
intentional  homicide  may  be  justifiably  presumed 
(Num.  35).  Along  with  this,  it  is  to  be  observed 
that  the  exaction  of  the  penalty  rests  with  the 
injured  party,  and  after  the  enquiry  the  murderer  is 
handed  over  to  the  blood-avenger  to  be  put  to  death 
(Deut.  19  ii  sg.).  The  state  does  not  step  in  to 
protect  the  interests  of  the  aggrieved ;  personal 
honour  and  the  unwritten  laws  of  the  tribe  requires 
the  accuser  to  take  the  initiative  and  compels  him  to 
carry  out  the  penalty  (cp.  Deut.  17  7). 

Mohammedan  legislation,  in  like  manner,  dis- 
tinguished between  murder,  fatal  assault,  and  un- 

1  Cp.  Benzinger,  EBi.  "  Law  and  Justice,"  §  1 1. 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  259 

intentional  homicide,  and  whilst  endorsing  the  talio, 
recommends  the  aggrieved  party  to  accept  a  fine.^ 
In    Syria   the   Syro- Roman    law-book   forbids  the, 
blood-avenger  to  kill  the  man-slayer  and  requires  the  i 
accuser  to  hand  the  guilty  over  to  the  authorities.2^ 
Naturally,  different  groups  of  communities  reached 
different  stages.      The  lawless   Trachonites  of  the 
time  of  Herod  the  Great  carried  out  the  old  law  of 
retaliation    to    the    full   (Josephus,   Ant.   xvi.    9   i). 
Among   the   modern    Bedouin  usage  varies.     The 
extreme  penalty  for  murder  may  be  exacted,  and 
the  relatives  of  the  murdered  person  may  be  com- 
pelled to  carry  it  out,3  or  the  death-sentence  may 
even  be  performed  by  the  relatives  of  the  murderer.  ! 
Among  those  tribes  where  the  were-gild  is  accepted, 
either  the    amount   of  the    ransom    is    left    to   the 
decision  of  the  kadi,   or  two  or  more  tribes  will 
come     to     an     understanding     among     themselves 
touching  the  rate  of  assessment.5     Thus   the   road! 
is    paved   for   the    formulation    of  a   definite   legal  \ 
code. 

The  legal  principles  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi 
viewed  in  the  light  of  the  foregoing  are  particularly 
striking.  The  primitive  law  of  the  talio  has  under- 
gone certain  modifications.  It  is  rigidly  enforced, 

1  Koran^   2  177,  4  94  sq. ;  cp.  Procksch,  op.  cit.  p.  86  (and  chap, 
iv.  generally). 

2  Brims  and  Sachau,  op.  cit.  p.  70,  §  74. 

3  Cp.  Doughty,  Ar.  Des.  2  368. 

4  PEFQ,  1897,  p.  131  sq* 

5  Doughty,    1  145  sq.,  491 ;    cp.  402,    476,    491  ;     Jaussen,    Revue 
Biblique^  1901,  p.  599. 


260  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

and  the  exceptions  are  made  chiefly  in  those  cases 
where  the  victim  is  on  a  lower  standing  than  the 
assailant.  But  revenge  is  not  admitted ;  every- 
thing is  under  the  supervision  of  the  legal  authorities, 
and  the  rare  occasions  when  the  individual  may 
take  the  law  into  his  own  hands  refer  not  to  murder 
but  to  theft  (§§  21,  25).  The  Code  does  not  handle 
murder,  but  the  detailed  punishments  for  various 
kinds  of  assault  suggest  that  if  no  mention  is  made 
of  it,  it  is  only  because  the  law  was  too  firmly 
established  to  require  a  specific  statute.  "  The 
people  which  killed  my  servants,"  writes  Burraburias 
to  Naphururiaof  Egypt,  "kill  them  and  avenge  their 
blood"  (da-mi-su-nu  ti-i-ir.)1  This  was  doubtless  the 
law  at  the  time  when  the  Code  was  promulgated, 
and  Hammurabi's  chief  concern  was  to  make  excep- 
tions in  favour  of  unintentional  homicide  (§§  206-208). 
Further,  it  is  probable  that  when  the  victim  was 
lof  inferior  rank  a  fine  was  sufficient,  whilst  in  the 
case  of  a  slave  naturally  the  owner  required  some 
pecuniary  compensation. 

In  conclusion,  although  this  tends  to  show  that 

I  the    Babylonians  had   reached    the  stage  of  penal 

[law,  and  although  we  find  that  punishments  were 

inflicted  by  the  State,  and  private  individuals  only 

on    the    rarest    occasions  were  allowed    to  avenge 

themselves,  it  is  very  necessary  to  observe  that  certain 

of  the  grosser  features  of  the  barbarous  jus  talionis 

were  retained   in   all  their  crudeness.     When  it  is 

remembered,  for  example,  that  the  builder's  son  is 

1  Amarna  Letters,  no.  n,  obv.  1.  4  sq.  (KB  5  27). 


CHAP,  x          PROTECTION  OF  THE  PERSON  261 

made  a  victim  for  the  tenant's  son  (§  230),  or  the 
assailant's  daughter  dies  to  make  atonement  for  the 
woman  who  has  died  of  an  assault  (§  210),  it  is  clear 
that  the  people  among  whom  these  practices  pre- 
vailed were  still  a  long  way  behind  pure  con- 
ceptions of  justice.  And  it  is  interesting  to  find 
that  the  Code  in  this  respect  is  quite  in  agreement 
with  the  tenacious  primitive  Semitic  theory  of  blood- 
revenge,  in  accordance  with  which  a  man's  guilty 
was  shared  by  the  whole  family,  could  be  inherited 
even  by  the  unborn,  and  was  only  wiped  out  after 
revenge  had  been  taken  upon  some  one  member 
or  other  of  the  guilty  man's  kin.  Although  this 
was  the  prevailing  tendency  of  early  Israelite 
thought,  it  is  a  characteristic  feature  of  the  Book 
of  the  Covenant  that  it  is  only  the  actual  manslayer 
who  is  put  to  death  (Ex.  21  12),  and  throughout 
the  following  centuries  the  idea  of  personal  re- 
sponsibility was  the  prophetic  ideal  outstripping 
the  practice  of  everyday  life.1  The  Deuteronomic 
code  expressly  says  that  the  son  is  not  to  die  for 
the  father  or  the  father  for  the  son  (Deut.  24  16 ; 
cp.  2  Kings  14  6,  Jer.  31  30),  and  the  climax  is 
reached  by  Ezekiel  (chap.  18),  who  refuses  to 
recognise  either  transmitted  guilt  or  transmitted 


1  Contrast  Deut.  7  10  with  the  Decalogue,  where  the  extension 
of  the  responsibility  of  guilt  to  the  third  and  fourth  generation  is  in 
accordance  with  the  Bedouin  humsaj  the  ancestor  with  four  genera- 
tions forms  a  solidarity  (cp.  Procksch,  op.  cit.  p.  24  ;  Patton,  loc. 
tit.  p.  705  sq. ;  D.  A.  Walker,  Journ.  Bibl.  Lit.  1902,  p.  190.  See 
also  below,  p.  274). 


262  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  x 

righteousness.  The  early  restriction  of  the  talio 
and  the  gradual  recognition  of  individual  respon- 
sibility give  an  ethical  superiority  to  Israelite  law 
which  counterbalances  whatever  deficiencies  it  may 
possess  in  other  respects. 


CHAPTER    XI 

CONCLUSION 

General  considerations — Phraseology  not  conclusive — CH  contrasted 
with  Book  of  Covenant  and  Deuteronomy  —  Divergent  treat- 
ment of  identical  topics — The  humanity  of  the  codes — Strangers 
and  foreigners — Laws  relating  to  cult,  religion,  and  ethics — 
Influence  of  CH  in  post-exilic  period — Comparative  Semitic 
legislation. 

IT  is  true  that  the  two  main  systems  of  legislation 
which  have  been  discussed  in  the  course  of  the  pre-  J 
ceding  chapters    have   many  noteworthy  points    in  , 
common,  but  it  is  impossible  not  to  have  observed  j 
how  striking  are  the  differences  between  them.     At  - 
the  head  of  each  there  towers  a  mighty  figure  toj 
whom  the  promulgation  of  these  laws  is  ascribed  ;    I 
behind  each  there  looms  the   Deity,   the  ultimate 
source  of  the  laws  which    Hammurabi  in   the  one 
case,  and    Moses    in    the  other,    imparted  to  their^ 
people.       Criticism,    however,     has    not    left    un-^ 
challenged  the  tradition  of  the  Mosaic  authorship 
of  the  Hebrew  legislation]  and  closer  study  shows, 
too,  that  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  was   no  ready- 
made  series  of  novelties,  the  production  of  a  single 

263 


264  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

mind  and  time,  but  the  climax  of  centuries  of  cus- 
tomary usage,  which,  in  the  form  it  has  come  down 
to  us,  is  the  result  of  modification,  compression,  or 
addition,  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  that 
prevailed  at  the  time  of  its  promulgation.1  So, 
whilst  written  legislation  in  Babylonia  takes  its  rise 
in  the  reign  of  the  greatest  monarch  of  the  first 
Babylonian  dynasty,  in  Israel  written  laws  can 
scarcely  be  carried  back  beyond  the  ninth  century 
at  the  earliest,  and  in  their  existing  form  represent 
the  latest  stage  of  the  Pentateuchal  legislation  in 
the  Old  Testament,  a  thousand  years  later  than 
the  great  figure  to  whom  tradition  ascribed  their 
initiation. 

Neither  of  these  two  systems  can  be  called 
pandects.  Some  important  topics  are  either  entirely 
ignored  or  are  handled  with  an  incompleteness  that 
must  have  rendered  them  ineffective  for  everyday 
purposes.  In  some  cases  we  have  to  assume  that 
customary  usage  was  too  firmly  established  to 
require  the  law  to  be  mentioned  in  one  or  other  of 
the  codes,  in  other  cases  the  difference  between  the 
state  of  society  in  Babylonia  and  Israel,  or  the  change 

1  Examples  are  to  be  found  in  the  modification  of  the  older 
family  laws  (p.  135)  and  in  the  retention  of  the  talio  without  blood- 
revenge  (p.  259  sq.}.  Further,  in  the  laws  relating  to  cattle  in 
the  care  of  another,  it  is  ordered  that  if  a  lion  ravages  or  a  "  stroke 
of  God  "  occurs,  the  man  must  swear  his  innocency,  and  the  loss  falls 
upon  the  owner.  But  whereas  in  the  case  of  the  hired  animal 
these  possibilities  are  treated  separately  (§§  244,  249),  in  the  laws 
relating  to  the  herdsman  they  have  been  combined,  probably  by  an 
editorial  process  (§  266). 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  265 

of  conditions  in  the  various  periods  of  Israelite 
history,  affords  an  explanation.  Both  systems  are 
marked  by  the  prominence  given  to  the  needs  of 
agriculture  and  the  protection  of  the  person,  and 
the  Babylonian  code  not  only  deals  more  thoroughly 
than  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  with  topics  falling 
under  these  heads  but  lays  itself  out  to  advance 
industrial  conditions,  either  indirectly,  by  paying 
every  heed  to  prevent  any  breach  of  the  peace,  or 
directly,  by  means  of  statutes  which  tended  to  afford 
greater  security  to  business  relations  of  all  kinds.  ^ 
In  this  respect  the  attention  which  is  paid  to  prices, 
wages,  and  rents,  and  to  laws  for  such  classes  as 
doctors,  boatmen,  innkeepers,  courtesans,  is  especially 
noteworthy. 

There  is  a  certain  similarity  in  the  legal  formula- 
tion in  both  systems,  but  it  is  questionable  whether 
it  is  of  a  kind  to  which  any  great  weight  may  be 
attached.  The  Old  Babylonian  formula  is  "  when 
(summa)  a  man,"  etc.,  which  in  the  New  Babylonian 
period  appears  in  the  form  of  a  statement.1  In 
the  Book  of  the  Covenant  the  groups  of  laws  are 
similarly  introduced  by  "  when  "  (ki),  but  the  sub- 
divisions are  indicated  not  by  the  repetition  of  the 
introductory  term  as  in  CH,  but  by  "if"  (im).  In 
both,  however,  the  verb  is  in  the  third  person 
(contrast  Ex.  21  2).2  But,  generally  speaking,  there 

1  Observe  the  parallel  laws  cited  above,  p.  87,  n.  I. 

2  The  following  comparison  of  CH,  §  8  with  Ex.  22  1-4  may  serve 
as  an  illustration  : — "  If  a  man  (sum-ma  a-wi-lum\  either  an  ox  or 
(lu)  a  sheep  or  an  ass  or  a  pig  or  a  ship  has  stolen,  whether  of  the 


266  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

is  considerable  variation  in  Hebrew  usage.1  The 
simple  statement  appears  notably  in  Ex.  21  12-17, 
22  19  [18]  sqq.,  of  which  the  former  probably,  and 
the  latter  almost  certainly,  did  not  fall  within  the 
scope  of  the  original  Book  of  the  Covenant.2  The 
substitution  of  the  impersonal  law  by  a  command  or 
prohibition  in  the  second  person,  though  not  un- 
known (21a;  in  a  secondary  clause,  21  23),  is  more 
frequent  in  the  miscellaneous  statutes  appended  to 
it  (22  i8-23  g),3  and  is  more  particularly  characteristic 
of  the  Decalogue,  the  Deuteronomic  code,  and  the 
Priestly  legislation.  The  expression  of  the  law  in  a 
form  of  a  statement  also  becomes  more  common  in 
ithe  late  codesjand  although  the  introductory  kl  is 
retained,  particularly  in  the  civil  law,  it  is  less 
frequently  followed  by  the  secondary  im.  Fuller 

temple  (sum-ma  sa  i-lim\  whether  of  the  palace,  he  shall  give 
(i-na-ad-di-in)  thirtyfold  ;  if  he  is  a  poor  man  (sum-ma  sa  MA&-EN- 
KAK]  tenfold  he  shall  return  (t-ri-a-ab) ;  if  the  thief  has  nought  to  give, 
he  shall  be  killed."  Ex.  22  i  sqq.\  "When  steals  a  man  (ki  yignob  is} 
ox  or  sheep,  and  he  kills  it  or  sells  it,  five  oxen  shall  he  restore 
(yesallem)  for  an  ox,  and  four  sheep  for  a  sheep ;  if  (im)  in  the 
breaking  in  the  thief  is  found  and  is  smitten  and  dies,  there  is  no 
blood-guiltiness  ...  if  he  has  nought,  he  shall  be  sold  for  his  theft ; 
if  there  is  found  in  the  hand  the  stolen  thing  .  .  .  twofold  shall  he 
restore." 

1  It  may  be  observed  that  the  fact  that  22  6  [5]  begins  with  kl  and 
not  im  tells  somewhat  against  the  view  that  the  verse  deals  with 
another  case  of  the  law  of  arson  which  ex  hyp.  commences  in  v.  5  [4] 
(p.  202  above). 

2  Cp.     Carpenter    and    Harford  -  Battersby,    The    Hexateuch,    1 
256  n. 

3  Also   in    other    Elohistic    codes,  e.g.  Ex.  20  23-26,  23  10-19,  but 
more  commonly  in  the  singular. 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  267 

treatment  of  the  subject  is  scarcely  necessary  here.1 
The  Syro  -  Roman  law  -  book  is  marked  by  the 
frequent  use  of  the  hypothetical  en  (if),2  but  the 
ordinary  statement  and  the  expression  of  the  law  as 
the  answer  to  a  question  are  common.3 

More  remarkable  is  the  agreement  in  phraseology 
between  CH,  §  117  and  Ex.  21  2,  to  which  attention 
has  already  been  directed  (p.  164).  It  is  interesting 
to  find  the  same  formula  in  use  in  Egypt,  and  the 
question  may  be  left  open  whether  both  Egypt  and 
Israel  borrowed  it  from  Babylonia!  or  whether  it 
is  mere  coincidence  that  the  oracle  from  Buto  as 
quoted  by  Herodotus  (2  133)  should  have  expressed 
itself  in  these  familiar  words — "six  years  only  shalt 
thou  live  upon  the  earth  and  in  the  seventh  thou 
shalt  end  thy  days."4  The  phraseological  evidence 
would  have  considerable  weight  if  it  could  be  proved 
that  Babylonian  legal  terms,  also,  had  been  taken 
over  into  Hebrew.  This,  however,  is  not  the  case, 
and,  as  we  shall  presently  see,  it  is  not  until  the 
exilic  age  and  later  that  the  traces  of  this  description 

1  The  synopsis  in  The  Hexateuch,  I  256-269,  will  be  of  most  value 
to  the  ordinary  reader. 

J  The  same  form  occurs  also  in  the  laws  of  the  Twelve  Tables 
and  in  the  Gortynian  code  from  Crete. 

3  E.g.    "men    who   make    breaches    are    liable    to    the    death 
penalty "  ;    "  the  law  is  asked,  how  long  must  a  woman  remain  a 
widow  ?  "  or  "  the  law  does  not  allow  a  woman  to  enter  a  process," 
etc. 

4  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  our  information  regarding  Egyptian 
law    is    too    scanty  to    admit    of  our    determining    whether    it  was 
influenced  in  other  respects  by  the  Babylonian  code. 


268  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

are  unambiguous.1  Leaving  the  phraseological  and 
philological  evidence,  we  may  now  consider  briefly 
the  extent  of  the  resemblances  between  the  Code  of 
Hammurabi  and  the  oldest  Hebrew  collection  of 
laws. 

The  Book  of  the  Covenant  contains  a  number  of 
groups  of  laws  relating  to  slaves  (male  and  female), 
injuries  (personal  and  to  slaves),  cattle  (damage  by 
and  to),  theft,  damaged  crops,  etc.,  and  in  several 
instances  each  group  is  easily  divisible  into  a 
series  of  five  ordinances.  Viewing  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant  (BC)  along  with  the  Code  of  Hammurabi 
(CH),  we  observe  that  whereas  in  CH  (§  117)  the 
enslaved  wife  and  children  are  free  in  the  fourth 
year,  in  BC  (Ex.  212)  it  is  not  until  the  seventh 
year  that  the  male  Hebrew  slave  regains  his  freedom  ; 
but,  on  the  other  hand,  in  CH  (§  118)  the  ordinary 
slave  cannot  be  reclaimed.  The  owner  has  no 
claim  upon  the  slave's  free  wife  and  children  in  CH 
(§  176)  and  BC  (21  3),  but  the  latter  applies  only  to 
the  man  who  had  been  married  before  he  became  a 
slave.  In  BC  (21 7-11)  no  slave  concubine  could  be 
sold  to  strangers,  but  in  CH  (§§  119,  147),  provided 
she  has  borne  children,  she  could  not  be  sold  as  a 
punishment,  and  if  sold  for  a  debt  she  must  be 
redeemed.  To  smite  one's  parents  was  punished 
in  CH  (§  195)  by  mutilation,  in  BC  (21  15)  by  death. 

1  The  Hebrew  terms  for  legal  procedure  may  be  gathered  from  a 
variety  of  passages  (Ex.  24  14,  2  Sam.  152,  Is.  508,  etc.),  notably 
from  the  Book  of  Job  (9  19,  23  4,  31  n,  28,  33  10,  34  5),  and  need  not 
be  discussed  here. 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  269 

To  kidnap  the  son  of  a  freeman  brought  death  in 
CH  (§  14),  but  BC  (21  16)  exacts  death  for  the 
man-stealer  whether  the  victim  be  recovered  or  not. 
In  CH  (§  206),  for  injury  in  a  quarrel  the  culprit 
must  swear  it  was  done  unintentionally,  and  pay  the 
doctor;  in  BC  (21  18  sq.),  payment  for  loss  of  time 
and  healing  is  ordained.  But  if  the  man  dies,  CH 
(§  207)  requires  the  oath  of  purgation  and  a  fixed 
compensation,  whereas  BC  presumably  exercises 
the  right  of  asylum  (21  12-14).  Where  the  injury  is 
specified,  both  CH  and  BC  use  the  talio,  but  the 
former  allows  a  compensation  if  the  victim  is  of 
humble  origin,  and  in  the  case  of  a  slave  BC 
(21  26  sq.)  gives  him  his  freedom  as  compensation, 
whereas  CH  requires  an  indemnity  for  the  owner 
(§  199).  Again,  if  the  victim  is  a  woman,  and  mis- 
carriage ensues,  in  BC  (21 22)  the  husband  fixes 
the  fine,  whereas  CH  has  a  tariff  and  takes  into 
account  the  possible  death  of  the  woman  herself 
(CH,  §§  209-214). 

As  regards  damage  by  or  to  animals,  neither  CH 
nor  BC  provides  a  remedy  for  the  vicious  ox  ;  but 
if  its  owner  had  been  warned,  CH  inflicts  fines 
(§§  250  sqq.,  30  shekels  for  a  freeman,  20  shekels 
for  a  slave),  whilst  BC  orders  death-penalty,  or  a 
ransom,  the  amount  of  which  is  only  specified  in  the 
case  of  a  slave  (30  shekels  ;  vv.  28-32). 

In  both  codes,  the  night-thief  may  be  killed  on 
the  spot,  but  the  death-penalty  in  CH  is  inflicted 
further  for  the  brigand,  for  theft  from  temple  or 
palace,  or  at  a  fire,  and  the  district  is  responsible 


270  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

\  for  the  depredations  caused  by  highwaymen  (CH, 
§  23  sq.).  The  extent  of  the  restitution  in  CH 
ranges  from  thirty  fold  to  twofold,  in  BC  five  for  an 
ox,  four  for  a  sheep,  and  double  if  the  stolen  thing 
is  found  in  his  possession  (22  1-4).  In  CH,  §  8  the 
sacrilegious  thief  who  could  not  make  restitution  is 
put  to  death;  the  cattle-lifter  in  Ex.  22s  is  sold.1 
CH,  §  57  sq.  distinguishes  two  cases  of  damage  to 
crops  by  animals,  but  whether  the  topic  is  handled 
in  BC  (Ex.  22  5)  is  uncertain  ;  one  (or  perhaps  two) 
cases  of  damage  by  fire  are  given  in  BC  (22  5,  [?]6), 
but  nothing  is  mentioned  respecting  damages  to 
crops  by  flood  (CH,  §§  53-56).  General  cases  of 
lost  or  stolen  property  are  treated  at  length  in  CH 
(§§  9~I3)>  but  with  extreme  brevity  in  the  corre- 
sponding law  in  BC  (22  9).  If  a  thief  steals  a 
deposit,  in  CH  the  depositee  must  make  restitution 
and  recover  from  the  thief  (§  125),  in  BC  he  clears 
himself  by  an  oath  (22  7  sq.).  If  property  in  charge 
of  another  is  destroyed  by  a  lion,  there  is  no  re- 
sponsibility, if  by  "  stroke  of  God,"  oath  of  innocence 
(CH,  §§  244,  249;  cp.  267);  but  in  BC,  if  torn  by 
lion,  evidence  must  be  brought  (22  13),  and  if  a  case 
of  vis  major,  the  man  swears  an  oath  (22  10  sq.).  If 
lost  through  negligence  (§  267)  or  theft  (Ex.  22  12), 
restitution  is  required  in  both  CH  and  BC. 

The  differences  between  the  two  systems  as 
illustrated  by  this  brief  recapitulation  are  equally 
striking  when  the  later  Hebrew  legislation  is  con- 
sidered. For  example,  CH,  in  dealing  with  seduc- 

1  Cp.  CH,  §  54,  the  negligent  irrigator,  above,  p.  198. 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  271 

tion,  does  not  handle  the  case  of  the  unbetrothed 
virgin,  whilst  its  treatment  of  the  one  who  is  be- 
trothed (CH,  §  130)  differs  notably  from  the  Hebrew 
laws  (cp.  above,  pp.  100  sqq.\  For  adultery  and 
incest  CH  inflicts  a  great  variety  of  penalties,  viz. 
burning  (mother,  §  157),  drowning  (neighbour's  wife, 
§  129,  daughter-in-law,  §  155),  expulsion  (daughter, 
§  154),  and  disinheritance  (son  with  step-  or  foster- 
mother,  §  158).  In  the  Old  Testament,  the  punish- 
ments are  death  (step -mother,  daughter-in-law, 
Lev.  20  ii  sqq.\  burning  (bigamy,  marriage  of  woman 
and  her  mother,  Lev.  20  14),  "  cutting  off"  (sister, 
Lev.  20  17),  and  even  childlessness  (wife  of  uncle  or 
brother,  Lev.  202o^.).1 

The  Old  Testament  laws  of  slander  relate  to  the 
case  of  the  newly  married  husband  and  wife,  which 
is  not  specifically  treated  in  CH,  and  is  silent  on 
the  subject  of  slander  of  a  wife  by  a  third  party 
(CH,  §  127).  Provision  is  made,  as  in  CH,  §  23  sq.t 
for  the  murdered  man  whose  assailant  is  undiscovered, 
but  the  procedure  is  different.  The  Old  Testament 

1  As  regards  the  penalties  in  general,  stoning,  the  old  customary 
mode  of  execution,  seems  to  have  disappeared  from  Babylonia,  whilst 
drowning,  which  comes  up  in  §§  108,  129,  133,  143,  155,  came  into 
vogue  in  later  Judaism.  Burning  appears  thrice  in  the  Code  (§§  25, 
no,  157),  but  it  was  very  rare  in  Israel  (p.  106  sq.~).  On  impalement 
(CH,  §  153)  and  hanging,  see  EBi.  "Hanging"  and  for  the  intro- 
duction of  scourging  into  Israelite  and  Mohammedan  procedure,  see 
pp.  45,  251  above.  Mutilation — apart  from  the  talio  (Ex.  21  24,  CH, 
§  196,  etc.) — is  found  only  once  as  a  legal  penalty  (Deut.  25  n  sq.\ 
but  was  common  in  both  Babylonia  (CH,  §§  192,  195,  205,  218, 
226,  253,  282)  and  Egypt  (Spiegelberg,  Studien  u.  Materialien  zum 
Rechtswesen  d.  Pharaonenreiches^  pp.  66  sq. — nose  or  ears). 


272  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  ki 

forbids  the  judge  to  receive  a  bribe,  whereas  CH, 
§  5  has  gone  further  and  inflicted  a  penalty.  It 
required  the  house-owner  to  protect  his  roof  or  the 
farmer  his  pit,  but  it  has  no  laws  upon  the  responsi- 
bilities of  the  builder.  That  laws  relating  to  trade 
and  commerce  should  fail  to  find  a  place  in  the 
Hebrew  legislation  is  not  surprising  when  it  is 
considered  how  widely  conditions  in  Israel  differed 
from  those  in  Babylonia ;  but  it  is  when  the  same 
topics  are  handled  by  both  systems  that  a  careful 
comparison  can  be  made,  and  how  frequently  the 
treatment  in  the  Old  Testament  diverges  from  that 
in  the  Babylonian  code  must  now  be  thoroughly 
apparent. 

The  prohibition  to  shun  the  doings  of  Canaan  and 
Egypt  (Lev.  18  3) — we  miss  a  reference  to  Babylonia 
— implies  that  the  Israelities  must  have  been  brought 
into  contact  with  something  more  than  the  religions 
of  the  surrounding  nations,  and  it  would  be  reason- 
able to  suggest  that  some  of  the  Israelite  laws, 
if  not  borrowed,  at  least  owed  their  initiation  to 
outside  influence.  Unfortunately,  it  is  not  easy  to 
lay  one's  finger  upon  certain  examples.1  The  as- 

yumption  that  the  parallels  which    have    been  in- 
iicated  above  are  directly  due  to  the  fact  that  at 

1  It  can  scarcely  be  maintained  that  the  law  forbidding  marriage 
with  a  sister  is  aimed  against  Egyptian  custom  (Sayce,  Early  History 
oj  the  Hebrew  s,  p.  209  sq.\  since  such  unions  were  common  in 
Israel  and  did  not  receive  condemnation  before  the  Deuteronomic 
age.  See  above,  p.  97,  and  note  that  Noldeke,  too,  suggests  that 
the  use  of  "sister"  in  the  Song  of  Songs  to  mean  "wife"  is  a 
survival  of  this  marriage  (ZDMG,  40  150). 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  273 

>»— ^^*^« 
the  time  when  the   Book  of  the   Covenant  or  the 

Deuteronomic  \code  was  drawn  up,  Hammurabi's 
Code  was  well-known  in  Israel,  would  require  an 
explanation  of  the  comparatively  small  use  which  <-• 
has  been  made  of  it.  Naturally,  laws  relating  to 
trade  and  commerce,  to  gangers  and  constables 
and  others,  would  not  be  applicable  to  Israelite 
conditions,  but  it  is  difficult  to  understand  why 
the  lot  of  the  enslaved  debtor  was  made  harder, 
why  the  rights  of  the  concubine's  children  were 
not  established,1  and  why  the  law  required  the 
shepherd  to  produce  the  mangled  remains  of  his 
cattle  whilst  in  Babylonia  the  loss  fell  upon  the 
owner  (§  266). 

In  the  law  of  the  vicious  ox  it  will  be  remembered 
that  if  its  owner  had  been  warned  and  the  animal 
had  not  been  kept  under  restraint  but  had  broken 
out  and  gored  a  man,  the  penalty  is  death  or  blood- 
money,  and  it  proceeds  to  state  most  explicitly,  that 
"whether  it  be  a  son  or  a  daughter,  according  to 
this  judgment  shall  it  be  done  unto  him "  (Ex. 
21  si).2  The  distinction  which  is  here  made  between 
the  members  of  the  family  and  the  slaves  (v.  32) 
may  be  later  than  the  general  law,  and  this  finds 
some  support  in  the  peculiar  phraseology.3  When 
it  is  remembered  that  in  certain  cases  in  the  Code 

1  The  more  humane  treatment   of  the  maidservant  in  E,  con- 
trasted with  J,  is  scarcely  due  to  CH.    Cp.  above,  p.  117  sq.,  166  sq. 

2  With   the   last  few  words  may  be  contrasted  the  Babylonian 
method  of  stating  a  similar  case  (CH,  §§  176  a  and  b}. 

3  The  Hexateuch,  vol.  2,  ad  loc. 

18 


274  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

of  Hammurabi  the  son  or  daughter  suffer  death  for 
their  father's  negligence  (§§  116,  210,  230),  it  might 
appear  plausible  at  first  sight  to  suppose  that  the 
insertion  in  the  Hebrew  law  is  deliberately  aimed 
against  Babylonian  custom.  Further  consideration, 
however,  will  show  that  this  is  impossible.  That 
particular  phase  of  the  law  of  retaliation,  whereby 
son  for  son  or  daughter  for  daughter  was  required, 
was  as  familiar  in  Israel  as  it  had  once  been  in 
Babylonia.  In  the  latter  country,  as  we  have 
already  found,  this  talio  was  not  always  strictly 
enforced,  whilst  in  Israel  the  repeated  protests 
and  denunciations  of  the  prophets,  as  late  as  the 
time  of  Ezekiel,  are  evidence  of  the  tenacity  with 
i  which  this  primitive  Semitic  usage  clung  to  popular 
custom.  It  is  certainly  a  matter  of  great  interest 
that  both  legislations  should  have  handled  the  same 
topic,  and  the  addition  to  the  Hebrew  law  must 
be  regarded  as  a  sign  of  the  growing  develop- 
ment of  humanity  in  Israel,  but  that  the  Israelite  law 
is  under  no  obligation  to  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  is 
undeniable,  since  the  latter  only  takes  into  account 
the  death  of  the  freeman  or  slave,  and  merely  inflicts 
a  fine  (CH,  §§  250-252).  The  Book  of  the  Cove- 
nant, here,  at  all  events,  is  far  behind  the  stage 
reached  by  the  Babylonian  code. 

It  is  extremely  interesting,  again,  to  observe 
that  the  Deuteronomic  law  in  favour  of  the  fugitive 
slave  (Deut.  23  15  sq.)  is  in  marked  contrast  with 
the  severe  enactments  in  CH,  §§  15-20.  But  it  can 
scarcely  be  maintained  that  it  is  aimed  against  the 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  275 

Code.  Had  the  lawgiver  been  acquainted  with  the 
Code  he  might  have  been  expected  to  betray  some 
knowledge  of  other  statutes  which,  marked  as  they 
are  by  their  fairness  and  justness,  would  surely 
have  commended  themselves.  The  statutes  for  the 
protection  of  the  unfortunate  debtor  (§§  48,  114, 
116  sq.,  119,  241)  remind  us  of  Israelite  injunctions 
and  prohibitions,  but  whilst  the  latter  appeal  to  the 
debtor's  generosity  and  are  not  always  practicable, 
the  humane  laws  in  CH  receive  the  stamp  of 
authority  and  are  intended  to  be  carried  out  by  the 
courts.  Injustice  towards  the  widow  and  fatherless 
was  forbidden  and  cursed  (Deut.  2417,  2719),  but 
one  may  search  in  vain  for  specific  laws  analogous 
to  CH,  §§  172,  177.  On  the  other  hand,  laws  re- 
lating to  the  protection  of  slaves  and  animals  from 
cruelty  or  injury  (CH,  §§  245-248,  etc.)  are  more 
probably  framed  with  the  intent  to  ensure  their 
protection  as  property,  whereas  in  the  Hebrew 
legislation  the  analogous  injunctions  spring  rather 
from  feelings  of  pure  kindness.  The  furtherance 
of  trade  and  commerce  together  with  the  protec- 
tion of  property  and  the  maintenance  of  peace 
have  tempered  the  Babylonian  laws  with  justice, 
although  the  penalties  for  their  infraction  are  fre- 
quently severe  and  brutal. 

Not  the  least  important  feature  of  the  Code 
of  Hammurabi  is  its  retention  of  legal  principles 
which  are  quite  in  accordance  with  primitive 
Semitic  thought.1  The  Semitic  stamp  is  plainly 

1  Similarly  in   his   edition  of  the  Letters  of  Hammurabi,   King 


276  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

visible,  although  the  difference  between  conditions 
of  life  in  Babylonia  and  in  Israel  is  clearly  re- 
flected in  their  respective  legislations.  Equally 
characteristic  is  the  different  setting  of  the  Code 
(the  Prologue  and  Epilogue)  compared  with  the 
framework  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  or  of 
the  Deuteronomic  law  -  book.  The  pri- 

mitive tribal  organisation,  which  has  quite  dis- 
appeared in  Babylonia,  had  already  commenced 
[^to  decay  in  Israel.  The  home  -  born  Israelite 
and  the  sojourner  (ger)  under  the  protection  of 
the  tribe  enjoyed  equal  rights,  and  the  emphasis 
which  is  laid  upon  their  equality  betrays  a  decline 
of  old  nomad  customs  —  in  the  primitive  tribal 
society  this  would  be  too  well  assumed  to  require 
any  special  mention.LjThe  care  taken  by  Israelite 
law  to  protect  strangers  finds  no  parallel  in  Baby- 
lonia. Here,  there  was  not  one  law  for  the  home- 
born  and  one  for  the  stranger — not  because  the 
Code  omitted  to  safeguard  their  interests,  but  because 
society  had  reached  that  stage  where  all  classes 
come  under  the  law  and  enjoy  its  protection.2 
Class  -  distinctions,  however,  have  arisen,  and  in 
addition  to  the  free  and  unfree,  a  special  class — 
the  "poor  man"-— has  come  into  existence,  and  for 

(p.  xlix.)  had  observed  that  the  Babylonians  of  the  first  dynasty 
"still  retained  usages  and  customs  which  had  come  down  to  them 
from  a  time  when  they  were  essentially  a  pastoral  and  nomadic 
people  and  had  no  settled  habitation." 

1  Cp.  W.  M.  Patton,  Amer.  Journ.  of  Theol  1901,  p.  726. 

2  For   the    evidence  that   foreigners   enjoyed   equal   rights   with 
native  Babylonians,  see  Sayce,  op.  tit.  pp.  191  sqq. 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION 

him  the  penalties  are  lighter  and  the  compensations 
less. 

In  comparing  the  Babylonian  code  with  the 
Pentateuchal  legislation  the  observation  is  some- 
times made  that  the  former,  by  reason  of  the 
absence  of  religion  and  religious  motives,  stands 
upon  a  lower  level  than  the  latter.  It  is  true 
that  the  magical  practices  handled  in  §  i  sq.,  and 
the  laws  relating  to  votaries  and  the  like,  only  touch 
the  externals  of  Babylonian  religion,  and/the  omission 
of  l^ws  of  cult_and  ritual  is  noticeable5  when  we 
consider  the  amount  of  space  devoted  to  them  in 
the  legal  literature  of  the  Old  Testament]  strictly 
speaking,  however, (the  comparison  is  not  a  fair  one, 
and  the  relation  between  them  is  analogous  to 
that  between  the  Syro-Roman  law-book  and  the 
Koran.  The  Code  of  Hammurabi  deals  entirely" 
with  civil  law,  and  in  this  respect  is  to  be  compared 
most  fitly  with  the  original  Book  of  the  Covenant, 
which  is  purely  secular  and  does  not_contemplate 
subjects  relating  to  religion.  Besides,!  Hammurabi 
himself,  as  his  Letters  prove,  paid  trie  greatest 
heed  to  the  due  observance  of  religious  rites  and  I 
the  proper  maintenance  of  the  worship  of  his  gods,1  \ 
and  the  omission  of  religion  in  his  Code  must  be  I 
regarded  as  intentional.  "*!  i 

Babylonia  had  its  ceremonial  laws  and  ethical 
codes,  and  the  Assyrian  seventh-century  tablet,  to 
which  reference  has  already  been  made,  affords  an 
idea  of  the  conceptions  of  sin  prevailing  at  that 

1  King,  Letter S)  no.  in.,  and  pp.  xxxi-xxxiv. 


278  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

age,  if  not  earlier.  Here  we  find,  enumerated  with 
ceremonial  faults,  such  offences  as  causing  bad  blood 
between  parents  and  children,  relatives  and  friends, 
refusing  to  loosen  captives,  sinning  against  gods 
and  goddesses,  violence  towards  elders,  hatred  of 
elder  brother,  contempt  towards  parents  or  sister, 
unfair  dealing  in  business,  lying,  use  of  false  weights 
and  scales,  injustice  in  inheritance,  removal  or  un- 
fair dealing  in  the  matter  of  boundaries  and  limits, 
and  finally  the  question :  "  Has  he  entered  his 
neighbour's  house,  approached  his  neighbour's  wife, 
shed  his  neighbour's  blood,  stolen  his  neighbour's 
garment  ?  " l 

The  mere  existence  of  such  lofty  conceptions  of 
sin  in  Assyria  at  a  period  contemporaneous  with 
the  Deuteronomic  reformation,  and  at  a  time  when 
the  Babylonian  code  was  studied  in  a  somewhat 
different  form  as  "the  Judgments  of  Righteousness 
which  Hammurabi  the  Great  King  set  up,"::  is 
naturally  of  extreme  interest.  But  the  general 
similarity  of  Assyrian  ethics  to  Deuteronomy,  in 
particular,  the  resemblance  between  the  above- 
quoted  words  and  the  Hebrew  Decalogue  should 
not  lead  to  hasty  and  far-reaching  conclusions.3 
Egyptian  literature  is  not  without  its  parallels,  and 

1  King,  Babylonian  Religion,  pp.  218-220;  Jastrovv,  Babylonian- 
Assyrian  Religion,  p.  291  ;   Zimmern,  EBi.  "Magic,"  §  2& 

2  Above,  p.  41. 

3  Delitzsch,   Babel  and  Bible,   p.    53  ;   Joh.   Jeremias,   Moses  u. 
Hamm.,  p.  35  sq.      The  latter  cites  also  from  K  3364:  "Towards 
thy  God  thou   shalt   be   of  a  pure  heart,  that   is  the  ornament  of 
deity  .  .  .  against  friend  and  neighbour  speak  nothing  vile." 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  279 

Vclter  has  emphasised  the  fact  that  several  of  the . 
commandments  in  the  Decalogue  find  noteworthy./ 
parallels  in  Egyptian  texts,  particularly  in  chap.  12q 
of  the  Book  of  the  Dead,  where  the  deceased  deni 
that  he  has  been  guilty  of  such  offences  as  cursing, 
•murder,  adultery,  theft,  false  witness,  and  covetous^] 
ness.     The   Mohammedan  parallels   in  the   Koran 
(Sur.  6,  17)  are  no  doubt  due  to  the  influence  of  the 
Old    Testament,   but  to  suppose   that   the   latter's 
ethical   conceptions    in    their    turn    are    borrowed, 
whether  from  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  or  even  from" 
Egypt,    is    an    assumption    which    is   entirely   un- 
reasonable and  without  support. 

At  what  period  the  Babylonian  code  first  be-  \ 
came  known  in  Israel  must  be  regarded  as  un-  / 
certain.  Had  Babylonia's  influence  over  Canaan 
been  at  all  powerful  before  the  entrance  of  the 
Israelites,  or  even  during  the  reigns  of  David  and 
Solomon,  we  should  have  expected  to  find  the 
clearest  traces  of  the  Code  in  the  earliest  literature. 
Such,  however,  is  not  the  case,  and  it  must  be 
acknowledged  that  this  result  is  of  some  importance 
for  the  general  questions  considered  in  chap.  ii. 
The  parallels  which  have  been  noticed  comprise  the  \ 
treatment  of  the  same  topic  and  an  agreement  in 
the  employment  of  the  same  principles.  But  the 
topics  are  treated  upon  different  lines,1  and  the 
principles,  e.g.  the  talio  and  the  ordeal,  are  of  too 
general  a  nature  to  admit  of  the  supposition  that 
they  took  their  rise  in  Babylonia.  A  certain 

1  So,  especially,  in  the  laws  of  the  vicious  ox,  p.  273  sq.  above. 


280  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

similarity   of    structure    in    the    formulae   was    also 
observed,  but  the  evidence  was  not  conclusive. 
When  we  came  down  to  the  Deuteronomic  code 

Iit  was  still  impossible  to  discover  unambiguous  ex- 
amples of  borrowing.  Owing  to  the  much  greater 
scope  of  this  collection  of  laws,  further  parallels 
with  CH  were  to  be  found,  and  the  setting  of  this 
Code  —  the  introductory  historical  matter  and  the 
concluding  blessings  and  cursings1-— may  possibly 
imply  that  CH  was  not  unknown  to  Israelite  scribes 
Iby  the  commencement  of  the  sixth  century. 

The  exilic  age  cannot  have  failed  to  make  the 
Jews  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  working  of  the 
Babylonian  code,  and  it  is  from  this  period  onwards 
that  the  indications  tend  to  grow  ever  more  un- 
mistakable. In  the  first  place,  the  tradition  that 
?ytheir  father  Abraham  came  from  Ur  of  the  Chaldees 2 
now  becomes  prominent.3  Even  Hammurabi  him- 
self must  find  a  place  in  early  Hebrew  history, 
and  he  accordingly  appears  as  a  contemporary  of 
Abraham,  although  merely  to  enhance  the  glory  of 
the  latter.4  The  age  of  the  narrative  (Gen.  14)  is 
unfortunately  far  from  certain.  It  is  a  unique 
chapter,  whose  fictitious  character  is  very  generally 
recognised,  but  whether  the  name  is  derived  from 
eighth-century  material  (Kittel,  Konig)  or  is  due  to  a 

1  P.  15  above.  2  See  above,  pp.  18,  41. 

3  Gen.    11  31  (P);    cp.   Neh.  9  7,  Judith  56,    Jubilees   118,  Jos. 
Ant.  i.  7  i,  Acts  7  4.     There  are  reasons  for  believing  that  in  Gen. 
11  28  (J),  15  7  (E),  the  name  has  been  inserted  by  later  hands. 

4  The  name  Amraphel  with  initial  aleph  agrees  with  the  alternative 
spelling  Ammurabi  (King,  Letters^  p.  Ixv.  sq.  n.  4). 


CHAP,  xi  CONCLUSION  281 

post-exilic  writer  (so  the  majority  of  critics) l  is  an 
open  question.  It  is  of  greater  importance  to  notice^ 
that  it  is  not  until  the  Exile  that  we  find  Assyrian  | 
words  in  the  terminology  of  trade,  and  it  is  in  the 
literature  of  this  period  that  features  relating  to 
cult  and  ritual  begin  to  betray  a  significant  re- 
semblance to  Babylonian  usage.  Descending  still 
further,  the  minute  precision  of  Talmudical  legis- 
lation shows  signs  of  an  acquaintance  with  Baby- 
lonian law,  and  the  Babylonian  origin  of  the  legal 
phraseology  becomes  most  clearly  marked.2 

In  conclusion,  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  is  of  no 
little  importance  for  the  discussion  of  the  general 
extent  of  Babylonian  influence  over  Canaan.  The 
evidence,  it  will  have  been  noticed,  does  not  suggest 
that  Israelite  legislation  was  to  any  considerable 
extent  indebted  to  Babylonia,  and  the  parallels  and 
analogies  which  have  been  observed  are  to  be 
ascribed  most  naturally  to  the  common  Semitic 
origin  of  the  two  systems.  But  the  view  of  Joh. 
Jeremias,3  that  the  resemblance  between  them  is 
due  to  the  fact  that  both  come  from  Arabia,  is  not 
entirely  correct.  The  relationship  can  scarcely  be 
attributed  to  direct  borrowing  from  Arabia — with 
greater  probability  it  may  be  affirmed  that  Arabia, 
which  has  best  preserved  Semitic  characteristics, 

1  E.g.    Kuenen,   Stade,   Wellhausen,    Meyer,    Kautzsch,   Addis, 
Cheyne,  and  G.  F.  Moore. 

2  N.  M.  Nathan,   Orientalistische  Litteraturzeitung,  April   1903, 
col.  182;  Hermann  Pick,  Assyrisches  und  Talmudisches,  pp.  21-33 
(Berlin,  1903). 

3  Above,  p.  30. 


282  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES  CHAP,  xi 

ontinued  to  retain  the  primitive  principles  of  law 
nd  justice  which  the  Semites  of  Babylonia  and 
anaan  developed  in  different  directions.  It  is  to 
the  Arabia  of  the  nomads — not  to  the  little  known 
seats  of  culture  and  civilisation l — that  we  must  turn 
for  Semitic  legislation  in  its  earliest  form,  and  our 
scanty  evidence  must  be  supplemented  and  illus- 
trated by  the  customs  of  the  equally  primitive 
fellahln  and  bedouin  of  modern  Palestine.2 

Primitive  Semitic  legislation,  seen  at  its  best  at 
the  present  day,  advances  through  the  earliest 
Hebrew  laws  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  and  the 
Code  of  Hammurabi  (now  four  thousand  years  old) 
to  the  post-biblical  legislation  of  the  Jews,  the  Syro- 
Roman  law-book  of  the  fifth  century  of  this  era,  and 
the  later  codes  of  Mohammedan  schools.  The 
growth  of  Semitic  law — as  indeed  of  all  law — is  the 
growth  of  culture  and  civilisation  : 

"  Oppida  coeperunt  munire  et  ponere  leges." 
1  See  pp.  30  sqq.  above.  2  Cp.  p.  39  sq.  above. 


ADDENDA 

SINCE  the  preceding  pages  were  sent  to  press  the 
literature  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi  has  rapidly 
increased.  It  has  been  translated  into  Italian  by 
Dr.  Francesco  Mari,  and  new  English  translations 
are  promised  by  Prof.  R.  F.  Harper  (Chicago),  and 
Mr.  Boscawen.  Dissertations,  lectures,  and  articles 
continue  to  appear  with  regularity,  and  there  is  no 
reason  to  believe  that  the  interest  which  the  Code 
has  aroused  will  diminish.  In  his  Gesetze  Ham- 
murabis  (Zurich,  1903)  Georg  Cohn  draws  attention 
to  analogies  to  the  Babylonian  code  in  the  old 
German  laws,  and  doubtless  similar  analogies  from 
other  quarters  could  be  multiplied  by  students  of 
comparative  custom.  The  present  study,  however, 
apart  from  a  few  illustrations  from  the  Indian  Laws 
of  Manu,  restricts  itself  to  the  Semitic  field,  and 
even  in  this  department  the  available  material  has 
not  been  drawn  upon  so  completely  as  could  have 
been  desired.  In  particular,  as  regards  the  customs 
of  the  more  primitive  representatives,  there  is  room 
for  considerable  development,  and  some  idea  of  the 
possibilities  is  to  be  obtained  from  the  traces  of 
early  law  among  the  Abyssinian  Bogos  to  which 

283 


284  THE  LAWS  OF   MOSES 

Hubert  Grimme  has  directed  attention  (Das  Gesetz 
Chammurabis  und  Moses,  Cologne,  1903). 

As  regards  the  main  problem,  the  relationship 
between  the  Code  and  the  laws  of  Moses,  it  is  not 
sufficient  to  say  that  "a  relationship  is  undeniable." 
Whether  the  parallels  and  analogies  are  due  to  the 
direct  influence  of  Babylonia  or  to  the  common 
Semitic  origin  of  Babylonians  and  Israelites  is  dis- 
puted. The  latter  of  these  views  is  the  one  urged 
by  the  present  writer,2  and  he  has  found  no  sound 
arguments  as  yet  in  favour  of  the  former.  Only 
the  theory  that  Palestine  had  long  been  under 
Babylonian  influence  would  render  the  former 
reasonable,  and  if  this  be  assumed  it  is  difficult  to 
understand  why  Israelite  law  shows  no  signs  of 
Babylonian  terminology.  But  the  assumption  is 
one  that  is  not  to  be  made  too  readily.  Signs  are 
not  wanting  of  a  certain  impatience  among  Assyri- 
ologists  at  the  extent  to  which  the  theory  of  Baby- 
lonian influence  has  been  pushed,  and  at  the  manner 
in  which  support  has  sometimes  been  claimed  for  it. 
It  is  not  unnecessary,  therefore,  to  utter  a  warning 
against  the  tendency  to  over-estimate  the  importance 
of  Assyriology  for  biblical  study.  Its  value  is  un- 
deniable, but  the  results  must  be  viewed  in  their 
true  perspective.  The  "  wand  of  cuneiform  re- 
search "  has  not  caused  all  the  difficulties  of  the 
Old  Testament  to  vanish ;  it  has  brought  fresh 

1  The  Guardian,  22nd  April,  p.  559. 

2  Cp.  also  Fried.  Kiichler  in  Die  christliche  Welt,  no.   23,   5th 
June ;  and  Grimme,  op.  cit. 


ADDENDA  285 

problems.  Further,  it  has  brought  an  accumulation 
of  material,  with  the  result  that  Assyriology — like 
the  Arabic  lexicon — can  be  used  to  support  almost 
any  view.  How  prolific  are  its  resources,  how 
inexhaustible  its  treasures,  is  excellently  displayed 
in  Winckler  and  Zimmern's  Keilinschriften  und  das 
Alte  Testament,  which — though  few  will  recognise 
in  it  a  new  edition  of  Schrader's  famous  work — is 
indispensable  for  the  study  of  the  cuneiform  inscrip- 
tions and  the  Bible.  That  there  is  room  for 
renewed  research,  for  careful  testing  of  older  views, 
will  scarcely  be  denied,  and  perhaps  it  is  in  the 
shape  of  monographs  dealing  with  special  inquiries 
that  the  study  can  best  be  advanced.  Thus,  as 
regards  the  absence  of  Babylonian  legal  terminology 
in  old  Hebrew,  to  which  reference  has  already  been 
made  (see  also  below,  note  to  p.  207),  the  philo- 
logical argument  is  stronger  than  usual,  and  such  a 
study  as  that  by  Prof.  R.  D.  Wilson,  on  a  com- 
parison of  the  leading  ideas  of  Babylonia  and  Israel 
based  upon  their  vocabularies,  is  a  type  of  the 
monographs  now  most  opportune.1 

Page  65,  n.  I.  Wellhausen's  statement  (Arab.  Held.™  p.  189) 
appears  to  relate  to  Christian  and  not  to  Mohammedan  custom  (see 
G.  Jacob,  Altarab.  Beduinenlebenj®  p.  212). 

Pages  72,  1.  2  ;  93,  11.  4-7.  In  the  New  Babylonian  period, 
however,  the  wife  was  no  longer  qualified  to  act  as  witness  (Daiches,2 
p.  19  ;  on  the  position  of  woman,  see  also  zV/.,  p.  85  sq.\ 

Page  91,  n.  i.      InCH,  §161,  the  lover  is  called  be-el  as-sa-tim^ 

1  Princeton  Theological  Review ',  April  1903,  pp.  239-255. 

2  "  Altbabylonische  Rechtsurkunden  aus  der  Zeit  der  Hammurabi- 
dynastie,"  in  Leipziger  Semitistische  Studien,  vol.  i.  heft  2  (1903). 


286  THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 

with  be-el  as  in  §  129  (cp.  p.  77).  Johns  renders  "  the  claimant  of  the 
wife,"  but  the  literal  translation,  "owner  of  the  wife"  (as  in  §  129)  is 
to  be  preferred.  This  use  of  assat  suggests  that  in  §  1 30  (p.  i  o  i )  the 
law  may  refer  to  the  violation  not  of  a  man's  wife,  but  of  his  betrothed. 

Page  101.     See  notes  on  pp.  91,  114. 

Page  112,  n.  2.  The  rendering  "shackles"  (servitude)  for  ab-bu- 
ut-tum  seems  improbable  in  view  of  §  226  sq.  ;  ab-bu-ti  ardi  la  se-e- 
im  u-gal-li-ib  (Daiches,  op.  cit.,  p.  98,  n.  3). 

Page  114,  1.  4  from  end.  "They  shall  shave  off  her  hair."  So 
Pinches,  but  the  original  is  u-ga-la-ab-si  (Daiches,  p.  95),  and  the 
preferable  translation  is,  "  They  shall  put  a  mark  upon  her "  ;  see 
above,  pp.  102  (foot),  159.  Daiches  (p.  96  sq.)  points  out  that 
the  maid's  fidelity  to  her  master  and  husband  is  not  stipulated  in 
the  contract,  and  observes  that  this  throws  some  light  upon  the 
episode  of  Reuben  and  Bilhah,  etc.  (see  the  references  above,  p.  97, 
n.  4).  The  deeds  of  Reuben,  Abner,  Absalom,  and  Adonijah  were 
not  crimes,  but  acts  of  presumption  and  offences  against  good  morals. 
David's  concubines  were  not  put  to  death,  but  simply  placed  in 
confinement ;  they  received  maintenance  (cp.  p.  1 18  above),  but  were 
not  free  to  marry  again,  at  least  during  his  lifetime.  Cp.  also  §  158 
(p.  10 1  d],  where  intercourse  with  the  father's  wife  (not  the  man's 
own  mother)  is  lightly  visited  (contrast  c). 

Page  143,  n.  i,  1.  2.     Cp.  also  p.  168  (head). 

Page  157.  §  279  is  illustrated  by  a  contract  of  the  time  of 
Abesu,  relating  to  the  purchase  of  a  female  slave,  wherein  the 
responsibility  of  the  seller  for  any  subsequent  dispute  is  said  to  be 
"  in  accordance  with  the  king's  law  "  (kima  si-im-da-at  sarriin)  ;  see 
Daiches,  pp.  91  sq.,  94,  n.  2,  who  refers  also  to  §  51  (p.  231  sq. 
above).  For  the  phrase,  it  may  be  noticed  that  Hammurabi,  in  one 
of  his  letters  (King,  p.  39),  orders  Sin-idinnam  to  give  judgment 
"according  to  the  law"  (ki-ma  si-im-da-tiin). 

Page  174,  n.  3.  On  apalu,  "to  make  compensation  for,"  see 
Daiches,  p.  41. 

Page  196  sq.  My  attention  has  been  drawn  to  the  fact  that  my 
suggestion,  that  the  law  in  Lev.  199,  23  22  took  its  rise  in  ceremonies 
relating  to  the  corn-spirit,  has  already  been  made  by  Fr.  Schwally, 
Semitische  Kriegsaltertiimer,  186  sqq.  (Leipzig,  1901). 

Pages  207,  foot,  265  sqq.,  281.  Grimme  (p.  44),  too,  emphasises 
the  fact  that  had  Israelite  law  borrowed  from  CH  we  should  have 


ADDENDA  287 

expected  to  find  Babylonian  legal  terms  in  use ;  only  dayyan  (see 
above,  p.  55),  "judge,"  and  din,  "judgment,  suit,"  occur  to  prove 
that  both  Babylonian  and  Hebrew  are  offshoots  of  the  one  original 
Semitic  tongue.  So  the  use  of  bdal  and  its  equivalent  be-el  in  the 
two  legal  systems  (p.  77  above)  is  no  proof  of  borrowing,  and  it  is 
worth  noticing  that  the  slave's  master  is  not  called  bdal  in  Hebrew, 
but  a  different  term  (adonlm)  is  used  (pp.  165,  171). 

Page  243,  n.  I.  The  Septuagint,  too,  thinks  of  magical  potions  ; 
cp.  the  meaning  of  the  root  k-s-ph  as  suggested  by  Robertson  Smith 
(see  EBi.  «  Magic,"  §  3  [2]). 

Page  247  and  n.  4.  In  §  224  sq.  the  veterinary  is  described  as  a 
cow  or  ass  doctor.  "  Sheep  doctor,"  Mr.  Johns  informs  me,  is  due 
to  a  slip  of  the  pen. 

Page  253.  The  essential  difference  between  the  two  codes,  as 
Grimme  points  out  (p.  39),  appears  in  the  fact  that  CH  deals  with 
an  intentional  assault  upon  the  woman,  whereas  in  the  Hebrew  law 
she  is  the  victim  of  an  accident.  See  below. 

Page  268  sq.  The  differences  are  worked  out  at  greater  length 
by  Grimme  (pp.  36-43)  who  sums  up:  "Numerous  cases  which  the 
Book  of  the  Covenant  handles  are  wanting  in  the  Code  of  Ham- 
murabi ;  frequently  both  deal  with  the  same  case  but  with  different 
results.  Where  the  same  case  is  treated  in  the  same  manner  by 
both,  the  common  source  is  the  customary  Old  Semitic  law  reach- 
ing back  to  long  before  the  time  of  Hammurabi.  Direct  influence 
of  the  Code  upon  Mosaic  penal  law  must  be  held  to  be  out  of  the 
question."  In  like  manner,  H.  P.  Smith  (Old  Testament  History, 
p.  174),  speaking  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  observes:  "its 
simplicity  when  compared  with  the  code  of  Hammurabi  confirms  its 
independence.  The  points  of  resemblance,  some  of  which  are 
striking,  are  features  common  to  oriental  society." 

Page  280,  n.  4.  The  final  consonant  of  Amraphel  has  not  yet 
been  satisfactorily  explained.  Hiising  ingeniously  joins  it  to  the 
following  word  and  renders,  "  And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  days  of 
A-m-r-ph,  as  Arioch  king  of  Ellasar  was  over  Shinar  [Babylonia], 
that  Chedorlaomer,"  etc.  (A.  Jeremias,  Im  Kampfe  um  Bibel^  13  ; 
Winckler,  Abraham  ah  Babylonier,  23,  n.  i).  But  the  reading  is  an 
awkward  one,  and  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  failure  to  explain  the 
Hebrew  form  constitutes  one  objection  to  its  identification  with  the  name 
Hammurabi  (see  also  Johns,  in  the  Expositor  October,  pp.  282-293). 


INDEX  TO  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI 


For  -an  abstract  of  its  contents  see  above  pp.  8-10.  The  more  important 
references  (containing  a  translation,  paraphrase,  or  abstract  of  the  law  in  question) 
ire  printed  in  heavier  type.  Small  inferior  figures  refer  to  the  footnotes  upon  the 
page  cited.1 


Section  in  the 
Code. 

Page. 

Section  in 
Code. 

Page. 

1 

241  sq.  ,  277 

34 

.   185,  214 

2 

64,  102,  242,  277 

35 

.   186 

1  *.  . 

67 

36 

.   185 

5 

BBsq.,  2153,  271  sq. 

37 

.   186,  230l 

6 

211,  214,  216 

38 

186  sqq. 

7 

138,  154,  207,  211, 

39 

.  186,  188 

225,  2474 

40 

.  186 

8 

1743-  211,  2474, 

41 

.   187 

2652,  270 

42 

.  190,  199 

9 

592,65,  214,217.??. 

43 

.  190,  192 

9-13  . 

270 

44 

.   190  sq.,  192,  199, 

10  sq.   . 

217 

2004 

12 

215,  217 

45-47 

.   191 

13 

217 

48 

.   230,  233l,  275 

14 

169,  214,  241,  269 

49 

.   231 

15 

156 

49  sqq. 

•   2322 

15-20  . 

I7il5  274 

50 

.   231 

16 

156,  218 

51 

.   210,  231  sq.* 

17 

157 

52 

.   231 

18 

136,  156 

53  sq. 

.  198  sq.,  270 

19 

157 

55  sq. 

.  199,  270 

20 

60,  157 

57 

•   77 

21 

160,  212  sq.  ,  260 

57  sg. 

.   200,  270 

22    : 

214 

59 

.   77,  193,  197 

23 

60 

60 

.  192,  197 

23  sq.  . 

214,  255,  270 

61  sq. 

.   192 

25    .    . 

212,  260,  27ij 

63 

.  192,  199 

26 

185 

64  sq. 

•   *93 

27  sq.   . 

186 

Lacuna.3 

29 

131.  186 

100-102 

.   238 

30  sq.   . 

186  sq.  ,  191 

103 

.   60,  238 

32  sq.   . 

185 

104  sq. 

.   238  sq. 

1  For  other  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  laws  (some  of  which  probably  belonged  to  the  Code), 
ee  pp.  3,  832,  85,  87,  io32,  121,  123,  129,  144,  155,  161,  1754.  i888,  2003,  231,  244. 
1  See  the  Addenda,  p.  286  (to  p.  157).  3  See  p.  9,  and  n.  i  above. 


289 


290 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


Section  in  the 
Code. 

Page. 

Section  in  the 
Code. 

Page. 

106  sq.   . 

.   60,  239 

153 

103,  121,  27ij 

108 

.   211,  27l! 

154 

100,  1743,  271 

109 

.   150,  241 

155 

74,  100  sq.,  271 

110 

.   149,  27ij 

156 

753-  100 

111 

.   211 

157 

101,  107,  150,  271 

112 

215,  239 

158 

101,  271 

113 

.   230 

159*/.  . 

80,  911 

114 

•   229,  275 

161 

ii' 

115 

.   230 

162 

87 

116 

155,   230,   250, 

163    .    . 

82,  833,  87,  90 

274  sq. 

164 

82,  87,  89  sq. 

117 

.   161,  1642,  2284, 

165 

89,  138  sq. 

229,  233,  267^., 

166 

74,  139 

275 

167 

113,  140 

118 

.   161,  229,  268 

168*7.  . 

136 

119 

.   161,  229,  268,  275 

170 

in,  140,  161 

120 

.   60,  77,  226 

171 

82,  89,  140  sqq., 

121 

.   225 

161 

122  sq.   . 

.   225  sq. 

172 

753-  89.  I36i>  1*2, 

124  sqq.  . 

215,  225  sq. 

275 

125 

.   270 

173*7.  . 

88,  142 

126 

.   60,  225  sq. 

175 

162 

127 

.   102,   1294,   160, 

176 

162,  268,  273 

27*1 

177 

143,  275 

128 

.   81 

178 

148 

129 

.   77,  101,  103,  105, 

178  sqq. 

89  ! 

121,  271 

179 

147 

130 

91,  101,  105,  271 

180-182 

148 

131 

•  60,  753,  102,  105, 

183 

146 

1  08  sq. 

184 

139,  146 

132 

.   64,  102,  109 

185 

133 

133 

.   122,  271 

186 

133,  1352 

134-136  . 

•   75.3-  122 

187 

134 

135 

.   130 

188  sg.  . 

133 

137 

.  753,   112,   119, 

190 

133-  135 

1254,  131,  1432 

191 

135  sq. 

138 

.   no,  119 

192  sq.  . 

134,  271! 

139-141  . 

.   120 

194 

130 

142 

•  753,   103-   121, 

195 

134,  137,  268,  27ij 

1254,  136! 

196 

2711 

143 

.   121,  27Il 

196-198 

250 

144 

.  Ill 

199 

155,  250,  269 

144  .w.  . 

.   113  sgg. 

200-204 

250  sq. 

145 

.    Ill,  II2J 

205 

160,  250  sq.  ,  271., 

146 

112,  116  sq.,  1293, 

206 

61,  1743,  254,  260, 

154,  1  60  sg. 

269 

147 

.   112,  142,  161,  268 

207 

254  sq.  ,  260,  269 

148 

.   113,  118  sq. 

208 

254  sq.  ,  260 

149 

.   75  3,  113,  118*7. 

209 

252 

150 

82,  89,  90,  139, 

209-214 

269 

1414 

210 

252,  261,  274 

151 

.   228  sq. 

211-213 

252 

152 

.   I74S,  229 

214 

155.  252 

1  See  the  Addenda,  p.  285. 

INDEX  TO  THE  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI        291 


Section  in  the 
Code. 

Page. 

Section  in  the 
Code. 

Page. 

215 

247,  253 

250 

251 

216 

247 

250  sqq. 

269,  274 

217 

155.  247,  253 

251 

252  sq. 

218 

247,  271  1 

252 

155,  252  sq. 

219 

247 

253 

1  60,   174, 

220    .    . 

155,  247 

2711 

221  sq.  . 

247 

254-256 

174 

223 

ISS,  247 

257^.  . 

173 

224^.  . 

247  s?.1 

259  j?.  . 

199,  215 

226 

159,  27ix 

261 

173 

227 

61,  159  s?.,  212 

262 

1751(  262 

228 

245 

262-265 

2474 

229 

77,  245 

263  sq.  . 

175 

230 

245,  261,  274 

265 

175,  2ii2 

231 

155,  245 

266 

61,  77,  175, 

232^.  . 

245 

2641,  273 

234  sq.  . 

220 

267 

175,  177,  270 

236-239 

221 

268-270 

199,  2134 

240 

60,  221 

269 

2474 

241 

229,  234,  275 

271  sq.  . 

200 

242  sq.  . 

199 

273 

172 

244 

1754,  178^  222, 

274 

173 

264},  270 

275-277 

220 

245 

77,  222 

278  *?.  . 

157  x 

245-248 

275 

280 

158 

246-248 

222,  224 

281 

60,  77,  158 

249 

60,  1754,  178^  222, 

282 

160,  27^ 

264^  270 

215. 


177 


1  See  the  Addenda,  p.  287. 

2  See  the  Addenda,  p.  286. 


19  a 


INDEX  OF  BIBLICAL  PASSAGES 


The  references  are  to  the  English  Version  throughout, 
numbers  refer  to  the  notes  on  the  page  cited. 


The  small   inferior 


GENESIS 

Page. 

221-24 

•  "5 

4l2 

424. 

!  216 

1128,  31  . 

2803 

Il3o. 

.   116 

11  31. 

.  28o3 

12  10-20 

.  106 

14   . 

.   280  sq. 

14i  . 

.   7,  IT  sq. 

149  . 

.   17  sq. 

14i4. 

•   i64l 

15  1-4 

.  163 

15  7  . 

.  28o3 

16  . 

II  6  sqq. 

17X2. 

.   i64l 

19  . 

.   103 

20i-i7 

.  106 

209  . 

•  494 

20i2  . 

•  972 

21   . 

116  sq. 

21  10  . 

.   117.  141 

21  21  . 

•   74 

2133  • 

i953 

23   . 

.  38,  208 

24   . 

.  163 

244  • 

•  74.  99 

2422,  53     . 

8ij 

2436  . 

.   138,  141 

24  50  sqq.  . 

•   74 

24s8  . 

•  75 

25s  sq. 

.  141 

266-n,  13  . 

.  106 

2635  • 

.  76 

2746  . 

.  76 

29i9  . 

•  99 

2925  . 

.   81 

2926  . 

.  494.  81 

GENESIS 

Page. 

29  31-33 

2934    • 

IIIo 

30  1  sqq. 

.     116 

303      . 

.     140 

309     . 

.     116 

3022      . 

ni2 

8031  sqq. 

.     176 

31  7  sq. 

.     176 

31  14-16 

-     83 

31  32    - 

.      211  sq. 

31s8  J?. 

.      176  sq. 

31  50   . 

.      86 

33  19    . 

•      38 

34 

104,  128 

347      • 

•     494 

348      . 

•     75 

3430  sq. 

.      104 

3522       . 

•      974 

3725,  28, 

36  .          .      206  j 

386     . 

•      74 

38  ii    . 

•      145 

38  17    . 

.      82 

8824    . 

.      107,  124 

449      • 

.        2I4l 

44  17    . 

.        214 

47  13  sqq. 

•        235 

485      . 

494      . 

•     974 

497      . 

.     104 

EXODUS 

2i-io 

.     i34 

620    . 

.     97 

18 

•     19.  56 

20  1-17. 

.     See    below, 

"  Decalogue, 

p.  301. 

293 


294 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


E 

XODUS 

LEVITICUS 

207      . 

Page. 

5i      . 

Page. 

210 

2023-26 
21-23  . 

.      2663 
.     See        below, 

6  1-7    . 

65       . 

y 
.      219,  227 
.      67 

'  '  Covenant, 

17-26   . 

.     See       below, 

Book  of,"  p. 

"  Holiness, 

301. 

Law  of,"  p. 

21  2          . 

.      265  sqq.  ,  268 

303- 

21  2  sqq. 

.      164  sq. 

18 

.     97 

21  3      . 

.      268 

183      . 

.     272 

217-n  . 

1  66  sq.,  268 

186      . 

.     98! 

219     .         • 

•     83 

18x8      . 

•      "Ss 

21  12        . 

170,  261 

1823     . 

.      1152 

21  12-14 

.     254,  269 

19 

.     46 

21  12-17 

.      266 

193      . 

.     72 

21  «s    . 

.     722,  137.  268 

199      . 

.      196 

21  16    . 

169,  241,  269 

19  13     . 

.      171 

21  17    . 

•      722,  137 

19  15     . 

•     655 

21  18  sq. 

.    254,  269 

19  16      . 

102 

2l2o  sq. 

.    170,  254 

19  19     . 

.196 

2122        . 

.     46i,   554,    253, 

1920         . 

.        I67 

257,  269 

19  23*7. 

.        197 

2123        . 

.     266 

1929 

149 

2123-25 

.     2492,  253 

1936     . 

2O6 

2l24        . 

.        271! 

20 

.     97 

21  26  sq. 

170,  254,  269 

20g 

•      137 

2128-32 

.     252,  269 

20n  sqq. 

.      271 

2130     . 

.     461,  554'  257 

20x4      . 

ioo3,  106,  271 

213i     • 

.      i622,  273 

20i5  sq. 

IZ52 

2132        • 

.    257 

20x7      . 

.     271 

2133-36 

223,  246 

2020  sq. 

.     98,  271 

22  1-4  • 

.     213,  215,  2i61( 

2027      . 

.     243 

2652,  270 

21  1  sqq. 

.      94 

222  sq. 

.    2564 

21  2       . 

223      • 

270 

21  7        . 

.      103,1124,1242 

225  sq. 

197,     201    sq.  , 

21  9       . 

.      106 

266lF  270 

21  12  sq. 

.     94 

.     61,  226,  270 

21  14     . 

103,  112^,  1242 

61,  218,  270 

2322         . 

196 

22  io  sq. 

6i,ji77^.  ,  270 

.7 

22  12  sq. 

.      177,  270 

25 

.      188 

22*4  sq. 

.      223  sq. 

253*. 

.          .      196 

22i6j?. 

.      461,  103 

25xo     . 

.        229! 

22x8     . 

.      243 

25  20-22 

196 

22x8-239 

.      266 

2535  sqq. 

•        170,    233 

22i9     . 

IX5 

2549     • 

.        164 

2222          . 

.     145 

25S3     - 

•        173 

222S-27 

•      233  sq. 

27i5,  19 

.             .       67 

23  1       . 

.      68 

233       • 

•      65s 

NUMBERS 

234       . 

.      219 

5  5-8    . 

•     2193 

236-8     . 

65,5 

57 

.     67 

23  io  sq. 

196 

58        . 

23  io-  19 

.     266 

611-31 

.      108  sq. 

24  14     . 

.      268 

5  19-22 

.        249l 

INDEX  OF  BIBLICAL  PASSAGES 


295 


NUMBERS 

DEUTERONOMY 

Page. 

Page. 

11 

.      S62 

2222         . 

.     106 

2029  . 

.      i682 

2223    . 

.     78 

21  9       . 

.     24635 

2223-29 

.     104  *. 

2659    . 

.     97 

2224    . 

.      91,  108 

27 

•      145 

2228  *. 

.      46! 

81x7*. 

IOI2 

2229    . 

.     84  j,     108    *., 

31  27     . 

•     43  1 

124 

35 

•     258 

22  30     . 

.     97 

35  30     . 

.     68 

23  15  *. 

.      171.  274 

36 

•     J45 

24  x-4    . 

.      124  *. 

246      . 

.     234 

DEUTERONOMY 

247      . 

.      169,  241 

lg  sqq. 

.     56 

24  xo  sq.  , 

12*.,          .          234 

42 

.     15, 

24x4*. 

.          171 

442         . 

.         .     6i! 

24x6     . 

.          26l 

56-21    . 

.     See    below, 

24x7     . 

.     6sB>  234,  275 

"Decalogue," 

25  x-3    . 

.     251 

p.  301. 

25xx  *. 

.       251,    27^ 

521 

.     72 

25  13-16 

.      206 

7  10    . 

.       261! 

27x6     . 

•      137 

1232         . 

•     i58 

27x7     - 

.      194 

15i-n  . 

•     233 

27x9     . 

-     65* 

15l2-l8 

.      167 

2720,  22  *.   .         .     97 

16  18-20 

•     57 

2721     . 

•       "52 

16i9     . 

-     65s 

2863     . 

•     I37i 

176      . 

.     68 

348      . 

.      i682 

177      - 

.     258 

178-13. 

•     57 

JOSHUA 

17i7      • 

.     115 

15x6      . 

.     78 

18  10*. 
19  1  1  *. 

•     243 
•     258 

JUDGES 

19  12         . 

•     57 

122         . 

.     78 

19i4       - 

•     194 

5x4      . 

•     55 

19is     . 

.     68 

8*.  . 

•     54 

19i7*. 

•     57.  63 

830     . 

.     115 

19  19     . 

.     67 

83x     . 

.     76 

1921          . 

.      2492 

92           . 

.     115 

207      • 

.      78 

112,  7  . 

.     141 

20  13  *. 

.      168 

14  x  sqq. 

.     76 

20  19     • 

.      197 

15x       . 

.      77,  82j 

21  1-9    . 

.      256 

172           . 

219 

21  a,  5  • 

•     S7i 

17xo      . 

•      173 

21  10-14 

.      167 

1725         . 

;           •       763 

21i5-i7 

1  1  6,  140 

187      . 

.        210 

21l8-2I 

•      137 

19 

.        103 

22  x-3    . 

219 

192-4      . 

.        I2Sl 

226  *. 

•      I972 

21  *.   . 

IOT2 

228      . 

.     245 

229      . 

.      196 

RUTH 

22  13     • 

•      1254 

222         . 

.     105 

2213-21 

107,  109 

3I7     . 

•     75i 

22xs  *. 

•     57 

42           . 

•      59 

22  19     • 

.        46  j,    109,     120, 

47  *. 

.      209 

124                               4xo  sq. 

.     208 

296 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


i  SAMUEL 

x 

CHRONICLES 

Page. 

Page. 

12            . 

.      116 

234  sq. 

.     163 

16,  10 

n6j 

2725-31 

.      188 

2s      • 

169 
61 

2 

CHRONICLES 

7  16  sq.  ,  8 

•      554'  58  sq. 

19 

•     57 

814      • 

182,  1872 

EZRA 

9  3-8,  22 

.      163 

5,    TI 

1734^- 

.      177 

*J  Jt     L  L 

4i>i 

1825      . 

.      78 

NEHEMIAH 

222 

•      233 

5 

•     233l,  235 

24  15     . 

•     55 

5«     . 

25  10     . 

.     171 

97        • 

.     28o3 

254i     . 

.     166 

25  42     . 

I45i 

JOB 

2544      • 

I25i 

24      . 

.     2490 

283,  9,  21 

.     241 

9  19     • 

30  24  sq. 

•     431 

1326         . 

•     654 

1619     • 

.        210 

2  SAMUEL 

20  19     . 

.        235 

234      . 

268, 

37      • 

814      - 

•     974 
.      125 

242      . 
243      • 

•      i9Si 
.     234 

5  13     • 
126      . 

.      215  sq. 

29  7  sqq. 
31  ii     . 

•     59 
io62,  268 

13 

13  12         . 

•      972 
.     494 

31i3-i5 
3128     . 

164 
.     268, 

1323         . 

•      i872 

3135      . 

.          -     6s/ 

\£?q\ 

152           . 
1622         . 

.     56 
.      i872 
.     56,  268a 
•     974 

33  to,  34s 
41  4        • 
42iS     . 

•      173 

.      146 

1723         - 

.      138 

PSALMS 

2424     . 

38 

27  sq. 

.     1404 

2  10    . 

•     55 

i  KINGS 

685     . 

•     55 

222         . 
226         . 

•     974 
.      i872 

80  16    . 

1015    - 

.       2022 
IO2 

239      • 

.      171 

PROVERBS 

816-28 

.     56,  130 

2  17     . 

.     86 

831  sq. 
9x6      . 

.     63 
.     86 

222         . 

59      . 

•      J37i 
•      I053 

11  1-3     • 

115 

61       . 

209 

143i,  152 

20  39  sq. 

•     99 
.      169! 

6  1-5     • 

631     • 

•     235 
.     215 

21 

•     55 

634  sq. 

2  KINGS 

7  19  sq. 
11  15      . 

•     237 
•     235 

4i       . 

.     169,  233 

1525         . 

r95i 

52-4       . 

.     i66x 

172           . 

.     163 

812     . 

•      169! 

17  18      . 

•     235 

146       . 

261 

20  16     . 

•     234 

149       • 

•      75 

2020         . 

137 

15s      • 

2226     . 

209 

20  1       . 

;    '.  138 

2228,  23  10 

•      *95i 

INDEX  OF  BIBLICAL  PASSAGES 


297 


PROVERBS 

HOSEA 

Page. 

Page. 

27  13     - 

.    234 

2*7.    . 

I25i 

2924     . 

219 

5  10 

195! 

30  17     . 

.    129 

77      - 

•     55 

3023     . 

.  163 

812    . 

.     44 

12  12         . 

.     176 

CANTICLES 

13x6      . 

169 

4  12,  etc. 

272j 

AMOS 

13,  13 

.     i69j 

ISAIAH 

26        . 

.     169 

27       . 

ioo3 

lag 

56 

3  n 

J77i 

36  sq. 

O 

•     SSi 

8s      • 

.      2063 

4i      . 

.    144 

5s,  24 

.        202o 

MlCAH 

163      , 

•     553 

Ix4      . 

.     862 

223      • 

•     SSi 

3i        . 

•     55 

27  ii     . 

.       2022 

39      . 

•     55  sq. 

81  4        • 

.        177 

76       . 

49  15     . 

722 

508      . 

.     268! 

ZECHARIAH 

544      . 

.      144 

53      • 

.     219 

546      . 

.        II24,    125! 

11  13     • 

.     176 

6613     . 

.       722 

MALACHI 

2i4      . 

.     86 

JEREMIAH 

3s      • 

.     171 

2x4      - 

234      • 

.     213 

TOBIT 

3i       . 

.     124 

614      . 

.      173 

34      . 

7i4,  821 

.      86 

21  1  1  sq. 

i    :  ss1 

92           . 

•      237 

22  13     . 

.    171 

31  30     . 

.    261 

JUDITH 

326  sqq. 

.      188,  208 

56        . 

.     28o3 

32n,  14 

209  j 

87     . 

348  sqq. 

.        170,    229!,   233 

BARUCH 

EZEKIEL 

643  • 

.     149 

154l  6. 
168 

.       2O22 

.     86 

MATTHEW 

1633      • 
1640      . 

.     82l 

.      106 

625  sq. 

538     . 

•     235 
.     2492 

18 

19  12         . 

.      47,  261 

2O2  g 

1345      • 
154        • 

•     237 
•     237 

22  ii     . 
40  sqq. 

4422         . 

•   '972 
.     46 

.        H24 

18x6      . 
20  1  sq. 

266o     . 

.     68 

•     173 
.     68 

45  10-12 

.       206 

46i6-i8 

.     188 

MARK 

46  17     - 

.       229l 

10  12          . 

126 

298 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


198 


85    . 

10l2 


LUKE 


JOHN 


ACTS 


Page. 
215 


106 
177 


.      280 


i  CORINTHIANS 

Page. 

.  176 


2  CORINTHIANS 


13 


68 


i  TIMOTHY 
619     .        .        .         .68 


or  " 
UNIVERSITY 

or 

£AL»FQJL™ 


GENERAL  INDEX 


The  small  inferior  figures  relate  to  the  notes  upon  the  page  cited.  The 
following  abbreviations  have  been  used  :  Ar.  —Arabic,  Aram.  =  Aramaic,  Bab.  = 
Babylonian  or  Assyrian,  Heb.  =  Hebrew,  Syr.  =Syriac.  For  a  general  rtsumi 
see  above  pp.  8  sqq. ,  and  the  references  in  the  Index  to  the  Code  of  Hammurabi 
(pp.  289-291). 


a,  thinning  to  i,  233 

Abatement  of  rent,  \gzsq.  ;  of  interest, 
230 

Abesu,  letter  of,  156,  286 

Afiot  (Heb. ),  pledge,  234  j 

Abraham,  traditional  contemporary  of 
Hammurabi,  18,  41,  280  ;  purchase 
of  cave  of  Machpelah,  38,  208.  See 
Hagar 

Abit  (Bab.),  husband,  father,  I2X 

Abuttals,  183 

Accad,  ii  ;  Accadians,  49 1 

Accessory,  160 

Accidental  loss,  175,  177  sq.,  191  sqq., 
225  sq. ,  230 

Achan,  sacrilege  of,  211 

Act  of  God.     See  God 

Adad,  14,  191,  230 

Adjournment  of  case,  218 

Adjuration,  63  sq. ,  219 

Adoption  of  children,  131  sqq.  ;  in 
Israel,  1404  ;  their  rights  of  inherit- 
ance, 135  sq. 

Adultery  in  Babylonia,  103,  114,  121  ; 
in  Israel,  104  sq. ,  108,  271  ;  later 
Jewish  law,  109.  See  Slander 

Agents,  relation  to  merchant,  237  sqq. 

Agriculture,  among  nomads,  i8i2; 
in  Babylonia,  188  sqq.  ;  in  Israel, 
194  sqq. 

Ahi-wadum,  26 

Ai  (divine  name),  27 

Akbaru  (Heb.  'akbor?),  23 

Alimony,  i222,  131.  See  Mainten- 
ance 


Allotment.     See  Benefice 

Allowance.     See  Abatement,  Alimony 

Alphabet,  Semitic,  32  sqq. 

Alteration  of  contracts,  230 1 

'Am  (Heb.),  "family,"  21 

Amah  (Heb. ),  maid-servant,  116,  i66j ; 
Babylonian  amtu,  in,  ii22 

Amarna  tablets,  evidence  of  Babylonian 
influence,  35  sq.  ;  cited,  273,  56 lf  78, 
1693,  260 

Amat-samas,  "  maid  of  Samai, "  149 

"Amen,"  formula  in  oaths,  623,  227 

Ammi-saduga,  21 

Ammi-saduka,  22 

Ammi-Satana,  22,  35  sq. 

Amraphel  =  Hammurabi,  18,  28o4,  287 

Amtu.     See  Amah 

'Anath,  26 

Anu,  71 

Anunnaki,  the,  15  a 

Approval,  slave  bought  on,  157;  goods 
on,  158  ;  land  on,  186  sq. 

Arabia,  research  in,  2  ;  A.  and  Israel, 
19  ;  A.  and  Babylonia,  21  sqq., 
29  sq.  ;  home  of  Semites,  29  sq., 
281  sq.  See  Minean,  Sabean 

Arabian  origin  of  dynasty  of  Ham- 
murabi, 19  sqq. ,  34  sq. 

Arad-Elali,  26 

Arad-Samas,  marriage  of,  113  sq. 

Aramaeans,  22  sqq. ,  28;  shepherds, 
178 

Aramaic,    dialects,   22  sq.,   25, 
legal  papyrus,  235 

Arioch,  17 


299 


3oo 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


Arson.     See  Burning 

Artisans,  adopt  children,  133  ;  wages, 

172  sq.     See  Labourers 
'ASdm  (Heb. ),  blood-guiltiness,  106 
Ass,  199,  211,  2474,  287.     See  Cattle 
A  ssat  (Bab.),  wife  =  betrothed,  91^  286 
Assaults,  upon  slaves,  155,  250,  254  ; 

upon    free    men,    249    sqq.  ;    upon 

women,  252  sq. 
Assessment  of  damage,  for  assault,  255, 

259  ;    for   damage   by   cattle,    200  ; 

for  destruction  of  trees,    193.     See 

Average  yield,  Neglect 
Assignment  for  debt,  of  family,   161, 

164,  229  ;  of  fields,  231 
Assur,  earliest  mention,  8 
Asurbanipal,    library,    with   fragments 

of  Babylonian  laws,   6  (cp.  ^l)t  41, 

244.     See  above,  p.  289,  n.  i 
Asylum,  258 

Attachment,  198.     See  Assignment 
Aunt,  marriage  with,  97  sq. 
Average  yield  as  assessment  for  damage 

or  negligence,  190  sq.,  192  sq. ,  199. 

See  Assessment 

Baal  (Heb.),  Bab.  be-el,  owner,  hus- 
band, 77,  92,  286  sq.  ;  Baal- mar- 
riage, 73  sq.,  gosq.,  no,  124 

Bab  (Bab.),  gate,  seat  of  judgment, 
42  sq. 

Babylon,  n,  16 

Babylonia,  culture  and  laws,  3  ;  society 
in,  contrasted  with  Semites,  48  sq. ; 
influence  over  Canaan,  19,  35  sqq. , 
279 

Bairu  (Bab.),  officer,  1843 

Banishment.     See  Exile 

Bars  to  marriage,  97  sqq. 

Bastinado,  45,  251,  27ij 

Beasts,  wild,  damage  by.     See  Lion 

Bedouin,  retention  of  primitive  customs, 
39^,282;  illustrations,  52,60,63,70, 
783,  79,  81,  92  sqq.,  g82,  992.  104 
sq.,  107,  io8lf  ii6lf  1253,  I26,  13*11 
1434,  1444,  167^  1713,  1783,  181, 
i88lf  193  sqq.,  197^  1983,  201 3, 
2133,  2144,  2islt  2163,  223,  227, 
2321,  233,  2521(  2S3V  255,  259, 
26 1  j.  See  Custom,  primitive 

Bel,  5,  7,  10  sq.,  13,  16,  26 

Bel-kasir,  marriage  of,  131  sq. 

Belti,  13 

Benefices,  under  the  state,  1313,  184 
sqq.,  187  sq. 

Bennu  (Bab.),  sickness,  157 


Betrothal,     80   sq.       See    Breach    of 

Promise 

Betrothed  maiden,  residence  of,  with 
father  or  father-in-law,  91^  101, 
286 

Bigamy,  in  Babylonia,  in  sqq.  ;  in 
Israel,  115  sqq. 

Bil-iddanu,  guardian  of  temple  of 
Samas,  218 

Blessings  upon  the  law-abiding,  12  sq., 
15  sq. 

Blood,  sacredness  of,  50  sq.  ;  blood- 
revenge,  50  sqq.,  104,  257  sqq.  \ 
blood-money,  255  sq. 

Boats,  laws  relating  to,  220  sqq. 

Bond,  for  legal  purchase,  207  ;  mar- 
riage, 81  sq. ,  101  ;  deposits,  225. 
See  Alteration,  Contracts 

Boundaries.  See  Abuttals,  Land- 
mark 

Branding,  102,  129  ;  of  slaves,  159^., 
212 

Breach,  of  promise,  79  sqq.  See 
House-breaking,  Neglect 

Breasts,  mutilation  of,  130 

Bribery,  65  sq.,  271  sq. 

Bride,  purchase  of.  See  Mahr,  Pur- 
chase-price, Tirhatu 

Broker,  2373 

Brothel,  150 

Builder,  of  house,  responsibility  for 
accidents,  155,  245  sq.  ;  payment 
of,  245  ;  boat-builder,  220 

Bull,  injury  by,  251  sq.,  273  sq. 

Bunu-Anati,  26 

Burglary.     See  Theft 

Burial  in  house,  160,  212  sq. 

Burning,  as  a  penalty,  106  sq.,  150, 
212,  243  sij.  ;  burning  of  crops, 
202  ;  theft  from  burning-house,  212  ; 
in  sympathetic  magic,  244 

Business,  3,  38,  204-239,  265,  272  sq. 

Canaan,  Babylonian  sway  over,  17  sq.  ; 
culture  of,  53  sq.  ;  Canaanite  origin 
of  Hammurabi's  dynasty,  18  sqq., 
34  sq.  See  Babylonia 

Canals  in  Babylonia,  198  sq.,  221 

Capital  suit,  67 ;  capital  crimes,  see 
Death  penalty 

Cappadocia,  contract-tablets  from,  24 

Captives,  121,  154,  167  sqq. 

Carrier,  responsibilities  of,  215,  239 

Cattle,  general  laws  relating  to,  174 
sqq.,  213,  222  sqq.  ;  damage  by 
251  sq.,  273  sq.  ;  injury  to,  222,^.; 


GENERAL  INDEX 


301 


hire  of,   199  sq.  ;  royal  cattle,   176, 
186 

Centralisation  of  justice,  44  sq. 

Ceremonial  laws,  277  sq. 

Changeling,  130 

Charming,  prohibited,  241  sq. 

Chastity  in  Babylonia,  101  sq.  ;  Israel, 
103  sqq. 

Childlessness,  in  sq. ,  116 

Children,  of  slave-birth,  140  sq. ,  162, 
165  ;  sold  for  debt,  169  ;  improve 
status  of  mother,  94  sq.,  in,  161  ; 
relations  between  children  and 
parents,  128  sq.,  137.  See  Adop- 
tion, Childlessness,  Concubine, 
Courtesan,  Disinheritance,  Inherit- 
ance, Mother 

Code  of  Hammurabi,  discovery,  4 ; 
other  fragments,  3,  6  (see  p.  289,  n. 
i);  Prologue,  6  sq. ;  contents  of  Code, 
8  sqq.  ;  Epilogue,  10  sqq.  ;  later 
history,  41  ;  origin,  42,  264,  281  sq. 

Collision,  221 

Commerce.     See  Business 

Common  lands,  171,  180  sqq.  ;  in 
Babylonia,  184,  iggl 

Compensation,  for  death  of  distrainee, 
230.  See  Neglect,  and  cp.  chap. 
x. 

Concubine,  in  sq. ,  114,  161  ;  in 
Israel,  116  sqq.  ;  children  of,  rights 
of  inheritance,  140^.,  161 

Constable  (Bab.  ba'iru],  laws  relating 
to,  184  sqq. 

Contracts,  3,  61,  65,  75,  81  sq. ,  84 
sqq. ,  89,  101,  123,  141,  204,  207, 
225,  231.  See  Alteration,  Bond 

Corn,  190  sqq.,  211  ;  storage,  225  sq.  ; 
as  payment,  173  sq.,  199  sq. ,  221, 
230  sqq. 

Corn-spirit,  197,  286 

Corporate  liability,  214,  255  sq. 

Courtesan,  children  of,  134 ;  inherit- 
ance rights,  147  sq. 

Courtship.  See  Betrothal,  Breach  of 
promise 

Cousins,  marriage  of,  98  sq. 

Covenant,  Book  of  (Exod.  21-23), 
43  ^.,  55,  206,  241,  258,  268  sqq. 

Cow.     See  Cattle 

Creditor.     See  Debt 

Crops,  given  for  debt,  231  sq.  ; 
damaged  by  storm,  191  sq.  ;  in- 
undation, 199,  270;  cattle,  200  sqq.  ; 
fire,  202  sq. ,  266,  270 

Crown-lands,  184  sqq. 


Curse,   63  sq.  \   upon   the  lawless,    13 

sqq. ,  1 6 

Custody  of  children,  130  sq. 
Custom,  primitive,    i  sq. ,   42,   49,  60, 

181,    234,    263   sq.,    275   sq.      See 

Bedouin 
Cuthah,  7 

Dagon,  7,  25  sq. 

Damage  feasant,  200 

Damages.  See  Assaults,  Cattle,  Com- 
pensation, Crops 

Daughter,  inheritance  rights  of,  145 
sq.  ;  source  of  wealth,  77.  See 
Marriage 

Daughter-in-law,  91,  100 

Dayydn  (Heb. ),  judge,  55,  287 

Death  penalty,  for  adultery,  103  sq. , 
106,  114;  lack  of  filial  regard,  137; 
theft,  156,  211  sqq.  ;  illegal  branding, 
1 60  ;  receiving  stolen  property,  217; 
illegal  business,  225  ;  inflicted  upon 
animals,  252.  See  Burning,  Drown- 
ing, Execution,  Impalement,  Stoning 

Debt,  hostage  for,  161  ;  laws  relating 
to,  228  sqq. ,  275 

Decads  in  legal  codes,  10 

Decalogue,  the,  44,  106,  26ij,  266, 
278  sq. 

Defamation.     See  Slander 

Degradation  from  office,  66 

Deity,  giver  of  decisions,  58.     See  God 

Deposit,  laws  of,  225  sqq.  ;  deposit  on 
payments,  173!,  244 

Desertion  of  wife,  121  sq.  ;  of  adopted 
parents,  134.  See  Repudiation 

Deuteronomy,  45  sq.,  206,  241,  266, 
278  ;  "blessings  and  cursings,"  15, 
194,  280 

Dilbat,  8 

Dinah,  seduction  of,  104 

Dishonesty,  of  labourer,  174  sq.  ;  in 
trade,  206  ;  in  lost  property,  216  sqq. 

Disinheritance  of  sons,  101,  136  sq.  ; 
of  adopted  sons,  135 

Distraint,  229  sq. ,  234 

Divorce,  freedom  of,  for  the  man,  109  ; 
in  Israel,  124;  Arabia,  125  sq. , 
Syria,  127;  for  adultery,  109  :  child- 
lessness, in  ;  extravagance,  izosq., 
forbidden,  105,  109;  claimed  by  the 
woman,  120  sq. ,  126;  children  of 
divorced  woman,  130^.  See  Separa- 
tion, Uzubu 

Doctor.      See  Physician 

Donatio  ad  causam,  248 


302 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


Donatio   propter    miptias,     77.       See 

Nudunnu 

Dowry.     See  Marriage-portion 
Drink,  price  of,  210  sq. 
Drowning,  27 ij.      See  Water,  ordeals 

by 
Durdru  (Bab.),  159^  229  x 

Ea,  ii,  13,  16,  58 

Eabani,  story  of,  963,  115 

Ear,  cutting  off  of,  160  :  boring  of,  165 

E-barra,  15 

Egypt,  influence  over  Canaan,  37 ; 
law  and  custom  of,  references  to,  45 -,, 
54,  58,  62,  68  sqq.,  983,  1035,  127, 
iSo2,  2I2l,  233,  2473, 2561(  267, 27i1( 

273lf   279 

El,  ii 

Elali-wakar,  26 

Elamites,  6,  73,  9,  17 

Elders,  54  sqq. ,  107,  256.  See  Sheikh, 
Sibutv,  Ztkentm 

Eliezer,  slave  of  Abraham,  163 

Ellasar,  7 

Emancipation  of  slaves,  170 

Epilogue  of  the  Code,  10-15 

'£ras(Heb.),  to  espouse,  lit.  to  pay,  78 

Eri-aku,  17 

E-sag-gil,  ii  sq. 

Ethical  laws,  443,  463,  277  sq. 

'Ethnan  (Heb. ),  gift,  82 

Evidence,  how  taken,  65  sqq.,  217 

Execution  of  sentence,  52  sq.,  257,  259 

Exile,  penalty  for  murder,  51  ;  incest, 
100  ;  negligence,  174.  See  Disin- 
heritance 

Eye,  torn  out,  134  ;  disease  of,  247  ; 
loss  of,  by  assault,  249  sq. ,  254 

Fallow,  196 

False    swearing,     63    sq.,     69,     219; 

judgment,    66   sq.  ;    evidence,    67 ; 

accusation,  102,  107  ;  claims,  226 
Family  laws  of  old  Babylonia,  129  sq. ; 

modification  of,  135 
Farm,  tenure  of,  189,  193  sq. 
Father.     See  Abu 
Favourite   of    palace,    134 ;    favourite 

son,  89,  138  ;  wife,  139 
Fees.       See   Boats,     Hire,    Physician, 

Wages 

Fields,  names  of,  1833 
Fines,    45    sq.  ;    for    seduction,    100, 

103  sqq.  ;  slander,    107  sqq. ;  injury 

to  slaves,    155  ;    negligent  labourer, 

174  ;    injury  to  cattle,   222  ;    negli- 


gence of  doctor,  247  ;  for  assaults, 

250  sqq. 
Fire,  damage  to  crops   by,   202    sq.  ; 

theft  at,  212. 

First-born,  rights  of,  116,  139  sq. 
Fishing-rights,  198 
Flood,  damage  by,  198  sq. 
Forbidden     degrees.       See     Bars     to 

marriage 
Forfeit  of  purchase  money,   143,   186  ; 

of  debt,  230 
Foster-parents,  130  sqq. 
Fruit,  fruit-trees,  197.     See  Gardener 
Fugitive  slaves,  156  sq. ,  274 

Gallabu  (Bab. ),  brander,  159;  cp.  102, 

286 

Ganger,  laws  of  the,  184  sqq. ,  2324 
Gardener,  laws  relating  to,  192  sq. 
"  Gate,"  seat  of  judgment,  39,  58  sq. 
Gebtreth  (Heb.),  mistress,  116,  i66j 
Gideon,  marriage  of,  115 
Gillah  kdndph,  'erwdh  (Heb.),  uncover 

the  skirt,  etc. ,  98 1 
Girsu,  8 
God,  giver  of  decisions  and  laws,  4  sq. , 

42,  58,  263  ;  in  ordeals,  64  sq.  ;  wife 

of  the  god  Marduk,  148  ;  act  of  God, 

175  3,  191  sq. ,  222,  230,  270  ;    oath 

before,  see  references  on  p.  60  sq. 
Gael  (Heb.),  alleged  Bab.  equivalent, 

144 

Goring  ox.     See  Bull 
Government,  in  Babylonia,  3  ;    among 

nomads,  52  sq. ;  in  Canaan,  54  sqq. 
Governors,  responsibility  of,  214,  255  ; 

act  as  judges,  57.     See  Magistrate 
Granary,  storage  in,  225  sq. 
Guardian,  of  young  children,   130  sq., 

143  ;    of  labourers,    172,   174.     See 

Wall 
GUR    (Bab.  )  =  i   shekel  of  silver  =  300 

KA,  i9ilf  1994,  2253 

H  m  Bab.  for  Heb.  'ain,  21  j 
Hdbal  (Heb.),  to  pledge,  234  j 
Hagar  and  Sarah,  116  sqq. 
ffalluru  (Bab.),  235  sq. 
Hammurabi,  age  of,  3  ;  history,  17  sq. ; 

dynasty,  18-34  ;  name,  21,  2804287; 

letters  of,  17,  56,  66,  172,  176,  183, 

i851(   1985,   2iilf   22i2,    232,  277, 

286.     See  Code 
Hand  of  God.     See  God,  act  of 
Hands,  amputation  of,   137,   159  sq., 

215.  247 


GENERAL  INDEX 


303 


Harvest,  festivals,  197 ;  price  of  drink 
at,  2ii  ;  repayment  at,  232 

Henotheism,  distinct  from  monothe- 
ism, 28 

Herdsmen,  laws  relating  to,  175  sqq., 
200  sq. 

Herodotus,  1199,  149;  1197,  246;  2133, 
267 

Hierodule,  148 

Highway  robbery,  214 

Hilal,  26 

Hire,  of  labourers,  172  sq. ;  cattle,  199. 
See  Lease,  and  below 

Hired  goods,  cattle,  injury  to,  174, 
219  sqq. 

Hireling,  171,  184  sq. ,  224.  See 
Labourer 

Hirer,  duties  of,  155 

girtu  (Bab.),  young  wife,  120;  cp. 
122,  140,  142 

Holiness,  law  of,  46  sq. 

Homicide.     See  Manslaughter 

Horse,  theft  of,  216  3 

House,  189  sq. ,  244  sq.  ;  house  to 
house  search,  156,  218  ;  house- 
breaking,  212  sq. 

Hulwdn  (Ar. ),  marriage-gift,  82 

Humanity,  274  sq. 

flumsa  (Ar. ),  tribal  unit,  26 ix 

Husband,  purchases  wife,  73  sqq.  See 
Baal,  Marriage 

Hypothecation  of  corn-field,  231 

lamlik-ilu,  21 

larbi-ilu,  21 

la-u,  li-u-um-ilu,  26 

'Idda  ( Ar. ),  period  of  enforced  widow- 
hood, 1 68 

Ignorance,  pleas  of,  61,  160,  254 

Ilu,  7 

Iluna,  in  Samsu-iluna,  21  sq. 

Impalement,   121 

Imprisonment,  235 

Incest,  97  sqq. ,  100  sq. 

India.     See  Manu,  laws  of 

Inheritance,  laws  of,  87  sqq.,  90, 
135  sq. ,  138  sqq. ,  I522.  See  Children, 
Concubine,  Courtesan,  Widow 

Injury  to  persons,  cattle,  etc.  See 
Assaults,  Cattle 

Innocence,  oath  of,  60  sqq. 

Interest,  231,  235  sq.,  238;  rate  of, 
228  ;  forbidden,  233 

Intestacy,  151  sq. 

Intimidation  of  witnesses,  67 

Irrigation,  regulation  of,  197  sqq. 


Islam.     See  Mohammedan  custom 
Israel,  entrance  into  Canaan,   53  sq.  , 

Israelite  law,  42  sqq.  and  passim 
Istar,  8,  11,  14,  72,  96,  ioo3,  148 

Jealousy,  ordeal  of,  64,  108  sq. 

Jerry-builder,  245 

Jephthah,  son  of  a  concubine,  141 

Jethro,  19,  56 

Jewish  law,  later,  reff.  to,  47,  62  3,  671, 
84,  88V  122,  i241(  laij,  i42j,  145, 
1463,  1583,  1593,  i70lt  2,  I771(  178, 

i831(  3,  1932'    I96,   I985«  2O1'  222> 

224  sq.,   227,   239,   246,  2513,  255, 

281 
Josephus,    reff.    to,    1253,    126,    1973, 

214,  219,  233,  243^  2S32,  255,  259 
Josiah,  reforms  of,  41,  45 
Jubilees,   Book  of,  reff.    to,  8i4,    972, 

107,  28o3 
Judge,  253,  271  sq.  ;  in  Israel,  54  sqq.; 

Egypt,   70  ;    Babylonia,  57  sq.  ;    on 

circuit,  58  ;  laws  relating  to,  65  sqq. 
Judgment,    procedure,   50,   52  ;    false, 

66  sq.  ;  by  default,  217 
Jus  talionis.     See  Talio 


KA   Bab.=*for  GUR,  191,  1994.  2253 

Kallatu  (Bab.),  bride,  ioo2 

Kasin  (Heb.  ),  ruler,  55 

KSthubtd  (Targ.),    dowry,    82  2,    142, 

145 

Kidnapping,  169,  241 
KI-GAL  (Bab.),  unreclaimed  land,  1903 
King,  240  sq.  ;    appeal  to,  for  justice, 

56,  66.      See  Hammurabi,  letters  of 
King's  standard,  231  sq. 

La-ah-bu-um  (Bab.),  wasting  sickness 

(?),  us, 
Labourers,  154  ;  wages,  171  sqq.  ;   re- 

sponsibilities,   174.      See   Artisans, 

Hireling 
Lalu  (Bab.),  young  animal  for  thresh- 

ing, 199  sq. 

Land,  180  sqq.  ;  hire  of,  190  sq. 
Landlord.     See  House 
Landmarks,  183  ;  removal  of,  194  sq., 

278 

Larsa,  73,  17 
Laws,  take  their  rise  in  tribal  custom, 

i  sq.  ,   49  sq.     See  Bedouin,  Jewish 

law,    Mohammedan    custom,    Syro- 

Roman  law-book,  Legal  terminology 
Lease,  189*?.,  193^/7.,  244  sq. 
Legal  terminology,  207,  265  sqq.,  281 


3°4 


THE  LAWS  OF  MOSES 


Levirate  marriage,  144 

Leviticus,  legislation  of,  47 

Libel.     See  Slander 

Li-e-it  (Bab.),  strength  (?),  250  sq. 

Lion,  ravage  by,  175,  177,  222 

Lost  property,  216  sqq. 

Lying.     See  False 

Magical  practices,  241  sqq. 

Magistrate,  laws  for,  185.  See 
Governor,  Judge 

Mahr  (Ar. ),  77,  82.    See  Purchase-price 

Maid -servant,  154 ;  taken  as  wife, 
in  sq. ,  114,  116,  161,  166  ;  viola- 
tion of,  105.  See  Concubine 

Maintenance  of  wife,  119,  121  sq.  See 
Alimony 

Maknubi-ilu,  23 

Manslaughter,  distinguished  from 
murder,  254,  257  sq.  See  Murder 

Manu,  laws  of,  65,  87^  179,  i8o1( 
1993,  20i3,  2i21(  2173,  218,  227,  249 

Marduk,  7  sq.,  10  sqq.,  16,  28,  59; 
votary  of,  148 

Marine  insurance,  220  sqq. 

Marriage,  types,  73  sq.,  76,  90  sqq.  \ 
bars,  97  sq. ;  with  near  relations,  97 
sqq. ;  in  Israel,  166.  See  Bigamy, 
Concubine,  Incest,  Monogamy, 
Separation,  Widow 

Marriage-portion,  84  sqq. ,  87  sqq. ,  go 
sg.,  118-121,  126.  See  Seriktu 

Marriage  settlement,  89  sqq.,  118  sq. 
See  Nudun(n}u 

Merchant,  185,  228  j,  237  sqq. 

Mthokek  (Heb.),  ruler,  54 

Mtkirtd  (Syr.),  the  "sold  one,"  78 

Mice,  loss  caused  by,  2254 

Minean  inscriptions,  24,  31  sq. 

Minor,  143,  208,  225 

Miscarriage,  252  sq. 

Mishnah.     See  Jewish  law,  later 

Mohammedan  custom,  reff.  to,  75,  78 lf 
84^  90,  93,  98,  ioi3,  no3,  in, 
123,  126,  1392,  145,  1623,  166, 
i682,  182,  187,  2193,  256,  258  sq. , 
279 

Mohar  (Heb.),  77.     See  Purchase-price 

Monarchy  in  Israel,  53,  182 

Money,  232  ;  money-lending,  228  sqq. 

Monogamy  in  Israel,  115 

Monotheism  in  Babylonia,  18,  27  sqq., 
34  ;  among  other  Semites,  28  sq. 

Morals,  laxity  of,  96,  115 

Moses,  42,  134,  263 

Mofa,  type  of  marriage,  76,  91 


Mother,   marriage  with,   97  sq. ,    101  ; 

has  care  of  children,  130  sq.      See 

Children 

Mourning,  94,  168 

Murabbd  (Ar.), fourfold  restitution,  216 
Murder,  50  sqq. ,  214,  254  sqq. 
Muskinu    (Bab.),    a    special    class   of 

society,  1203,  276.    See  "Poor  man" 
Mutilation,    251,    27 ix.       See    Breast, 

Ear,  Eye,  Hand,  Tongue 

Nabatsean  illustration,  i62j 

Naboth,  story  of,  55,  182 

Nabu-apla-iddina,  inscr.  of,  42)  52*  !6j 

Nadan  (Heb. ),  marriage-gift,  82 j 

Ndru  (ilu).     See  River-god 

Nasdhu  (Bab.),  to  eradicate, expel,  i37j 

Nazarite,  150 

Nedeh  (Heb.),  marriage  gift,  82 

NSdiinyd  (Heb.),  i.q.  Nudun(n}u 

Neglect,  on  the  part  of  physician,  155, 
247;  shepherd,  175,  177  sq. ;  culti- 
vator, 182,  186  sq.,  190  sq.,  231; 
gardener,  192  sq.  ;  irrigator,  198  sq. ; 
boatman,  220  sq. ;  hirer  or  borrower, 
224;  builder,  245;  cattle-owner, 
251  sq. 

Nergal,  14 

Nergal-itir,  marriage  of,  99 

NER-SE-GA  (Bab.),    I34j 

Ndsek  (Heb.),  interest,  2334 

Nin-a-zu,  7  sq. 

Nineveh,  8 

Ninib,  patron  of  landmarks,  183 

Nin-karak,  15 

Nin-marki,  gate  of,  59 

Nin-tu,  7,  14 

Nippur,  16 

Nudun(n)u  (Bab.),  husband's  gift  to 

wife,  77,  82  sq.,  141  sq. ;   i.q.   New 

Bab.  seriktu,  83,  852,  144 
Nun-gal,  gate  of,  59 
NU-PAR  (Bab.),  virgin,  148! 
Nurse,  130 

Oath.     See  references  on  p.  60  sq. 

Offenders,  first,  136 

Operations,  fees  for  performing,  247 

Oracles,  64  sq. 

Ordeals  by  water,  64  sq.,  102,  108  sq., 

242 

Outlawry.     See  Exile 
Ox.     See  Bull,  Cattle 

Palace,   favourites  of,   134 ;    slave  of, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3°5 


156  ;    court   of  inquiry,    150,   156  ; 

theft  from,  211  ;  ransom  by,  185 
Pa-la-samas,  22 
Parental  authority,  128,  137 
Patria  potestas,  not  among  Semites,  93 
Penal  law,  growth  of,  257  sq. 
Penalties,  restitution,  67,  213,  215  sq. 

See  Death  penalty,  Fines,  Mutilation, 

Stoning,  and  cp.  p.  271 1 
Pentads  in  legal  codes,  10,  268 
Perjury,  63 
Philology,  bearing  on  the  problem  of 

Hammurabi's  dynasty,  24  sqq. 
Phoenician,  273,  206,  210,  222,  2373 
Physician,  fees  and  responsibilities,  155, 

246  sqq. ,  254 
Pledge,   for  debt,  232,   234,  236  ;   of 

betrothal,  81 
1 '  Poor  man. "    See  Muskinu.    Receives 

special  treatment  in  §§8,  140,  198, 

2OI,    204,    2O8,   211,    2l6,   219,    222 

Polyandry,  982 
Polygyny.     See  Bigamy 
Pre-emption,  188 

Pregnant  woman,  assault  upon,  252  sq. 
Price  of  drink,  210  sq. 
Priestesses  of  temple,  148  sq.,  228 
Promise,  breach  of.     See  Breach 
Property  in  common,  1972 
Prostitution  in  Babylonia,  149  sq. 
Purchase-price,   77  sq. ,   84,  103  sqq. ; 

disputes,    79   sq. ;    used    as   dowry, 

82  sq.,  90 

Rahab,  a  taverner,  150 

Rameses  IX.,  law-suit  of,  69 

Ransom  of  captives,  161,  168,  185  ;  of 

murderer,  252,  259 
Rape.  See  Seduction 
Receipt,  for  deposits,  etc.,  225,  238  sq. ; 

for  wife's  dowry,  84  sq. 
Receiver  of  stolen  property,  216  sqq. 
Religious  laws,  277  sq. 
Re-marriage,  753,  88  sq.,  119,  121  sqq., 

124  sqq. ,  142  sqq. ,  168 
Remission  of  penalty,  103  ;  debt,  230, 

233 

Rent,  of  house,  244.     See  Land,  Lease 

Repudiation,   of  parents   by  children, 

129,   134  ;    of  children  by  parents, 

129,    135  sq. ;    of  master  by  slave, 

160  ;  of  husband  by  wife,  103,  114, 

120   sq. ;   of  wife   by  husband,   see 

Divorce,  Separation 

Restitution  for  theft,    215  sqq.,    270; 

loss  of  deposit,   225  sq. ;    injury  to 

20 


cattle,    175,    222 ;    injury  to   slave, 

245.  247 

Retaliation.     See  Restitution,  Talio 
Reward  for  capture  of  fugitive,  157 
Rimanni-Bil,  adoption  of,  1323 
River-god,  64,  102,  242 
Roman   law,    93,    128,  151    sq.       See 

Syro- Roman  law-book 
Runaway  slaves,  156  sq. ,  171 

Sabean  inscriptions,  24,  31  sq. 
SAB-GUD  (Bab. ),  i73j 
Sacrilege,  211  sq. 
Saddk  (Ar. ),  marriage  gift,  82 
Sadika   (Ar.),   a    marriage    type,    76, 
IJ5 

SAGAN-LAL  (Bab.),   2373 

Sale  of  persons,  161,  164,  170^  198, 

214,  270 

Salome,  divorce  of,  126 
Samas,  the  sun-god,  4  sq. ,  13  sq. ,  16, 

58  sq.,  218.     See  Amat-Samas 
Samas- nuri,  purchase  of,  114 
Samson,  marriage  of,  76 
Samsu,  21 
Samsu-iluna,  7,  21 
Sarah  and  Hagar,  116  sq. 
Sargon,  134 
Scandal.     See  Slander 
Scourging.     See  Bastinado 
SE  (Bab.^y^  shekel,  1724 
Security,  234  sq. 

Seduction,  100  sq. ,  103  sqq.,  271 
Seed,  mixture  of,  forbidden,  196  ;  pro- 
vided by  landlord,  194 
Separation  of  man  and  wife,  753,  100, 

102,  113, 118  sq.,  121  sq. ;  division  of 

property,  163 
Seriktu  (Bab.),  gift,  marriage-portion, 

78,  82  sq.,  140,  142,  146  sq.,   162. 

See  Nudun(n)u 

Settlement.     See  Alimony,  Nudun(n}u 
Sevenfold  restitution,  215  sq. 
Shaduf,  water-wheel,  2i52 
Sheep,  shepherd,  laws  relating  to,  175 

sqq. ,  200  sq.     See  Cattle 
Sheep-shearing,  176  j 
Sheikh,  "elder,"  duties  of,  52  sq. 
Shinar,  18 
Ship.     See  Boats 
Sibittu  (Bab.),  pledge,  234! 
Sibutu,  witness,  58!,  69 1 
Sin,  moon-god,  26 
Sin-mubalit,  8 

Siphhah  (Heb. ),  servant,  1661 
Sippar,  5  sq.,  15,3,  16,  66 


306 


THE  LAWS   OF  MOSES 


Sirritu  (Bab.  =  Heb.  sdrdh],  fellow- 
wife,  1 15  3 

Sister,  marriage  with,  97  sq.,  100,  272^ 
Slander,  81,  102,  107  sq.,  271 
Slave,  adoption  of,  132  ;  protection  of, 

155,  170;     purchase    of,    157   sq. , 
emancipation    of,     170 ;     marriage, 
162  ;    in  Israel,   163  sqq. ;    fugitive, 

156,  274 

Slavery,  153  sqq.\  as  a  penalty,  75, 
112,  161,  169,  214 

Softer  (Heb.),  trader,  237,3 

Sopket  (Heb. ),  an  official  title,  55,  2563 

Sorcery,  241  sqq. 

Soter  (Heb.),  a  military  official,  54 

Stepmother,  marriage  of,  97,  101 

Stolen  property,  receiver  of,  216  sqq. 

Stoning,  106,  108 

Storing  of  corn,  225  sq. 

Strangers,  276 

Strangulation,  106 

"Strength"  of  man,  assault  upon, 
250  sq. 

Subletting  of  fields,  191 

Suicide  in  Egypt,  45 

Sumer,  Sumerians,  49,  72  sq. ,  129 

Sumu-abi,  17,  23 

Sumula-ilu,  8 

Sursur  (Phcen. ),  broker,  2372 

Surveys  of  land,  183 

Susa,  4,  6 

Sutruk-Nahunte,  6 

Syria,  legislation  in,  41  sq. 

Syro- Roman  law-book,  68  sq. ,  79 
sqq.,  85,  88  sq.,  93,  983,  1034, 
118  sq.,  127,  137,  141!,  I43lf  151 
sq.,  157  sq. ,  162  sq. ,  2i22,  2133, 
2163,  227,  2301(  236;?.,  239,  248, 
259,  267,  277 

S-z  (Aram.),  soss(?),  235  sq. 

Tablet.  See  Alteration,  Bond,  Con- 
tracts 

Taboo,  211  sq. 

Talio  {Lex  talionis],  44  sq.,  249  sqq., 
255  sqq. ,  274.  See  Restitution 

Talmud,  legislation  of,  41.  See  Jewish 
law,  later 

Tamar,  107 

Tarbzth  (Heb.),  interest,  2334 

Taverns,  149^.,  240^.     See  Wine 

Tax-collector,  185  sq. 

Temple,  at  the  gate,  60 ;  priestesses 
of,  149;  theft  from,  211;  ransom 
by,  185 

Tenant,  188  sqq.,  244,  246 


Testament,  or  will,  138 

Theft,    laws,    165,    211   sqq.,    226;   of 

slaves,  156  sq.  ;  of  irrigation  utensils, 

199.     See  Kidnapping 
Threat.     See  Intimidation 
Threshing  with  animals,  199 
Tirfcatu    (Bab.),    purchase -price,    77, 

783,  84,  120 
Tongue,  cut  out,  134 
Tooth,  loss  of,  249  sq. 
Toroth  (Heb.),  decisions,  43,  47 
Torture,  70.     See  Mutilation 
Trachonites,  blood-revenge  among,  259 
Trade.     See  Business 
1 '  Travellers. ' '     See  Agents 
Treason,  240  sq. 
Tribes,  custom  among,  49  sqq. 
Tributary,  1853 
Tribute,  21  ij 
Trustee,  143 

Ur,  7,  18,  41,  280 

Uruk,  8 

Usury.     See  Interest 

Uzubu  (Bab.),  compensation  for  divorce, 

114,    I2O,    123,    126 

Veterinary  surgeon,  246  sqq. ,  287 
Village  communities,  180  sqq. 
Votary,  102,  in,  147  sqq. 

Wadd,  god,  26 

Wages  of  hireling  or  labourer,  172  sq. , 

176  ;  boatman,  220  sq. 
Wall  (Ar. ),  guardian,  75 
Wasm  (Ar. ),  property-mark,  159 
Water,  ordeals  by,   64  sq. ,   102,   242. 

See  Drowning 
Watering  utensils,  199,  215 
"Weight,  the  great,"  210 
Widow,    inheritance  rights,    141  sqq., 

J45i   275  I  taken  by  heir,  97,   101, 

144.     See  Mourning,  Re- marriage 
Wife,   not  of  husband's  kin,    93  sq.  ; 

responsible   for   his    debts,    228  sq. 

See  Adultery,  Marriage,  Slander 
Will.     See  Testament 
Wine,  selling  of,  150,  210  sq. 
Witchcraft,  65,  207  sqq.,  241  sqq. 
Witnesses,  59,  64,  67  sqq.,  225 
Woman,    position  of,   71  sqq.,  92  sq. , 

nosy.  ;  restricted  freedom  to  marry, 

74  sq.  ;  inheritance  rights,  145  sqq., 

152,3.  See  Marriage 
Working  expenses,  231 
Wounding.  See  Assaults,  Cattle 


GENERAL  INDEX 


307 


Ya,  Yahu,  Yahwe,  in  Babylonia,  26  sq. 
Yezidi,  custom  of,  jjl 


Zadug,  22 

Zamama,  n    13 

Zar-pa-nit,  12 

Zikenlin  (Heb.  ),  sheikhs,  54,  57, 

Ziba,  slave  of  Saul,  163 


THE    END 


Printed  by  R.  &  R.  CLARK,  LIMITED,  Edinburgh 


WORKS  BY  THE  LATE 

W.  ROBERTSON  SMITH,  M.A.  LL.D. 

PROFESSOR   OF   ARABIC    IN    THE   UNIVERSITY   OF   CAMBRIDGE 

KINSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE 
IN   EARLY  ARABIA 

NEW  AND  ENLARGED  EDITION,  WITH   ADDITIONAL  PRICE     1  O/6 

NOTES  BY  THE  AUTHOR  AND  PROF.  GOLDZIHER. 
EDITED  BY  STANLEY  A.  COOK 

Not  the  least  of  Professor  Robertson  Smith's  services  to  biblical  knowledge  was  his 
epoch-making  study  of  early  society  in  Arabia  with  its  bearing  upon  the  primitive  or- 
ganisation of  the  Israelites,  and  at  the  time  of  his  death  he  had  made  preparations  for  a 
new  edition  of  "  Kinship  and  Marriage."  Fresh  material  had  been  collected  and  sifted, 
and  he  had  marked  out  for  himself  fresh  lines  of  investigation.  This  material  has  now 
been  incorporated,  together  with  a  number  of  notes  by  Professor  Goldziher,  Professor 
Bevan,  and  the  Editor,  Mr.  Stanley  A.  Cook,  who  also  contributes  a  short  introduction. 


LECTURES  ON 

THE   RELIGION   OF  DEMY  8m 

THE  SEMITES  PRICE  15/-  NET. 

THE  FUNDAMENTAL  INSTITUTIONS 


NEW  EDITION,  REVISED  THROUGHOUT  BY 
THE  AUTHOR 


THE  OLD  TESTAMENT 

IN  THE  JEWISH  DEMY  8vo- 

CHURCH  PRICE  1O/6 

A  COURSE  OF  LECTURES  ON 
BIBLICAL  CRITICISM 

SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED  AND   MUCH   ENLARGED 


THE   PROPHETS 
OF  ISRAEL 

POST  8vo. 
AND  THEIR  PLACE  IN   HISTORY 

TO  THE  CLOSE  OF  THE  EIGHTH  PRICE   1O/6 

CENTURY,  B.C. 

WITH  INTRODUCTION  AND  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  BY 

THE  REV.  PROF.  T.  K.  CHEYNE,  D.LITT.,  D.D. 

NEW  EDITION 

PUBLISHED  BY 

ADAM  &  CHARLES  BLACK,  SOHO  SQUARE,  LONDON 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any 
University  of  California  Library 

or  to  the 

NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

•  2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 
(510)642-6753 

•  1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing 
books  to  NRLF 

•  Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made 
4  days  prior  to  due  date 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


'£82 

JAN  1  j  120(35 

JAN  O  7  2007 


DD20  6M  9-03 


GENERAL  LIBRARY  -  U.C.  BERKELEY 


BDODT1SS71 


3  C  Co 


