CONVERTED 


GIFT  OF 
HORACE  W.  CARPENTIER 


Br  THE   SAME   AUTHOR 

The  Book  of  the  Dead :  The 
Papyrus  of  Ani,  Scribe  and 
Treasurer  of  the  Temples  of 
Egypt,  about  1450  b.c. 

A  facsimile  coloured  rcprodiiction  in  37  folding 
plates,  with  hieroglyphic  Transcript,  Trans- 
lation and  Introduction.  In  Two  Vols. 
Royal  8vo. 

Osiris  and  the  Egyptian 
Resurrection 

With  nearly  200  illustrations.  Two  Vols. 
Royal  8vo. 

The  Queen  of  Sheba  and  Her 
Only  Son  Menyelek. 

With  31  Illustrations  from  Ethiopia  manu- 
scripts.     Second  Impression.     Demy  8vo. 

Sfiecial    Prospectui    containing  full  particulars    of 
above  three  •volumes,  post  free. 


LEGENDS  OF  OUR  LADY  MARY 
THE  PERPETUAL  VIRGIN  AND 
HER  MOTHER  HANNA 


PLATE  1 


Add.  16192,  fol.  94&,  Brit.  Mus.  MS. 


The  oldest  known  Ethiopian  picture  of  the  Virgin  and  Child,  show- 
ing our  Lord  resting  on  Mary's  right  arm,  XVth  century.  At  a  later 
period  the  Ethiopian  artists  copied  Brancaleone's  famous  picture  and 
placed  the  Child  on  Mary's  left  arm.  On  her  right  is  the  Archangel 
Michael  and  on  her  left  the  Archangel  Gabriel  ;  at  her  feet  is  the  Abuna 


EGENDS  of 
OUR  LADY 
MARY  the 


PERPETUAL    VIRGIN 

^  HER  MOTHER  HANNA 

TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  ETHI- 
OPIC  MANUSCRIPTS  COLLECTED 
by  KING  THEODORE  ^/MAKDALA 
(gf  NOW  in  the  BRITISH  MUSEUM,  by 
SIR  E.  A,  WALLIS  BUDGE,  M.A., 
LITT.D.,  D.LITT.,  LIT.D.,  F.S.A., 
SOMETIME  SCHOLAR  0/ CHRIST'S 
COLLEGE,  CAMBRIDGE,  AND 
TYRWHITT  HEBREW  SCHOLAR. 
KEEPER  OF  THE  DEPARTMENT 
OF  EGYPTIAN  (gf  ASSYRIAN  AN- 
TIQUITIES  tn  the  BRITISH  MUSEUM 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  MEDICI  SOCIETY,  LTD. 
LONDON,  LIVERPOOL  &f  BOSTON,  MASS.,  MCMXXIL 


Printed  in  Great  Britain  at 
The  Mayflower  Press,  Plymouth,      William  Brendon  &  Son,  Ltd. 


PREFACE 

THE  present  volume,  containing  translations  of  all 
the  important  Ethiopic  Legends  of  the  Blessed 
Virgin  Mary,  and  the  companion  volume  of  transla- 
tions of  the  Ethiopic  versions  of  the  Miracles  of  our 
Lady,  are  supplements  to  the  reproductions  of  the 
Lady  Meux  MSS.,  Nos.  2-5,  which  Lady  Meux  printed 
for  private  circulation  in  1899.  Many  scholars  and 
others  have  wondered  how  these  fine  MSS.  became  de- 
tached from  the  great  Makdala  Collection  which  the 
British  Army  brought  to  England  in  1868,  and  how 
they  found  their  way  into  her  possession.  And  as  they 
have  also  asked  why  she  rendered  such  a  signal  service 
to  Ethiopic  studies  by  printing  the  original  texts,  with 
English  translations  and  costly  coloured  facsimiles  of 
the  pictures — a  work  entailing  great  expense,  and  one 
which  none  before  her  had  undertaken — I  print  here  a 
short  account  of  the  way  in  which  she  acquired  them. 
In  the  spring  of  1897  Lady  Meux  went  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  Mr.  Bernard  Quaritch  in  Piccadilly  to 
purchase  a  copy  of  Ludolf's  "  Historia  ^thiopica." 
Finding  that  she  had  been  reading  a  translation  of 
the  Ethiopic  Version  of  the  History  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  he  took  the  opportunity  of  showing  her  a  group 
of  fine  Ethiopic  MSS.,  which  he  had  recently  acquired 
from  an  officer  who  had  served  in  the  British  Expedi- 
tion to  Abyssinia  in  1 867.  She  telegraphed  to  me  asking 
me  to  go  and  examine  the  manuscripts  and  to  report 
upon  them  to  her  without  delay.  I  did  so,  and  Mr. 
Quaritch  put  the  manuscripts  before  me.  The  oldest 
of  them  was  a  small  4to  volume  containing  a  Life  of 
Hanna,  the  mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  ;  it  was 
illustrated  with  archaic  Ethiopian  pictures  of  Hanna 
and  her  husband  Joachim,  the  Birth  of  the  Virgin,  etc., 
and  was  written  in  the  XVth  century.  It  was,  and  still 

vii 


Preface 

is  the  only  copy  of  the  Life  of  Hanna  in  Ethiopia  known 
to  me.  Two  of  the  manuscripts  were  large  handsome 
volumes  about  i6  inches  square,  and  each  contained  a 
good  selection  of  the  Miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary, 
illustrated  with  many  full-page  pictures  painted  in 
bright  colours  which  were  intended  to  illustrate  the 
texts  of  the  Miracles.  The  older  of  these  MSS.  was 
written  in  the  XVIth  century  and  the  other  about  a 
century  later  ;  each  had  been  made  for  the  use  of  a 
royal  personage.  Another  manuscript  contained  the 
Life  of  Maba'a  Seyon,  a  comparatively  modern  Ethio- 
pian saint,  and  the  Life  of  Gabra  Krestos,  a  prince  who 
abandoned  his  royal  state  and  home  and  parents,  and 
became  a  mendicant  monk.  These  Lives  were  illus- 
trated by  a  large  series  of  coloured  pictures,  which  are 
of  special  interest  as  they  portray  events  in  the  daily 
life  of  the  modern  Abyssinians.  I  sent  to  Lady  Meux  a 
description  of  these  MSS.,  pointing  out  their  interest 
and  importance,  and  their  great  value  from  an  artistic 
point  of  view.  I  also  told  the  Keeper  of  Oriental  Manu- 
scripts in  the  British  Museum  of  them,  and  urged  him 
to  attempt  to  acquire  them  for  the  National  Collection. 
But  his  official  financial  position  was  such  that  it  was 
impossible  for  him  to  make  an  offer  for  them  which 
Mr.  Quaritch  would  accept,  and  so  the  whole  group  of 
MSS.,  together  with  a  few  smaller  works,  became  the 
property  of  Lady  Meux,  who  added  them  to  her  Col- 
lection of  Egyptian  and  Sudani  antiquities  preserved  in 
the  museum  at  Theobalds  Park. 

The  nucleus  of  this  Collection  was  made  by  Sir  Henry 
and  Lady  Meux  when  they  visited  Egypt  in  1878  and 
1882.  In  the  former  year  Lady  Meux  with  a  small 
party  succeeded  in  getting  as  far  south  as  Sarras,  and 
they  visited  Semnah  and  Kummah,  and  some  of  the 
forts  in  the  Second  Cataract  between  Sarras  and  Wadi 
Halfah.  On  their  way  down  the  Nile  from  Aswan  Lady 
Meux  picked  up  several  objects  of  interest,  among  them 

viii 


Preface 

being  the  important  figures  of  Nebseni  and  his  wife, 
who  flourished  about  b.c.  1550.  A  substantial  part  of 
the  Collection  as  it  was  in  1897  was  made  by  myself 
in  Egypt  under  permission  from  the  Trustees  of  the 
British  Museum,  and  the  total  number  of  Egyptian 
objects  in  the  Theobalds  Park  Museum  was  one  thou- 
sand four  hundred.  In  1886  Mr.  Walter  Ingram  pre- 
sented to  Lady  Meux  the  now  notorious  mummy  and 
coffin  of  Nes-Amsu  (Nes-Menu),  a  prophet  of  the  god 
Menu  at  Panopolis  about  b.c.  350.  Many  absurd 
stories  have  been  published  about  this  mummy,  which 
it  has  been  alleged  caused  the  death  of  Mr.  Ingram,  and 
it  will  be  well  to  state  the  facts  concerning  its  acqui- 
sition, which  I  had  direct  from  him  and  from  the  natives 
at  Luxor  who  were  present  when  he  purchased  it. 

Mr.  Ingram  and  his  friends  set  out  from  England  to 
go  and  shoot  big  game  in  Somaliland,  and  visited  Egypt 
on  their  way  thither.  At  Luxor  he  saw  the  coffin  and 
mummy,  which  had  been  recently  found  at  Akhmim, 
and  he  began  to  bargain  for  them  with  the  dealer  who 
owned  them.  Mr.  Ingram  knew  no  Arabic,  and  the 
dealer  knew  no  language  except  Arabic,  and  negotia- 
tions were  carried  on  chiefly  by  signs  and  the  counting 
of  fingers.  The  dealer  had  set  one  price  on  the  mummy, 
of  which  he  was  anxious  to  get  rid,  and  another  on  the 
coffin,  which  he  prized  highly,  and  he  did  not  realize 
that  Mr.  Ingram  was  regarding  the  mummy  and  coffin 
as  a  single  object,  and  that  the  £60  which  he  offered 
was  intended  to  purchase  both  mummy  and  coffin. 
When  the  bargaining  came  to  a  standstill  a  zealous 
friend  intervened,  and  misunderstanding  the  dealer's 
position  told  Mr.  Ingram  that  he  could  carry  off  the 
mummy  and  coffin  to  the  boat,  which  he  did,  the 
dealer  in  no  way  opposing.  Mummy  and  coffin  were 
packed  in  a  stout  case  and  despatched  to  Cairo  forth- 
with. When  the  day  of  departure  came  Mr.  Ingram 
offered  the  dealer  a  cheque  for  ^£60,  which  was  refused 

ix 


Preface 

with  indignation,  and  an  altercation  of  a  very  violent 
character  broke  out  on  the  river-bank.  Some  of  the 
spectators  took  one  side,  and  some  the  otlier,  and  every- 
body spoke  at  once,  and  at  the  top  of  his  voice,  and  in 
the  midst  of  all  this  the  dealer  kept  on  demanding  more 
money,  i.e.  higher  payment  for  the  mummy,  or  failing 
that  the  return  of  the  mummy.  The  British  Consul, 
Mustafa  Agha,  advised  Mr.  Ingram  that  ^^60  was  a  fair 
price  for  both  the  mummy  and  coffin,  and  he  therefore 
refused  to  pay  more.  On  this  the  dealer,  having  sworn 
by  his  own  eyesight  and  by  the  life  of  the  Prophet  that 
he  would  never  sell  his  anticas  for  j/^60,  accepted  the 
cheque.  And  going  down  the  steps  by  which  the  Con- 
sul's house  between  the  columns  of  the  temple  of 
Amenhetep  III  was  reached,  he  knelt  on  the  ground  at 
the  foot  of  them  and  said  the  Afternoon  Prayer.  He 
then  followed  Mr.  Ingram  to  the  boat,  and  called  down 
upon  him  and  upon  every  member  of  his  family,  dead 
and  alive,  curses  of  a  most  malignant  character.  After 
the  boat  started  he  ran  along  the  river-bank  cursing  the 
boat  and  its  living  freight,  until  he  reached  the  quay 
near  Karnak,  where  he  fell  down  exhausted. 

In  due  course  the  cofhn  and  mummy  arrived  in 
London,  and  in  response  to  an  application  from  the 
Illustrated  London  News  Office,  Dr.  Birch  sent  me  down 
to  examine  ^  it.  The  cofhn  was  a  line  example  of  its 
class,  and  was  ornamented  with  brightly  painted  figures 
of  the  gods,  and  extracts  in  hieroglyphs  from  well- 
known  religious  funerary  texts.  Some  of  these  are 
found  in  a  papyrus  in  the  British  Museum,  where  they 
are  followed  by  a  series  of  curses  on  anyone  who  shall 
carry  off,  or  injure,  or  steal,  or  destroy  the  papyrus  and, 
of  course,  the  contents  of  the  coffin  in  v/hich  it  was 
placed.  Rightly  or  wrongly,  those  who  knew  the  story 
of  the  acquisition  of  the  mummy  and  coffin  of  Nes- 

*  I  published  a  brief  account  of  it  in  Proc.  Soc.  Bibl.  Arch.,  Vol.  VIII, 
pp.  106-108. 


Preface 

Amsu  believed  that  the  curses  written  in  the  papyrus 
would  fall  upon  Mr.  Ingram,  as  well  as  those  that  were 
uttered  against  him  by  the  dealer  at  Luxor.  Two  years 
later  Mr.  Ingram  was  terribly  mutilated  and  trampled 
to  death  in  East  Africa  by  an  enraged  elephant  which 
he  had  unwisely  provoked,  and  then  people  began  to 
say  both  privately  and  in  the  press  that  this  fate  had 
fallen  upon  him_  as  a  result  of  the  curses  uttered  by  the 
dealer  and  written  in  the  papyrus.  Mr.  W.  T.  Stead, 
Mr.  Douglas  Murray,  the  Rev.  W.  J.  Loftie  and  others 
pressed  Lady  Meux  to  publish  the  scenes  and  texts 
painted  on  the  coffin,  and  in  1891  she  asked  me  to  pre- 
pare a  Catalogue  of  the  Egyptian  Antiquities  in  her 
Museum  and  to  include  in  it  a  full  description  of  the 
mummy  of  Nes-Amsu  and  his  coffin.  I  undertook  the 
work  and  visited  Theobalds  Park  frequently  to  write 
the  descriptions  of  the  objects  and  to  superintend  the 
labelling  and  general  mounting  of  the  Collection.  Two 
years  later  Lady  Meux  printed  for  private  circulation 
only  the  Catalogue  which  I  had  written  ;  it  appeared 
under  the  title  of  ^ome  Account  of  the  Collection  of 
Egyptiaji  Antiquities  in  the  possession  of  Lady  Meux  of 
Theobalds  Park^  JValtham  Cross.   London,  1893. 

But  to  return  now  to  the  manuscripts  that  LadyMeux 
had  purchased  from  Mr.  Quaritch.  As  soon  as  these 
were  delivered  to  her  she  asked  me  to  make  a  fuller 
examination  of  them,  and  to  describe  their  contents 
more  or  less  in  detail,  so  that  she  might  come  to  some 
decision  as  to  their  publication.  She  had  already  pub- 
lished for  private  circulation  the  Ethiopic  Version  of 
the  History  of  Alexander  the  Great,  which  I  had  copied 
and  translated  from  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,^  and 
the  very  favourable  reception  which  this  work  m.et  v^^ith 
at  the  hands  of  scholars  and  the  literary  world  in 
general  stimulated  her  to  continue  the  publication  of 
Ethiopic  texts  with  English  translations.  And  this  ver- 

1  2"/;^  Lije  and  Exploits  of  Alexander  the  Great.   Cambridge,  1896. 

xi 


Preface 

sion  of  the  famous  Alexander-Book  was  welcomed  in 
Ethiopia  and  praised  by  no  less  a  critic  than  His 
Majesty  the  Lion  of  the  Tribe  of  Judah,  Menyelek  II, 
King  of  the  Kings  of  Ethiopia.  When  the  British  Mis- 
sion to  Menyelek  was  received  by  the  King  in  Addis 
Abbeba,  Sir  F.  R.  Wingate  presented  to  His  Majesty, 
with  the  other  gifts,  a  copy  of  the  "  Life  and  Exploits 
of  Alexander  the  Great,"  which  Lady  Meux  had  sent 
him.  And  I  was  told  by  a  member  of  the  Mission  that 
His  Majesty  was  both  surprised  and  pleased  with  the 
Ethiopic  text,  which  he  began  to  read  forthwith,  and 
that  he  admired  the  Ethiopic  type  and  wished  to  have 
more  books  of  the  kind  produced.^ 

Of  the  Lady  Meux  MSS.  the  first  to  be  reproduced 
was  that  containing  the  Lives  of  Maba'a  Seyon  and 
Gabra  Krestos,  a  stout  quarto  leather-bound  volume 
containing  ninety-two  pictures  illustrating  the  text. 
The  coloured  facsimiles  of  the  pictures  were  repro- 
duced by  the  late  Mr.  W.  Griggs  and  were  inserted  in 
their  proper  places  in  the  English  text.  The  Ethiopic 
texts  were  printed  by  the  eminent  German  firm  of 
W.  Drugulin  of  Leipzig  because  the  necessary  fount  of 
type  did  not  exist  in  England,  and  were  placed  at  the 
end  of  the  book.  Up  to  that  time  hardly  any  attention 
had  been  paid  by  scholars  to  the  art  exhibited  by  the 
pictures  in  the  illustrated  manuscripts,  and  some  of 
them  went  so  far  as  to  describe  it  as  "  wretched  carica- 
ture," and  the  pictures  as  "  horrible  daubs."  An  exami- 
nation of  the  pictures  in  the  Lady  Meux  MSS.  con- 
vinced me  that  they  were  not  of  native  origin  (though 
their  painters  copied  faithfully  enough  native  objects, 

^  "  And  finally  he  was  given  a  Life  of  Alexander  the  Great  printed 
in  Ethiopic.  This  was  a  reproduction  of  a  manuscript  found  in  Mag- 
dala,  and  was  printed  in  London  by  the  generosity  of  Lady  Meux. 
With  this,  too,  the  king  was  delighted,  and  discussed  the  possibility  of 
having  other  books  similarly  printed," — Gleichen,  With  the  Mission  to 
Menelik,  1897.     London,  1898,  p.  145. 

zii 


Preface 

animate  and  inanimate),  and  that  the  artists  must  have 
had  copies  of  some  kind  to  work  from.  I  went  through 
all  the  illustrated  Ethiopia  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum, 
and  having  selected  thirty-two  typical  examples  from 
MSS.  of  the  XVth,  XVIIth  and  XVIIIth  centuries, 
printed  them  in  half-tone  in  the  Introduction  to  the 
Lives  of  Maba'a  Seyon  and  Gabra  Krestos.  These  taken 
together  proved  to  me  that  the  native  artists  worked 
from  European  originals.  All  the  evidence  available 
suggests  that  coloured  pictures  were  first  introduced 
into  Ethiopic  manuscripts  in  the  XVth  century,  and 
that  the  European  element  in  them  was  derived  from 
the  pictures  that  were  painted  on  the  walls  of  the 
churches  by  the  Venetian  painter  Niccolo  Brancaleone. 
When  this  Venetian  went  to  Ethiopia  is  unknown,  but 
he  lived  there  for  forty  years,  and  he  was  commissioned 
by  King  Zara'  Ya'kob  to  decorate  the  walls  of  many 
churches  with  pictures  of  the  saints,  the  Virgin  Mary,^ 
etc. 

The  volume  containing  the  Lives  of  Maba'a  Seyon 
and  Gabra  Krestos  appeared  in  the  summer  of  1898, 
and  was  so  warmly  welcomed  by  scholars  and  learned 
societies  that  Lady  Meux  decided  to  reproduce  the 
Miracles  of  the  Virgin  and  the  Life  of  Hanna,  etc., 
without  delay.  This  work  occupied  nearly  two  years, 
and  the  new  volume,  containing  Ethiopic  texts,  English 
translations  and  one  hundred  and  eleven  coloured 
plates,  appeared  in  1900.  As  in  the  first  volume  it  was 
shown  that  the  Ethiopic  pictures  were  aufond  of  Euro- 
pean origin,  so  it  was  proved  in  the  second  that  the 
greater  number  of  the  Miracles  printed  therein  were 
derived  from  Collections  of  the  Miracles  of  the  Virgin 
that  had  been  made  in  Byzantium,  Italy  and  France. 
Of  the  rest  some  were  written  in  Egypt,  and  a  few  were 
of  native  origin.    Lady  Meux  distributed  the  volume 

1  On  his  picture  of  the  Virgin  painted  for  the  'Atronsa  Maryam, 
see  p.  xliv. 

xiii 


Preface 

among  scholars  and  Libraries  where  it  would  be  easily 
accessible  for  study,  and  her  generosity  was  greatly 
appreciated.  His  Holiness  the  Pope  accepted  a  copy 
for  his  private  Library,  and  sent  to  Lady  Meux  a  silver 
bust  of  himself  accompanied  by  his  Blessing.  The 
letter  which  announced  the  despatch  of  the  bust  and 
contained  the  expression  of  the  approbation  of  His 
Holiness  and  His  Blessing,  was  written  by  his  Eminence 
Cardinal  Rampolla.  Mr.  (now  Sir)  J.  L.  Harrington, 
H.B.M.'s  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  the 
Emperor  Menyelek,  presented  a  copy  of  the  work  to 
His  Majesty,  who  was  apparently  greatly  pleased  with 
the  gift.  He  wrote  to  Lady  Meux  in  the  following 
terms  :  "  From  the  Lion  of  the  Tribe  of  Judah,  A4en- 
yelek,  King  of  the  Kings  of  Ethiopia.  I  am  well.  How 
are  you  ?  The  book  which  you  sent  to  me  with  Mr. 
Harrington  has  come  to  me.  I  am  pleased.  And  be- 
cause it  is  very  well  done  I  send  you  this  letter  and  my 
seal."  At  the  same  time  the  Emperor  sent  to  His 
Majesty  King  Edward  VH  the  Star  of  Ethiopia,  First 
Class,  and  to  Lady  Meux  and  myself  the  Star  of 
Ethiopia,  Second  and  Third  Class  respectively,  together 
with  letters  in  Amharic.  Soon  after  this  Lady  Meux 
received  many  applications  from  leading  ecclesiastics 
and  officers  in  Ethiopia  for  copies  of  the  Miracles  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  and  it  was  clear  that  the  publica- 
tion of  her  manuscripts  was  greatly  appreciated  by 
the  writers. 

In  1902  His  Highness  Ras  Makonnen,  K.C.M.G., 
Governor  of  Harrar  and  the  Dependencies  of  Ethiopia, 
came  to  England  to  be  present  at  the  Coronation  of 
King  Edward  VH,  and  as  soon  as  possible,  by  his  Sove- 
reign's orders,  he  announced  his  arrival  to  Lady  Meux. 
He  and  his  suite  visited  Theobalds  Park  one  Sunday, 
and  he  and  the  ecclesiastics  who  were  with  him  spent 
much  time  in  examining  her  manuscripts  and  her  re- 
productions of  them.    His  reverence  for  the  manu- 

xiv 


Preface 

scripts  was  great,  and  after  bowing  several  times  to  the 
older  manuscript^  of  the  Miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary^ 
he  knelt  on  the  floor  of  the  Museum  and  lifting  the 
book  on  to  the  top  of  his  head  remained  in  this  attitude 
and  prayed  for  several  minutes.  A  few  days  later  Lady 
Meux  sent  to  him  by  me  a  set  of  her  publications,  and 
when  I  delivered  the  books  at  his  lodgings  in  West- 
minster the  joy  of  himself  and  the  bishops  who  were 
with  him  was  unbounded. 

As  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  privately  printed 
edition  of  the  Miracles  (which  was  limited  to  three 
hundred  copies)  was  given  away  to  scholars,  learned 
societies  and  private  friends,  it  will  be  readily  under- 
stood that  the  number  of  copies  available  for  the 
general  public  was  small.  When  it  was  found  that 
copies  could  only  be  obtained  through  the  second-hand 
booksellers,  friends  in  Egypt,  Syria,  Constantinople, 
Mosul  and  elsewhere  suggested  that  the  book  should  be 
reprinted  in  some  form.  To  reproduce  the  book  with 
over  one  hundred  plates  in  full  colours  was  outside  the 
scope  of  publishers  generally,  and  the  cost  of  resetting 
the  Ethiopic  texts  was  prohibitive.  As  the  demand  has 
been  constant  for  some  years  now,  the  present  edition 
has  been  prepared  for  those  to  whom  the  large  work  is 
inaccessible,  and  I  believe  that  in  many  respects  it  will 
be  found  more  useful  and  instructive.  A  full  transla- 
tion of  the  Life  of  Hanna  is  given,  together  with  half- 
tone reproductions  of  all  the  pictures  in  MS.  No.  4, 
rather  larger  than  half  scale.  In  addition  to  the  Life  of 
the  Virgin  Mary  which  she  is  said  to  have  related  to 
Archbishop  Theophilus,  I  have  given  translations  of  all 
the  Legends  about  our  Lady  which  are  found  in  Ethi- 
opic. These  translations  are  published  for  the  first 
time,   and  contain   much   traditional  lore   unknown 

^  By  her  will  Lady  Meux  left  all  her  manuscripts  to  the  Emperor 
Menyelek  II,  but  he  was  dead  when  she  died.  What  became  of  the 
manuscripts  I  do  not  know. 

XV 


Preface 

otherwise.  The  story  of  the  Virgin's  visit  to  Paradise 
and  Hell  is  of  considerable  interest.  As  the  prayers  that 
were  daily  recited  to  the  Virgin  in  Ethiopian  churches, 
and  on  the  thirty-two  days  of  festival  that  were  cele- 
brated in  her  honour,  form  about  half  the  service,  I 
have  given  a  complete  translation  of  the  famous  Wed- 
DASE  Maryam,  and  a  version  of  a  section  of  the  'Arga- 
NONA  Dengel,  or  "  Virgin's  Lyre."  These  will  enable 
the  general  reader  to  realize  more  easily  the  almost 
divine  honours  that  are  paid  to  the  Virgin  Mary  in 
Ethiopia.  The  forty-two  Miracles  which  are  described 
and  illustrated  in  the  Lady  Meux  MSS.  are  not  the  most 
characteristic  or  instructive,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 
they  were  selected  by  the  scribe  because  they  could  be 
effectively  illustrated.  With  the  view  of  making  the  col- 
lection more  representative,  I  have  added  sixty-eight 
other  Miracles,  most  of  which  are  taken  from  the  vener- 
able MS.  in  the  British  Museum,  Orient.  No.  652. 
There  was  no  room  for  these  in  the  present  work,  and 
therefore  it  has  been  decided  to  issue  them  in  a  separate 
volume  to  be  published  shortly,  together  with  half-tone 
reproductions  of  the  pictures  rather  more  than  one- 
third  in  scale. 

In  the  Introduction  are  given  a  sketch  of  Mary- 
Literature  in  Ethiopia  and  a  brief  account  of  the  origin 
and  growth  of  the  worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  that 
country.  It  is  often  stated  that  the  cult  of  Isis  and  the 
worship  of  Mary  are  identical,  but  it  seems  to  me  that 
the  fundamental  characteristics  of  the  Sudani,  or 
Egyptian,  goddess  Isis  are  wholly  different  from  those 
of  the  Asiatic  woman  Mary,  the  Jewess.  The  attributes 
of  the  universal  Mother-goddess  were  ascribed  to  both, 
and  the  similarity  of  the  pictures  of  Isis  and  Horus  and 
Mary  and  Christ  is  due  to  this  alone.  The  short  Chap- 
ter on  the  Cult  of  Isis  contains  the  principal  facts  about 
this  remarkable  goddess  that  are  deducible  from  the 
hieratic  and  hieroglyphic  Egyptian  texts. 

xvi 


CONTENTS 

Introduction  page 

I.     Description  of  the  Virgin  Mary  by  Epiphanius    xxii 
II.     The  Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Egypt  and 

Ethiopia  xxv 

III.  The  Cult  of  Isis  and  the  Worship  of  the  Virgin 

Mary  compared  1 

IV.  Ethiopic  Literature  of  the  Virgin  Mary  Ixi 
V.     The  Translations  printed  herein                             Ixx 

Translations 

The  History  of  Hanna  : —  I 

First  day  of  the  week  5 

Salutations  to  the  Members  of  the  body  of  Hanna  8 

Second  day  of  the  week  ii 

Third  day  of  the  week  24 

Fourth  day  of  the  week  31 

Fifth  day  of  the  week  40 

Colophon  47 

Sixth  day  of  the  week  48 

(a)  The  Covenant  of  Christ  with  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary  54 

(b)  The  Covenant  of  Christ  with  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary  58 
The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  by  Theophilus,  Patriarch 

of  Alexandria  61 
The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  by  Timothy,  Patriarch  of 

Alexandria  81 

The  Annunciation  of  Gabriel  to  Mary  102 

The  Conception  and  Birth  of  our  Lady  Mary  122 

The  Discoverer  of  the  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  143 
The  History  of  the  Death  of  the  Virgin  Mary  as  told  by 

St,  John  152 

b  xvii 


C 071  tents 

PAGE 

The  History  of  the  Departure  of  the  Virgin  Mary  from 

this  world  1 68 
The  History  of  the  Flight  of  the  Virgin  Mary  to  Mount 

Lebanon  202 
Salutations  to  the  Members  of  the  body  of  the  Virgin 

Mary  236 
The  Vision  of  the  Virgin  Mary  which  she  told  to  John, 

the  son  of  Zebcdee  245 

The  Weddase  Maryam  279 

The  'Arganona  Dengel  297 

Index  305 


xvill 


LIST   OF   PLATES 


PLATE 
I. 


II. 
III. 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 
X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 

XIV. 

XV. 

XVI. 

XVII. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

XX. 

XXI. 

XXII. 


The  oldest  known  Ethiopian  picture  of  the 
Virgin  with  the  Child  resting  on  her  right 


FRONTISPIECE 
FACING  PAGE 
I 
2 

6 

10 

H 

i8 


Facsimile  of  a  page  of  the  Life  of  Hanna 

St.  George  spearing  the  Dragon 

Kanna  and  Joachim  praying  for  offspring 

The  birth  of  Mary  from  Hanna's  right  side 

Saint  George  spearing  the  Dragon 

The  Virgin  and  Child 

The  oldest  known  Ethiopian  picture  of  the 

Crucifixion,  XVth  century  22 

The  Crucifixion,  XVIIth  or  XVIIIth  century     26 
Portrait  of  St.  Gabra  Manfas  Kedus  30 

Portrait  of  St.  Takla  Haymanot 
Portrait  of  'Abuna  Stephen  34 

Portrait  of  'Abuna  'Abakarazun 
Portrait  of  'Abuna  Mazgaba  Salasha  38 

Portrait  of  'Abuna  Samuel 

Portrait  of  'Abuna  'Amda  Salashe  42 

Portrait  of  'Abuna  'Ezra 
St.  Theodore  of  the  East  slaying  a  viper  in 

human  form  46 

Christ  making  a  covenant  with  Mary  54 

Christ  risen  from  the  Tomb  addressing  Mary       56 
The  Virgin  Mary  58 

Mary  accepting  from  Bishop  Dexius  the  Book 

of  her  Miracles  which  he  had  written  62 

The  Virgin  Mary  rescuing  the  souls  of  two 

scribes  from  the  Devil  68 

Mary  removing  a  monastery  to  a  river  78 

Mary  saving  a  falling  painter  from  death  88 

Mary  rescuing  from  drowning  a  woman  in 

childbirth  and  her  child  108 


XIX 


List  of  Plates 


PLATE  FACING    PAGE 

XXIII.  Mary  rescuing  the  soul  of  a  cannibal  murderer 

from  the  Devil  128 

XXIV.  An  angel  delivering  Sophia,  Abbess  of  Mount 

Carmel,  of  a  child  under  Mary's  direction      138 
XXV.     The  Virgin  Mary  renewing  the  strength  and 

youth  of  Katir  her  servant  148 

XXVI.     The  Virgin  Mary  restoring  the  sight  of  John 

of  Bakansi  150 

XXVII.     A  variant  of  the  scene  on  the  preceding  plate     152 
XXVIII.     The  Assumption  of  the  Virgin  Mary  and  her 

sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  Christ  156 

XXIX.     The  Virgin  Mary  delivering  two  souls  from 

the  clutches  of  the  Devil  172 

XXX.     Zacharias  placing  a  wreath  of  roses  on  the 

head  of  the  Virgin  Mary  236 

XXXI.     The  Virgin  Mary  visiting  Paradise  and  Hell       246 
XXXII.     Maba'a   Sgyon   taken  to  the  bosom  of  the 

Virgin  Mary  with  the  Christ-Child  256 

XXXIII.  Theophilus  hearing  the  trumpets  proclaiming 
the  arrival  of  the  soul  of  Gabra  Krcstos  in 
heaven  266 


XX. 


INTRODUCTORY 


hiiroduction 


I.   DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  VIRGIN  MARY 

BY   EPIPHANIUS,  BISHOP   OF   CYPRUS 
(Born  about  320,  died  404  a.d.) 

'Hi'  <5e  TO  >;0of  Kai  tj  Qecri^  Trjq  fxop(ptji  kq]  t*/?  >yX</c/a? 
avTrji}  ovTco  :  exovra,  cog  (pt]<Tiv  'K-mcpai'io?'  2e/i^'^/,  (ptjaiv,  ^]v 
Kara  Trav—a'  uXiya  re  kui  ai/ayKoia  XaXoOcra'  raxeia  irpoi 
VTTUKorjv  Ka\  €VTrpo(j")]yopo<i'  Tifxwaa  Tra^ra?  Km  TrpoaKwovaa. 
ixiari  Se  Tt]v  rjXiKiav  tI}v.  EiVf  8e  o\  Kai  irXeov  ti  tov  [xeaov 
ex^i^  a^Ti'/v  (pacri.  To  €V7ra/5p>]<TiacrTOv  Se  tt/jo?  "Travra 
a.i'OpooTTiH'  ei'x^  iro/ipo)  yeXaJTo?,  t'^.t)  re  Tapa\rig  Kai  aopyrjTog 
fMuXiCTTa'  (TiTOXpoog  S'  i}v  Koi  ^avQoQpi^'  €v6(p6aXfxog' 
VTTO^ai'Oi^oua-ag  kq]  oiovei  eXaiooSeig  Ta<^  Kopa?  tu>v  oc/yQaX/mm' 
e\ov(Ta'  TrepiJ/y/xeVa?  Kai  ineXawag  7^e/)i,'3fc/3X^//xe^'>;  6</>pvg 
cnroxpf^^Twg'  eiri^piv'  x^'-^^  CTravOovvTa  i'xoucra  Kai  Ttj?  f/c 
Tct)p  Xoycoif  yXvKvTr]TO<;  ye/uLovra'  UpocrcaTrov  ou  arpoyyuXov, 
aXX'  wcravei  eTri/uirjKe;  KeKTrj/j-evt],  ^iaKpox^ip  Te  Kai  /xaKpo- 
SaKTvXog  r}v'  ciTUipog  re  koi  acrxvi^f^'^^i'^o?'  fxt]  /SXacfielav 
eTTiovpa/jLei')]  Tiva'  TaTreacocriv  virep/SaXXovaav  exova-a'  Ip-aria 
avToxpoa  ([topova-a,  Kai  ayaxwcra,  oTrorov  vvv  Ka\  to  dyiov 
auT^9  p.a(l>6piov  SeiKuvrai'  Kai  a-uvoXoos  eiireiv,  e<p'  airacri  roig 
avTfji  Oelag  x^^P^'^'O?  7re7rX»j/3co/xeV»/. 

Nicephorus  Callistus,  Eccles.  Hist.  XXIII  (ed.  Migne, 

Pairolooiae,  Series  Grieca,  tome  145,  col.  815). 


XXll 


httro  duett  on 


I.   DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  VIRGIN  MARY 

BY  EPIPHANIUS,   BISHOP  OF  CYPRUS 

(Born  about  320,  died  404  a.d.) 

THE  moral  character  and  the  material  disposition 
of  her  youthful  form  were,  according  to  Epipha- 
nius,  in  this  wise  :  He  says : — 

She  was  grave  and  dignified  in  all  her  actions.  She 
spoke  little  and  only  when  it  was  necessary  to  do  so. 
She  listened  readily  and  could  be  addressed  easily.  She 
paid  honour  and  respect  (i.e.  she  saluted)  everyone.  She 
was  of  middle  stature,  but  some  say  that  she  was  of 
more  than  middle  height.  She  was  wont  to  speak  to 
every  one  fearlessly  and  clearly,  without  laughter,  and 
without  agitation,  and  she  was  specially  slow  to  anger. 
Her  complexion  was  of  the  colour  of  ripe  wheat,  and 
her  hair  was  auburn  (or  reddish).  Her  eyes  were  bright 
and  keen,  and  light  brown  in  colour,  and  the  pupils 
thereof  were  of  an  olive-green  tint.  Her  eyebrows  were 
arched  (or  semicircular)  and  deep  black.  Her  nose  was 
long,  her  lips  were  red  and  full,  and  overflowing  with 
the  sweetness  of  her  words.  Her  face  was  not  round, 
but  somewhat  oblong  (i.e.  oval).  Her  hand  was  long 
and  her  fingers  were  long.  She  was  wholly  free  from  all 
ostentatious  pride,  and  she  was  simple,  unpretentious, 
and  inclined  to  excessive  humility.  She  wore  garments 
of  natural  colours  (i.e.  undyed  homespun),  and  was  con- 
tent with  them,  a  fact  which  is  even  now  proved  by  her 
holy  head-cloth.  And  to  sum  up,  she  was  filled  with 
divine  grace  in  all  her  ways. 


xxni 


Introduction 


II.   THE  WORSHIP  OF  THE  VIRGIN  MARY 
IN  EGYPT  AND  ETHIOPIA 

THE  Egyptian  Christians,  or  Copts,  believed  that 
when  "  the  fulness  of  the  time  had  come,  God 
sent  forth  His  Son,  made  of  a  woman"  (Galatians  4.  4), 
and  that  this  woman  was  Mary,  a  virgin  who  was  "  es- 
poused to  a  man  whose  name  was  Joseph,  of  the  house 
of  David."  Before  husband  and  wife  "  came  together  " 
the  angel  Gabriel  was  sent  from  God  to  Nazareth,  and 
he  "  came  in  unto  her  and  said.  Hail,  highly  favoured, 
the  Lord  is  with  thee  :  blessed  art  thou  among  women. 
And  the  angel  said  unto  her.  Fear  not,  Mary  :  for  thou 
hast  found  favour  with  God.  And,  behold,  thou  shalt 
conceive  in  thy  womb,  and  bring  forth  a  son,  and  shalt 
call  his  name  Jesus.  .  .  .  Then  said  Mary  unto  the 
angel.  How  shall  this  be,  seeing  I  know  not  a  man  ? 
And  the  angel  answered  and  said  unto  her.  The  Holy 
Ghost  shall  come  upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the 
Highest  shall  overshadow  thee  ;  therefore  also  that 
holy  thing  which  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall  be  called 
the  Son  of  God  "  (Luke  i.  27-35).  When  Joseph  found 
that  his  wife  had  conceived  he  "  was  minded  to  put  her 
away  privily.  But  whilst  he  thought  on  these  things, 
behold,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  unto  him  in  a 
dream,  saying,  Joseph,  thou  son  of  David,  fear  not  to 
take  unto  thee  Mary  thy  wife  ;  for  that  which  is  con- 
ceived in  her  is  of  the  Holy  Ghost  "  (Matt.  i.  19,  20). 
Mary  the  Virgin  brought  forth  her  son  in  due  course, 
and  continued  to  be  a  virgin.    Mary,   though  the 

XXV 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Mother  of  God,  was  "  begotten  by  a  human  father,  and 
brought  forth  by  a  human  mother,  like  every  other 
man."^  And  she  "  tasted  death  like  every  other  human 
being,  because  she  was  flesh  and  blood. "^  The  words 
of  the  Evangelists  were  accepted  as  statements  of  abso- 
lutely historical  facts  by  the  early  Egyptian  Christians. 
The  humanity  of  Mary,  the  humanity  and  Divinity  of 
Christ,  His  Virgin-birth,  which  proved  the  reality  of 
His  Natures,  the  Human  and  the  Divine,  perfect  God 
and  perfect  Man,  the  Unity  of  His  Person,  and  the 
perpetual  virginity  of  Mary,  »/  BeoroKo?^  the  Mother 
of  God,  or  the  God-bearer,  have  been  the  foundations 
of  the  belief  of  the  Monophysite  Church  of  Egypt  for 
the  last  eighteen  hundred  years.  And  what  the  Copts 
believed  and  still  believe  they  handed  on  to  the  Chris- 
tian Ethiopians,  or  Abyssinians,  and  these  have  "  kept 
the  Faith  "  to  this  day. 

When  under  the  influence  of  the  teaching  of  the 
Apostles  and  Disciples  Christ's  Doctrine  spread  abroad 
in  the  regions  outside  Syria  and  Palestine,  the  converts 
to  Christianity  demanded  more  information  about  the 
life  of  Christ  when  upon  earth  and  that  of  Mary,  both 
before^nd  after  His  death,  than  the  Gospels  contained. 
The  result  of  this  demand  was  that  many,  both  those 
with  and  those  without  adequate  knowledge,  wrote  ac- 
counts of  the  manner  of  the  birth  and  the  infancy  of 
Christ,  and  stories  of  His  childhood,  and  accounts  of 
Mary,  which  found  general  acceptance.  H  we  are  to 
believe  all  that  is  written  in  the  works  of  the  Fathers 
on  the  subject  it  would  seem  that  every  Apostle,  and 
many  of  the  Disciples  wrote  Gospels.  In  any  case  it  is 
quite  clear  that  even  in  Apostolic  times  many  works  of 
this  kind  were  current  in  Syria  and  Egypt,  and  that 
they  were  soon  translated  into  languages  of  more  re- 
mote countries.   One  of  the  oldest  and  best  known  of 

^  Cyril,  Discourse  on  Mary  'Theotokos.  See  Budge,  Miscellaneous 
Coptic  Texts,  p.  628. 

xjcvi 


Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  iti  Ethiopia 

these  works  is  the  so-called  Protevangelion,  or  the 
Book  of  James  the  Less,  the  cousin  ("  brother  ")  of 
Christ,  and  the  first  Bishop  of  Jerusalem.  It  was  prob- 
ably written  in  Hebrew,  and  it  seems  to  have  existed  in 
the  first  century  a.d.  A  manuscript  of  the  work  was 
brought  to  Europe  by  G.  Postel  (born  1510,  died  1581) 
from  Constantinople  (?),  was  translated  by  him  into 
Latin  and  was  printed  at  Basle  in  1552.  From  this  book 
we  learn  that  Mary's  father  and  mother  were  called 
Joachim  and  Anna,  that  Joachim  consulted  the  Urim 
and  Thummim  about  the  birth  of  the  child,  whom  the 
angel  told  him  his  barren  wife  should  bear  to  him,  and 
it  describes  the  birth  of  Mary,  the  flight  of  Elisabeth 
to  the  mountains,  and  the  murder  of  Zacharias.^  Ver- 
sions and  extracts  of  this  work  exist  in  Syriac,  Coptic, 
Arabic,  and  Ethiopic. 

Another  ancient  work  of  the  kind  is  the  Gospel  of 
THE  Birth  of  Mary,  which  was  attributed  to  St. 
Matthew,  and  was  regarded  as  genuine  and  authentic 
by  many  early  Christian  sects.  In  the  third  chapter  it 
is  stated  that  an  angel  told  Joachim  that  God  had  shut 
up  the  womb  of  Anna  his  wife,  so  that  He  might  open 
it  in  a  more  wonderful  manner,  and  that  that  which 
should  be  born  of  her  would  be  not  the  product  of 
human  lust,  but  the  gift  of  God.^  Hence  in  later  times 
many  Christians  asserted  that  Mary  was  born  of  a  vir- 
gin, just  as  Christ  was  born  of  a  virgin.  The  Ethiopians 
have  turned  the  History  of  Hanna  into  a  service-book 
for  the  seven  days  of  the  week,  and  in  this  it  is  said  a 
dove  entered  her  body  and  that  she  conceived  Mary 
thirty  days  later.  A  complete  English  translation  of  the 

^  For  the  Greek  text  see  Tischendorf,  Evangelia  Apocrypha,  Leipzig, 
1876,  p.  I  ff. 

*  "  et  ideo  cum  alicujus  uterum  claudit,  ad  hoc  facit  ut  mirabilius 
denuo  apcriat,  et  non  hbidinis  esse  quod  nascitur  sed  divini  muneris 
cognoscatur." — De  Nativitate  Mariac,  ed.  Tischendorf,  op.  cit., 
p.  114. 

XXV  ii 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Ethiopia  text  will  be  found  on  pp.  1-53.  A  large  por- 
tion of  this  Gospel  is  repeated  in  the  Protevangelion. 
A  much  longer  work  dealing  with  the  Descent  of 
Mary  and  the  Infancy  of  Christ,  which  is  attributed 
to  St.  Matthew  and  believed  to  have  been  written  in 
Hebrew,  was  translated  into  Latin  by  St.  Jerome,  who 
called  it,  "  Liber  de  Ortu  Beatae  Mariae  et  Infantia 
Salvatoris."^  It  was  received  by  the  Gnostics  in  the 
second  century  and  is  quoted  by  Epiphanius  (Haer.  26. 
12),  and  later  Christian  Fathers,  e.g.  Eusebius,  Athana- 
sius  and  Chrysostom,  regarded  it  as  authentic  and 
genuine.  This  book  is  full  of  marvellous  stories  about 
Mary  and  the  Child,  and  many  of  these  have  found 
their  way  into  the  writings  of  the  Fathers  of  the 
Syrian,  Coptic  and  Ethiopian  Churches.  According  to 
one  legend  the  Holy  Family  were  carried  swiftly  into 
Egypt  from  Jerusalem  upon  a  cloud  of  light,  but  ac- 
cording to  another  they  travelled  thither  by  caravan 
and  suffered  greatly  on  the  road.  At  one  place  they 
took  shelter  in  a  cave  for  the  night,  and  they  found  it 
full  of  dragons  and  were  horribly  afraid.  But  Jesus 
came  down  from  His  mother's  bosom,  and  walked 
boldly  up  to  the  dragons,  which  at  once  fell  down  and 
worshipped  Him.  In  the  desert  the  lions  worshipped 
Jesus,  and  went  before  Him  to  show  Joseph  the  way. 
At  the  command  of  Jesus  some  palms  bent  down  their 
heads  so  that  Mary  might  gather  the  dates  growing  on 
them,  and  a  branch  of  one  of  the  palms  was  taken  to 
Paradise  and  planted  there,  and  it  is  still  growing  there. 
Jesus  shortened  the  way  to  Egypt  in  a  miraculous  man- 
ner, and  the  Holy  Family  travelled  in  one  day  over  a 
distance  that  usually  required  thirty  days  to  traverse. 
When  they  came  to  Hermopolis  (Heliopolis  ?)  they 
found  365  idols  in  the  temple  there,  and  as  Jesus  came 
to  the  temple  all  these  fell  down  and  were  broken  in 
pieces.  Mary  worked  miraculous  cures  by  means  of  her 

^  Published  by  Tischendorf,  op.  cit.,  p.  50  ff. 

xxviii 


Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

Son's  swaddling  bands,  and  lepers  were  healed  by  bath- 
ing in  the  water  in  which  they  had  been  washed.  On 
the  road  to  Memphis  Mary  met  the  two  thieves  Titus 
and  Dumachus,  who  thirty  years  later  were  crucified 
with  Christ.  According  to  the  Gospel  of  the  Infancy 
the  Holy  Family  remained  in  Egypt  three  years,  and 
they  saw  Pharaoh.  When  they  returned  to  Bethlehem 
Mary  worked  many  miracles,  and  Jesus  began  to  cast 
out  devils.  He  also  made  figures  of  birds  which  could 
fly,  and  of  animals  which  could  walk,  and  He  dyed  gar- 
ments different  colours  by  casting  them  into  the  fire. 
When  Joseph  made  doors  too  narrow  or  boxes  too  small, 
Jesus  widened  the  former  and  enlarged  the  latter.  At 
school  the  master  goes  to  whip  Jesus,  but  his  hand 
withered  and  he  died.  All  these  and  many  other  stories 
of  the  same  kind  found  their  way  into  the  legendary 
literature  of  Mary  and  Jesus  during  the  first  four  cen- 
turies, and  when  Gelasius  issued  his  decree  for  the  de- 
struction of  books  dealing  with  these  subjects  the  num- 
ber must  have  been  very  considerable. 

The  older  Apocryphal  Gospels  attributed  to  Mary 
the  power  to  work  miracles  nearly  as  marvellous  as  those 
worked  by  her  Son  during  His  Infancy  and  Boyhood, 
and  throughout  them  it  was  tacitly  assumed  that  her 
influence  over  Him  was  very  great,  and  that  He  granted 
all  her  requests.  The  natural  result  of  this  assumption 
was  that,  little  by  little,  men  magnified  the  power  of 
Mary,  and  in  their  private  prayers,  at  least,  appealed 
to  her  in  their  difficulties,  and  besought  her  to  inter- 
cede with  her  Son  on  their  behalf.  At  the  same  time 
their  interest  in  her  history  grew  steadily,  and  stories  of 
her  birth  and  childhood,  and  of  her  life  in  the  Temple 
and  after  the  death  of  Christ,  were  in  great  demand. 
Every  tradition  of  her  was  carefully  preserved,  and 
every  detail  was  regarded  as  a  piece  of  precious  infor- 
mation worthy  to  be  written  down  for  perusal  by  the 
faithful.   The  authorities  of  the  Church  prepared  nar- 

xxix 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

rativcs  of  her  life  which  they  declared  they  had  received 
from  Mary  herself,  who  appeared  to  them  in  answer  to 
their  urgent  petitions  ;  the  substance  of  such  narra- 
tives was  derived  chiefly  from  the  Apocryphal  Gospels 
mentioned  above.  Thus  we  have  one  narrative  attri- 
buted to  Theophilus,  Patriarch  of  Alexandria  (see  pp. 
61-80),  and  another  to  Timothy,  another  Patriarch  of 
Alexandria  (see  pp.  81-101).  An  account  of  her  death 
(see  pp.  152-167),  which  was  believed  to  have  been 
written  by  St.  John,  and  a  short  history  of  how  the 
manuscript  of  it  was  discovered  (see  pp.  143-15 1),  were 
regarded  as  authentic  and  genuine,  and  treasured  ac- 
cordingly. Many  of  the  Fathers  wrote  Homilies  upon 
Mary,  and  the  short  extracts  from  some  of  them  given 
below  illustrate  the  manner  in  which  her  life  was 
treated  by  them.^ 

Of  her  life  in  the  Temple  Cyril  of  Jerusalem  says*: 
"  They  (i.e.  Joakim  and  Anna)  were  in  the  habit  of 
visiting  their  daughter  once  each  month,  when  they 
carried  to  her  whatsoever  things  of  which  she  had  need. 
And  their  little  virgin  daughter  ministered  in  the 
Temple  with  the  other  women,  who  were  aged  virgins, 
and  they  taught  her  to  work  with  her  hands.  And  when 
she  had  become  somewhat  master  of  herself  she  used  to 
go  alone  into  the  court  of  the  Temple,  but  no  man 
whatsoever  saw  her,  with  the  exception  of  the  priest 
and  her  father.  Her  food  consisted  of  bread  and  water 
and  a  few  green  herbs,  and  she  did  not  fast  for  long 
periods  at  a  time.  .  .  .  The  little  Virgin  Mary  was  in 
the  Temple,  and  she  remained  by  herself  before  the 
Archangel  Gabriel  came  to  her  with  a  sweet  odour.  .  .  . 
There  was  no  limit  to  her  beauty,  and  the  Temple  was 
wont  to  be  filled  with  angels  because  of  her  sweet  odour, 

^  The  extracts  are  from  the  Coptic  Homilies  by  Cyril  of  Jerusalem, 
Demetrius  of  Antioch,  and  Cyril,  Archbishop  of  Alexandria,  edited 
and  translated  by  E.  A.  Wallis  I3udge,  Miscellaneous  Coptic  Texts  in  the 
Dialect  of  Upper  Egypt,  London,  19 15. 

XXX 


Worship  of  the  Vir'gifi  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

and  thev  used  to  visit  her  for  the  sake  of  her  conversa- 
tion.  .  .  .  The  whole  time  of  her  life  was  sixty  years." 

Demetrius,  Archbishop  of  Antioch,  said  on  the 
birthday  of  our  Lord  on  the  29th  day  of  the  month 
Khoiakh  : — 

When  Mary  was  three  years  old  Anna  took  her  to 
the  Temple.  "At  the  moment  when  her  mother  Anna 
set  her  upon  her  feet,  inside  the  door  of  the  Temple, 
before  the  priests,  she  walked  by  herself  into  the 
Temple,  and  went  on  until  she  arrived  in  the  place  be- 
hind the  veil  of  the  altar,  whereon  were  offered  up  the 
sacrifices  of  the  Lord.  And  when  she  had  gone  in  she 
did  not  turn  back  to  come  out  again,  neither  did  one 
thought  of  her  parents  rise  up  in  her  heart,  nor  any 
thought  of  any  earthly  thing.  .  .  .  And  when  she  had 
grown,  and  was  eight  or  ten  years  old,  she  became  a 
type  to  the  priests,  and  they  were  afraid  to  meet  her, 
for  her  whole  body  was  pure,  and  her  heart  was  firm  in 
the  Lord.  She  was  pure  in  her  body  and  in  her  soul, 
she  never  put  her  face  outside  the  door  of  the  Temple, 
she  never  looked  at  a  strange  man,  and  she  never  moved 
herself  to  gaze  upon  the  face  of  a  young  man.  And  she 
lived  in  chastity,  and  in  the  service  of  God,  and  in  the 
ordered  service  of  the  Temple.  Her  apparel  was  dainty 
Her  tunic  came  down  over  her  seal,  and  her  headcloth 
came  down  over  her  eyes.  She  wore  a  girdle  round  her 
tunic,  and  her  tunic  was  never  soiled  or  torn.  She  never 
put  eye-paint  on  her  eyes,  and  she  did  not  lay  crocus- 
flower  unguent  on  her  cheeks.  She  did  not  put  slippers 
on  her  feet  as  ornaments,  and  she  wore  neither  armlets 
nor  bracelets,  nortrinketsnor  jewellery  on  her  arms  and 
hands.  She  never  craved  for  much  food,  neither  did  she 
ever  walk  about  in  the  market-place  of  her  city.  She 
never  lusted  for  the  works  of  this  world.  She  never 
stripped  herself  naked,  and  she  never  washed  in  the 
[public]  bath,  and  she  never  examined  with  careful 
attention  the  members  of  her  body." 

xxxi 


Legends  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

After  Joseph  had  taken  her  to  his  house  "  she  went 
into  her  own  room  and  took  up  her  abode  therein,  and 
she  never  came  down  the  stairs  except  on  the  day  when 
she  departed  to  Torine,^  and  also  on  the  day  wherein 
Joseph  took  her  to  Bethlehem  to  register  his  own  name, 
and  the  names  of  herself  and  her  Child.  .  .  .  And  she 
sat  in  his  house,  and  she  worked  at  weaving  purple  into 
the  veil  of  the  Temple,  according  to  the  rule  concern- 
ing virgins.  She  never  saw  any  man  whatsoever,  but  the 
angels  came  and  ministered  unto  her,  and  they  passed 
the  whole  day  standing  before  her  in  the  form  of  young 
doves,  and  they  gave  her  courage,  and  they  comforted 
her.  And  she  sat  in  Joseph's  house  for  three  years,  and 
his  sons  ministered  unto  her." 

Another  description  of  Mary's  life  before  the  Annun- 
ciation is  given  us  by  Cyril  of  Alexandria,  who  says  to 
the  women  in  his  congregation,  "  Come,  O  all  ye 
women  who  desire  virginity,  emulate  the  example  of 
Mary,  the  mother  of  thy  Lord.  Consider  ye  her  coarse 
and  meagre  food  and  her  sleeping  on  the  ground.  She 
craved  for  none  of  the  things  of  this  world.  The  men- 
tion of  her  was  always  in  the  mouths  of  the  priests.  She 
never  washed  herself  in  a  [public]  bath.  She  never 
adorned  herself  with  face-paint,  and  eye-paint,  and 
powder.  She  never  decked  herself  out  in  brightly  col- 
oured raiment,  as  do  all  women  who  love  fine  clothes. 
She  never  tasted  wine.  She  used  to  sit  always  with  her 
face  turned  towards  the  east,  for  she  was  always  await- 
ing the  Creator  of  the  world.  She  never  met  and  talked 
to  any  one,  except  her  father,  and  her  mother,  and  her 
brethren." 

For  the  Discourse  of  Demetrius  of  Antioch  on  the 
Virgin  Mary  following  the  Annunciation  of  Gabriel 
we  have  a  very  interesting  group  of  Salutations  to 
Mary  which  summarizes  in  a  remarkable  way  the  views 
that  both  Egyptians  and  Ethiopians  held  concerning 

^  The  village  near  Jerusalem  where  Mary's  cousin  Elisabeth  lived. 
xxxii 


Worship  of  the  Virgm  Ma?y  in  Rthiopia 

the  mother  of  Jesus.  The  manuscript  in  which  they  are 
found  (Oriental  No.  7027)  was  written  in  the  721st  year 
of  the  Era  of  the  Martyrs  (a.d.  1005),  and  the  scribe 
was  Victor,  the  son  of  Mercurius,  a  deacon  of  the 
Church  of  St.  Mercurius  at  Esna,  or  Asna  (Latopolis). 
Of  the  archetype  we  know  nothing,  but  we  may  assume 
that  it  was  old  and  authoritative.  These  Aves,  or  "Hail 
Marys,"  are  so  important  that  I  transcribe  them  in  f  ull.^ 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  woman  whose  fruit  shall  give  sal- 
vation to  the  world  and  to  all  mankind  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  spotless  Dove  !  in  whom  there  is 
no  blemish,  to  whom  is  sent  the  choice,  sweet  odour  by 
me,  Gabriel. 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  who  shalt  clothe  the  whole  world  in  the 
apparel  of  salvation  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  through  whom  salvation  shall  come  to 
the  whole  world,  because  of  thy  walking  in  it  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  who  art  the  choicest  thing  in 
heaven  and  upon  the  earth  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  Tower,  wherein  is  the  King's 
treasure ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  who  hast  given  us  an  entrance  into 
heaven  ! 

1  See  Budge,  ^Liscellancous  Coptic  Texts,  p.  662  ff. 

c  xxxiii 


Lege?tds  of  the  Virghi  Mary 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  AIary,  who  hast  opened  to  us  the  door  of  Para- 
dise, which  was  closed  through  the  transgression  of 
Adam  and  Eve  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  second  Ark  which  hath  saved  the 
world  from  the  destruction  of  impiety ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  beautiful  Lamb,  who  hast  pro- 
vided us  with  the  pure  wool  and  the  apparel  of  incor- 
ruption  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  Pot  of  gold,  wherein  was  the 
manna  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  who  didst  remove  the  enmity  which 
existed  between  God  and  us ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  Sweet  Perfume  that  mounted  up  be- 
fore God  Almighty  until  He  became  reconciled  to  His 
creation  which  He  created  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  Tent  of  the  Godhead,  wherein  the 
Only-begotten  of  the  Father  hath  reposed  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  Ark,  covered  all  over  with  gold, 
wherein  God  the  Father  sojourned  in  the  Form  of  His 
Holy  Word  ! 

xxxiv 


Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

[Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee.] 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  Bread  that  hath  come  from 
heaven  to  satisfy  hungry  souls  and  to  fill  them  with 
good  things ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  thou  who  dost  deliver  every  one  from 
the  storm  of  the  Devil,  and  dost  bring  them  into  the 
haven  of  salvation ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail  [Mary],  Bride  unpolluted  and  unblemished, 
who  hast  prepared  for  us  the  path  of  salvation  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  through  and  by  whom  all  the  women  of 
the  world  have  acquired  freedom  of  speech  with  her 
Lord! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  holy  Table,  whereon  the  Sacrifice 
that  reasoneth  is  slain  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  the  light  of  whose  Son  hath  filled  the 
whole  world  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  whose  holy  birth-pangs  were  awaited  by 
heaven  and  by  earth  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  good  Root  who  hast  made  to 
blossom  for  us  the  fruit  of  righteousness  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

XXXV 


Legends  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

Hail,  Mary,  who  hast  made  to  sprout  the  blessed 
seed  of  the  fruit  of  righteousness  of  the  Tree  of  Life  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  Golden  Candlestick  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Hail,  Mary,  thou  new  Cistern  wherein  is  the  salt 
which  will  sweeten  that  which  is  bitter  ! 

Hail,  thou  who  hast  found  favour  !  The  Lord  is 
with  thee. 

Concerning  Mary  as  the  loving  mother  of  Jesus 
Cyril  of  Alexandria  writes  as  follows  : — 

"  O  my  beloved,  ye  God-fearing  people,  open  ye  the 
ears  of  your  hearts,  and  hearken  unto  [the  story  of]  the 
honour  of  the  Mother  of  God,  the  Queen  of  all  women, 
the  true  Bride,  whom  the  Son  of  God  held  in  high 
esteem.  He  came  and  dwelt  in  her  wombAfor  nine 
months,  and  she  brought  Him  forth  for  our  sakes  in 
Bethlehem.  She  wrapped  Him  in  strips  of  ragged  stuff, 
she  laid  Him  in  a  cattle  manger,  and  the  beasts  looked 
upon  Him  and  recognized  Him  and  protected  Him. 
Thou  didst  stretch  out  thy  right  arm,  thou  didst  take 
Him  and  make  Him  to  lie  on  thy  left  arm.  Thou  didst 
bend  thy  neck,  and  let  thy  hair  fall  down  over  Him. 
Thou  didst  kiss  His  mouth  as  the  Father  kissed  His 
mouth  in  heaven,  and  thou  didst  seat  Him  upon  thy 
knees.  He  lifted  up  His  eyes  to  thy  face.  He  stretched 
forth  His  hand.  He  took  thy  breast,  and  He  drew  into 
His  mouth  the  milk  which  was  sweeter  than  manna. 
The  savour  of  thy  sacrifice  was  sweeter  to  Him  than  the 
savour  of  the  sacrifice  of  Noah.  He  drank  from  thy  im- 
maculate breasts.  He  called  thee  '  My  Mother.' 

"  Come  ye  and  behold  God  calling  Mary  '  My 
Mother  '  and  kissing  her  mouth.  And  as  she  kissed  His 
mouth  she  called  Him  always '  My  Lord,  and  my  Son/ 

xxxvi 


Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  i?i  Ethiopia 

She  worshipped  Him  ;  for  when  she  used  to  give  Him 
her  breast  she  bowed  down  her  head  towards  Him, 
whilst  He  stood  like  a  tower  ;  and  then  she  worshipped 
Him,  saying,  '  My  Lord,  and  my  Son.'  And  after  these 
things  she  used  to  take  hold  of  His  hand,  and  lead  Him 
along  the  roads,  saying,  '  My  sweet  Son,  walk  a  little 
way,'  in  the  same  manner  as  all  other  babes  are  taught 
to  walk.  And  He,  Jesus,  the  Very  God,  followed  after 
her  without  trouble.  He  clung  to  her  with  His  little 
fingers.  He  stopped  from  time  to  time,  and  He  hung 
on  to  the  skirts  of  Mary  His  mother — He  upon  Whom 
all  creation  hangeth  !  He  used  to  look  up  into  her  face 
— He  upon  Whom  the  whole  universe  hangeth  and  by 
Whom  it  is  sustained — and  she  would  snatch  Him  to 
her  body,  and  lift  Him  up  in  her  arms,  and  carry  Him 
along.  Come,  O  all  ye  women,  and  look  upon  Mary, 
and  behold  God,  Who  clave  her  side,  lifting  up  His  face 
and  kissing  her!  Walk  on,  walk  on,  O  daughter  of  Sion, 
I  mean  thee,  Mary.  Behold,  the  King,  the  Christ, 
[resteth]  on  thee,  for  the  King,  the  Christ,  is  with 
thee,  He  is  sitting  in  thy  arms  !  The  Father  hath  made 
Himself  a  fellow-worker  with  thee,  the  Son  hath  made 
H^imself  thy  kinsman,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  is  inseparable 
from  thee.  The  angels  are  subject  unto  thee,  for  He 
loveth  thee,  and  hath  sojourned  with  thee  because  of 
thy  purity.  For  thou  alone  among  all  women  hast 
found  favour  with  God,  for  the  Lord  is  v/ith  thee.  Lift 
up  thine  hands  on  high  and  receive  from  God  the 
Father  the  Image  of  His  Son  and  carry  it  on  thy  head. "^ 

But  it  was  not  angels  and  men  alone  who  honoured 
Mary  and  worshipped  her  as  the  Mother  of  God,  for 
Christ  Himself,  when  He  rose  from  the  dead  and  ap- 
peared to  her  and  the  other  women  at  the  tomb 
mounted  on  the  chariot  of  the  Father  of  the  Universe, 
cried  out,  saying,  "  Mari  Khar  Mariath,"  that  is  to 

^  Budge,  Miscellaneous  Coptic  Texts,  p.  717  f. 

xxxvii 


Lege7ids  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

say,  "  Mary,  the  Mother  of  the  Son  of  God."  Then 
Mary,  who  knew  the  meaning  of  the  words,  said, 
"  Hramboune  Kathiathari  Mioth,"  whereof  the  in- 
terpretation is,  "  The  Son  of  the  Almighty,  and  my 
Son."  And  He  said  unto  her,  "  Hail,  My  Mother  ! 
Hail,  My  holy  Ark  !  Hail,  thou  who  art  the  Sustainer 
of  the  life  of  the  whole  world  !  Hail,  My  holy  Gar- 
ment, wherein  I  arrayed  Myself  !  Hail,  My  Waterpot, 
which  is  full  of  holy  water  !  Hail,  My  Mother,  My 
House,  My  Place  of  Abode  !  Hail,  My  Mother,  My 
City,  My  Place  of  Refuge  !  Hail,  thou  who  hast  re- 
ceived into  thine  own  composition  the  Seven  -^ons  ! 
Hail,  thou  Table,  set  in  the  Paradise  of  the  Seventh 
Heaven,  the  name  of  which  is  '  Khomthomakh  !  '  All 
Paradise  rejoiceth  in  thee.  I  say  unto  thee,  O  My 
Mother,  He  who  loveth  thee  loveth  Life.  Hail,  thou 
who  didst  sustain  the  Life  of  the  Universe  in  thy 
womb  !  .  .  .  I  will  give  My  peace,  which  I  have  re- 
ceived from  My  Holy  Father,  to  My  disciples,  and  to 
every  one  who  shall  believe  in  My  Name  and  in  Mary, 
My  Mother,  the  Virgin  in  very  truth.  My  spiritual 
Womb,  My  Treasure  of  Pearl,  the  Ark  of  the  sons  of 
Adam,  who  carried  the  body  of  the  Son  of  God,  and 
the  Blood  of  Him  Who  indeed  took  away  the  sin  of  the 
world." 

And  round  and  about  Him  there  were  standing  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  Archangels,  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  the  Cherubim,  and  millions  of  the  Sera- 
phim, and  millions  of  the  Powers,  and  their  heads  were 
bowed,  and  they  made  answer  to  the  blessing,  saying, 
"Amen,  Hallelujah,"  to  that  which  the  Son  did  speak 
with  His  mouth  to  Mary.  Then  our  Saviour  stretched 
out  His  right  hand,  which  was  full  of  blessing,  and  He 
blessed  the  womb  of  Mary,  His  Mother.  And  I  [Bar- 
tholomew] saw  the  heavens  open,  and  the  Seven  Firma- 
ments were  opened  together.  I  saw  a  man  of  light 
shining  brightly,  like  unto  a  pearl  upon  which  it  was 

xxxviii 


Worship  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary  i?i  Ethiopia 

impossible  for  any  man  to  look.  And  [I  saw]  also  a  hand 
of  fire  which  was  of  the  colour  of  snow,  and  it  rested 
upon  the  belly  of  Mary  and  [her]  breast.  Now  this 
hand  was  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and  the  right 
hand  of  the  Son,  and  the  right  hand  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
And  He  blessed  .  .  .^  [and  said]  .  .  .  Thou  shalt  be 
called '  Pearl  of  the  Father,'  and  on  earth  men  shall 
call  thee  '  Mother  of  God  '  and  '  oar  Salvation.'  The 
blessing  of  the  Father  shall  be  with  thee  always.  Amen. 
Hallelujah.  The  might  of  the  Son  shall  overshadow 
thee.  Amen.  Hallelujah.  The  joy  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
shall  continue  to  remain  with  thee  at  all  times.  Amen. 
Hallelujah.  And  when  thou  shalt  come  forth  from  the 
body  I  Myself  will  come  with  My  Father,  and  Michael, 
and  all  the  angels,  and  thou  shalt  be  with  Us  in  My 
kingdom.  And  over  thy  body  I  will  make  the  Cheru- 
bim, having  a  sword  of  fire,  to  keep  watch,  and  twelve 
hundred  angels  also  shall  watch  over  it  until  the  day  of 
My  appearance  and  of  My  [kingdom]."^ 

It  follows  of  necessity  that  men  and  women  who 
attributed  such  power  and  glory  to  Mary  would  not 
fail  to  beseech  her  to  help  them  in  their  daily  troubles 
and  afiiictions,  and  to  be  their  intercessor  with  Christ 
in  heaven.  That  such  was  the  case  is  proved  by  the 
Discourses  of  many  eminent  spiritual  heads,  and  from 
those  which  have  come  down  to  us  in  Coptic  the  fol- 
lowing passages  are  quoted  : — 

Epiphanius,  Bishop  of  Cyprus,  says  : — "  I  beseech 
thee,  O  Virgin,  Mother  of  God,  to  help  me  Epipha- 
nius, thy  worthless  servant,  and  to  make  supplication 
to  Christ  on  behalf  of  all  the  people  of  my  city,  nay 
more,  of  the  whole  world,  and  to  be  nigh  unto  me  at 
all  times.  For  unto  thee  more  than  to  all  the  saints  be- 
longeth  the  power  to  make  supplication  unto  Him,  so 

^  The  text  is  mutilated. 

^  I  quote  from  the  Book  of  the  Resurrection  of  Christ,  by  Bartholo- 
mew the  Apostle  (ed.  Budge,  Coptic  Apocrypha,  p.  191). 

xxxix 


Lege7ids  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary 

that  He  may  fill  the  hungry  with  bread,  and  may  heal 
the  sick,  and  may  lead  those  who  have  gone  astray  back 
into  His  holy  fold.''^ 

Cyril  of  Alexandria  says  : — "  O  wise  Virgin,  I  be- 
seech thee  to  bring  the  favour  of  God,  Who  is  thy  Son, 
upon  us,  and  may  He  forgive  us  our  sins,  and  deliver  us 
from  all  the  crafts  of  the  Adversary  the  Devil.  Take 
us  all  to  thyself,  lest  the  Devil  take  delight  in  us  and 
draw  us  down  into  the  Gehenna  of  fire.  O  Mary,  do 
thou  draw  nigh  unto  the  King,  the  Christ,  that  He  may 
receive  thy  supplication  on  our  behalf,  for  He  is  thy 
Son  and  thy  Beloved,  and  thou  didst  bear  Him,  and  He 
called  thee  '  My  Mother.'  Verily,  O  Mary  the  Virgin, 
thy  honour  is  greater  than  that  of  all  the  other  women 
in  the  world.  He  Who  breathed  breath  into  every 
created  being  called  thee  '  My  Mother  '  !  Thou  art 
more  exalted  than  the  Cherubim  and  the  Seraphim, 
thou  art  more  blessed  than  the  Thrones,  because  the 
Christ  loved  thee.  He  sojourned  with  thee  because 
thou  art  Saint  Mary,  the  perpetual  Virgin."- 

When  and  by  what  means  Egyptian  Christianity  en- 
tered Ethiopia  is  not  known  with  certainty.  Communi- 
cation by  caravans  must  always  have  been  kept  up 
between  Syria  and  the  more  north-easterly  parts  of 
Ethiopia,  or  Abyssinia,  and  it  is  very  probable  that 
some  knowledge  of  Christianity  was  carried  into  them 
before  the  time  of  Frumentius  by  caravans  and  traders 
of  various  nationalities.  And  individual  travellers,  like 
the  eunuch  whom  St.  Philip  baptized,  may  well  have 
carried  back  into  Ethiopia  the  news  of  the  Gospel.  The 
Christians  in  Egypt  were  sufficiently  numerous  at  the 
end  of  the  second  century  to  incur  the  wrath  of  the 
Romans,  who  started  a  general  persecution  of  them  in 
the  reign  of  Severus.  The  persecution  of  the  Christians 
continued  under  Decius,  Valerian  and  Diocletian,  and 

^  Budge,  Miscellaneous  Coptic  Texts,  p.  714. 
2  Ibid.,Tp.  723. 


Worship  of  the  Vir^gin  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

large  numbers  of  them  fled  into  Upper  Egypt,  Nubia 
and  the  Northern  Sudan.  If  we  may  believe  Bar- 
Hebraeus  {flist.  Dynast.,  text  p.  135)  Christianity  had 
penetrated  into  the  Sudan,  Nuba  and  Abyssinia,  as  well 
as  all  Egypt,  in  the  time  of  Constantine.  Before  the 
close  of  the  Vlth  century,  and  during  the  reign  of  Silko, 
the  official  religion  of  Nubia  was  Christian,  and  the 
capital  of  the  ncM^  Christian  kingdom  was  Old  Dongola. 
In  process  of  time  Christianity  spread  southwards,  and 
during  the  Middle  Ages  there  were  four  hundred 
churches  in  the  kingdom  of  'Aiwa,  which  was  probably 
situated  near  the  modern  town  of  Khartum.  Alvarez 
talked  to  a  certain  "  John  of  Syria  "  who  stated  that 
there  were  still  in  the  country  one  hundred  and  fifty 
churches  which  contained  crucifixes  and  pictures  of  the 
Virgin  Mary  painted  on  the  walls,  and  that  they  all 
were  old.^  These  facts  justify  the  assumption  that  there 
were  many  Christians  in  all  parts  of  Ethiopia  at  this 
time  ;  but  the  oldest  and  finest  remains  of  early  Chris- 
tianity in  the  country  were  to  be  found  in  Aksum  and 
its  neighbourhood. 

When  the  worship  or  cult  of  the  Virgin  began  in 
Ethiopia  cannot  be  stated  with  certainty,  but  there 
seems  to  be  no  reason  for  doubting  that  invocations 
were  made  to  her  as  soon  as  her  history  was  known  and 
accepted  by  the  people.  Pictures  of  the  Virgin  must 
have  been  common  in  Egypt  before  the  close  of  the 
third  century,  and  it  is  probable  that  the  figures  of  Isis 
and  Horus  sug-gestcd  the  form  thev  should  take.  In  the 
fifth  century  pictures  of  Mary  and  the  Child  became 
commoner  still,  and  this  may  have  been  the  result  of 
the  overthrow  of  Nestorius  and  his  heresy  at  the 
Council  of  Ephesus  in  431.  The  Monophysites,  or 
Christians  who  believed  that  the  divine  and  human 
were  blended  in  one  incarnate  Nature  in  Christ,  were 
convinced  that  Mary  was  the  Mother  of  God,  and  the 

1  See  Butler's  note  in  Abu  Salih  (ed.  Evetts),  p.  264. 

xH 


Legends  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

original  form  of  the  group  known  as  the  "  Madonna 
and  Child  "  became  once  and  for  all  the  expression  of 
the  Orthodox  Faith.  Wherever  the  knowledge  of  the 
Monophysite,  or  Jacobite,  or  Eutychian  Faith  pene- 
trated, there  went  pictures  of  the  Virgin.  Saint  Augus- 
tine (born  354,  died  430)  did  not  believe  that  any  of  the 
existing  portraits  of  the  Virgin  were  authentic,  but  very 
great  veneration  was  paid  to  the  picture  of  the  Virgin 
and  Child  which  Eudocia  Aelia  (born  393,  died  450), 
wife  of  Theodosius,  acquired  in  the  Holy  Land  and 
sent  to  her  sister-in-law  Pulcheria  in  Constantinople. 
It  was  believed  to  be  very  old,  and  tradition  asserted 
that  it  was  painted  from  life.  Many  enthusiasts  assumed 
that  St.  Luke  was  the  painter.  Be  this  as  it  may,  in  the 
sixth  century  the  churches  in  Syria  and  Egypt  were  full 
of  pictures  of  Christ  and  the  Virgin,  and  saints  and 
martyrs.  During  the  second  half  of  the  seventh  century 
the  Copts  held  under  the  Arabs,  the  new  masters  of 
Egypt,  many  lucrative  positions,  and  they  were  able  to 
assist  materially  the  offshoot  Christian  community  of 
Ethiopia.  It  was  probably  about  this  time  that  many 
Coptic  books,  including  the  great  service  "  Theotokia," 
whence  was  derived  the  Ethiopic  Weddase  Maryam,  or 
"  Book  of  Praise  of  Mary,"  were  translated  into  Arabic 
and  Ethiopic. 

Little  is  known  of  the  Ethiopian  Church,  but  its 
members  suffered  much  at  the  hands  of  the  Arabs  when 
they  extended  their  conquests  in  East  Africa  in  general 
and  in  the  Eastern  Desert  and  Ethiopia  in  particular. 
Both  the  native  pagans  and  the  foreign  Arabs  attacked 
the  Christians  and  burnt  their  churches  and  books,  and 
during  the  rule  of  the  eleven  Zague  (a.d.  914-1268) 
kings  the  Christian  literature  of  Ethiopia  was  almost 
wiped  out.  When  the  rule  of  the  Solomonic  line  of 
kings  was  restored  in  the  second  half  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  the  monks  brought  from  their  hiding-places 
the  few  manuscripts  that  had  escaped  the  fury  of  the 

xlii 


Worship  of  the  Virgt7i  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

Arabs,  and  such  scribes  as  were  available  began  to  make 
copies  from  them.  But  the  old  Ethiopic  versions  of 
many  books  had  been  entirely  destroyed,  and  new  trans- 
lations had  to  be  made  from  Arabic  versions.  There 
seems  to  have  been  increased  literary  activity  in  Ethio- 
pia during  the  XlVth  century,  and  believers  were 
greatly  stimulated  in  their  faith  through  the  arrival 
there  of  a  piece  of  the  wood  of  the  Cross  on  which 
Christ  died  ;  this  was  in  the  reign  of  Wedem  Asgari 
(a.d.  1 380-1409),  commonly  known  as  David  II.  It  is 
doubtful  if  any  of  the  manuscripts  written  in  the  XlVth 
century  have  found  their  way  into  European  Libraries, 
though  some  scholars  have  thought  that  the  Brit.  Mus. 
MS.  No.  719^  may  have  been  copied  during  the  closing 
years  of  that  century.  All  that  is  certain  about  it  is  that 
it  was  written  by  one  'Abba  'Amha,  for  the  Church  of 
Golgotha,  before  the  reign  of  Zar'a  Ya'kob,  or  Con- 
stantine,  i.e.  before  a.d.  1434,  the  first  regnal  year  of 
this  king. 

Under  the  patronage  of  Zar'a  Ya'kob  (a.d.  1434- 
1468)  many  copies  of  ancient  works  were  made,  for  the 
king  was  religious  as  well  as  wise,  and  the  peaceable  re- 
lations that  existed  between  him  and  the  Khalifah  of 
Egypt  gave  him  time  to  consider  other  matters  than 
fighting  and  war.  He  endowed  an  Abyssinian  monas- 
tery at  Jerusalem,  and  obtained  permission  from  the 
Pope  to  establish  another  in  Rome.  He  also  encouraged 
public  or  semi-public  discussions  on  religion,  and  on  one 
occasion  'Abba  George  succeeded  in  overcoming  in 
argument  the  European  who  was  disputing  with  him. 
The  European  was  probably  Brancaleone,  the  Venetian 
painter,  of  whom  more  will  be  said  presently.  Zar'a 
Ya'kob  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Ba'eda  Maryam  (a.d. 
1468-1478),  who  was  a  prudent  and  peaceful  king,  and 
who  introduced  into  his  Government  men  of  honesty 

1  This  MS.  contains  the  History  of  King  Lalibala  of  Lasta.    See 
Wright,  Catalogue,  p.  193  (No.  CCXCIV). 

xliii 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

and  high  principle.  But  his  reign  was  disturbed  by  re- 
ligious quarrels  among  the  clergy,  for  many  of  his 
people  adopted  the  heresy  of  certain  teachers  who  de- 
nied that  Christ  was  very  man,  because  His  flesh  was 
composed  of  some  substance  which  was  entirely  differ- 
ent from  that  of  ordinary  men  and  women.  A  native 
Council  condemned  the  heresy,  and  tortured  its  adher- 
ents, and  killed  many  by  starvation  in  the  prisons.  A 
more  serious  disturbance  was  caused  in  religious  circles 
by  a  certain  Niccolo  Brancaleone,  a  Venetian  painter, 
who  was  commonly  called  in  the  country  "  Macoreo  " 
or  "  Marcoreos."  The  exact  year  of  his  coming  to 
Ethiopia  is  unknown,  but  he  lived  there  for  forty  years, 
and  knew  the  language  well,  and  could  when  necessary 
live  like  the  natives  and  eat  and  drink  what  they  did. 
Alvarez  calls  him  Nicolas  Brancoliam,  and  says  that  he 
"  was  a  very  honourable  person,  and  a  great  gentleman, 
although  a  painter  .  .  .  they  said  that  he  was  a  friar  be- 
fore he  came  to  this  country. "^  When  Alvarez  per- 
formed the  Mass  he  acted  as  the  fugleman  of  the  priests 
and  canons  and  told  them  what  was  being  done  in  the 
Mass.  This  painter  had  been  employed  by  Zar'a 
Ya'kob  to  decorate  the  churches  with  pictures  of  saints 
and  of  incidents  and  events  described  in  the  Bible,  and 
he  was  greatly  favoured  by  Ba'eda  Maryam.  This  king 
was  building,  or  rather  restoring,  a  church  dedicated 
to  Mary  the  Virgin,  and  he  commissioned  Brancaleone 
to  paint  an  altar  piece  for  it,  the  subject  to  be  the 
Virgin  and  Child.  Now  in  the  native  pictures  of  the 
Virgin  and  Child  the  Child  was  represented  as  being 
encircled  by  His  mother's  right  arm,  as  we  may  see  from 
the  annexed  plate  which  is  reproduced  from  a  fifteenth- 
century  Book  of  Miracles  of  the  Virgin  in  Ethiopic  in 
the  British  Museum.  Brancaleone  painted  a  very  fine 
picture,  and,  according  to  the  Italian  fashion  and  that 

1  Alvarez,  F.,  Narrative  oj  the  Portuguese  Embassy  to  Abyssinia, 
translated  by  Lord  Stanley  of  Alderley.   London,  1881,  p.  210. 

xliv 


Worship  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

of  the  Copts,  represented  the  Child  as  encircled  by  His 
mother's  left  arm.  When  the  clergy  and  the  monks  saw 
the  picture  they  were  fired  with  rage,  partly  because 
the  picture  was  the  work  of  Brancaleone,  who  had  been 
mixed  up  with  the  heresy  mentioned  above,  and  partly 
because  they  thought  that  an  insult  had  been  offered  to 
our  Lord  by  him  in  representing  the  Child  as  encircled 
by  Mary's  left  arm.  As  the  Ethiopians  used  the  left 
hand  in  washing  the  body  it  was  regarded  by  them  as 
"  the  hand  of  dishonour,"  and  they  saluted  with  the 
right  hand  only,  and  dipped  the  right  hand  only  into 
the  dish  at  meal  times.  The  king  admired  the  picture, 
and  gave  his  people  to  understand  that  their  objections 
were  absurd,  and  when  the  malcontents  saw  that  their 
objections  were  not  going  to  be  considered,  they  ceased 
to  complain  and  quickly  disappeared.  The  picture  was 
placed  in  the  church  of  Mary,  where  it  remained  until 
the  first  half  of  the  XVIIIth  century,  when  it  was  de- 
stroyed, together  with  the  church,  by  the  Gallas. 

Many  important  manuscripts  were  copied  in  the 
XVth  century,  e.g.  the  Gadla  Hawaryat  or  "  Con- 
tendings  of  the  Apostles  "  (Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No. 
678)  ;  the  book  of  Homilies  of  the  Jacobite  Fathers, 
recently  acquired  by  the  British  Museum  (Orient.  No. 
8192) ;  and  the  Acts  of  Basilides,  which  are  attributed 
to  Celestinus,  Bishop  of  Rome  (Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient. 
No.  706).  These  Acts  were  translated  from  Coptic  into 
Ethiopic  A.M.  6889  =  A.D.  1397,  by  'Ab  Sim'on,  a  monk 
of  the  Monastery  of  St.  Anthony  (Wright,  Catalogue, 
p.  186).  That  the  worship  of  Mary  was  restored  com- 
pletely is  proved  by  the  existence  of  the  XVth  century 
copy  of  the  Weddase  Maryam  in  the  British  Museum 
(Add.  18994).  This  book  is  bound  up  with  the  Psalms 
of  David  and  the  Canticles  and  prayers  for  the  canon- 
ical hours,  and  it  is  quite  clear  that  it  formed  a  promi- 
nent section  of  the  daily  service-book.  More  instructive 
still  is  the  fine  manuscript  Oriental  No.  650,  which  con- 

xlv 


Lege7icis  of  the  Virg'm  Mary 

tains  the  Miracles  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary,  fifty-five 
in  number,  and  a  tract  on  her  Festivals.  It  was  written 
for  Zar'a  Ya'kob  (a.d.  1434- 1468)  and  was  given  by  him 
to  a  church  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  On  the  upper  margins 
are  written  deeds  of  gifts  made  by  various  kings  down 
to  A.D.  1 71 4,  lists  of  church  property,  etc.  Equally 
important  for  the  study  of  the  worship  of  Mary  in 
Ethiopia  is  Orient.  No.  652,  which  also  contains 
Miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  160  in  number.  These 
are  for  the  most  part  translations  from  the  Coptic  of 
miracles  that  were  worked  by  the  Virgin  in  Greece, 
Italy,  Rum  (Byzantium),  France,  etc.,  and  are  evi- 
dently derived  from  works  like  the  Legenda  Aurea  of 
Jacobo  di  Voragine.  (Translations  of  all  of  them  by  me 
will  be  given  in  a  forthcoming  volume.)  In  the  XVth 
century  there  came  into  common  use  the  service-book 
called  'Arganona  Dengel,  i.e.  the  "  Virgin's  Organ," 
or  the  "  Virgin's  Lyre."  It  was  composed  by  'Abba 
George  in  the  first  half  of  the  century,  and  was  quickly 
adopted  as  a  companion  to  the  Weddase  Maryam.  It  is 
highly  prized  for  the  purity  of  its  language,  and  for  the 
variety  and  beauty  of  its  metaphors,  and  the  consum- 
mate knowledge  of  the  Scriptures  displayed  therein. 
A  translation  of  a  few  pages  of  it  will  be  found  on 
pp.  297  of  this  volume. 

The  worship  of  the  Virgin  increased  greatly  in  the 
XVIth  century,  probably  as  a  result  of  the  influence  of 
the  Church  in  Jerusalem  and  in  Alexandria.  These 
cities  voiced  the  great,  profound  and  widespread  in- 
terest in  Mary  and  her  mother  Hanna  that  sprang  up 
in  the  East  as  a  result  of  the  Crusades,  and  the  eager 
desire  of  the  nations  to  know  all  that  history,  legend 
and  tradition  could  tell  them  about  these  saints.  Cara- 
vans left  Ethiopia  for  Egypt  and  Jerusalem  at  regular 
intervals,  and  the  merchants  who  conducted  them 
brought  tidings  of  the  happenings  there,  and  pictures 
of  saints  and  the  Virgin  painted  from  Byzantine  origi- 

xlvi 


Worship  of  the  Vh^gin  Mary  in  Rthiopia 

nals  in  Cairo,  Jerusalem  and  Constantinople.  Copies  of 
the  Apocryphal  Gospels  and  legends  of  all  kinds  were 
multiplied    freely,    and   the   imaginations   of    devout 
scribes  filled  the  lacunae  which  accident  or  wilful  muti- 
lation had  made  in  the  manuscripts  from  which  they 
worked.    In  the  XVIIth  century  the  Ethiopians  de- 
manded from  their  teachers  always  more  and  more 
miracles,  and,  as  though  the  words  of  the  text  were  not 
sufficiently  vivid  or  descriptive, they  insisted  on  coloured 
illustrations  being  added.    Kings  and  queens  commis- 
sioned scribes  and  artists  to  produce  large  handsome 
manuscripts  ;    as  specimens  of  these  we  may  mention 
Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  644,  which  was  written  for 
Hamalmala  Wark,  the  mother  of  King  Susenyos  (a.d. 
1607-1632),  and  contains  154  miracles,  and  Brit.  Mus. 
MS.  Orient.  No.  640,  written  for  King  Theophilus 
(a.d.  i7o8-i7ii),whichcontains  154  miracles  and  many 
pictures.   Copies  of  pictures  that  illustrated  the  mira- 
cles were  frequently  painted  on  large  skins  and  hung  on 
the  walls  of  the  churches.   As  at  this  time  there  were 
hundreds  of  churches  in  Ethiopia  sacred  artists  were 
always  busily  employed,  and  probably  well  remunerated. 
The  festivals  of  the  Virgin  Mary  were  numerous.  A 
general  festival  was  celebrated  on  the  21st  day  of  each 
month.   Her  birth  was  celebrated  on  the  loth  of  Mas- 
karram  (Sept.  7)  and  the  ist  of  Genbot  (May  i)  ;   her 
entry  into  the  Temple  on  the  3rd  of  Takhshash  (Nov. 
29)  ;   her  conception  on  the  i6th  of  Takhshash  (Dec. 
11)  ;   the  dedication  of  her  temple  on  the  8th  of  Sene 
(June  2)  ;  her  death  on  the  21st  of  Ter  (Jan.  16)  ;  her 
ascension  on  the  i6th  of  Nahasse  (Aug.  9)  ;    the  em- 
balmment of  her  body  for  burial  on  the  1 5th  of  Nahasse 
(Aug.  8)  ;    and  there  were  other  festivals  held  in  her 
honour  locally.   Some  authorities  state  that  thirty-two 
festivals  of  the  Virgin  were  celebrated  throughout  the 
year.i    On  these  festivals  the  History  of  the  Life  of 

1  Ludolf,  Historia  /Ethiopica,  Commentarius,  p.  361  (Not.  XLV). 

xlvii 


L,ege?ids  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Mary  was  read,  and  the  clergy  found  it  necessary  to 
provide  large  manuscripts  from  which  the  priests  might 
read  to  their  congregations.  A  complete  Lectionary  of 
this  kind  was  in  reality  a  Corpus  of  all  the  Mary- 
Literature,  and  a  very  good  example  of  such  a  work  is 
Erit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  state  exactly  what  were  the 
views  that  the  Ethiopians  held  about  the  Virgin  Mary, 
but  a  perusal  of  the  Books  of  Praise  of  the  Virgin  sug- 
gests that  they  were  not  all  authorized  by  the  Church, 
^he  "  Mother  of  God  "  and  the  "  Queen  of  Heaven  " 
and  the  "  Chieftainess  of  all  the  Saints,"  as  she  was 
called  by  her  worshippers,  was  in  reality  considered  by 
them  to  be  a  goddess,  or  at  all  events  a  being  far  superior 
to  any  woman,  both  materially  and  spiritually J^-In  their 
heart  of  hearts  large  numbers  of  them  believed  that 
Mary  and  Christ  were  formed  of  a  substance  different 
from  that  of  other  men,  and  this  heresy  seems  never  to 
have  been  stamped  out  entirely.  The  perpetual  vir- 
ginity of  Mary  was  to  them  a  sure  proof  of  her  divine 
origin.  They  made  her  to  share  divinity  with  Christ, 
and  in  some  praises  of  her  of  an  extravagant  character 
she  is  grouped  with  the  Persons  of  the  Trinity  as  an 
equal.  In  later  times  even  her  mother  Hanna  was  re- 
garded as  semi-divine.  They  ascribed  to  Mary  bound- 
less power  in  heaven  and  upon  earth,  and  if  in  further- 
ance of  her  benevolent  designs  she  asked  her  Son  for 
help  which  was  not  given,  they  made  her  appeal  to  God 
Almighty  Himself,  Who  at  once  granted  her  petitions. 
Her  influence  over  the  Father  and  the  Son  was,  in  their 
opinion,  so  great  that  they  thought  and  believed  she 
was,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  the  controller  of  the 
destiny  of  human  souls  in  the  Day  of  Judgement.  Many 
of  their  services  consisted  of  nothing  but  prayers  to  God 
the  Father  and  prayers  to  the  Virgin,  and  the  number 
of  manuscripts  of  the  Weddase  Maryam  and  the  Maz- 
mura  Dengel  (Virgin's  Psalter),   and  the  'Arganona 

xlviii 


Worship  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Ethiopia 

Dengel  (Virgin's  Lyre)  which  have  come  down  to  us 
prove  the  universaHty  and  supremeness  of  her  worship 
in  Ethiopia.  But  the  Ethiopians  never  lost  sight  of  the 
humanity  of  Mary  in  their  devotions,  and  they  ap- 
pealed to  her  as  the  great  and  tender-hearted  woman  of 
sorrows  and  the  loving  mother,  especially  in  all  affairs 
of  daily  life.  She  was  to  them  all-knowing,  all-wise  and 
all-understanding,  as  far  as  the  weaknesses  and  sins  of 
men  and  women  were  concerned,  and  they  went  to  her 
shrines  in  simple  faith,  told  their  troubles  to  the  pic- 
tures of  her,  and  trusted  to  her  all-embracing  sympathy 
and  pity  to  relieve  their  troubles  and  remove  their 
afflictions.  In  their  pictures  they  represent  her  as  one 
of  themselves,  with  thick,  black,  woolly  hair,  and  eyes 
with  jet-black  pupils  and  large  whites,  and  with  the 
large  breasts  that  are  the  joy  of  all  mothers  in  Ethiopia 
and  the  Sudan.  They  are  never  tired  of  extolling  her 
physical  beauty,  and  some  of  their  addresses  to  her  mere 
resemble  the  rhapsodies  of  a  lover  than  the  devout  glori- 
fying of  the  Mother  of  God. 


A  xlix 


Introduction 


III.  THE  CULT  OF  ISIS  AND  THE  WORSHIP 
OF  THE  VIRGIN  MARY  COMPARED 

IT  has  been  well  said  that  the  Egyptians  were  better 
prepared  to  receive  and  accept  Christianity  than 
any  of  the  nations  round  about  them.  For  thousands 
of  years  before  St.  Mark  came  to  Alexandria  to  preach 
the  Gospel  of  his  Master  Christ,  the  Egyptians  believed 
in  Osiris  the  Man-god  who  raised  himself  from  the 
dead.  He  was  held  to  possess  the  power  of  bestowing 
immortality  on  his  followers  because  he  had  triumphed 
over  Death,  and  had  vanquished  the  Powers  of  Dark- 
ness. He  was  the  Judge  of  souls  and  the  supreme  lord 
of  the  Judgement  of  the  Dead  ;  he  was  all-wise,  all- 
knowing,  all-just,  and  his  decrees  were  final  and  abso- 
lute. No  man  could  hope  to  dwell  with  him  in  his  king- 
dom unless  he  had  lived  a  life  of  moral  excellence  upon 
earth,  and  the  only  passports  to  his  favour  were  truth- 
speaking,  honest  intent,  and  the  observance  of  the  com- 
mands of  the  Law  (Maat),  coupled  with  charity,  alms- 
giving and  humane  actions.  It  is  very  probable  that  in 
the  earliest  form  of  the  cult  of  Osiris  the  fulfilment  of 
the  Law  was  all  that  the  god  demanded  from  his  fol- 
lowers, but  in  later  times,  and  especially  under  the  New 
Empire,  when  men  had  learned  to  make  personal 
prayers  to  him,  he  certainly  required  from  them  the 
strict  observance  of  the  spirit  as  well  as  the  letter  of  the 
Law.  In  the  Vignettes  of  Chap.  CXXV  of  the  Book  of 
the  Dead  we  see  him  sitting  in  his  shrine  as  supreme 
Judge,  whilst  the  weighing  of  the  heart  of  the  dead  man 
is  carried  out  under  the  supervision  of  Thoth,  the  great 
Advocate,  in  the  presence  of  a  jury  of  gods  and  god- 

1 


Cults  of  Isis  and  Mary  Compared 

desses.  With  him  in  his  shrine-4s^he^je4de&s~M&,-an4- 
her  divine  sist£iJMephthys,  and  her  son  Horus  is  leading 
the  truth-speaking  deceased  to  the  foot  of  the  steps  of 
the^throne  of  the  Great  God.<;;^lthough  it  was  Thoth 
who  spake  the  words  that  caused  Creation  to  be,  and 
who  secured  the  acquittal  of  Osiris  at  the  Great  Judge- 
ment when  Set,  the  Arch-Liar,  was  vanquished,  yet  it  is 
not  he  who  leads  the  deceased  before  Osiris,  but 
"  Horus,  the  son  of  Isis.'>^  Horus  reports  that  Thoth 
has  found  the  deceased  innocent,  and  recommends  that 
the  reward  which  is  usually  bestowed  on  the  Follower 
of  Horus  be  granted  to  him.  It  is  impossible  not  to 
think  that  Horus,  the  son  of  Isis,  had  some  special  in- 
fluence with  Osiris,  and  that  he  possessed  this  influence 
because  he  was  the  son  of  Isis,  who  is  always  present  in 
the  shrine  of  Osiris  when  hearts  are  being  weighed  in 
the  Great  Balance.  There  were  many  goddesses  in 
Egypt,  but  none  save  Isis,  together  with  her  shadowy 
dual  counterpart,  appears  with  Osiris  in  his  shrine  at  the 
Judgement.  It  is  clear  that  the  Egyptians  attributed  to 
her  powers  and  qualities  which  no  other  goddess  pos- 
sessed, and  what  some  of  these  were  we  may  learn  from 
the  religious  texts  of  all  periods. 

Nothing  is  known  about  the  cult  of  Isis  in  the  early 
Neolithic  Period  in  Egypt,  but  when  the  first  king  of 
all  Egypt  reigned,  her  position  as  the  chief  goddess  in 
the  land  was  generally  recognized.  During  the  Archaic 
Period  she  was  regarded  as  the  female  counterpart  of 
Osiris,  and  her  forms,  characteristics  and  powers 
changed  as  those  of  Osiris  changed,  but  towards  the 
close  of  the  Dynastic  Period  she  became  the  chief  deity 
of  all  Egypt,  and,  in  late  times,  her  worship  wholly 
eclipsed  that  of  her  male  counterpart  Osiris.  Under  the 
Ancient  Empire  Osiris  and  Isis  and  Set  and  Nephthys 
were  regarded  as  the  deified  members  of  a  human 
family,  and  Isis  was  the  most  powerful  of  them.  Under 
the  Middle  Empire  the  cult  of  Osiris  and  Isis  at  Abydos 

li 


Lege?icis  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

and  in  the  Delta  increased  greatly,  and  they  became  the 
ancestor  and  ancestress  of  every  Egyptian.  The  spread 
of  their  cult  was  largely  caused  by  the  annual  perform- 
ance of  the  great  Miracle  Play  at  Abydos,  in  which  the 
principal  events  in  the  life,  death,  funeral  ceremonies, 
and  resurrection  of  Osiris  were  represented.  The  Play 
was  based  on  Legends  which  had  been  current  in  Egypt 
for  untold  centuries,  and  in  it  Isis  was  shown  to  be  the 
faithful  and  loving  wife,  who  brought  away  her  hus- 
band's body  from  the  battle-field,  and  saved  it  from 
falling  into  the  hands  of  Set,  the  Arch-Enemy  of  Osiris, 
and  the  personification  of  Evil.Xln  all  these  Legends 
great  magical  powers  were  attributed  to  her,  for  Thoth, 
the  heart  and  intelligence  of  the  God,  had  taught  her 
the  spells,  incantations,  magical  names  and  words  of 
power  which  he  had  employed  in  making  the  wishes  of 
this  God  to  take  concrete  form,  and  he  had  also  taught 
her  how  to  use  them.  By  means  of  them  Isis  drew  seed 
into  herself  from  Osiris  after  his  death,  and  conceived 
Horus,  "the  son  of  Isis "  mentioned  above.  By  these 
spells  she,  assisted  by  her  son  Horus  and  by  Anubis,  the 
divine  physician,  reconstituted  and  revivified  the  body 
of  Osiris,  and  thus  she  created  her  son  Horus,  and  re- 
created Osiris.  She  became  the  personification  of  the 
great  feminine  creative  power  which  conceived  and 
brought  forth  every  living  creature  and  thing  ;  what 
she  brought  forth  she  protected,  and  fed  and  nourished. 
Of  the  many  Legends  of  Isis  that  existed  there  was 
none  that  appealed  more  to  the  imagination  of  the 
Egyptians  of  all  periods  than  that  which  described  her 
persecution  by  Set,  and  her  flight  to  the  Delta  to  hide 
from  him.  Set  tried  to  seize  the  kingdom  of  Osiris  and 
take  possession  of  his  wife  Isis,  who  was  then  with  child, 
as  the  result  of  her  union  with  Osiris  after  his  death. 
She  escaped  with  difficulty  from  the  place  where  he  had 
shut  her  up  and,  accompanied  by  the  Seven  Scorpion- 
goddesses,  fled  to  Per-sui  near  the  Papyrus  Swamps.  She 

Hi 


Cults  of  I  sis  and  Mary  Compared 

applied  for  a  night's  lodging  to  a  rich  woman  at  Teb, 
who  drove  her  from  her  door.  Tefen,  one  of  the  seven 
goddesses,  enraged  at  this,  got  under  the  door,  stung  a 
child  to  death,  and  set  the  house  on  fire.  Isis  restored 
the  child  to  life  and  extinguished  the  fire.  At  the  invi- 
tation of  a  peasant  woman  she  went  to  her  house  and 
stayed  there.  Soon  afterwards  she  brought  forth  Horus 
on  a  bed  of  papyrus-plants  in  the  Swamps,  and  she  hid 
him  carefully,  so  that  Set  might  not  find  him.  But  dur- 
ing her  absence  in  the  city  of  Am,  where  she  had  gone 
to  buy  food.  Set,  in  the  form  of  a  scorpion,  found  the 
child  and  stung  him,  and  when  Isis  returned  she  found 
him  lying  dead.  When  her  first  burst  of  grief  was  over 
she  cried  out  to  Ra,  the  Sun-god,  who  stopped  his  Boat 
and  sent  Thoth  down  to  earth  to  help  her.  Thoth 
taught  her  certain  words  of  power  and  how  to  use  them, 
and  as  soon  as  she  uttered  them  over  Horus,  the  child 
was  restored  to  life.  Thoth  ascended  into  the  sky  and 
took  his  place  in  the  Boat,  and  the  Sun-god  resiTmed  his 
journey.^ 

Another  ancient  Legend  of  Isis  described  how  she 
obtained  the  knowledge  of  the  most  secret  name  of  Ra, 
the  Sun-god.  She  made  a  model  of  a  most  deadly  viper, 
endowed  it  with  life  and  filled  it  with  venom,  and  set  it 
by  the  path  of  Ra  in  the  heavens  with  instructions  to 
attack  the  god  as  he  passed  by.  This  the  serpent  did, 
and  Ra  became  sick  unto  death.  Then  Isis  went  to  him 
and  offered  to  drive  the  poison  out  of  him  if  he  would 
tell  her  his  secret  name,  the  name  whereby  he  main- 
tained his  existence  in  the  sky.  At  first  Ra  refused,  but 
when  he  felt  that  his  collapse  and  death  were  immi- 
nent, he  revealed  his  name  to  Isis,  who  recited  the  words 
which  expelled  the  poison  from  the  body  of  the  god, 

^  I  quote  from  the  text  found  on  the  great  Metternich  Stele,  which 
was  discovered  in  Alexandria  in  1828.  Text  and  translation  were  pub- 
lished bv  Golenischeff,  Die  Metternichstele,  Leipzig,  1877.  A  handy 
English  rendering  will  be  found  in  my  Legends  of  the  Gods,  p.  142  ff . 

liii 


Legends  of  the  Vi7gi7t  Ma?y 

and  restored  him  to  health  and  strength.^  The  great 
Codices  of  the  Book  of  the  Dead  written  under  the 
XVIIIth  dynasty  prove  that  the  blood  of  Isis  was  be- 
lieved to  possess  great  magical  protective  powers,  and 
models  of  the  internal  organs  of  the  goddess  which  pro- 
duced this  blood  were  buried  with  the  dead  to  preserve 
them  from  harm.  The  great  amulet  of  Isis,  called 
"  Tet,"  was  made  of  blood-coloured  or  red  stone,  or  red 
glass  paste,  and  was  worn  by  the  living,  and  laid  on  the 
bodies  of  the  dead  ;  and  on  many  cofhns  the  right 
hand  of  the  deceased  is  seen  to  be  clasping  the  Tet. 
The  rubric  of  Chap.  CLVI  of  the  Book  of  the  Dead 
orders  that  it  be  steeped  in  water  and  placed  on 
the  neck  of  the  deceased,  and  it  is  probable  that  this 
water,  which  was  supposed  to  possess  the  same  power  as 
the  blood  of  Isis,  was  used  for  ceremonial  sprinklings  of 
the  dead. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  XlXth  dynasty  the  cult  of 
Isis  in  her  character  of  faithful  and  loving  wife  and 
tender  mother  increased  greatly.  One  of  the  best  proofs 
of  the  growth  of  this  phase  of  her  cult  is  afforded  by 
the  numerous  small  figures  of  the  goddess  that  are 
found  in  the  tombs  of  this  period,  and  apparently  not 
earlier.  Usually  the  figures  are  made  of  bronze,  and  the 
goddess  is  represented  seated  on  a  throne,  the  symbol  of 
her  name,  and  suckling  her  son  Horus,  whom  she  clasps 
to  her  left  breast.  As  time  went  on  they  were  made  of 
different  kinds  of  valuable  stones  and  gilded.  A  fine  ex- 
ample in  hard  stone  is  that  which  was  dedicated  to 
Panub,  the  son  of  Nekht,  who  flourished  in  the  reign  of 
Psammetichus  I  ;  see  5th  Egyptian  Room  in  the  British 
Museum,  No.  23050.  Another  example  (No.  35089)  is 
made  of  lapis-lazuli,  and  is  a  fine  piece  of  work.  On  the 
side  of  the  throne  is  cut  the  symbol  of  "  life,"  and  on 
the  back  is  the  same  symbol  with  the  symbol  of 
"  strength  "  or  "  power  "  on  each  side  of  it.   It  is  im- 

^  See  my  Legends  oj  the  Gods,  p.  142. 

liv 


Cults  of  I  sis  and  Mary  Compared 

portant  to  note  that  the  throne  of  Osiris  is  a  funerary- 
coffer,  which  contained  dead  things,  but  the  throne  of 
Isis  is  the  seat  of  Life.  Figures  of  this  kind  were  dedi- 
cated to  the  goddess  by  parents  who  desired  offspring. 
In  connection  with  this  may  be  recalled  the  fact  that 
the  statue  of  Isis  of  Philas  was  solemnly  taken  by  the 
Blemmyes  year  by  year  from  Philae  to  various  towns  in 
Nubia  in  order  that  the  women  might  make  petitions 
to  her  for  offspring.  The  Romans  in  their  treaty  with 
the  Blemmyes  agreed  to  allow  this  to  be  done,  and  the 
Blemmyes  visited  Philae  and  observed  their  ancient  cus- 
toms in  respect  of  Isis  for  at  least  fifty  years  after  the 
famous  Edict  of  Theodosius  I.^  What  form  the  figure 
of  Isis,  the  mother  of  the  god,  took  at  Philae  is  unknown, 
but  it  must  have  been  one  that  satisfied  the  eminently 
realistic  folk  of  the  Egyptian  Sudan. 

The  position  that  Isis  occupied  among  the  goddesses 
of  Egypt  was  unique,  for  none  but  she  is  ever  repre- 
sented as  a  mother  suckling  her  child,  and  none  of  them 
conceived  a  son  under  such  circumstances,  or  reconsti- 
tuted her  husband,  or  restored  her  son  to  life.  From 
the  long  list  of  titles  which  the  Egyptians^  gave  her 
come  the  following  : — Lady  of  Many  Names,  Great 
Lady  from  Primeval  time.  Divine  Lady,  Only  One, 
Greatest  of  gods  and  goddesses,  Queen  of  the  gods. 
Prototype  of  all  beings.  Queen  of  goddesses  and  women, 
Queen  of  the  Dekan  stars,  Maker  of  the  sunrise.  Lady 
of  heaven.  Holy  one  of  heaven,  Queen  of  the  earth, 
Queen  of  the  South  and  North,  The  fire-producer, 
Great  goddess  of  the  Other  World,  Mother  of  Horus, 
Mother  of  the  God,  Lady  of  the  Birth  Chamber,  Lady 
of  Life,  Bestower  of  Life,  Giver  of  gifts  to  gods  and 
spirits.  Lady  of  bread  and  beer.  Lady  of  abundance, 
Lady  of  joy  and  gladness,  Lady  of  love,  Lady  of  beauty, 
The  Beauty  of  Thebes,  The  Majesty  of  Heliopolis,  The 


^  Revillout,  Memoir e  surles  Blemmyes,  Paris,  1864,  p.  45. 
2  See  Brugsch,  Thesaurus,  pp.  102,  217-219. 


Iv 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Beneficent  one  in  Memphis,  Lady  of  spells,  words  of 
power  and  incantations.  Daughter  of  Keb  and  Nut  (i.e. 
Heaven  and  Earth),  Daughter  of  Neb-cr-tcher  (i.e. God 
Almighty),  Lady  of  weaving  and  fulling,  She  whose  son 
is  Lord  of  the  Earth  and  whose  husband  is  Lord  of  the 
Deep,  Lady  of  the  Nile-flood,  etc.  Her  spirit  caused 
the  star  Sept,  or  Sothis,  the  Dog-Star,  to  rise  annually 
to  warn  the  Egyptians  of  the  coming  of  the  Inundation 
of  the  Nile,  and  it  was  believed  that  the  Nile  Flood  it- 
self was  the  result  of  the  tear-drop  which  Isis  let  fall 
into  the  Nile  each  summer. 

Like  Oiiris,  Isis  had  many  shrines  in  Egypt,  and  she 
united  in  her  own  person  the  powers,  qualities  and 
attributes  of  all  the  great  goddesses  and  of  all  the  small 
local  female  deities  throughout  the  land.  Her  names 
were  many  and  in  each  great  city  she  had  a  special 
name.  Thus  she  was  called  Userit  in  Philse,  Aait  and 
Menhit  in  Heliopolis,  Menkhit  and  Renpit  in  Memphis, 
Septit  in  Abydos,  Seshetait  in  Hermopolis,  Anit  in 
Denderah.  She  was  the  Queen  of  heaven,  the  Queen 
of  all  the  goddesses  both  in  Egypt  and  the  Sudan,  the 
Mother  of  the  god,  and  the  Lady  of  all  women.  Most 
important  of  all  to  the  Egyptians,  Isis  was  Queen  of  the 
Other  World,  and  in  the  earliest  times  she  shared  the 
rule  and  authority  of  Osiris  as  "  Khenti-Amentt,"  or 
"  President  of  Amentt,"  as  the  Other  World  was  called. 
Though  only  Osiris  could  admit  souls  into  his  kingdom, 
it  was  Isis  who  directed  all  matters  connected  with  the 
maintenance  of  the  Spirit-bodies  who  succeeded  in 
reaching  that  region.  She^also  presided  over  the  re- 
birth of  the  righteous  in  Amentt,  and  their  existence 
was  bound  up  in  her.  As  time  went  on  men  began  to 
ascribe  to  her  powers  greater  than  those  of  Osiris,  and, 
thanks  to  the  action  of  the  priests  of  Memphis  in  the 
seventh  century  b.c,  her  votaries  exalted  her  to  the 
rank  of  Lady  of  all  the  Gods.  And  this  result  came 
about  in  this  manner.   The  chief  god  of  Memphis  was 

Ivi 


Cults  of  I  sis  and  Mary  Compared 

Ptah,  and  the  chief  sacred  animal  of  the  city  was  the 
Apis  Bull,  who  was  believed  to  be  the  "  renewed  life  of 
Ptah."  As  the  attributes  of  Apis  had  assumed  a  fune- 
rary character,  and  as  Osiris  was  called  the  "  Bull  of 
Amentt,"  the  priests  fused  the  two^  gods  into  one  great 
funerary  god  whom  they  called  "Asar-Hep,"  which  is 
the  original  of  the  Greek  name  "  Sarapis."  Now  Pto- 
lemy I  Soter  was  very  anxious  to  build  a  shrine  at  Alex- 
andria at  which  both  Egyptians  and  Greeks  could  wor- 
ship their  gods  of  the  dead.  He  wished  to  find  a  god 
vyho  could  represent  the  Egyptian  Osiris  Khenti- 
Amentt  and  the  Greek  Dis,  and  be  the  chief  god  of 
both  Amentt  and  Hades.  Ptolemy  found  his  shrine, 
but  had  some  difficulty  in  obtaining  a  suitable  statue 
for  it.  Finally  a  statue  of  Pluto,  a  god  of  Sinope,  em- 
barked of  its  own  accord  in  a  ship,  and  came  to  Alex- 
andria, and  Ptolemy  placed  it  in  the  Serapeum  which 
he  built  there.  When  the  Egyptians  at  Alexandria  were 
told  that  the  statue  represented  Pluto,  or  Hades,  they 
were  content  to  call  that  god  Asar-Hep,  or  Sarapis.  But 
when  it  became  known  in  the  country  generally  that 
Osiris  was  identified  with  Pluto,  his  power  and  influence 
declined  rapidly,  for  the  Death-god  could  not  be  a 
"  Giver  of  Life  "  nor  a  god  "  who  made  men  and 
women  to  be  born  a  second  time."  In  the  final  state  of 
the  cult  of  Osiris  and  Isis  the  god  was  the  symbol  of 
Death  and  the  goddess  the  symbol  of  Life  and  the  per- 
sonification of  Life  in  this  world  and  the  next. 

As  soon  as  the  Greeks  obtained  power  over  Egypt,  the 
worship  of  Isis  spread  among  the  Islands  of  the  Medi- 
terranean,  e.g.  Cyprus,  Khodes,"Samos,  Chio^,Xesbos7 
D^^s,  Crete,  etc.  The  bas-reliefs,  coins  and  other  anti- 
quities found  in  Thessaly,  Epirus,  Megara,  Corinth, 
Argos  and  other  places  prove  that  Isis  and  Osiris,  and 
their  son  Horus  the  child  (Harpocrates),  and  Nephthys 
and  Anubis  were  worshipped  in  many  Grecian  cities 
some  four  or  five  centuries  before  the  Christian  Era.  In 

Ivii 


Legends  of  the  Virgifi  Mary 

the  first  century  b.c.  Isis  was  regarded  as  one  of  the 
principal  goddesses  of  Rome,  and  many  temples  were 
built  in  her  honour,  and  orders  of  priestesses  were  en- 
dowed to  perform  her  "  mysteries."  From  Rome  her 
cult  spread  to  the  provinces,  and  it  passed  by  way  of 
Marseilles  to  Carthage  and  the  countries  of  North 
Africa.  The  rapidity  with  which  the  cult  of  Isis  and 
Osiris  spread  proves  that  it  offered  to  peoples  of  many 
climes  and  tongues  a  form  of  worship  of  God  which 
satisfied  their  needs.  Being  of  Egyptian  origin  it  was 
mysterious,  as  well  as  ancient,  and  this  added  to  its 
natural  attraction  for  foreigners.  The  ceremonies  con- 
nected with  the  worship  of  Isis  impressed  all  beholders, 
and  the  acting  of  the  miracle-play  itself  roused  ideas 
and  beliefs  of  an  unusual  character  in  their  minds.  The 
resurrection  of  Osiris  taught  them  to  believe  in  the 
resurrection  of  the  dead,  the  conception  and  birth  of 
Horus  preached  the  doctrine  of  life  arising  out  of  death, 
the  triumph  of  Horus  over  Set  symbolized  the  ultimate 
victory  of  good  over  evil,  and  the  sorrows  of  Isis  and  her 
tender  mother-love  touched  all  hearts.  The  old  crude 
and  semi-savage  ideas  that  centred  in  Isis  in  early  dy- 
nastic times  were  forgotten,  and  purer,  more  refined 
sublimated  conceptions  of  the  divine  woman,  the 
Queen  of  heaven,  took  their  place.  She  became  the 
personifica^tion  of  all  that  was  good  in  goddesses  and  in 
women.  <^he  best  description  of  her  is  perhaps  that 
which  she  gives  of  herself  to  Lucius  in  the  "  Golden 
Ass  "  of  Apuleius  of  Madaura.  In  answer  to  his  prayer 
she  says : — "  Lo,  Lucius,  I  am  come.  ...  I,  nature's 
mother,  mistress  of  all  the  elements,  the  first-begotten 
of  all  the  ages,  of  deities  mightiest,  queen  of  the  dead, 
first  of  heaven's  denizens,  in  whose  aspect  are  blent  the 
aspects  of  all  gods  and  goddesses.  With  my  rod  I  rule 
the  shining  heights  of  heaven,  the  health-giving  breezes 
of  the  sea,  the  mournful  silence  of  the  Underworld. 
The  whole  earth  worships  my  godhead,  one  and  indi- 

Iviii 


Cults  of  Isis  a7ia  Mary  Compared 

vidual,  under  many  a  changing  shape,  with  varied  rites, 
and  by  many  diverse  names.  There  the  Phrygians,  first- 
born of  men,  call  me  the  mother  of  the  gods  that  dwell 
at  Pessinus ;  there  the  Athenians,  sprung  from  the  soil 
they  till,  know  me  as  Cecropian  Minerva  ;  there  the 
wave-beaten  Cyprians  style  me  Venus  of  Paphos  ;  the 
archer  Cretans,  Diana  of  the  hunter's  net;  the  Sicilians, 
with  their  threefold  speech,  Stygian  Proserpine  ;  the 
Eleusinians,  the  ancient  goddess  Ceres.  Others  call  me 
Juno,  others  Bellona,  others  Hecate,  others  the  Rham- 
nusian,  but  those  on  whom  shine  the  first  rays  of  the 
Sun-god  as  each  day  he  springs  to  new  birth,  the  Arii 
and  the  Ethiopians,  and  the  Egyptians,  mighty  in  an- 
cient lore,  honour  me  with  my  peculiar  rites,  and  call 
me  by  my  true  name  Isis  the  Queen. "^^ 

It  has  often  been  said  and  written  "that  the  cult  of 
Isis  and  Horus  and  the  worship  of  Mary  the  Virgin  and 
the  Child  are  one  and  the 'same  thing,  but  the  above 
summary  of  facts,  which  are  derived  from  Egyptian  re- 
ligious texts,  has  been  prepared  to  show  that  such  is  not 
the  case.  The  original  Isis  was  an  African  goddess  who 
appeared  in  human  form,  and  married  the  god-man 
Osiris,  and  conceived  a  son  begotten  by  him  after  he 
had  been  murdered.  Mary  was  a  woman,  the  daughter 
of  well-known  parents,  and  although  the  circumstances 
that  attended  her  conception  were  so  unusual  as  to  be 
miraculous,  she  was  not  divine.  Mary  became  with 
child  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  when  she  had  given  birth 
to  the  Son  of  God  she  remained  a  virgin.  The  wander- 
ings of  Mary  during  her  flight  from  Herod's  wrath  re- 
call the  wanderings  of  Isis,  especially  as  both  Isis  and 
Mary  raised  the  dead  and  worked  other  miracles.  Horus 
was  killed  by  a  scorpion,  and  was  raised  up  again  through 
the  spells  of  Thoth,  but  Jesus  did  not  die  until  He  was 
crucified.  Osiris,  more  than  Horus,  resembles  Jesus  in 
respect  of  His  murder  by  the  Jews.  Isis  bewailed  Osiris 
1  Apuleius,  Metamorphoses,  XI,  5  (Butler's  translation). 

Ik 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

in  the  shrines  of  Egypt,  as  Mary  bewailed  her  Son  at 
Golgotha.  The  seven  scorpion-goddesses  who  attended 
Isis  seem  to  have  their  counterpart  in  the  seven  maidens 
who  were  associated  with  Mary  in  weaving  the  Veil  of 
the  Temple.  Osiris  was  raised  from  the  dead  by  the 
spells  of  Isis,  which  she  had  learned  from  Thoth,  but 
Jesus  raised  Himself  from  the  dead.  Again,  Osiris  had 
to  do  battle  with  the  powers  of  the  Underworld  in 
order  to  maintain  his  life  and  position  therein  ;  but 
Jesus  shattered  the  bolts  of  the  gates  of  hell,  and  tore 
down  the  doors,  and  vanquished  Death  and  his  six  sons 
and  Satan,  and  extinguished  the  fiery  cauldrons,  in 
order  to  save  Adam  and  his  posterity  and  take  them  out 
of  hell.  Isis  appears  in  the  Judgement  Hall  of  Osiris, 
presumably  as  co-judge  with  Osiris,  but  Mary  only 
watches  the  Judgement  of  the  Dead  so  that  she  may  in 
certain  cases  entreat  Christ  and  the  Father  to  show 
mercy.  In  one  particular  Isis  and  Mary  the  Virgin  have 
a  common  fate  ;  the  grave  of  each  is  unknown. 


ix 


Introduction 


IV.   ETHIOPIC  LITERATURE  OF  THE 
VIRGIN  MARY 

WHEN  the  British  Army  occupied  Makdala  in 
1867,  and,  after  the  suicide  of  King  Theodore, 
began  to  examine  the  contents  of  the  outlying  build- 
ings in  which  the  royal  property  was  stored,  they  found 
heaped  up  in  a  shed  a  huge  mass  of  vellum  and  paper 
manuscripts  of  all  sizes.  They  were  over  a  thousand  in 
number, 1  and  were  covered  with  dust,  and  many  of 
them  had  suffered  greatly  from  damp,  which  had  caused 
the  leaves  to  stick  together.  The  greater  number  of 
them  were  stolen  by  Theodore  from  the  libraries  and 
churches  in  various  parts  of  the  country  of  Abyssinia 
(or  Ethioqia),  and  from  private  owners  of  books,  and  he 
intended  them  to  form  the  Library  of  the  Church  of 
Madhane  'Alam,  i.e.  the  "  Saviour  of  the  World," 
which  he  proposed  to  build  at  Makdala.  No  one  had 
charge  of  the  heap  of  manuscripts,  and  once  having  got 
them  into  his  possession  the  king  seems  to  have  taken  no 
further  trouble  about  them.  The  British  Army  took 
possession  of  them  as  a  matter  of  course,  and  took  them 
away  when  they  returned  to  the  coast.  On  their  way 
thither  General  Napier  gave  many  of  the  copies  of  the 
Old  and  New  Testaments  and  Service-Books  to  the 
archimandrites  and  priests  who  prayed  to  have  their 
property  restored  to  them,  and  in  this  way  more  than 
one  half  of  the  entire  collection  was  disposed  of.  When 
the  rest  of  the  Makdala  Collection  reached  London  in 

1  See  Markham,  A  History  oj  the  Abyssinian  Expedition,  London, 
1869,  p.  357  ;  Blanc,  A  Narrative  of  Captivity  in  Abyssinia,  London, 
1868,  p.  210. 

Ixi 


Legends  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

1868  the  Secretary  of  State  for  India  handed  them  over 
to  the  Trustees  of  the  British  Museum.  But,  strange  to 
say,  whilst  General  Napier  was  doing  his  utmost  to  keep 
the  manuscripts  in  the  country,  many  of  the  inferior 
clergy  were  selling  their  books  to  British  officers  and 
privateers,  who  brought  them  to  England  where,  scat- 
tered throughout  the  land,  some  hundreds  of  them  now 
are.  The  portion  of  the  Makdala  Collection  that  came 
to  the  British  Museum  consisted  of  about  three  hun- 
dred and  fifty  manuscripts,  and  about  one-seventh  of 
this  number  contains  texts  concerning  the  Virgin  Mary 
or  her  miracles,  or  homilies  upon  events  in  her  life,  or 
prayers  or  sermons  that  were  written  for  her  festivals. 
A  very  considerable  number  of  the  one  hundred  and 
seventeen  Ethiopic  MSB.  that  were  purchased  by  the 
Trustees  for  the  British  Museum  from  travellers  or  pre- 
sented to  them  by  the  Church  Missionary  Society  prior 
to  1 867  also  contain  Texts  concerning  the  Virgin  Mary. 
The  Ethiopic  Literature  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  the 
British  Museum  may  be  summarized  thus^  : — 

1.  The  History  of  the  Conception  and  Birth  of  the 
Blessed  Virgin  which  was  read  on  the  ist  day  of  the 
month  Genbot,  and  on  the  21st  day  of  the  month 
Sane  (Orient.  604,  No.  10,  and  606,  No.  9).  2.  An 
anonymous  Discourse  on  the  Birth  of  the  Virgin  in  a 
manuscript  of  the  XVth  century  (Orient.  692,  No.  4). 
3.  The  History  of  the  Birth  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  A 
Discourse  for  the  3rd  of  Tahsas  (Orient.  604,  No.  3, 
and  606,  No.  3).  4.  Discourse  on  her  Birth,  Marriage  to 
Joseph  and  her  visit  to  Elisabeth  (Orient.  692,  No.  2). 
5.  On  the  Annunciation  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  (Orient. 
604,  No.  8,  and  606,  No.  8).  6.  Dialogue  between  Mary 
and  the  angel  of  the  Annunciation.   (This  is  extant  in 

^  For  full  descriptions  of  the  MSS.  see  Dillmann,  Catalogus  Codi- 
cuni  Manuscriptoriim  Orientalitim  Musei  Britannia  (Codices  Aithiopici), 
Pars  III,  London,  1847  ;  Wright,  Catalogue  of  the  Ethiopic  MSS.  in 
the  British  Museum,  London,  1877. 

Ixii 


Ethiopic  Liiterattire  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

several  MSS.  (Orient.  650,  fol.  1 34a) ).  7.  Story  of  how 
Mary  concealed  herself  from  Herod  in  Mount  Leba- 
non, and  the  History  of  Gigar,  the  judge  in  Syria,  and 
Domitianus  (Orient.  604,  No.  15  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  14). 
8.  The  History  of  the  Death  of  Mary  as  narrated  on 
the  authority  of  St.  John.  It  is  called  'Astar'eyo,  and 
was  read  on  the  21st  day  of  the  month  Ter  (Orient. 
604,  No.  4  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  4).  9.  The  Book  of  the 
Death  of  Mary  in  a  manuscript  of  the  XVth  century 
(Orient.  692,  No.  7).  10.  History  of  the  Assumption  of 
the  Virgin  Mary  (Orient.  604,  No.  6  ;  Orient.  605, 
No.  2  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  6).  11.  Homily  on  the  As- 
sumption of  the  Virgin  (Orient.  641,  fol.  268a).  12. 
The  History  of  the  Covenant  which  Christ  made  with 
His  mother,  commonly  called  the  "  Covenant  of 
Mercy  "  (Orient.  604,  No.  7  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  7). 
13.  A  Discourse  on  the  building  of  Mary's  house 
(Orient.  604,  No.  11  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  10).  14.  Story 
of  the  discovery  of  the  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 
(Orient.  604,  No.  5  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  5).  15.  Dis- 
course by  St.  John  the  Evangelist  on  the  Virgin  Mary 
(Orient.  593,  No.  3  ;  Orient.  818,  fol.  i6ib).  16.  Dis- 
course by  John,  Metropolitan  of  Ethiopia,  on  the  Vir- 
gin Mary  (Orient.  616,  fol.  124b).  17.  Discourse  by 
Theophilus  of  Alexandria  on  the  Virgin  Mary  (Orient. 
604,  No.  I  ;  Orient.  606,  No.  i).  18.  Encomium  on  the 
Virgin  Mary  by  Cyriacus,  Bishop  of  Behnesa  (Orient. 
604,  No.  16;  Add.  16250,  foil.  335-365).  19.  Dis- 
course on  the  Virgin  Mary  by  Basil  of  C^sarea  (Orient. 
604,  No.  12  ;  Orient.  605,  fol.  150).  20.  Two  Dis- 
courses on  the  Virgin  Mary  (anonymous,  Orient.  593, 
Nos.  I  and  2).  21.  Prayers  of  the  Virgin  Mary  at  Gol- 
gotha (Add.  16233,  No.  5  ;  Orient.  565,  No.  i).  22. 
Prayers  of  the  Virgin  Mary  at  Bartos,  or  Berut  (Add. 
16245,  No.  6  ;  Orient.  564,  No.  4).  23.  The  Vision 
which  Mary  described  to  John  the  son  of  Zebedee 
(Orient.  605,  No.  2,  fol.  94a).   24.  Salutations  to  the 

Ixiii 


Legends  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

members  of  the  body  of  the  Virgin  Mary  (Add.  1622, 
foil.  43-52).  25.  Selections  of  the  Miracles  of  the 
Virgin  Mary  are  contained  in  a  great  many  manu- 
scripts, and  as  these  are  all  described  in  a  companion 
volume  to  this  nothing  need  be  said  about  them  here. 
26.  In  connection  with  this  group  of  manuscripts  refer- 
ence must  be  made  to  the  extraordinary  compilation 
contained  in  Add.  161 93,  which  Dillmann  describes  as, 
"  Liber  crassis  fabulis  refcrtus  est.''^  The  text  pretends 
to  be  a  narrative  of  the  period  of  three  years  and  six 
months  which  Mary,  and  the  Child,  and  Joseph  and 
Salome  passed  in  Ethiopia  as  the  guests  of  the  King  of 
Ethiopia.  It  further  describes  their  journey  from 
Ethiopia,  which  they  undertook  by  God's  command, 
through  the  desert  to  Palestine,  and  what  happened  to 
them  by  the  way.  Both  Mary  and  the  Child  worked 
many  miracles,  and  were  greatly  beloved  by  the  various 
peoples  with  whom  they  came  in  contact  and  to  whom 
they  did  much  good.  The  MS.  was  presented  to  the 
Trustees  of  the  British  Museum  by  the  Church  Mis- 
sionary Society  in  August,  1846,  and  consists  of  12 
quires,  each  containing  8  folios  measuring  8|  in.  by  6^ 
in.  Each  page  contains  two  columns  of  writing,  with 
24  lines  in  each.  The  handwriting  is  firm  and  bold,  and 
probably  dates  from  the  XVIIIth  century.  The  MS. 
has  neither  title  nor  colophon.  It  was  intended  to  be 
used  as  a  Service-book,  probably  in  connection  with  the 
Wepdase  Maryam,  or  Book  of  Prayers  to  the  Virgin 
Mary,  for  the  text  is  divided  into  seven  sections,  one 
of  which  was  to  be  read  daily,  beginning  with  Monday. 
The  following  brief  sketch  of  the  contents  of  the  manu- 
script will  enable  the  reader  to  judge  for  himself  about 
the  value  of  the  work. 

The  text  opens  with  the  statement  that  whilst  Mary 
was  fleeing  from  Herod,  the  Child  always  pronounced 
His  blessing  with  His  face  turned  towards  the  South 

1  Cat.  Codd.  JEthiopici,  p.  48. 

Ixiv 


Rthiopic  Ljiter attire  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

('Azeb).  By  this  act  He  indicated  that  He  wished  to  go 
to  the  South,  and  thither,  after  months  of  wandering, 
and  flight  from  city  to  city,  and  village  to  village,  and 
suffering  from  repeated  attacks  of  wild  beasts  and  still 
wilder  men,  Mary  directed  her  steps.  In  due  course  she 
arrived  in  Ethiopia,  which  the  text  describes  as  "  the 
most  glorious  country  under  heaven."  There  the  Holy 
Family  and  Salome  lived  in  great  peace  and  content  for 
3  years  and  6  months,  but  neither  the  king  'Akaryos 
(Fol.  3b)  nor  his  people  knew  that  Mary  was  a  virgin, 
or  that  the  Child  was  the  future  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
for  God  caused  these  things  to  be  hidden  from  him  and 
his  people.    At  length  God  told  Joseph  to  return  to 
Syria,  but  the  people  were  most  unwilling  to  let  them 
go.  On  their  way  northwards  the  Holy  Family  came  to 
Bet  Barbaysadas,  which  was  near  the  sea,  and  camped 
near  the  city  gate.  The  people  took  them  into  a  palace 
made  of  gold,  and  gave  them  bread,  wine,  honey,  sugar, 
milk,  etc.  Whilst  there  the  town  was  attacked  by  large 
numbers  of  mighty  men  and  soldiers,  and  Christ,Whose 
name  is  written  in  red  and  black  letters  alternately,  de- 
termined to  help  His  hosts.   On  His  demand  nineteen 
companies  of  angels  came  down  and  attacked  the  forces 
of  the  king  of  Persia  {sic)^  and  they  slew  so  many  of  the 
enemy  that  the  stream  of  blood  which  flowed  round  the 
horses'  legs  reached  their  bridles  (Fol.  4a).    Passing 
through  Gedaberya,  a  region  filled  with  cannibals,  (Fol. 
4b)  the  Holy  Family  came  to  a  city  which  had  for  some 
reason  been  laid  waste  and  was  deserted.  Here  the  Holy 
Family  stayed  for  one  month,  and  the  Virgin  Mary, 
with  the  Child's  consent,  raised  to  life,  presumably 
from  the  cemeteries,  900,000  men,  900,000  women,  and 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  old  men  and  children  (Fol. 
6a).   Then  they  passed  on  and  came  to  Kakiros,  which 
was  near  Persia  (j"zV),  and  at  this  place  the  text  refers  to 
the  miracles  which  Mary  performed  in  Arabia,  Nob  a 
and  Soba,  the  two  last  names  suggesting  that  she  had 

e  Ixv 


L>ege?tfls  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

visited  the  Egyptian  Sudan.  Passing  through  Bet  Te'e- 
man  (FoL  7a)  they  came  to  another  city  of  the  dead, 
and  here  Mary  raised  up  604  men,  530  women,  50,000 
virgins  and  500  old  men  (Fol.  8b).  In  this  neighbour- 
hood the  people  were  kind  to  Mary  and  the  Child,  and 
she  wished  to  do  good  to  them  in  some  way.  Whilst  she 
was  pondering  how  she  could  do  it,  Gabriel  appeared 
and  told  her  to  follow  him  and  to  bring  the  people  with 
her.  When  she  had  gathered  the  people  together 
Gabriel  set  out  for  the  sea  coast,  and  when  he  and  his 
followers  had  arrived  there  he  stood  up  and  uttered 
these  words  of  power  : — Kibar'os  Dermonad'es  R6- 
BAM  Me'er.  Then  straightway  the  sea  was  divided  into 
two  parts,  one  part  going  to  the  left  and  the  other  part 
to  the  right,  leaving  a  dry  road  between  them.  Gabriel 
led  the  people  down  on  to  the  bed  of  the  sea  and  they 
took  away  from  it  houses  of  gold,  10,000  silver  coins, 
10,000  brass  coins,  7000  beryls,  10,000  sapphires,  7000 
gems,  5000  pearls,  and  a  great  number  of  other  kinds  of 
precious  stones  (Fol.  9b).  Passing  on,  Mary  came  to  a 
region  where  she  saw  animals  fourteen  cubits  high,  with 
seven  wings  and  seven  legs  (Fol.  loa).  She  next  came  to 
a  district  where  the  women  were  barren  and  the  cattle 
brought  forth  no  young,  but  having  prayed  Mary  be- 
stowed upon  the  women  power  to  have  children,  and  all 
the  flocks  and  herds  becameexceedingly  prolific  (Fol.  1 1  a). 
Next,  accompanied  by  the  Archangels  Gabriel, 
Michael,  Rufael,  and  Uriel,  Mary  set  out  for  Syria. 
At  a  place  called  Semadar,  a  magician  came  out  and  re- 
viled her  and  cast  a  stone  at  her,  but  Mary  caused  the 
stone  to  be  deflected  in  its  course  and,  instead  of  striking 
her,  it  turned  back  and  smote  the  people  close  by  and 
killed  36  of  them  (Fol.  1 2b).  In  another  place  a  number 
of  men  attacked  the  Holy  Family,  and  by  the  command 
of  the  Child  a  wild  beast  rushed  upon  them  and  slew 
320  of  those  who  tried  to  hurt  Mary  (Fol.  15a).  From 
this  point  the  text  of  the  manuscript  becomes  much 

Ixvi 


Ethiopic  Literature  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

confused,  and  it  is  difficult  to  follow  the  course  of  the 
Holy  Family.  The  narrative  describes  the  persecution 
of  Herod  (Fol.  i8b),  and  the  wanderings  of  Mary  in 
and  about  Mount  Lebanon  (Fol.  20b).  At  Mount  Kona 
Mary  fell  asleep  under  a  tree,  and  she  had  a  vision  in 
which  the  angels  carried  her  soul  up  to  heaven,  and  God 
the  Father  welcomed  her  and  kissed  her,  and  she  saw 
David  and  the  Prophets  (Fol.  21a).  She  next  came  to 
Gedras  of  Kohol,  a  city  of  Maksim arr a.  Somewhere  in 
this  neighbourhood  she  had  another  vision,  and  an  angel 
carried  her  away  to  show  her  heaven.  When  they  ar- 
rived at  the  gates  of  heaven  they  found  them  closed, 
but  the  angel  pronounced  the  magical  words  Pilasoran 
PiLASAR  PiPiRAS  PiRAYAPis  LiMANANus,  and  Straight- 
Way  the  doors  flew  open  and  the  angel  led  Mary  in 
(Fol.  26b  ff).  Further  wanderings  in  Mount  Libanus 
followed  this  vision  (Fol.  41b).  At  Rofan  the  people 
stoned  Mary,  and  as  a  punishment  she  caused  horns 
two  cubits  long  to  grow  out  of  their  heads  (Fol.  44a). 
At  Kedros,  which  was  near  Arabia  {sic),  a  man  possessed 
of  a  devil  came  to  her  for  deliverance  from  his  cruelty. 
Mary  stood  up  and  uttered  the  following  words  of 
power  :  Yarosas  Gebtomar  Pila'os,  and  straightway  a 
serpent  70  cubits  long  came  forth  from  him.  Mary 
next  went  to  Mount  Sika  (Fol.  44b),  to  Durdis  (Fol. 
45a),  to  Kakra,  to  Barboy  (Fol.  46a).  On  Fol.  76  ff.  is 
a  version  of  the  story  of  Herod  and  Gigar,  the  governor 
of  Syria,  and  parts  of  it  resemble  the  text  which  is 
translated  on  pp.  202  ff  of  the  present  volume.  At 
Mesaris  there  was  a  cave  inhabited  by  a  serpent  (Fol. 
93a)  which  spread  terror  and  death  throughout  the 
country  ;  this  serpent  was  360  cubits  long  and  49  cubits 
wide  (in  girth  ?).  Mary  pronounced  the  following 
words  of  power  :  Kemaso'i  Dabratkaon  Kakaewos 
'AsNABAS,  and  straightway  Gabriel  came  down  and  cut 
the  monster  into  sixteen  pieces,  and  a  devil  in  the  form 
of  a  raven  came  out  of  its  belly.  The  manuscript  closes 

Ixvii 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

with  a  prayer  that  mercy  may  be  shown  by  Christ, 
through  the  prayers  of  Mary,  on  the  man  who  had  the 
book  written,  the  scribe,  and  the  reader  and  the  trans- 
lator of  it.  The  text  seems  to  me  to  be  a  compilation 
made  from  comparatively  modern  legends  of  the  Virgin 
current  in  Ethiopia  by  some  imperfectly  educated 
scribe,  who  made  many  mistakes,  both  in  his  facts  and 
in  his  writing.  Like  many  another  Oriental  scribe,  he 
had  no  idea  of  the  historical  sequence  of  events  in  the 
world,  and  his  geographical  knowledge  was  very  limited. 
He  was  an  ardent  lover  of  his  own  country,  and  says 
boldly  that  Ethiopia  is  the  finest  country  under  heaven. 
Though  an  orthodox  Monophysite,  he  saw  nothing  un- 
usual in  making  the  Archangel  Gabriel  and  the  Virgin 
Mary  use  magical  formulas  to  bring  about  the  perform- 
ance of  their  wishes. 

27.  Service  Books  containing  series  of  prayers  and 
hymns  to  the  Virgin  Mary.  The  following  are  the 
most  important  of  these  : — i.  The  'Arganona  Den- 
gel,  i.e.  the  Organ  of  the  Praise  of  the  Blessed  Virgin 
Mary,  also  known  as  the  "  Harp  of  the  Psalter,"  and 
the  "  Lyre  of  Praise."  This  work  is  arranged  for  the 
days  of  the  week,  beginning  with  Monday  and  ending 
with  Sunday.  The  reader  will  gain  a  general  idea  of  the 
contents  and  character  of  the  work  from  the  transla- 
tion of  a  few  folios  which  I  have  given  on  p.  297. 
There  are  several  copies  of  the  'Arganona  in  the  British 
Museum  (Add.  16,191,  Harl.  7629,  Orient.  559,  560, 

591.  592,  595)- 

2.  The  Weddase  Maryam,  or  [Book  of]  Praise  of 

Mary.  This  book  is  arranged  for  the  days  of  the  week, 
but  some  MSS.  begin  with  the  section  for  Sunday,  and 
some  with  the  section  for  Monday.  Which  arrange- 
ment is  the  older  cannot  be  said ;  there  are  several  MSS. 
of  each  class  in  the  British  Museum  (Sunday,  Add. 
11,621,  18,994,  165659;  Monday,  Add.  16,203,  16,225, 
Orient.  535,  541,  etc.).    Many  portions  of  this  work 

Ixviii 


Ethiopic  Literature  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

seem  to  have  been  translated  from  some  Coptic  text 

similar  to  that  which  was  published  by  Tuki  in  his 

Book  of  Theotokia  (Rome,  1764  ?),  and  it  is  probable 

that  the  first  Ethiopic  translation  was  made  from  a 

Coptic  Service-book  in  Ethiopia  in  the  Vllth  century 

A.D.   The  greatest  importance  is  attached  to  the  Wed- 

dase  Maryam  in  Ethiopia,  and  it  seems  to  rank  only 

second  in  importance  to  the  Weddase  'Amlak,  i.e.  the 

"  Book  of  Praise  of  God."    It  is  of  such  importance 

that  I  have  given  a  complete  English  translation  of 

the  work    on    pp.    279-296.      A   careful  edition    of 

the  Ethiopic  text  was  printed   by  Karl  Fries  in  his 

Inaugural   Dissertation    Weddase  Marjam   (Leipzig, 

1892),   and   from   this   I   have   made  my  translation. 

Copies  of  the  work  appear  in  manuscripts  side  by  side 

with  the  Psalms  of  David,  the  Song  of  Solomon,  and 

the  Canticles,  and  the  Weddase  Marvam  is  considered 

.  .         .      •' 

as  of  equal  merit  and  authority  with  them.   In  Orient. 

594  we  find  the  'Arganona  Weddase,  and  the  Weddase 
'Amlak,  and  the  Weddase  Maryam  combined.  The 
Weddase  'Amlak,  or  "  Praises  of  God,"  is  arranged  ac- 
cording to  the  seven  days  of  the  week.  On  Monday 
prayers  of  Basil  of  Csesarea  arc  recited,  on  Tuesday  and 
Wednesday  prayers  of  Ephraim  Syrus,  on  Thursday  the 
prayer  of  the  'Aragawi  Manfasawi,  on  Friday  prayers  of 
'Abba  Sinoda  (Shcnuti),  on  Saturday  prayers  of  Atha- 
nasius,  and  on  Sunday  prayers  of  Cyril  of  Alexandria, 

28.  The  Mazmura  Dengel,  or  Psalter  of  the  Virgin 
Mary,  is  often  found  side  by  side  with  the  Psalter  of 
David,  the  Song  of  Songs,  and  the  Canticles,  but  it  was 
not  considered  a  work  of  great  importance  (Add.  24,992, 
Orient.  535,  etc.).  A  work  of  similar  character  is  the 
Mazmura  Krestos,  or  Psalter  of  Christ,  and  in  one 
manuscript  (Orient.  537)  we  have  the  Psalms  of  David, 
and  the  Psalters  of  Christ  and  the  Virgin  combined. 

29.  Prayers  for  the  dead,  ascribed  to  the  Virgin  Mary, 
are  found  in  Add.  16,194,  foil.  33-35. 

Ixix 


Introduction 


V.   THE  TRANSLATIONS  PRINTED  HEREIN 


I.  ^  I  ^HE  History  of  Hanna.  This  section  is  the 
X  result  of  a  revision  and  rearrangement  of  the 
translation  which  I  made  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the 
possession  of  the  late  Lady  Meux  and  printed  in  her 
Miracles  oj  the  Virgin.,  London,  1899.  This  MS.  was 
written  in  the  XVth  century  and  was  used  as  a  service- 
book,  the  History  of  Hanna  being  arranged  in  sections 
for  the  days  of  the  week.  It  is  illustrated  with  pictures 
of  an  archaic  character,  all  of  which  have  been  repro- 
duced photographically  in  this  volume.  This  work 
shows  that  as  early  as  the  XVth  century  the  deification 
of  Hanna  had  begun  in  Ethiopia,  and  that  her  birth 
was  regarded  as  having  been  brought  about  by  miracu- 
lous means.  It  describes  at  length  how  Mary,  in  the 
form  of  a  White  Pearl,  was  inserted  in  the  body  of 
Adam  by  God,  and  how  it  passed  from  body  to  body 
until  it  entered  Hanna,  when  it  developed  into  the 
Lady  Mary.  A  further  proof  of  the  equality  of  Hanna 
and  Mary  in  the  minds  of  the  Ethiopians  is  the  series 
of  Salutations,  or  Greetings,  to  the  members  of 
Hanna's  body.  The  Ethiopic  text  is  printed  in  Lady 
Meux's  edition  of  the  Miracles  oj  the  Virgi^i  mentioned 
above. 

2.  The  Covenant  of  Mercy,  i.e.  the  Covenant 
which  Christ  made  with  the  Virgin  Mary  when  He 
promised  that  as  a  reward  for  the  Five  Sorrows  which 
she  endured.  He  would  forgive  the  sins  of  every  one 
who  remembered  them  and  the  salutation  of  Gabriel. 
Two  versions  of  the  Covenant  are  given  herein,  to- 

Ixx 


The  Translations  Printed  Herein 

gether  with  the  Seven  Salutations  to  it,  which  arc  un- 
common. For  the  Ethiopic  texts  see  the  Miracles  oj  the 
Virgin,  Loncion,  1899,  and  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No. 
604. 

3.  The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  as  told  by 
HER  TO  Theophilus,  Patriarch  OF  ALEXANDRIA.  Trans- 
lated from  the  Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  2  and  Brit.  Mus. 
MS.  Orient.  No.  604.  Theophilus  succeeded  Timothy 
as  the  twenty-second  Archbishop  of  Alexandria  in  July, 
A.D.  385,  and  died  a.d.  412.  The  text  here  translated  is 
an  extract  from  the  Discourse  which  Theophilus  is  said 
to  have  pronounced  on  the  Virgin  Mary  on  the  6th  day 
of  the  month  of  JHadar.  In  this  Discourse  the  Arch- 
bishop described  at  considerable  length  the  life  of 
Mary,  but  as  the  greater  part  of  his  work  is  given  more 
fully  in  the  other  sections  printed  herein  I  have  only 
reproduced  the  words  that  the  Virgin  herself  is  said  to 
have  spoken  to  Theophilus.  It  was  a  well-known  rhe- 
torical device,  and  was  much  used  by  great  preachers 
among  the  Copts,  to  address  Mary  by  name  in  the 
course  of  their  discourses,  and  then  to  recite  to  the  con- 
gregations what  purported  to  be  her  answer. 

4.  The  Narrative  of  the  Virgin  Mary  as  told  by 

HERSELF  TO  TiMOTHY,  PaTRIARCH  OF  ALEXANDRIA.    This 

translation  is  made  from  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No. 
604,  fol.  25b  if.  This  large  and  well- written  manu- 
script was  copied  early  in  the  XVIIIth  century  from 
very  much  older  MSS.  and  was  intended  to  be  a  service- 
book  for  use  in  a  church  on  the  festival  days  of  the 
Virgin.  The  most  interesting  portion  of  the  narrative 
is  that  which  describes  the  journey  of  the  Holy  Family 
to  Egypt,  and  the  troubles  that  came  upon  them  as 
they  travelled  down  the  old  caravan  road  by  the  sea- 
coast  and  across  the  desert  to  the  Eastern  Delta  and 
Heliopolis.    The  writer  held  the  view  that  they  tra- 

Ixxi 


Legends  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

veiled  southwards  as  far  as  Hermopolis  Magna  (the 
Khemenu  and  Shmun  of  the  Egyptians,  and  the  modern 
Aslimiinen,  or  Eshmunen),  which  lies  about  i8o  miles 
south  of  Cairo,  but  it  is  possible  that  some  confusion 
between  Heliopolis  and  Hermopolis  occurred  in  the 
MSS.  at  an  early  period.  There  was  a  very  famous 
church  of  the  Virgin  at  Ashmunen  in  the  Xth  century, 
and  on  one  of  its  pillars  there  was  said  to  be  the  impress 
of  the  hand  of  our  Lord.  The  names  of  the  places  men- 
tioned in  the  narrative  are  too  corrupt  to  be  identifiable. 

5.  The  Annunciation  of  Gabriel  to  Mary,  trans- 
lated from  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  67a  ff. 
This  Discourse,  of  unknown  authorship,  is  not  found  in 
the  oldest  Ethiopic  MSS.,  and  it  is  probably  the  work 
of  a  comparatively  modern  writer.  It  was  pronounced 
on  the  29th  day  of  Magabit,  i.e.  March  26,  which  is  the 
day  on  which  the  festival  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel  is 
celebrated,  and  it  may  have  been,  in  an  original  form, 
written  in  honour  rather  of  Gabriel  than  of  Mary. 
Some  parts  of  this  composition  seem  to  be  derived  from 
the  Dialogue  of  Mary  and  the  Angel  which  is  found  in 
a  single  manuscript  of  the  XVth  century.  See  Brit. 
Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  650,  fol.  134a. 

6.  The  Conception  and  Birth  of  our  Lady  Mary, 
THE  Bearer  of  God,  translated  from  Brit.  Mus.  MS. 
Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  78a  if.  This  composition  is  based 
upon  Coptic  and  Arabic  versions  of  such  works  as  the 
Protevangelium  Jacobi  and  the  Evangelium  de  N ativitate 
Marice.  See  Thilo,  Codex  Afocryphus,  Leipzig,  1832, 
and  Tischendorf,  Evangelia  Apocrypha,  Leipzig,  1876. 

7.  A  Tract  which  describeth  how  the  History  of 
St.  Mary  was  discovered,  translated  from  Brit.  Mus. 
MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  50a.  This  Tract  is  probably 
based  upon  an  ancient  tradition  to  the  effect  that  the 

Ixxii 


The  Translations  Printed  Herein 

libraries  of  the  oldest  monasteries  on  Mount  Sinai,  i.e. 
those  that  were  in  existence  before  the  reign  of  Jus- 
tinian, contained  many  ancient  manuscripts,  some  of 
which  were  as  old  as  the  time  of  the  Apostles.  In  its 
present  form  it  seems  to  be  a  translation  from  the 
Coptic. 

8.  The  History  of  the  Death  of  the  Virgin  Mary 
AS  TOLD  BY  Saint  John,  translated  from  Brit.  Mus.  MS. 
Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  45a.  This  is  a  late  Recension  of 
the  work  called  "  'Astar'yo,"  probably  because  it  de- 
scribes the  sudden  appearance  of  the  Apostles  from  the 
various  countries  wherein  they  were,  together  with 
myriads  of  archangels  and  angels,  just  before  the  depar- 
ture of  the  soul  of  Mary  from  this  world.  It  is  based 
upon  very  ancient  traditions  extant  in  Greek,  Latin, 
Syriac,  Coptic  and  Arabic,  and  was  read  in  all  the 
churches  on  the  21st  day  of  Ter  (January  16).  The 
Greek  and  Latin  Churches  celebrate  the  Obdormitio  S. 
Mariae  Virginis  (or  Obitus  S.  Marias  Virginis)  and  the 
Assumptio  S.  Mariae  Virginis  on  the  same  day,  but  the 
Ethiopians  commemorate  her  death  on  the  21st  day  of 
Ter,  and  her  Translation,  or  Ascent  of  her  body  into 
heaven,  on  the  1 6th  day  of  Nahasse  (August  9) .  On  this 
point  see  Ludolf,  Hist.  JEthio-p.  Commentarius,  p.  436, 
No.  XLIX.  For  the  Liber  de  Dormitione  MaricE  (in 
Greek)  and  the  Transitus  Marine,  A  and  B  (in  Latin), 
see  Tischendorf ,  Apocalypses  Apocryphce,  Leipzig,  1866, 
p.  95  ff. 

9.  History  of  the  Persecution  and  Death  of  the 
Virgin  Mary,  translated  from  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient. 
No.  604,  fol.  53a.  Another  version  of  the  life  of  the 
Virgin  Mary  after  the  Crucifixion,  and  her  Death,  and 
the  ascension  of  her  body  into  heaven.  The  title  of  the 
work  in  the  manuscript  gives  no  author's  name,  and  it 
is  not  stated  when  it  was  to  be  read. 

Ixxiii 


Lege7ids  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

10.  The  History  of  the  Flight  of  the  Virgin 
Mary  to  Mount  Lebanon,  translated  from  the  rare 
text  found  in  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  fol.iiza. 
This  work  describes  the  persecution  of  Herod  and  his 
attempts  to  find  Mary  and  the  Child  in  order  to  slay 
them.  Warned  by  an  angel  Joseph  flees  from  the  desert 
of  Lebanon,  whilst  Herod  is  searching  for  the  Child  in 
the  desert  of  Lebanon  and  Bartas  (Berut  ?).  Mary  was 
greatly  helped  by  Domitianus,  the  Governor  of  Syria, 
and  by  Gigar,  who  seems  to  have  been  his  Deputy  or 
Judge.  Herod  doubted  the  loyalty  of  Gigar,  and  tor- 
tured him  because  he  befriended  the  Holy  Family,  and 
at  length  put  him  to  death.  H  the  statements  in  this 
work  be  historical,  we  must  assume  that  Joseph  and 
Mary  fled  to  the  desert  east  of  the  Jordan,  and  wan- 
dered about  there,  suffering  great  hardships,  for  some 
time  before  they  set  out  for  Egypt.  If  this  be  so  they 
probably  hid  themselves  until  they  could  join  one  of  the 
large  caravans  trading  between  Persia  and  Egypt,  or 
Mesopotamia  and  Egypt.  With  the  money  with  which 
Domitianus  provided  them  this  would  be  an  easy  mat- 
ter. I  have  not  been  able  to  find  any  ancient  version  of 
this  History,  and  it  is  probably  founded  on  native 
Ethiopian  tradition. 

11.  Salutations  to  the  Members  of  the  Body  of 
THE  Blessed  Virgin  Mary,  translated  from  the  Lady 

Meux  MS.  No.  3. 

12.  The  Vision  of  Mary  concerning  Paradise  and 
Hell  as  related  by  her  to  John,  the  son  of  Zebedee, 
translated  from  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  605.  The 
Virgin,  under  the  guidance  of  our  Lord,  visited  the 
abode  of  the  righteous  and  the  place  of  punishment  of 
the  wicked,  and  in  answer  to  her  questions  our  Lord  ex- 
plained to  her  the  causes  why  some  souls  suffer  one  kind 
of  punishment  and  some  another.  The  narrative  seems 

Ixxiv 


The  Translations  Printed  Herein 

to  be  based  on  ancient  Coptic  legends  which  have  made 
their  way  into  Ethiopic  through  Arabic  translations,  for 
the  Hell  which  is  described  in  it  is  clearly  derived  from 
ancient  Egyptian  works.  The  title  gives  no  directions 
as  to  the  day  on  which  the  Vision  is  to  be  read,  a  fact 
which  suggests  that  its  appearance  in  Ethiopic  is  not 
very  ancient. 

13.  The  Weddase  Maryam,  or  Book  of  Daily  Praises 
of  Mary,  is  translated  from  Add.  18994  (written  in  the 
XVth  century)  and  other  MSS.  of  the  work  in  the 
British  Museum  ;  the  variants  in  these  MSS.  are  nu- 
merous but  are  not  important.    See  page  279. 

14.  A  specimen  of  the  'Arganona  Weddase,  trans- 
lated from  Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  560.  This  work 
was,  according  to  Bruce,  written  by  'Abba  Gabriel  in 
the  first  half  of  the  XVth  century,  during  the  reign  of 
Zar'a  Ya'kob.    See  page  297. 


PLATE  II 


Frjw  the  Life  of  Haiiiid,  Lady  Meux  MS.  Xo.  4. 

Facsimile  of  a  page  of  text  of  the  Life  of  Hanna 


THE   HISTORY  OF   HANNA,   THE   MOTHER 
OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY 

[Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4.] 

THE    PREFACE   WHICH    IS   TO    BE    READ    ON   THE    FIRST    DAY 
OF  THE  WEEK 

Er  US  return  and  again  praise  the  daughter  of 
Joachim  and  Hanna,  that  is  to  say,  the  Virgin 
Mary,  the  seat  of  the  Flame  Whose  Name  is  '  Em- 
manuel,' and  let  us  tell  the  story  of  her  begetting  by  an 
honourable  and  righteous  old  man,  whose  works  were 
pure  and  who  kept  watch  like  the  angels.  It  is,  more- 
over, a  good  thing  to  tell  the  story  of  the  begetting  of 
our  Lady  Mary,  the  God-bearer,  the  Virgin,  and  it  is 
sweeter  far  than  honey  and  sugar.  It  is  like  sweet  wine 
to  the  taste,  and  like  ointment  to  the  bones,  and  like  the 
hearing  of  a  word  of  wisdom  (Fol.  6ia)  by  the  ear  of 
the  man  of  understanding,  and  like  the  purple  where- 
with a  man  decketh  himself,  and  like  a  crown  of  gold  to 
the  head,  and  like  eye-paint  to  the  eyes,  and  like  ear- 
rings to  the  ears,  and  like  a  collar  to  the  neck,  and  like 
seals  (or,  bracelets)  to  the  wrists,  and  like  rings  to  the 
hands,  and  like  a  tunic  that  reacheth  from  the  loins  to 
the  thighs. 

Exalted  then  is  the  memorial  of  the  praise  of  the 
Virgin,  who  became  like  a  plant  in  the  house  of  God, 
and  like  the  cedar  tree  on  Lebanus,  and  like  the  cypress 
tree  on  the  mountains  of  Hermon,  and  like  a  palm  tree 
on  the  river  bank,  (Fol.  6ib)  and  like  a  rose  on  the  mar- 
gin of  a  pool,  and  like  a  beautiful  olive  tree  in  the  sanc- 
tuary of  God.  The  odour  of  her  mouth  is  like  unto 
that  of  the  cinnamon  tree  and  oil  of  cinnamon,  and  it 


The  History  of  Hannd 

i>5  like,  urto  the  sniell  of  the  incense  in  the  place  of  the 
sanctuary,  and  her  branches  are  branches  of  glory  and 
grace.  The  memorial  of  the  praise  of  the  Virgin  is 
abundant  like  the  flood  of  Pison  and  Euphrates,  and  is 
like  unto  the  flood  of  Gihon  (i.e.  the  Nile)  and  Tigris, 
it  is  like  unto  [the  light  of]  the  moon  when  full,  it  is 
like  unto  the  sun  in  the  month  of  Marmuda  (April)  in 
splendour,  and  it  is  like  unto  a  lamp  that  is  set  upon  a 
stand.  Who  hath  such  praise,  who  hath  such  glorifica- 
tion, who  hath  such  sweetness  as  the  woman  whom 
Joachim  begot  ?  I  desire  greatly  to  be  her  servant,  for 
I  know  that  she  will  become  unto  me  a  counsellor  for 
good,  and  that  she  will  console  me  in  my  sorrow  and 
affliction,  and  that  through  her  I  shall  find  affection 
with  the  multitude  and  honour  with  the  elders  (Fol. 
62a).  I  shall  make  myself  to  be  considered  marvellous 
before  the  face  of  the  mighty,  even  though  I  hold  my 
peace,  and  they  shall  wait  until  I  speak.  They  shall 
draw  nigh  unto  me,  and  I  shall  appear  as  a  good  man 
among  the  congregation  ;  for  in  sorrow  and  weeping 
there  is  nought  but  joy  and  gladness.  The  will  of  the 
Virgin  is  deathless,  and  her  love  for  man  is  abundant, 
happiness  and  goodness  are  in  her  hands  and  never- 
ending  riches,  in  her  speech  are  doctrine,  and  know- 
ledge, and  honour,  and  in  her  words  are  peace  and  love. 
For  this  reason  I  preach  and  I  tell  the  story  of  the  birth 
of  our  Lady  Mary  from  the  loins  of  Joachim,  the  staff 
of  the  kingdom,  and  from  the  womb  of  Hanna,  the 
staff  of  the  priesthood.  Come  then,  O  ye  prophets  of 
the  Good  God,  and  be  ye  my  helpers  (Fol.  62b)  that  I 
may  declare  the  sweetness  of  the  glory  of  your  daugh- 
ter, the  mother  of  light. 

We  will  ask  you,  and  you  shall  inform  us,  for  thus  is 
it  written  in  the  Book,  which  saith,  "  Ask  thy  father, 
and  he  shall  teach  thee  ;  and  thine  elders,  and  they 
shall  relate  it  unto  thee  "  (Deut.  xxxii,  7).  And  again 
it  is  written  in  the  Book,  which  saith,  ''  With  Thy 


PLATE  III 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4. 


St.  George  spearing  the  Dragon.  The  text  reads  :  "  O  Saint  George 
bring  me  out  of  temptation  of  the  body  and  soul — I  Liswerawe,  am  thy 
beloved  one."      Introductory  picture  to  the  Life  of  Hanna 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgi?t  Mary 

hidden  things  they  have  filled  full  their  bellies ;  they 
have  filled  full  their  children,  and  have  left  their  super- 
abundance to  their  children  "  (Psalm  xvii,  14).  It  is 
you  whose  bellies  are  filled  full  with  the  mystery  of  the 
hidden  things  of  God,  and  your  children  who  have  been 
filled  full  are  the  Apostles,  according  to  my  belief.  And 
again  the  Prophet  saith,  "  Instead  of  thy  fathers  chil- 
dren shall  be  born  unto  thee,  whom  thou  mayest  estab- 
lish as  angels  for  all  the  earth  "  (Psalm  xlv,  16).  Verily 
they  have  become  filled  full  (Fol.  63a)  with  the  hidden 
things  of  the  mystery  of  the  Godhead,  for  they  have 
stablished  in  all  the  earth  the  new  ordinances  of  the 
prophecy  of  the  Prophets  and  of  none  others,  and  they 
have  left  their  superabundance  unto  their  babes,  of 
whom  the  Book  saith,  "  These  are  the  peoples  whose 
offspring  and  children  are  [occupied]  in  the  ordinances 
thereof."  Some  of  them  have  become  archbishops,  and 
metropolitans,  and  bishops ;  and  some  of  them  have 
become  priests,  and  deacons,  and  sub-deacons,  and 
readers,  and  singers ;  and  unto  some  of  them  hath  been 
given  the  power  to  prophesy  ;  and  unto  some  of  them 
hath  it  been  given  to  know  the  interpretation  of  the 
word  that  is  hidden. 

Come  then,  and  gather  yourselves  together,  O  all  ye 
nations,  (Fol.  63b)  and  peoples,  and  congregations  of 
Jacob,  in  the  house  of  Joachim,  the  pure  man,  wherein 
ye  will  find  a  holy  marriage  feast,  without  blemish  and 
without  grief,  which  is  like  unto  the  drinking  of  wine 
that  maketh  glad  the  heart  of  man,  and  unto  ointment 
that  maketh  the  face  to  shine,  wherein  is  neither  trouble 
nor  labour.  When  the  Virgin  Mary  (Solyana),  the 
daughter  of  Joachim  and  Hanna,  gave  birth  unto 
Christ  the  King,  the  mountains  became  the  bread  of 
life,  and  the  hills  produced  grapes  of  blessing,  and  the 
waters  of  the  sea  became  milk  and  honey.  In  this 
house  there  are  none  of  the  many  spirits  of  sickness  that 
have  been  smitten  with  the  sharp  arrows  of  sin,  and  we 


The  History  of  H anna 

declare  that  it  is  meet  that  we  should  be  gathered  to- 
gether in  the  marriage  chamber,  that  is  to  say,  in  (Fol. 
64a)  the  house  of  Joachim,  the  father  of  Mary,  [and  of 
Hanna],  who  bore  the  mother  of  our  Redeemer  Jesus 
Christ. 

In  the  beginning  God  made  the  heavens  that  are 
above,  and  all  that  is  therein,  and  He  created  this 
[earth],  and  after  that  the  Garden  of  Life.  And  He 
also  created  the  sun,  and  the  moon,  and  the  stars,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  abysses,  and  the  fish,  and  the  birds  of 
the  heavens  which  fly,  and  beasts  great  and  small,  and 
the  winds,  and  the  clouds,  and  rain  and  dew  ;  and  He 
created  everything  and  ordered  it  well.  And  when  He 
had  made  an  end  of  creating  His  creation.  He  created 
our  father  Adam  in  His  own  form  and  likeness,  and  He 
breathed  upon  him  (Fol.  64b)  the  spirit  of  life.  At 
that  time  Mary,  the  daughter  of  Joachim,  existed  in 
the  belly  of  Adam  in  the  form  of  a  White  Pearl,  which 
shone  in  his  right  side,  and  was  a  perfect  likeness  [of 
her] ;  and  the  similitude  of  her  flew  up  into  the  heights 
of  heaven.  Again,  God  showed  it  unto  Moses  in  the 
desert  when  He  was  telling  him  how  to  make  the  build- 
ing of  her  Tabernacle.  And  God  commanded  him  to 
make  a  Tabernacle  of  wood  that  could  not  be  eaten  by 
worms,  and  to  cover  it  over  with  gold,  both  the  inside 
and  the  outside  thereof.  In  that  holy  Tabernacle  God 
commanded  him  to  place  the  Two  Tables  of  stone, 
whereon  were  written  the  Ten  Words,  the  WTiting 
whereof  was  the  writing  of  God.  And  above  that 
Tabernacle  was  the  mercy-seat  of  gold,  and  above  (Fol. 
65a)  the  mercy-seat  were  the  Cherubim  which  were 
made  of  carved  gold  ;  and  from  this  Tabernacle  God 
was  wont  to  appear  unto  Moses,  and  unto  Aaron,  and 
unto  many  of  the  priests  to  whom  He  wished  to  appear. 
And  Solomon  also  built  a  Sanctuary  in  the  form  of  this 
Tabernacle  made  of  cedar  wood  and  pine  wood,  and  he 
covered  the  floor,  and  the  roof,  and  the  walls  thereof 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgiii  Mary 

with  plates  of  gold,  and  on  the  doors  thereof  were  en- 
graved figures  of  palm  branches,  and  of  animals  that 
were  like  unto  cherubs  in  fine  gold.  And  inside  the 
H0I7  of  HoHes,  at  the  place  where  the  holy  Tabernacle 
rested,  was  a  figure  of  Mary,  the  daughter  of  Joachim. 
And  Solomon  made  two  Cherubim  of  red  gold  which 
overshadowed  her  with  their  wings,  and  God  was  wont 
to  appear  there,  sometimes  in  visible  form,  and  some- 
times (FoL  65b)  in  a  dream,  and  sometimes  in  a  vision, 
unto  those  to  whom  He  wished  to  appear,  from  Moses 
to  Zechariah.  Then,  after  a  few  days,  God  spake  unto 
the  children  of  Israel,  when  they  provoked  Him  to 
wrath,  saying,  "  Where  is  the  house  which  ye  can  build 
for  My  resting  place  ?  Where  is  the  place  [fit  for]  My 
habitation  ?  Behold,  the  habitation  whereunto  I  will 
come  is  that  which  the  hand  of  man  hath  not  made, 
and  which  shall  be  the  salvation  of  Adam  and  his  pos- 
terity "  (Isaiah  Ixvi,  i). 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  FIRST  DAY  OF  THE  WEEK 

Here  beginneth  the  Book  of  the  Generations  of  our  Lady 
Mary,  the  daughter  of  Joachim,  the  son  of  David. 

Solomon  begat  Nathan,  Nathan  begat  Levi,  Levi  be- 
gat Mattatha  and  Kesraha,  and  Kesraha  (Fol.  66a)  be- 
gat Joachim,  the  father  of  our  Lady  Mary,  the  holy 
Virgin.  Now,  Matthat  begat  three  daughters.  The 
name  of  the  eldest  was  Mary,  the  name  of  the  second 
was  Sophia,  and  the  [name  of  the]  third  was  Hanna. 
And  Mary  bore  Salome,  and  Sophia  bore  EHsabeth,  the 
mother  of  John,  and  Hanna  bore  Mary  [the  Virgin]. 
Similarly,  Joseph  was  descended  from  David  the  king, 
for  when  Nathan,  the  brother  of  James,  died,  Matthat 
married  his  widow,  so  that  he  might  raise  up  seed  to  his 
brother.  And  he  begat  Eli  (now  Eli  and  James  were 
brothers),  and  Eli  begat  Joseph  ;  behold  then  [Joseph 
and  Mary]  were  related   to    each   other.    And   the 

5 


The  History  of  H anna 

daughter  of  Joachim  became  the  child  of  Kesra,  (Foh 
66b)  the  brother  of  Matthat,  and  Joseph  was  the  son 
of  the  brother  of  Joachim  her  father  ;  therefore  Joa- 
chim is  said  to  be  of  the  tribe  of  Judah,  and  of  the 
family  of  David.  Now  Nathan  begat  two  sons,  that  is 
to  say,  James  and  Joachim,  and  when  Nathan  died 
Mattatthias,  the  son  of  Levi,  married  his  widow,  who 
was  of  the  family  of  Solomon  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  ; 
and  he  begat  by  her  a  son  and  called  his  name  Eli.  So, 
then,  he  became  the  brother  of  James  and  of  Joachim. 
And  Eli  married  a  wife,  and  he  died  without  begetting 
a  son  ;  then  James  took  his  widow  to  wife  and  begat  by 
her  Joseph,  the  spouse  of  our  Lady  jMary. 

And  we  will  also  declare  unto  you  how  our  Lady 
Mary  was  descended  (Fol.  67a)  from  Adam.  [From 
Adam]  she  came  down  into  the  body  of  Seth,  shining 
like  a  White  Pearl ;  and  from  Seth  she  came  into  the 
body  of  Enos ;  and  from  Enos  to  Cainan,  and  from 
Cainan  to  Mahalaleel,  and  from  Mahalaleel  to  Jared, 
and  from  Jared  to  Enoch,  and  from  Enoch  to  Methu- 
selah, and  from  Methuselah  to  Lamech,  and  from  La- 
mech  to  Noah  ;  and  in  this  wise  she  dwelt  in  their 
bodies,  passing  from  the  body  of  the  one  into  the  body 
of  the  other.  And  again  she  dwelt  in  the  bodies  of 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  from  Jacob  she  came 
to  Judah.  Then  she  came  to  David  and  to  Solomon, 
and  passing  from  one  to  the  other  she  came  to  Joachim. 
And  Joachim  (Fol.  67b)  said  unto  Hanna  his  wife,  "  I 
saw  the  heavens  opened,  and  a  white  bird  went  forth 
therefrom  and  hovered  over  my  head."  And  likewise 
Hanna  said  unto  him,  "  I  had  a  dream  this  day,  and  I 
saw  a  dove  sitting  upon  my  head,  and  it  entered  into 
my  belly."  And  thirty  days  after  they  had  told  each 
other  these  things,  that  is,  on  the  seventh  day  of  the 
month  Nahasse  (August  3 1),  Hanna  conceived  our  Lady 
Mary,  on  the  day  that  God  blessed.  Blessed  is  he  who 
shall  clothe  the  naked.   Blessed  is  he  who  shall  feed  the 

6 


PLATE   IV 


From  the  Life  of  Hanm'i,  Lady  Meux  MS.  A'o.  4, 

Hanna  and  Joachim  praying  earnestly  for  offspring 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

hungry.  Blessed  is  he  who  shall  set  free  him  that  is  in 
prison.  Blessed  is  he  who  shall  visit  the  sick  on  that 
day,  for  he  shall  obtain  a  portion  in  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  (Fol.  68a)  with  Joachim,  and  with  Hanna,  and 
with  Mary  the  Virgin,  for  ever  and  ever.   Amen. 

And  six  months  after  it  had  become  known  that  the 
blessed  Hanna  had  conceived,  the  kinsfolk  of  Joachim 
her  husband  and  those  of  herself  heard  thereof,  and 
they  came  unto  her  and  said,  "  Is  the  matter  that  we 
hear  concerning  thee  [true]  ?  What  is  this  thing  that 
hath  come  upon  thee  after  thy  days  [for  child-bearing] 
are  passed  ?  "  Now  there  was  a  certain  woman  among 
the  kinsfolk  of  Hanna  who  was  blind  in  one  eye,  and  she 
touched  the  belly  of  Hanna,  saying,  "  Is  it  true,  what  I 
have  heard  ?  My  sister,  how  canst  thou  conceive,  being 
an  old  woman  ?  "  And  afterwards  the  woman  touched 
her  eye  which  was  blind,  and  straightway  (Fol.  68b)  it 
was  opened  for  her,  and  she  saw  the  light.  Then  she 
said  unto  Hanna,  "  O  Hanna,  blessed  art  thou  because 
thou  hast  in  thy  womb  a  child  who  whilst  unborn  can 
heal  the  sick  ;  when  he  hath  made  himself  manifest, 
and  hath  come  forth  from  thee,  how  many  will  be  the 
people  whom  he  shall  heal !  "  And  many  sick  folk 
came  and  touched  Hanna,  even  as  the  woman  had  done, 
and  they  were  made  whole  and  recovered  from  their 
sicknesses ;  and  this  matter  became  a  hard  one  unto  all 
the  elders  of  Israel.  May  the  prayer  of  Hanna  and  the 
prayer  of  Joachim  protect  as  a  thing  well-pleasing  unto 
her  daughter  [Mary]  her  servant  Gabra  Maryam  for 
ever  and  ever  !  Amen.  May  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
write  down  the  name  of  Gabra  Maryam,  the  poor  and 
miserable  sinner,  who  at  his  own  expense  has  had 
written  the  "  Book  of  the  History  of  the  blessed  Hanna 
(Fol.  69a)  and  the  History  of  the  Generations  of 
Joachim,"  with  a  pen  of  light  that  shall  never  be  de- 
stroyed. And  may  their  intercession  on  the  day  of 
retribution  and  rebuke  deliver  both  Gabra  Maryam 


The  History  of  Hannd 

and  the  scribe  Gabra  Krestos,  the  defiled  one  who  is 
not  fit  to  be  touched,  from  the  path  of  sin  for  ever  and 
ever  !    Amen. 

SALUTATIONS  TO  THE   MEMBERS  OF  THE   BODY   OF  HANNA, 
THE  MOTHER  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN   MARY 

Salutation  to  the  mention  of  thy  name,  which  is 
more  pleasant  than  the  [sound  of  the]  singing  of  a 
song. 

Salutation  to  thy  members  and  to  the  black  hair  of 
thy  head,  O  Hanna,  mother  of  Mary,  thou  life  of  all 
the  world.  In  thee  are  established  the  qualities  of  be- 
ings of  ficsh  and  blood  and  of  the  angels  which  are  in 
the  heights  of  heaven  above. 

Salutation  to  thy  head  and  to  thy  face  [which  is] 
the  morning. 

Salutation  to  thine  eyebrows  and  to  thy  bright 
eyes.  Deliver  me,  O  Hanna,  from  sorrow,  and  woe, 
and  lamentation,  even  as  Noah,  the  righteous  man,  who 
was  faithful  with  his  children,  was  delivered  through 
thee  from  the  abyss  of  transgression  and  from  the 
Flood. 

Salutation  to  thine  ears,  and  to  thy  cheeks  be  the 
words  of  salutation. 

Salutation  to  thy  nostrils  and  to  thy  lips  with  words 
of  praise.  O  Hanna,  mother  of  Mary,  let  not  the 
sword  of  the  flood  come  to  me,  and  if  my  enemy  build 
his  palace  in  heaven  let  the  sword  of  death  quickly 
purify  him. 

Salutation  to  thy  mouth,  and  to  thy  crystal  (i.e. 
white)  teeth,  and  to  thine  awesome  voice,  and  to  thy 
breathings,  and  to  thy  throat,  and  to  whatsoever  apper- 
taineth  to  thy  neck.  Behold,  I  wait  in  this  place  for 
thee  to  show  me,  O  Hanna,  the  passing  away  of  the 
foolish  enemy. 

Salutation  to  thy  shoulders,  which  are  the  curtains 
of  the  back  and  are  joined  to  thy  dainty  breast,  and  to 

8 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

thy  tender  bosom.  O  Book  of  Life,  Hanna,  thou 
mother  of  Mary,  Sayada,  let  mine  enemies  be  de- 
stroyed, and  let  them  not  be  left  for  a  reward,  even  as 
thou  didst  destroy  Judas,  the  son  of  perdition. 

Salutation  to  thy  hands  and  arms. 

Salutation  to  thy  fore-arms,  and  to  thine  elbows, 
and  to  the  palms  of  thine  hands.  O  Hanna,  mother  of 
Mary,  the  mother  of  Christ  God,  let  mine  enemies 
be  destroyed  by  the  spear  of  the  Hidden  God,  even 
as  Eglon  [King  of  Moab]  was  destroyed  (Judges  iii, 
21,  22). 

Salutation  to  thy  white  fingers,  and  to  thy  [henna] 
covered  nails. 

Salutation  to  thy  breasts  and  to  whatsoever  be- 
longeth  to  thy  side.  O  Hanna,  thy  majesty  is  hard  to 
describe.  Let  mine  enemy  receive  as  his  reward  pun- 
ishment and  affliction,  and  let  the  back  of  the  serpent 
be  accursed. 

Salutation  to  thy  belly  and  to  thy  heart. 

Salutation  that  is  meet  be  to  thy  bowels  and  to 
every  member  that  is  in  thee,  and  to  thy  mind,  whereof 
the  like  cannot  be  found.  O  Hanna,  celestial  and  ter- 
restrial beings  make  their  boast  of  thee,  and  they  make 
their  prayers  unto  thee. 

Salutation  to  thy  navel  and  to  thy  blessed  womb. 

Salutation  to  thy  thighs  and  to  thy  knees. 

O  Hanna,  mother  of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Christ 
God,  if  mine  enemies  would  fight  against  me  at  morn 
or  eventide,  let  the  path  of  my  enemy  be  choked  with 
thorns. 

Salutation  to  thy  feet  and  to  the  heels  thereof,  and 
to  the  sinews. 

Salutation  to  the  soles  of  thy  feet,  and  to  the  toes 
thereof,  which  are  adorned  with  nails. 

O  Hanna,  mother  of  Mary,  let  me  ask  thee  one 
thing  :  How  long,  O  my  Lady,  shall  I  live  together 
with  those  who  hate  men  and  peace  and  love? 

9 


The  History  of  H anna 

Salutation  to  thy  stature  which  neither  diminisheth 
nor  shrinkcth. 

Salutation  to  thy  person,  and  to  the  going  forth  of 
thy  soul,  and  to  thy  body  of  flesh.  O  Hanna,  mother 
of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Christ,  Who  is  the  Firstfruit 
of  grace,  let  the  tongue  of  mine  enemy  be  tied  in  the 
time  of  temptation  and  trial  with  a  strong  chain,  and 
with  a  rough  shackle. 

Salutation  to  the  burial  of  thy  body  in  purple  in- 
destructible. 

Salutation  to  thy  grave  in  the  field  of  Yophoni, 
which  was  in  the  inheritance  of  thy  father.  O  Hanna, 
mother  of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Christ  the  Redeemer, 
let  no  one  send  me  to  my  death  in  this  world  [suddenly], 
but  let  me  wait  a  while  until  I  repent,  not,  I  say,  with 
the  multiplying  of  words  and  much  speech,  and  let  me 
sing  thy  praise  a  little  longer  and  not  keep  silence  con- 
cerning it.  O  Hanna,  make  my  heart  to  please  Him. 
If  mine  enemy  put  forth  branches,  and  if  he  increase 
in  his  stature,  then  let  the  sword  of  death  cut  down  his 
trunk.  Praise,  and  worship,  and  the  singing  of  psalms 
are  meet  for  Mary  and  for  Hanna,  the  mother  of  Mary, 
who  are  together  like  unto  the  two  precious  stones  onyx 
and  topaz.  May  mine  enemies  be  destroyed  and  left 
without  posterity,  even  as  the  children  of  Korah  were 
destroyed  (Numbers  xvi). 

Salutation  to  thee,  whose  name  is  sweet,  whose 
memorial  is  salted  with  the  salt  of  the  Godhead, 
Hanna,  thou  holy  woman,  thou  mother  of  Mary  whose 
King  is  in  the  heights. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Hanna,  thou  who  art  the 
morning,  and  to  thee,  O  Mary,  who  art  the  heaven 
that  gave  birth  unto  Christ,  the  Sun,  Who  burneth  up 
the  thorns  of  error. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  thou  stone  of  chalcedony, 
Hanna,  thou  brilliant  pearl,  wherefrom  went  forth 
Mary  the  Virgin,  who  gave  birth  to  the  Flame. 

10 


PLATE   V 


From  the  Life  of  Hantui,  Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4, 

Joachim  holding  a  bird.     The  birth  of  Mary  from  Hanna's  Right  Side 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Salutation  to  thee  with  the  salutation  of  the  mar- 
tyrs Basilides  and  Claudius. ^  O  Hanna,  may  thy  people, 
the  people  who  gather  together  in  thy  name,  receive 
the  fruit  of  righteousness. 

Salutation  to  thee.  When  I  heard  the  rumour  of 
thy  wisdom,  which  is  as  high  as  the  heavens,  my  mind 
said,  "  Let  Hanna  perform  the  saving  of  my  soul." 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  thou  innocent  woman  Hanna, 
thou  spiritual  dove,  from  whom  went  forth  Mary, 
who  bore  the  Word  of  the  Father. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Hanna,  thou  pure  one,  and 
unto  Mary,  the  thorn  bush,  who  gave  birth  to  Christ 
the  King,  Who  destroyeth  sin. 

Salutation  to  thee.  When  the  Angel  of  Death,  who 
plucketh  away,  cometh  unto  me,  O  Hanna,  separate  not 
thyself  from  me  ;  and  tear  thou  in  pieces  the  writing 
of  my  debt,  and  turn  lamentation  into  gladness. 

to  be  read  on  the  second  day  of  the  week 

In  the  Name  (Fol.  iia)  of  God  the  Father,  the 
Maker  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  Whose  Being  can- 
not be  comprehended  by  the  heart  of  mortal  man,  the 
Hidden  One  Whom  it  is  impossible  to  describe,  since 
He  was  the  Word  in  the  beginning,  but  He  Himself 
comprehended  His  own  Being  ;  and  in  the  Name  of 
God  the  Son,  Whose  Being  was  mingled  with  [that  of] 
His  Father  before  the  world  was  created.  Who  begot 
Him  in  a  mystery  before  the  universe  w^as  set  in  order. 
Who  is  equal  unto  God  the  Father,  and  of  like  position; 
and  IN  the  Name  of  God  the  Holy  Spirit,  Who 
sprang  into  being  before  (Fol.  lib)  the  fountains  of 
water  went  forth  from  the  womb  of  the  ocean,  and  be- 
fore the  light  went  forth  from  the  great  temple  in  the 
form  of  a  spark  to  keep  alive  all  created  beings  and 
things,  both  those  that  are  visible  and  those  that  are  in- 
visible :   To  Him  be  praise  and  thanksgiving  from  the 

1  They  are  commemorated  on  September  4  and  June  5  respectively. 

II 


The  History  of  Ha?t?id 

mouths  of  men  and  angels,  and  from  the  tongue  of 
every  created  being,  and  thing,  both  on  the  earth  and 
in  the  heavens,  without  silence  and  without  ceasing,  for 
ever  and  ever  !    Amen. 

Open  Thou,  O  my  Lord,  the  doors  of  my  tongue,  O 
Thou  Who  didst  open  the  doors  of  the  tongue  of  Ezra 
Sutu'el,^  so  that  he  might  declare  Thy  greatness,  and 
the  greatness  of  our  father  Adam,  whom  Thou  didst 
create  in  Thine  own  image  and  likeness,  and  didst  bring 
into  the  Garden  which  Thy  right  hand  did  plant,  (Fol. 
12a)  when  as  yet  the  earth  had  not  been  established. 
Now  I  have  the  desire  to  declare  the  majesty  of  that 
Garden,  and  of  the  earth,  the  earth  because  of  Hanna, 
and  the  Garden  (i.e.  Paradise)  because  of  our  Lady 
Mary,  and  the  fruit  thereof  because  of  her  Son,  our 
Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  to  Whom  be  praise  ! 
[May  the  prayer  of  Saint  Hanna  save  Gabra  Maryam 
for  ever  and  ever  !    Amen.]^ 

In  the  Name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of 
THE  Holy  Spirit,  One  God,  I  begin  [to  write]  by  the 
help  of  God,  and  by  the  gift  of  His  grace,  which  is  given 
unto  each  and  every  one  according  to  the  measure  of 
the  gift  of  Christ.  Now,  it  was  He  Who  ascended  [into 
heaven],  and  it  was  He  Who  descended  [into  hell],  and 
(Fol.  12b)  it  was  He  Who  lived  above  the  heavens  that 
He  might  fulfil  everything,  first  for  the  Prophets,  and 
secondly  for  the  Apostles,  and  thirdly  for  the  elders, 
and  then  grace  and  mercy  were  given  unto  us  through 
Hanna  and  lyakem  (Joachim),  who  brought  forth  fruit 
for  us,  that  is  to  say,  the  blessed,  and  pure,  and  holy 
woman  Mary,  like  unto  whom  there  is  none  in  the 
heavens  or  on  the  earth. 

^  Or  Sut'cl,  or  Suta'cl,  a  title  given  to  Ezra  the  Scribe,  who  edited 
the  Books  of  the  Old  Testament  for  the  Jews  who  had  been  carried  off 
into  captivity  in  Babylon  by  Nebuchadnezzar  II,  See  Ludolf,  Hist. 
Aeth.,  Frankfort,  1 591,  p.  421  (July  vi). 

2  This  is  a  prayer  by  the  owner  of  the  manuscript.  It  occurs  fre- 
quently in  the  manuscript  but  henceforward  will  be  omitted. 

12 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Incline  then  your  ears  unto  me  with  understanding, 
and  I  will  declare  unto  you  concerning  the  honourable 
estate  of  Hanna.  Now  she  was  the  daughter  of  noble 
parents  who  offered  up  offerings  before  God  Almighty, 
and  who  were  Levites  belonging  to  the  priesthood.  Her 
mother  was  [called]  Faustina,  who  was  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  and  who  before  seven  (Fol.  13a)  generations  of 
daughters  were  born  unto  her,  saw  her  descendants  in 
a  dream,  and  said,  "  The  seventh  daughter  of  my 
daughter  shall  bring  forth  the  blessed  moon,"  that  is 
to  say,  Hanna,  the  wife  of  Joachim.  Now  the  Taber- 
nacle of  Testimony  which  abode  with  our  fathers  in  the 
desert  God  commanded  Moses  to  make,  according  to 
the  pattern  that  He  showed  unto  him  when  He  said, 
"  The  Exalted  One  cannot  dwell  in  the  work  of  the 
hand  of  man.  Now  the  heavens  are  My  throne,  and  the 
earth  is  My  footstool ;  where  then  is  the  house  which 
ye  can  build  for  My  habitation  ?  saith  the  Lord."^  And 
the  Temple  that  was  builded  and  the  Tabernacle  that 
was  made  in  the  days  of  Moses  and  Solomon,  were  in- 
tended for  the  abiding  place  of  the  Tables  of  the  Law, 
on  the  sides  of  which  the  Law  (Fol.  1 3b)  and  the  Cove- 
nant, that  is  to  say,  the  Ten  Words,  had  been  written 
by  the  Fingers  of  God.  Now  the  cuttings  of  the  letters 
were  like  unto  the  footprints  of  a  man,  and  in  appear- 
ance they  were  like  unto  sapphire,  and  they  resembled 
the  strength  of  heaven.  In  these  (i.e.  the  Temple  and 
the  Tabernacle)  did  God  make  His  Feet  to  stand,  and 
He  hid  His  glory,  and  His  Voice  only  could  be  heard, 
even  as  He  spake  unto  Moses,  "  No  living  man  shall  see 
My  Face,  but  I  will  hold  converse  with  him  whom  I 
love  from  out  of  the  cloud." ^  Because  of  this  I  say 
that  the  Tabernacle  of  Testimony  is  Hanna,  who  made 
beautiful  her  works  on  the  twenty  pillars  thereof,^  on 

1  Isaiah  Ixvi,  I.  ^  Exodus  xxxiii,  20  ;   Leviticus  xvi,  2. 

^  "  And  the  twenty  pillars  thereof  and  their  twenty  sockets  " 
(Exodus  xxvii,  9,  10). 

13 


The  History  of  H anna 

the  right  hand  and  on  the  left,  on  the  west  and  on  the 
east,  and  the  things  that  were  to  come  forth  from  each 
of  these  were  to  exist  in  order  to  complete  (FoL  14a) 
the  work  that  was  to  be  wrought,  so  that  it  might  be  a 
memorial  from  generation  unto  generation,  and  for 
ever  and  ever. 

These  are  the  gardens  whence  sprang  Joachim  and 
Hanna.  In  the  double  [name]  of  Hanna  were  many 
nations  [included],  for  the  peoples  of  Israel,  in  their 
various  families  and  tribes,  were  linked  unto  her,  and 
honour  and  majesty  were  ascribed  unto  them  because 
of  her.  And  thus  was  it  with  Joachim  also,  for  all  the 
peoples  of  Israel,  in  their  various  families  and  tribes, 
were  reckoned  in  him  for  a  testimony  and  a  memorial, 
even  as  they  were  reckoned  in  the  courtyard  of  the 
Tabernacle  of  the  Sanctuary,  when  they  slaughtered 
the  bull  {or  ox)  and  sang  praises,  and  the  blood  [was 
sprinkled]  on  the  sides  of  the  courtyard,  and  when 
Aaron  and  Moses  went  into  the  Tabernacle  to  make 
atonement  (Fol.  14b)  for  the  sins  of  the  people. 

Blessings  be  upon  thee,  O  Hanna  !  AH  the  world 
shall  proclaim  thee  blessed  in  return  for  thy  sorrow  and 
tears  because  thou  hadst  neither  son  nor  daughter;  and 
thy  Son  shall  be  the  joy  wherewith  all  the  world  shall 
rejoice  in  thy  name.  So  therefore  thou  shalt  be  con- 
soled for  Merasa,  the  son  of  Talek,  who  died  in  the 
house  of  Dayek — now  he  was  thy  father's  brother — and 
at  the  time  of  his  death,  because  thou  hadst  no  chil- 
dren, thou  didst  multiply  weeping  for  him,  saying, 
"  Woe  is  me  !  Woe  is  me  !  I  have  neither  son  nor 
daughter.  He  who  hath  died  is  thine,  O  my  Father, 
and  I  greatly  desire  [O  dead  one,]  that  thou  shouldst 
come  back  to  me."  Then  straightway  the  dead  man 
spake  unto  thee,  saying,  "  Why  wecpest  thou  for  me  ? 
For  thou  shalt  (Fol.  15a)  give  birth  to  the  sun."  Now 
that  sun  is  the  Lady  Mary,  the  mother  of  the  Sun  of 
righteousness.   All  these  things  have  I  heard  from  the 

H 


PLATE   VI 


^X.^:'\^^(l  Z  f\ 


From  the  Life  of  Ifannci,  Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4. 


Saint    George    spearing   the    dragon.      Below    in    outline    is    a    part    of    a 

sketch  of  a  horse 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virg'ni  Mary 

angels,  and  [I  have  learnt  them  also]  from  the  ancient 
Scriptures. 

Rejoice  thou,  O  Hanna  !  For  all  the  world  shall  re- 
joice because  of  thee,  and  we  ourselves  rejoice  when  we 
hear  concerning  thee.  Thou  hast  given  fruit  unto  us, 
that  is  to  say,  Mary,  who  prayeth  for  life  for  all  the 
world.  This  blessed  woman  Hanna  was  God-fearing, 
and  she  shall  be  praised  in  the  assembly  of  the  people 
and  in  the  gates,  and  the  people  shall  give  thanks  unto 
Joachim  her  husband.  She  put  on  strength  and  beauty, 
and  she  rejoiced  during  the  days  of  her  life  to  the  end 
thereof.  Her  mouth  ate  not  the  grain  (i.e.  bread)  of 
idleness  (Fol.  15b).  She  judged  according  to  wisdom, 
she  made  manifest  the  Law,  and  she  stablished  rules  for 
her  tongue  ;  and  her  husband  Joachim  praised  her 
when  she  made  a  tunic  and  a  cloak  of  byssus  cloth  and 
purple  for  his  apparel.  And  moreover,  when  he  saw  in 
her  hand  the  garments  made  of  good  cloth  and  of  fine 
Canaanitish  linen,  which  she  gave  to  the  poor  and  the 
orphans,  she  became  to  her  husband  Joachim  a  crown 
of  honour  wherewith  he  was  well  pleased.  And  she  set 
up  seven  pillars,  and  she  killed  animals  and  made  ready 
a  splendid  feast,  and  the  blessed  woman  Hanna  sent  out 
[her]  servants  [into  the  highways],  and  they  said  [unto 
those  who  were  passing  by],  "  Come  ye,  and  eat  of  the 
bread  that  I  have  prepared  for  you,  that  is  to  say, 
bread  that  is  not  the  bread  of  wickedness  that  may  not 
be  (Fol.  i6a)  spoken  of  at  the  time  of  consecration. 
Come  ye,  and  drink  of  the  wine  that  I  have  poured  out 
for  you,  that  is  to  say,  the  wine  of  joy  and  gladness,  and 
not  the  wine  of  sugar  whereof  the  taste  is  bitter  in  the 
mouth  as  soon  as  its  season  is  past,  for  the  wine  that  I 
will  give  you  to  drink  shall  last  for  ever,  and  it  shall 
neither  come  to  an  end,  nor  cease  from  generation  unto 
generation." 

The  word  of  prophecy  which  was  uttered  by  Solo- 
mon was  fulfilled  in  Hanna,  for  Hanna  was  a  good  and 

15 


The  History  of  Hannd 

beautiful  woman.  And  our  Lord  saith  in  the  Gospel 
of  the  kingdom  :  "  A  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good 
fruit,  and  a  tree  shall  be  known  by  its  fruit. "^  And 
how  shall  a  good  tree  be  distinguished  from  a  bad  one? 
Of  the  good  tree  there  is  hope,  even  after  it  hath  be- 
come withered  and  decayed,  for  if  rain  fall  upon  it, 
(Fol.  1 6b)  and  the  winds  blow  upon  it,  that  tree  will 
clothe  itself  with  bark,  and  will  send  forth  shoots  that 
will  bear  fruit  from  its  branches  and  from  the  top 
thereof  ;  and  of  its  branches  some  will  bear  fruit  thirty- 
fold,  some  sixtyfold,  and  some  an  hundredfold.  And 
now  leave  the  tree  concerning  which  the  word  of  this 
[passage]  speaketh. 

And  again  He  spake  concerning  the  twelve  dry  bones, 
which  were  the  Twelve  Sons  of  Israel,  concerning 
whom  Ezekiel  prophesied  when  he  saw  that  they  were 
dry  bones.  And  straightway  God  said  unto  Ezekiel, ^ 
"  Prophesy  over  these  dry  bones."  And  he  prophesied 
over  them,  and  the  spirit  of  life  breathed  upon  them, 
and  threw  skin  upon  them,  until  at  length  they  rose  up 
because  of  (Fol.  17a)  the  blessed  woman  Hanna  ;  and 
when  Hanna  put  forth  a  bud  from  them,  life  came  unto 
them  through  her  giving  birth  to  Mary,  the  Lady  of 
us  all.  A  good  name  is  better  than  the  anointing  with 
oil  and  sweet  scents;^  and  one  child  is  better  than  thou- 
sands of  children. 

Now  these  words  did  the  prophet  speak  concerning 
Hanna.  Verily  she  is  the  best  and  most  lovely  of  all  the 
created  things  that  are  in  the  heavens  or  upon  the  earth, 
that  is  to  say,  our  Lady,  the  blessed  Mary,  the  Pearl  of 
great  renown.  She  was  in  the  belly  of  Adam,  which 
she  cleansed  from  its  impurity,  in  the  form  of  a  White 
Pearl.  And  from  him  she  was  delivered  to  Seth,  and 
from  Seth  to  Henos,  and  from  Henos  to  Abraham  ; 
that  Pearl  passed  from  (Fol.  17b)  body  to  body,  even  as 
saith  Solomon  the  wise  man,  "  It  shall  pass  into  the 

^  Matthew  vii,  17,  20.       ^  Y.ztV,  xxxvii,  l-io.        ^  Eccles.  vii,  I. 
16 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

souls  of  the  righteous,  and  it  shall  be  sent  from  the  holy 
ones  in  the  heavens  so  that  it  may  live  again."  And 
this  Pearl  passed  from  Abraham  unto  the  royal  father, 
David,  and  from  David  to  Hanna,  being  one  half  dust 
and  the  other  half  White  Pearl,  until  at  length  it  en- 
tered into  the  womb  of  Hanna  at  the  appointed  season 
and  after  long  delay. 

Now  from  the  time  when  Adam  was  born  from  the 
dust  of  the  earth,  although  it  neither  came  to  an  end 
nor  made  itself  manifest,  this  Pearl  did  not  enter  into 
the  womb  of  any  one  of  the  women  to  whom  a  name 
hath  been  given,  howsoever  many  they  may  have  been, 
from  Eve  unto  the  blessed  Hanna.  And  the  Pearl  ful- 
filled its  advent  into  her  (Fol.  i8a)  nine  years  after  her 
husband  Joachim  had  taken  her  to  wife,  and  it  did  so 
when  she  was  shedding  burning  tears  and  weeping 
abundantly  because  she  had  given  birth  neither  to  son 
nor  to  daughter.  And  all  the  people  of  Israel  had 
thrust  her  away  and  said  unto  her,  "  Thou  art  a  barren 
woman,  and  thou  hast  neither  offspring  nor  progeny  in 
Israel  that  can  stand  up  for  Joachim  and  his  house,  and 
thou  wilt  bring  his  house  to  an  end.  Get  thee  out  from 
among  us  from  this  time  forth.  Thou  shalt  depart 
from  our  city  and  shalt  not  dwell  with  us  ;  and  when 
it  is  our  duty  to  offer  up  offerings  we  will  have  neither 
lot  nor  part  with  thee,  for  we  have  a  law  that  those 
who  have  no  children,  whether  they  be  men  or  women, 
shall  be  driven  forth  from  the  house  of  sacrifice,  and  be 
made  to  take  their  stand  outside  (Fol.  i8b)  it  and  be 
separated  from  their  fellow-worshippers ;  therefore  get 
thee  out  from  our  congregation.  What  canst  thou  do 
for  us,  O  Hanna  ?  for  thy  womb  is  closed,  and  God  will 
not  open  it  for  thee."  In  this  wise  did  they  speak  to 
her  husband  Joachim  also. 

Then  Hanna  prayed  before  God,  and  her  soul  took 
refuge  with  Him,  saying,  "  O  Lord  God  of  Israel,  Thou 
God  of  our  fathers  Abraham,  and  Isaac,  and  Jacob, 

c  17 


The  History  of  Ha?md 

Who  didst  exist  before  the  world  and  Who  shalt  endure 
for  ever  and  for  ever,  Whose  Name  is  sweet  unto  every 
being,  (Fol.  19a)  to  Whom  nothing  is  impossible,Whose 
existence  never  had  any  beginning,  and  to  Whose  king- 
dom there  shall  never  be  an  end,  unto  Whom  every- 
thing belongeth,  and  before  Whom  everything  standeth 
revealed,  Who  killcst  and  makest  alive.  Who  shuttest  up 
and  makest  to  be  open,  open  Thou  for  me  my  womb, 
and  give  unto  me  a  fair  offspring  that  shall  be  well 
pleasing  unto  Thee,  and  it  shall  be  Thine,  and  I  will 
make  it  an  oblation  and  a  pure  offering,  according  to 
the  command  that  Thou  hast  given  [us].  Hearken  unto 
my  prayer,  and  unto  my  petition,  even  as  Thou  didst 
unto  the  prayer  of  Hanna,  the  wife  of  Elkanah,  the 
mother  of  Samuel.  If  Thou  wilt  not  hearken  unto  me, 
and  wilt  not  give  me  offspring,  then  destroy  me  and 
blot  me  out,  so  that  I  may  depart  unto  the  everlasting 
inheritance  of  my  fathers.  Of  what  benefit  is  it  to  me 
to  live  upon  the  earth,  if  I  am  [to  see]  evil  days,  and  be 
sorrowful  in  spirit,  whilst  all  the  [other]  daughters 
(Fol.  19b)  of  Israel,  who  can  bear  children  and  are  able 
to  be  glad  and  rejoice  in  them,  point  the  finger  of  scorn 
at  me  when  they  see  me  and  laugh  at  me  ?  Look,  O 
Lord,  and  behold  the  suffering  of  Thine  handmaiden 
Hanna,  who  is  cast  away  and  rejected  among  the 
daughters  of  Israel." 

And  Joachim  her  husband  also  spake  thus  :  and  keep- 
ing his  eyes  [fixed]  upon  the  ground  and  his  thoughts 
and  mind  directed  upwards  unto  the  heavens,  he  said, 
"  O  my  Lord,  Thou  Lord  God  of  Israel,  Who  knowest 
everything  before  it  cometh  to  pass,  and  Who  hast  good 
understanding  of  everything  before  men  can  declare  it 
unto  Thee,  why  hast  Thou  made  me  a  laughing-stock 
and  a  derision  unto  mine  enemies  ?  Look  Thou  upon 
my  suffering  and  upon  the  tribulations  of  my  soul,  O 
Thou  Who  hast  made  the  world  to  come  forth  (Fol. 
20a)  out  of  nothing,  and  hast  created  the  Sun  and  the 


PLATE   I'll 


^uf?A:  «p:^ia:cx^  A  ^ 


'^"^S^ 


Fz-o;)!  /Atf  Li/i;  of  Hannd,  Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4. 


The  Virgin  and    Child.     On   her    right   stands   Michael   and   on    her   left 
Gabriel ;  at  her  feet  lies  'Abba  Gabra  Maryam 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Moon  without  an  effort  of  thought !  Hearken  Thou 
unto  my  prayer,  and  incline  Thine  ear  unto  my  voice, 
and  Hghten  the  grief  of  my  heart,  O  Spirit  of  wisdom 
and  knowledge  which  is  in  Thee,  and  give  me  a  son 
whom  I  can  make  an  offering  unto  Thee,  and  make  me 
not  to  be  cast  away  from  among  all  Israel ;  for  Thou 
art  able  to  take  away  from  him  that  hath  much,  and  to 
give  increase  unto  him  that  hath  a  little  only." 

Then,  after  they  had  finished  their  prayer,  and  God 
had  seen  Hanna's  sorrow,  He  appeared  unto  her  that 
day  in  a  vision  of  the  night,  in  the  form  of  a  White 
Bird  which  came  down  from  heaven.  Now,  this  Bird 
had  its  being  (i.e.  existed)  in  the  days  of  old,  for  it  over- 
shadowed the  Cherubim  of  glory  ;  (Fol.  20b)  and  there 
was  the  hand  of  a  man  beneath  the  wing  thereof,  and  it 
held  in  it  the  cord  of  life.  Now  this  was  the  Spirit  of 
Life,  in  the  form  of  a  White  Bird,  and  it  took  up  its 
abode  in  the  person  of  Hanna,  and  became  incarnate  in 
her  womb,  at  the  time  when  the  Pearl  w^nt  forth  from 
the  loins  of  Joachim,  and  when,  according  to  the  ordi- 
nance of  carnal  union  Hanna  received  the  Pearl,  which 
was  the  Body  (or.  Flesh)  of  our  Lady  Mary.  Now  the 
White  Pearl  is  mentioned  because  of  its  purity,  and  the 
White  Bird  because  her  soul  [existed]  aforetime  [with] 
the  Ancient  of  Days,  and  it  was  with  Him  on  the  right 
hand  of  His  Father  ;  thus  the  White  Bird  and  the 
White  Pearl  are  alike  and  equal.  And  when  (Fol.  21a) 
it  (i.e.  the  Pearl)  took  up  its  abode  in  the  womb  of 
Hanna,  her  womb  was  moved  even  like  the  water  of  the 
sea,  for  it  was  unaccustomed  to  this  thing.  See  now  how 
greatly  blessed  our  Lady  Mary  is,  for  who  hath  been 
born  of  woman  [in  this  wise]  ?  God,  Who  alone  is, 
alone  created  her.  He  Who  alone  is  holy  alone  sancti- 
fied her.  He  Who  alone  is  decked  with  honour  alone 
decked  her  with  honour.  He  Who  alone  is  pure  alone 
made  her  pure. 

Who  among  men  is  like  unto  our  Lady  Mary  in  her 

19 


The  History  of  H anna 

virginity  ?  Among  men  there  is  none  to  be  found  who 
is  like  unto  our  Laeiy  Mary  in  her  heavenly  virginity  ; 
none  can  attain  unto  the  abundant  measure  of  her 
purity  before  God  and  His  angels,  (Fol.  21b)  and  none 
can  become  pure  in  mind  and  body  like  unto  our  Lady 
Mary.  And  her  soul  was  with  His  soul,  so  that  she 
might  cleave  closely  unto  the  knowledge  of  Him.  He 
guarded  her  and  treasured  her  more  than  silver  and 
gold,  and  esteemed  her  more  highly  than  glorious  ap- 
parel ;  and  He  prepared  her,  and  gave  her  unto  Hanna 
so  that  she  might  be  a  benefit  and  advantage  [unto  her], 
even  as  it  is  said,  "  It  is  better  to  bring  forth  no  chil- 
dren than  to  bear  those  that  are  without  profit." 
Blessed  be  God  Who  did  not  give  her  children  when 
her  husband  Joachim  [first]  took  her  from  the  house  of 
her  father  !  For  if  she  had  given  birth  unto  children 
speedily,  as  other  women  are  wont  to  do,  she  would 
then  have  brought  forth  children  that  were  without 
profit.  But  although  it  appeared  strange  in  the  lan- 
guage of  man,  God  shut  up  Hanna's  womb  until  His 
own  [good]  time,  (Fol.  22a)  and  He  opened  Hanna's 
womb  in  His  own  [good]  time,  so  that  she  might  give 
birth  unto  a  good,  and  noble,  and  beautiful  daughter, 
adorned  [with  virtue]  and  beloved  by  all.  In  the  place 
of  her  weeping  and  sorrow  Hanna  found  joy  ;  in  the 
place  of  her  lamentation  and  cries  of  grief  she  found 
gladness  without  measure  ;  in  the  place  of  her  con- 
tumely and  disgrace  she  found  majesty  and  honour. 
Our  Lady  Mary  rejoiced  in  her  Son  Jesus  Christ  our 
Redeemer,  and  Hanna  rejoiced  in  her  daughter,  our 
Lady  Mary,  the  Mother  of  our  Lord.  Forsake,  O 
Hanna,  the  joy  that  is  in  this  fleeting  world,  for  it 
speedily  passeth  away  ;  for  the  joy  that  befitteth  thee 
is  in  heaven,  and  it  never  cometh  to  an  end.  Now  Eve 
brought  forth  many  [children],  thirty  male  children 
and  (Fol.  22b)  thirty  female  children,  but  of  what  ad- 
vantage were  they  unto  her  ?   For  she  found  no  happi- 

20 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

ness  [in  them],  and  there  was  nothing  [in  them]  for  her 
except  suffering  and  sickness  and  the  breaking  of  bones. 
And  she  was  obliged  to  wait  for  thy  coming  [O  Hanna], 
and  she  bowed  down  before  thee  when  she  found  resur- 
rection in  the  Son  of  thy  daughter.  O  blessed  Hanna, 
who  can  praise  thee  overmuch  ?  For  of  all  the  women 
who  were  before  thee  and  who  have  been  after  thee 
Divine  Grace  hath  alighted  upon  none  save  thee.  Now 
Barka,  the  wife  of  Yared  (Jared),  who  gave  birth  to 
Enoch,  did  not  find  happiness  and  did  not  escape  death, 
for  her  bones  were  scattered  abroad  in  Sheol ;  but 
Enoch  did  escape  death  by  mounting  whilst  still  alive 
upon  a  whirlwind,  and  he  passed  to  the  Place  of  Life 
where  he  liveth  until  this  present.  And  why  (Fol.  23a) 
should  she  have  given  birth  to  one  who  performed  not 
an  act  of  graciousness  for  her  ?  For  he  dwelleth  in  the 
Place  of  Joy,  which  abideth  for  ever,  whilst  she  is  cry- 
ing out  and  groaning  in  a  place  of  misery  unto  this  day. 
;.^  Now  when  Hanna  had  given  birth  to  [her]  daughter, 
she  was  not  able  to  see  death  a  second  time,  for  her 
flesh  was  the  flesh  of  the  Godhead.  O  Hanna,  thou  art 
greater  than  Haykal,  who  gave  birth  to  Noah,  who  was 
saved  from  the  waters  of  the  Flood,  and  who  alone  left 
behind  him  a  plant  of  righteousness  which  shall  endure 
for  ever.  And  thou  art  very  much  more  honourable 
than  Edna,  the  mother  of  Abraham,  who  received  the 
seal  of  circumcision  ;  and  God  established  a  covenant 
between  Himself  and  the  seed  of  Abraham  for  ever. 
O  Hanna,  the  blessed  women  Sarah  and  Rebekah  could 
not  [together]  equal  the  value  of  one  of  the  nails  of  thy 
feet,  for  (Fol.  23b)  thou  art  the  Mother  of  the  Life, 
and  that  Life  was  Mary,  in  whom  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  rejoice,  and  in  whom  God  became  incarnate.  The 
persecution  that  thou  didst  suffer  was  as  vast  as  are  the 
heavens,  O  thou  blessed  woman  Hanna,  and  it  covered 
thee  even  as  a  cloud  covereth  the  face  of  the  earth. 
And  thou  didst  find  the  joy  that  was  boundless,  and 

21 


The  History  of  H anna 

that  was  as  great  as  the  persecution  that  thou  didst  en- 
dure because  of  thy  daughter  Mary,  our  mother. 

It  is  customary  for  the  word  of  God  to  be  hard  [to 
understand],  and  for  His  handiwork  to  be  marvellous ; 
and  He  first  of  all  maketh  trial  of  a  man.  As  a  man 
trieth  gold  in  the  fire,  even  so  doth  God  try  His  chosen 
ones  by  suffering  and  by  misery.  Now  Hanna  was  born 
in  sin,  and  in  sin  [she  ate  her]  food,  and  God  tried  her 
first  of  all  so  that  she  might  [at  length]  remove  oppres- 
sion from  (Fol.  24a)  all  the  tribes  of  Israel.  He  knew 
the  patience  of  her  mind  under  manifold  sorrow  and 
suffering,  and  He  gave  unto  her  a  beautiful  and  twofold 
reward,  which  no  man  can  take  away  from  her.  The 
Prophets  said,  "  Through  much  labour  and  suffering 
we  must  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."^  And 
this  prophecy  was  fulfilled  in  Hanna,  for  she  endured 
patiently  all  her  burden  and  all  the  heat  of  the  day  ; 
and  because  of  this  she  inherited  the  kingdom  of 
heaven.  Now  the  kingdom  of  heaven  of  which  I  speak 
is  the  Son  of  Hanna's  daughter  [Mary],  that  is  to  say, 
our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ.  For  many  have 
desired  to  receive  the  majesty  and  honour  of  Hanna  by 
calling  their  daughters  "  Mary,"  even  as  Jochebed 
called  her  first  daughter  by  that  name,  (Fol.  24b)  and 
He  (i.e.  the  Law)  called  her  ''  Miriam  "  (i.e.  Mary), 
which  was  unsuitable  for  her.  And  for  this  reason  she 
fell  sick  and  the  scab  of  leprosy  took  hold  upon  her,  and 
she  went  forth  outside  the  camp-  ;  for  in  the  Law  this 
is  said  in  the  passage  wherein  it  blameth  Moses.  Now 
I  say  that,  when  God  wished  to  destroy  Miriam  be- 
cause of  His  jealousy  for  His  Mother,  He  sought  out 
this  means  of  doing  it,  for  He  did  not  wish  her  to  be 
called  by  the  name  of  His  Mother.  And  many  of  those 
who  have  been  called  by  the  name  of  "  Mary  "  the 

^  Acts  xiv,  22. 

2  "  And  Miriam  was  shut  out  from  the  camp  seven  days  "  (Numbers 
xii,  13). 

22 


PLATE    VIII 


^  7» /» :  «S  *  A '^lilG^  ¥  -  f.rf,  7  ^ 


From  the  Life  of  Hannd,  Lady  Meux  MS.  So.  4. 


The  Crucifixion.  The  inscription  on  the  Cross  is  "Jesus  the 
Xazarene,  King  of  the  Jews/'  The  \'irgin  Mary  stands  on  the  right 
of  our  Lord  and  St.  John  on  the  left.  The  text  says  that  each 
"weeps."  This  is  probably  the  oldest  known  Ethiopian  picture  of 
the  Crucifixion 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

daughter  of  Hanna,  have  not  found  Hfe,  for  some  of 
them  have  become  possessed  of  devils,  and  some  have 
been  taken  in  adultery,  all  of  which  things  have  hap- 
pened through  the  jealousy  of  God  for  His  Mother. 
Therefore,  from  the  earliest  times,  God  hath  neither 
caused  nor  wished  that  other  women  should  be  (Fol. 
25a)  called  by  the  name  of  His  Mother. 

Hearken  now  unto  Moses,  who  when  he  spake  con- 
cerning jealousy  (i.e.  blasphemy)  for  a  name  said  unto 
the  house  of  Israel,  "  God  shall  take  for  you  from 
among  your  brethren  [one]  who  shall  be  like  unto  me. 
And  He  shall  call  his  name  '  Lord.'  "   And  this  spirit 
was  rooted  out  from  among  the  people  by  that  same 
prophet  who  magnified  His  command.    For  when  a 
certain  Egyptian  woman^  of  the  tribe  of  Dan  heard 
this,   she  gave  birth  to  a  son  and  called  his  name 
"  Lord." 2     Now  when  the  children  of   Israel  heard 
thereof,  they  murmured  against  her,  and  they  brought 
the  young  man  unto  Moses,  and  he  put  him  in  prison. 
And  Moses  went  to  enquire  [concerning  him]  before 
God,  and  he  took  his  (Fol.  25b)  shoes  from  off  his  feet, 
and  said,  "  Wilt  Thou  send  this  young  man,  whose 
name  is  '  Lord,'  to  be  a  prophet  in  my  days  ?    Or  wilt 
Thou  send  another  ?     I  enquire  of  Thee  concerning 
the  blaspheming  of  Thy  Name  ;   tell  me  what  I  shall 
do  with  this  young  man,  and  whether  I  shall  set  him 
before  Thee."    And  straightway  God  answered  and 
said  unto  Moses,  "  Am  not  I  HE  ?    But  Satan  shall  lie 
in  wait  for  Dan  from  his  roots  even  unto  his  branches — 
the  'Askorotawi,  (i.e.  the  Iscariot) — Whosoever  curseth 
the  Name  of  God  shall  surely  die,  and  they  shall  stone 
him  with  stones."    And  when  all  the  companies  of 
Israel  had  gathered  themselves  together  they  stoned 
that  young  man  with  stones  outside  the  camp,  and  he 

"^  I.e.  Shelomith,  the  daughter  of  Dibri,  of  the  tribe  of  Dan  ;   see 
the  whole  passage  in  Leviticus  xxiv,  10-23.     See  also  Deut.  xviii,  15. 
2  Our  author  naturally  adopts  the  Ethiopian  version  of  the  story, 

23 


The  History  of  Hannd 

died  an  evil  death.  And  I  say  likewise  that  whosoever 
curseth  the  Name  of  the  (Fol.  26a)  Virgin  Mary,  the 
blessed  woman,  the  daughter  of  Hanna  and  Joachim, 
the  Mother  of  Emmanuel  our  God,  shall  die  the  death, 
and  his  soul  and  his  body  shall  die,  and  he  shall  not  find 
happiness  for  ever  and  ever.    Amen. 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  THIRD   DAY  OF  THE  WEEK 

Therefore  come  ye  and  let  us  ascribe  praises  unto 
Hanna,  for  God  hath  ascribed  praise  unto  her,  and  in 
His  praise  of  her  He  took  up  His  abode  in  the  womb  of 
her  daughter.  Come  ye  and  let  us  magnify  Hanna,  for 
God  hath  magnified  her,  because  she  is  His  mother 
according  to  the  flesh.  Hanna  is  to  be  more  highly 
esteemed  than  gold  and  silver,  and  she  is  better  by  far 
than  the  Twelve  Gems,^  whether  considered  one  by 
one  or  all  together.  She  is  more  beautiful  than  the 
Sun,  and  the  Moon,  and  all  created  beings  and  things 
that  are  in  the  heavens  and  on  the  earth.  No  woman 
can  be  compared  with  her  for  beauty,  and  grace,  and 
majesty,  (Fol.  26b)  and  honour,  although  she  is  inferior 
to  our  Lady  Mary,  and  she  is  more  honourable  than 
every  other  woman  because  she  gave  birth  to  the  Virgin 
Mary.  Her  odour  is  more  fragrant  than  that  of  every 
kind  of  flower,  yea,  sweeter  than  the  smell  of  all  sweet- 
smelling  plants  and  of  galbanum,^  and  the  odour  of 
cinnamon  oil  and  cassia  cannot  be  compared  unto  her 
sweet  smell.  Inasmuch  as  she  was  pure  her  odour  was 
the  sweeter  when  the  blessed  Mary  was  in  her  womb, 
and  for  sweetness  nothing  could  be  like  unto  her  odour 
and  smell.  She  had  no  desire  to  adorn  herself  after  the 
manner  of  women,  for  she  said  in  her  heart  and  with 

^  See  Exodus  xxviii,  15-21,  a  sardius,  a  topaz,  a  carbuncle,  an  emer- 
ald, a  sapphire,  a  diamond,  a  ligure,  an  agate,  an  amethyst,  a  beryl, 
an  onyx,  and  a  jasper,  which  were  arranged  in  four  rows  in  the  "  breast- 
plate of  judgment." 

2  One  of  the  ingredients  of  the  holy  incense  mentioned  in  Exodus 
XXX,  34. 

24 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgm  Mary 

her  tongue,  "  My  adornment  and  my  joy,  both  during 
my  life  and  after  my  death,  for  my  soul  and  for  my 
body,  are  my  Lady,  the  blessed  Mary,  and  she  is  the 
anointing  of  my  face  ;  I  have  no  desire  (Fol.  27a)  to 
anoint  myself  after  the  manner  of  women,  for  my 
anointing  is  the  blessed  Mary."  And  straightway  she 
rejoiced  in  her  heart,  and  said,  "  Henceforth  I  will  re- 
joice and  be  glad,  for  my  weeping  hath  departed  from 
me  ;  and  all  mine  enemies  shall  be  confounded  and  put 
to  shame.  O  ye  daughters  of  Israel,  come  ye  and 
hearken  unto  my  voice,  and  behold  ye  me  with  my 
child  on  my  shoulders  sucking  milk  from  my  breasts  ! 
Behold,  I  am  the  woman  whom  in  times  past  ye  did 
drive  forth  from  your  houses  because  of  your  contempt 
for  me,  and  ye  lifted  up  your  voices  against  me.  Look 
ye  and  see  that  my  daughter  is  more  excellent  than  your 
daughters.  The  heavens,  and  the  earth,  and  all  the 
creations  of  men  and  of  angels,  are  not  worth  in  value 
one  hair  of  the  head  (Fol.  27b)  of  my  daughter."  After 
this  manner  did  Hanna  speak. 

And  again  Hanna  said,  "  Let  everything  that  be- 
longeth  unto  me  rejoice,  for  God  hath  opened  my 
womb,  and  my  husband  Joachim,  who  in  the  time  past 
hated  me,  now  loveth  me.  Whenever  I  saw  him  he 
would  speak  words  of  mockery  unto  me,  saying,  '  In- 
deed I  have  good  reason  to  rejoice,'  and  I  used  to  sit 
down,  and  my  limbs  melted  like  wax  ;  and  when  he 
held  his  peace  I  was  sorrowful  and  suffered  pain.  But 
from  this  time  onwards,  whether  he  shall  laugh  at  me, 
or  whether  he  shall  hold  his  peace,  my  mind  shall  not 
cease  from  rejoicing,  and  I  shall  not  suffer  sorrow 
through  him,  because  I  have  a  daughter  who  shall  be 
adorned  with  praise.  Come,  O  all  ye  peoples  of  the 
earth,  and  call  my  daughter  blessed  !  And  offer  ye 
salutations  unto  her  (Fol.  28a),  for  God  hath  given  her 
unto  me.  Who  among  all  women  hath  given  birth 
unto  such  a  child  as  I  have  done  ?    The  Prophets 

25 


The  History  of  H anna 

prophesied  concerning  me  and  my  daughter,  and  my 
father  Aaron,  the  son  of  Levi,  shall  be  praised  through 
my  daughter  for  ever  and  ever,  and  his  priesthood  shall 
never  be  done  away.  What  doth  it  profit  you  to  give 
birth  unto  sons  and  daughters  ?    For  the  kings  and  the 
royal  people  who  shall  be  begotten  by  you  shall  do  no 
manner  of  good  for  you,  and  although  they  roar  like 
lions  they  shall  neither  save  themselves,  nor  have  the 
power  to  save  others,  and  the  tigers  that  rend  and  tear 
cattle  and  sheep  shall  become  a  vain  thing  and  shall 
nevermore  appear  to  the  sight ;    but  the  Son  of  my 
daughter  hath  become  life  unto  Abraham  and  his  seed 
for  ever.    Concerning  my  daughter  Mary  the  Prophet 
(Fol.   28b)   spake  saying,   *  The  barren  woman  hath 
brought   forth   seven   children,   and   she  who  is    the 
mother  of  children  is  unable  to  bring  forth  [again].'  "^ 
Now  the  barren  woman  of  whom  he  spake  is  Hanna, 
who  gave  birth  to  one  daughter  instead  of  seven  sons  ; 
and  through  her  one  bringing  forth  she  shall  judge  and 
bring  into  subjection  those  who  shall  be  born  in  seven 
thousand  years.    They  shall  wait  for  her  coming,  and 
afterwards  they  shall  rejoice  because  of  her,  saying, 
"  Come  ye,  let  us  rejoice  and  be  glad  in  her  ;  come  ye, 
let  us  give  praise  and  sing  psalms  unto  her  !  "    Now 
this  woman  is  the  prophetess  Hanna.    She  was  the 
daughter   of   the   prophets,   and   her   own   daughter 
[Mary]  prophesied  and  said,  "  Behold,  from  hence- 
forth all  generations  shall  call  me  blessed,  for  He  that 
is  mighty  hath  done  great  things  for  me,  and  Holy  is 
His  Name.    He  hath  magnified  those  who  are  of  no 
account,  and  He  hath  filled  (Fol.  29a)  the  hungry  with 
His  blessing." 2   Now  Hanna  was  hungry  and  had  been 
brought  exceedingly  low  in  the  house  of  Israel,  and 
afterwards  she  became  filled,  and  being  satisfied  she 
was  moved  to  tenderness.    But  she  had  no  wish  either 
to  eat  or  to  drink  like  the  people  of  [this]  world,  when 
1  I  Samuel  ii,  5.  ^  Luke  i,  46-55. 

26 


PLATE  JX 


From  Lady  Meiix  MS.  No.  i_ 

The  Crucifixion   as  represented  in  the   XV^IIth  or  X\'IIIth 
century 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

she  had  given  birth  for  us  to  Mary,  the  door  of  joy 
and  gladness.  And  she  said,  "  The  prophecy  of  David 
my  father  hath  been  fulfilled  in  me  ;  and  I  am  filled 
(or,  satisfied)  with  the  sight  of  the  glory  of  God." 

Now  the  body  of  Mary  and  the  glorious  occupation 
thereof  by  God  may  be  interpreted  in  two  ways,  that 
is  to  say,  either  as  an  adoption  or  as  a  reward  ;  and  His 
Trinity  is  to  be  interpreted  as  a  hidden  thing  (or,  mys- 
tery). And  again  the  Prophet  saith,  "  Who  maketh 
the  barren  woman  to  dwell  in  His  house,  and  Who 
maketh  to  rejoice  the  mother  of  children."^  Verily 
Hanna  (Fol.  29b)  remained  [in  His]  house,  and  God 
tried  her  mind  in  every  way  possible  in  this  world,  until 
at  length  He  gave  her  the  power  to  bring  forth  for  Him 
His  mother  Mary  ;  and  Hanna  rejoiced  exceedingly 
in  embracing  her  daughter,  and  in  suckling  her  at  her 
breasts.  And  because  of  this  thing  when  the  children 
of  Israel  heard  that  Christ  was  born  of  the  daughter  of 
Hanna,  they  rose  up  against  Hanna  in  wrath,  and  spake 
unto  her  with  words  of  contempt,  saying,  "  Is  it  true 
that  thou  sayest.  My  daughter  hath  given  birth  to  God? 
Wouldst  thou  call  her  the  '  Mother  of  God  '  ?  Wouldst 
thou  that  all  the  people  of  the  world  should  bow  down 
at  thy  feet  ?  Why  thinkest  thou  in  this  wise  \  Why 
dost  thou  utter  falsehood  with  thy  tongue  ?  Put  away 
this  thought  from  thy  heart,  for  thou  art  a  woman  of 
low  estate,  and  thou  hast  not  goods,  (Fol.  30a)  or  pos- 
sessions, or  clean  raiment,  and  thou  imaginest  this  thing 
only  through  thine  exceeding  boldness."  This  was  the 
beginning  of  the  wickedness  of  the  Jews. 

Then  did  the  blessed  Hanna  say  unto  the  elders  of 
Israel,  "  Come  ye,  and  hearken  unto  me  with  [your] 
minds.  Is  there  anything  too  exalted  for  God  [to  do]? 
Do  not  the  Scriptures  say  that,  when  David  offered  up 
his  offerings  unto  God  with  a  sincere  spirit,  and  with  a 
lowly  and  innocent  heart,  God  did  not  reject  them  ? 

^  Psalm  cxiii,  9. 

27 


The  History  of  Han?td 

And  by  the  mouth  of  EHjah  the  Prophet  God  spake  and 
said,  '  Unto  whom  shall  I  look  except  to  him  who  is 
sincere  and  lowly,  who  hearkeneth  unto  My  voice,  and 
who  doeth  My  commandments  ?  Upon  such  shall  My 
spirit  rest,  for  I  am  lowly  and  humble  in  heart. '^  God 
desireth  (Fol.  30b)  not  the  rich  man,  neither  seeketh 
He  anything  from  the  great,  but  He  looketh  unto  those 
who  are  humble,  and  for  this  reason  His  compassion 
shall  not  be  remote  from  me."  Now  this  was  the 
woman  whom  the  Prophets  have  named  compassionate. 
"  Have  ye  never  heard  what  they  spake  aforetime 
concerning  my  daughter,  and  how  even  a  dead  man 
spake  before  you  and  said  that  she  should  be  born,  even 
before  I  had  conceived  her  ?  And  shall  I  restrain  you  ? 
Why  are  ye  envious  of  me  on  account  of  what  God  hath 
now  given  me  because  He  closed  my  womb  ?  And  He 
said  unto  me,  '  I  give  thee  this  daughter  instead  of 
thousands  of  children  '  ;  and  He  is  my  hope.  What 
have  ye  against  me,  seeing  that  I  have  not  committed 
an  offence  against  you?  For  (Fol.  31a)  I  have  done 
unto  you  no  injury  like  unto  that  which  ye  have  done 
unto  me.  When  I  was  living  shut  up  in  my  house 
during  the  period  wherein  my  womb  was  closed  ye 
hated  me,  and  ye  thrust  me  away  utterly  from  you  ; 
and  now  that  God  hath  opened  for  me  my  womb,  and 
I  have  given  birth  unto  a  daughter,  ye  still  reject  me. 

0  men  of  Israel,  how  long  will  ye  reject  me  ?  How 
long  must  I  bear  with  you  ?  How  long  must  I  flee  be- 
fore your  face  ?  Is  not  my  flesh  your  flesh  ?  Are  not 
my  bones  your  bones  ?    Why  do  ye  treat  me  as  though 

1  had  not  been  born  of  your  people  ?  My  tears  shall 
come  back  upon  you,  and  your  daughters  shall  be 
stricken  with  sorrow,  and  your  wives  shall  not  rejoice, 
for  their  wombs  shall  be  shut  up,  and  they  shall  not  be 
able  to  bring  forth  children.  They  shall  never  give 
birth  (Fol.  31b)  to  vigorous  sons  who  shall  be  helpful 

^  Compare  Exodus  xv,  26  ;   Isaiah  xi,  2  ;   xlii,  I  ;   Matthew  xi,  29. 
28 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

unto  the  city  and  country,  and  no  wise  and  under- 
standing king  shall  go  forth  from  among  you.  Is  there 
none  among  you  who  will  shew  mercy  ?  Why  treat  ye 
me  in  this  wise  ?  And  why  do  ye  heap  insult  upon  my 
daughter,  seeing  that  she  shall  conceive  and  bring  forth 
the  Christ  ?  How  great  is  the  oppression  wherewith  ye 
oppress  my  daughter  !  And  how  greatly  do  ye  disgrace 
her  !  I  could  wish  that  my  soul  had  gone  forth  before 
I  had  seen  the  sorrow,  and  the  weeping,  and  the  cry  of 
lamentation  in  the  highway  and  in  the  desert,  and  all 
the  persecution  that  shall  come  upon  her." 

Then  all  the  companies  of  Israel  said,  "  Wherefore 
doth  this  woman  abuse  us  ?  In  times  past  she  was  a 
barren  woman,  but  now  that  she  hath  gotten  a  daugh- 
ter she  doth  magnify  herself  over  us,  (Fol.  32a)  and 
doth  say.  My  daughter  shall  become  the  mother  of  the 
heavenly  King.  Come  now,  let  us  weave  a  plot  against 
her,  and  let  us  make  a  firm  compact  to  stone  both  her 
and  her  daughter  with  stones,  so  that  the  report  of 
these  things  may  not  wax  great  after  her  [death]."  But 
one  half  of  the  people  said,  "  What  have  we  to  do  with 
this  woman  ?  If  this  report  be  true  we  shall  know  it." 
And  all  Israel  rose  up  and  departed  unto  their  houses. 
Then  Hanna  went  into  her  house  praising  God,  and 
giving  thanks  unto  Him  because  she  had  found  grace 
and  favour  which  could  not  be  brought  into  judgment 
by  other  women.  No  women  are  to  be  praised  like  her 
for  noble  deeds  and  gracious  goodness  except  Judith 
and  Esther,  who  (Fol.  32b)  through  zeal  for  their 
houses  vanquished  strong  men  ;  the  one  slew  Holo- 
phernes,^  and  the  other  slew  Haman  by  hanging  upon 
the  gallows. 2  Now  these  women  must  not  be  praised 
equally  with  Hanna,  but  only  in  their  proper  measure, 
for  each  of  them  arose  in  her  appointed  time,  and  they 
only  came  into  being  when  Israel  was  without  a  king 
and  without  a  judge.  For  if  it  were  otherwise  why, 
1  Judith  (Chap,  viii,  ff.)-  ^  Esther  vii,  10. 

29 


The  History  of  H anna 

when  they  tell  the  story  and  declare  the  generations  of 
the  patriarchs  from  Adam  and  Eve  until  Joachim  and 
Hanna,  do  they  place  their  names  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Scriptures  for  a  testimony  ?  And  the  Prophet  said, 
"  The  stone  which  the  builders  rejected  hath  become 
the  head  of  the  corner  of  the  house  "^  ;  and  Hanna, 
who  was  rejected  by  the  nobles  and  the  shepherds,  hath 
become  the  corner  stone  (Fol.  33a)  of  the  house.  Now 
the  house  of  which  I  speak  is  the  Lady  Mary,  who  was 
the  house  of  God,  and  the  habitation  of  the  Most  High. 
For  she  became  a  mediator  between  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  and  through  her  all  the  world  became  united 
in  peace,  and  she  slew  hatred,  and  whatsoever  was  hate- 
ful was  destroyed,  and  she  wrought  peace  for  those  who 
were  afar  off,  and  salvation  for  those  who  were  near. 

But  let  us  return  to  the  beginning  of  the  matter. 
Now  whilst  Hanna  was  in  her  house  she  meditated  in 
her  heart,  and  said  concerning  her  daughter,  "  What 
can  I  do  for  this  my  daughter  ?  For  if  that  which  hath 
been  said  be  true,  and  if  God  shall  take  up  His  abode  in 
her  womb,  where  shall  I  hide  her  from  the  envy  of  all 
the  people  of  Israel  ?  (Fol.  33b)  When  they  hear  the 
sound  of  the  report  of  her  Son  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
[they  will  call  Him]  a  righteous  man  [only],  but  her 
they  will  persecute  and  drive  from  city  to  city,  and  as 
for  her  Son  they  will  crucify  Him  and  slay  Him  outside 
Jerusalem.  What  shall  I  do  for  my  daughter  ?  For  she 
is  my  only  child,  and  she  hath  neither  brother  nor 
sister.  It  grieveth  me  sorely,  and  I  suffer  pain  on  her 
account  when  I  think  that  she  shall  be  held  up  to  dis- 
grace by  Israel ;  nevertheless,  afterwards  there  shall 
blossom  the  peace  of  compassion  and  righteousness  for 
all  the  peoples  of  the  earth.  And  those  who  hate  her 
shall  become  hateful  creatures  unto  angels  and  men  ; 
moreover,  wild  beasts  shall  consume  them,  and  only 
Sheol  shall  rejoice  (Fol.  34a)  when  it  findeth  that  they 
^  Psalm  cxviii,  22, 

30 


PLATE  X 


>'.n'V:t:^^-''^fZ 


Saint  Gabra  Manfas  Kedus. 


From  the  Life  of  Hannd,  Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  4. 

Saint  Takla  Havmanot. 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

have  become  its  food.  But  those  who  love  my  daugh- 
ter, and  pay  honour  unto  her,  shall  be  beloved  and 
held  in  honour  by  every  one,  and  by  her  Son,  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  O  Lord  God  of  Israel,  judge  Thou  my 
cause,  and  deliver  me,  and  for  Thy  Word's  sake  make 
me  to  live  ;  but  let  my  life  be  remote  from  sinners. 
Thy  compassion  is  exceedingly  abundant,  O  make 
Thou  me  to  live  according  to  Thy  judgment.  Those 
who  persecute  me  and  inflict  pain  upon  me  are  many, 
but  I  have  never  withdraw^n  myself  from  Thy  testi- 
mony ;  O  God,  deliver  Thou  my  soul.  God  is  merciful 
and  righteous,  and  our  Lord  is  compassionate.  Thou, 
O  God,  art  the  guardian  of  children,  O  keep  Thou  in 
safety  my  child,  my  (Fol.  34b)  daughter,  and  I  will  give 
her  unto  Thee  as  a  pledge.  Be  Thou  her  defender,  and 
do  Thou  be  unto  her  a  helper  for  ever  and  ever.  And 
as  for  me,  my  soul  desireth  to  go  forth  [from  my  body] 
rather  than  to  look  upon  the  tears  and  the  sorrow  of 
mine  only  daughter.  What  can  I  do  for  her  ?  Thou 
knowest  how  feeble  I  am,  and  how  my  strength  hath 
become  worn  out.  O  God,  receive  my  soul  and  destroy 
me,  so  that  I  may  depart  unto  my  everlasting  fathers." 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Hanna  had  made  an 
end  of  this  her  prayer,  pain  laid  hold  upon  her,  and  she 
became  ill  for  a  short  space  of  time  ;  and  then  she  went 
to  her  rest  and  departed  this  life  on  the  eleventh  day 
of  the  month  Hadar  (November  7),  which  is  Tasrin,  the 
second  month  of  the  Hebrews,  and  the  November  of 
the  Romans,  at  the  sixth  [hour  of  the  day].  And  they 
buried  (Fol.  35a)  her  in  the  grave  of  her  fathers,  accord- 
ing to  the  law  of  the  children  of  Aaron,  with  Matat, 
her  father.  May  her  prayer  and  her  blessing  be  with 
her  servant  Gabra  Maryam  for  ever  and  ever  !   Amen. 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  FOURTH   DAY  OF  THE  WEEK 

Now  all  these  things  concerning  the  death  of  Hanna 
took  place  whilst  our  Lady  Mary  was  in  the  sanctuary. 

31 


The  History  of  Hannd 

And  they  told  her  that  Hannd  her  mother  had  died, 
and  when  our  Lady  Mary  heard  it,  she  wept  and  said, 
"  Woe  is  me  !  Woe  is  me  !  My  mother  hath  left  me 
a  sorrowful  woman.  Woe  is  me  !  Woe  is  me  !  O 
mother,  who  will  be  unto  me  like  thee  ?  Unto  whom 
hast  thou  left  me  ?  Woe  is  me,  O  my  mother  !  O 
daughters  of  Israel,  come  ye  and  weep  for  me  and  cast 
ye  me  not  away  ;  for  I  am  an  only  daughter,  (Fol.  35b) 
and  I  have  none  [to  take  her  place].  Come,  O  Jere- 
miah, and  make  a  lamentation  for  my  mother  Hanna, 
for  she  hath  forsaken  me,  and  I  am  alone  in  the  house 
of  brass.  Who  will  pour  water  upon  my  hands  ?  And 
the  tears  start  in  my  eyes." 

Now  whilst  our  Lady  Mary  was  weeping  in  this  wise 
she  remained  by  herself  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary, 
and  there  was  none  to  give  her  consolation.  And  it 
came  to  pass  that,  twelve  years  after  she  had  left  her 
mother's  breast,  Gabriel  came  and  said  unto  her,  "  Re- 
joice, O  thou  who  art  full  of  grace,  God  is  with  thee. 
Behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  and  bring  forth  a  Son,  and 
thou  shalt  call  His  Name  Jesus  ;  He  shall  be  great  and 
shall  be  called.  Son  of  God  Most  High."  Then  our 
Lady  Mary  said  unto  (Fol.  36a)  Gabriel,  "  Let  it  be 
unto  me  even  as  thou  sayest  "  ;  and  the  Angel  de- 
parted from  her.  Then  straightway  our  Lady  Mary 
said,  "  Can  it  be  true  what  my  mother  Hanna  spake 
unto  me  ?  For  she  said  unto  me,  '  The  Son  of  God 
shall  be  born  of  thee.'  " 

Now  God  made  her  a  handmaiden  unto  Him.  Verily 
the  Holy  Spirit  spake  by  the  mouth  of  Rebekah  when 
she  said,  "  The  elder  shall  serve  the  younger."^  And 
through  Him  Hanna  became  great  and  exceedingly 
honourable  beyond  all  gainsaying,  for  she  became 
blessed  above  all  women,  and  whosoever  believeth  on 
her  shall  be  blessed.  Blessed  is  he  that  shall  celebrate 
her  commemoration  with  incense  and  with  offering  [s]  ! 
^  Genesis  xxv,  23. 

32 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Blessed  is  he  that  shall  give  a  loaf  of  bread  or  a  cup  of 
water  for  the  sake  of  the  holy  woman  Hanna  !  He 
shall  receive  [in  return]  a  hundredfold,  (Fol.  36b)  to- 
gether with  salvation  of  body  in  this  world,  and  in  the 
world  that  is  to  come  a  fair  reward  and  the  life  that 
never  passeth  away.  And  her  Son,  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  saith,  "  Whosoever  receiveth  a  prophet  shall  re- 
ceive the  reward  of  a  prophet  ;  and  whosoever  receiv- 
eth a  righteous  man  shall  receive  the  reward  of  a  righte- 
ous man  and  the  wages  of  a  righteous  man  ;  and  who- 
soever shall  give  one  of  these  little  ones  a  cup  of  cold 
water  [to  drink]  in  My  Name,  or  in  the  name  of  a  dis- 
ciple of  Mine,  shall  not  lose  his  reward."^  For  this 
reason,  I  the  poor  and  miserable  man  say.  Celebrate  ye 
the  commemoration  of  the  blessed  Hanna,  so  far  as  [it 
lieth]  in  your  power,  and  forget  not  her  memorial. 
Pray  ye  unto  her,  with  ready  hearts,  and  she  will  pray 
for  you  unto  God,  the  Son  of  her  (Fol.  37a)  daughter, 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  ye  may  find  forgiveness  of 
your  sins.  And  celebrate  ye  joyfully,  from  the  bottom 
of  your  heart,  the  commemoration  of  Hanna  with 
greater  zeal,  and  glory,  and  honour,  than  the  com- 
memorations of  all  the  companies  of  those  who  have 
the  pre-eminence,  and  than  the  commemorations  of 
the  martyrs  and  righteous  men  who  have  endured  with 
patience  and  quietness  a  cruel  death  for  the  sake  of  her 
daughter's  Son,  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  dwell 
in  righteousness.  Can  ye  pay  honour  unto  the  Son 
without  paying  honour  unto  the  Father  ?  Can  ye  pay 
honour  unto  the  daughter  without  paying  honour  unto 
the  mother  ?  Honour  ye  then  the  mother,  even  as  ye 
honour  her  daughter,  and  celebrate  ye  a  festival  in  her 
honour.  And  neglect  ye  not  her  a  second  time,  even 
as  the  children  of  Israel  neglected  her  because  she  had 
not  gotten  a  child,  (Fol.  37b)  for  her  oppression  was 
remembered  before  God  because  of  those  who  had 
1  Matthew  X,  41,  42. 

D  33 


The  History  of  Ha7ind 

neglected  her.  Now  all  those  who  neglected  and  op- 
pressed the  blessed  woman  Hanna  shall  weep  when  they 
see  her  in  honour  and  in  majesty,  standing  at  the  right 
hand  of  her  blessed  daughter.  And  I,  the  poor  and 
miserable  one,  who  am  unworthy  to  call  myself  a  priest 
before  you,  say  that  when  a  brother  is  made  to  be  a  par- 
taker in  the  love  of  Hanna,  his  existence  is  more  beau- 
tiful than  that  of  all  those  who  are  called  [priests].  And 
the  Holy  Spirit  hath  proclaimed  concerning  me  that  I 
shall  be  a  witness  on  behalf  of  Hanna,  the  wife  of 
Joachim,  and  the  mother  of  the  mother  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  God  be  with  you,  O  ye  my  fathers  and 
brethren,  who  have  gathered  yourselves  together  here 
to  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  the  blessed  Hanna, 
(Fol.  38a),  for  ever  and  ever.   Amen. 

In  the  Name  of  the  Triune  God,  indivisible,  hid- 
den, INVISIBLE,  PERFECT,  IMPASSIBLE,  THE  RoOT  OF  THE 

Faith  that  cannot  be  cut  asunder,  the  treasury  of 
the  blessing  that  is  put  into  the  heart  of  those 

WHO  BELIEVE,  UNTO  WhOM  EACH  AND  EVERY  ONE  MUST 
BOW  DOWN  IN  ADORATION,  AND  EACH  AND  EVERY  ONE 
ASCRIBE   PRAISE,    AND    EACH    AND    EVERY    ONE    PRAY.      To 

Him  be  praise  on  earth  and  in  heaven,  in  the  sea  and 
in  the  abyss,  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen.  Praise,  saluta- 
tion, and  homage  be  unto  Hanna,  the  mother  of  the 
mother  of  Adonay,  who  made  to  rise  a  second  Sun. 
May  the  great  might  of  her  prayers  keep  us  and  all  the 
children  of  the  Church  from  all  evil  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen. 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  my  Lady  Hanna,  thou 
(Fol.  38b)  bride  of  the  heavenly  Father,  thou  habita- 
tion of  the  mother  of  the  Son  Who  hath  the  pre- 
eminence, thou  tabernacle  of  the  vivifying  Holy 
Spirit. 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  my  Lady  Hanna,  thou 
saviour  of  Adam,  the  sorrowful  one,  thou  foundation 
of  the  offering  of  Abel  who  was  slain. 

34 


PLATE   XI 


F/-.i)ji  //if  /,(/(•  of  Haniui,  Lady  Meiix  MS.  Xo.  4. 

'Abiina  Stephen.  'Abuna  'Abakarazun. 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  thou  Queen  of  all 
women. 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  my  Lady  Hanna,  thou 
goddess  of  Sara  and  Ketura.^ 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  my  Lady  Hanna,  thou 
life  of  the  happiness  of  Rebka  (Rebekah),  and  Sara,  and 
Rachel,  and  Leah. 

Glad  tidings  be  unto  thee,  O  my  Lady  Hanna,  thou 
majesty  of  the  Seraphim,  when  they  cry  out,  thou  who 
art  the  burnt-offering  at  the  offering  up  of  the  sacri- 
fice, thou  who  art  the  wings  of  the  Cherubim  at  the 
spreading  out  thereof,  thou  prophecy  of  the  Prophets 
(Fol.  39a)  when  light  burst  forth,  thou  preaching  of 
the  Apostles  at  the  time  of  morning.  O  my  Lady 
Hanna,  at  the  majesty  of  thy  sovereignty  there  is  ex- 
ultation [among]  our  mothers  Melka  (Milcah),  and 
Tersa  (Tirzah),  and  Hegla  (Hoglah),  and  Nuha  (Noah), 
and  Mahala  (Mahalah),  the  five  children  of  Salapad 
(Zelophehad).^  On  the  day  wherein  died  the  righteous 
woman  Hanna,  the  mother  of  our  Lady  Mary,  who 
gave  birth  to  our  Lord,  the  Word  of  the  Living  God, 
honour  and  purity  were  ascribed  unto  her  by  the  glori- 
ous beings  as  unto  the  ancient  fathers. 

Now  this  righteous  woman  [came]  from  the  city  of 
Jerusalem,  and  she  was  the  daughter  of  Matat,  the  son 
of  Levi,  the  son  of  Melka,  of  the  tribe  of  Levi.  Now 
Matat  had  three  daughters.  The  name  of  the  eldest 
was  Mary,  of  the  second  Sophia,  (Fol.  39b)  and  of  the 
third  Hanna  ;  Mary  married  and  gave  birth  to  Salome, 
and  she  it  was  who  became  the  helper  of  our  Lady 
Mary  when  she  brought  forth  our  Lord  and  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ.  And  Sophia  married  and  gave  birth  to 
Elisabeth,  the  mother  of  John  the  Baptist  ;  and  the 
holy  woman  Hanna  married  Joachim,  who  was  of  the 
tribe  of  Judah,  and  gave  birth  to  our  Lady  Mary.  Now 
Elisabeth,  and  Salome,  and  Hanna  were  the  daughters 
*  Genesis  xxv,  i,  2  Numbers  xxvi,  33. 

35 


The  History  of  Hanitd 

of  one  wife.  But  the  holy  woman  Hanna  became  more 
honourable  than  all  the  [other]  women  of  the  world, 
and  at  length  she  was  worthy  to  give  birth  to  the 
Mother  of  God  in  the  flesh,  and  it  is  well  known  that 
her  honour  and  righteousness  are  greater  than  the 
honour  and  righteousness  of  all  other  women. 

And  Hanna  was  a  barren  woman,  but  because  of  her 
exceedingly  great  strenuousness  in  fasting,  and  in 
prayer,  and  in  making  supplications  unto  God,  He  gave 
her  this  daughter  Mary  ;  and  God  having  seen  her 
sorrow  and  weeping  made  her  to  rejoice,  and  in  her  all 
the  sons  of  the  children  of  men  rejoiced  also.  For  this 
reason  it  is  meet  for  us  to  magnify  her,  and  henceforth 
we  must  not  revile  Hanna  as  did  Reuben,  who  said  unto 
Hanna  and  Joachim,  "  It  is  not  right  for  you  to  offer 
up  your  offerings  before  the  Lord  your  God,  because 
ye  have  no  seed  according  to  the  commandment  of  the 
Law."  O  how  these  words  (Fol.  40a)  would  break  the 
bones,  and  make  the  heart  to  burn,  and  set  the  bowels 
on  fire  !  And  when  Joachim  heard  them  he  was  ex- 
ceedingly sorrowful,  and  he  began  to  pray,  saying,  "  O 
my  Lord  and  God  and  King,  behold,  all  the  children  of 
Israel  have  seed  and  offspring,  but  I  have  none."  Then 
he  thought  of  the  righteous,  and  of  the  chosen  men, 
and  how  they  all  had  children  and  offspring,  and  how 
God  remembered  Abraham  when  he  was  an  hundred 
years  old,  and  how  he  begot  a  son  in  his  old  age,  and 
called  him  Isaac.  And  the  blessed  Joachim  also  remem- 
bered many  of  the  fathers,  and  Manoah,  [the  father]  of 
Samson,  and  Hanna,  the  wife  of  Elkanah.  But  he  did 
not  tell  this  sorrow  unto  his  wife,  nor  how  Reuben  had 
reviled  him  and  had  spoken  words  of  insult  unto  him. 
Then  he  withdrew  into  the  desert  and  went  afar  off, 
and  he  fasted  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  and  made 
supplication  unto  the  Lord  his  God,  saying,  "  No  food 
shall  enter  into  my  mouth  until  God  shall  look  upon 
my  sorrow  and  my  weeping,  and  shall  hear  my  petition. 

36 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

My  prayer  shall  be  my  food,  and  the  tears  that  go  forth 
from  mine  eyes  shall  be  my  prayer."  And  his  wife 
Hanna  began  to  weep  and  lament,  and  her  bosom 
heaved  with  sobs,  and  she  lifted  up  her  eyes  to  God  and 
[besought]  Him  to  give  her  a  child,  and  to  take  away 
her  reproach  from  her. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  the  festival  of  the 
Jews  had  come  (Fol.  40b),  a  certain  woman  from  among 
her  neighbours  came  and  said  unto  Hanna,  "  How  long 
wilt  thou  continue  to  be  sorrowful,  without  eating,  and 
without  drinking,  and  without  sleeping  ?  How  long 
wilt  thou  punish  thyself  with  this  severe  grief  ?  Since 
thou  hast  declared  it  [unto  God],  let  Him  make  thee  to 
forget  it.  Behold,  the  appointed  festival  hath  come, 
the  day  wherein  six  hundred  thousand  of  [the  children 
of]  Israel  went  out  from  Egypt  on  foot  ;  rejoice  thou, 
therefore,  together  with  those  women  who  are  like  unto 
thee,  and  who  also  rejoice.  And  behold,  I  have  brought 
rich  apparel  unto  thee,  take  it,  and  put  it  on,  and  adorn 
thyself  therewith,  for  thou  art  of  a  noble  family,  and  it 
is  meet  that  thou  shouldst  array  thyself  in  this  glorious 
apparel." 

Then  Hanna  answered  and  said  unto  her,  "  O  my 
sister,  leave  me  to  weep  (Fol.  41a)  over  my  misery  until 
God  shall  look  upon  my  sorrow,  for  unto  me  shall  be 
sorrow,  and  grief,  and  bitter  tears  ;  and  I  will  not  put 
off  my  garb  of  mourning  until  the  day  of  my  death.  I 
will  not  array  myself  [in  fine  apparel]  like  a  woman  who 
is  joyful  of  heart.  Unto  what  am  I  to  be  likened  ?  Is 
it  not  to  a  tree  that  hath  neither  leaves  nor  fruit  ?  Am 
I  not  like  unto  one  who  hath  been  killed  and  destroyed 
in  the  city  ?  I  am  sad  of  soul  and  sorrowful  of  heart, 
and  I  will  not  put  on  this  apparel  concerning  which  I 
know  not  whence  it  hath  come.  It  may  have  been 
stolen,  or  it  may  be  the  hire  of  fornication,  concerning 
which  God  gave  a  law  unto  Moses,  and  said  unto  him  : 
Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel,  saying, '  Go  not  unto 

37 


The  History  of  H anna 

the  wicked  woman,  (Fol.  41b)  and  commit  not  fornica- 
tion,' et  cetera.  I  will  not  put  on  [this  apparel],  for  it 
may  be  the  hire  of  the  fornicators." 

Then  the  woman  answered  her  with  wrath  and  anger, 
and  with  her  heart  burning  like  fire  she  said  unto 
Hanna,  "  In  that  God  shut  up  thy  womb,  and  did  with- 
hold from  thee  the  fruit  of  blessing,  and  did  not  give 
unto  thee  children  like  all  the  daughters  of  Israel,  He 
did  well,  yea,  verily,  He  did  rightly.  I  was  wishing  to 
do  good  unto  thee,  and  thou  didst  reward  me  with 
abuse,  and  didst  bring  upon  me  words  of  reviling." 
And  when  the  blessed  woman  Hanna  heard  these  words 
she  sorrowed  with  a  great  sorrow. 

Then  Hanna  rose  up  quickly,  and  put  off  her  wretched 
apparel,  and  she  washed  herself,  and  beautified  herself, 
(Fol.  42a)  and  adorned  herself  ;  then  she  put  on  fine 
apparel,  and  went  into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  of 
God  Almighty  to  pray.  And  as  she  was  going  along  the 
road  she  saw  a  high  tree,  wherein  were  certain  birds 
with  their  young  ones,  and  Hanna  said,  "  God  hath 
blessed  them,  and  hath  multiplied  them  exceedingly. 
Hearken  Thou  unto  the  prayer  of  me,  Thine  hand- 
maiden, and  grant  unto  me  the  petition  of  my  lips,  and 
bless  me,  O  Thou  Who  didst  bless  the  womb  of  Sarah, 
and  didst  give  unto  her  a  child  in  her  old  age."  And 
Hanna  lifted  up  her  eyes  to  heaven,  and  she  began  to 
weep  and  to  say  unto  God,  "  Woe  is  me  !  Woe  is  me  ! 
Unto  what  can  I  be  compared  ?  (Fol.  42b)  Can  I  be 
likened  unto  a  bird  ?  [nay,  for]  the  birds  have  young 
ones.  Woe  then  is  me  !  Unto  what  can  I  be  com- 
pared ? — unto  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  forest  ?  [nay, 
for]  they  also  have  young  ones." 

And  whilst  she  was  weeping  and  lamenting  in  this 
wise,  and  was  looking  up  into  heaven,  behold,  the  Angel 
of  God  came  down  from  heaven  to  the  place  where  she 
was  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary.  Then  he  stood  up 
before  her,  and  said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  God  hath 

38 


PLATE  XII 


From  the  Life  of  Hanna,  Ledy  Meux  MS.  Xo.  4. 


'Abuna  Mazgaba  Salasha. 


'Abuna  Samuel. 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgm  Mary 

heard  thy  petition,  and  hath  received  thy  prayer,  and 
lo,  thou  shalt  conceive  and  bear  a  child."  And  the 
blessed  v\^oman  said  unto  Gabriel,  who  was  the  teller  of 
the  joyful  news  and  the  bearer  of  the  glad  tidings,  "  O 
my  Lord  and  God,  if  I  get  either  a  son  or  a  daughter, 
I  will  give  the  child  to  be  a  servant  unto  God,  and  I  will 
dedicate  him  (Fol.  43a)  unto  the  house  of  His  sanctuary, 
and  he  shall  not  depart  therefrom  all  the  days  of  his 
life."  Then  the  Angel,  who  was  one  of  the  Seven  Arch- 
angels, said  unto  her,  '^  Behold,  Joachim  hath  come 
from  the  field  (or,  desert)  ;  tell  him  what  I  have  said 
unto  thee.  And  let  him  take  a  kid  of  the  goats  and  a 
young  lamb,  and  carry  them  into  the  Tabernacle,  and 
offer  them  up  as  offerings  unto  God."  And  the  Angel 
went  to  Joachim  also,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Hail  to  thee! 
Behold,  God  hath  heard  thy  petition  and  received  thy 
offering.  Thy  wife  Hanna  shall  conceive,  and  shall  bear 
unto  thee  a  lovely  and  beautiful  daughter,  whose  Son 
shall  rule  over  the  house  of  Jacob  for  ever  (Fol.  43b), 
and  His  kingdom  shall  have  no  end."  Now  when 
Joachim  had  heard  him,  he  rejoiced  and  gave  thanks 
unto  God,  saying,  "  Blessed  be  the  Lord  God  of  Israel, 
Who  hath  not  rejected  my  petition  but  hath  received 
my  prayer,  even  as  it  saith  in  the  Psalm, '  Blessed  is  the 
man  unto  whom  God  hath  not  imputed  his  iniquity.'^ 
Verily  not  untrue  is  the  word  of  the  Prophet,  who  said, 
'  God  is  nigh  unto  those  that  are  meek  of  heart,  and 
He  helpeth  those  who  are  lowly  in  spirit.'  "^ 

Then  Joachim  cried  out  unto  the  shepherds  of  his 
sheep  and  herds,  and  said  unto  them,  "  Bring  me  two 
sheep  as  an  offering  for  God  "  ;  and  they  brought  unto 
him  oxen  (Fol.  44a)  and  sheep,  and  he  made  an  offering 
unto  God  ;  then  he  came  into  his  house  and  made  a 
feast  for  the  poor  and  needy  and  for  all  his  kinsfolk. 
And  on  the  third  day  the  noble  Joachim  meditated  in 
his  heart,  and  said,  "  If  it  indeed  be  true  what  the 
^  Psalm  xxxii,  2,  2  Psalm  xxxiv,  18. 

39 


The  History  of  Hannd 

angel  said  in  the  vision  I  will  again  offer  up  offerings 
unto  God,  a  ram  without  spot  and  a  calf  without 
blemish,  and  I  will  bring  them  unto  the  Tabernacle 
that  [the  priests]  may  offer  them  up,  and  then  I  shall 
see  my  face  in  the  crown  of  the  house  of  the  sanctuary." 
Now  there  was  a  crown  made  of  precious  stones  and 
[mother-of-]  pearl  which  was  set  in  the  altar,  and  when 
one  of  the  children  of  Israel  brought  (Fol.  44b)  offer- 
ings, whether  obligatory,  or  free  will,  or  because  sin  had 
appeared  in  him,  and  offered  them  up,  if  God  accepted 
his  offerings  from  him,  the  face  of  him  that  had  brought 
the  offering  used  to  appear  in  the  crown  of  mother-of- 
pearl  as  in  a  mirror.  And  if  God  had  not  accepted  his 
offerings,  his  face  did  not  appear  in  the  crown  that  was 
made  of  mother-of-pearl.  Then  straightway  the  blessed 
Joachim  took  sheep  and  oxen,  and  offered  [them]  up  be- 
fore God,  saying,  "  If  Thou  art  pleased,  O  God,  with 
the  offering  which  I  have  offered  up  on  Thine  altar,  let 
Thy  Face  appear  in  the  crown  of  mother-of-pearl." 
And  forthwith  the  blessed  Joachim  saw  the  Face  of 
God  in  (Fol.  45a)  the  crown,  and  he  said,  "  Behold,  I 
know  that  God  hath  had  mercy  upon  me,  and  hath 
accepted  me,  and  that  the  vision  which  He  shewed  me 
is  true."  Then  Joachim  returned  unto  his  house,  and 
with  joy  and  gladness  he  praised  God,  unto  Whom 
glory  and  praise  are  meet  for  ever  and  ever.    Amen. 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  FIFTH  DAY  OF  THE  WEEK 

We  will  now  make  known  [unto  you]  the  statement 
of  the  prophets  who  are  witnesses  that  God  said  unto 
our  father  Adam,  "  I  myself  will  come  in  five  days  and 
half  a  day,  and  I  shall  be  born  of  thy  daughter  ;  then 
I  will  have  mercy  upon  thee  and  show  compassion  unto 
thee  with  the  abundance  of  My  mercy."^  He  made  the 

1  The  explanation  of  this  passage  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Adam  and 
Eve  (Malan's  translation,  Chap,  ii,  p.  i  ff.)  :  "  God  said  unto  Adam  : 
'  I  have  ordained  on  this  earth  days  and  years,  and  thou  and  thy  seed 

40 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

five  thousand  years  to  be  as  five  days,  and  He  made  the 
five  hundred  years  to  be  as  six  hours  of  a  day.  And 
(FoL  45b)  moreover,  our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus 
Christ  saith  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant,  "  In  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  years,  at  the  end  thereof,  at  Pentecost 
and  Easter,  the  coming  of  My  Father  shall  take  place  "  ; 
that  is  to  say.  He  [considered]  one  hundred  to  be  as  one 
thousand,  and  five  hundred  as  five.  And  Isayayas 
(Isaiah  ?)  said,  "  He  shall  dwell  in  the  world  five  hun- 
dred and  forty-five  days."  Behold,  we  have  established 
[our]  testimony  from  the  Holy  Scriptures,  both  Old 
and  New,  as  concerning  the  coming  of  our  Lord  unto 
the  Lady  Hanna. 

Now  when  the  holy  woman  Hanna  had  conceived, 
she  dwelt  and  gave  thanks  unto  God  for  nine  months  ; 
and  it  came  to  pass  that,  when  nine  months  [had  passed 
over]  her,  she  gave  birth  unto  a  daughter.  Then 
Hanna  said  unto  the  midwife,  "  To  what  have  I  given 
birth  ?  "  (Fol.  46a)  and  the  midwife  said  unto  her, 
"  Thou  hast  given  birth  unto  a  daughter."  And  Hanna 
said,  "  My  soul  doth  magnify  God  "  ;  and  she  called 
the  name  of  the  child  "  Mary."  And  when  forty  days 
had  passed,  Hanna  purified  herself,  and  put  on  her 
apparel,  and  suckled  the  child.  Now  she  was  the  "only" 
child  of  her  mother ;  the  Book  calleth  Mary  the  "only" 
child,  just  as  aforetime  it  called  Hanna,  her  mother,  the 

shall  dwell  and  walk  in  it  until  the  days  and  years  are  fulfilled  ;  when 
I  shall  send  the  Word  that  created  thee,  and  against  which  thou  hast 
transgressed,  the  Word  that  made  thee  come  out  of  the  garden,  and 
that  raised  thee  when  thou  wast  fallen.  Yea,  the  Word  that  will  again 
save  thee  when  the  five  days  and  a  half  are  fulfilled.'  But  when  Adam 
heard  these  words  from  God,  and  [of]  the  great  five  days  and  a  half, 
he  did  not  understand  the  meaning  of  them.  For  Adam  was  thinking 
that  there  would  be  but  five  days  and  a  half  for  him,  to  the  end  of  the 
world.  And  Adam  wept,  and  prayed  God  to  explain  it  to  him.  Then 
God  in  His  mercy  for  Adam  [who  was  made  after]  His  own  image  and 
similitude,  explained  to  him,  that  those  were  five  thousand  and  five 
hundred  years ;  and  how  One  would  then  come  and  save  him  and  his 
seed."    (See  also  Trumpp,  Dcr  KampJ  Adams,  p.  5.) 

41 


The  History  of  H anna 

"  only  "  child.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  six 
months  were  ended  to  our  Lady  Mary,  she  walked  five 
steps  on  her  feet,  and  then  she  returned  unto  her 
mother's  bosom.  Then  Hannd  said,  "As  God  Almighty 
livcth  I  will  not  let  this  child  walk  about  (Fol.  46b)  on 
the  ground  until  I  have  taken  her  into  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary  of  God."  And  she  made  a  habitation  (or, 
chamber)  for  Mary  to  live  in  alone,  and  she  made  her 
to  dwell  therein  until  she  was  one  year  old. 

Then  did  Joachim  make  a  great  feast  in  honour  of 
Mary,  and  he  invited  the  priests,  and  the  princes  of 
Israel,  and  their  nobles,  and  the  elders  of  the  people, 
and  he  made  ready  a  feast,  and  satisfied  them  all.  And 
her  father  brought  Mary  unto  the  priests,  and  they  all 
blessed  her,  saying,  "  May  God  our  God,  Who  hath  the 
dominion  over  all  things,  the  God  of  our  fathers  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob,  bless  this  child,  and  grant  unto 
her  fair  offspring  (Fol.  47a)  who  shall  set  us  free  from 
destruction  ;  and  may  He  grant  unto  her  power  and 
strength,  and  magnify  her  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen." 
And  all  the  people  said,  "  Amen,  and  Amen."  Then 
Joachim  took  her  unto  all  the  chief  priests  and  elders 
of  the  people,  and  they  all  blessed  her,  each  one  accord- 
ing to  his  rank  and  birth,  and  said  unto  her,  "  May  God, 
the  Sustainer  of  the  world,  the  God  of  Abraham,  the 
God  of  Isaac,  and  the  God  of  Jacob,  Who  dwelleth  in 
the  heights,  bless  her  outwardly  and  inwardly,  both  her 
soul  and  her  body."  And  when  they  had  blessed  her 
in  this  wise,  her  mother  took  her  and  brought  her  into 
the  habitation  which  she  had  built  for  her.  Then 
Hanna  (Fol.  47b)  said,  "  I  praise  God  Almighty  with 
the  praises  of  the  saints,  I  bless  Him,  I  laud  Him,  I  pro- 
claim Him  holy,  I  give  thanks  unto  Him,  I  exalt  Him, 
I  magnify  Him,  I  love  Him,  and  I  offer  gratitude  unto 
Him,  because  He  hath  removed  the  word  of  reproach 
and  the  word  of  shame  in  respect  of  me  from  the 
nation  of  Israel.    For  they  said  unto  me  :  '  We  will  not 

42 


PLATE  Xlir 


liom  llw  Life  of  Hannd,  Lady  Mcux  MS.  Xo.  4. 

'Abuna  Ezra.  'Abuna  'Amda  Salashc. 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgi?i  Mary 

receive  thine  offering  and  oblation  because  thou  hast 
neither  seed  nor  offspring  of  blessing.'  Therefore  I  sat 
down  for  forty  days  and  forty  nights  and  ate  nothing 
whatsoever,  and  I  cast  away  care  for  my  apparel.  And 
my  heart  was  full  of  grief  and  sorrow,  and  I  took  no 
pleasure  in  my  life.  All  these  things  came  upon  me 
through  the  people  of  my  nation,  at  the  hands  of  them- 
selves and  their  women,  yea,  even  at  the  hands  of  maid- 
servants and  menservants,  (Fol.  48a)  who  reviled  me  ; 
and  my  meat  and  my  drink  became  bitter  unto  me. 
And  my  brother,  and  my  sister,  and  my  father,  and  my 
mother,  and  my  kinsfolk,  persecuted  me,  and  reproached 
me,  and  offered  me  no  comfort.  The  tribe  of  Reuben, 
with  its  various  peoples  and  women,  according  to  their 
families  (or,  houses),  and  all  the  tribes  of  Israel,  even 
unto  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  and  each  and  every  one  of 
their  women  on  her  own  behalf,  reviled  me  without 
ceasing,  and  they  stood  up  together  and  heaped  insults 
upon  me.  Praise  be  unto  God  'Adonay.  Praise  be 
unto  God  Saba'ot  (i.e.  God  of  Hosts).  Praise  be  unto 
God  'Eloha. 

"  O  praise  God  in  His  holiness. 

Praise  Him  in  the  strength  of  His  might. 

Praise  Him  (Fol.  48b)  in  His  power. 

Praise  Him  according  to  the  abundance  of  His 
greatness. 

Praise  Him  with  the  sound  of  the  horn. 

Praise  Him  with  the  singing  of  psalms  and  the  harp. 

Praise  Him  with  the  drum  and  with  gladness. 

Praise  Him  with  the  strings  and  pipes. 

Praise  Him  with  cymbals  of  sweet  sound. 

Let  every  soul  praise  God  Almighty  (Psalm  cl). 
Through  me  Moses  and  Joshua  shall  rejoice  and  be 
glad.  Through  my  giving  birth  to  a  child,  David,  the 
son  of  Jesse,  shall  rejoice.  And  through  this  I  shall  not 
be  a  stranger  and  a  sojourner.  Henceforth  it  is  meet 
for  me  to  say,  My  ascent  is  in  my  mountain.    Praise 

43 


The  History  of  Hannd 

be  unto  Thcc,  O  Lord,  my  God,  Who  hast  forgiven 
her  transgression.  Praise  be  unto  Thee,  O  Lord,  my 
God,  Who  hast  (Fol.  49a)  become  a  doer  of  good  unto 
me,  for  Thou  hast  holpen  my  misery." 

And  whilst  Hanna  was  praying  in  this  wise,  she  saw 
the  Ten  Archangels  who  were  singing  psalms  and 
hymns  in  sweet  and  beautiful  tones,  and  each  of  them 
overshadowed  her  with  his  six  fiery  wings  ;  and  these 
were  they :  Michael,  Gabriel,  the  Seraphim  and  Cheru- 
bim, Raphael,  Uriel,  Salathiel,  Sakuel,  Ramuel,  Sada- 
kyal,  and  Ananyal ;  and  they  were  veiled  in  a  flame  of 
fire.  And  Hanna  heard  them  saying,  "  Praise  be  unto 
thee,  O  Mary,  thou  bride  of  the  Father,  thou  blessed 
woman  who  art  most  holy. 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  thou  Mistress  of  the  assemblies 
of  the  Christians. 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  thou  Mistress  of  the  happiness  of 
the  Nazarenes  (Fol.  49b). 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  for  thou  art  the  key  of  the  king- 
dom of  heaven. 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  for  thou  art  Mistress  of  the  free- 
dom of  the  sons  of  Adam. 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  for  thou  hast  been  held  worthy 
to  become  a  mediator  between  the  denizens  of  heaven 
and  the  beings  of  earth. 

"  Rejoice,  O  Mary,  for  thou  shalt  become  the 
Mother  of  the  Creator. 

"  And  it  is  meet  that  thou  also,  O  Hanna,  shouldst 
be  called  blessed  ;  long  didst  thou  remain  a  barren 
woman,  but  when  thou  didst  bring  forth  thou  didst 
give  birth  unto  the  Mistress  of  celestial  and  terrestrial 
beings. 

"  Blessed  art  thou,  O  Hanna,  for  thou  hast  become 
the  mother  of  God. 

"  Blessed  art  thou,  O  Hanna,  for  (Fol.  50a)  thou  hast 
become  the  goddess  of  David  and  of  all  the  kings  of 
Israel. 

44 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgi?2  Mary 

"  Blessed  art  thou,  O  Hanna,  for  we  have  been  bid- 
den to  receive  thee  into  the  congregation  of  heaven." 

And  having  said  these  things  the  Archangels  were 
hidden  from  her.  And  when  Hanna  had  heard  these 
words  of  mystery  concerning  what  should  come  to  pass, 
she  wondered  and  gave  praise  unto  God  ;  and  she  mar- 
velled within  herself  exceedingly.  Praise  be  unto  God 
Who  graciously  bestowed  upon  the  blessed  woman 
Hanna  more  honour  and  exaltation  than  upon  all  the 
daughters  of  Israel.    May  her  prayer,  etc. 

Now  HEARKEN,  O  MY  CHRISTIAN  BRETHREN,  UntO  the 

Story  which  we  have  found  after  much  (Fol.  50b) 
searching.  There  was  a  certain  God-fearing  man  who 
prayed  without  ceasing,  and  he  kept  vigil  both  by  day 
and  by  night  like  the  angels,  and  he  celebrated  the  fes- 
tivals of  the  angels  and  of  holy  men,  and  the  festivals 
of  the  martyrs  and  of  those  who  fought  for  the  Faith, 
and  the  festivals  of  the  virgins  and  monks,  and  he  was 
wont  to  see  mysteries.  And  he  spake  thus  :  I  saw 
Joachim  and  Hanna  arrayed  in  shining  apparel,  and 
with  crowns  of  light  upon  their  heads,  and  they  were 
standing  before  the  throne  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
and  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  they  were  praising  the  Trinity, 
saying,  "  O  Lord  God,  our  King,  our  Messiah,  and  our 
Creator,  we  are  endowed  with  honour  because  Thou 
hast  made  us  honourable,  and  Thou  hast  exalted  us  be- 
cause we  begot  Thee  (Fol.  51a).  By  whom  then  wilt 
Thou  not  make  our  names  to  be  heard  and  known 
throughout  all  the  world  ?  For  if  Thou  wilt  make  our 
names  to  be  thus  heard  of  men  will  then  celebrate  our 
commemoration  and  festival,  even  as  we  see  them  cele- 
brating the  commemorations  and  festivals  of  the  Mar- 
tyrs, and  of  the  Angels,  and  of  the  Righteous,  and  of 
the  Virgins,  and  of  all  those  who  have  found  favour  be- 
fore Thee.  O  God,  grant  Thou  favour  unto  him  that 
shall  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  us,  and  shall  give 

45 


The  History  of  Ha7i7id 

alms  in  our  name.  And  what  shall  be  the  reward  from 
Thee  of  him  that  shall  do  this  ?  "  And  God  said  unto 
them,  "  Whosoever  shall  celebrate  the  commemoration 
of  you,  or  shall  build  a  church  in  your  names,  or  shall 
write  your  history,  I  will  make  him  to  rejoice  in  the 
world  that  is  to  come,  and  I  will  forgive  him  all  his  sins, 
and  I  will  destroy  the  bond  for  his  debt." 

So  (Fol.  51b)  then,  O  beloved  brethren  in  Christ,  pay 
ye  honour  unto  Joachim  and  Hanna,  and  magnify  them 
and  love  them,  for  it  was  they  who  begat  our  Lady 
Mary,  the  God-bearer.  Celebrate  ye  their  festivals,^ 
so  that  they  may  become  your  helpers  in  heaven  on  the 
day  of  retribution  and  judgement,  when  the  mother 
shall  not  be  able  to  save  our  children,  and  when  the 
Pearl  shall  have  no  power.  Verily  I  say  unto  you  that 
they  shall  make  intercession  for  you  with  our  Lord  and 
Redeemer  Jesus  Christ,  that  He  may  show  compassion 
upon  you.  Amen.  For  He  Himself  said,  "  Whosoever 
shall  give  unto  those  who  believe  on  Me  a  cup  of  cold 
water  in  [My]  Name  shall  not  lose  his  reward  with 
Me  "2  ■  and  blessed  is  he  who  honoureth  them,  (Fol. 
52a)  for  unto  him  shall  they  pay  honour.  Blessed  is 
he  who  loveth  them,  for  Thou  wilt  love  him.  Blessed 
is  he  who  giveth  thanks  unto  them,  for  they  will  give 
thanks  unto  him  in  the  heavens.  Blessed  is  he  who  shall 
proclaim  them  holy,  for  they  shall  proclaim  him  holy. 
Blessed  and  holy  is  Hanna,  and  blessed  and  pure  is 
Joachim.  They  shall  make  supplication  unto  our  Lady, 
the  mother  of  our  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ,  on  behalf 
of  him  that  celebrateth  their  commemoration,  when 
judgement  is  about  to  be  passed  upon  him.  And  our 
holy  Lady,  the  Virgin  Mary,  shall  stand  before  her  be- 
loved Son,  our  Redeemer,  and  shall  make  intercession 
on  behalf  of  those  who  celebrate  the  commemoration 

^  I.e.  the  7th  of  Miyazya  (April  2)  for  Joachim,  and  the  llth  of 
Hadar  (November  7)  for  Hanna. 
2  Matthew  X,  42  ;   Mark  ix,  41. 

46 


PLATE  XIV 


From  the  Life  of  Hanna,  Lady  Mciix  MS.  -Vo.  4. 

Saint  Theodore  slaying  a  viper  in  human  form 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

of  her  father  and  mother,  Joachim  and  Hanna,  and  she 
will  cause  all  their  sins  to  be  forgiven,  and  will  lead 
them  (Fol.  52b)  unto  the  life  which  is  everlasting. 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  mercy, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  salvation, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  compassion, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  majesty, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  righteousness, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  glory, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  daughter  of  Adam  and  Eve, 
O  blessed  Hanna,  the  new  lamb, 

0  blessed  Hanna,  I  say  unto  thee,  O  our  Lady, 
"  Here  am  I."' 

1  say  unto  thee,  "  Thou  art  the  ship  of  life  for  my 
soul,  [which  shall  deliver  it]  from  the  sea  of  fire  that 
would  engulf  it."  O  Lady  (Fol.  53a),  O  glorious  one, 
O  exalted  one,  let  the  gift  of  thy  enduring  blessing  de- 
scend like  the  rain  upon  the  heads  of  us  (because  of  thy 
special  covenant  which  thine  only  Son  gave  unto  thee), 
who  are  gathered  together  this  day,  which  is  the  day 
of  the  festival  of  this  country.  Through  thy  prayers 
let  not  the  fruit  of  our  trafhcking  be  diminished  ;  and 
save  us  from  death  by  pestilence,  and  from  locusts,  and 
from  hailstorms ;  and  let  the  darkness  of  sin  be  removed 
from  over  us  ;  and  may  our  adversary  be  trodden  under 
foot  throughout  all  generations,  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen. 

COLOPHON 

May  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  write  upon  the  pillar  of 
gold,  which  shall  never  be  moved  out  of  its  place  and 
shall  never  be  thrown  down,  with  a  pen  of  light  emit- 
ting brilliant  splendour  and  radiance  the  name  of  Gabra 
Maryam,  who  had  written  the  Book  of  the  History  of 
the  holy  and  pious  woman  Hanna,  the  mother  of  our 
Lady,  the  Holy  Virgin  Mary,  the  God-bearer,  for  he 
had  it  written  with  the  greatest  diligence,  and  with 

47 


The  History  of  H anna 

exceeding  great  care  (Fol.  53b).  And  when  the  doers  of 
the  good  pleasure  of  the  God  of  righteousness  are 
gathered  together,  may  Gabra  Maryam  be  among  them, 
and  may  he  sit  down  [with  them  at  the  feast]  with  joy 
and  gladness,  being  through  her  prayers  arrayed  in 
shining  wedding  apparel.  And  through  the  prayer  of 
Hanna,  the  smell  of  whose  raiment  is  like  unto  that  of 
myrrh  and  balsam,  may  the  Son  of  her  daughter,  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  destroy  and  do  away  the  bond  of  the 
sins  of  the  scribe  Gabra  Krestos,  who  was  swallowed  up 
in  the  working  of  sin,  but  whose  nature  became  changed 
into  that  of  a  monk,  and  may  he  allot  unto  him  a  place 
(Fol.  54a)  with  her  on  the  right  hand  in  His  kingdom, 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed,  and  shall  not  pass  away 
for  ever  and  ever.  Amen.  And  Amen.  May  it  be  ! 
May  it  be  ! 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  SIXTH  DAY  OF  THE  WEEK 

In  the  Name  of  God  Almighty  Who  stahlished  the 
heavens  ;  and  in  the  Name  of  God,  the  Son,  the  Otily  One, 
Who  brought  the  world  out  of  nothing  ;  and  in  the  Name 
of  God,  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  Paraclete,  the  Spirit  Who  gave 
him  wisdom  a?id  u?idersta7tdi?ig,  we  begin  to  write  the  fol- 
lowing discourse  on  Joachim,  of  glorious  name  and  of  ex- 
alted memory,  the  Father  of  our  Lady,  the  God-bearer,  the 
Virgin  Mary.  Unto  him  that  readeth  it  shall  accrue 
benefit,  unto  him  that  heareth  it  and  marketh  it  well  shall 
come  advantage,  and  his  prayers  shall  guard  him  in  this 
world  from  the  craft  and  wiles  of  the  Devil,  who  will 
attack  him  ceaselessly,  (Fol.  54b)  and  in  the  world  to  come 
God  will  allot  unto  him  a  place  with  the  saints. 

O  Lord  God,  open  Thou  for  me  my  mouth  for  a 
little  space  that  I  may  speak  with  my  halting  tongue 
and  my  feeble  voice,  and  may  proclaim  and  declare  the 
History  of  the  Birth  of  our  Lady  Mary  from  the  loins 
of  Joachim,  of  the  rod  of  sovereignty,  and  from  the 
womb  of  Hanna,  of  the  rod  of  priesthood.    Now  the 

.4S 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Lord  God  chose  this  man  Joachim,  who  was  of  exalted 
position,  from  among  all  the  families  of  Judah,  and 
from  among  all  the  men  of  the  house  of  David  the 
king,  who  was  chosen  to  rule  over  the  house  of  Israel 
from  among  the  seven  sons  of  Jesse  (i  Samuel  xvi),  who 
were  well  grown  and  of  fine  stature,  and  who  had  been 
reared   with   careful   admonitions    (Fol.    55a).     Now 
David  was  the  least  among  his  brethren.    And  God 
sent  Samuel  the  Prophet  unto  the  house  of  Jesse,  and 
into  the  house  of  Ephratah  of  Bethlehem,  and  when 
Samuel  had  arrived  there,  he  said  unto  Jesse,  "  Call  thy 
sons,  and  bring  them  hither  unto  me  that  I  may  declare 
unto  them  the  word  that  God  hath  spoken  unto  me." 
Then  Jesse  went  and  called  Eliab  his  firstborn  ;  now  he 
was  the  oldest  of  David's  brethren,   and  he  was  of 
goodly  stature  and  handsome  in  person.    And  Samuel 
said,  "  God  hath  not  chosen  him."    And  again  Jesse 
called  unto  his  second  son,  and  of  this  one  Samuel  said, 
"  The  Lord  hath  not  chosen  him."  Then  Jesse  called 
unto  each  and  all  his  sons  and  brought  them  unto 
Samuel,  and  (Fol.  55b)  when  Samuel  saw  them,  he  said 
unto  him,  "  God  hath  not  chosen  them,  and  He  hath 
no  pleasure  in  them."   And  after  these  things  Samuel 
said  unto  Jesse,  "  Hast  thou  not  another  son  besides 
these  whom  I  have  seen  ?  "   Then  Jesse  said  unto  him, 
"  There  is  yet  a  little  son  who  is  among  the  flocks,  and 
he  watcheth  the  sheep  "  ;   and  Samuel  said  unto  him, 
"  Call  him  unto  me  "  ;    and  Jesse  called  David.    And 
when  he  had  come,  Samuel  saw  that  his  face  was  joyful, 
and  his  eyes  were  blue  in  colour,  and  his  stature  was  as 
that  of  a  cedar  of  Lebanon,  and  his  teeth  were  like 
white  milk,  and  he  was  altogether  ruddy  like  a  rose,  and 
his  arms  were  like  unto  the  limbs  of  young  lions.  Then 
God  said  unto  Samuel  (Fol.  56a)  the  Prophet,  "Behold, 
this  is  he  whom  I  have  chosen  to  reign  over  the  house 
of  Israel.   Rise  up  and  anoint  him,  and  make  the  horn 
to  increase  for  him,  and  make  ready  a  lamp  for  Mine 

E  49 


The  History  of  Ha?md 

anointed,  David  ;  and  I  will  make  a  staff  to  sprout  from 
his  roots,  and  a  flower  that  shall  never  perish  from  his 
stem."  Then  straightway  Samuel  rose  up  from  where 
he  was  sitting,  and  he  took  the  horn  of  oil  and  poured 
it  out  upon  his  head,  and  said  unto  him,  "  God  hath 
anointed  thee,  and  He  hath  appointed  thee  to  rule 
Israel  His  inheritance  "  ;  and  after  he  had  anointed 
David,  Samuel  came  into  the  house  of  Jesse  to  eat  meat. 
And  in  that  same  night  God  appeared  unto  Samuel, 
and  said  unto  him,  "  I  have  made  a  covenant  with  My 
chosen  one,  (Fol.  56b)  and  I  have  sworn  an  oath  unto 
David  My  servant  that  I  will  preserve  unto  him  seed 
for  ever  and  ever,  and  that  I  will  build  his  throne  from 
generation  unto  generation." 

And  when  Samuel  the  Prophet  rose  up  in  the  morn- 
ing, he  called  unto  David  and  said  unto  him,  ''  Thus 
saith  the  Lord  :  Behold,  I  have  exalted  My  chosen  one 
from  among  My  people,  and  I  have  anointed  him  with 
holy  oil.  His  seed  shall  stand  fast  for  ever  and  ever, 
and  his  throne  shall  be  like  unto  the  days  of  heaven." 
Now  the  seed  of  which  he  spake  is  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  his  throne  is  our  Lady  Mary,  who  blos- 
somed from  the  loins  of  Joachim  her  father,  the  holy 
son  of  David.  She  was  sown  in  the  womb  of  Hanna 
the  barren  woman,  even  as  the  angel  [Gabriel]  had  an- 
nounced unto  her  father  the  mention  of  her  being  sown 
in  the  womb  of  his  pure  (Fol.  57a)  wife,  who  from  being 
a  barren  woman  became  a  w^oman  who  gave  suck.  How 
greatly  then  shall  Abraham  rejoice  because  there  w^as 
born  unto  him  Mary,  his  daughter,  our  mother,  [from] 
his  son  Joachim,  that  she  might  reign  over  the  wide  ex- 
tent of  the  whole  world,  and  not  in  Hebron  and  Hesh- 
bon  [only]!  And  how  great  is  the  rejoicing  of  Isaac, 
who  was  offered  up  as  an  offering  unto  God  by  the 
hand  of  his  father  Abraham,  for  from  his  seed  was  born 
our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Christ,  Who  offered  up  Him- 
self as  a  sacrifice  which  was  well-pleasing  unto  God. 

50 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Blessed  art  thou,  O  Jacob,  thou  stem  of  Joachim,  for 
the  ladder  of  thy  prophecy  shall  be  found  in  the  city  of 
the  Book  that  it  may  be  a  support  unto  God.  And 
thou,  O  Judah,  thy  bride  Tamar  (Genesis  xxxviii,  6) 
shall  not  be  called  "  harlot,"  because  she  was  (Fol.  57b) 
saved  from  being  stoned  with  stones  by  the  daughter  of 
thy  son  Joachim,  that  is  to  say,  Mary.  Again,  let  us 
pass  on  and  give  consolation  unto  Naomi,  and  say  unto 
her.  Henceforth  weep  not  for  thy  sons,  and  call  not  thy- 
self "  Marara,"^  for  thy  daughter-in-law  Ruth  the 
Moabitess  hath  given  birth  unto  a  son  by  Boaz  who 
shall  be  seven  times  better  than  thy  sons  [for  thee],  be- 
cause from  his  seed  the  salvation  of  Israel  hath  been 
found  this  day.  And  thou,  O  David,  sing  thy  psalms 
to  thy  harp  of  strings,  because  of  the  glory  of  thy 
daughter  who  hath  sprung  from  Joachim  thy  son,  and 
declare  all  the  glory  of  the  daughter  of  the  king  of 
Heshbon,  inasmuch  as  she  is  clothed  in  raiment  of 
many  colours,  and  is  girt  about  with  fringes  of  gold 
(Psalm  xlv,  9)  ;  and  again  it  is  said  (Fol.  58a),  "  Silver 
wing  like  that  of  the  dove  whose  sides  are  green  gold  " 
(Psalm  Ixviii,  13).  And  yet  a  third  time,  "  Her  foun- 
dations are  in  the  holy  mountains ;  God  loveth  the 
gates  of  Zion  more  than  all  the  habitations  (or,  camps) 
of  Jacob  "  (Psalm  Ixxxvii,  2).  And  thou  also,  O  Solo- 
mon, sing  [thy]  Song,  and  say  unto  her,  "  Come,  O  my 
beautiful  dove,  thy  speech  is  pleasant  "  ;  and  say  unto 
her,  "  Turn  back,  turn  back,  in  peace,  O  thou  who  dost 
possess  pleasant  things,  and  in  thee  we  shall  see  peace  " 
(Song  of  Solomon  ii,  13,  14). 

And  now  let  us  return  to  the  praising  of  Hanna  and 
Joachim,  whose  marriage  was  pure,  whose  marriage  was 
holy,  for  in  it  was  mingled  the  Holy  Ghost.  Their 
marriage  was  sweeter  than  musk  and  aspalathus,  yea, 

1  And  she  said  unto  them,  Call  me  not  Naomi  (i.e.  Pleasant),  call 
me  Mara  (i.e.  Bitter),  for  the  Almighty  hath  dealt  very  bitterly  with 
me  (Ruth  i,  20). 

51 


The  History  of  H anna 

their  marriage  was  better  than  the  marriage  of  the  good 
ancestors  who  were  before  them,  (FoL  58b)  for  in  their 
old  age,  after  they  were  crowned,  they  begat  Mary,  the 
Candlestick,  the  Mother  of  the  Great  Light,  who  was 
likened  unto  the  Tabernacle  of  Moses  and  Aaron,  the 
priests  and  Levites,  and  who  hath  become  unto  us  the 
means  of  our  freedom  from  the  works  of  sin.  Blessed 
art  thou,  O  Joachim,  thou  beautiful  old  man,  thou 
boast  of  holy  men,  for  the  hidden  God  made  Himself 
manifest  in  the  flesh  of  thy  daughter.  O  blessed  Joa- 
chim, O  Joachim  who  wast  beautiful  in  thine  old  age, 
thy  blessedness  exceedeth  that  of  the  chosen  ones  who 
were  of  olden  time.  O  blessed  Joachim,  who  wast  beau- 
tiful in  thine  old  age,  thy  blessedness  is  more  to  be  de- 
sired than  precious  stones.  Unto  whom  shall  we  liken 
thee  ?  Shall  it  be  unto  our  father  Adam,  who  was 
created  in  the  form  of  God,  or  unto  Abel,  whose  offer- 
ing was  accepted  ?  O  blessed  Joachim,  unto  whom 
shall  we  liken  thee  ?  (Fol.  59a)  Shall  it  be  unto  Seth 
or  unto  Henos,  who  first  called  upon  the  Name  of  God? 
O  blessed  Joachim,  unto  whom  shall  we  liken  thee  ? 
Shall  it  be  unto  Enoch  who  pleased  God,  whom  God 
removed  from  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  he  continueth 
above  unto  this  present  ?  O  blessed  Joachim,  unto 
whom  shall  we  liken  thee  ?  Unto  Noah,  or  unto  his 
three  sons,  who  were  saved  from  the  waters  of  the 
Flood,  together  with  their  wives  ?  O  blessed  Joachim, 
thou  beauty  of  the  blessed,  behold,  there  have  been 
found  in  thy  house  the  riches  of  the  rich,  that  is  to  say, 
the  Queen  of  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world.  It  is  she 
whom  the  Angel  Watchers  praise,  and  the  hosts  of  light 
proclaim  her  holy  as  they  stand  before  her  in  sixty  com- 
panies of  mighty  ones.  Of  her  the  armies  of  the  house 
of  David  and  Solomon  (Fol.  59b)  make  their  boast, 
from  Dan  even  unto  Beersheba.  She  is  the  Tables  of 
the  Law  of  Moses,  and  the  almond  rod  of  Aaron,  and 
the  inheritance  of  the  priests  of  the  Levites,  and  the 

52 


The  Mother  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

breeches  of  fine  linen,  and  the  mitre  and  the  tunic. 
Her  fruit  is  the  food  of  those  who  hunger,  and  the 
blood  of  her  grape  clusters  is  the  drink  of  those  who 
thirst.  She  is  the  refuge  of  those  who  are  cast  away, 
and  the  freedom  of  those  who  are  enslaved. 

O  blessed  Joachim,  O  blessed  Hanna,  ye  beautiful 
aged  ones,  ye  are  as  exalted  as  the  heavens,  and  as  firm 
as  the  earth,  and  as  shining  as  the  pearl,  and  ye  are  like 
unto  the  gold  that  hath  been  tried  [in  the  furnace]  ; 
and  God  hath  chosen  your  flesh  wherewith  to  cover 
Himself.  O  blessed  Joachim,  thy  memorial  is  greater 
than  the  glory  of  the  world,  yea,  it  is  more  to  be  de- 
sired than  the  sardonyx  stone,  and  it  is  more  beautiful 
than  the  gold  of  Taprobane.  The  memory  of  thee  shall 
be  praised  (Fol.  69a)  until  the  end  of  the  world,  yea, 
even  until  the  heavenly  Jerusalem,  the  citadel  of  the 
heights,  shall  appear,  the  city  that  shall  come  down 
from  above,  together  with  the  foundation  and  the 
twelve  gates  thereof.  Now  each  of  its  gates  shall  be  a 
pearl.  None  shall  enter  therein  who  putteth  on  curs- 
ing, neither  shalt  there  be  within  it  any  who  utter  re- 
vilings.  O  blessed  Joachim,  thou  wast  the  father  of  our 
Lady  Mary,  who  was  the  Mother  of  the  August  God- 
head, according  to  the  Annunciation  of  Gabriel.  When 
He  was  born  in  Bethlehem  the  breath  of  the  ass  and 
the  ox  gave  warmth,  for  the  prophecy  of  the  Prophet 
Habakkuk  was  fulfilled.^  O  glorious  one,  O  exalted  one, 
O  thou  who  art  to  be  praised,  O  righteous  one,  O  chosen 
one,  O  man  of  virtue,  O  good  one  of  all  the  good,  O 
Joachim  (Fol.  60b),  make  thou  prayer  and  supplication 
that  the  most  miserable  Gabra  Maryam,  who  loveth 
thee  exceedingly,  may  do  the  works  of  goodness  and 
righteousness,  and  that  upon  him,  the  faint  and  weary 
one,  thy  blessing  may  be  poured  out  like  the  rain,  hence- 
forth and  for  ever  and  ever  !    Amen. 

^  Isaiah  i,  3  :  Habakkuk  iii,  2. 

53 


THE    COVENANT    OF    CHRIST    WITH    THE 

BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY,COMMONLY  CALLED 

THE  "  COVENANT  OF  MERCY." 

[Version  I.     A.Fol.  75a,  i  ;  Orient.  No.  604,  Fol.  65a.] 

ON  THE  SIXTEENTH  DAY  OF  THE  MONTH  YAKATIT  (FEB- 
RUARY 10)  SHALL  BE  CELEBRATED  THE  COMMEMORATION 
OF  OUR  HOLY  LADY,  THE  VIRGIN,  TWOFOLD  MARY,  THE 
GOD-BEARER,  BECAUSE  SHE  RECEIVED  THEREIN  THE  COVE- 
NANT OF  MERCY  FROM  HER  SON,  OUR  REDEEMER,  JESUS 
CHRIST.  WHOSOEVER  SHALL  CELEBRATE  HER  COMMEMOR- 
ATION, AND  SHALL  CALL  UPON  HER  NAME,  AND  SHALL 
GIVE  ALMS  UNTO  THE  POOR  AND  NEEDY,  EVEN  IF  IT  BE  A 
CUP  OF  COLD  WATER  ONLY  [sHALL  RECEIVE  HIS  REWARd]. 

NOW  when  the  Son  of  this  holy  woman  Mary, 
whose  pure  flesh  He  had  taken  upon  Himself, 
went  up  into  heaven,  He  sat  down  on  the  right  hand  of 
His  Father,  having  fulfilled  all  the  Law,  and  taken 
upon  Himself  human  nature,  with  the  exception  of  sin, 
and  gained  dominion  over  the  pains  of  the  Cross  by 
His  own  free  will  which  He  exercised  for  our  redemp- 
tion. And  He  left  His  mother  Mary  in  the  house  of 
John  His  disciple,  whom  He  loved,  and  whom  He  com- 
mitted unto  her  protection,  saying,  "  Behold  thy  son," 
and  also  to  that  disciple  He  said,  "  Behold  thy  mother." 
And  our  Lady  Mary  dwelt  [there],  and  she  was  wont 
to  go  unto  the  grave  of  her  Son,  that  is  to  say,  to  Gol- 
gotha, to  pray  there.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  the 
Jews  saw  her  they  were  filled  with  wrath  and  jealousy, 
and  they  wished  to  stone  her,  but  God  made  her  to 
disappear  from  their  sight.  Then  they  took  counsel 
together  and  appointed  guards  over  His  grave,  so  that 
she  might  not  be  able  to  come  and  pray  there  again  ; 
but  she  ceased  not  to  go  there  each  day.    Now  the 

54 


PLATE  XV 


Lady  Ma(x  MS.  Xo.  2,fol.  So«. 

Christ  in  heaven  making  the  Covenant  of  Mercv  with  Marv  His  mother 


The  Covenant  of  Christ  with  Mary 

guards  never  saw  her,  for  the  mantle  of  the  glory  of 
her  Son  made  her  to  be  invisible,  and  angels  came  unto 
her  at  all  times  to  minister  unto  her,  and  her  Son,  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  watched  over  her  continually,  and 
fulfilled  for  her  all  her  desires. 

And  after  this  He  made  her  to  ascend  into  heaven, 
and  He  shewed  her  the  place  where  the  righteous  rest, 
and  where  dwell  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  ;  and  the 
spirits  of  all  the  Fathers  who  had  died  from  Adam  unto 
Christ  received  her.  And  they  bowed  down  before  her 
and  said,  "  Glory  be  unto  God  Who  hath  created  thee 
for  us,  flesh  of  our  flesh,  and  bone  of  our  bone  ;  in  thee 
we  have  found  redemption.  And  thou  hast  become  the 
Gate  of  Life  leading  away  from  destruction,  through 
the  Incarnation  of  the  Son  of  God  of  thee."  Then  the 
angels  lifted  her  up  and  carried  her  unto  her  beloved 
Son,  [Who  was  seated  upon]  His  throne  ;  and  flames 
of  fire  covered  Him  round  about  on  the  right  hand  and 
on  the  left.  Then  our  Lord  took  her  hand,  and  He 
kissed  her  mouth  and  said  unto  her,  "  Hast  thou  come, 
O  My  mother  ?  "  Then  He  made  her  to  ascend  His 
throne  of  glory,  and  to  sit  by  His  side,  and  He  described 
unto  her  the  joy  and  gladness  which  eye  hath  never 
seen,  and  ear  hath  never  heard,  and  the  heart  of  man 
hath  never  imagined,  that  He  had  prepared  for  her. 
And  below  the  throne  she  saw  David  her  father,  the 
King  of  Israel,  together  with  all  the  Company  of  the 
Prophets  and  the  angels ;  and  the  souls  of  the  righteous 
were  standing  round  about  them.  And  David  was 
singing  psalms  to  his  harp,  and  saying,  "  Hearken,  O  my 
daughter,  see  and  incline  thine  ear,  forget  thy  people 
in  thy  father's  house,  for  the  King  hath  desired  thy 
beauty,  and  He  is  thy  Lord  "  (Psalm  xlv,  lo,  ii). 

And  again  the  angels  set  her  so  that  she  might  see  the 
place  of  judgement,  and  they  brought  her  unto  the 
place  which  was  the  boundary  of  the  darkness  that  had 
been  prepared  for  Satan  and  his  angels,  and  for  all 

55 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?!  Mary 

those  who  walked  in  his  ways.  Then  our  Lady  Mary 
said,  "  Woe  is  me  !  Who  will  announce  to  the  children 
of  men  that  they  shall  come  here  ?  "  And  an  angel  said 
unto  her,  "  Fear  thou  not,  O  Mary,  God  is  with  thee. 
He  is  with  thee,  and  He  will  be  with  those  who  shall 
come  after  thee."  Then  the  angels  carried  her  along 
and  brought  her  back  to  her  [former]  place.  And 
straightway  our  Lady  Mary  sat  down,  being  exceed- 
ingly sorrowful  for  all  the  sinners.  Now  that  day  was 
the  sixteenth  day  of  the  month  Yakatit,  and  she  stood 
up  on  the  "  place  of  the  skull  "  (Golgotha),  and  she 
made  supplication  unto  her  Son,  saying,  "  I  adjure 
Thee,  O  my  Son,  by  God  Almighty  Thy  Father,  and 
by  Thy  Name  Christ,  by  the  Paraclete  Thy  Spirit,  and 
by  my  womb  which  bore  Thee,  Whom  earth  is  not  able 
to  bear,  and  Whom  even  the  angels  are  not  able  to  ap- 
proach, for  nine  months  and  five  days ;  I  adjure  Thee, 
O  my  Son,  by  Thy  going  forth  from  me  without  pain, 
and  by  Thy  birth  ;  I  adjure  Thee  by  my  breasts  which 
gave  Thee  suck,  and  by  my  lips  which  kissed  Thee,  and 
by  my  arms  which  embraced  Thee,  and  by  my  feet 
which  walked  about  with  Thee  ;  I  adjure  Thee  by  the 
cradle  wherein  Thou  didst  lie,  and  by  the  swaddling 
bands  wherewith  Thou  wast  swathed ;  O  my  Son,  my 
beloved  One,  I  entreat  and  make  supplication  unto 
Thee  that  Thou  mayest  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  my 
petition,  and  mayest  come  unto  me,  and  mayest  fulfil 
everything  which  is  in  my  heart." 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  our  Lady,  the  holy 
Virgin  Mary,  the  Mother  of  the  Light,  had  thus 
spoken,  our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ  came 
down,  and  with  Him  and  round  about  Him  were 
thousands  of  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of 
angels.  And  He  said  unto  her,  "  What  shall  I  do 
for  thee,  O  Mary  My  Mother  ?  And  what  wish 
is  it  that  thou  wishest  Me  to  fulfil  for  thee  ?  " 
Then  our  Lady,  the  Holy  Virgin  Mary,  made  answer 

56 


PLATE  XVI 


Lady  ^Uux  .1/5.  -Vo.  2, /o/.  78a. 


1.  Marv  standing  by  the  Sepulchre  of  Christ 

2.  The  Watchmen  appointed  by  the  Jews 

1.  Our  Lord,  risen  from  the  tomb,  addressing  Mary 


The  Covenant  of  Christ  with  Mary 

unto  her  beloved  Son,  and  said  unto  Him,  "  O  my 
Son,  my  beloved  One,  my  Lord  and  my  Redeemer, 
my  Hope,  and  my  Refuge,  in  Whom  is  my  trust, 
in  Thee  have  I  my  strength,  and  in  Thy  asylum 
do  Thou  protect  me  ;  Thou  art  He  Whom  I  re- 
member always.  And  now,  hearken  Thou  unto  my 
prayer  and  unto  my  entreaty,  and  incline  Thine  ear 
unto  the  words  of  my  mouth.  I  who  speak  unto  Thee 
am  Thy  Mother  Mary,  and  I  am  Thine  handmaiden. 
Whosoever  shall  celebrate  the  festival  of  my  commemo- 
ration, or  shall  build  a  church  in  my  name,  or  shall 
clothe  the  naked,  or  shall  visit  the  sick,  or  shall  feed 
the  hungry,  or  shall  give  drink  to  him  that  is  athirst,  or 
shall  comfort  him  that  is  sorrowful,  or  shall  make  to  re- 
joice him  that  is  broken  in  spirit,  or  shall  write  a  book 
of  my  praises,  or  shall  meditate  upon  the  hymns  [sung] 
to  me  on  the  day  of  my  festival,  reward  Thou  him,  O 
Lord,  with  a  good  reward  from  Thyself,  the  which  eye 
hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  hath  heard,  nor  mind  of  man 
hath  conceived.  I  beseech  Thee  and  I  make  supplica- 
tion unto  Thee,  O  Lord,  on  behalf  of  all  those  who 
shall  believe  on  me,  that  Thou  wilt  make  them  to  be 
free  from  Sheol ;  and  that  Thou  wilt  remember  him 
that  is  an  hungered  and  him  that  is  athirst,  and  all  the 
trials  which  came  upon  me  with  Thee." 

And  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  answered  and  said  unto 
her,  "  It  shall  be  even  as  thou  sayest,  and  I  will  fulfil 
for  thee  all  thy  petition.  Did  I  not  become  man 
through  thee  ?  I  swear  by  Myself  that  I  will  not  break 
My  Covenant  with  thee." 

Salutation  unto  thee,  O  Book  of  the  Law  and  the 
Covenant  like  unto  the  Tables  of  stone, 

For  each  and  every  one  who  shall  call  upon  thy  name! 

Let  the  hearts  of  sinners  be  softened,  let  the  hearts 
of  the  oppressors  be  softened. 

Let  the  hearts  of  those  who  are  afflicted  with  sorrow 
be  softened,  O  Mary.    Amen. 

57 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

THE  COVENANT  OF  MERCY 

[Version  II.     A.Fol.  ib,  i.] 

One  day  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said  unto  Mary, 
"  What  sorrow  can  be  greater  than  that  which  came 
upon  thee  for  My  sake  ?  " 

And  our  Lady  Mary  said  unto  Him,  "  O  my  Lord 
and  God,  there  were  Five  Sorrows  that  came  upon  me 
for  Thy  sake,  and  they  overcame  me  mightily.  The 
first  of  them  was  that  which  came  upon  me  when 
Simeon  prophesied  concerning  Thee  in  the  Sanctuary, 
saying  that  the  Jews  would  slay  Thee.  The  second  was 
the  sorrow  I  endured  when  I  lost  Thee  in  the  Sanc- 
tuary, and  I  was  seeking  for  Thee  for  three  days.  The 
third  was  the  sorrow  I  endured  when  I  remembered 
how  they  had  bound  Thee  hand  and  foot,  and  how 
Pilate's  men  scourged  Thy  back.  The  fourth  was  the 
sorrow  I  endured  when  they  crucified  Thee  between 
two  thieves  on  the  day  of  the  Eve  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
Thou  wast  naked,  and  they  drove  five  nails  through 
Thy  flesh.  The  fifth  sorrow  I  endured  when  I  remem- 
bered how  Joseph  and  Nicodemus  took  Thee  down 
from  the  Cross,  and  swathed  Thee  in  fine  linen,  and 
laid  Thee  in  the  tomb." 

And  our  Lord  said  unto  her  who  had  given  Him 
birth,  "  Thus  saith  our  Father  Who  is  in  heaven  : 
Whosoever  shall  keep  in  remembrance  the  sorrows  and 
sufferings  which  have  come  upon  thee  for  My  sake,  and 
the  salutation  of  Gabriel,  I  will  remit  to  him  his  sins. 
And  whosoever  shall  give  an  offering  for  thy  name's 
sake  I  will  remit  to  him  his  sins,  and  I  will  make  him 
to  inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  And  I  will  come 
unto  him  with  thee,  O  thou  who  didst  give  Me  birth, 
and  I  will  appear  to  him  three  days  before  his  death." 

This  was  the  Covenant  which  Christ  made  with  His 
mother,  and  she  told  it  unto  Dexius,  who  wrote  it 

58 


PLATE  XVII 


From  the  Book  of  tlw   UirncU'S  of  the  Virgin  Mary  ycdited  by  Budge,  London,  I'joo,  jronuspiece). 


Portrait  of  Our  Blessed  Lady  Alary,  the  two-fold  Virgin,  and  Child. 
By  her  side  stand  the  Archangels  Michael  and  Gabriel 


The  Covenant  of  Christ  with  Mary 

down,  together  with  her  Miracles,  so  that  [all]  believers 
might  read  it.   May  her  prayer  and  blessing  be  with  us 
for  ever  and  ever. 
What  sorrow  can  be  greater  than  the  sorrows  that 

came  upon  thee,  O  Virgin  ? 
For  thou  didst  utter  a  cry  when  He  cried  unto  thee 

a  cry 
On  the  Eve  of  the  Sabbath,  the  day  upon  which  He 

was  on  the  holy  wood,  the  Cross. 
By  the  Five  Sorrows,  O  deliver  me  from  perdition, 
And  from  the  mighty  terror  of  the  terrible  Sheol. 


59 


THE  SEVEN  SALUTATIONS  TO  THE 
COVENANT  OF  MERCY 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy,  my  hope, 
the  justifier  of  the  sinner,  the  seeker  after  the  one  sheep 
of  the  ninety  and  nine  which  hath  become  cast  away. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy,  thou 
pillar  set  up  by  God  ;  be  thou  a  sign  of  salvation  unto 
all  sinners,  O  thou  whose  love  strengtheneth. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy,  thou 
gold  that  embraceth  all  riches,  the  storehouse  of  the 
poor  and  needy,  and  the  wealth  of  him  that  is  in  heaven. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy,  who 
weighest  the  heavens  in  a  balance  ;  my  trust  is  in  thee, 
grant  thou  unto  me  both  the  strife  and  the  conquest 
thereof. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy,  earnest 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ;  whosoever  loveth  thee  shall 
live  in  hope  until  the  resurrection  of  all  [mankind]  shall 
take  place. 

Salutation  to  thee,  O  Covenant  of  Mercy.  If  I 
cannot  justify  myself  by  strivings  and  good  works,  let 
me  rely  upon  thee,  O  Virgin  Covenant,  to  save  my  soul 
from  perdition. 

Salutation  to  thee.  Upon  him  that  shall  build  a 
temple  in  the  name  of  thy  Covenant,  and  upon  those 
of  us  who  pray  in  thy  name,  O  Mary,  bestow  a  portion 
of  thy  blessing,  and  make  supplication  unto  thy  Good 
Son  [on  our  behalf]. 


60 


THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  VIRGIN   MARY  AS 

TOLD  BY  HER  TO  THEOPHILUS,  PATRIARCH 

OF  ALEXANDRIA 

[A.Fol.  90a,  I  ;  Brit.  Mus.  Oriental  No.  604,  Fol.  5a 
and  No.  605,  Fol.  162a.] 

HERE  beginneth  the  story  of  how  our  Lady  Mary 
appeared  unto  the  Archbishop  Theophilus,  and 
how  she  spake  with  him  and  strengthened  him  after  the 
weariness  of  the  way.    He  said  : 

O  my  fathers  and  brethren,  hearken  ye  unto  what  I 
shall  say  unto  you  with  fear,  and  with  true  faith,  how 
our  holy  Lady,  the  twofold  Virgin,  Mary,  the  God- 
bearer,  appeared  unto  me.  On  the  Sunday  which  hath 
just  passed  by  we  had  brought  to  an  end  our  prayers  for 
the  night,  and  the  fathers  who  were  bishops  had  de- 
parted to  sleep  by  themselves.  And  I  went  up  on  the 
raised  platform  whereon  abideth  our  holy  Lady,  the 
twofold  Virgin,  Mary,  the  God-bearer,  and  I  stood  up 
and  stretched  out  my  hands,  and  I  made  supplication 
unto  God,  saying,  "  Hearken  Thou  unto  me,  O  my 
Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  Who  didst  hearken  unto 
those  who  were  gathered  together  at  Nicaea  until  at 
length  they  established  the  Law  (i.e.  Creed)  of  God. 
Hearken  unto  me,  O  Thou  Who  didst  hearken  unto 
Abba  Athanasius  the  Apostle,  and  Who  didst  help  him 
out  of  his  tribulation.  I  am  prepared  to  do  service  for 
Thee,  and  I  know  that  Thou  wilt  hearken  unto  me 
always,  and  that  Thou  art  for  ever  nigh  unto  those 
who  love  Thy  Name,  O  my  Lord  and  God.  Have  com- 
passion upon  me  and  turn  Thou  me  not  backwards,  for 
I  have  yoked  myself  unto  Thee  from  my  youth  up,  even 
unto  this  hour.   I  beseech  Thee  to  show  me  how  Thou 

61 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Ma?y  related 

didst  come  into  this  world,  and  how  Thou  didst  take  up 
Thine  abode  in  this  house  in  the  wilderness.  And  help 
Thou  me  to  build  this  house  in  such  wise  that  it  may 
become  a  great  church  wherein  men  shall  exalt  and 
glorify  Thy  holy  Name.  Unto  Thee  belong  power  and 
forgiveness,  and  Thou  art  the  Good  One,  together  with 
Thy  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  now,  henceforth,  and 
for  ever  and  ever."   Amen. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  I  had  prayed  in  this 
wise  a  mighty  light  appeared  unto  me,  and  I  thought 
that  the  sun  had  risen  ;  and  I  saw  a  marvellously  great 
light  whereon  sat  the  Queen  of  women,  our  holy  Lady, 
the  twofold  Virgin,  Mary,  the  God-bearer.  Her  face 
shone  like  the  sun  by  reason  of  the  light  that  was  upon 
her,  and  she  was  arrayed  in  such  a  brilliant  light  that 
at  length  I  said,  "  There  is  none  in  this  world  who  can 
bear  to  look  upon  such  glory  "  ;  and  Michael,  and 
Gabriel,  and  thousands  of  angels  were  going  round 
about  her.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  I  saw  them 
I  fell  upon  the  ground,  and  I  became  like  a  dead  man, 
but  Michael  raised  me  up,  and  removed  fear  and  dread 
from  me.  Then  our  holy  Lady  herself  spake  unto  me, 
saying,  I  am  the  holy  Lady,  the  twofold  Virgin,  Mary, 
the  God-bearer  :  arise,  be  not  afraid.  Salutation  unto 
thee,  O  thou  horseman  and  warrior  who  doest  battle 
for  the  Faith.  Salutation  to  thee,  O  thou  strong 
cornerstone  in  the  Church  of  God.  Rise  up,  be  strong, 
and  know  that  I  am  the  Mother  of  the  King  of  the 
heavens  and  the  earth.  He  Whom  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  cannot  contain  did  I  bear  in  my  womb  for  nine 
months,  and  by  His  Will  I  suckled  with  the  milk  of  my 
breasts  Him  that  giveth  food  unto  all  flesh.  I  am  Mary, 
the  daughter  of  Joachim  and  Hanna,  of  the  tribe  of 
Judah  and  of  the  seed  of  David,  and  I  have  appeared 
unto  thee  by  the  desire  of  my  beloved  Son.  And  I  will 
shew  thee  that  which  thou  hast  asked  and  sought  from 
me  concerning  this  house,  and  concerning  my  coming 

62 


PLATE  XV III 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  2,fol.^b. 


1.  Mary   accepting    from   Bishop    Dexius  his   work   on  her   life   and 
miracles 

2.  Mary  presenting  to  Dexius  a   throne  and  priestly  raiment  which 
had  been  woven  by  the  command  of  Christ 


hy  Theophilus^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

into  the  country  of  Egypt  from  Jerusalem.  Now  as 
concerning  this  house  He  desireth  to  leave  it  in  this 
state,  so  that  it  may  be  a  testimony  unto  all  the  genera- 
tions that  shall  come  into  the  world  concerning  the 
lowly  estate  which  came  upon  us ;  for  my  blessed  Son 
did  not  desire  to  be  exalted  upon  the  earth.  He  rode 
upon  the  clouds,  and  not  upon  horses  whereon  men 
ride,  which  is  a  sign  of  the  earth  ;  but  He  was  carried 
in  my  arms  from  Jerusalem  unto  this  house.  And  we 
dwelt  in  humble  state  in  those  days,  but  I  remembered 
the  word  of  Elisabeth,  who  said,  "  Who  am  I  that  the 
mother  of  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ  should  come  unto  me  ? 
(Luke  i,  43).  Thou  hast  honoured  me  more  than  my 
station  [meriteth]." 

And  our  holy  Lady  answered  and  said  unto  me, 
Theophilus,  uncover  the  ear  of  thine  heart,  and 
understand  what  I  shall  say  unto  thee  in  this  hour  ;  and 
write  it  down  upon  paper,  and  cause  it  to  come  into  all 
cities  and  regions  for  the  commemoration  of  me  until 
the  end  of  the  world.  Now  as  concerning  the  manner 
in  which  I  brought  forth  Jesus  Christ.  A  star  from  out 
of  the  East  appeared  [unto  me],  and  in  its  great  light 
was  hidden  the  light  of  [all  the  other]  stars.  Now  I 
was  abiding  in  my  house,  and  I  was  afraid  of  everything, 
and  there  was  none  to  minister  unto  me.  I  was  a  vir- 
gin, and  I  knew  nothing  whatsoever,  and  was  the  first- 
born of  my  mother.  I  had  never  at  any  time  dwelt 
with  women  who  had  given  birth  to  children  except 
Elisabeth,  the  barren  woman,  who  when  she  was  nigh 
to  bring  forth  had  everything  that  was  necessary  made 
ready  for  her  by  her  neighbours.  As  for  me,  I  had  no 
clothing,  and  I  sought  therefor,  but  found  nothing  ex- 
cept swathings  of  sackcloth,  and  in  these  swathings  I 
wrapped  His  holy  Body.  Nigh  at  hand  was  a  stable 
wherein  they  fed  the  oxen,  and  therein  was  my  bed, 
and  I  laid  the  Child  to  sleep  upon  it.  And  there  were 
there  an  ass  and  an  ox  which  bowed  down  in  homage 

63 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

to  Him,  and  they  kept  Him  warm  with  their  breath  ; 
now  at  that  season  of  the  year  the  days  were  cold,  for 
it  was  the  29th  day  of  the  month  Takhshash  (Dec.  25). 
And  straightway  I  looked,  and  behold,  the  Angels,  and 
the  Archangels,  and  the  Seraphim,  and  the  Cherubim 
came  in  their  companies,  and  they  bowed  down  in 
adoration  before  Him,  and  they  ascribed  praise  unto 
Him,  each  according  to  his  tongue,  and  said,  '  This  is 
the  day  that  God  hath  made  and  blessed.'  Then  they 
came  unto  me  and  they  paid  honour  unto  me,  for 
honour  had  been  given  unto  me  by  the  Father.  And 
they  said,  '  Blessed  art  thou  above  women,  and  blessed 
is  the  fruit  of  thy  womb,  which  hath  come  forth  to 
benefit  its  nation  which  sin  hath  destroyed.  Thou  art 
the  spotless  Bride,  and  in  thee  there  is  no  guile.  Thou 
art  the  blessed  Dove,  the  Mother  of  God,  the  Queen, 
the  Mother  of  the  Living  King,  Who  hath  appeared 
from  thee,  and  Who  shall  become  the  life  of  the  world. 
Blessed,  moreover,  are  we,  for  we  have  seen  our  Lord 
born  in  the  flesh.' 

Then  Saint  Gabriel  drew  nigh  unto  me  with  his 
shining  and  joyful  countenance,  and  he  bowed  down 
before  me,  and  said  unto  me,  "  This  is  He  of  Whom^  I 
told  thee,  and  concerning  Whom  I  brought  thee  glad 
tidings  in  the  times  that  are  past,  saying  that  He  would 
appear  through  thee,  and  that  He  would  give  mercy 
and  strength  unto  all  the  peoples  who  shall  believe  in 
His  Name,  and  render  service  unto  His  glory."  Then 
came  Joseph,  and  with  him  were  Salome  and  the  mid- 
wife, and  when  they  had  seen  what  had  happened  they 
rejoiced  with  a  great  joy.  And  when  the  midwife  saw 
the  Child  in  the  stable  she  bowed  down  unto  Him,  and 
she  lifted  Him  up  in  her  arms,  and  said,  "  Blessed  am  I 
whose  eyes  have  seen  Thy  joy  this  day,  O  Thou  Who 
hast  come  into  the  world  to  forgive  the  sins  of  sinners, 
of  whom  am  L"  And  she  turned  towards  me  and  said 
unto  me,  "  Blessed  art  thou,  O  Mother  of  God,  con- 

64 


by  Theophiliis^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

cerning  whom  the  Prophets  have  cried,  saying  :  Our 
God  shall  appear  from  a  virgin.  As  for  me,  I  am  thine 
handmaiden.  And  I  will  never  separate  myself  from 
thee,  and  I  will  minister  unto  thee  until  I  die." 

Then  came  the  shepherds  unto  whom  He  had  ap- 
peared in  the  light,  and  they  bowed  down  in  adoration 
before  Him  in  the  stable,  and  they  cried  out,  and  said, 
"  Thou  art  the  Saviour  of  the  world,  even  as  they  have 
told  us,  and  Thou  art  indeed  the  Son  of  God.  Blessed 
are  we  who  have  seen  the  glory  of  Thy  Godhead,  be- 
cause we  were  swift  to  come  as  soon  as  we  heard  [of 
Thee]."  And  they  drew  nigh  unto  me,  and  they  bowed 
low  before  me,  and  they  said  unto  me,  "  Blessed  art 
thou  above  all  the  women  that  are  upon  the  earth. 
And  blessed  is  thy  womb  which  bare  Him,  and  blessed 
are  thy  breasts  which  suckled  Him,  for  thou  hast  given 
birth  for  our  sakes  to  Him  that  is  the  Life  of  the 
World."  And  all  the  companies  of  the  angels  that  were 
there  declared  what  they  had  seen  and  heard,  saying, 
"  Glory  to  God  in  the  heavens.  Let  there  be  peace  on 
the  earth  unto  the  children  of  men  with  whom  He  is 
pleased  "  ;  and  every  one  who  heard  marvelled,  and  I 
said,  "  What  shall  I  become  ?  " 

And  after  these  things,  on  the  eighth  day.  He  came 
that  they  might  circumcise  Him  according  to  the  Law 
of  the  Jews  ;  and  they  called  His  Name  Jesus,  accord- 
ing to  what  the  Angel  had  said  unto  me  before  I  had 
conceived  Him.  And  in  those  days  there  came  certain 
men  who  were  Magians  from  the  country  of  the  East, 
and  they  were  making  enquiries  in  the  cities  and  dis- 
tricts round  about,  saying,  "  Where  is  Christ  born  ? 
For  we  have  seen  His  star  in  the  East,  and  we  have 
come  to  worship  Him."  When  Herod  heard  this  he 
was  greatly  moved,  together  with  [the  people]  of  all  the 
borders  of  Jerusalem.  Then  Herod  gathered  together 
all  the  nobles,  and  the  priests,  and  the  scribes,  and  the 
elders  of  the  people,  and  he  asked  them,  saying,  "Where 

F  65 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary  related 

is  Christ  born  ?  And  when  was  His  appointed  time  ?  " 
And  they  said  unto  him,  "  He  hath  been  born  in  these 
[last]  days,  in  Bethlehem  of  Judea,  even  as  the  prophet 
Micah  saith,  And  thou,  Bethlehem  of  the  country  of 
Ephratah,  art  not  the  least  of  the  provinces  of  Judah, 
for  from  thee  shall  go  forth  the  King  Who  shall  rule 
My  people  Israel  "  (Micah  v,  2).  Then  Herod  said 
unto  the  Magians,  "  Go  ye  and  seek  out  the  Child,  and 
when  ye  have  found  Him  come  and  tell  me,  that  I  may 
worship  Him  " — not  that  he  wanted  to  worship  Him, 
but  in  order  that  he  might  kill  Him  ;  for  he  thought 
that  the  Child  was  an  earthly  being,  and  that  His  king- 
dom was  earthly.  And  when  the  Magians  had  heard 
those  things  from  the  king  they  went  forth  to  seek  for 
the  Child.  Now  that  star  which  guided  them  from 
their  own  country,  until  it  brought  them  unto  the 
place  where  my  beloved  Son  was,  left  them  and  was  no 
more  seen.  And  when  they  had  entered  into  [the 
stable]  they  saw  the  Child  in  my  arms,  and  they  wor- 
shipped Him,  and  with  joy  and  gladness  they  brought 
forth  gifts  of  gold,  frankincense,  and  myrrh  ;  and  they 
cried  out,  saying,  "  Blessed  be  the  Great  King  Who 
shall  destroy  the  kingdoms  of  the  earth.  And  more- 
over. Thou  shalt  descend  into  the  earth,  and  thou  shalt 
bind  Satan  in  chains,  even  according  to  what  we  have 
found  in  the  Book  of  the  Prophets  and  wise  Fathers." 
And  that  night  they  slept  [there],  thinking  that  on  the 
morrow  they  would  go  to  Herod  and  tell  him  that  they 
had  found  the  Child  and  His  mother.  But  the  Angel 
of  the  Lord  appeared  and  said  unto  them,  "  Get  ye  to 
your  own  country  in  peace  "  ;  and  they  went  there 
according  as  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  had  said  unto  them. 
Now  when  forty  days  were  ended  we  brought  Him 
up  to  the  Temple  that  they  might  do  unto  Him  [ac- 
cording to]  the  Law  of  Moses,  and  according  as  they 
are  wont  to  do  unto  the  children  of  Israel.  And  when 
we  had  brought  Him  into  the  house  of  the  Sanctuary 

6^ 


by  Theophihis^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

[we  found]  there  a  priest  whose  name  was  Simeon,  and 
he  was  waiting  to  see  the  Saviour  before  he  died.  And 
I  gave  him  the  Child,  and  he  took  Him  and  carried  Him 
in  his  arms,  and  he  blessed  Him  and  bore  him  round 
about  in  the  Temple.  Now  he  was  a  blind  man,  and 
my  beloved  Son  opened  his  eyes  when  He  saw  him. 
And  Simeon  opened  his  mouth  and  said,  "  Now 
straightway  let  Thy  servant  depart  in  peace,  O  Lord, 
according  as  Thou  hast  commanded  ;  for  mine  eyes 
have  seen  Thy  Salvation  which  Thou  hast  prepared  be- 
fore all  Thy  people.  [To  be  a  light  to  lighten  the  Gen- 
tiles, and  to  be]  the  glory  of  Thy  people  Israel."  And 
when  he  had  ended  these  words  he  gave  me  the  Child, 
and  we  came  [back]  in  peace  with  joy  and  gladness ;  and 
the  old  man  Simeon  the  priest  died  on  that  same  day. 

And  Herod  waited  two  years  for  the  Magians  to  re- 
turn unto  him,  but  they  came  not  back,  for  they  had 
returned  to  their  native  land  ;  and  Herod  was  greatly 
moved,  and  he  and  all  his  servants  were  afraid.  Then 
Satan  appeared  unto  him  by  night  in  the  form  of  a  wise 
man,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Wherefore  remainest  thou 
[thus  idle]  ?  For  thou  and  all  thy  kingdom  shall  be  de- 
stroyed." And  Herod  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
"  What  shall  I  do  ?  "  Then  Satan  said  unto  him,  "  On 
the  morrow,  early  in  the  morning,  send  thy  servants 
and  command  them  not  to  leave  [alive]  in  Bethlehem 
any  child  which  is  two  years  old  and  under,  and  let 
them  slay  them  ;  and  as  the  Child  [Jesus]  shall  be  found 
among  those  who  shall  be  slain,  He  shall  not  grow  up 
and  shall  not  take  thy  kingdom."  Now  on  that  day  the 
Angel  of  God  appeared  unto  Joseph,  and  said  unto  him, 
"  Rise  up,  and  take  the  Child  and  His  mother,  and  de- 
part unto  the  country  of  Egypt  until  I  give  thee  His 
word;  for  Herod  seeketh  the  Child  to  slay  Him."  Then 
straightway  we  rose  up  and  departed  into  the  country 
of  Egypt,  and  Salome  was  with  us. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that,  when  the  morrowhad  come, 

67 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary  related 

Herod  commanded  them  to  slay  the  children  In  Beth- 
lehem and  in  all  the  borders  thereof  and  in  all  the  dis- 
tricts thereof,  in  accordance  with  the  information  that 
he  had  obtained  from  the  Magians,  and  according  to 
the  word  of  Satan,  the  father  of  all  iniquity.  So  we 
rose  up  [and  went]  on  our  way,  and  Joseph  was  in  front 
of  me.  And  I  carried  my  Child  sometimes  on  my 
shoulders,  and  sometimes  on  my  back,  and  sometimes 
in  my  arms,  and  by  reason  of  the  length  of  the  way,  and 
the  weariness  of  the  journey,  Salome  [carried  Him]  in 
turn.  Then,  sometimes,  I  set  Him  down  upon  the 
ground  that  He  might  follow  me,  even  as  do  women 
when  they  teach  their  children  to  walk,  for  I  was  a  deli- 
cate woman,  and  it  had  not  been  my  lot  to  toil  hard. 
And  He  would  walk  along  a  little  way  at  a  time,  hold- 
ing on  to  the  hem  of  my  skirt,  and  then,  like  all  children 
who  cry  out  to  their  mothers  to  carry  them.  He  ex- 
pected me  to  carry  Him  ;  and  I  did  so  immediately  on 
my  back.  Then  I  would  embrace  Him  and  would  re- 
joice in  His  walking,  and  at  the  same  time  I  cast  im- 
precations upon  Herod,  and  cursed  him  and  all  his 
kingdom,  because  he  had  treated  innocent  and  sinless 
children  in  such  a  cruel  manner,  and  had  slain  them,  and 
had  put  sorrow  into  the  breasts  of  their  mothers  and 
fathers.  NowwhenJosephsawSalome carrying theChild 
upon  her  shoulders  he  would  carry  our  food  for  the  way. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that,  when  we  arrived  in  the 
country  of  Egypt,  we  sat  down  outside  a  city,  under  the 
shadow  of  a  tree,  so  that  we  might  rest  from  the  heat  of 
the  sun,  for  the  season  was  summer,  and  the  day  was 
the  twenty-seventh  of  the  month  Genbot  (May  22)  ; 
now  Joseph  and  Salome  slept  by  reason  of  the  weariness 
of  the  way,  but  I  suckled  my  Child.  Now  His  apparel 
was  in  colour  like  wine,  being  the  same  as  mine  own 
wherein  my  father  and  my  mother  arrayed  me  when 
they  brought  me  into  the  house  of  the  Sanctuary,  and 
since  the  time  when  I  first  put  it  on  I  had  never  taken 

68 


PLATE   XIX 


Lady  Mciix  MS.  No.  2,  fol.  38(7. 


Mary  rescuing   from  devils  the  souls  of  two  scribes   who  had    sinned 
whilst  copying  her  Book  of  Miracles 


by  Theophilus^  Patriarch  of  Alexa7idria 

it  off,  and  the  sandals  that  were  on  the  feet  of  my  Son 
were  like  unto  gold.  And  behold,  on  that  road  [we 
met]  two  thieves,  one  of  whom  belonged  to  the  country 
of  Egypt,  and  the  other  to  the  country  of  the  Hebrews. 
And  the  Hebrew  said  unto  the  Egyptian,  "  I  wish  to 
carry  off  the  apparel  of  this  woman  and  that  of  her  Son, 
for  it  is  like  unto  royal  raiment.  H  we  had  met  them 
in  the  desert  I  would  have  taken  it,  but  they  are  nigh 
unto  a  city."  Then  the  Egyptian  said  unto  his  com- 
panion, "  Let  them  alone  and  let  us  depart,  for  I  have 
not  seen  such  a  child  as  this  since  I  was  born."  Now 
whilst  they  were  talking  in  this  wise  I  took  out  my 
breast  and  suckled  the  Child,  for  I  wished  to  give  Him 
milk  to  drink,  and  when  I  looked  round  about  me  I 
found  them  not.  Then  I  rose  up  and  took  the  Child 
into  the  city,  and  asked  the  women  thereof  to  give  Him 
some  water  to  drink  ;  but  there  was  none  who  gave  me 
any,  for  the  people  of  that  city  were  without  mercy. 
Now  when  the  thieves  saw  that  I  had  gone  away  they 
came  back  and,  going  into  the  place  where  Joseph  was 
sleeping,  they  carried  off  the  shoes  of  my  Son.  And 
when  I  returned  I  woke  up  Joseph  and  Salome,  and  I 
said  unto  them,  "  Rise  up,  and  let  us  depart  from  this 
city,  for  the  people  thereof  have  no  mercy.  I  sought 
for  water,  but  there  was  none  who  would  give  me  any. 
I  have  lost  nothing  except  the  sandals  of  my  Son  which 
the  thieves  have  taken."  Now  as  I  said  these  words  I 
wept,  and  when  my  beloved  Son  saw  my  weeping  He 
sought  [to  stay]  my  tears  with  His  hand.  And  He 
thrust  His  fingers  down  into  the  ground  a  little  way, 
and  forthwith  beautiful  water  welled  up  ;  and  we  drank 
thereof.  Now  the  water  was  as  sweet  as  honey  and  as 
white  as  milk.  Then  He  made  the  sign  of  the  Cross 
over  the  water,  and  said,  "  Let  this  water  be  unto  every 
one  who  wisheth  to  drink  thereof  healing  and  pleasant, 
except  unto  the  people  of  this  city  ;  unto  them  let  it 
be  as  gall  in  their  mouths,  and  let  not  any  one  of  them 

69 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

have  benefit  therefrom."  Then  when  we  had  eaten  a 
Httle  food  I  took  my  beloved  Child  upon  my  back,  and 
we  rose  up  to  depart.  And  straightway  their  temples 
fell  down  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  and  not  one  of 
them  was  left  [standing],  and  the  idols  thereof  were 
broken  and  dashed  to  pieces  ;  and  in  like  manner  the 
gods  thereof  were  thrown  down,  one  upon  the  other, 
and  were  broken. 

Now,  as  we  were  making  our  way  up  into  Egypt  the 
mountains  and  the  wild  beasts  came  and  worshipped 
my  Son,  and  when  we  journeyed  onwards  they  also 
journeyed  with  us.  Then  my  Son  turned  towards  them, 
and  placing  His  right  hand  upon  the  mountain  that 
was  towards  the  East,  and  His  left  hand  upon  the  moun- 
tain that  was  towards  the  West,  said  unto  them,  "Stand 
ye  still,  and  behold,  make  firm  your  roots  deep  in  the 
rock  like  things  fixed  therein  "  ;  and  thus  do  they 
appear  unto  this  day.  And  He  said  unto  them,  "  Be 
ye  a  sign  unto  those  who  shall  not  believe  in  Me  and 
unto  those  who  shall  deny  My  coming,  and  unto  the 
sinful  Jews,  and  unto  Herod  the  accursed  and  his  king- 
dom, and  unto  all  those  who  shall  not  believe  in  My 
holy  Name."  And  He  said  unto  these  mountains,  "  Ye 
have  recognized  Me,  and  ye  have  believed  on  Me,  O 
things  that  have  neither  soul  nor  body,  but  the  kings 
whom  I  have  created  in  Mine  own  form  and  likeness 
believe  not  in  Me,  and  they  will  not  render  homage 
unto  My  glory.  Those  for  whose  sake  I  have  come  into 
the  world  will  neither  pay  homage  unto  Me  nor  receive 
Me  ;  nay,  they  seek  to  slay  Me,  and  I  have  been  [con- 
strained to]  come  and  stay  in  this  country.  But  My 
Name  and  that  of  My  pure  mother  shall  be  magnified 
and  glorified  from  generation  unto  generation." 

And  next  we  arrived  in  the  city  of  Ashmunen,^  where 

^  The  capital  of  the  15th  nome  of  Upper  Egypt,  which  lay  on  the 
west  bank  of  the  Nile  about  182  miles  south  of  Memphis.  The  town 
was  the  centre  of  the  cult  of  the  old  Egyptian  god  Thoth,  the  scribe 

70 


by  Theophilus^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

in  the  forepart  of  the  gate  was  a  huge  building  which, 
with  its  four  towers/  reared  itself  above  the  city,  and 
it,  too,  fell  down  and  was  broken,  because  they  wor- 
shipped idols  therein.  Then  our  Lord  Jesus  said,"  Thou 
shalt  be  the  sign  (or,  memorial)  of  this  city  and  of  the 
people  thereof  for  ever  "  ;  and  this  took  place  even  as 
He  said,  for  the  fortress  became  a  ruin,  [and  it  remain- 
eth  so]  unto  this  day.  And  there  was  a  tree^  in  that 
place,  and  it  bowed  down  at  the  feet  of  my  Son  and 
said  unto  Him,  "  Prosperous  be  Thy  coming,  O  Jesus, 
Thou  Son  of  God  !  "  And  the  Lord  answered  and  said 
unto  it,  "  No  worm  shall  ever  enter  into  thee,  and  thou 
shalt  keep  in  memory  My  coming  into  this  city  to-day." 
And  all  the  people,  from  the  greatest  to  the  least,  mar- 
velled at  the  glory  that  was  on  my  Son,  and  said,  "  We 
have  never  at  any  time  seen  a  Child  like  unto  this." 

Now  as  we  were  passing  on  through  one  of  the  market 
places  of  the  city,  behold,  five  camels  crowded  us  on  the 
road,  and  when  my  Son  saw  them  He  said  unto  them, 
"  Stand  still  "  ;  and  they  became  stones  even  unto  this 
day. 3    And  there  was  a  certain  man  whose  name  was 

of  the  gods ;  the  Greeks  identified  this  god  with  Hermes  and  called 
his  city  Hermopolis  Magna.  The  Coptic  name  of  the  town,  "Shmoun," 
represents  the  old  Egyptian  "  Khemen,"  or  "  Khemenu,"  whence  also 
comes  the  Arabic  name  Ashmun. 

^  These  towers  were  probably  the  pylons  of  the  temple  of  Thoth, 
the  ruins  of  which  were  to  be  seen  at  Ashmunen  until  the  early  Middle 
Ages. 

2  According  to  Abu  Salih  (ed.  Evetts,  p.  222)  there  was  outside  the 
church  a  Syrian  tree  bearing  the  fruit  called  "  sebestan,"  which  is  of 
a  red  colour.  The  tree  stood  near  the  ancient  temple.  The  governor 
of  the  town  wished  to  cut  it  down  ;  but  the  patriarch  Agatho  was 
standing  under  the  tree,  and  when  the  woodman  struck  it  with  his  axe, 
the  axe  flew  back  into  his  face  and  wounded  him  grievously. 

^  Abu  Salih  (pp.  220,  221)  says  :  It  is  said  that  there  was  on  the 
highest  point  of  the  town  a  cock,  and  beneath  it  a  row  of  dromedaries. 
When  a  stranger  approached  the  town  the  cock  crowed,  and  the  drome- 
daries came  out  to  destroy  that  stranger.  But  when  our  Lord  Christ, 
to  Whom  be  glory  !  came  to  this  town,  the  cock  crowed  and  the  drome- 
daries went  out,  according  to  their  custom.    And  when  they  saw  the 

71 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary  related 

Teflem,  upon  whom  was  the  mercy  of  God,  and  he  re- 
ceived us  and  made  us  to  abide  in  his  house  ;  and  all  the 
idols  [therein]  fell  down  and  were  broken  to  pieces. 
Then  all  the  ministrants  of  the  gods  were  afraid,  and 
they  hid  themselves  in  their  houses.  Now  when  the 
morning  had  come  all  the  people  gathered  themselves 
together  to  the  place  wherein  we  were,  and  [among 
them]  were  many  who  were  dumb,  and  deaf,  and  sick 
of  every  kind  of  disease.  And  my  Son  laid  His  hand 
upon  them  and  healed  them  of  all  their  sicknesses,  and 
He  wrought  in  that  city  many  miracles,  the  which  if  I 
were  to  describe  them  to  thee,  no  paper  would  be  suffi- 
cient to  contain  them.  Then  multitudes  of  people 
came  to  us  and  pressed  upon  us,  by  reason  of  the 
miracles  which  He  wrought  that  day. 

And  we  departed  from  that  place  and  came  unto  a 
city  the  name  of  which  is  Pantos  (Funkus  ?),  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof  were  humane  and  we  abode  there  : 
and  my  Son  wrought  innumerable  miracles  therein. 
And  He  said,  "  My  Name,  and  the  name  of  My  mother 
Mary,  shall  be  in  this  city  even  to  the  most  remote 
days."  And  they  brought  those  who  were  suffering 
from  sickness  and  diseases  unto  Him,  and  in  His  abun- 
dant mercy  He  healed  them.  And  a  certain  man  who 
was  a  blacksmith  heard  [of  these  things],  and  he  came 
unto  us — now  he  belonged  to  [one  of]  the  greatest  fami- 
lies in  Jerusalem — and  he  made  the  old  man  Joseph  and 
us  also  to  take  up  our  abode  in  his  house  ;  and  he  had 
a  son  who  was  possessed  of  a  mighty  devil.  And  it  came 
to  pass  that  his  devil  returned  unto  him  on  that  day, 
and  as  soon  as  he  saw  the  Child,  he  cried  out  to  Him, 
and  said,  "  What  have  I  to  do  with  Thee,  O  Jesus,  the 
Nazarene  ?    Hast  Thou  come  unto  us  to  condemn  us  ? 

Lord  Christ  and  the  Lady,  and  Joseph  the  carpenter,  they  worshipped 
them  ;  and  on  the  spot  they  were  changed  into  stone  ;  and  their  num- 
ber was  five.  On  this  island  there  are  300  villages.  Our  Lord  entered 
by  the  eastern  gate.    Here  the  dromedaries  worshipped  Him. 

72 


by  Theophiliis^  Patriarxh  of  Alexandria 

We  left  Jerusalem  through  Thee  and  fled  to  this  city, 
and  Thou  hast  followed  after  us  to  judge  us,  for  indeed 
Thou  art  the  Son  of  God."  Then  Jesus  said  unto  him, 
"  Make  an  end  [of  thy  words]  and  go  forth  out  of 
him  "  ;  and  straightway  the  young  man  recovered  from 
his  sickness.  And  he  and  his  father  and  mother  rose  up 
and  worshipped,  saying,  "  Blessed  are  we,  in  that  we 
have  been  considered  worthy  of  this  act  of  grace  above 
all  [other]  folk,  for  although  we  are  sinners  Thou  hast 
come  into  our  house  " — now  when  we  came  in  the 
blessing  of  God  came  unto  them.  And  very  many 
people  in  that  place  believed  when  they  saw  the 
miracle  that  the  Lord  Jesus  had  wrought. 

Then  the  nobles  of  the  city  enquired  of  the  priests 
of  the  gods,  and  said  unto  them,  "Wherefore  do  ye  hide 
yourselves  and  forsake  your  gods  ?  "  And  the  priests 
said,  "  From  the  moment  when  this  woman  and  her 
Child  came  [here],  the  idols  have  been  broken  in  pieces, 
and  the  temples  of  the  gods  have  fallen  down ;  although 
we  keep  watch  over  them  during  the  night  yet  in  the 
morning  they  are  broken  in  pieces."  Then  the  nobles 
of  the  city  sent  for  us  to  be  taken  to  them,  but  we  with- 
drew into  the  chambers  in  the  upper  part  of  the  house. 
Then  the  priests  seized  the  master  of  the  house,  and 
took  him  before  the  nobles  of  the  city,  who  said  unto 
him,  "  Where  are  the  people  who  were  living  in  thy 
house  ?  "  And  he  said  unto  them,  "  It  is  three  days 
this  day  since  they  departed  from  my  house,  and  I  know 
not  where  they  are  "  ;  and,  although  they  scourged 
him,  he  said  nothing  whatsoever  except,  "  I  know  not 
where  they  are."  And  when  he  came  forth  from  the 
elders  of  the  city  he  told  me  what  had  taken  place  be- 
fore them. 

And  in  the  morning  we  departed  from  them  and  we 
arrived  at  a  city  the  name  of  which  was  Kuesya,^  and 

^  Probably  Munyatu  bu  Kais,  the  Mone  of  the  Copts  and  the  Men-t 
of  the  ancient  Egyptians,  i.e.  the  metropolis  of  the  l6th  nome  of 

73 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

therein  was  a  temple  whereon  stood  a  statue  with  seven 
steps  ;  and  those  who  ministered  unto  the  statue 
allowed  none  except  a  noble  of  the  city  to  enter  into 
the  temple.  Now  the  statue  was  wont  to  step  forward 
and  to  bow  to  those  who  made  offerings  [in  the  temple]. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  we  had  arrived  at  the 
gates  of  the  city  the  pedestal  with  seven  steps  and  the 
statue  that  was  on  them  were  overturned,  and  the 
statue  fell  to  the  ground  and  was  broken  in  pieces. 
Then  the  devil  that  was  in  the  statue  cried  out  and  said 
unto  the  priests,  ^'  If  ye  do  not  go  to  this  woman  and 
her  Son,  and  the  old  man  who  travelleth  with  her,  and 
the  woman  [Salome],  and  drive  them  away  whensoever 
they  would  enter  into  this  city,  your  occupation  will  be 
destroyed,  and  in  three  days'  time  they  will  make  you 
to  go  forth  [from  your  temple].  And  I  warn  you  that 
they  will  come  into  your  country,  for  they  seek  [to  in- 
vade] all  the  provinces  of  Egypt,  and  when  they  have 
once  entered  into  this  city,  the  temple  of  the  gods  shall 
be  overthrown,  and  the  work  of  our  city  shall  be  de- 
stroyed, and  our  enemies  shall  rise  up  against  us  and 
make  an  end  of  our  city,  and  our  glory  shall  be  cast  to 
the  ground."  Then  when  the  priests  of  the  gods  had 
heard  these  things  they  appointed  one  hundred  men  to 
come  against  us  with  sticks  and  staves,  and  they  cursed 
and  reviled  us  exceedingly,  and  said,  "  What  want  ye 
here  with  us  ?  Get  ye  gone,  lest  our  soldiers  come  and 
slay  you,  for  our  gods  have  told  us  that  our  city  shall 
be  destroyed  through  you  "  ;  and  their  women  and 
children  came  forth  and  reviled  and  cursed  us.  Then  I 
took  my  Son  in  my  arms  and  departed,  being  sorrowful, 
and  I  wept,  and  my  heart  was  sad  because  the  people 
would  neither  receive  us  nor  let  us  dwell  [in  their  city]. 

Upper  Egypt,  the  modern  Minyah,  which  lies  on  the  west  bank  of  the 
Nile,  and  is  about  157  miles  south  of  Memphis  (or,  Cairo.)  In  Coptic 
times  the  town  contained  several  churches,  two  dedicated  to  the  Virgin, 
one  to  St.  George,  and  one  to  St.  Michael. 

74 


by  Theophilus^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  we  had  departed  from 
the  city,  the  name  of  which  was  "  Kuesya,"  my  Son 
turned  and  cursed  it  and  said  unto  the  inhabitants 
thereof,  "  Ye  shall  be  the  fewest  in  number,  and  the 
feeblest,  and  the  most  despised  of  all  the  peoples  of 
Egypt.  Nothing  shall  increase  in  your  land  except  toil 
and  the  workings  of  the  sorcerer,  and  your  country 
shall  not  be  fertile,  and  your  priests  shall  not  increase 
in  numbers,  but  shall  follow  each  other  only  one  by 
one.  And  the  blessing  of  My  Mother  shall  not  be 
upon  you  ;  and  according  to  that  which  hath  gone 
forth  from  My  mouth  even  so  shall  your  land  be." 
And  having  said  these  words  He  went  on  His  way. 

And  we  travelled  onwards  and  sat  down  to  rest  our- 
selves a  little.  Now  there  was  a  staff  of  olive  wood  in 
the  hand  of  Joseph,  and  Jesus  took  it  in  His  holy  hand, 
and  planted  it  in  the  ground  in  that  place,  and  said, 
"  It  shall  be  a  blessing  unto  the  people  of  this  place  for 
ever,  and  a  memorial  of  My  journeying  along  this  road." 
Then  straightway  the  twigs  on  the  stick  budded  and 
became  green,  and  it  bore  fruit  even  as  it  had  done 
upon  the  tree  in  times  past.  And  we  wished  to  go  for- 
ward on  our  way.  Now  there  were  very  many  fields 
round  about  the  place  where  we  were,  and  Joseph, 
pointing  with  his  finger,  said,  "  Unto  which  village 
shall  we  go  ?  For  the  day  hath  waned  into  evening, 
and  the  night  hath  come."  And  I  said  unto  him,  "  Let 
us  not  journey  on  through  the  fields,  but  let  us  go  out 
into  the  desert." 

And  as  we  were  going  along  by  the  side  of  a  moun- 
tain at  the  time  of  sunset,  behold,  the  two  thieves, 
whom  we  had  met  before  outside  the  city,  and  who 
had  followed  us  from  thence  to  this  place,  as  soon  as 
they  saw  us  rushed  upon  us  with  their  swords,  which 
were  drawn,  in  their  hands.  And  they  said,  "  For  many 
days  ye  have  given  us  great  trouble,  for  we  have  fol- 
lowed you,  and  we  could  not  find  where  ye  had  gone 

75 


The  Histo?y  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

until  this  day  ;  behold,  ye  have  now  fallen  into  our 
hands."  And  thus  saying  they  snatched  my  beloved 
Son  from  out  of  my  arms,  and  they  stripped  off  His 
raiment  and  mine  also,  and  they  carried  off  my  head- 
cloth,  and  then  they  turned  towards  Joseph,  who  was 
like  a  simple  sheep,  and  snatched  away  his  apparel  also. 
And  when  Salome  saw  all  these  things  happening  she 
stripped  off  her  apparel  and  cast  it  away.  Then  having 
carried  off  our  apparel  the  two  thieves  stood  a  little  dis- 
tance away,  and  held  converse,  the  one  with  the  other  ; 
and  when  I  saw  them  plotting  together  I  was  afraid 
with  a  great  fear,  and  I  said  in  my  heart,  "  They  will 
come  to  me  next  and  will  kill  my  Son."  And  I  lifted 
Him  up  in  my  arms,  and  weeping  I  laid  my  face  upon 
His,  and  said,  "  Woe  is  me,  O  my  beloved  Son  ! 
Whither  shall  I  escape  from  this  hour  ?  Whither  shall 
I  run  ?  I  fled  with  Thee  from  Jerusalem  through  fear 
of  the  enemy  Herod,  lest  they  should  kill  Thee,  O  my 
beloved  Son.  O  my  Son,  beloved  One  of  my  soul,  it  is 
better  for  me  to  go  down  into  mine  own  country  and 
to  die  than  to  see  all  [this]  suffering.  And  behold,  I  am 
afraid  lest  those  who  are  more  wicked  than  Herod  lay 
hands  upon  Thee.  It  is  better  for  me  to  be  in  Bethle- 
hem with  those  who  know  Joseph  than  to  be  making 
supplication  unto  them  (i.e.  the  thieves)  on  Thy  be- 
half, that  they  slay  Thee  not.  O  my  beloved  Son,  it  is 
a  calamity  unto  me  that  I  am  a  virgin  and  of  no  ac- 
count, and  that  I  know  nothing  of  all  these  things.  O 
Light  of  mine  eyes,  whom  do  I  know  in  this  country  ? 
And  behold,  I  am  in  the  wilderness,  and  I  know  neither 
place  nor  city  whither  I  can  go.  Where  are  all  those 
who  know  me  ?  All  the  women  who  have  borne  chil- 
dren would  weep  with  me  if  they  saw  this  day  the 
sorrow  and  the  tribulation  which  have  come  upon  me, 
and  the  fear  which  hath  entered  into  my  heart  and 
mind  this  day.  O  my  beloved  Son,  did  not  I  endure 
hardship  with  Thee  when  I  was  fleeing  lest  evil  should 

76 


by  Theophilus^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

befall  Thee,  O  Thou  Light  of  mine  eyes,  and  when 
they  drove  me  from  one  place  unto  another  and  cast 
me  forth  from  the  city  and  the  fields  [about  it]  ?  O  my 
Son,  what  shall  I  do  if  I  see  them  kill  Thee  in  this 
place  ?  Great  would  be  the  grief  that  I  should  feel 
should  I  see  it  ;  and  if  they  slay  Thee  here  I  shall  kill 
myself  with  mine  own  hand.  And  what  should  I  do 
without  the  sweet  and  gracious  words  that  Thou  dost 
speak  unto  us  each  day  ?  What  shall  I  do,  O  Thou 
Light  of  mine  eyes,  Thou  Life  of  my  soul  and  body  ? 
When  I  see  the  women  who  are  suckling  their  children 
at  their  breasts,  I  wish  that  the  women,  whose  children 
Herod  slaughtered  at  their  very  breasts,  could  weep  for 
them  this  day  with  me.  It  would  be  better  for  me  to 
be  in  Jerusalem  or  in  Bethlehem,  but  then  I  should  not 
find  many  to  lament  their  children  with  me.  Where 
are  my  holy  fathers  and  the  prophets,  that  they  may 
weep  with  me  this  day  ?  I  would  that  the  Angel  who 
announced  to  me  concerning  Thy  birth  could  see  my 
lamentation,  and  that  Elisabeth,  who  belonged  to  my 
family,  and  her  son  John  could  be  with  me  and  see  the 
sorrow  of  my  heart.  O  Lord,  have  mercy  upon  me  in 
the  matter  of  my  death,  and  be  not  silent  concerning 
my  sorrow." 

Now  whilst  I  was  pouring  out  lamentation  in  this 
wise,  and  was  weeping,  and  my  tears  were  streaming 
down  my  cheeks,  and  those  of  my  Son,  one  of  the 
thieves  saw  our  weeping,  and  his  bowels  were  moved, 
and  he  spake  unto  the  Jew,  and  said  unto  him,  "  I  be- 
seech thee,  O  my  brother  and  friend,  not  to  carry  off 
the  apparel  of  these  wayfarers,  for  I  see  on  their  faces  a 
light  which  is  brighter  than  that  which  is  on  the  faces 
of  all  other  people  ;  and  as  for  this  Child,  He  is  like 
unto  the  son  of  a  king,  and  I  have  never  seen  any  other 
child  who  is  like  unto  Him."  And  the  Jew  said,  "  I 
will  not  hearken  unto  thee  this  day  ;  nay,  I  will  take 
their  apparel,  for  it  is  the  raiment  of  kings,  and  [the 

77 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

merchants]  will  give  me  much  money  for  it."  And 
when  the  Jew  refused  him  [his  request],  and  his  com- 
panion [the  Egyptian]  was  unable  to  turn  him,  the 
Egyptian  said  unto  the  Jew,  "  From  the  time  when  we 
were  in  Bethlehem  until  this  day  we  have  robbed  to- 
gether. Last  night  we  obtained  much  booty,  and  the 
portion  that  is  my  share  shall  be  thine,  only  let  me  keep 
the  apparel  of  these  wayfarers  as  my  own  possession,  so 
that  I  may  give  it  back  to  them  ;  for  it  is  hard  for  me 
[to  see]  this  Child  standing  more  naked  than  any  other 
child  of  man."  And  when  he  had  spoken  in  this  wise 
the  Jew  said,  "  Take  the  apparel "  ;  and  he  took  it  from 
him  and  gave  it  unto  us,  and  I  dressed  my  Son  therein 
joyfully.  Now  when  my  beloved  Son  saw  him  do  this 
He  made  the  sign  of  the  Cross  over  him  with  His 
fingers,  and  the  two  thieves  departed  together.  Then 
Jesus  said  unto  me,  "  Seest  thou  these  two  thieves  ? 
They  shall  be  crucified  with  Me,  one  on  My  right  hand 
and  one  on  My  left,  in  Jerusalem  by  the  Jews.  And 
the  thief  on  whom  it  hath  been  in  My  heart  [to  shew] 
the  mercy  of  My  Good  Father  shall  believe  on  Me  on 
the  wood  of  the  Cross,  and  he  shall  enter  into  the 
Garden  (i.e.  Paradise)  at  the  head  of  Adam  and  his 
seed.  And  as  for  this  place  where  they  stripped  Me 
naked,  and  where  thou  hast  wept  over  Me  with  the 
sweet  tears  of  thine  eyes,  it  shall  be  a  healing  of  every 
person  who  is  sick  and  ill  and  who  washeth  therein,  and 
I  will  give  them  life  because  of  the  green  grass  and 
herbs  that  are  therein.  And  thy  tears,  which  have 
fallen  upon  My  body  and  dropped  upon  the  ground, 
shall  give  them  life,  and  they  shall  arrive  in  their  own 
countries  with  joy  and  gladness." 

And  when  He  had  said  these  words  the  night  fell,  and 
Joseph  chided  me,  and  said  unto  me,  ''  I  wanted  to  go 
on  into  the  village,  but  thou  wouldst  not  hearken  unto 
me,  and  therefore  we  have  come  into  this  desert  place, 
and  darkness  hath  fallen  upon  us,  and  we  know  not 

78 


PLATE  XX 


Lady  Meux  MS.  2V0.  2,  fol.  276_ 


The  Virgin  removing  a  monastery  from  an  unsuitable  place  to  the  side 

of  a  stream 


by  Theophihcs^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

whither  we  are  going.  But  God  hath  delivered  His 
people,  for  if  He  had  not  done  so  the  thieves  would 
have  killed  us."  And  at  that  moment  My  Son  looked 
into  Joseph's  face,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Speak  not,  O 
My  father,  to  My  Mother  in  this  wise.  It  was  the  wish 
of  the  Good  God  that  I  should  become  man  ;  it  is 
not  for  you  to  give  Me  commands,  for  it  is  I  Who  give 
commandments  to  the  whole  world,  but  I  will  go 
whithersoever  thou  wishest."  And  having  said  these 
words  we  went  up  into  a  mountain,  and  we  came  into 
this  house,  and  I  stood  up  therein,  and  I  put  my  Son 
down  upon  the  ground  from  my  bosom.  And  when 
He  stood  up  on  His  holy  feet  upon  the  ground  He 
lifted  up  His  hands,  and  at  that  moment  the  house 
shone  with  light  as  though  the  sun  had  risen  therein  ; 
and  I  gave  thanks  unto  God  Who  had  delivered  us  and 
brought  us  to  this  place  and  had  saved  us  from  the 
doers  of  iniquity  and  violence.  And  we  took  up  our 
abode  therein  joyfully,  and  we  blessed  God  the  whole 
night  long. 

And  in  the  morning  we  found  a  cistern  of  water,  and 
we  rejoiced  because  we  could  drink  and  could  wash  the 
Child,  and  I  took  Him  to  the  cistern,  and  He  stretched 
out  His  fingers  and  blessed  it,  and  it  became  full  of 
water.  And  straightway  He  opened  His  mouth  and 
blessed  it,  and  said,  "  Be  thou  sweet  in  the  mouth  of 
everyone,  and  be  thou  like  unto  the  stream  of  the  river 
of  the  land  of  Egypt  (i.e.  the  Nile).  And  it  shall  heal 
everyone  who  shall  be  a  believer  in  the  true  Faith  and 
in  it  of  his  sickness  or  disease  when  they  assemble  in 
[this]  house." 

And  we  dwelt  [there]  with  the  Child  and  Joseph,  and 
Salome  went  round  about  the  house  and  found  a 
pitcher  and  a  bucket  which  they  had  prepared  for  us  ; 
and  she  washed  the  Child  continually,  and  I  suckled 
Him  at  my  breasts.  And  they  brought  me  my  food 
from  God,  and  I  saw  the  angels  and  the  hosts  of  heaven 

79 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

worshipping  at  the  feet  of  my  beloved  Son  continually, 
whilst  my  nipple  was  in  His  mouth.  And  they  said  in 
their  own  language,  "  Blessed  be  Thou,  O  God,  Who 
hast  come  in  this  lowly  state  to  give  life  unto  Adam  and 
unto  his  seed,  because  they  are  the  work  of  Thy  hand, 
and  Thou  hast  fashioned  therein  Thine  own  image  and 
likeness.  And  blessed  be  He  Who  hath  the  pre-emi- 
nence, the  Word  Who  hath  proceeded  from  the  mouth 
of  the  Father,  the  Upholder  of  the  Universe.  And 
honour  be  unto  the  Holy  Virgin  who  was  in  labour  with 
Thee  in  giving  Thee  birth."  So  we  tarried  there,  and 
we  rested  from  the  toil  which  had  come  upon  us.  And 
the  angels  came  and  ministered  unto  us  and  made 
supplication  unto  us. 


80 


THE  NARRATIVE  OF  THE  VIRGIN  MARY  AS 
TOLD  BY  HERSELF  TO  TIMOTHY,  PATRI- 
ARCH OF  ALEXANDRIA 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  Fol.  25b  ff.] 

I  AM  Mary  the  Virgin,  the  Mother  of  God,  King  of 
the  living  and  the  dead.  I  am  the  woman  who 
was  vowed  to  God  by  her  father,  I  am  (Fol.  25b,  col.  2) 
the  daughter  of  a  barren  woman.  I  was  begotten  by 
Joachim,  who  was  from  Jerusalem,  and  like  every  man 
I  was  begotten  by  carnal  union.  And  they  vowed  me 
to  the  House  of  the  Sanctuary  (i.e.  Temple)  from  the 
breasts  of  my  mother.  And  I  learned  all  the  learning 
that  is  written  in  books  and  [the  rules  of  virginity] 
from  Zacharias  the  priest  and  Simeon,  until  the  day 
when  they  betrothed  me  to  the  holy  old  man  Joseph 
the  carpenter.  And  I  lived  in  his  house,  and  I  did  the 
work  of  my  hands  in  my  habitation  (or,  chamber). 
And  when  the  Ruler  of  all  things  looked  upon  the 
humility  of  me  His  handmaiden — my  Son  is  the  King 
of  kings — He  sent  Gabriel  unto  me,  and  behold,  he 
heard  my  voice.  He  who  is  all  truth  came  to  me 
on  the  29th  day  of  the  month  Magabit,  even  as  it  is 
written  in  the  holy  books,  and  announced  to  me  the 
coming  of  the  King  to  me.  But  how  was  it  that  I  did 
not  know  of  the  operation  of  God  in  respect  of  me  ? 
And  He  never  told  me  how  (Fol.  25b,  col.  3)  He  would 
come  unto  me,  or  when,  but  He  came  unto  me  and 
dwelt  in  me,  and  I  was  occupied  with  this  matter  all 
day  long,  and  the  matter  was  only  revealed  unto  me 
later  when  I  went  to  Elisabeth.  And  I  feared  and  mar- 
velled at  the  word  of  Gabriel  and  at  his  greatness  and 
majesty.    And  when  my  Lord  came  to  me  He  was  in 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

the  chariot  of  the  Cherubim,  and  I  knew  nothing  what- 
soever about  the  exaltedness  of  His  work,  and  I  did  not 
comprehend  in  my  mind  the  greatness  of  His  power 
that  He  had  placed  in  me.  And  I  knew  nothing  about 
the  operations  that  were  effected  in  women  nor  about 
their  desires  when  they  were  with  child.  And  I  saw  no 
sign  in  my  breasts  that  I  had  conceived,  and  my  belly 
did  not  grow  large,  and  I  did  not  remove  from  my 
body  my  habitual  apparel.  And  He  came  to  me  and  I 
knew  not  how  He  came,  and  He  dwelt  in  my  belly,  and 
I  did  not  hear  any  voice  [speaking]  to  Him,  and  I  did 
not  see  that  He  had  any  chariot,  and  (Fol.  26a,  col.  i) 
I  saw  nothing  of  His  throne.  And  I  did  not  know 
whether  He  dwelt  in  my  belly  or  not,  until  my  kins- 
woman Elisabeth  informed  me  concerning  Him,  when 
I  went  to  her  according  to  the  word  of  the  Angel 
Gabriel  to  me.  And  she  said,  "  Blessed  art  thou  among 
women,  and  blessed  is  the  fruit  of  thy  belly.  Whence 
cometh  this  to  me  that  the  mother  of  my  Lord  cometh 
to  me  ?  "  And  from  that  time  my  heart  became  strong. 
And  I  reckoned  nine  months  His  time,  like  all  women. 
And  when  I  returned  from  her  I  did  not  know  the 
appearance  of  His  coming  until  my  pearl  shone  brightly 
by  His  good  pleasure,  and  became  lighted  up  through- 
out, and  I  saw  the  splendour  of  His  light  and  heard  His 
voice.  And  I  knew  nothing  about  the  way  wherein  I 
brought  Him  forth,  nor  the  mystery  of  my  conception, 
and  I  was  ignorant  about  the  one  matter  and  the  other. 
(Fol.  26a,  col.  2)  XI.  And  that  Angel  who  brought 
the  midwife  to  me  made  a  star  to  shine  in  the  east,  and 
Wise  Men  came  to  Him,  and  praised  His  birth  of  me, 
and  they  brought  to  Him  gold,  and  frankincense,  and 
myrrh  ;  these  were  the  things  that  they  brought  for 
the  birth  of  my  Son.  First  the  incense  which  was 
brought  to  my  Son,  and  secondly  the  vessel  in  which 
it  was  offered  up  to  my  Son  on  the  day  of  His  birth  by 
the  Wise  Men,  became   the  first  Offering  that  was 

82 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

offered  up  to  the  Father  on  the  day  of  the  birth  of  my 
Son  by  the  Wise  Men,  and  He  forgave  them  their  sins, 
and  again,  the  second  libation  to  my  Son  which  as- 
cended to  the  Father  was  the  blood  of  the  children 
whom  Herod  slew,  and  it  was  this  that  raised  up  great 
terror  in  all  Israel.  And  he  slew  their  children  because 
of  my  Son  Jesus.  For  the  Wise  Men  informed  Joseph 
about  his  cunning  when  they  came  and  worshipped 
Him,  (Fol.  26a,  col.  3)  and  they  made  Joseph  take  good 
heed  that  no  one  among  the  people  knew  this  mystery. 
And  they  said  unto  him,  "  Watch  well,  and  observe 
this  Child,  and  think  well  concerning  the  matter  of 
Him.  And  take  good  heed  if  it  be  that  Herod  send  for 
thee  with  the  brethren,  or  if  he  seek  for  thee,  in  respect 
of  going  to  him  ;  for  he  will  deceive  thee,  and  he 
wisheth  to  slay  the  Child,  and  he  hath  already  given 
himself  much  trouble  about  this  matter."  And  the  old 
man  Joseph  told  me  these  words  when  he  sent  us  away 
because  of  Herod.  I  tell  thee,  O  Timothy,  I  was 
afflicted  with  grievous  sorrow  and  pain  with  my  Son. 
I  could  find  no  beasts  at  all,  and  all  day  long  I  wandered 
about,  and  I  went  from  one  place  to  another  with  Him, 
and  I  took  Him  up  and  w^ent  with  Him  to  the  houses  of 
my  neighbours  and  kinsfolk,  for  I  was  afraid  for  Him 
because  of  (Fol.  26b,  col.  i)  Herod  and  his  soldiers. 
And  when  I  heard  the  shrieks  of  the  children,  and  the 
bitter  cries  of  anguish  of  their  mothers,  it  seemed  to  me 
as  if  my  soul  must  be  torn  out  of  me,  and  I  was  afraid 
that  the  soldiers  would  come  to  me,  and  again  I  felt 
that  I  must  fly  from  house  to  house,  I  and  my  Son,  my 
darling  Jesus.  And  I  went  to  Jerusalem  to  find  the 
women  and  their  children,  and  the  women  were  with- 
out children,  and  they  were  filled  with  bitter  anger 
over  their  death.  And  I  went  to  the  Galileans,  who 
were  my  kinsfolk,  and  I  found  the  women  with  their 
clothes  rent,  and  their  heads  uncovered,  and  they  were 
wailing  and  lamenting  for  their  children.   And  I  went 

83 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary  related 

to  Bethlehem,  and  I  found  the  women,  and  their 
shrieks  reached  the  gates  of  heaven,  and  they  were 
cursing  Herod,  that  wicked  serpent.  And  I  went  (FoL 
26b,  coL  2)  to  the  land  of  Judah,  but  I  did  not  find  my 
sister  Elisabeth,  for  she  had  hidden  herself  through  fear 
of  Herod,  the  hypocritical  king.  And  in  every  place  to 
which  I  went,  from  the  borders  thereof  to  Jerusalem, 
I  found  sorrow ;  [the  mothers]  mourning  for  their  sons, 
the  children  who  had  been  slain.  One  woman  I  found 
with  the  head  of  her  child  in  her  hands,  and  the  rest  of 
his  body  was  with  the  soldiers.  Another  woman  had 
the  hand  of  her  boy.  When  they  were  going  to  kill 
him  the  mother  seized  him  thereby — he  was  her  only 
son — but  they  carried  him  off  from  her  and  killed  him, 
even  whilst  she  was  looking  on.  And  the  [murdered] 
child  of  another  woman  was  an  orphan — fatherless. 
And  another  woman  said,  "  Pain  in  my  breasts  afflicted 
me,  and  the  milk  that  was  in  them  made  me  to  endure 
agony,  but  these  sufferings  were  simple  as  compared 
with  those  that  Herod  caused  [me]  by  slaying  the  chil- 
dren, for  (Fol.  26b,  col.  3)  there  were  none  like  these 
last."  But  the  Lord  God  made  ailfection  to  be  present 
in  the  heart  of  the  Israelites,  and  they  neither  sought 
out  my  Son,  nor  did  they  take  Him  away  to  deliver 
Him  over  in  the  place  of  their  own  children. 

XH.  And  whilst  we  were  in  Judah  the  old  man, 
Joseph  the  carpenter,  ministered  unto  us  and  fed  us. 
And  behold  the  Angel  Gabriel  appeared  unto  him,  say- 
ing, "  Rise  up,  take  the  Child  and  His  Mother,  and  de- 
part to  the  land  of  Egypt,  for  those  folk  are  seeking  for 
the  Child  to  destroy  Him."  And  Joseph  informed  me 
of  the  words  that  Gabriel  had  spoken  to  him  ;  and  we 
rose  up  and  departed  to  Egypt  by  road  with  exceed- 
ingly great  fatigue.  Now  whilst  we  were  dwelling  to- 
gether Salome  was  with  us.  And  we  went  from  one 
place  to  another  in  the  cities  and  districts  of  the  Chil- 
dren of  Israel,  and  we  neither  found  a  soldier  of  Herod 

84 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

nor  any  fear  of  him,  and  none  of  (Fol.  27a,  col.  i)  his 
afflictions,  and  when  we  looked  we  saw  that  all  Israel 
was  without  men  children.  And  we  came  and  went  up 
to  Fastarun,  which  is  Basta,  and  they  did  not  welcome 
us  rightly.  Then  the  heart  of  the  old  man  Joseph  be- 
came hot  because  of  the  fatigue  of  the  roads.  And  I 
wept  for  him,  and  I  said,  "'  O  my  darling  Son,  behold, 
we  are  suffering  all  this  affliction  for  Thy  sake.  What 
sin  canst  Thou  have  committed  ?  Behold,  the  heart  of 
this  old  man  who  feedeth  us  is  weary  because  of  the 
abuse  that  they  heap  upon  him  for  our  sakes,  and  also 
because  of  my  weeping,  and  he  hath  not  found  any  rest 
for  a  single  day."  At  one  time  I  wept  for  my  darling 
Son  through  fear  of  Herod's  soldiers,  and  at  another  I 
was  terrified  because  of  the  highway  robbers  who  fol- 
lowed us.  In  short,  no  other  mother  was  ever  afflicted 
with  such  anxieties  as  those  that  afflicted  me.  And 
when  (Fol.  27a,  col.  2)  I  looked  at  Joseph,  behold,  he 
began  to  contend  against  me,  saying,  "  Behold,  I  am 
toiling  in  a  manner  that  is  above  my  strength,  and  I 
cannot  [go  on]  doing  so  because  of  my  old  age."  And  I 
dropped  my  face  downwards  towards  my  darling  Son, 
and  He  was  sucking  at  my  breasts.  And  I  was  weeping 
and  saying  "  O  my  darling  Son,  what  sin  hast  Thou 
committed,  that  all  these  things  have  happened  unto  us 
through  Thee,  and  even  this  old  man's  heart  waxeth 
hot  as  we  see  ?  "  And  again  I  wept  and  said,  "  What 
is  this  sin,  I  ask,  which  Thou  hast  committed  ?  Behold, 
the  heart  of  this  old  man  waxeth  hot."  And  He  ceased 
to  suck  milk  from  my  breasts  when  He  was  about  to 
hold  converse  with  me,  and  said,  "  O  My  beloved 
Mother,  make  strong  thy  heart,  and  be  not  sad  because 
all  these  things  have  happened  unto  thee  for  My  sake. 
But  let  thy  heart  be  strong  and  like  unto  a  rock,  (Fol. 
27a,  col.  3)  O  My  beloved  Mother,  for  I  cannot  leave 
the  state  of  humility  which  I  have  come  to  make  per- 
fect in  the  world  until  I  have  made  it  perfect.    Carry 

85 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

thou  Me,  O  My  father  Joseph,  for  a  little  while  in  order 
that  I  may  lay  My  hand  upon  thy  breast  so  that  thy 
soul  may  become  strong."  And  I  laughed,  and  I  said 
unto  the  old  man  Joseph,  "  O  my  father,  be  not  angry 
with  me,  and  do  not  let  me  only  carry  this  Child.  Be- 
hold now,  I  am  tired,  O  my  father,  and  see  how  He  is 
looking  to  thee  to  carry  Him."  And  when  I  said  this 
to  the  old  man  Joseph  he  put  away  his  displeasure  im- 
mediately, and  he  lifted  up  the  Child,  my  darling  Son, 
upon  his  shoulder.  And  as  soon  as  ever  my  Son  had 
laid  His  hand  upon  Joseph's  breast,  and  the  old  man 
Joseph  had  taken  hold  of  the  hand  of  the  Child  to  kiss 
it,  straightway  all  discomfort  was  removed  from  him, 
and  he  forgot  the  fatigue  of  the  journeyings,  and  he 
kissed  the  Child  from  (Fol.  27b,  col.  i)  His  head  to  the 
sole  of  His  feet,  and  he  embraced  Him,  saying,"  Verily, 
O  Mary,  behold,  thou  hast  found  grace  far  greater 
than  all  the  circle  of  our  kinsfolk,  for,  behold,  we  are 
made  worthy  by  walking  with  Him  in  Whom  there  is 
no  sin.  Verily  we  are  made  worthy  by  the  sight  of  this 
Child,  and  more  especially  by  carrying  Him  in  my  arms, 
for  these  arms  wherewith  we  received  Him  with  thee 
were  awearied.  There  shall  be  no  measure  to  the 
price  (?)  of  the  glory  that  shall  appear  with  us  from 
Him,  even  as  we  have  already  seen  the  glory  that  ap- 
peared' unto  us  from  Him  in  Bethlehem."  And  when 
the  old  man  Joseph  had  said  this  word  unto  me  he  com- 
forted me,  and  I  knew  because  of  it  that  the  grace  of 
my  Son  Jesus  had  found  me,  and  I  worshipped  Him  and 
His  Good  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit  for  ever. 

Xni.  And  having  gone  through  and  passed  by  all 
the  trials  and  experiences  which  met  us  during  these 
travels,  (Fol.  27b,  col.  2)  we  went  forth  from  the  land 
of  Israel,  and  we  came  to  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  to  a 
place  wherein  there  were  thorn  bushes,  [called]  Tarewa. 
And  we  found  (or,  met)  a  certain  man,  a  shepherd, 
whose  name  was  Joseph,  and  we  lodged  with  him  for 

86 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

four  days,  with  him  and  his.  And  the  thought  entered 
the  mind  of  my  darling  Son  to  perform  an  act  of  bless- 
ing in  this  place  Tarewa,  and  He  planted  there  three 
trees,  and  they  gave  us  shade  from  the  heat  that  day. 
And  He  blessed  this  place,  and  He  assigned  a  name  to 
this  place  Tarewa,  and  this  place  was  called  Yabus  after 
the  name  of  my  Son  Who  had  dwelt  there.  And  with 
very  great  difficulty,  because  of  the  affection  of  this 
shepherd  who  lived  there,  we  passed  on  from  this  place. 
From  there  we  traversed  many  hilly  districts  on  that 
road,  and  we  came  to  a  road  by  the  sea  where  we  were 
in  fear  because  of  highway  robbers.  And  we  came  to  a 
city  (Fol.  27b,  col.  3)  wherein  there  were  great  numbers 
of  statues  of  the  gods  that  were  worshipped,  and  it  was 
called  Bardona.  And  we  met  therein  an  old  man  who 
dwelt  in  the  gate  of  the  city,  and  this  man  made  a  sign 
of  derision  at  us,  and  he  treated  the  old  man  Joseph 
with  contempt.  And  when  we  saw  the  manner  of  mind 
which  the  people  of  the  city  had  concerning  us,  and  the 
way  in  which  they  behaved  towards  us,  we  did  not  eat 
their  bread  or  drink  their  water,  and  we  held  no  inter- 
course with  any  of  them.  And  there  was  ...  a  stone, 
and  it  ascribed  blessing  to  my  Son.  And  the  stone  be- 
gan to  roll  after  us  as  if  it  were  walking,  and  it  went 
about  after  us.  And  when  my  Son  saw  the  stone  going 
about  and  following  us.  He  made  a  sign  to  it  with  His 
fingers,  and  spake  a  word  of  blessing  to  it.  And  my  Son 
Jesus  made  another  sign  to  it,  and  said  unto  it,  "  I  say 
unto  thee,  O  stone,  which  art  speechless,  that  thou 
shalt  never  return  to  infirmity.  And  rest  (Fol.  28a, 
col.  i)  here  until  the  punishment  of  my  Father  cometh, 
and  all  the  stripes  of  Egypt  be  .   .   ." 

XXIV.  And  after  this  we  passed  on  to  another  city, 
but  fear  did  not  allow  us  to  dwell  there,  because  we 
were  afraid  of  the  robbers  on  the  roads.  And  w^e  sought 
the  sea,  and  in  the  evening  we  came  to  the  coast  of  the 
sea  which  is  on  the  west.  They  told  us  that  there  were 

87 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

temples  of  idols  on  our  road  which  lay  to  the  west  of 
the  sea,  and  that  there  were  many  trees  on  it  and  idols. 
And  we  were  afraid  to  go  their  roads  to  'Esmanen,  and 
we  made  to  avoid  them.  And  we  asked  the  old  man 
Joseph  to  take  us  by  the  eastern  passage  if  we  could  find 
a  way  whereby  we  might  go  up  to  the  city  of  'Esmanen, 
for  we  were  afraid  to  travel  by  the  road  whereon  there 
were  idols.  And  at  that  moment  (Fol.  28a,  col.  2)  a 
storm  wind  arose  upon  the  sea,  and  mighty  waves  were 
running,  and  there  was  a  tremendous  noise  as  the  bil- 
lows dashed  themselves  one  against  the  other.  And  be- 
hold, we  saw  a  small  ship  out  on  the  sea,  and  there  were 
in  it  two  brethren  who  were  toiling  with  all  their  might. 
And  Joseph  called  out  to  them,  saying,  "  O  brethren, 
show  us  -lu  act  of  kindness,  and  let  us  take  passage  with 
you  to  the  eastern  passage."  Now  it  was  eventide. 
And  Joseph  continued  to  shout  to  them  for  a  very  long 
time,  but  they  did  not  hear  his  voice.  And  when  he 
had  shouted  to  them  for  a  long  time  they  answered  him 
with  great  sadness,  saying,  "  What  dost  thou  want,  O 
simple  old  man  ?  Dost  thou  not  see  that  we  are  in  sore 
tribulation  through  this  storm,  and  that  we  are  in  a 
state  of  utter  exhaustion  ?  "  And  when  my  Son  saw 
that  we  could  not  go  up  with  them  He  put  out  His 
hand,  and  straightway  the  wind  dropped,  and  (Fol.  28a, 
col.  3)  the  sea  went  down  before  it.  And  a  rock  came 
to  us,  and  we  passed  over  the  sea  upon  it  without  any 
fatigue.  And  when  Joseph  saw  the  act  of  grace  that 
had  come  to  us,  and  how  we  had  crossed  the  sea  with- 
out a  ship,  large  or  small,  he  said  unto  me,  "  Did  I  not 
tell  thee  that  we  had  found  more  favour  than  any  other 
company  of  our  kinsfolk  ?  And  didst  thou  not  see  how 
the  rock  which  carried  us  came,  and  how  at  the  move- 
ment of  His  hand  the  wind  ceased  from  us,  and  how  the 
waves  went  down  from  us  at  the  mere  motion  of  His 
fingers  ?  If  He  doeth  such  a  thing  as  this  when  He  is 
a  Child,  what  will  happen  through  Him  when  He  is 


PLATE   XX / 


Lady  Mcux  MS.  No.  3,  fol.  22a. 


The  Devil  upsets  the  scaffold  on  which  a  painter  is  painting  a  picture  of 
the  blessed  and  the  damned.  The  ^'^i^gin  grasps  the  falling  painter  and 
saves  his  life 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

grown  up  ?  And  if  there  is  to  be  one  to  reign  over 
Israel  it  will  be  He,  and  in  truth  it  is  He  Who  will  judge 
the  living  and  the  dead.  And  as  for  myself,  I  say  that 
the  grace  of  God  hath  certainly  abounded,  for  it  is  I 
who  have  begotten  the  worker  of  this  (Fol.  28b,  col.  i) 
miracle."  And  having  remained  in  that  place  the  light 
(i.e.  the  day)  shone  ;  now  when  we  rested  ourselves 
upon  that  rock  it  was  eventide. 

XV.  And  we  also  saw  a  woman  who  was  a  mistress 
of  magic  and  of  the  devils  that  dwelt  in  her,  and  they 
used  to  lay  hold  upon  ships  and  the  winds,  and  to  take 
money  from  men  before  they  allowed  them  to  set  out 
on  their  journey.  And  this  woman  was  called  "  Talu- 
dar,"  and  her  daughter-in-law  was  called  "  Tamar." 
And  she  lived  in  a  temple  of  idols  facing  the  west  of 
the  sea,  and  she  used  to  disturb  every  man  by  her  magic 
and  prevent  his  attempting  to  put  to  sea  (?),  and  .  .  . 
the  magicians  of  Egypt.  And  when  that  woman,  the 
mistress  of  magic,  together  with  the  hosts  of  Satans 
that  were  in  attendance  upon  her,  saw  that  rock  she 
was  greatly  troubled  and  distressed,  for  she  used  to  re- 
ceive (Fol.  28b,  col.  2)  gifts  because  of  her  magic  from 
all  those  who  embarked  and  disembarked  there.  And 
when  my  Son  passed  on  to  sit  upon  that  rock  her  Satans 
saw  us  and  were  afraid,  and  one  half  of  them  went  (?) 
to  Daludar  and  Tamar  her  daughter,  and  they  in- 
formed her  of  what  had  happened  and  what  they  had 
seen.  And  she  said  unto  them,  "  Why  are  ye  per- 
turbed ?  "  And  they  said  unto  her,  "  Our  fear  and  our 
perturbation  are  very,  very  great  indeed,  greater  than 
we  have  felt  any  day  during  which  we  have  been  in  the 
service  of  thyself  and  thy  daughter-in-law."  And  she 
said  unto  them,  "  Tell  me  what  it  is  that  hath  fright- 
ened you."  And  the  Satans  said  unto  her,  "  It  is  this 
miracle  that  we  have  seen  take  place  this  day  on  the 
rock  ;  we  have  never  seen  anything  [like]  it.  And  by 
this  miracle  we  are  driven  away.    Since  the  days  of 

89 


The  History  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary  related 

Solomon  the  King  we  have  never  seen  such  a  miracle 
as  this  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  nor  hath  such  ever 
been  made  manifest.  And  we  rejoiced  when  Solomon 
was  taken  from  us,  because  he  afflicted  us,  (Fol.  28b, 
col.  3)  and  behold  this  One  Who  hath  appeared  this 
day  is  greater  than  Solomon."  And  the  mistress  of 
magic  said  unto  them,  "  What  was  His  miracle,  and 
what  was  the  like  thereof  ?  "  And  the  Satans  said  unto 
her,  "  It  had  the  appearance  of  the  hand  of  a  man 
stretched  out,  and  it  made  a  sign  behind  it,  and  we  do 
not  know  whether  it  was  in  heaven  or  not  ;  and  the 
appearance  of  the  hand  was  like  that  of  the  hand  of 
Michael  our  adversary,  and  because  of  this  we  made 
ourselves  strong.  And  by  the  form  of  the  hand  was 
written,  '  In  the  Name  of  God  the  Great.'  This  is 
what  we  saw,  and  behold,  we  have  come  and  informed 
thee."  And  when  the  mistress  of  magic  heard  this  she 
meditated  in  her  heart,  and  she  admonished  those 
devils.  And  then  she  summoned  other  Satans,  about 
sixteen  in  number,  and  she  said  unto  them,  "  Haste  ye 
to  this  rock,  and  tear  it  asunder,  and  surround  it,  and 
sink  it  in  the  deep.  And  whomsoever  ye  find  upon  this 
(Fol.  29a,  col.  i)  rock  bring  him  to  me  in  fetters."  And 
when  those  Satans  that  were  sent  by  the  mistress  of 
magic  came  to  us  and  wanted  to  snatch  us  away,  my 
Son  Jesus  rebuked  them,  and  they  went  back  and  took 
to  flight,  being  ashamed  and  disgraced.  And  when 
they  returned  to  her  baffled  and  ashamed  they  said  unto 
her,  "  Why  art  thou  sitting  here  in  this  fashion  ?  Be- 
hold, we  found  a  Child  sucking  at  the  breasts  of  His 
mother.  And  lo,  it  is  He  Who  shall  put  an  end  to  all 
the  magic  that  is  in  the  world.  And  we  have  never  seen 
the  like  of  this  Child,  nor  any  likeness  thereto  among  all 
those  who  are  born  of  women,  and  we  have  never  seen 
deeds  like  unto  this.  Thou  art  to  Him  like  all  other 
magicians.  By  the  mere  putting  forth  of  His  fingers 
He  destroyed  us,  and  He  made  us  to  melt  away  by  a 

90 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexa7idria 

sign  from  Him."  And  that  mistress  of  great  magic  said 
unto  her  servants  (Fol.  29a,  coL  2)  the  Satans,  "  Woe 
be  unto  you  !  Can  it  be  that  this  Child  hath  terrified 
you,  and  vanquished  you,  and  driven  you  away  ?  As 
for  me,  I  will  not  sit  down  until  I  have  snatched  away 
this  Child  and  His  mother,  and  those  who  are  with 
Him  ;  and  I  will  work  mightily  upon  them.  But  haste 
ye  and  make  ready  for  me  a  chariot,  and  bring  ye  hither 
to  me  all  my  satellites  that  I  myself  may  go  and  see  the 
miracle  that  is  upon  this  rock  which  hath  set  you  in 
such  a  state  of  perturbation."  And  she  said  also  unto 
those  priests  that  were  standing  before  her,  "  Make 
ready  for  me  a  fine  booth,  and  light  a  fire  therein  by  the 
time  that  I  return,  and  I  will  burn  up  this  woman  and 
her  Child."  And  straightway  she  mounted  upon  this 
chariot  of  devils  which  was  full  of  evil  spirits.  And  she 
came  to  us,  and  with  her  were  gathered  together  very 
many  Satans,  (Fol.  29a,  col.  3)  and  they  circled  round 
about  her  and  sang  unto  her.  And  when  she  came  to 
the  middle  of  the  sea,  my  Son  made  a  sign  with  His 
little  finger  which  He  shot  forth,  and  He  said,  "  I  say 
unto  thee,  O  evil  cloud  of  devils,  be  thou  destroyed  and 
melt  away  and  become  like  the  smoke  of  a  fire.  And 
moreover,  let  everyone  who  is  on  thee  go  down  into  the 
depths  of  hell  for  ever."  And  straightway  that  chariot 
was  shattered  and  became  like  a  fragment,  and  the  mis- 
tress of  magic  and  her  daughter  went  down  to  Tartarus- 
deep  for  ever,  and  the  water  covered  them.  And  in 
like  manner  all  the  Satans  departed  to  the  depths  with 
her,  and  their  memory  was  blotted  out  from  this  rock 
for  ever.  And  my  darling  Son  commanded  me  Mary, 
saying,  "  O  My  mother,  look  down  and  see  what  hath 
happened."  And  when  I  heard  this  from  Him  I  looked 
and  saw,  (Fol.  29b,  col.  i)  and  behold,  all  the  people 
had  their  heads  bowed  and  their  knees  bent  (?)  to  my 
Son,  and  He  was  in  their  midst.  And  I  looked  at  my 
arms  and  I  said,  "  Will  He,  peradventure,  go  with 

91 


The  History  of  the  Virgbi  Mary  related 

them  ?  "  And  I  found  Him  sucking  at  my  breasts,  and 
then  I  leaned  over  Him  with  my  face  to  kiss  Him.  And 
when  I  found  His  head  between  my  hands  I  lifted  up 
my  eyes  to  heaven,  and  I  praised  Him,  and  I  saw  Him 
seated,  and  all  the  heavenly  chiefs  were  praising  Him 
as  He  was  seated  upon  His  throne,  and  straightway  I 
was  perturbed  and  frightened,  and  I  said,  "  When  will 
this  [Child]  come  to  His  Father  in  the  heavens  ?  "  And 
I  made  haste  and  felt  for  Him,  and  I  found  both  His 
hands  holding  my  breasts,  and  as  He  was  drinking  my 
milk  I  bent  down  my  face  and  kissed  Him,  and  His  head 
was  between  my  breasts  and  He  said  unto  me,  "  O  My 
mother,  know  thou  that  whilst  I  am  in  (Fol.  29b,  col.  2) 
the  depth  of  the  earth  I  am  [also]  in  the  height  of 
heaven,  and  observe  that  whilst  I  am  clasping  thy  breast 
with  My  hand  I  am  also  grasping  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
and  again,  it  is  that  same  hand  that  hath  made  strong 
the  heavens.  And  I  am  never  separated  from  the 
Father,  not  even  for  a  moment."  And  when  my  Son, 
the  Word,  had  said  this  to  me  He  commanded  the 
depths  to  mingle  each  with  the  other,  and  the  stones 
likewise.  And  this  which  I  tell  thee,  O  Timothy,  is 
what  happened  to  us  on  this  rock. 

XVH.  And  after  this  there  came  unto  us  'Akharu- 
pas,  the  angel  who  guarded  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  he 
did  homage  to  my  darling  Son  ;  and  he  was  like  one  in 
sorrow,  and  his  hands  were  on  his  head,  and  he  was 
weeping.  And  my  Son  said  unto  him,  "  What  hath 
happened  to  thee,  O  'Akharupas,  thou  angel  of  might, 
and  why  art  thou  thus  sorrowful  ?  But  I  also  know  thy 
suffering  and  thy  sorrow."  And  the  angel  'Akharupas 
(Fol.  29b,  col.  3)  answered,  saying,  "  My  Lord  and  my 
God,  I  am  very  weary,  and  I  am  destitute  without  all 
the  angels.  And  Thou  hast  placed  me  in  this  country, 
which  is  by  far  the  worst  place  in  all  the  world.  My 
fields  are  circumscribed,  the  thorns  and  brambles  break 
up  my  vineyards,  and  my  waters  are  bitter  through  the 

92 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

sins  of  those  who  dwell  on  the  land.  And  the  men  of 
the  city  are  polluted  with  sin,  and  the  foulness  of  the 
smell  of  them  goeth  up  above  my  head.  The  sun  goeth 
dark  because  of  the  smell  of  the  incense  that  they  offer 
up  to  idols,  and  fathers  slay  their  sons,  and  pour  out 
their  blood  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  Satans.  And  brethren 
go  a  whoring  with  their  sisters,  and  in  brief,  behold,  the 
men  of  this  country  commit  every  kind  of  sin."  This 
is  what  'Akharupas  said  unto  my  darling  Son,  when  he 
was  making  a  complaint  against  the  men  of  the  borders 
of  Egypt.  And  he  said,  "  O  my  Lord,  I  (Fol.  30a, 
col.  i)  do  not  wish  to  dwell  [here]  an  hour."  And  my 
Son  consoled  him  and  said  unto  him,  "  Everything  that 
thou  sayest  is  true,  O  'Akhrupas.  And  I  know  them  far 
better  than  thou  dost,  but  be  strong,  for  thy  sorrow 
and  thy  pain  are  removed  this  day,  and  it  is  not  thou 
who  hast  to  bear  their  weaknesses.  But  henceforward 
they  shall  be  filled  with  joy  and  blessing,  for  My  coming 
unto  them  this  day,  O  'Akhrupos,  is  to  purify  all  the 
land  of  Egypt,  and  I  have  come  to  cut  the  roots  of  the 
worshippers  of  idols  this  day,  and  I  will  send  all  the 
idols  into  the  depths,  and  I  will  pluck  up  from  this 
country  thorns  and  brambles  and  I  will  burn  them  up 
in  the  fire  of  My  Godhead.  Behold,  I  will  make  My 
garden  and  My  vines  to  blossom  and  bear  fruit.  And 
I  will  set  incense  to  the  Father  in  this  land  in  the  place 
of  that  which  existed  in  it  formerly  through  the  weep- 
ing that  was  therein  and  that  was  multiplied  therein. 
Behold,  I  will  make  joy  (Fol.  30a,  col.  2)  and  gladness 
to  increase  therein  in  the  place  of  the  might  of  Satan 
that  was  therein.  Behold,  I  will  make  the  angels  and 
My  hosts  to  dwell  with  all  men  because  of  the  multi- 
tude of  odours,  and  they  shall  be  from  pure  men.  And 
like  Moses  My  servant  I  will  make  My  servants  to 
blossom,  making  them  to  dwell  in  the  garden  for  one 
thousand  years,  their  cause  for  boasting  being  the 
odours  of  the  perfumes.  And  now,  O  'Akhrupos,  Angel 

93 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

of  joy  and  gladness,  behold,  there  hath  come  He  that 
shall  set  thee  free  from  thy  captivity,  and  thou  shalt 
think  about  thy  people,  and  shalt  deliver  them  from  the 
evil  that  hath  bound  them.  And  behold,  this  country 
shall  be  called  The  Land  of  Hope  for  ever.  And  now, 
O  'Akhrupos,  Angel  of  might,  be  relieved  of  thy 
sorrow." 

And  when  the  Angel  'Akhrupos  heard  this  from  my 
Son,  he  rejoiced  exceedingly,  and  cried  out,  saying, 
"  Behold,  (Fol.  30a,  col.  3)  all  countries  are  filled  with 
the  praise  of  God."  And  my  Son  commanded  the 
Angel  to  go  before  us,  now  he  had  a  staff  in  his  right 
hand,  and  commanded  him  to  set  fire  to  the  temple 
of  idols  of  that  mistress  of  magic  whom  my  Son  had 
sent  down  into  the  depths,  and  he  pulled  it  down 
from  the  top  (i.e.  overthrew  it)  and  not  a  trace  of  it 
was  left. 

XVHI.  And  we  tarried  another  three  days  upon 
that  rock,  and  I  washed  Him  thereon.  And  after  three 
days,  at  the  turn  of  the  evening,  behold,  a  ship  came  to 
this  place  from  the  city  of  Alexandria.  And  when  the 
sailors  saw  the  old  man  Joseph  and  Salome  standing  up, 
they  cried  out,  saying,  "  We  adjure  you,  O  servants  of 
the  mistress  of  great  magic,  not  to  sink  our  ship,  for 
behold,  the  pirates  have  taken  everything  that  we  had 
before  we  arrived  (Fol.  30b,  col.  i)  at  this  place."  Now 
they  said  these  things  because  they  thought  that  we 
were  the  familiars  of  Daludar,  the  mistress  of  great 
magic.  And  the  old  man  Joseph  said  unto  them,  "  Fear 
ye  not,  for  behold,  God  hath  put  away  for  ever  the 
power  of  that  sorceress,  who  if  she  had  the  power  would 
have  destroyed  you.  Let  your  ship  sail  on."  And  after 
the  old  man  Joseph  had  held  converse  with  them  he 
boarded  their  ship  and  sailed  over  to  the  west.  And 
Joseph  tied  a  rope  to  the  mast  in  the  ship  whereon  we 
passed  over  to  dry  land,  and  the  rock  began  to  travel 
with  us ;   and  my  Son  laid  His  hand  upon  it,  and  He 

94 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

said  unto  it,  "  Remain  here  and  remove  not  thyself 
from  thy  place."  This  sign  shall  never  pass  away  from 
that  place  .  .  .  (Fol.  30b,  col.  2)  it  is  my  Son.  And 
they  did  not  permit  me  to  go  w^ith  my  Son,  and  the  old 
man  Joseph,  and  Salome.  And  we  were  terrified  and 
perturbed  until  we  arrived  at  the  boundary  of  'Asmu- 
nen.  And  my  Son  worked  miracles  and  raised  the  dead. 
And  we  were  terrified  and  sorrowful  in  the  city  of 
'Asmunen,  and  filthy  horses  of  brass  neighed  derisively 
at  us,  and  beasts  that  devoured  men,  that  is  to  say, 
camels,  came  out  against  us.  And  my  darling  Son  re- 
buked them,  and  the  spirits  went  forth  from  them,  and 
they  remain  there  as  a  proof  to  this  day,  O  man,  even 
as  the  old  man  Joseph  said. 

And  the  old  man  Joseph  had  knowledge  of  a  certain 
man,  who  was  a  carpenter,  on  our  arrival  in  the  land  of 
Egypt,  and  he  received  us  into  his  abode.  And  there 
was  in  his  city  a  large  crowd  of  sick  folk,  and  the  people 
brought  them  (Fol.  30b,  col.  3)  to  the  house  of  this  old 
man,  and  we  took  them  with  us  to  the  place  that  is 
called  Dabra  Kueskuam,  and  they  were  washed  at  this 
pillar,  and  they  were  all  healed  by  the  might  of  my  Son. 
And  I  went  to  this  place  of  the  pillar  and  my  Son  also, 
so  that  we  might  see  His  power  over  the  pillar,  and  it 
bowed  its  head  and  worshipped  Him.  And  there  came 
forth  a  command  from  my  Son  that  His  Name  should 
be  associated  with  this  place  as  it  was  with  the  rock,  and 
it  is  so  to  this  day.  And  the  name  of  the  carpenter  who 
made  us  to  live  in  his  house  was  Dayanus,  and  he  mar- 
velled at  the  grace  that  had  come  to  this  pillar,  and  the 
same  thing  happened  to  one  pillar  after  the  other  (?). 
And  in  the  year  wherein  I  gave  birth  [to  my  Son]  the 
splendour  of  a  star  shone  in  this  place,  and  it  was  a  re- 
minder (?)  of  our  coming  to  Egypt.  And  I  did  not  find 
any  place  wherein  I  could  reveal  the  birth  of  my  darling 
Son,  except  this,  (Fol.  31a,  col.  i)  that  is  to  say,  Kues- 
kuam. 

95 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

And  very  great  fear  came  upon  us  after  we  had  gone 
forth  from  this  place,  for  thieves  rushed  out  upon  us 
and  terrified  us  exceedingly  with  their  appearance, 
which  was  like  that  of  savages.  And  their  looks  were 
most  terrifying,  and  the  smaller  of  them  was  more  evil 
than  the  greater.  And  when  I  saw  them  I  thought 
that  they  were  some  of  Herod's  soldiers,  for  their  faces 
and  forms,  and  their  swords,  were  frightful.  And  the 
place  where  they  found  us  was  waste  and  desolate,  and 
one  of  the  thieves  snatched  away  my  Son  and  the  ap- 
parel that  was  on  Him  at  one  and  the  same  time.  And 
the  bigger  cried  out  and  said  unto  him,  "  Let  them 
alone  to-day,  and  to-morrow  thou  canst  keep  for  thy- 
self my  share  of  whatever  may  come  in  my  way."  And 
by  the  Will  of  God  they  did  us  no  harm  whatsoever. 
And  the  second  thief  stood  up  with  my  Son,  and  de- 
parted, and  his  companion  said,  here  (Fol.  31a,  col.  2) 
and  there  (?)  Then  I  wept  exceedingly,  saying,  "  O  my 
father  Joseph,  among  all  the  tribulations  wherewith  we 
have  been  afflicted,  behold,  I  have  forgotten  one,  that 
is  to  say,  my  remembrance  of  the  Israelites  who  weep 
for  their  children."  And  I  wept  also,  and  I  said,  "  Woe 
is  me,  O  my  darling  Son,  Whom  they  snatched  away 
from  the  shoulder  of  Thy  mother  !  And  behold,  my 
belly  is  torn  and  rent,  and  there  is  none  to  help  me, 
O  my  darling,  and  I  do  not  know  the  speech  of  these 
barbarian  thieves,  and  I  am  afraid  because  of  them. 
And  I  am  a  woman,  a  virgin,  and  these  are  barbarians, 
and  I  do  not  know  whether  this  [manner  of]  death  is 
hidden  for  Thee.  And  I  am  in  this  desert  by  myself, 
and  I  have  never  dwelt  in  a  city.  Perhaps  there  is  some 
place  that  will  hide  me  in  safety  for  Thy  sake.  And  I 
have  no  one  who  knoweth  me  (Fol.  31a,  col.  3)  in  this 
place,  as  these  thieves  are  aware.  My  heart  and  my  soul 
are  sick.  And  the  Israelitish  women  whose  children 
have  been  killed,  they  magnify  their  sufferings  more 
than  mine.    I  have  been  an  orphan  from  my  earliest 

96 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

years,  and  I  have  none  unto  whom  I  can  flee.  And  I 
am  like  the  beasts  who  cry  out  when  [men]  kill  their  off- 
spring, and  I  do  even  as  do  they.  And  these  thieves 
have  not  had  compassion  on  my  weeping.  And  the 
birds  lament  when  their  young  are  taken  away  from 
under  their  wings,  and  in  like  manner  I  stretch  out  my 
hands  above  my  head.  And  these  thieves  spared  me 
not,  neither  have  they  had  compassion  upon  the  cries 
of  the  beasts,  and  upon  their  being  driven  away  from 
their  lairs  through  them,  and  I  do  even  as  do  they. 
These  thieves  have  had  no  compassion  upon  me,  and  I 
have  been  persecuted  (or,  followed)  by  them  from  place 
to  place." 

And  when  I  saw  the  nakedness  of  my  Son,  I  remem- 
bered my  wandering,  and  my  weariness,  and  (Fol.  31b, 
col.  i)  my  virginity,  and  I  went  back.  And  the  old  man 
Joseph  saw  that  sorrow  and  suffering  had  descended 
upon  me,  and  his  head  rolled  down,  and  he  covered  his 
face  with  his  head-cloth  and  wept.  And  Salome  also 
picked  up  her  head-cloth  which  had  fallen  off  her,  and 
she  wrapped  her  head  therein,  for  her  head  was  un- 
covered. And  the  Lord  God  put  compassion  in  the 
heart  of  the  older  thief,  and  he  went  to  the  younger 
thief  and  quarrelled  with  him,  and  he  took  my  Son  and 
His  apparel  and  brought  them  to  me,  and  he  carried 
my  Son  on  his  shoulder,  and  kissed  Him,  and  this  man 
spake  both  unto  us  and  unto  Joseph  the  old  man  many 
words  of  consolation.  Now  the  thief  who  had  snatched 
away  my  Son  was  a  bad  man,  and  his  eyes  were  wholly 
like  fiery  lamps,  and  his  eyes  shot  out  evil  [looks],  and 
all  his  actions  made  it  clear  that  he  was  a  wicked  (Fol. 
31b,  col.  2)  and  depraved  man,  even  as  Salome  told  us. 
But  my  suffering  and  my  weeping  did  not  depart  from 
me  because  I  had  looked  upon  this  man,  for  I  was  think- 
ing that  it  had  never  been  my  habit  to  look  at  a  man, 
least  of  all  upon  a  man  who  was  a  highway  robber,  and 
who  had  besides  snatched  away  my  Son  from  me  with 

H  97 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  related 

violence.  And  when  they  had  gone  away  from  us  a 
little,  my  Son  blessed  the  older  thief  and  gave  him  a 
portion  of  the  Tree  of  Life.  And  He  remembered  my 
weeping  and  made  [him]  a  friend  of  the  Cherubim  ; 
and  He  remembered  the  sweet  and  consoling  words 
that  the  thief  spake  unto  me,  and  He  gave  him  manna 
for  his  tongue  ;  and  He  remembered  the  wanderings  of 
His  mother  and  gave  him  rest  in  Paradise.  And  He  re- 
membered that  He  was  stripped  naked  by  the  wicked 
thief  when  he  carried  off  His  apparel  and  He  covered 
Himself  with  perfect  light  ten  thousandfold  bright. 
O  the  greatness  of  the  goodness  that  He  promised  to 
that  thief  (Fol.  31b,  col.  3)  who  showed  us  but  a  small 
kindness ! 

XVHI.  And  when  we  had  passed  on  a  little  way 
after  the  trial  that  we  had  suffered  through  the  lesser 
thief,  and  the  kindness  that  the  greater  showed  us,  my 
Son  knew  the  thought  of  my  heart.  And  He  said  unto 
me,  "  O  My  mother,  let  not  thy  heart  be  wearied  be- 
cause of  that  which  hath  happened  unto  us  through  the 
thief.  This  is  My  Father's  Will,  and  He  will  not  per- 
mit Me  to  leave  it  unfulfilled,  and  every  trial  that  shall 
come  upon  Me  in  this  world  He  will  not  permit  Me  to 
leave  incomplete.  As  for  these  two  thieves,  one  of 
them  is  a  man  of  Satan,  and  he  is  sprung  from  the  seed 
of  the  unbelievers.  And  now,  O  My  mother,  let  not 
thine  heart  be  sorrowful  because  of  this  humiliation 
that  I  have  received,  for  it  is  [due  to]  the  command 
of  the  Father.  Endure  patiently  with  Me,  O  My 
mother,  tribulations  in  this  world,  for  thou  art  the 
Gates  of  Jerusalem,  and  thou  art  the  Consoler,  and 
(Fol.  32a,  col.  i)  the  Garb  of  Light  that  shall  not  be 
destroyed."  And  my  Son  spake  unto  me  many  words 
of  consolation. 

And  we  were  on  the  road  to  Dabra  Kueskuam.  Now 
when  we  arrived  there  we  went  about  hither  and  thither 
so  that  we  might  perchance  find  a  good  place  wherein 

98 


by  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Alexandria 

we  might  dwell.  And  my  darling  Son  pointed  to  a 
place  with  His  finger  and  said,  "  Let  us  go  to  this  good 
place  to  dwell  therein,  for  it  is  a  very  fine  place,  O  My 
mother.  And  this  is  the  race  of  Judah  and  the  root  of 
the  people  whence  I  have  sprung,  and  it  is  more  ready 
for  My  blessing  than  all  the  [other]  places  that  are 
ours."  And  when  we  had  sat  down  therein  we  found 
a  little  storey  in  its  upper  part,  with  a  little  opening 
(or,  window)  on  the  northern  (or,  river)  side  of  it.  And 
I  found  in  it  everything  that  women  need  for  washing 
children,  a  washing  basin,  a  bucket,  a  water  channel 
(drain?),  and  a  well  (Fol.  32a,  col.  2)  of  water.  And 
when  the  ninth  day  had  come  after  we  had  descended 
into  Dabra  Kueskuam,  Deyanos  the  carpenter,  the 
friend  of  the  old  man  Joseph,  arrived,  riding  upon  his 
beast,  and  he  had  with  him  a  few  things  that  we  wanted 
from  him.  And  we  told  him  what  the  thieves  had  done 
to  us,  and  what  they  were  like,  and  he  knew  them.  And 
he  said,  "  These  thieves  dwell  opposite  'Asmonen,  and 
they  are  like  brothers  each  to  the  other,  like  sons  of  the 
same  woman.  The  father  of  the  bigger  of  them  was 
from  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  the  father  of  the  other 
one,  whose  compassion  was  small,  was  of  the  people  of 
Judah."  And  in  short  we  sat  down  [there]  for  six 
months.  And  we  dwelt  in  Dabra  Kueskuam,  I  and  my 
Son  Jesus.  Musis  came  to  us  with  the  story  of  his  fear, 
and  Musis  died,  and  we  buried  him  there.  (Fol.  32a, 
col.  3).  He  troubled  us  because  there  came  to  us  with 
him  some  rumours ;  and  he  was  buried  in  this  place 
[and  is  there]  to  this  day.  And  after  his  death  we 
dwelt  in  this  place  but  a  short  time.  And  behold,  the 
announcement  of  the  Angel  Gabriel  came  to  us  and 
informed  us  of  the  destruction  of  Herod,  and  we  re- 
turned to  the  land  of  Jerusalem,  in  which  the  Jews 
crucified  my  darling  Son. 

And  now,  O  Timothy,  open  the  mind  of  thy  heart, 
and  understand  what  I  will  say  to  thy  heart,  and  write 

99 


The  History  of  the  Virgiii  Mary  related 

down  a  commemorative  narrative  of  our  coming  and  of 
our  dwelling  upon  this  rock.  For  this  that  I  make 
known  unto  thee  I  did  not  reveal  to  my  father  Theo- 
philus  ;  and  thou  art  a  flowering  branch  like  Mark,  a 
new  plant,  which  shall  never  depart. 

XIX.  And  my  Lady  [Mary]  the  Virgin  took  me 
round  the  place,  and  she  showed  me  where  she  washed 
her  darling  Son,  the  place  [pointed  out  by]  His  finger, 
(Fol.  32b,  col.  i)  the  place  where  she  set  Him  down, 
and  His  abode,  so  that  we  might  build  a  church  there. 
And  she  informed  me  concerning  everything  that  would 
happen  unto  us  in  the  house  of  Saint  Abba  Pachomius 
in  Upper  Egypt.  And  she  said  unto  me,  "  Behold, 
Abba  Pachomius  shall  come  to  thee  on  the  day  when 
thou  dost  dedicate  a  church  to  him.  And  there  shall 
come  to  thee  hosts  of  the  heavenly  beings  shining  with 
light,  and  many  bishops  and  archbishops,  and  their 
leader  shall  be  Mark  the  Evangelist,  and  thy  father 
Dioscoros  shall  come,  and  very  many  companies  of  the 
monks,  and  Saint  Abba  Bula  (Paule  ?)  the  great,  and 
Abba  Palamon,  and  to  the  third  generation  all  the 
monks  shall  come  to  thee  at  the  consecration  of  the 
martyrium  of  Saint  Abba  Pachomius.  And,  greater 
than  these,  my  darling  Son  shall  come  unto  thee  at  the 
(Fol.  32b,  col.  2)  consecration,  and  shall  precede  thee 
in  the  work.  And  multitudes  from  the  tribes  of  the 
children  of  Israel  shall  be  gathered  together  to  thee  at 
the  time  of  consecration,  and  I  also  will  come  together 
with  my  hosts,  and  I  will  celebrate  the  Offering  by  the 
hand  of  My  darling  Son.  And  the  day  of  the  first  con- 
secration shall  be  the  first  day  of  the  month  Genbot, 
which  is  the  day  on  which  I  was  born.  [Now  the 
Egyptians  celebrate  the  birthday  of  our  Lady  on  the 
first  day  of  Genbot,  and  the  rest  of  the  Christian 
peoples  on  the  tenth  day  of  Maskarram.]  Now,  O 
Timothy,  behold,  I  have  told  thee  the  day  whereon 
thou  shalt  consecrate  the  church  of  Abba  Pachomius 

100 


hy  Timothy^  Patriarch  of  Ahxandria 

publicly.  And  now,  take  good  heed  to  everything  that  I 
have  told  thee,  and  thou  shalt  fulfil  it  on  the  rock  as  a 
memorial  of  myself  and  of  my  Son  in  this  place  for 
ever."  And  when  she  had  said  this  she  disappeared 
from  me  ;  may  her  blessing  be  with  us  for  ever  and 
ever. 


lOI 


THE  ANNUNCIATION  OF  GABRIEL  TO  MARY 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604.    Fol.  67a  ff.] 

IN  THE  Name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and 
OF  the  Holy  Spirit,  One  God.  (Fol.  67a,  col.  i) 
Christ,  my  God  and  my  hope,  and  my  Lady  Mary, 
pray  for  me  !  A  Homily  describing  how  Gabriel  made 
his  announcement  to  Mary  on  the  29th  day  of  the 
month  Magabit,  and  the  words  of  praise  which  he  spake 
unto  her.  The  Angel,  on  whom  was  the  Sign  of  the 
Cross,  came  to  her  carrying  a  staff  of  fire,  and  his  wings 
were  resplendent,  and  his  eyes  sparkled,  and  his  stature 
filled  the  courtyard,  and  his  eyes  were  brighter  than  the 
sun  ;  his  face  was  long,  his  legs  were  straight,  his  feet 
and  his  hands  were  shapely,  his  appearance  was  hand- 
some, and  his  form  goodly.  This  holy  Angel,  whose 
name  was  Gabriel,  did  the  Father  send  to  the  Virgin  ; 
and  that  angel  in  coming  down  delivered  the  martyrs. 
I.  And  when  (Fol.  67a,  col.  2)  the  Virgin  saw  the 
Angel,  she  was  greatly  troubled  and  said,  "  What  hath 
the  Lord  God  allotted  for  me  in  visiting  me  ?  "  And 
the  Angel  (who  was  rejoicing  over  the  incarnation  of 
the  Glorious  One,  and  over  the  direct  announcement 
to  the  bearer  of  the  Glorious  Son)  said  unto  her,  "Hail 
to  thee,  Virgin  !  thou  shalt  bring  forth  in  thy  virginity 
a  perfect  Son,  the  numbering  of  Whose  years  hath  no 
end.  He  shall  come  and  sojourn  in  thy  womb,  and 
tarry  there  for  nine  months,  and  shall  be  born  in  the 
form  of  a  Boy,  and  He  shall  go  forth  from  thy  womb 
without  the  fetter  of  thy  virginity  being  broken.  O 
Virgin,  thou  shalt  carry  Him  that  cannot  be  compre- 
hended, and  Him  that  cannot  be  carried  ;  Him  that 
heaven  and  earth  cannot  contain  thou  shalt  carry.  Him 

102 


A7tnu?iciatton  of  the  Archa7igel  Gabriel 

at  Whose  word  all  the  earth  trembleth,  Him  that  is 
almighty  and  all-knowing,  Him  by  Whose  power  every- 
thing subsisteth,  and  every  soul  is  created.  O  Virgin, 
thou  shalt  bring  forth,  and  shalt  carry  a  Child,  (Fol.  67a, 
col.  3)  and  there  shall  be  born  of  thee  Him  that  maketh 
the  heavens  to  stand  up  without  a  pillar,  and  layeth  the 
foundations  of  the  earth  upon  the  sea.  O  Virgin,  thou 
shalt  bring  forth  and  bear  the  Creator  of  the  light  and 
of  the  darkness.  Who  overthroweth  the  wicked  and 
bringeth  the  pure  nigh  unto  Him  ;  and  He  rideth  upon 
the  chariot  of  the  Cherubim  and  Seraphim,  who  ride 
in  the  fire.  O  Virgin,  thou  shalt  bring  forth  and  bear 
joy  wherein  there  is  no  sorrow,  and  the  healthy  One  in 
Whom  there  is  no  sickness,  and  the  blessed  One  in 
Whom  there  is  no  evil.  He  Who  is  not  an  orphan,  the 
helper  of  mortals.  Who  raiseth  the  dead,  holy  among 
the  holy  ones,  exalted  among  the  exalted  ones.  Whom 
the  angels  praise  who  ever  keep  watch.  O  Virgin,  thou 
shalt  bear  and  shalt  bring  forth  Him  Whom  the  angels 
envelop  in  their  wings  of  fire,  and  they  shall  crown  Him 
and  overshadow  Him  when  He  goeth  forth  from  thy 
womb.  And  He  shall  be  born  of  thee  more  easily  than 
men  are  born,  and  He  shall  lie  like  a  (Fol.  67b,  col.  i) 
child  in  a  crib,  and  He  shall  be  covered  with  earthly 
flesh,  and  He  shall  rule  over  everything,  and  He  shall 
reign  over  the  whole  world,  and  His  kingdom  shall  have 
no  end.  O  Virgin,  thou  shalt  bear  and  bring  forth  Him 
to  Whom  kings  shall  present  gifts,  and  the  exalted  ones 
shall  give  thanks  unto  Him,  and  the  wise  men  shall 
bring  gifts  unto  Him,  gold,  frankincense,  and  incense. 
O  Virgin,  thou  shalt  bear  and  shalt  bring  forth  the 
Great  God,  Whom  the  shepherds  shall  tell  of  and  they 
shall  go  round  about  the  fields  by  the  city  in  their  joy 
over  the  birth  of  the  Salvation  of  the  world.  O  Virgin, 
thou  shalt  bear  Him  Whose  days  it  is  impossible  to  com- 
pute with  accuracy.  O  Mother  of  God,  whose  image 
is  that  of  man  and  woman,  thou  shalt  live  with  Joseph, 

103 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

the  pure,  and  God-fearing,  and  righteous  man.  And 
as  for  thee,  thou  hast  no  affinity  with  him  in  flesh,  and 
no  member  of  thy  body  (Fol.  67b,  col.  2)  shall  be 
mingled  with  his,  because  of  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  Who  shall  come  down  upon  thee  even  as  a  dove 
alighteth  on  the  water.  O  Virgin,  thou  shalt  conceive 
and  bring  forth  without  the  taint  of  the  flesh.  And 
when  He  hath  been  born  of  thee  the  righteous  and  the 
martyrs  shall  rejoice  over  His  birth,  and  His  incarna- 
tion, and  the  might  of  His  right  hand  and  holy  arm  ; 
and  His  covenant  shall  be  revealed  before  the  nations. 
H.  "  O  Mother  of  the  Great  God,  I  will  declare 
unto  thee  and  make  thee  to  know  concerning  the  Child 
that  shall  be  born  of  thee,  and  how  great  is  the  majesty 
and  wisdom  of  Him  that  shall  be  perfected  in  thy 
womb.  How  vast  is  the  number  of  His  years,  how  vast 
His  greatness  which  I  will  explain  unto  thee,  and  the 
extent  of  the  kingdom  of  Him  Who  never  cometh  to 
an  end  !  O  holy  Lady,  no  man  knoweth  the  vastness  of 
His  mind,  and  no  man  knoweth  what  are  the  design 
and  the  work  and  deep  wisdom  of  Him  that  shall  go 
forth  from  thy  virginity  without  union  with  man. 
O  strength  (Fol.  67b,  col.  3)  above  those  who  are  ex- 
hausted !  How  vast  is  His  greatness  !  But  no  word 
can  describe  Him  to  Whom  belongeth  everything,  the 
Power  which  thou  shalt  bear,  which  shall  never  be  con- 
sumed for  thee,  the  Power  which  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  cannot  contain,  and  all  created  beings  shall  min- 
ister unto  thee.  O  Virgin,  what  beginning  was  there  to 
Him  Who  is  ?  As  there  is  stability  in  His  existence  He 
shall  deliver  the  world,  and  at  His  coming  He  shall  illu- 
mine the  whole  world.  O  Virgin,  who  is  able  to  bear 
Him  Who  in  His  might  is  able  to  bear  the  universe  ? 
O  thou  White  Dove,  the  wings  of  the  Spirit  shall  over- 
shadow thee,  they  shall  rejoice  over  thee  and  watch 
over  Him  that  shall  be  conceived.  O  Mother  of  God, 
this   day  hath   come   to   thee   He   Who   cannot    be 

104 


A727tiinciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

separated,  the  Word  hath  taken  flesh  in  the  sixth  month, 
O  Mother  of  God,  the  Bearer  of  the  Living  One  Who 
never  dieth.  The  Apostles  shall  reverence  thy  prayer, 
and  they  shall  be  awestruck  when  (Fol.  68a,  col.  i)  thy 
mouth  shall  be  opened  to  speak,  and  they  shall  become 
like  corpses.  The  Son  shall  descend  and  come  to  thee, 
and  shall  raise  them  up  and  make  them  to  ascend  a  high 
mountain  with  thee.  O  Mother  of  God,  the  kings  of 
the  earth  shall  lick  thy  dust,  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
shall  minister  to  the  majesty  of  what  thou  bearest,  and 
it  shall  not  be  difficult  for  thy  womb  to  carry  the  fire 
that  shall  be  in  thy  belly  and  shall  go  forth  from  thy 
flesh  to  save  the  world.  For  thou  art  a  lamb  of  re- 
joicing to  everyone  everywhere,  O  blessed  one  of  the 
Father,  Whose  mind  hath  come  down  unto  thy  mind, 
O  Mary." 

And  whilst  he  whose  name  was  Gabriel  was  an- 
nouncing these  glad  tidings  to  the  holy  woman  Mary, 
she  made  him  no  answer,  for  shewas  terrified  and  afraid. 
And  God  looked  at  her,  and  descended  into  the  womb 
of  the  holy  woman,  and  all  the  saints  rejoiced  over  her, 
the  deliverer  of  the  world,  and  when  they  saw  her  they 
prostrated  themselves  before  her,  and  said,  "  O  Mother 
of  God,  (Fol.  68a,  col.  2)  our  Lady  and  redeemer,  pray 
for  us  !  Thou  hast  become  the  habitation  of  glory. 
He  shall  be  conceived,  and  formed,  and  brought  forth 
from  thy  womb,  and  shall  put  on  thy  flesh.  O  Mother 
of  God,  thou  shalt  carry  [Him]  in  thy  belly,  and  thou 
shalt  become  the  habitation  of  the  Godhead.  O  Mother 
of  God,  our  Lady  and  our  redeemer,  pray  thou  for  us, 
and  lay  peace  and  safety  upon  those  who  are  in  this  thy 
house  !  O  Mother  of  God,  Bearer  of  Life,  glorious  one, 
a  Son  exalted  by  those  who  are  exalted  shall  be  born  of 
thee,  and  He  shall  enter  into  thy  womb,  and  shall  be 
perfected  and  formed  therein.  O  our  Lady  and  de- 
liverer, pray  thou  and  make  supplication  on  behalf  of 
all  the  world ;   thou  wast  an  earthly  being  and  hast 

105 


The  History  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary 

become  a  heavenly  being  through  carrying  the  One.  O 
God,  the  Creator  of  the  universe,  Who  art  master  of 
everything,  Who  rulest  everything.  Who  art  over  every- 
thing, Who  judgest  (FoL  68a,  col.  3)  everyone,  Whose 
dominion  none  can  resist.  Whose  sovereignty  none  can 
dispute,  Whose  designs  none  can  frustrate,  Whose  wis- 
dom no  man  can  understand.  Who  art  inexplicable. 
Who  art  incomprehensible,  v^ho  can  declare  Thy  years 
and  who  can  count  Thy  Name[s]  ?  Who  can  interpret 
His  hidden  things  ?  Who  can  reveal  His  revelations  ? 
Who  can  go  round  about  His  throne,  and  who  can 
make  His  word  to  draw  near  ?  Who  can  explain  Him 
at  Whose  voice  every  soul  quaketh  ?  The  light  and  the 
darkness  belong  to  Him,  and  He  maketh  the  lightnings 
to  play  [in  the  skies].  And  all  souls  worship  Him  Whom 
the  heavens  and  the  earth  cannot  carry.  He  having  been 
formed  and  fashioned.  O  our  Lady  and  deliverer,  pray 
thou  for  us,  and  make  supplication  for  us  to  Him  before 
Whose  awf  ulness  the  might  of  every  soul  trembleth;  thou 
shalt  be  able  to  carry  Him  Whose  form  cannot  be  car- 
ried, I  beseech  thee,  O  benefactress  and  bountiful  giver. 
O  Mother  of  God,  thy  (Fol.  68b,  col.  i)  prayer  and  thy 
petition  have  joined  themselves  unto  us  sinners,  O  thou 
who  shalt  be — and  He  hath  made  thee — the  Mother  of 
the  Light  of  all  the  world.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy 
prayer  and  thy  petition  have  joined  themselves  unto  all 
sinners.  The  awesome  powers  shall  serve  Him,  and  the 
mighty  angels  shall  tremble.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy 
prayer  and  thy  petition  have  joined  themselves  unto 
us  sinners  ;  thou  shalt  be  able  to  carry  in  thy  belly 
Him  Whose  memorial  is  for  ever.  Who  maketh  the  up- 
right to  love  justice  and  to  hate  oppression.  O  Mother 
of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  have  joined  them- 
selves unto  us  sinners  ;  thou  shalt  be  able  to  carry  [in 
thy  belly]  the  righteous  One  in  Whom  is  no  injustice 
and  no  sin,  the  Judge  Who  shall  not  accept  the  person 
of  sinners,  and  Who  shall  make  righteous.    O  Mother 

106 


An7tunciation  of  the  Archa?igel  Gabriel 

of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  have  joined  them- 
selves unto  us  sinners ;  thou  shalt  fashion  and  make 
perfect  Him  that  is  the  Keeper  of  the  soul,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  body.  Who  setteth  free  in  the  light  (Fol. 
68b,  col.  2)  those  who  are  in  darkness,  the  Looser  of  the 
bond  of  injustice  (or,  oppression).  O  Mother  of  God, 
thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  have  joined  themselves 
unto  us ;  the  fashioning  and  completion  of  Him  Who 
existed  with  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit  shall  be- 
come possible  in  thy  belly.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy 
prayer  and  thy  petition  have  united  themselves  unto 
us  sinners ;  shall  not  the  fashioning  and  completion  of 
Him  Who  buildeth  His  pavilion  on  the  waters,  and  by 
Whose  feet  the  clouds  are  trodden,  become  possible  [in 
thy  belly]  ?  O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy 
petition  have  united  themselves  unto  us ;  He  Whose 
habitation  is  in  the  heights.  Whose  throne  is  crowned 
with  fire.  Who  dwelleth  in  the  Cherubim  and  Sera- 
phim, shall  come  and  be  conceived  in  thy  womb  and 
dwell  therein.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy 
petition  have  united  themselves  unto  us  sinners ;  He 
Whom  ten  thousand  times  ten  thousand  angels  cannot 
seek  out  (Fol.  68b,  col.  3)  shall  come  and  unite  unto 
Himself  thy  flesh  and  make  thee  His  abode.  O  Mother 
of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  have  united  them- 
selves unto  us  sinners.  And  that  fire  shall  not  consume 
thy  body.  He  Who  rideth  upon  the  chariot  of  the 
Cherubim  and  Seraphim  shall  ride  upon  thy  body.  O 
Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  have 
united  themselves  unto  us  sinners ;  Him  Who  maketh 
all  who  are  sad  to  rejoice,  Who  magnifieth  the  feeble 
ones,  Who  is  the  eyes  of  the  blind,  Who  healeth  those 
who  are  distraught.  Who  is  able  to  make  the  dumb  to 
speak,  and  the  ears  of  the  deaf  to  hear,  Who  can  do 
everything  by  His  word,  Who  strengtheneth  all,  Who 
feedeth  all,  thou  shalt  be  able  to  fashion.  O  Mother 
of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  shall  come  to  us, 

107 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

and  shall  make  us  sinners  to  unite  with  thee,  and  shall 
make  strong  the  power  of  souls.  And  by  His  command 
He  had  dominion  over  everything  before  (Fol.  69a, 
col.  i)  the  world  was  created.  Him  to  Whom  praise 
belongeth,  and  to  His  Begetter,  it  is  possible  [for  thee] 
to  carry  and  perfect. 

HI.  "  O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  peti- 
tion have  united  themselves  unto  us  sinners  ;  the 
shepherds  saw  Him,  and  the  angels  ascribed  thanks  unto 
Him.  O  Mother  of  the  pure  God,  it  is  meet  that  thou 
shouldst  be  able  to  fashion  the  Glorious  One  com- 
pletely. O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition 
with  thee  have  united  themselves  unto  us  sinners ;  thou 
shalt  fashion  completely  Him  that  cannot  be  deprived 
of  His  throne  of  glory.  Who  existed  before  everything. 
Who  hath  soul  in  Him,  Whose  Divinity  is  almighty. 
O  Mother  of  God,  our  Lady,  thy  prayer  and  thy  peti- 
tion with  thee  have  united  themselves  unto  us  sinners ; 
thou  shalt  fashion  completely  Him  Who  is  set  over 
everything,  Who  appointeth  king[s],  Who  establisheth 
him  that  putteth  his  trust  in  Him,  and  giveth  glory  and 
grace.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition 
with  thee  have  united  themselves  unto  us  sinners,  we 
praise  thee  because  He  Who  appointed  Twelve  Tribes 
(Fol.  69a,  col.  2)  shall  be  fashioned  in  thy  womb,  and 
put  on  thy  fiesh,  the  Holy  One  Whom  thou  shalt  be 
able  to  fashion.  O  Mother  of  God,  thy  prayer  and  thy 
petition  with  thee  have  united  themselves  unto  us  sin- 
ners ;  He  Who  shall  become  man  in  every  respect,  sin 
alone  excepted,  and  shall  come  down  of  His  own  free 
will  and  be  hidden  in  thy  belly,  without  being  stripped 
of  His  glory,  shall  dwell  in  and  be  formed  completely 
by  thee.  O  Mother  of  God,  the  deliverer  of  those  who 
have  been  stolen  away,  and  the  rescuer  of  those  who 
follow  after  Him,  may  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  be 
with  us.  O  Mother  of  God,  the  salvation  of  the  whole 
world,  Peter  recited  thy  praise,  and  said  unto  thee, 

108 


PLATE  XXII 


Lady  Uexix  MS.  No.  3,  fol.  sSt. 


The  Virgin   rescues   a  woman  in  childbirth   from  the  wave-,  of  the  sea^ 
and  shelters  both  mother  and  child 


Annunciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

O  blessed  woman,  Mother  of  God,  thou  wast  smitten 
with  trembling  when  thy  thought  (or,  mind)  entered 
into  the  heads  of  all  the  Twelve  Tribes  of  the  people. 
And  thou  didst  converse  with  them  on  the  matter  of 
the  hidden  things  of  thee,  and  a  flame  of  fire  went  forth 
(Fol.  69a,  col.  3)  from  thy  mouth.  And  the  shepherds 
who  were  with  thee  were  terrified  and  became  like  dead 
men,  O  our  Lady  of  beautiful  things,  the  mind  of  the 
Father  and  His  spiritual  grace  descended  to  them,  and 
set  free  and  raised  up  all  the  dead  bodies.  O  Mother 
of  God,  thou  shalt  become  the  guide  of  all  women." 

IV.  And  Bartholomew,  one  of  the  Apostles,  said, 
"  Of  what  kind  was  the  angel  who  came  unto  thee, 
from  whom  thou  couldst  not  escape  ?  And  what 
said  he  unto  thee,  O  our  Lady  ?  And  how  is  it  possible 
that  He  Whom  the  heavens  and  the  earth  cannot  con- 
tain can  be  carried  in  thy  belly  ?  Is  it  possible  for  fire 
to  be  mingled  with  human  flesh  ?  O  my  Lady,  there 
is  a  torrent  of  fire  in  His  mouth.  O  my  Lady,  Mother 
of  God,  holy  and  to  be  praised,  O  Mother  of  God,  O 
our  Lady,  is  it  possible  for  milk  to  be  associated  with 
virginity  ?  And  how  can  He  Who  is  marvellous  in  His 
operation  and  wisdom  be  carried  [by  thee]  and  made 
perfect  ?  (Fol.  69b,  col.  i)  O  our  Lady,  how  is  the 
perfecting  [by  thee]  of  Him  Who  put  together  the 
heavens  and  the  earth  possible  ?  O  our  Lady,  how  can 
the  carrying  and  perfecting  be  possible  [by  thee]  of 
Him  Who  hath  become  the  heir  of  every  being  of  flesh. 
Who  is  glorified  and  thanked  for  His  power,  Whose 
kingdom  governeth  everything  ?  O  our  Lady,  how  can 
the  carrying  and  perfect  fashioning  be  possible  of  Him 
[Who  spreadeth  out]  the  water  of  the  sea.  Who  quieteth 
the  billows,  and  maketh  the  fish  to  dwell  therein  ?  O 
our  Lady  and  Mother  of  God,  how  can  it  be  possible 
[for  thee]  to  carry  Him  Who  came  like  a  little  child 
into  a  little  cave,  seeing  that  He  was  able  to  make  the 
heavens  and  the  earth,  the  mountains  and  the  hills, Who 

109 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

commandeth  everything  to  be  by  His  word,  and  for 
Whom  nothing  is  impossible  ?  O  my  Lady,  how  canst 
thou  carry  Him  ? 

V.  "  Thou  saycst  :  I  will  magnify  Him  that  is  so 
mighty,  the  Lord  of  all,  all  creation  scrveth  His  power, 
and  every  one  bclicveth,  by  His  Word  the  Father  made 
(Fol.  69b,  col.  2)  everything.  Who  is  over  every  one. 
Who  hath  dominion  over  everything  that  is  in  the 
heavens,  in  the  earth,  in  the  sea,  and  in  the  abysses  ; 
Who  founded  the  mountains  and  the  hills,  and  created 
the  sun  and  moon,  and  the  light  and  the  darkness ;  the 
subject  of  the  preaching  of  the  Apostles,  the  coming 
[announced  by]  the  Prophets,  the  birth  for  all  the 
world,  the  baptism  for  every  man.  Can  He,  the  Al- 
mighty, ride  upon  a  womb  made  of  dust  ?  Can  He,  a 
Being  of  heaven,  without  defilement  and  sin,  ride  upon 
a  womb  made  of  dust  ?  Can  He  Who  had  no  form 
take  the  form  of  a  man  ?  Can  He,  Who  is  enveloped 
in  fire,  Whom  ten  thousand  times  ten  thousand  angels 
hover  round  about,  be  carried  in  a  belly  ?  Can  He, 
[before  Whom]  august  priests  with  their  incense  and 
sacrifices  and  burnt  offerings  tremble,  be  carried  in  the 
belly  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  is  alone  King  of  kings, 
and  God  of  gods,  and  Lord  of  lords,  be  carried  in  the 
womb  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Whom  everyone  serveth 
and  Who  Himself  serveth  none,  (Fol.  69b,  col.  3)  be 
carried  in  the  belly  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Whose  throne 
is  heaven  and  Whose  footstool  is  earth,  in  Whose  hand 
are  contained  the  waters  of  the  sea,  be  carried  in  the 
belly  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  was  swathed  in  birth 
clothes  and  lay  in  a  manger,  be  carried  in  the  belly  of  a 
virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  grew  up  like  a  man  in  every  re- 
spect— sin  alone  excepted — and  went  about  like  a  man, 
Who  is  able  [to  do]  everything,  be  carried  in  the  belly 
of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  in  His  might  kindled  fire 
and  contended  against  wicked  men,  be  carried  in  the 
belly  of  a  virgin  \   Can  He,  Who  was  alone  in  the  man- 

IIO 


Anftunciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

ner  of  His  birth,  Whose  palace  is  in  the  heights,  Whose 
abode  is  crowned  with  and  surrounded  by  fire — Him 
do  I  serve,  His  holy  Name  do  I  praise,  with  His  exalted 
arm  and  His  stretched-out  right  hand — be  carried  in 
the  belly  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  is  conceived  like 
a  man — sin  alone  excepted — Who  cannot  be  robbed  of 
His  throne — be  carried  in  the  belly  [of  a  virgin]  ?  Can 
He,  Who  gathereth  together  the  whole  world  and  (Fol. 
70a,  col.  i)  hath  given  joy  to  those  who  follow  Him,  be 
carried  in  the  belly  [of  a  virgin]  ?  Thou  being  a  crea- 
ture of  the  dust,  art  chosen  by  our  God,  the  Heavenly 
One,  and  art  His  habitation,  can  He,  in  truth,  be  carried 
in  the  belly  of  a  virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  is  enveloped  in 
the  light,  joy  [being]  before  Him,  from  Whose  mouth 
righteousness  and  peace  issue.  Who  is  almighty.  Him 
do  the  Cherubim  and  Seraphim  carry,  and  they  cease 
not  to  do  this  when  He  sendeth  forth  the  lightnings 
and  their  wings  tremble  at  His  voice,  can  He  come  and 
is  it  possible  for  Him  to  be  carried  in  the  belly  of  a 
virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  looketh  upon  the  world  to  its 
fullest  extent,  Whom  no  man  can  see,  come  and  be 
carried  in  a  human  belly  ?  O  Mother  of  God,  Mother 
of  the  Light,  can  He,  Who  is  indeed  the  Giver  of  food 
to  every  being  of  flesh,  Who  maketh  every  one  to  re- 
joice, from  Whom  are  all  souls,  come  and  be  carried  in 
a  human  belly  ?  Can  He,  Who  is  the  boast  and  the 
guide  of  all.  Who  hath  created  [everything]  in  His  wis- 
dom, (Fol.  70a,  col.  2)  Who  maketh  heaven  to  stand 
without  a  pillar,  come  and  be  carried  in  the  belly  of  a 
virgin  ?  Can  He,  Who  hath  made  strong  the  earth 
upon  the  waters,  the  waters  having  nothing  to  stand 
upon  except  His  Being,  He  Who  maketh  possible  His 
design,  come  and  be  carried  in  a  human  belly  ?  Can 
He,  Who  maketh  strong  everything  by  His  wisdom,  and 
by  His  counsel,  and  by  His  work,  and  by  His  knowledge, 
and  by  His  right  hand.  Who  is  almighty.  Who  speaketh 
and  it  indeed  cometh  to  pass,  come  and  be  carried  in  a 

III 


The  History  of  the  Virgi7i  Mary 

human  belly,  the  fire  touching  the  flesh  thereof,  which 
is  of  the  dust  and  is  derived  from  Adam,  and  place  His 
Godhead  within  it  ?  Who  can  hold  fire  in  his  hands 
without  tongs  ?  Yet  that  fire  hath  put  on  the  flesh 
which  is  of  the  dust,  and  hath  come  and  is  carried  in 
a  human  belly.  He  to  Whom,  with  His  Father,  praise 
belongeth.  Who  appeared  in  His  appointed  time,  hath 
come  and  is  carried  in  a  human  belly.  He  Whose  king- 
dom everyone  confesseth,  (Fol.  70a,  col.  3)  Whose 
majesty  everyone  serveth,  and  worshippeth,  at  Whose 
might  everyone  trembleth,  by  Whose  wisdom  the 
heavens  and  the  earth  stand.  Whom  all  the  ends  of  the 
earth  confess,  hath  come  and  is  carried  in  a  human 
belly  ;  and  He  willed  to  be  able  to  come  into  a  human 
belly.    Behold,  a  virgin  hath  put  on  fire  !  " 

V  {sic).  To  the  praise  of  our  Lady  Mary  by  the 
Prophets  and  Apostles,  we  will  add  our  praise.  With 
praises  will  we  praise  thee,  O  our  Lady,  and  we  will 
magnify  thee,  and  we  will  bless  thee  ;  we  will  glorify 
thee  and  present  gifts  unto  thee,  and  we  will  make  en- 
treaty and  supplication  unto  thee  always.  O  Mother 
of  God,  our  Lady,  we  pray  unto  thee.  The  Fathers  of 
olden  time  worshipped  the  Son  Who  was  born  of  thy 
virginity,  the  righteous  men  and  the  martyrs  gave 
praise  to  thy  name,  they  compare  thee  to  thy  Son,  Who 
redeemeth  all.  O  our  Lady,  Mother  of  God,  we  make 
supplication  unto  thee.  The  angels  tremble  at  His 
Word,  and  everyone  is  obedient  to  His  command.  O 
our  Lady,  Mother  of  God,  we  make  supplication  unto 
thee,  the  refuge  of  the  oppressed,  (Fol.  70b,  col.  i)  the 
reliever  of  the  oppressed,  He  was  swift  to  enter  thy 
belly.  O  our  Lady  and  our  deliverer,  may  thy  prayer 
and  supplication  come  to  us,  and  bless  us,  and  be  with 
us  with  abundant  compassion  !  Thou  hast  become  the 
habitation  of  the  Most  High,  O  our  Lady.  He,  the 
Most  Exalted  of  the  exalted  ones,  was  carried  accord- 
ing to  His  own  design  and  brought  forth  according  to 

112 


Annu7tciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

His  intent,  by  a  virgin,  and  after  He  was  born  her  vir- 
ginity was  found  intact.  His  birth  and  His  coming 
[are]  the  light.  We  confess  and  worship  the  Godhead 
of  Him  Who  came  from  His  exalted  position  and  de- 
scended for  the  salvation  of  the  world.  We  confess  and 
worship  His  Godhead,  and  He  is  declared  to  be  with 
the  Father  in  His  Being,  and  He  came  down  from 
heaven  by  the  command  of  His  Father.  We  confess 
and  worship  Him  Who  hung  out  the  heavens  like  a 
chamber,  and  Who  fashioned  man  in  His  own  image 
and  likeness.  We  confess  and  worship  the  Godhead  of 
Him  Who  created  His  pavilion  in  the  waters  (Fol.  70b, 
col.  2),  Who  maketh  the  rains  to  fall  from  the  roof  of 
heaven,  Who  feedeth  all  souls  and  satisfieth  the  hungry. 
We  confess  and  worship  the  Divinity  of  Him  Who, 
whilst  the  earth,  and  the  world,  and  the  heavens  were 
not  completed,  was  Himself  completed  in  the  womb  of 
the  holy  woman  Mary  ;  Who  dwelt  there  and  became 
incarnate  so  that  He  might  show  His  power  over  many 
brethren.  We  confess  and  worship  the  Godhead  of 
Him  Who  stablisheth  justice  for  the  orphans,  Who 
willeth  to  be  done  thedesire  of  thepoor, and  giveth  food 
to  all  flesh,  to  Whom  all  men  give  thanks.  We  confess 
and  worship  the  Godhead  of  Him  Who  made  the  dumb 
to  speak,  and  opened  the  ears  of  the  deaf,  and  endowed 
the  blind  with  light,  Who  speaketh  with  His  word  and 
everything  cometh  to  pass.  Of  Him  Who  stablished 
the  mountains  in  equilibrium  with  the  sea  we  confess 
and  worship  the  Godhead,  Who  compacted  heaven  and 
earth.  Him  Who  provided  (Fol.  70b,  col.  3)  the  advent 
of  the  Prophets,  and  the  preaching  of  the  Prophets, 
Him  do  we  worship,  and  Him  do  we  confess.  Him 
Who  came  and  put  on  mortal  human  flesh  in  order  to 
redeem  men,  and  women,  and  children — the  Son  of 
God,  diminished  in  no  wise,  came.  He  came  and  was 
conceived  like  a  man  by  a  woman — Him  do  we  confess 
and  His  Godhead  do  we  worship.    The  sun  and  the 

I  113 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?2  Mary 

moon  are  subject  unto  Him.  He  Who  is  called  the 
firstborn  of  the  Father  came  into  the  belly  of  the  holy 
woman  [Mary]  according  to  the  declaration  of  the  wit- 
nesses (or,  martyrs). 

[Here  follows  (Fol.  yob,  col.  3, 1.  17-F0I.  72a,  col.  i, 
1.  17)  a  very  long  prayer  for  all  those  who  were 
present  in  the  church  that  day  ;  at  the  end  of  it 
the  author  puts  into  the  mouth  of  the  Virgin 
Mary  the  following :] 
And  Mary  said  thus  : 

I  praise  Him  and  hymn  Him,  giving  thanks  unto 
Him.  And  I  bless  and  exalt  Him  and  magnify  Him, 
and  He  maketh  my  heart  to  rejoice.  And  I  sing  my 
joyful  song,  and  I  make  music  with  my  mouth,  and  I 
praise  Him  with  my  lips,  and  I  adore  with  my  belly, 
and  I  set  the  fear  of  Thy  Name  in  my  heart.  And  I 
declare,  and  I  fear,  and  I  tremble  at  what  hath  hap- 
pened to  me,  the  wonder  of  (Fol.  72a,  col.  2)  His  work 
and  wisdom,  which  cannot  be  described  by  me.  The 
God  of  the  exalted  ones,  the  Lord  of  the  mighty  ones, 
Whom  the  heavens  and  the  earth  cannot  contain,  how 
can  He  be  contained  and  how  can  He  be  carried  by  me  ? 
I  will  magnify  my  God,  the  Lord  of  all  created  things. 
What  can  I  say,  and  what  shall  I  tell  of  His  greatness, 
concerning  which  the  angel  made  declaration  ?  For  he 
said  unto  me,  "  Thou  shalt  bear  a  Son  to  Whose  king- 
dom there  is  no  end."  How  can  He  be  contained  and 
carried  by  me  ?  I  will  magnify  my  God  and  the  God 
of  all  creation.  How  great  is  the  majesty  which  is  His  ! 
Shall  He  Who  cannot  be  contained  be  contained  and 
carried  ?  How  many  are  the  years  and  the  number  of 
the  days  of  Him  Who  is  to  be  carried  in  my  belly  ! 
How  can  He,  Whom  ten  thousand  times  ten  thousand 
holy  angels  cannot  carry,  be  contained  and  carried  in 
my  belly  ?  How  can  He,  Who  beareth  all  creation  by 
His  power.  Who  ruleth  everything  (Fol.  72a,  col.  3) 
from  the  ends  of  the  heavens  to  the  ends  of  the  earth, 

114 


Annunciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

come  and  be  carried  [by  me]  ?  How  can  my  belly  carry 
Him  by  Whose  word  everything  becometh,  at  Whose 
words  the  thunders  and  the  lightnings  tremble,  Who 
is  the  Lord  of  all,  Who  conceiveth  the  thunders,  and 
Who  maketh  the  waters  to  descend  in  their  floods  ?  By 
me  the  Word  hath  become  flesh  ;  He  hath  come  Who 
shall  kindle  fire  round  about  me.  And  a  cloud  came  in 
my  face  and  shone  upon  me.  And  dew  came  upon  me 
and  wetted  me  from  my  head  to  my  feet  :  this  was 
from  Him.  I  have  found  what  He  is  able  to  do.  How 
can  it  be  that  He  cometh  to  me  to  be  conceived,  and 
to  enter  into  a  virgin  belly  ?  O  Lord,  Lord  of  the 
mighty  ones.  Who  hath  visited  me,  the  fire  being  holy, 
none  is  able  to  touch  it.  And  He  came  into  [my]  belly, 
which  was  in  truth  virgin,  and  the  fire  of  divinity  did 
not  burn  up  my  flesh,  nay,  (Fol.  72b,  col.  i)  it  made  me 
its  abode,  and  set  me  to  be  its  tabernacle.  He  made 
strong  His  Godhead  in  His  holy  flesh,  and  His  Godhead 
was  carried  in  a  virgin.  Though  a  Being  of  heaven  He 
came  down  and  became  incarnate  by  me.  It  was  not 
diflScult  for  my  flesh  to  carry  His  Godhead,  and  that 
fire  drew  nigh  to  my  flesh,  and  did  not  consume  my 
body,  and  my  flesh  mingled  with  His  holy  Godhead. 
My  flesh,  which  is  from  Adam,  mingled  with  His  holy 
flesh.  With  the  form  of  a  man  He  did  all  this  work  ; 
He  Whose  dominion  cannot  be  taken  from  Him  was 
carried  in  my  belly.  He  Who  cannot  be  contended 
against  in  the  world  was  carried  in  a  human  belly  ;  He 
Who  maketh  the  mountains  to  quake  with  fear  was 
carried  in  the  womb  of  a  virgin. 

IX.  And  certain  of  the  holy  Apostles  answered  and 
said  unto  her  :  How  couldst  thou  carry  and  contain, 
O  our  Lady,  Him  (Fol.  72b,  col.  2)  Whom  a  belly  can- 
not carry  ?  How  couldst  thou  carry  and  contain,  O  our 
Lady,  Him  Whose  tabernacle  is  in  the  waters,  and 
Whose  habitation  is  crowned  with  fire  ?  How  couldst 
thou  carry  and  contain,  O  our  Lady,  Him  Whose  foot 

115 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

treadeth  the  water  of  the  sea  ?  How  couldst  thou  carry 
and  contain,  O  our  Lady,  Him  Who  setteth  bounds  to 
the  sea  by  His  command,  Wlio  bringeth  the  summer 
and  all  greenness  ?  How  couldst  thou  carry  and  con- 
tain Him  Whose  Nature  no  man  understandeth,  Who 
sitteth  above  all  ?  O  our  Lady,  how  couldst  thou  carry 
Him  Who  provideth  clothes  for  the  naked,  bread  for 
the  hungry,  and  a  fountain  of  water  for  the  thirsty  ? 
O  our  Lady,  how  couldst  thou  carry  and  contain  Him 
Who  raiseth  up  the  fallen,  and  exalteth  the  believers, 
and  judgeth  the  oppressed  ?  O  our  Lady,  Mother  of 
God,  how  couldst  thou  (Fol.  72b,  col.  3)  carry  and  con- 
tain, without  thy  womb  finding  it  difficult  to  carry  fire, 
Him  Whose  every  act  is  justice  and  judgement  ?  O  our 
Lady  and  deliverer,  how  couldst  thou  carry  Him  ?  And 
the  fire  drew  nigh  unto  thee,  the  virgin,  the  Mother  of 
the  heavenly  King,  Who  restoreth  righteousness  to  sin- 
ners on  their  repentance.  How  couldst  thou  carry  and 
contain  Him,  the  Fire  that  could  do  all  these  things. 
Who  is  a  father  to  orphans,  a  support  to  the  widower, 
and  a  protection  for  the  widow  ?  O  Mother  of  God, 
our  Lady,  Mother  of  the  Heavenly  King,  the  King  of 
heaven  and  earth,  how  couldst  thou  carry  and  put  on 
the  fire  ?  O  Mother  of  God,  may  thy  prayer  and  thy 
petition  make  the  Holy  Spirit  to  be  our  associate,  for 
the  forgiveness  of  sins  and  for  the  mingling  in  the  king- 
dom of  the  heavens,  and  the  renewal  of  the  Holy  Spirit! 
O  our  Lady,  everything,  whatsoever  they  ask  from  thee 
do  thou  grant  it  unto  them  graciously.  O  our  Lady, 
the  Mother  of  the  Light,  if  they  draw  nigh  and  knock 
at  thy  gates,  grant  that  they  (Fol.  73a,  col.  i)  may  be 
free  from  blemish.  O  mother  of  Him  Whom  heaven 
and  earth  cannot  contain,  who  didst  carry  and  embrace 
Him,  pray  for  us,  so  that  through  thy  petition  every- 
one may  live,  even  as  we  live  by  His  coming,  and  that 
we  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven  which  He  hath 
prepared  for  those  who  love  Him. 

116 


Annimciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

[Here  follows  a  short  prayer  for  those  who  are  present 
in  church.] 

X.  As  Gabriel  spake  unto  Mary  when  he  announced 
glad  tidings  unto  her  :  Power  be  to  the  Father  Who 
came  down  to  dwell  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin,  Who 
came  by  His  love — grant  unto  me  a  mouth  that  I  may 
declare  thy  sublime  announcement — Who  came  in  His 
mercy  to  the  daughter  of  David  His  beloved,  that  He 
might  see  that  she  became  to  Him  the  Mother  of  Him 
Who  created  Adam  (Fol.  73a,  col.  2)  and  all  the  world, 
Whose  Name  existed  before  the  sun  was.  He  called  the 
Angel  [Gabriel]  and  sent  him  to  the  pure  Virgin  to  an- 
nounce to  her  the  taking  up  of  the  mission  in  a  mystery 
hidden  from  the  world,  and  full  of  peace  for  the  Vir- 
gin, and  of  a  good  hope  for  all  the  world.  The  being 
of  the  spirit  descended  and  came  to  the  Virgin  ;  he 
blessed  her  and  embraced  her  and  told  her  concerning 
her  conception  which  would  make  everyone  wonder. 
And  he  said  unto  the  Virgin,  "  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O 
Mother  of  my  Lord,  blessed  among  women  !  And 
blessed  be  the  fruit  of  thy  womb." 

XL  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  Angel, "Who 
art  thou,  my  Lord  ?  And  what  is  the  announcement 
which  thou  wouldst  declare  ?  What  thou  sayest  is 
strange  to  me,  and  the  manner  thereof  I  do  not  under- 
stand." And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  Blessed  art 
thou  among  women.  A  great  One  is  pleased  to  make 
His  abode  in  thee.  Be  not  afraid :  through  thee  Divine 
grace  hath  decided  to  pour  out  His  mercy  for  ever  and 
ever."  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  Angel,  (Fol. 
73a,  col.  3)  "  My  lord,  I  beseech  thee  not  to  frighten 
me.  I  cannot  receive  [thy  news].  What  thou  sayest  is 
far  from  me  ;  I  cannot  find  out  the  import  thereof." 
And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  The  Father  hath  re- 
vealed it  unto  me,  and  I  will  reveal  the  mystery  unto 
thee,  because  I  was  with  Them,  with  His  Son,  when 
He  sent  me  [to  tell  thee]  that  from  thee  He  was  going 

117 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

to  arise  in  the  world."  And  Mary  answered  and  said 
unto  the  Angel,  "  Thou  art  fire,  and  thine  apparel  is 
coals  of  fire  ;  frighten  thou  me  not,  O  fire.  Why  dost 
thou  disturb  me  ?  For  all  that  thou  sayest  unto  me  is 
new."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing  for  thee  ;  a  mother  thou  shalt  change  into  (?). 
I  took  the  announcement,  and  I  come  to  thee  concern- 
ing the  conception  of  the  Most  High,  Who  hath  wished 
to  make  His  abode  in  thy  womb."  Mary  answered  and 
said  unto  the  Angel,  "  My  lord,  I  am  afraid  to  receive 
it,  for  when  my  mother  Eve  hearkened  to  the  serpent 
that  spake  to  her  like  a  friend,  he  caused  her  expulsion 
from  Paradise."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  the  Virgin, 
"  He  was  a  deceiver,  and  he  deceived  thy  mother  Eve 
when  he  spake  to  her.  But  I  am  not  to  be  compared 
unto  him,  (Fol.  73b,  col.  i)  for  I  have  come  from  God, 
and  have  been  sent  [by  Him]."  And  Mary  answered 
and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  What  thou  sayest  to  me  is  a 
hard  thing,  and  I  cannot  produce  divine  offspring." 
And  the  Angel  said  unto  Mary,  "  Nevertheless  the 
Father  deputed  me  to  come  and  declare  to  thee  that 
His  Son  will  spring  from  thy  womb,  and  thou  sayest 
that  thou  wilt  not  accept  Him."  And  Mary  answered 
and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  Thy  speech  is  fair,  yet  never- 
theless I  accept  nature  ;  there  can  be  no  offspring  to  a 
virgin."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  We  are  stupe- 
fied watching  His  word,  but  when  He  hath  commanded 
us  we  cannot  refuse  [to  obey].  As  for  thee,  why 
shouldst  thou  not  blossom  ?  Wilt  thou  resist  all  that 
the  Father  wisheth  ?  "  And  Mary  answered  and  said 
unto  the  Angel,  "  My  lord,  I  am  disturbed,  and  I  am 
afraid.  Thou  makest  me  to  appeal  to  nature  :  a  virgin 
cannot  bring  forth  a  child."  And  the  Angel  said  unto 
Mary,  "  The  beloved  of  the  Father  will  come  down 
thus,  that  thou  mayest  bring  forth  in  thy  virgin  state 
in  truth.  Accept  the  Will  of  the  Father,  and  do  not 
make  thyself  hard  and  obstinate." 

118 


An7iimciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

XII.  And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  him,  (Fol. 
73b,  col.  2)  "  Thine  honourable  appearance,  and  thy 
awesome  announcement,  and  thy  burning  fire,  and  the 
love  of  God  I  cannot  gainsay,  nevertheless,  for  me  to 
accept  thee  is  difhcult."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her, 
"  I  brought  unto  thee  the  goodly  announcement  that 
thou  shalt  bring  forth  thy  Lord  ;  I  have  brought  unto 
thee  a  Child.  I  give  thanks  unto  Him  Who  hath  been 
pleased  that  thou  shalt  become  a  mother,  He  being  thy 
Child."  And  Mary  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  I  am  a 
child,  and  I  a  woman  am  unable  to  receive  fire  ;  and 
thine  announcement  is  hard  [to  me],  and  I  cannot  ac- 
cept it  as  thou  sayest."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  the 
blessed  woman,  "  This  day  hath  hope  arisen  for  Adam 
in  thee,  for  God  hath  willed  to  come  down  and  to 
dwell  in  thee,  and  He  will  set  him  free.  Receive  this 
[announcement]  and  be  thankful."  And  Mary  said 
unto  the  Angel,  "  This  day  have  I  marvelled,  and  I 
marvel  at  this  which  thou  sayest.  Peradventure  there 
is  some  guile  in  thy  word."  And  the  Angel  said  unto 
her,  "  When  thou  hast  accepted  I  will  announce  unto 
thee  peace,  and  I  will  bring  unto  thee  truly  my  Lord 
Himself.  (Fol.  73b,  col.  3)  For  even  thus  hath  He 
wished  to  arise  from  thee  in  the  world."  And  Mary 
answered  and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "All  thy  words  are 
[hard].  I  beseech  thee,  my  lord,  not  to  lie  unto 
me.  I  find  hard  the  announcement  that  thou  declarest 
unto  me,  and  I  cannot  accept  it."  And  the  Angel  said 
unto  her,  "  He  shall  come  unto  thee,  and  He  shall  dw^ll 
in  thy  womb.  Hold  not  to  be  difficult  [to  understand] 
the  operation  of  grace  ;  ascribe  praise  unto  Him  Who 
hath  been  pleased  to  make  His  abode  in  thee."  And 
Mary  answered  and  said  unto  him,  "  My  lord,  I  know 
no  man,  and  I  have  had  union  with  none  ;  how  can 
there  be  a  child  ?  "  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her, 
"  Thou  shalt  conceive  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  Who  cannot 
be  sought  out,  and  Who  hath  union  with  none.   And 

119 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

the  power  of  the  Most  High  shall  dwell  upon  thee,  and 
it  shall  rise  from  thy  womb."  And  Mary  said  unto 
him,  '■'  Watch  now.  His  word  cannot  be  gainsaid.  H 
the  Holy  Spirit  cometh  to  me,  I  am  His  Mother,  and 
I  will  serve  Him,  and  He  shall  be  my  Lord,  according 
to  thy  word."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  Let  thy 
head  be  lifted  up,  (Fol.  74a,  col.  i)  O  Virgin,  let  thy 
heart  rejoice,  O  holy  woman  ;  a  second  heaven  is  in 
thee,  the  world  shall  be  delivered,  and  in  thy  Son  shall 
be  peace."  And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
"  My  head,  according  to  thy  word,  and  the  appearance 
of  thy  Lord,  rejoiceth.  H  the  face  of  thee,  who  art 
His  servant,  be  thus,  what  is  the  face  of  thy  Lord  and 
God  like  ?  "  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  ''  We  are 
not  able  to  see  Him  that  sent  us,  and  we  greatly  fear 
Him  Whose  Father  is  covered  with  fire,  and  hidden  in 
fire."  And  Mary  answered,  "  Thou  sayest,  I  fear 
greatly,  and  thou  hast  made  me  greatly  afraid.  Now 
if  He  is  like  lire,  as  thou  tellest  me,  how  can  my  womb 
help  being  injured  by  His  flame  wherein  He  dwelleth?" 
And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  Thy  womb  truly  is  filled 
and  is  sealed  with  holy  virginity,  the  place  that  the 
Holy  One  loveth  exceedingly.  The  angel  came  that 
he  might  appear  therein."  Mary  answered  and  said 
unto  him,  "  Reveal  to  me  why  He  is  pleased  to  take  up 
His  abode  in  my  humble  [body].  For  behold,  (Fol. 
74a,  col.  2)  the  daughters  of  kings  fill  the  world,  and 
why  should  He  desire  me  ?  "  And  the  Angel  said  unto 
her,  "  He  hath  the  power  to  dwell  in  the  rich,  but  He 
loveth  thy  humility,  so  that  He  may  become  a  com- 
panion of  the  poor  and  needy,  and  enrich  them.  And 
with  this  [intent]  He  will  make  Himself  manifest." 
And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  Ex- 
plain to  me  also,  if  it  be  that  thou  knowe'st,  when  doth 
He  wish  to  come  to  me,  and  when,  according  to  thy 
word,  He  dwelleth  in  me  whether  the  fire  will  come 
when  He  appeareth  unto  me  ?  "    And  the  Angel  said 

120 


Annunciation  of  the  Archangel  Gabriel 

unto  her,  "  He  hath  desired  and  will  come,  and  behold, 
He  will  take  up  His  abode  in  thee,  but  that  He  may 
not  terrify  thee  thou  wilt  not  apprehend  Him.  And 
I  cannot  see  thee  filled  with  burning  fire."  And  Mary 
answered  and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  My  lord,  I  wish 
to  ask  thee  of  another  matter.  Explain  to  me  clearly 
concerning  my  Son  Who  shall  dwell  with  me,  for  I 
know  not  what  to  do  in  respect  of  Him,  and  I  would 
not  err."  And  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  Say  Holy, 
Holy,  Holy.  For  the  angels  say  nothing  (Fol.  74a,  col. 
3)  except  Holy.  We  have  nothing  to  say  about  thy 
Son  except  this."  And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  "  Holy,  blessed,  and  praised  is  the  Name  of  Him 
Who  hath  looked  upon  the  lowly  estate  of  His  Mother. 
Behold,  from  now  and  henceforth  all  the  generations 
of  the  world  shall  bless  me."  And  the  Angel  said  unto 
her,  "  The  heavens  and  the  watching  angels  exalt  Him, 
the  depths  and  men  praise  Him  Who  hath  come  down 
and  dwelt  in  a  virgin  in  order  to  set  free  all  [men].  His 
mercy  is  great.  And  He  Whom  the  heavens  cannot 
support  cannot  be  estimated  with  the  lip.  And  behold, 
His  substance  [is]  in  a  belly.  Beneath  it  heaven  and 
earth  are  mingled.  And  the  angels  give  thanks  unto 
Him  and  to  the  Virgin,  and  minister  unto  the  hidden 
mystery.  Heaven  rejoiceth,  keeping  vigil  because  of 
Him,  and  the  earth  rejoiceth  over  the  Virgin.  And  the 
two  rejoicing  together  ascribe  praise  unto  the  Son  of 
God,  and  they  all  keep  vigil  together,  and  men  praise 
the  Son  Who  hath  made  peace  (Fol.  74b,  col.  i)  among 
them.  And  being  full  [of  joy]  they  incite  thanks  from 
all  the  world  to  Thee,  the  invisible  fire,  and  from  every 
mouth  in  the  world  [come]  praise  and  singing.  To 
Thee  be  praise  for  ever.    Amen." 


121 


THE  CONCEPTION  AND  BIRTH  OF  OUR 
LADY  MARY,  THE  BEARER  OF  GOD 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  78a.] 

TO  BE  READ  ON  THE  FIRST  DAY  OF  THE  MONTH   GENBOT 

(Fol.  78a,  col.  l)  IN  THE  NAME  OF  THE  FATHER,  AND  OF 
THE  SON,  AND  OF  THE  HOLY  SPIRIT,  ONE  GOD,  WE  BEGIN 
AND  WRITE  WITH  THE  HELP  OF  OUR  LORD  JESUS  CHRIST, 
THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CONCEPTION  AND  BIRTH  OF  OUR 
LADY  MARY,  THE  BEARER  OF  GOD.  MAY  HER  BLESSING  BE 
WITH  US  FOR  EVER  !    AMEN. 


THERE  was  a  certain  man  of  the  twelve  tribes  of 
Israel  whose  name  was  lyakem  (Joachim),  who 
was  of  the  descendants  of  David,  and  he  was  exceed- 
ingly rich.  And  his  wife  was  of  the  children  of  Aaron, 
and  her  name  was  Hanna,  and  they  both  were  lovers  of 
fasting  and  prayer.  And  when  he  brought  offerings  to 
God  he  doubled  them,  and  none  did  as  he  did  among 
the  children  of  Israel,  and  he  thought  and  said,  "  This 
my  offering  shall  be  on  behalf  of  all  the  children  of 
Israel,  so  that  God  shall  pardon  all  their  sins."  And 
when  the  festival  of  the  Jews  arrived,  all  the  children 
of  Israel  brought  and  offered  up  their  offerings.  And 
a  certain  man  (Fol.  78a,  col.  2)  of  the  children  of  Israel, 
whose  name  was  Robel  (Reuben),  came,  and  he  said 
unto  lyakem,  "  It  is  not  seemly  for  thee  to  present 
[thine]  offering  before  us,  because  thou  hast  no  seed  in 
Israel." 

I.  And  when  lyakem  heard  this  word  he  was  sad 
with  a  great  sadness,  and  he  began  to  think  and  to  say, 
"  Behold,  all  the  children  of  Israel  have  seed,  but  I  have 
none  "  ;  and  then  he  thought  about  the  righteous  and 

122 


Conception  and  Birth  of  our  Lady  Mary 

good  men  [of  old],  and  how  they  had  seed  and  sons. 
And  he  remembered  our  father  Abraham,  the  first  one, 
and  he  knew  how  God  had  given  him  a  son  in  his  old 
age,  and  how  he  had  called  him  Isaac.  And  lyakem 
was  sorrowful,  and  he  did  not  speak  to  his  wife  because 
of  his  sorrow,  and  because  of  what  Robel  had  said  unto 
him.  And  he  withdrew  himself  and  departed  into  the 
desert,  and  he  fasted  to  God  forty  days  and  forty  nights. 
And  he  said  in  his  mind,  "  No  food  shall  enter  my  belly 
until  God  shall  grant  me  my  petition  and  judge  my 
prayer,  neither  meat  nor  drink."  (Fol.  78a,  col.  3) 
And  his  wife  Hanna  gave  herself  up  to  weeping  and 
lamentation,  and  she  made  entreaty  and  supplication 
to  God  that  He  would  give  her  a  son,  and  remove  from 
her  [her]  disgrace.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  their 
great  festival  arrived,  a  certain  woman  from  among  her 
neighbours  came  and  said  unto  her,  "  How  much 
longer  wilt  thou  exalt  sorrow  in  thine  heart,  and  punish 
thyself  with  this  sorrow  ?  Behold,  the  festival  hath 
arrived,  and  therefore  it  is  not  seemly  for  thee  to  sorrow 
so  exceedingly.  But  take  this  garment  which  my 
teacher  hath  given  unto  me,  and  array  thyself  in  it,  for 
this  garment  belongeth  to  the  apparel  of  kings  ;  and  it 
is  meet  for  thee  to  put  it  on."  And  Hanna  said  unto 
her,  "  Take  it  away  from  me,  for  I  cannot  put  it  on  by 
reason  of  the  great  sorrow  which  is  mine  because  I  have 
no  son.  Perhaps  one  dear  to  thee  hath  given  thee  this 
garment  ;  wouldst  thou  associate  thyself  with  me  in 
thy  sin  ?  "  And  the  woman  answered  (Fol.  78b,  col.  i) 
and  said  unto  Hanna,  "  He  hath  done  well ;  God  hath 
shut  up  thy  womb  so  that  thou  canst  obtain  neither  son 
nor  seed  among  the  children  of  Israel." 

II.  And  when  Hanna  heard  her  she  sorrowed  with  a 
great  sorrow.  Then  she  rose  up  quickly,  and  she 
stripped  off  her  apparel,  and  she  washed  herself  and  put 
on  fine  raiment,  and  when  the  ninth  hour  of  the  day 
had  come  she  went  to  pray  in  the  house  of  the  sanc- 

123 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

tuary.  And  as  she  was  going  along  she  saw  a  high  tree, 
and  in  it  were  birds  with  their  young  ones,  and  Hanna 
said,  "  Let  Thy  blessing  be  upon  them,  O  Lord,  and 
multiply  them  exceedingly,  and  hearken  unto  my 
prayer,  and  grant  me  my  petition  ;  and  bless  me  even 
as  Thou  didst  bless  the  belly  of  Sara,  and  didst  give  her 
a  son  in  her  old  age."  And  then  she  lifted  up  her  eyes 
to  heaven,  and  she  began  to  weep  and  to  make  lamenta- 
tion, saying,  "  Woe  is  me  !  Unto  whom  shall  I  liken 
myself  ?  Must  I  then  liken  myself  (Fol.  78b,  col.  2)  to 
the  beasts  and  the  birds  ?  But  [how  can  I,]  for  the 
beasts  and  the  birds  have  [their]  young  ones.  Woe  is 
me  !  Unto  what  shall  I  liken  myself  ?  Must  I  liken 
myself  to  the  earth  ?  But  even  the  earth  hath  fruit  in 
it.'" 

IIL  And  whilst  she  was  weeping  and  making  lamen- 
tation in  this  manner — now  she  did  not  raise  her  eyes 
to  heaven — behold,  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  came  down 
from  heaven.  And  he  stood  up  before  her,  and  he  said 
unto  her,  "  Behold,  God  hath  heard  thy  prayer,  and 
He  hath  accepted  thy  petition,  and  He  hath  given  thee 
a  son."  And  Hanna  said,  "  My  Lord  and  my  God  !  \i 
it  be  that  Thou  hast  given  me  a  son  I  will  give  him  to 
God,  and  I  will  dedicate  him  to  the  service  of  the 
sanctuary  all  the  days  of  his  life."  And  then  the  Angel 
said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  lyakem  thy  husband  hath  come 
from  the  desert,  and  there  is  a  young  goat  with  him  ; 
take  thou  and  eat." 

IV.  And  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  went  to  lyakem,  and 
he  said  unto  him,  "  God  hath  heard  thy  prayer,  and  He 
hath  accepted  (Fol.  78b,  col.  3)  thy  petition  ;  and  as 
for  thy  wife  Hanna  she  shall  conceive."  And  when 
lyakem  heard  these  words,  he  rejoiced  with  a  great  joy, 
and  gave  thanks  unto  the  Lord  his  God.  Then  lyakem 
called  the  shepherds  of  his  flocks  and  herds,  and  he  said 
[unto  them]  "  Bring  ye  two  rams  for  a  sacrifice  and  an 
offering  unto  my  Lord  and  my  God.    And  bring  me 

124 


Her  Conception  and  Birth 

twelve  oxen  for  an  offering  to  the  house  of  the  sanctu- 
ary of  God,  and  bring  me  eight  sheep  for  the  evening 
meal  of  the  festival."  And  they  did  as  he  commanded 
them,  and  lyakem  came  [back]  with  the  shepherds  of 
his  flock.  And  Hanna  rose  up  and  stood  before  the 
door  of  the  house,  and  when  she  saw  her  husband 
coming  to  her  she  went  to  him,  and  she  embraced  his 
neck,  and  she  said  unto  him,  "  Dost  thou  not  know  that 
God  hath  had  mercy  upon  me,  and  hath  shown  me 
compassion,  and  hath  blessed  me  with  a  great  blessing  ? 
For  she  who  was  barren  shall  not  henceforth  be  barren, 
and  she  who  had  no  children  is  now  with  child."  And 
having  (Fol.  79a,  col.  i)  entered  his  house  lyakem  rested 
therein  that  day.  And  on  the  morrow  lyakem  rose  up, 
and  took  his  offering  with  him,  and  he  thought  in  his 
heart,  saying,  "  If  God  accepteth  my  offering  from  me, 
behold,  I  shall  see  my  face  in  the  crown  that  is  in  the 
place  of  the  sanctuary."  Now  there  was  in  the  place  of 
the  sanctuary  a  crown  that  rested  on  the  altar.  And 
when  any  one  of  the  children  of  Israel  brought  an  offer- 
ing or  oblation  to  God,  if  it  were  accepted  by  Him  his 
face  appeared  in  the  crown  as  in  a  mirror  unto  him  that 
brought  the  offering.  But  if  his  offering  were  not  ac- 
cepted his  face  did  not  appear  in  the  crown.  And  when 
lyakem  brought  the  offering  he  saw  the  vision  of  his 
face  in  the  mirror,  and  he  said,  "  Behold,  I  know  that 
God,  the  Compassionate,  hath  hearkened  unto  my 
prayer,  and  hath  received  my  petition,  and  hath  given 
me  a  child." 

V.  Then  lyakem  (Fol.  79a,  col.  2)  turned  aside  from 
inside  the  place  of  the  sanctuary  of  God,  and  he  went 
into  his  house  with  joy  and  gladness,  and  praising  the 
Lord  God.  And  when  Hanna  had  passed  nine  months 
she  brought  forth  a  daughter  ;  and  Hanna  said  unto 
the  midwife,  "  What  have  I  brought  forth  ?  "  And  she 
said  unto  Hanna,  "  Thou  hast  brought  forth  a  daugh- 
ter."   And  Hanna  said,  "  My  soul  doth  magnify  the 

125 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Lord  this  day."  And  she  called  the  name  of  that 
daughter  jMary  (Maryam).  And  when  Hanna  had 
passed  forty  days,  she  was  purified,  and  she  put  on  her 
raiment,  and  suckled  that  daughter. 

VI.  And  when  six  months  had  been  fulfilled  for  that 
maiden,  Hanna  made  her  stand  on  the  ground  to  make 
her  try  to  walk  with  her  feet,  and  the  maiden  took  six 
steps  with  her  feet  and  went  back  to  her  mother's 
bosom.  And  Saint  Hanna  said,  "  As  God  liveth,  I  will 
not  let  the  maiden  walk  on  the  ground  until  (Fol.  79a, 
col.  3)  I  take  her  into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  of 
God  "  ;  and  then  she  built  for  her  a  little  chamber, 
and  made  her  to  live  therein  until  she  was  one  year  old. 
And  at  that  time  lyakem  made  a  great  feast,  and  he 
invited  the  priests  and  the  Rabbis  of  the  children  of 
Israel,  and  their  great  men  and  their  elders,  and  satis- 
fied all  of  them  with  food.  And  lyakem  brought  the 
maiden  to  the  priests,  and  they  all  blessed  her,  saying, 
"  May  the  Lord  God  bless  this  maiden,  and  give  her 
strength,  and  power,  and  greatness  of  name  (or,  re- 
nown) for  ever  and  ever  "  ;  and  the  people  of  the  com- 
pany said,  "Amen,  and  Amen." 

VII.  And  then  lyakem  took  her  to  the  chief  priests 
and  the  elders  of  the  people,  and  they  all  blessed  her, 
each  according  to  their  names,  saying,  "  May  the  Lord 
God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  Who  dwelleth  in 
the  heights,  bless  this  maiden  with  a  great  blessing 
which  shall  (Fol.  79b,  col.  i)  never  be  removed  from 
her  "  ;  and  then  her  mother  took  her  and  brought  her 
into  the  chamber  which  she  had  built  for  her.  And 
Hanna  said,  "  I  will  praise  God  with  the  praise  of  His 
saints.  I  will  bless  Him,  I  will  give  thanks  unto  Him, 
I  will  call  Him  holy,  and  I  will  exalt  Him,  because  He 
hath  removed  from  me  the  word  of  reproach  and  dis- 
grace, and  hath  given  me  a  daughter  among  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel."  And  when  they  had  made  an  end  of 
the  feast,  they  rose  up  and  came  into  their  houses  with 

126 


Her  Conception  and  Birth 

joy,  and  gladness,  and  thanksgiving  to  the  God  of 
Israel. 

VIII.  And  when  the  maiden  was  two  years  of  age 
lyakem  said  unto  Hanna,  "  Let  us  take  this  maiden 
into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  of  God,  according  to 
what  we  vowed  long  ago,  so  that  God  may  not  be 
wroth  with  us."  And  her  mother  Saint  Hanna  said, 
"  Wait  until  she  shall  be  three  years  of  age,  so  that  she 
may  not  fret  for  her  father  and  her  mother."  And 
when  the  maiden  was  three  years  old  lyakem  called  his 
pure,  Hebrew  maidservants,  (Fol.  79b,  col.  2)  and  put 
candlesticks  with  wax  candles  in  their  hands,  and  they 
walked  before  the  maiden  and  brought  her  into  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary.  And  the  priest  received  her, 
and  blessed  her,  and  said  unto  her,  "  God  shall  magnify 
thy  name  in  that  day  wherein  He  shall  appear  from 
thee."  Then  the  priests  took  her,  and  established  her 
in  the  third  storey  of  the  house  of  the  sanctuary,  and 
the  priests,  and  the  elders,  and  all  the  children  of  Israel 
blessed  her,  and  God  made  great  joy  to  come  upon  her. 
And  her  kinsfolk  and  the  people  of  her  household 
turned  and  went  back  to  their  houses  in  great  joyful- 
ness,  and  they  praised  the  Lord  God,  and  gave  thanks 
unto  Him  because  she  had  not  turned  back  when  they 
carried  her  into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary.  And  Mary 
dwelt  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  of  God  like  a  pure 
dove,  and  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  brought  down  food 
for  her  at  all  times. 

IX.  And  when  Mary  (Fol.  79b,  col.  3)  had  dwelt 
there  for  twelve  years,  the  nobles  and  teachers  of  the 
children  of  Israel  gathered  together,  and  they  said, 
"  Behold,  Mary  hath  dwelt  for  twelve  years  in  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary  of  God,  and  we  are  afraid  that 
she  is  now  too  old  to  be  here."  Then  they  went  to 
Zacharias  and  said  unto  him,  "  Go  into  the  house  of 
the  sanctuary  and  ask  the  Lord  God  to  show  thee  what 
we  shall  do  with  this  maiden,  and  hearken  unto  what 

127 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

God  shall  say  unto  thee  that  we  may  deal  with  her." 
And  straightway  Zacharias  rose  up  and  went  into  the 
Holy  of  Holies,  and  he  made  supplication,  and  he  lifted 
up  his  eyes  to  God,  and  said,  "  My  Lord  and  my  God, 
my  Teacher  and  Saviour,  I  beseech  and  entreat  Thee 
to  show  us  what  to  do  in  respect  of  this  maiden."  And 
straightway  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  came  down  from 
heaven,  and  stood  before  Zacharias,  and  said  unto  him, 
"  O  Zacharias,  gather  together  from  among  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  all  the  men  (Fol.  8oa,  col.  i)  who  are 
unmarried,  and  let  each  one  of  them  bring  his  rod,  and 
thou  shalt  know  that  it  is  meet  that  the  man,  in  whose 
rod  a  sign  shall  appear,  shall  take  this  maiden  ;  give  her 
to  him  and  set  him  as  a  faithful  guardian  of  her."  And 
when  Zacharias  heard  this  word  he  went  forth  from 
the  house  of  the  sanctuary,  and  sent  a  crier  through  all 
the  land  of  Judah  [to  cry  out]  concerning  this  matter. 
And  when  Joseph  the  carpenter  heard  this,  he  cast  his 
saw  from  his  hand  and  went  into  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary,  together  with  all  the  [other]  people.  And 
when  they  were  all  gathered  together  to  Zacharias  the 
priest,  he  took  their  rods  from  them,  and  took  them 
into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary,  and  he  made  supplica- 
tion and  lifted  up  his  eyes  to  God.  And  when  he  had 
finished  his  prayer,  he  took  those  rods  and  brought 
them  out,  and  gave  unto  each  man  his  rod.  And  one 
rod  was  left  behind,  that  which  belonged  to  Joseph, 
and  when  Zacharias  the  priest  gave  Joseph  his  rod,  there 
went  forth  from  that  rod  a  dove,  and  it  perched  (Fol. 
8oa,  col.  2)  upon  Joseph's  head.  Thereupon  Zacharias 
the  priest  said  unto  Joseph,  "  O  Joseph,  thou  art  he 
whom  God  hath  chosen,  and  He  hath  set  thee  to  be  a 
faithful  guardian  of  the  holy  Virgin  ;  take  her  now, 
and  guard  her."  And  Joseph  answered  and  said  unto 
Zacharias,  "  How  can  I  take  to  wife  Mary  ?  For  I  am 
an  old  man  and  advanced  in  years,  and  this  is  a  maiden 
who  hath  just  come  to  the  age  for  m.arriage.    HI  take 

128 


PLA  TE  XX III 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  2  fol.  t^b. 


1.  A  cannibal  gives  a  leprous  beggar  a  drink  of  water 

2.  Mary  prevents  the  Devil  from  carrying  off  the  cannibal's  soul  to  hell 

3.  The  archangel  weighs  the  drink  of  water  against  seventy-eight  murders 

committed  by  the  cannibal  and  it  counterbalances  his  sins 

4.  The  soul  of  the  cannibal  under  Mary's  protection 


Her  Co?2ception  a7id  Birth 

her  I  shall  become  an  object  of  contempt  among  the 
children  of  Israel."  And  Zacharias  the  priest  said  unto 
Joseph,  "  Take  good  heed  to  thyself  lest  God  become 
wroth  with  thee.  Remember  what  God  did  to  Korah, 
Dathan,  and  Abiram,  how  the  earth  opened  her  mouth 
ai<d  swallowed  them  up  alive,  because  they  had  sinned 
and  had  resisted  the  command  of  the  Lord  God.  Now 
therefore,  O  Joseph,  take  heed  unto  thyself,  lest  what 
came  upon  them  come  upon  thee."  And  when  Joseph 
heard  this  word  from  Zacharias  the  priest,  he  feared 
(Fol.  8oa,  col.  3)  with  a  great  fear.  And  he  took  the 
maiden  to  himself,  and  he  said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  O 
Mary,  I  have  taken  thee  from  the  house  of  the  sanc- 
tuary of  God,  but  I  wish  to  go  on  a  journey,  and 
behold,  the  time  [for  going]  hath  arrived.  Take  care 
of  thyself  until  I  return  to  thee,  and  I  will  ask  the 
Lord  God  to  protect  thee  and  to  be  with  thee." 

X.  And  then  the  priests  of  the  children  of  Israel 
were  gathered  together  to  make  curtains  for  the  house 
of  the  sanctuary,  and  Zacharias  said,  "  Bring  ye  unto 
me  eight  pure  maidens,  who  are  virgins,  from  the  de- 
scendants of  David  "  ;  and  they  brought  unto  him 
eight  maidens  even  as  he  had  commanded  them.  And 
[Zacharias]  the  priest  remembered  Mary,  and  he  knew 
that  she  was  holy  and  pure,  and  he  sent  for  her,  and 
she  came  to  him. 

XI.  Then  Zacharias  commanded  these  virgins  to 
come  unto  him,  and  [they  did  so,]  and  he  said  unto 
them,  "  Cast  lots  among  yourselves,  and  she  upon  whom 
the  lot  shall  fall  shall  weave  scarlet  (or,  purple)  wool 
(Fol.  Sob,  col.  i)  into  the  curtains  of  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary."  And  they  did  as  the  priest  commanded 
them,  and  they  cast  lots  among  themselves,  and  the  lot 
fell  upon  Saint  Mary  ;  and  she  took  scarlet  wool  and 
went  into  her  house.  And  in  those  days  Zacharias  the 
priest  withdrew  himself  to  silence,  and  a  priest  whose 
name  was  Samuel  was  appointed  in  his  place,  and  he 

K  129 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

continued  to  perform  the  duties  of  the  priestly  ofhce 
until  the  angel  of  God  came  down  and  loosed  the  fetter 
of  Zacharias's  tongue. 

XII.  And  then  Saint  Mary  gave  herself  up  to  the 
weaving  of  the  scarlet  [wool].  And  one  day  the  blessed 
Mary  rose  up  to  draw  water  at  the  well  of  Nazareth, 
in  the  city  of  David,  and  God  sent  the  Angel  Gabriel  to 
her,  and  he  said  unto  her,  "  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  pure 
and  holy  Mary,  for  God  hath  blessed  thee,  and  He  is 
with  thee,  and  thou  hast  found  grace  with  Him,  and 
thou  shalt  be  the  greatest  of  all  the  women  who  have 
been  created  in  the  world."  And  when  (Fol.  Sob, 
col.  2)  our  Lady  Mary  heard  this  word,  she  turned  to 
the  right  and  to  the  left,  to  see  who  it  was  that  was 
talking  to  her  ;  and  there  was  no  one  talking  to  her,  no 
one  that  she  could  see  whatsoever.  Therefore  she  was 
afraid  with  a  great  fear,  and  she  dropped  her  water  pot, 
and  betook  herself  to  her  house,  and  began  to  weave  the 
scarlet  wool.  And  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  came  to  her 
a  second  time,  and  the  Angel  said  unto  her,  "  Fear  thou 
not,  O  Mary,  for  thou  hast  found  grace  with  God,  and 
great  joy.  Now  thou  shalt  conceive  by  the  word  of  God 
and  by  the  Holy  Spirit."  And  Mary  answered  and 
said  unto  him,  "  How  can  this  happen  unto  me,  seeing 
that  I  have  known  no  man  ?  "  And  the  Angel  said  unto 
her,  "  Now  know  thou,  O  Mary,  that  thou  shalt  not 
become  with  child  after  the  manner  of  [other]  women, 
but  only  the  Holy  Spirit  shall  come  upon  thee.  And 
He  Who  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall  be  holy,  and  He 
shall  be  called  the  Son  of  the  Most  High,  and  His  Name 
shall  be  called  Jesus,  and  He  shall  deliver  (Fol.  Sob, 
col.  3)  His  people  from  their  sins."  And  Mary  an- 
swered and  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  Behold  me,  the 
handmaiden  of  God  ;  my  soul  is  in  His  hand,  and  He 
shall  do  with  me  according  to  His  will.  May  it  be  unto 
me  even  as  thou  hast  said  unto  me." 

XIII.  And  when  Mary  had  finished  weaving  the 

130 


Her  Conception  and  Birth 

scarlet  wool  she  carried  it  to  Zacharias  the  priest,  and 
he  took  it  from  her,  and  blessed  her,  and  said  unto  her, 
"  O  Mary,  behold,  God  shall  magnify  thy  name,  for 
blessed  shalt  thou  be  above  all  the  women  in  the 
world."  And  when  Mary  heard  this  word  she  rejoiced 
with  a  great  joy,  and  gave  thanks  unto  God.  And 
having  gone  forth  from  Zacharias  she  went  to  Elisa- 
beth, her  father's  sister.  And  when  Elisabeth  heard 
that  Mary  had  come  to  her,  she  went  out,  and  opened 
the  doors  to  her,  and  entreated  her  [to  come  in],  and 
said  unto  her,  "  Who  am  I  that  the  Mother  of  my 
Lord  should  come  unto  me  ?  When  I  heard  thy  voice 
saluting  me,  (Fol.  8ia,  col.  i)  the  child  in  my  belly 
leaped  with  joy  and  gladness,  and  made  obeisance  unto 
Him  that  is  in  thy  belly."  And  when  Mary  heard  this 
word  from  Elisabeth  she  lifted  up  her  eyes  to  heaven 
and  said,  "  My  soul  doth  magnify  the  Lord,  and  my 
spirit  rejoiceth  in  my  God  and  Saviour.  For  He  hath 
seen  the  suffering  of  His  handmaiden.  Behold,  hence- 
forth every  generation  shall  hold  me  blessed.  For  the 
Mighty  One  hath  done  great  things  for  me,  and  His 
Name  is  holy.  And  His  mercy  is  from  generation  to 
generation  for  those  who  fear  Him.  The  Mighty  One 
hath  wrought  with  His  arm,  and  He  hath  scattered 
those  who  resist  Him  in  the  thought  of  their  hearts. 
He  hath  plucked  the  mighty  ones  from  their  thrones, 
and  hath  magnified  those  of  low  degree.  He  hath  satis- 
fied the  hungry  by  His  blessing,  and  hath  sent  the  rich 
empty  away.  He  hath  received  Israel  His  servant,  and 
hath  remembered  His  mercy,  which  He  spake  to  our 
fathers,  to  (Fol.  8ia,  col.  2)  Abraham,  and  to  his  seed 
for  ever."  And  then  Mary  dwelt  [there]  for  three 
months,  and  came  to  her  own  house. 

XIV.  And  after  this  Joseph  came  back  from  his 
journey,  and  went  into  his  house,  and  he  saw  that 
Mary  was  with  child.  And  because  of  this  he  smote 
his  face,  and  cast  dust  upon  his  head,  and  threw  him- 

131 


The  History  of  the  Virg'm  Mary 

self  on  the  ground,  and  wept  a  great  weeping,  saying, 
"  Woe  is  me  !  Who  hath  seduced  the  daughter  of 
David  ?  Woe  is  me  !  Who  hath  worked  a  snare  on 
her  ?  Woe  is  me  !  [What]  shall  I  do  to  this  maiden, 
whom  I  took  from  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  a  virgin 
undefiled  ?  Woe  is  me  !  Who  hath  captivated  the  vir- 
gin and  seduced  her  ?  Woe  is  me  !  Behold,  shame  and 
disgrace  will  be  my  portion  in  Israel,  woe  is  me,  when 
this  matter  shall  be  revealed  before  the  priests,  and  the 
Rabbis  and  the  elders  of  the  people  !  Woe  is  me  ! 
Behold,  the  Evil  Serpent  hath  come  to  the  virgin  (Fol. 
8 1  a,  col.  3)  and  seduced  her,  just  as  the  Evil  Beast 
seduced  Eve  and  made  her  to  eat  of  the  tree  whereof 
God  commanded  that  they  should  not  eat."  And 
weeping  and  lamenting  in  this  wise  he  rose  up  from 
the  dust,  and  he  called  Mary  and  said  unto  her, 
"  Woman,  why  hast  thou  done  this  thing,  and  filled 
thy  soul  with  sorrow,  and  defiled  thyself,  and  brought 
great  shame  and  contempt  upon  me  and  upon  thyself 
among  the  people  ?  Hast  thou  forgotten  the  Lord  thy 
God  ?  How  Cometh  it  that  thou  didst  not  remember 
how  thou  didst  formerly  dwell  in  the  Holy  of  Holies, 
and  how  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  brought  thy  food  down 
to  thee  every  day  ?  Didst  thou  forget  how  thou  didst 
grow  up  with  thy  father  in  honour,  and  righteousness, 
and  holiness?  " 

XV.  And  when  Mary  heard  this  word  she  wept  a 
great  weeping,  and  she  uncovered  her  face,  and  she 
said,  "  On  my  part,  there  is  no  wickedness  whatsoever 
in  what  I  have  done."  And  Joseph  said  unto  her,  (Fol. 
8 lb,  col.  i)  "  This  which  is  in  thy  belly,  what  is  it  ?  " 
And  Saint  Mary  answered  and  said,  "  The  Lord  my 
God  knoweth  that  there  is  no  evil  whatsoever  in  that 
which  I  have  done  before  God,  and  that  I  have  not 
defiled  my  body."  And  when  Joseph  heard  this  word, 
he  meditated  and  said,  "  What  shall  I  do  with  this 
woman  ?    If  I  keep  this  matter  secret  I  shall  become 

132 


Her  Conception  and  Birth 

guilty  in  respect  of  the  Law  ;  and  if  I  reveal  this  matter 
I  am  afraid  of  the  children  of  Israel,  lest  it  may  happen 
that  what  is  in  her  belly  is  of  the  Spirit,  and  I  shall  have 
delivered  innocent  blood  [to  death]."  And  then  he 
said,  "  Shall  I  put  her  away  secretly,  or  shall  I  let  her 
live  with  me  ?  "  Then  he  rose  up  and  went  to  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary,  and  he  prayed,  and  lifted  up  his 
eyes  and  said,  "  Thou,  O  Lord  God,  art  the  Maker  of 
everything,  and  the  Creator  of  everything,  and  knowest 
all  things.  There  is  nothing  hidden  from  Thee  ;  what 
is  secret  is  (Fol.  8ib,  col.  2)  manifest  to  Thee.  Thou, 
O  Lord  my  God,  knowest  that  I  took  her  as  a  pure  and 
holy  virgin,  and  that  I  have  done  no  evil  to  her,  and 
now  I  do  not  know  what  hath  happened  to  her  ;  do 
Thou  make  me  to  know  how  I  must  deal  with  this 
woman."  And  Joseph  made  long  his  prayer,  and  he 
looked  up  to  heaven,  and  made  supplication  to  God 
with  weeping  and  lamentation.  And  having  finished 
his  prayer  he  returned  to  his  house,  and  went  to 
sleep. 

XVL  And  that  night  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  ap- 
peared unto  Joseph,  and  said  unto  him  in  a  dream, 
"  Fear  not,  O  Joseph,  to  take  to  wife  Mary  thy  be- 
trothed, for  that  M'hich  is  in  her  belly  is  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  And  the  Name  of  Him  that  shall  be  born  of 
her  shall  be  Jesus,  and  He  shall  save  His  people  from 
their  sins."  And  when  Joseph  woke  up  from  his  sleep, 
he  rejoiced  with  exceeding  great  joy,  and  he  praised 
and  gave  thanks  to  the  Lord  God  of  Israel.  And  after 
this  a  certain  chief  of  the  priests,  (Fol.  8ib,  col.  3) 
whose  name  was  John,  came  to  Joseph,  and  embraced 
him,  and  said  unto  him,  "  O  Joseph,  why  dost  thou 
delay  in  coming  to  us  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  ?  " 
And  he  answered  and  said  unto  him,  "  Because  I  was 
away  on  a  journey.  Yesterday  I  came  [back],  and  I  was 
tired  with  travelling  on  the  road,  and  therefore  I  wished 
to  rea-t  in  my  house  for  a  couple  of  days."   And  whilst 

133 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Joseph  was  speaking  thus,  John  turned  to  Mary,  and 
saw  that  she  was  with  child.  And  he  went  to  Zacharias 
and  said  unto  him,  "  Behold,  this  Joseph,  concerning 
whom  thou  hast  said  that  he  is  a  good  and  trustworthy- 
man,  behold,  I  say,  he  hath  committed  a  great  sin." 
And  Zacharias  the  priest  said  unto  him,  "  What  hath 
he  done  ?  "  And  John  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
"  Behold,  he  hath  committed  fornication  with  Mary 
whom  he  took  from  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  of  God 
— now  thou  didst  make  him  guardian  over  her — and 
hath  made  her  to  be  with  child."  And  Zacharias  the 
priest  said  unto  him,  "  Hath  Joseph  done  this  thing  ?  " 
And  John  said  unto  him,  (Fol.  82a,  col.  i)  "  Send  to 
her,  and  let  her  come  to  thee  that  thou  mayest  see  her 
and  believe." 

XVII.  Then  Zacharias  the  priest  sent  a  message  to 
the  virgin,  and  she  came  to  him  and  he  saw  her,  and 
that  she  was  with  child.  And  Zacharias  the  priest  an- 
swered and  said  unto  Mary,  "  What  is  this  thing  that 
thou  hast  done  ?  Thou  hast  saddened  thyself  among 
the  children  of  Israel.  Didst  thou  forget  the  Lord  thy 
God  [and]  how  He  sent  thee  thy  food  by  an  angel 
every  day  ?  Art  not  thou  she  who  dwelt  in  the  Holy 
of  Holies,  hearing  the  sound  of  the  hymns  and  praises 
and  singing  by  day  and  by  night  ?  "  And  then  Zacha- 
rias sent  a  message  to  Joseph,  and  he  came  to  him,  and 
Zacharias  said  unto  Joseph,  "  What  is  this  that  thou 
hast  done  ?  Plast  thou  consummated  thy  marriage  and 
made  to  be  with  child  the  virgin  whom  thou  hast  taken 
from  the  house  of  the  sanctuary,  wdthout  waiting  for 
the  priest  to  lay  his  hand  upon  thy  head  (Fol.  82a, 
col.  2)  and  bless  thee  ?  "  And  Joseph  held  his  peace 
and  had  nothing  to  say.  And  the  priest  spake  again  to 
Joseph,  saying,  "  Bring  back  to  us  this  maiden  as  thou 
didst  take  her  "  ;  and  he  wept  with  a  great  weeping. 
And  Zacharias  said  unto  him,  "  Know,  O  Joseph,  be- 
hold, I  will  make  thee  to  drink  the  water  of  correction 

134 


Her  Co?iception  and  Birth 

whereby  every  one  who  hath  committed  fornication  is 
to  be  tested.  And  when  thou  hast  drunk  thy  doings 
shall  be  revealed  before  all  men."  And  then  Zacharias 
the  priest  took  him  by  his  hand  and  made  him  drink  the 
water  of  correction. 

XVIII.  And  Zacharias  called  Mary  also,  and  made 
her  drink  of  that  water,  and  all  the  people  gathered  to- 
gether that  they  might  see  what  would  happen  to  them. 
And  when  Zacharias  the  priest  and  all  the  people  saw 
that  nothing  harmful  or  injurious  came  upon  them, 
they  all  marvelled  and  said,  "  Verily  they  are  inno- 
cent "  ;  and  the  priest  sent  them  away,  and  they  came 
[to  their  house]  in  peace.  And  after  this  Herod  the 
king  commanded  [his  officers]  to  make  to  come  to  him 
in  Bethlehem  every  one  who  lived  (Fol.  82a,  col.  3)  in 
the  borders  thereof.  And  when  Joseph  heard  this  word, 
he  said  within  himself,  "  What  shall  I  do  in  respect  of 
this  woman  ?  Shall  I  write  down  her  name  as  if  she 
were  my  wife  ?  Certainly  she  is  not  my  sister,  and  all 
the  children  of  Israel  know  that  she  is  neither  my  wdfe 
nor  my  sister."  And  then  he  meditated  and  said, "  This 
is  the  day  which  God  hath  made,  let  Him  do  whatso- 
ever it  pleaseth  Him  therein."  Then  he  rose  up  and 
brought  an  ass,  and  he  set  Mary  upon  it,  and  they  went 
to  Bethlehem.  And  there  followed  him  on  the  road  a 
priest  whose  name  was  Samuel,  and  he  went  with  them. 
And  when  they  had  come  a  distance  of  about  three 
stadia,  Joseph  turned  and  looked  at  Mary  and  saw  that 
she  was  smiling  and  laughing,  and  she  said  unto  him, 
"  Behold,  birth-pangs  have  seized  upon  me,  for  I  have 
drawn  nigh  to  my  time  of  bringing  forth."  And  Joseph 
said  unto  her,  "  Where  shall  I  put  thee  in  this  place  ?  " 
And  then  Joseph  lifted  up  his  eyes  and  saw  a  cave,  and 
he  brought  Mary  into  that  cave,  (Fol.  82b,  col.  i)  and 
went  forth  to  seek  for  a  midwife  for  her.  And  as  he 
was  going  along  the  road,  behold,  he  saw  the  earth 
trembling.   And  again,  he  saw  oxen  feeding,  and  they 

135 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

lifted  up  their  eyes  to  heaven.  And  again,  he  saw  a 
great  river  (or,  valley)  wherein  were  many  sheep,  and 
they  wished  to  drink,  but  only  lifted  up  their  eyes  to 
heaven.  And  then  Joseph  [lifted  up]  his  eyes  towards 
the  mountains  of  Bethlehem,  and  he  saw  a  woman 
coming,  and  he  came  to  her  and  saluted  her.  And  that 
woman  said  unto  him,  "  Whither  goest  thou,  and  what 
dost  thou  want  ?  "  And  Joseph  said  unto  her,  "  I  want 
a  midwife."  And  that  woman  said  unto  him,  "  Who  is 
this  woman  who  is  about  to  bring  forth  in  the  cave  ?  " 
And  Joseph  said  unto  her,  "  It  is  Mary,  who  is  with 
child  by  the  Holy  Spirit."  And  that  woman  said, "  Dost 
thou  believe  what  thou  sayest  ?  "  And  Joseph  said, 
(Fol.  82b,  col.  2)  "  Come  to  her  "  ;  and  the  two  of 
them  went  together  into  the  cave.  And  they  saw  a 
cloud  of  light  which  crowned  Mary,  and  also  there 
went  forth  from  the  inside  of  the  cave  a  great  light,  and 
it  shone  in  all  that  land  ;  and  they  saw  a  child  lying  in  a 
manger.  And  at  that  moment  the  woman  cried  out 
with  a  loud  voice  and  said,  "  My  soul  doth  magnify  the 
Lord  this  day,  because  I  have  seen  a  new  light  and  great 
glory.  That  Child  Who  hath  been  born  this  day  is  the 
God  of  Israel,  and  He  shall  deliver  His  people  from 
their  sins."  And  the  woman  went  out  from  the  cave, 
and  she  met  another  woman  whom  God  had  sent  unto 
Mary,  that  is  to  say  Sulame  (Salome).  And  the  woman 
said  unto  Salome,  "  Come  and  see  a  thing  hard  [to  un- 
derstand], the  like  of  which  hath  never  been  since  the 
world  was  created,  and  will  (Fol.  82b,  col.  3)  never 
again  [be  seen],  for  Mary,  a  virgin,  hath  given  birth  to 
a  child,  and  having  brought  forth  continueth  in  her 
virginity."  And  Salome  answered  and  said  unto  her, 
"  As  the  Lord  liveth,  I  will  not  believe  this  word  until 
I  see  with  mine  own  eyes."  And  then  they  two  went  to- 
gether and  came  into  the  cave.  And  Salome  drew  nigh 
to  our  Lady  Mary  and  stretched  out  her  hands  to 
examine  her,  and  lire  went  forth  from  the  body  of  our 

136 


Her  Conceptio7i  ai^d  Bii^th 

Lady  Mary,  and  consumed  the  two  hands  of  Salome. 
Then  did  she  shriek  with  a  loud  cry,  saying,  "  Woe  is 
me  !  My  hands  are  burned  up  because  of  my  exceed- 
ingly great  sin  and  my  little  belief."  And  she  bowed 
down  to  the  ground  and  said,  "  O  Thou  Lord  God  of 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  make  me  not  a  laughing- 
stock and  a  derision  among  the  children  of  Israel,  but 
look  upon  my  low  estate  and  heal  my  hands,  for  every 
one  (Fol.  83a,  col.  i)  who  calleth  upon  Thy  Name  shall 
rejoice  and  be  healed."  Then  forthwith  an  angel  came 
to  Salome  and  said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  God  hath  heard 
thy  prayer,  and  thy  petition  hath  been  received  ;  take 
the  Child  and  show  Him  thy  hands  which  have  been 
burned  with  fire."  And  she  did  so,  and  she  was  healed 
straightway,  and  she  said,  "  Verily  this  is  the  King  of 
Israel  "  ;  and  she  went  forth  from  that  cave  with  great 
joy.  And  there  came  unto  her  a  voice  from  heaven,  say- 
ing, "  O  Salome,  take  heed  that  thou  tellest  no  one  of 
the  miracle  which  thou  hast  seen  until  the  Child  shall 
enter  Jerusalem."  And  there  came  Wise  Men  from  the 
Country  of  the  East  unto  Jerusalem.  And  their  names 
were  these  :  Tanisuram,  and  Maliko,  and  Zesesba,  and 
they  said,  "  Where  is  He  Who  is  born  the  King  of  the 
Jews  ?  For  we  have  seen  His  star  in  the  East,  and  we 
have  come  to  worship  Him."  And  when  Herod  heard 
this  he  was  disturbed  and  all  Jerusalem  with  him.  And 
(Fol.  83a,  col.  2)  Herod  the  king  gathered  together  all 
the  chief  priests  and  scribes  of  the  people,  and  he  asked 
them,  saying,  "  Where  is  Christ  born  ?  "  And  they 
said  unto  him,  "  In  Bethlehem  of  Judah.  For  thus  is  it 
written  by  the  prophet  :  '  Bethlehem  of  the  land  of 
Judah,  thou  shalt  in  no  way  lag  behind  the  kings  of 
Judah,  for  from  thee  shall  go  forth  a  King  Who  shall 
rule  My  people  Israel.'  " 

XVIII.  Then  Herod  called  the  Wise  Men  by  them- 
selves (i.e.  privately),  and  enquired  of  them  the  day 
whereon  the  star  appeared  to  them,  and  he  sent  them 

137 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

to  Bethlehem,  saying  unto  them,  "  Go  ye  and  enquire 
for  that  Child  carefully,  and  wheresoever  ye  shall  find 
Him,  tell  me,  that  I  myself  may  come  and  worship 
Him."   And  having  been  commanded  by  the  king  they 
departed,  and  that  star  that  had  appeared  unto  them 
in  the  East  guided  them  until  it  brought  them  and 
stood  above  the  Child.   And  when  they  saw  (Fol.  83a, 
col.  3)  that  star,  they  rejoiced  with  exceeding  great  joy, 
and  when  they  came  into  the  house  they  found  the 
Child  and  Mary,  and  they  did  homage  to  Him,  and 
saluted   Him,   and  they  opened   their   treasure-bags. 
First  of  all  they  presented  unto  Him  gold,  because  He 
was  a  King  ;    secondly,  they  brought  to  Him  incense 
because  He  was  God  ;    and  thirdly,  they  brought  to 
Him  myrrh  because  of  the  human  nature  of  His  Body. 
And  He  accepted  [them]  from  them.   And  the  Angel 
of  the  Lord  stood  by  them,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
rose  upon  them  like  the  sun,  and  they  feared  with  a 
great  fear.   And  the  Angel  said  unto  them,  "  Fear  ye 
not,  for  behold,  I  announce  to  you  great  tidings  of  the 
joy  which  shall  be  unto  all  people.    For  there  is  born 
unto  you  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Saviour  Who 
is  Christ  the  Lord.   And  the  sign  of  Him  is  thus  :   Ye 
shall  find  the  Child  swathed  in  His  birth  clothes  and 
lying  in  a  manger."  And  in  a  moment  there  came  with 
that  angel  multitudes  (Fol.  83b,  col.  i)  of  the  hosts  of 
heaven  praising  God,  and  saying,  "  Glory  to  God  in  the 
heavens,  and  peace  on  earth  to  the  children  of  men  [of] 
His  good  will."    And  the  Wise  Men  went  forth  from 
where  the  Child  was,  wishing  to  go  to  Herod  ;  and  they 
slept  on  the  road.  And  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  appeared 
unto  them  in  a  dream,  and  said  unto  them,  "  Go  ye  not 
into  Jerusalem,  but  depart  to  your  own  country,  and 
return  by  another  road  "  ;   and  when  the  day  dawned 
they  returned  to  their  own  country,  as  the  Angel  had 
told  them.   And  they  went  into  the  presence  of  their 
king,  who  asked  them,  saying,  "  What  did  ye  see  ?  " 

138 


PLATE  XXIV 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  2,fol.  52&. 


An  angel  deliverina:   the  Abbess  of  Mount  Carmel  of   a   child   under   the 


direction  of  the  Virgin 


Her  Conception  and  Birth 

And  they  told  him  everything  that  they  had  seen,  and 
how  [the  Child]  had  accepted  gifts  from  them.  And 
again  he  asked  them  and  said  unto  them,  "  What  did 
He  give  you  ?  "  And  they  said,  "  He  gave  us  a  little 
blessing  of  bread,  and  we  hid  it  in  the  earth."  And  the 
king  said  unto  them,  "  Go  ye  and  bring  [it]  to  me." 
(Fol.  83b,  col.  2)  And  having  gone  forth  they  went  into 
that  country  where  they  had  hidden  [it],  and  they  dug 
in  that  land,  and  fire  came  forth  from  that  hole.  And 
for  this  reason  the  Wise  Men  worship  fire  unto  this  day. 
And  when  Herod  saw  the  Wise  Men  had  made  a 
laughing-stock  of  him,  he  was  exceedingly  wroth,  and 
he  sent  and  killed  all  the  children,  all  the  children  of 
Bethlehem  and  all  the  region  round  about,  of  two  years 
old  and  less.  And  when  Elisabeth,  the  wife  of  Zacha- 
rias  the  priest,  heard  that  they  were  seeking  for  her  son 
John  to  kill  him,  she  took  her  child  and  carried  him  into 
the  mountain.  And  she  began  to  turn  about,  to  her 
right  hand  and  to  her  left,  and  she  said,  "  Where  can  I 
set  down  my  child,  and  what  shall  I  do  with  him  ?  " 
And  then  she  cried  out  with  a  loud  voice  and  said,  "  O 
mountain  of  God,  protect  my  child."  And  straight- 
way that  rock  split  asunder,  and  Elisabeth  and  (Fol. 
83b,  col.  3)  her  child  went  in,  and  the  rock  was  sealed 
up  over  them.  And  God  sent  a  great  light  into  that 
cavern,  and  an  angel  brought  their  food  unto  them 
every  day.  And  then  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  appeared 
unto  Joseph  in  a  dream,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Rise  up, 
[take]  the  Child  and  His  mother,  and  flee  to  the  land 
of  Egypt,  and  dwell  there  until  I  tell  thee  [to  leave  it], 
for  Herod  is  seeking  for  the  Child  that  he  may  kill 
Him."  And  he  rose  up  and  took  the  Child  and  His 
mother,  and  went  forth  by  night  and  departed  to 
Egypt.  And  he  dwelt  there  until  Herod  died,  so  that 
there  might  be  fulfilled  the  word  of  God  by  the 
prophet  who  said,  "  Out  of  Egypt  have  I  called  My 
Son." 

139 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

XIX.  Now  when  Herod  the  king  went  up  to  Beth- 
lehem to  seek  for  the  Child  Who  had  been  born,  he 
sought  for  but  did  not  find  John,  the  son  of  Zacharias 
the  priest,  and  then,  when  he  found  him  not,  he  sent  a 
message  to  his  father  Zacharias  the  priest,  (Fol.  84a, 
col.  i)  saying,  "  The  king  commandeth  thee  to  bring 
thy  son  to  him."  And  Zacharias  answered  and  said  unto 
the  soldiers  of  the  king  who  had  come  unto  him,  "  I 
know  not  where  my  son  is,  for  I  am  ministering  in  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary  of  God  by  day  and  by  night." 
And  the  soldiers  of  the  king  went  and  told  the  king 
what  Zacharias  the  priest  had  said  unto  them.  Then 
Herod  sent  them  to  Zacharias  a  second  time,  saying, 
"  Make  me  to  know  where  thy  son  is.  If  thou  refusest 
us  then  know  that  thy  blood  is  in  my  hand."  And  the 
soldiers  went  to  Zacharias  the  priest,  and  told  him  what 
the  king  had  said  unto  them  ;  and  Zacharias  the  priest 
answered  and  told  them  what  he  had  told  them  at  first, 
and  he  took  an  oath  that  he  did  not  know  where  his  son 
was.  And  then  Herod  sent  to  him  a  third  time,  saying, 
"  If  thou  dost  not  bring  thy  son  [to  me],  then  know  and 
be  very  sure  that  I  will  come  to  thee  and  (Fol.  84a, 
col.  2)  will  slay  thee."  And  when  Zacharias  the  priest 
heard  this,  he  said,  "  As  God  liveth,  though  ye  shed  my 
blood,  I  do  not  know  where  my  son  is  "  ;  and  the  sol- 
diers departed  and  told  the  king  everything  that  Zacha- 
rias the  priest  had  said  unto  them.  And  then  Herod  the 
king  rose  up  by  night,  and  went  into  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary  of  God,  to  the  place  where  Zacharias  the 
priest  was,  and  he  slew  him  there,  and  none  of  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  knew  anything  about  it  whatsoever.  And 
it  came  to  pass  that  when  the  morning  had  come,  the 
children  of  Israel  went  into  the  house  of  the  sanctuary, 
according  to  their  law  and  ordinance,  and  they  found 
the  door  of  the  house  of  the  sanctuary  shut.  And  they 
stood  outside  the  door,  and  waited  for  Zacharias  the 
priest  to  open  the  door  to  them  as  he  opened  it  every 

140 


Her  Co?iception  a7id  Birth 

day,  and  there  was  none  who  went  out  from  them,  and 
no  one  opened  unto  them.  And  when  they  had  stood 
there  waiting  [a  long  time]  a  certain  man  of  their  num- 
ber went  up  in  the  roof  which  covered  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary,  [and]  (FoL  84a,  coh  3)  he  heard  a  voice,  say- 
ing, "  Verily,  of  a  certainty,  Herod  hath  slain  Zacharias 
the  priest  "  ;  and  the  voice  ceased.  And  when  the  man 
heard  this  word,  he  opened  the  door  of  the  house  of  the 
sanctuary,  and  told  them  everything  which  he  had 
heard  from  that  voice.  And  all  the  children  of  Israel 
went  in  to  see,  and  they  did  not  find  the  body  of  Zacha- 
rias the  priest,  but  they  found  dried  blood.  And  be- 
cause of  this  they  sorrowed  with  a  great  sorrow,  and 
they  wept  and  made  lamentation  for  him  for  three 
days  and  three  nights. 

XX.  And  then  the  priests  took  counsel  among  them- 
selves and  decided  to  appoint  another  priest  in  his  place, 
and  they  cast  lots  among  themselves,  and  the  lot  went 
forth  on  Simeon  the  priest,  for  long  ago  the  Holy  Spirit 
had  told  Simeon  the  priest  that  he  should  not  be 
separated  from  this  world  until  he  saw  the  Christ  of 
God,  the  Redeemer  of  all  the  world.  Now  after  a  few 
days  Herod  the  king  died.  (Fol.  84b,  col.  i)  And  after 
the  death  of  Herod,  behold,  the  Angel  of  God  appeared 
unto  Joseph  in  a  dream  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  he 
said  unto  him,  "  Rise  up,  take  the  Child  and  His 
mother,  and  depart  into  the  land  of  Israel,  for  all  those 
who  sought  the  Child's  life  [are  dead]."  And  rising  up 
Joseph  took  the  Child  and  His  mother,  and  came  unto 
the  land  of  Israel,  and  hearing  that  Archelaus,  the  son 
of  Herod,  was  king  in  his  father's  stead,  he  was  afraid 
to  go  there.  And  [the  Angel  of  God]  having  appeared 
unto  him  in  a  dream,  he  turned  aside  into  the  border 
of  Galilee,  and  having  arrived  he  dwelt  in  a  city  the 
name  of  which  was  Nazareth ;  so  that  that  which  was 
said  by  the  prophet,  "  My  Son  shall  be  called  a  Naza- 
rene,"  was  fulfilled.   And  Elisabeth  and  her  son  v/ent 

141 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

forth  from  that  rock.  And  John  Uved  in  the  desert  of 
the  Jordan  and  preached  the  way  of  repentance  ;  and 
he  prepared  the  way  before  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
(FoL  64b,  coL  2)  Christ,  to  Whom  be  glory,  and  honour, 
and  dominion,  now,  and  for  ever,  and  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen. 


142 


A  TRACT  WHICH  DESCRIBETH  HOW  THE 
HISTORY  OF  SAINT  MARY  WAS  DISCOVERED 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  fol.  50a.] 

(Fol.  50a,  col.  3)  "^  PEACE  "  FROM  GOD  WHO  SENT  HIS 
ONLY  SON,  AND  HE  DWELT  IN  THE  WOMB  OF  THE  HOLY 
VIRGIN.  AND  "  PEACE  "  FROM  THE  HOLY  SPIRIT,  THE 
PARACLETE,  TO  WHOM  BE  PRAISE.  AND  "  PEACE  "  FROM 
THE  LORD  OF  ALL  CREATION.  NONE  CAN  ESTIMATE  THE 
GLORY  OF  THE  GODHEAD  OF  HIM  WHO  CAME  DOWN  FROM 
HIS  THRONE  AND  DWELT  IN  THE  WOMB  OF  A  VIRGIN.  MAY 
HIS  BLESSING  BE  WITH  OUR  KING  FOR  EVER  AND  EVER. 
AMEN. 

I.  /^~\  LORD,  open  Thou  the  gates  of  peace  unto 
V^  my  prayer  at  this  hour.  And  let  the  sweet 
odour  of  incense  ascend  from  our  assembly  into  heaven; 
and  let  the  horns  of  our  Archangel  be  blown  in  heaven, 
and  let  the  hosts  stand  up  in  their  companies  ;  and  let 
there  be  great  glory  in  the  heavens  before  Christ,  and 
let  all  the  angels  of  God  (Fol.  50b,  col.  i)  praise  Him 
with  their  voices,  and  let  them  stand,  army  before 
army,  company  before  company,  and  the  blessed  before 
the  blessed,  and  let  them  all  together  ascribe  praise  and 
offer  incense  and  sweet  perfumes  before  God.  Praise 
and  worship  be  to  }esus  Christ,  and  joy  and  gladness  to 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

I  will  tell  you,  O  my  brethren,  the  story  of  the  de- 
parture of  our  Lady  Mary  from  this  world,  so  that  ye 
may  glorify  Him  that  was  born  of  her  of  His  own  free 
will.  Pray  ye  unto  Him  for  mercy  and  compassion  for 
ever  and  ever  ;  [and  for]  righteousness  for  the  priests 
who  stand  before  Christ,  W^ho  hath  chosen  them  for 

143 


The  History  of  the  Virg'm  Mary 

the  majesty  of  His  honour  and  glory,  and  who  seek  from 
Him  blessing  and  fair  gladness  ;  [and  for]  the  children 
of  the  Church  who  stand  up  and  praise  His  Name.  Let 
the  rich  sing  psalms,  and  let  the  poor  give  thanks,  and 
let  the  old  men,  and  the  women,  the  daughters  (Fol. 
50b,  col.  2)  of  Eve,  cry  out.  God  accepteth  the  prayers 
of  those  who  make  supplication  unto  thee,  [O  Saint 
Mary].  For  Thou  hast  chosen  from  among  them  this 
woman  in  whom  Thou  wast  well  pleased  before  the 
world  [was],  and  Christ  the  God  of  praise  was  born  of 
her  of  His  own  free  will. 

And  at  that  time  the  celestial  beings  bearing  incense 
and  sweet  perfumes,  and  the  martyrs  with  their  crowns, 
came,  and  the  beings  of  earth  stood  looking  at  the 
beings  of  heaven,  and  the  praises  of  the  heavenly  beings 
mingled  with  the  praises  of  the  earthly  beings,  and  they 
spake  thus  :  Blessed  be  God  Who  sent  His  Son  and  He 
dwelt  in  the  womb  of  a  virgin.  And  blessed  be  Christ 
Who,  on  the  day  of  her  death  when  she  wished  to  go 
forth  from  this  world,  magnified  the  woman  who  gave 
Him  birth,  and  to  Him  be  glory  and  thanksgiving  for 
ever.  And  may  joy  and  gladness  come  from  Him  upon 
the  Christian  people  for  ever  and  ever. 

H.  Blessed  be  God  Who  came  down  and  abased 
Himself  of  His  own  free  will  (Fol.  50b,  col.  3).  He  de- 
scended from  the  Father  to  Mary,  and  He  went  forth 
from  Mary  in  a  manger,  and  from  the  manger  He  jour- 
neyed about  on  the  earth.  And  after  this  He  ascended 
the  Cross  for  our  salvation,  He  died,  and  was  buried, 
and  rose  again  on  the  third  day,  and  ascended  into 
heaven,  and  sat  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father.  And 
at  this  point  we  cry  out  and  say,  "  O  Thou  Christ, 
stretch  out  Thy  right  hand  from  above,  Thy  dwelling- 
place,  at  this  hour  over  those  who  are  praising  Thee 
and  are  glorifying  Thy  holy  mother  Mary  on  her  going 
forth  from  this  world  for  ever  and  ever." 

HI.  Hear,  O  all  ye  brethren,  every  one  who  wisheth 

144 


Discovery  of  Manuscripts 

to  be  saved  from  sin  when  God  shall  come  and  judge 
the  world,  hearken  ye  with  your  ears,  and  be  vigilant  in 
your  minds,  and  hearken  unto  the  story  of  Saint  Mary, 
the  Mother  of  God,  and  of  how  she  went  forth  from 
this  world.  Now,  behold,  there  were  gathered  together 
unto  her  all  the  denizens  of  heaven,  and  the  hosts  of  the 
(Fol.  51a,  col.  i)  armies  of  God.  And  the  Prophets 
came,  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  came,  and  the  Seventy- 
two  noble  disciples  came,  and  the  blessed  Martyrs.  The 
righteous  came,  and  the  believers  came,  and  Enoch, 
and  Moses,  and  Elias,  and  all  the  hosts  of  the  angels, 
and  the  company  of  the  Fathers,  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob,  and  David.  And  there  came  also  all  people,  both 
living  and  dead,  to  salute  Mary,  the  Mother  of  the 
Lord.  Whosoever  wisheth  to  receive  remission  of  sins 
from  God  must  believe  in  the  Holy  Trinity,  that  there 
is  One  God,  glorious,  inseparable,  to  Whom  be  honour 
and  thanksgiving  for  ever  and  ever.  Whom  the  denizens 
of  the  heavens  and  the  peoples  of  the  earth  worship,  for 
it  is  He  Who  killeth  and  maketh  alive  ;  that  He  was 
born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  whom  man  had  never  known, 
Whose  flesh  had  never  mingled  in  carnal  union  ;  but 
that  He  dwelt  in  her  of  (Fol.  51a,  col.  2)  His  own  free 
will  and  was  born  of  her, — Joy  ! — Who  chose  her  for 
Himself  before  the  world.  He  sent  His  Son,  and  He 
was  born  of  her  of  His  own  free  will  without  carnal 
union,  even  as  Isaiah,  the  blessed  among  the  Prophets, 
prophesied,  saying,  "  He  shall  spring  up  like  a  branch 
in  a  thirsty  land."  And  again  he  saith,  "  Behold  a  vir- 
gin, and  she  shall  conceive  and  bring  forth  a  child,  and 
one  shall  call  his  name  'Emanu'el,  which  is,  being  inter- 
preted, God  with  us."  And  Mary  was  chosen  and  pure 
from  the  womb  of  her  mother,  and  she  was  brought 
forth  in  holiness,  and  she  gave  herself  [in]  marriage  in 
the  House  of  God.  And  she  knew  that  Christ  would 
come  and  dwell  upon  her.  And  when  the  time  arrived 
for  the  going  forth  of  Adam  from  Sheol,  and  for  his 

L  145 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

salvation,  the  grace  of  God  abounded  in  respect  of  the 
sheep  that  had  gone  astray  from  the  Shepherd.  Now 
he  was  the  first  transgressor  of  God's  commandment, 
and  his  children  were  with  him,  and  at  length  Satan 
became  envious  of  him  and  took  him  captive.  And  be- 
cause of  this  God  sent  (Fol.  51a,  col.  3)  His  beloved  Son 
to  dwell  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin,  and  to  be  born  of 
her.  A  thing  of  joy  it  is  that  He  chose  to  make  the 
world  that  believed  on  Him  to  live. 

IV.  Behold  now,  it  is  meet  that  we  should  celebrate 
the  commemoration,  and  offer  up  our  sacrifice  and 
offering  to  this  woman,  who  is  blessed  among  women, 
of  whom  was  born  the  Saviour  of  the  world.  This  was 
the  blessed  field  whereon  joy  dwelt  through  His  birth 
from  her.  And  moreover,  by  His  birth  He  tore  out  the 
thorns  by  their  roots,  and  burned  up  the  tares,  and  put 
to  flight  the  foul  spirits,  and  annulled  death,  and  de- 
stroyed Satan,  and  made  joy  and  peace  for  all  the  world. 

0  my  believing  and  Christ-loving  fathers  and  brethren, 

1  will  tell  you  concerning  this  manuscript  which  was 
written  about  the  holy  and  blessed  woman  Mary,  and 
how  her  history  was  revealed  in  this  world.  Behold 
now,  there  were  in  Mount  Sinai  three  men  who  minis- 
tered (Fol.  51b,  col.  i)  in  the  place  where  God  appeared 
unto  Moses  in  a  bramble  bush,  and  their  names  were 
these  :  i,  David  the  priest  ;  2,  John  the  priest  ;  3, 
Elias  the  deacon.  These  were  the  men  who  ministered 
diligently  before  the  Tabernacle  which  rested  on  the 
place  of  the  bramble  bush,  where  God  appeared  unto 
Moses  on  Mount  Sinai ;  now  these  three  holy  men 
were  the  governors  of  three  hundred  and  twenty  mon- 
asteries, for  all  Mount  Sinai  was  crowned  in  every  part 
with  the  praising  of  God.  And  behold,  these  three 
blessed  men  wrote  an  epistle  from  Mount  Sinai  and 
sent  it  to  the  House  of  the  Sanctuary,  saying,  ''  May 
this  come  to  Kareya,  Bishop  of  Jerusalem,  with  much 
salutation  and  praise  for  his  excellence  and  his  purity. 

146 


Discovery  of  Manusc?^ipts 

And  it  is  to  ask  him  to  search  out  for  them  how  the 
death  of  Mary  took  place,  (Fol.  51b,  col.  2)  and  con- 
cerning her  departure  from  this  world.  For  behold,  we 
wish  to  know  how  Saint  Mary  was  glorified  and 
crowned.  Inform  thyself  about  her  history,  and  send 
us  [information]  concerning  it.  Behold,  we  have  heard 
that  there  was  a  book  of  her  history  in  the  possession 
of  John  the  Less,  whom  his  Lord  loved  more  than  any 
other  of  His  disciples  ;  as  he  loved  Christ  even  so  did 
Mary  love  him."  Now  John  was  not  dead,  but  was 
[alive]  on  the  earth,  and  was  bestowing  mercy  with  his 
hand  in  the  Church  of  Ephesus  in  such  wise  that  the 
people  were  healed  of  their  sicknesses. 

V.  I  will  tell  you,  O  my  brethren  :  In  the  three  hun- 
dred and  nineteenth  year,  in  the  month  Takhshash,  in 
which  Christ  was  born,  heavenly  and  earthly  beings  re- 
joiced, because  on  that  day  our  Lady  Mary  appeared 
unto  John  in  Ephesus,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Take  (Fol. 
51b,  col.  3)  the  book  that  is  v/ith  thee,  wherein  is 
written  the  story  of  my  departure  from  the  world,  and 
give  it  unto  these  men  who  have  come  unto  thee  from 
Mount  Sinai.  For  behold,  the  time  hath  arrived  for 
the  coming  of  thy  Lord  from  heaven  that  He  may  be 
revealed  [in]  the  sacrifices  of  the  Offering  unto  those 
who  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  me.  Behold,  I 
have  told  thee."  And  when  the  book  which  was  sent  to 
these  three  men  arrived  in  the  House  of  the  Sanctuary, 
and  was  to  be  read  before  the  people,  they  sought  for 
that  book  at  that  time  and  did  not  find  it.  But  they 
found  another  book  wherein  it  was  stated  that  Jacob 
(i.e.  James),  who  was  appointed  the  first  bishop  in  the 
House  of  the  Sanctuary  (i.e.  Jerusalem),  had  himself 
written  the  History  of  Saint  Mary  in  the  month  of 
Khaziran,  in  the  three  hundred  and  forty-fifth  year. 

VI.  And  on  the  third  day,  at  the  time  of  noon,  cer- 
tain men  who  were  from  Judaea  came  to  James  the 
Bishop,  and  beat  him  sorely  and  killed  him,  for  (Fol. 

147 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

^22i,  col.  i)  they  hated  him  exceedingly  because  he  said, 
"  I  am  the  brother  of  our  Lord."  And  afterwards  they 
searched  through  that  book  and  they  found  that  there 
was  written  therein  by  the  hand  of  James  thus  :  In  the 
three  hundred  and  forty-fifth  year,  on  the  very  day 
whereon  Christ  had  been  born,  Mary  departed  from 
this  world,  on  the  twenty-ninth  day  of  the  month  Takh- 
shash.  And  I  myself  believe  that  the  Apostles,  and  all 
created  things,  and  the  angels  of  heaven  came  all  to- 
gether to  pay  honour  to  Saint  Mary  and  to  magnify 
her,  before  she  died.  And  there  were  written  down 
concerning  her  all  the  signs  and  all  the  wonders,  and 
the  power  which  was  with  her  from  the  beings  of  earth 
and  the  beings  of  heaven,  [who]  said,  "  Glory  be  unto 
God  Who  hath  magnified  His  Mother."  And  the 
Cherubim  and  the  Seraphim  bowed  down  before  Him, 
crying  out  to  the  sound  of  the  trumpet  and  saying, 
"  Holy,  Holy,  Holy  [is]  the  (Fol.  52a,  col.  2)  God  Who 
hath  been  pleased  to  go  round  about  on  the  earth."  I 
James  have  written  this  statement  with  my  own  hand, 
that  the  History  of  Saint  Mary  existed  with  John,  the 
son  of  Zebedee,  the  beloved  of  Christ.  And  they  all 
became  witnesses,  and  wrote  with  their  own  hands 
concerning  the  blessed  woman  Mary,  that  they  would 
celebrate  her  commemoration  three  times  every  year, 
even  as  commanded  Peter,  and  Paul,  and  John  the  Less, 
whose  Lord  loved  him. 

And  then  the  men  of  the  House  of  the  Sanctuary 
(i.e.  Jerusalem)  wrote  to  Mount  Sinai,  saying,  "  Behold, 
the  History  of  the  pure  woman  Mary  is  not  found  with 
us,  but  we  have  found  a  copy  of  the  testimony  of  James 
[saying]  that  the  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary  was  writ- 
ten down  and  that  it  is  with  John,  the  son  of  Zebedee. 
Behold,  then,  we  tell  you,  O  ye  holy  fathers  who  dwell 
at  Mount  Sinai,  that  ye  must  send  a  letter  to  Ephesus, 
to  John,  the  son  of  Zebedee,  (Fol.  52a,  col.  3)  and 
demand  from  him  a  copy  of  the  History  of  Mary. 

148 


PLATE  XXV 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  3,/o/.  40. 


Katir,  who  is  too  old  and  feeble  to  do  her  service,  praying  to  the 
Virgin,  who  restores  his  strength 


Discovery  of  Mcmuscripts 

And  if  it  be  that  ye  obtain  it,  send  to  us  yovir  copy  of 
the  History  of  Mary,  so  that  we  may  put  to  shame  the 
Jews  who  crucified  Christ."  And  when  the  letter  from 
Jerusalem  reached  the  men  of  Mount  Sinai,  and  they 
had  read  that  letter  and  had  understood  what  was 
[written]  therein,  straightway  they  sent  letters  of 
enquiry  to  the  country  of  Rome,  and  to  Alexandria 
and  the  borders  of  Egypt,  asking  for  the  History  of 
Mary,  but  nowhere  in  any  of  these  countries  did  they 
find  it. 

Vn.  And  then  they  sent  messengers  to  Ephesus,  and 
after  a  delay  of  very  many  days  they  arrived  during  the 
night-time  in  the  city  of  Ephesus,  and  they  found  the 
church  with  its  doors  closed.  And  they  stood  up,  and 
prayed,  and  cast  incense  into  the  censers,  and  said,  "  O 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Who  didst  love  and  choose  (Fol.  52b, 
col.  i)  John  from  among  all  the  disciples,  make  us  to  see 
John  speedily,  and  let  him  tell  us  concerning  the  book 
wherein  are  written  down  the  glorious  things  and 
miracles  that  Thou  didst  perform  for  Thy  Mother 
when  she  was  going  forth  from  this  world."  And  be- 
fore he  finished  his  prayer,  behold,  John  came  unto 
them.  And  he  spake  unto  them  and  said,  "  Be  ye  not 
sad,  O  my  blessed  brethren,  for  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
shall  reward  you  with  a  good  reward  in  return  for  your 
toil  and  weariness  in  travelling  on  [this]  journey  through 
countries.  Rise  up  then,  and  take  the  Book  of  the  His- 
tory of  the  Mother  of  my  Lord,  and  bring  ye  [it]  to 
Mount  Sinai,  and  give  it  unto  our  brethren,  and  say 
unto  them,  Behold,  John  hath  sent  this  book  unto  you 
so  that  ye  may  perform  the  offering  up  of  the  Offering 
to  the  Mother  of  God  three  times  each  year.  And  tell 
them  that  I  am  alive  up  to  this  present,  and  that  I  have 
not  tasted  death,  and  that  I  am  waiting  for  (Fol.  52b, 
col.  2)  the  coming  of  my  Lord  from  heaven.  For  He 
said  unto  me,  Thou  shalt  not  die  until  I  come  a  second 
time  to  judge  the  world."    And  having  said  this  he 

149 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

disappeared  from  us ;  and  when  we  saw  this  miracle  we 
were  afraid  with  a  great  fear. 

VIII.  And  then  the  keeper  of  the  doors  of  the  church 
came  to  us,  and  he  opened  the  doors  for  us,  and  we 
went  into  a  place  by  the  cleft  of  the  fountain  blessed 
by  John,  and  there  we  found  the  Book  of  the  History 
of  Saint  Mary.  And  then  we  took  that  book  and  gave 
it  to  a  certain  man,  a  priest,  who  opened  it  and  read  it 
before  the  people.  And  having  read  it  he  found  that 
there  were  written  in  it  the  testimonies  (martyrdoms  ?) 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Seventy-two  Disciples. 
And  there  was  written  in  Hebrew,  and  Latin  (Roma- 
yeset),  and  Greek  a  writing  which  said  thus  :  In  the 
Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Who  was  born  of  Mary 
the  Virgin,  and  is  the  God  of  heaven  (Fol.  52b,  col.  3) 
and  of  earth.  Whosoever  believeth  on  Him  shall  find 
life  for  ever  and  ever.  And  whosoever  believeth  on 
Mary,  the  Mother  of  Christ,  and  also  in  the  signs  and 
wonders  that  He  wrought  for  her  when  she  was  going 
forth  from  this  world,  shall  not  see  corruption.  Behold, 
the  Disciples  were  witnesses  that  in  the  Book  of  the 
History  of  Mary  were  written  down  all  the  miracles 
that  Christ  wrought  for  her.  And  the  Disciples  took 
that  Book,  and  James  gave  it  to  John,  the  son  of  Zebe- 
dee,  for  Christ  our  God  loved  him  more  than  the  other 
disciples.  And  when  that  book  was  read  in  Ephesus  be- 
fore the  people,  a  dew  with  the  most  beautiful  perfume 
came  down  from  heaven,  and  it  filled  the  whole  country 
of  Ephesus.  Now  there  was  no  other  man  who  could 
relate  everything  that  God  did  before  Mary  when  she 
departed  from  this  world.  No  ear  could  [bear]  the 
hearing  thereof,  and  no  eye  the  sight  (Fol.  53a,  col.  i) 
thereof,  by  reason  of  the  multitude  of  the  hosts  of 
heavenly  and  earthly  beings  who  accompanied  Mary 
into  the  Garden  (i.e.  Paradise). 

IX.  And  then  those  envoys  took  that  Book  of  the 
History  of  Mary,  and  they  departed  from  Ephesus,  and 

150 


PLATE  XXVI 


Lady  .Ifeux  MS.  Xo.  2,  fol.  296. 


The  Virgin   restoring   the   sight    of   John    of   Bakansi   by   anointing 
his  eyes  with  milk  from  her  breast 


Discovery  of  Manuscripts 

returned  to  Mount  Sinai,  and  all  the  people  welcomed 
those  envoys  with  joy  and  gladness,  and  they  gave 
thanks  unto  God  and  praised  Him  because  He  had  re- 
vealed to  them  the  History  of  the  Virgin.  And  then 
they  translated  that  book  and  sent  the  translation  to 
the  House  of  the  Sanctuary  (Jerusalem).  Behold  now, 
from  this  time  forward  let  us  pray  and  make  supplica- 
tion unto  God  because,  in  the  abundance  of  His  com- 
passion, and  mercy,  and  love.  He  sent  His  beloved  Son 
to  deliver  the  world  from  slavery.  And  let  us  supplicate 
Him,  through  the  prayer  of  our  Lady  Mary,  the 
Mother  of  God,  with  incense  and  with  the  Offering  for 
those  who  shall  come  and  shall  make  the  Offering  with 
gladness  on  (Fol.  53a,  col.  2)  the  commemoration  of  the 
blessed  woman.  Let  us  beseech  Him,  and  let  us  say, 
'*  O  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  remove  Thou  sorrow  from 
us  and  from  Thy  people,  and  send  Thou  Thy  compas- 
sion, and  mercy,  and  peace,  upon  the  earth,  for  Thine 
is  the  kingdom,  and  the  power,  and  the  glory,  for  ever 
and  ever." 


151 


THE    HISTORY    OF    THE    DEATH    OF    THE 
VIRGIN  MARY  AS  TOLD  BY  SAINT  JOHN 

The  'Astar'eyo,  which  is  to  be  read  on  the 
2ist  day  of  the  month  Ter. 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  foL  45a.] 

(FoL  45a,  CoL  l)  IN  THE  NAME  OF  THE  FATHER,  AND  OF 
THE  SON,  AND  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST,  ONE  GOD  CHRIST,  MY 
GOD  AND  MY  HOPE  !  AND  MAY  MY  LADY  MARY  PRAY  FOR 
ME.  THIS  IS  THE  HISTORY  OF  OUR  HOLY  AND  PURE  LADY 
MARY,  THE  MOTHER  OF  THE  LIGHT,  BY  THE  GRACE  OF  GOD 
MOTHER  OF  OUR  LORD  AND  REDEEMER  JESUS  CHRIST,  AND 
HOW  HER  DEPARTURE  TOOK  PLACE  FROM  THIS  FLEETING 
WORLD  TO  THE  EVERLASTING  LIFE,  WHICH  PASSETH  NOT 
AWAY  AND  IS  NEVER  DESTROYED.  AND  MAY  HER  PRAYER 
BE  WITH  OUR  KING  SO-AND-SO  FOR  EVER  AND  EVER.    AMEN. 

OUR  holy  father  John,  who  took  [her]  to  him  after 
the  Ascension  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ  into  heaven,  who  discoursed  on  theology,  [who] 
was  one  of  the  disciples  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ  who  preached  the  Gospel  in  all  the  world,  told 
us  that  our  holy  and  pure  Lady  never  ceased  to  go  to 
the  grave  (Fol.  45a,  col.  2)  of  our  Lord,  and  God,  and 
Saviour,  Jesus  Christ,  where  she  prayed  and  praised 
Christ.  And  then  she  went,  according  to  her  wont,  and 
came  here.  And  when  Christ  wished  to  remove  her 
from  this  fleeting  world,  she  stretched  out  her  hands  to 
her  Son  and  God,  and  asked  Him  to  take  her  soul  from 
her.  And  Satan  entered  into  some  of  the  Jews  who 
used  to  see  her  come  continually  to  the  grave,  and  make 
long  prayers  there,  and  because  of  this  they  went  to  the 
chief  priests  and  told  them  everything  which  the  holy 

152 


PLATE  XXVII 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  2,  fol.  5O6. 

A  variant  of  the  scene  on  the  preceding  plate 


Story  of  the  Virg'm  Mary's  Death 

woman,  the  Mother  of  our  Lord,  used  to  do,  and  there- 
upon the  chief  priests  set  watchmen  over  the  grave,  and 
they  ordered  them  to  prevent  those  who  wished  to  go 
into  the  tomb  to  pray  [from  doing  so].  And  then  the 
chief  priests  sent  to  the  watchmen,  and  enquired  of 
them  concerning  this  thing.  And  these  watchmen  lied 
(FoL  45a,  col.  3)  and  swore  that  no  one  whatsoever  had 
passed  [them]  and  entered  the  tomb.  Now  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  had  blinded  their  eyes  so  that  they  could 
not  see  the  holy  and  pure  woman  whilst  she  was  pray- 
ing, or  when  she  came  in  or  went  out. 

I.  And  in  the  three  hundred  and  fifty-second  year  of 
Alexander  (=a.d.  40),  that  is  to  say,  two  years  after 
the  Ascension  of  our  Lord  into  heaven,  on  the  28th 
[day  of  the  month  .  .  .],  on  the  fourth  day  of  the  week, 
in  the  morning,  the  holy  and  pure  Mary  took  fire  and 
incense,  and  set  out  for  the  tomb  in  order  to  pray,  ac- 
cording to  her  wont,  in  the  tomb  in  Golgotha.  Now 
she  was  in  fear  of  the  Jews.  And  having  arrived  she 
made  an  offering  of  incense  at  the  mouth  of  the  holy 
tomb,  and  according  to  her  wont  she  praised  and  gave 
thanks  unto  Christ,  saying,  "  O  my  Lord,  Good  Master, 
send  and  take  me  from  this  world  which  is  full  of  sorrow 
and  trouble."  And  as  she  was  praying  straightway  the 
heavens  opened,  and  Gabriel  (Fol.  45b,  col.  i)  the  Arch- 
angel came  down,  and  he  did  homage  to  her  and  gave 
her  his  message,  saying,  "  Rejoice,  O  full  of  grace,  be- 
hold, thy  prayer  hath  ascended  and  hath  reached  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  Who  was  born  of  thee.  And  behold, 
God  hath  heard  thy  prayer  and  thy  petition  wherein 
thou  hast  stated  thy  desire  to  go  forth  from  this  fleet- 
ing world  into  the  life  which  is  for  ever."  And  when 
she  had  heard  this  word  from  the  Angel  she  returned  to 
Bethlehem.  And  straightway  she  gathered  together  the 
women  and  holy  virgins  who  ministered  unto  her  con- 
tinually, and  she  said  unto  them,  *'  Behold,  since  the 
Jews  have  set  watchmen  over  the  tomb,  I  am  afraid  lest 

153 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

my  action  be  discovered  by  them,  and  lest  they  prevent 
me  from  coming  there  " — and  then  she  said  in  peace — 
"  Now  I  am  going  to  Bethlehem,  and  if  there  be  any 
among  you  who  wisheth  to  come  with  me  let  her  do 
so."  And  they  answered  and  said  unto  her  with  one 
voice,  "  We  will  all  go  with  thee  wheresoever  thou  go- 
est,  (Fol.  45b,  col.  2)  and  we  will  not  separate  ourselves 
from  thee  all  the  days  of  our  life."  And  straightway 
she  took  them,  and  departed  to  Bethlehem,  and  dwelt 
there. 

II.  And  on  the  eve  of  the  Sabbath  (Friday)  she  fell 
sick.  And  she  answered  and  said  unto  those  virgins  who 
lived  with  her  and  ministered  unto  her,  "  Bring  me  a 
censer  and  incense,  for  I  wish  to  pray " ;  and  they 
brought  a  censer  and  incense  unto  her,  even  as  she  had 
commanded  them.  And  she  put  incense  into  the 
censer,  and  she  prayed,  saying,  "  My  Lord  and  my  God, 
Jesus  Christ,  Who  didst  hold  thine  handmaiden  worthy 
of  Thine  Incarnation  from  her,  to  sanctify  men  and  to 
remove  the  sin  of  the  world,  hearken  unto  my  prayer, 
and  accept  my  petition  in  this  hour.  And  bring  unto 
me  John  Thy  disciple,  who  preached  Thy  holy  Gospel, 
so  that  I  may  rejoice  in  the  sight  of  him.  And  likewise' 
send  Thou  to  me  all  Thy  disciples — whereof  some  have 
fallen  asleep, — so  that  I  may  see  them  (Fol.  45b,  col.  3) 
and  be  blessed  by  them  before  I  go  out  from  this  world. 
Thou  art  the  God  of  the  living  and  of  the  dead,  and  I 
believe  that  Thou  wilt  hearken  unto  my  prayer  and 
will  grant  me  everything  that  I  ask  from  Thee."  And 
[Saint  John  said],  "  Behold,  before  her  prayer  was 
ended,  a  cloud  of  light  snatched  me  away  in  the  Holy 
Spirit  from  the  country  of  Ephesus,  and  set  me  before 
Mary  the  holy  and  pure,  and  when  I  stood  up  before 
her  I  looked  upon  her,  and  I  praised  Christ  our  Lord 
and  God.  And  I  said  unto  her.  Rejoice,  O  holy  woman. 
Mother  of  Christ  our  Lord.  And  the  Holy  Spirit  spake 
by  my  tongue,  and  I  said  unto  her,  Thou  shalt  go  forth 

154 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St.  yohn 

from  this  world  in  great  glory,  and  Christ  shall  make 
manifest  by  thee  many  signs  and  wonders,  so  that  His 
Name  may  be  praised  and  glorified.  And  straightway 
the  holy  woman  remembered  that  Christ  said  unto  her 
at  the  time  of  the  Crucifixion,  "  Woman,  behold  thy 
son,"  and  [that]  He  looked  at  him  (Fol.  46a,  col.  i)  and 
said  unto  His  disciple,  "  Behold  thy  mother." 

HI.  And  when  the  women  her  companions  heard 
[these  things]  they  wept  with  a  great  weeping  and 
bowed  low  to  her.  And  then  the  pure  woman  said  unto 
me,  "  Take  a  censer  and  incense,  pray  and  say,  My 
Lord  and  my  God  Jesus  Christ,  Thou  doer  of  wonders 
innumerable,  do  Thou  now  make  manifest  Thy  won- 
ders on  behalf  of  Thy  Mother,  and  make  her  to  go  forth 
from  this  fleeting  world  with  great  glory,  even  as  Thou 
didst  say  unto  her,  that  those  who  crucified  Thee  should 
fear  and  be  dismayed,  and  believe  in  Thee."  And  I  did 
even  as  the  Mother  of  Light  and  Mercy  commanded 
me.  Then  she  took  the  censer  from  my  hand,  and  cast 
incense  [therein],  and  prayed,  saying,  "  I  praise  Thee, 

0  my  Lord  and  God  Jesus  Christ  ;  behold,  Thou  hast 
given  unto  me  according  as  Thou  didst  say  unto  me. 
Behold  now,  receive  me,  and  take  me  up  into  the 
heavens  as  soon  as  my  spirit  goeth  forth  from  my  body. 
For  Thou  didst  say  unto  me,  '  I  will  come  (Fol.  46a, 
col.  2)  unto  thee  with  My  angels  to  take  [thy]  soul.'  " 
And  then  the  Holy  Spirit  spake  by  my  mouth  and  I 
said  unto  her,  "  Christ,  our  God  and  thy  Son,  will  per- 
form thy  desire  according  to  what  thou  sayest,  and 
thou  shalt  see  Him  with  thine  eyes."  And  then  she 
turned  to  me  and  said  unto  me,  "  O  John,  the  Jews 
wish  to  burn  my  body  in  the  fire  after  I  am  dead."  And 

1  said  unto  her  in  the  Holy  Spirit,  "  Rejoice  and  be 
glad,  for  thy  body  shall  see  no  corruption  whatsoever, 
and  shall  suffer  no  harm."  And  then  she  said  unto  me, 
"  O  John,  cast  incense  into  the  censer,  and  pray  in 
secret  "  ;  and  I  did  even  as  she  commanded  me.  And 

15s 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

behold,  a  voice  came  from  heaven,  and  I  heard  it  say- 
ing, Amen.  I  John  am  a  witness  before  Christ  that  I 
myself  heard  this  voice  from  heaven.  And  the  Holy 
Spirit  said  unto  me,  "  O  John,  didst  thou  hear  this 
voice  from  heaven  when  (Fol.  46a,  col.  3)  thou  didst 
finish  thy  prayer  ?  "  And  I  said  unto  Him,  "  Yea." 
And  this  voice  which  I  heard  said  unto  me,  "  Let  the 
disciples  thy  brethren  be  gathered  together,  and  come 
hither  in  this  hour,  and  all  the  angels  shall  come."  And 
I  prayed  and  made  supplication  for  this,  even  as  my 
Lady  Mary,  the  Mother  of  the  Light,  commanded  me. 

IV.  And  then  the  Holy  Spirit  spake,  saying,  "  Let  all 
the  disciples  come  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  riding 
upon  clouds,  to  Bethlehem,  for  the  sake  of  the  Mother 
of  Christ — thou,  O  Peter,  from  Rome,  and  thou,  O 
Paul,  from  'Abrakeya  (Phrygia  ?),  and  thou,  O  Thomas, 
from  the  interior  of  India,  and  James  from  Jerusalem, 
and  Andrew,  the  brother  of  Peter,  and  Peter,  and  Luke." 
And  those  who  were  asleep  (i.e.  dead)  woke  up  in  the 
Holy  Spirit  from  their  graves.  And  ye  must  not  ima- 
gine [that  they  thought]  the  time  for  the  resurrection 
of  the  dead  had  arrived,  nay,  they  only  woke  up  from 
their  graves  for  the  sake  of  Saint  (Fol.  46b,  col.  i)  Mary, 
the  Mother  of  the  Light,  to  salute  her  and  to  pay 
honour  unto  her.  Since  the  time  of  her  translation  to 
heaven  had  arrived,  he  came  from  Alexandria,  together 
with  the  rest  of  the  Apostles. 

V.  And  at  that  moment  the  Holy  Spirit  gathered  to- 
gether all  the  Apostles,  and  they  mounted  upon  clouds, 
and  He  brought  them  into  Bethlehem,  and  spake  unto 
them,  saying,  "  Behold,  the  Mother  of  your  Lord 
wished  to  see  you  before  her  departure  from  this  world." 
And  in  like  manner  all  the  disciples  were  brought  upon 
clouds,  and  they  came  with  Peter  and  stood  up  before 
the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  made 
obeisance  to  her,  and  said  unto  her,  "  Rejoice,  O  holy 
Virgin,  for  our  Lord  and  God  Who  was  born  of  thee 

156 


PI. A  TE  XXVIII 


I      A 


Lady  Meux  MS.  Xo.  2,  fol.  7ga. 


1.  The  angels  waiting  to  take  Mary  from  earth  to  heaven 

2.  Mary  ascending  into  heaven 

3.  Mary  seated  on  the  right  hand  of  Christ  on  His  throne  in  heaven 

4.  David  playing  on  his  harp 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St,  yohn 

shall  translate  thee  from  this  world  with  great  glory, 
even  as  He  said  unto  thee."  And  when  (Fol.  46b,  col.  2) 
the  holy  woman  saw  the  disciples  and  heard  their  words 
she  remained  upon  her  couch,  and  said  unto  them, 
"  Now  know  I  that  your  Teacher,  and  my  God  and  your 
God  will  come  to  me,  and  that  I  shall  see  Him,  even  as 
I  see  you,  and  that  afterwards  I  shall  be  translated  from 
this  world.  But  I  desire  you  to  tell  me  how  it  was  that 
ye  learned  concerning  my  departure  from  this  world, 
and  how  it  is  that  ye  are  gathered  together  to  me  ;  my 
God  would  not  hide  this  from  me."  And  Peter  and  all 
the  disciples  said  unto  her,  "  The  Holy  Spirit  told  us, 
and  commanded  us  to  come  to  thee."  And  John  said 
unto  her,  "  Whilst  I  was  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary 
in  Ephesus  and  about  to  offer  up  the  offering,  the  Holy 
Spirit  said  unto  me,  '  Behold,  the  departure  of  the  soul 
of  the  Mother  of  thy  Lord  from  her  body  hath  drawn 
nigh.  Get  thee  quickly  to  Bethlehem  that  thou  mayest 
bid  her  farewell.'  And  a  cloud  of  light  snatched  me 
away  and  brought  me  into  (Fol.  46b,  col.  3)  this  place." 
And  Peter  said  unto  her,  "  Whilst  I  was  in  Rome,  at 
dawn  I  heard  the  Holy  Spirit  saying  unto  me.  Behold, 
the  time  of  the  departure  of  the  Mother  of  thy  Lord 
hath  drawn  nigh.  Get  thee  quickly  to  Bethlehem  that 
thou  mayest  bid  her  farewell.  And  a  cloud  snatched 
me  away  between  heaven  and  earth,  and  brought  me 
here.  And  I  saw  all  the  disciples  coming  upon  clouds, 
and  I  heard  a  voice,  saying,  '  Get  ye,  all  of  you,  to 
Bethlehem.'  "  And  Paul  said,  "  Whilst  I  was  very  far 
away  from  Romya  (Rome)  in  a  remote  place  in  the 
country  of  'Abrakeya,  I  heard  the  Holy  Spirit  saying 
unto  me,  '  Behold,  the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  wisheth  to  go  forth  from  this  world  and  to  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens.  Get  thee  away  that 
thou  mayest  bid  her  farewell.'  And  a  shining  cloud 
carried  me  and  brought  me  here."  And  Mark  said, 
"  Whilst  I  was  in  Alexandria,  after  (Fol.  47a,  col.  i)  I 

^S7 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

had  finished  the  prayer  of  the  third  hour,  behold, 
the  Holy  Spirit  snatched  me  away  and  made  me  to 
mount  upon  a  cloud,  and  it  brought  me  to  you." 
James  said,  "  Whilst  I  was  in  Jerusalem  the  Holy  Spirit 
spake  unto  me  in  similar  wise,  and  a  cloud  snatched  me 
away  and  set  me  here."  And  Matthew  said,  "  I  say 
that  whilst  I  was  in  a  ship,  in  great  fear  by  reason  of 
the  great  waves  and  billows  of  a  violent  sea,  a  cloud 
snatched  me  from  among  the  billows  and  set  me  here." 
And  the  disciples  who  had  fallen  asleep  [and  had  left] 
this  world  described  how  they  had  heard  [a  voice],  and 
how  they  had  woke  up  from  their  graves,  and  how  they 
had  been  snatched  away  by  clouds,  and  how  they  had 
come  to  them  (i.e.  to  their  fellows).  And  Bartholomew 
said,  "  Whilst  I  was  preaching  and  was  in  the  city,  the 
Holy  Spirit  said  unto  me,  '  Behold,  the  Mother  of  thy 
Lord  is  about  to  depart  from  this  world  ;  get  thee  to 
Bethlehem.'  And  a  cloud  snatched  me  away  and 
brought  me  into  (Fol.  47a,  col.  2)  this  place."  And 
these  things  did  these  disciples  say  unto  Mary,  the  holy 
and  pure  woman.  At  that  time  the  Mother  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  lifted  up  her  voice,  and  said,  "  I  wor- 
ship, and  praise,  and  give  thanks  unto  Thy  holy  Name, 
O  my  Lord  and  God,  because  Thou  hast  regarded  the 
humility  of  Thine  handmaiden,  and  hast  revealed  unto 
me  Thy  wonders.  O  thou  Mighty  and  Powerful  One, 
Who  canst  do  all  things,  behold,  from  henceforth  all 
generations  shall  call  me  blessed." 

VL  And  when  she  had  finished  her  prayer  she  said 
unto  all  the  disciples,  "  Bring  ye  censers  and  incense, 
and  make  supplication  unto  my  Lord  and  God,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  do  ye  as  He  shall  command  you."  And 
as  they  were  praying,  they  heard  a  terrifying  sound 
from  heaven  like  the  noise  of  horsemen  riding,  to- 
gether with  hosts  of  angels,  and  archangels,  and  they 
also  heard  as  it  were  the  sounds  of  (Fol.  47a,  col.  3)  men. 
And  the  Seraphim  surrounded  the  house  wherein  our 

158 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St,  yohn 

Lady  was  with  the  disciples.  And  this  miracle  was  seen 
by  all  those  who  were  in  Bethlehem,  and  those  who 
were  in  the  house  of  the  sanctuary,  and  they  described 
what  they  saw,  and  they  heard  the  roar  of  the  thunder 
and  the  noise  of  the  chariots.  And  the  sun  and  the 
moon  appeared  above  that  place,  and  many  angels  sur- 
rounded that  place  because  of  the  majesty  and  glory  of 
the  holy  and  pure  Mary.  And  they  also  saw  very  many 
signs  and  wonders,  the  blind  received  their  sight,  the 
lame  walked,  and  the  lepers  were  cleansed  of  their 
leprosy,  and  the  devils  went  out  of  the  demoniacs.  And 
all  those  who  were  sick,  or  who  were  suffering  from  any 
kind  of  disease,  drew  nigh  unto  that  house  wherein  was 
the  holy  and  pure  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  were  healed  of  their  sicknesses.  (Fol.  47b,  col.  i) 
And  all  those  sick  folk  who  were  suffering  from  every 
kind  of  disease,  and  who  came  to  that  house  from  Beth- 
lehem, and  the  districts  round  about,  and  from  the  land 
of  Judah,  were  two  thousand  eight  hundred  souls,  and 
they  cried  out,  saying,  "  O  Mary,  thou  holy  one  of 
God,  have  compassion  upon  us." 

VIL  And  they  were  healed  of  their  sicknesses  at  that 
moment.  And  when  the  people  who  were  sitting  in  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary  heard  this  word,  men  and  women 
went  out  from  among  them  to  be  blessed  by  the  holy 
and  pure  Mary,  and  they  saw  the  signs  and  wonders 
which  Christ  wrought  in  Bethlehem  through  our  Lady 
Mary,  the  Bearer  of  God.  And  all  those  who  were  sick 
or  diseased  came  to  the  holy  woman,  and  made  suppli- 
cation unto  her,  and  were  healed  of  their  sicknesses  ; 
and  there  was  great  joy  and  gladness  because  of  those 
who  were  healed  of  their  sicknesses.  And  all  those  who 
were  there  gave  thanks  unto  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
blessed  Him,  (Fol.  47b,  col.  2)  and  praised  the  holy 
Virgin.  And  all  the  people  of  the  house  of  the  sanctuary 
went  forth  uttering  cries  of  joy,  and  singing  and  prais- 
ing Christ  in  Bethlehem. 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

VIII.  And  straightway  the  priests  of  the  Jews  were 
dismayed  when  they  saw  the  great  praise,  and  heard 
their  cries  of  gladness,  and  their  singing,  and  the  rejoic- 
ings of  the  bcHevers,  and  they  were  wroth  because  of 
this.  And  many  men  went  out  f  rom  Judah  to  Bethlehem 
that  they  might  seize  the  disciples  of  Christ  and  His 
holy  Mother.  And  it  came  to  pass  that,  when  they  had 
marched  for  an  hour,  a  mighty  miracle  appeared  in  re- 
spect of  them  on  the  road,  for  their  eyes  were  darkened, 
and  they  were  not  able  to  see  Bethlehem  ;  and  they 
turned  back  to  their  own  city,  and  told  the  chief  priests 
everything  that  had  befallen  them  on  the  way,  and  how 
they  were  unable  to  march  to  Bethlehem.  And  when 
the  chief  priests  heard  this  thing  they  were  exceedingly 
wroth,  and  they  went  to  the  governor,  (Fol.  47b,  col.  3) 
and  cried  out,  saying,  "All  the  people  of  Judah  are  cor- 
rupted through  Mary,  and  now  we  demand  from  thee 
that  thou  remove  her  from  Bethlehem  and  from  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary."  And  the  governor  marvelled 
at  this  word  and  said  unto  them,  "  It  is  not  for  me 
to  drive  her  out  of  Bethlehem."  And  all  the  Jews 
cried  out  and  swore  by  Cassar  and  said,  "  If  thou  dost 
not  expel  Mary  and  the  disciples  from  Bethlehem,  be- 
hold, we  will  tell  this  thing  to  Cccsar,  and  we  will  relate 
to  him  al]  thy  behaviour."  And  straightway  he  was 
afraid  of  them,  and  he  sent  his  officer,  together  with 
one  thousand  horsemen,  and  he  commanded  him  to 
drive  forth  Mary  and  the  disciples.  And  the  Holy 
Spirit  said  unto  the  holy  woman,  the  Mother  of  our 
Lord,  and  to  the  disciples,  "  Behold,  an  officer  hath 
been  sent  unto  you,  together  with  one  thousand  men, 
to  drive  you  out  of  Bethlehem  according  to  what  the 
Jews  have  demanded.  And  now,  get  ye  out,  and  fear 
not,  for  (Fol.  48a,  col.  i)  I  will  snatch  you  away  on  a 
cloud,  and  will  bring  you  into  the  house  of  the  sanctu- 
ary." And  straightway  the  disciples  went  forth,  bearing 
the  couch  of  the  holy  and  pure  Mary  whereon  she  lay 

160 


Story  of  her  Death  hy  St.  yohn 

during  her  lifetime,  and  they  were  snatched  away  on  a 
cloud,  and  it  brought  them  to  the  house  of  the  sanctu- 
ary as  the  Holy  Spirit  spake  unto  them. 

IX.  And  they  tarried  there  five  days  praying  to 
Christ  and  glorifying  Him.  And  the  officer  who  had 
been  sent  came  to  Bethlehem,  and  he  found  neither  the 
holy  woman  nor  any  one  of  the  disciples.  And  then  he 
took  the  men  of  Bethlehem,  and  said  unto  them,  "Are 
ye  not  those  who  came  to  the  governor  and  to  the  chief 
priests,  and  did  ye  not  tell  them  that  signs  and  wonders 
had  appeared  ?  And  did  ye  not  say  that  the  disciples 
were  gathered  together  from  the  ends  of  the  earth  to 
Bethlehem  ?  Where  are  they  now  ?  Come  ye  now  to 
the  governor  and  to  the  chief  priests,  and  tell  them  how 
[these  things]  took  place."  And  the  governor  (Fol.  48a, 
col.  2)  did  not  know  of  the  coming  of  the  disciples  and 
the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  unto  the  house  of 
the  sanctuary.  And  the  oflicer  took  the  men  of  Beth- 
lehem and  brought  them  with  him  to  the  governor,  and 
he  told  him  how  he  had  not  found  any  one  [of  the  dis- 
ciples] there. 

X.  And  after  five  days  the  governor  and  the  chief 
priests  knew  that  the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
was  in  her  house,  and  that  all  the  disciples  were  with 
her,  and  that  many  signs  and  wonders  took  place 
through  her.  And  there  were  with  her  many  men,  and 
women,  and  virgins,  and  they  cried  out,  saying,  "  O 
holy  and  pure  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  forget 
thou  not  the  children  of  men."  And  because  of  this  the 
great  men  among  the  Jews,  and  their  governors,  and 
their  officers,  together  with  all  their  people,  were  wroth. 
And  then  they  rose  up,  and  they  took  with  them  wood 
and  fire,  wishing  (Fol.  48a,  col.  3)  to  set  on  fire  the 
house  in  which  the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
was,  together  with  the  disciples,  and  the  angels  and  all 
the  believers  ;  and  the  governor  stood  afar  off  in  order 
that  he  might  see  what  would  happen.  And  when  the 

M  161 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

chief  priests  had  come  and  certain  of  the  Jews  to  the 
door  of  the  courtyard,  a  great  fire  went  forth  with  the 
angels  from  that  place,  and  burned  up  many  of  the 
Jews.  And  then  a  great  fear  came  upon  the  men  of  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary,  and  all  those  who  dwelt  in  it 
among  the  Jews,  together  with  their  governors.  And 
sorrow  laid  hold  upon  the  adversaries  of  Christ,  and 
they  praised  Christ  our  God,  Who  was  born  of  the  holy 
and  pure  Virgin  Mary.  And  the  governor  cried  out 
with  a  loud  voice,  saying,  "  Verily,  O  Mary,  He  Who 
is  born  of  thee  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  His  Christ,  before 
Whom  we  have  quarrelled,  and  we  have  driven  Him 
out  and  (Fol.  48b,  col.  i)  cast  Him  forth  from  among 
us,  for  no  one  except  the  Son  of  God,  and  Him  only, 
could  do  these  signs  and  wonders."  And  there  was  a 
great  tumult  among  them,  and  very  many  of  them  be- 
lieved on  the  Name  of  our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus 
Christ. 

XI.  And  then  after  this  miracle  concerning  our  Lady 
and  the  disciples  had  appeared,  the  Holy  Spirit  spake, 
saying,  ''  Now  know  ye  that  on  the  First  Day  of  the 
week  the  Angel  Gabriel  announced  to  Saint  Mary  the 
glad  tidings  that  Christ,  the  Word  of  God,  should  dwell 
upon  her.  And  on  the  First  Day  of  the  week  He  was 
born  in  Bethlehem  of  Judah.  And  on  the  First  Day  of 
the  week  old  men  and  young  men  and  maidens  went 
out  to  meet  and  welcome  our  Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus 
Christ,  saying,  '  Hosanna  in  the  heights  !  Blessed  [is 
He]  Who  Cometh  in  the  Name  of  God.'  And  on  the 
First  Day  of  the  week  our  Lord  rose  from  the  dead. 
And  on  (Fol.  48b,  col.  2)  the  First  Day  of  the  week  He 
shall  come  on  a  cloud  of  heaven  to  judge  the  living  and 
the  dead.  And  on  the  First  Day  of  the  week  He  shall 
come,  because  of  its  majesty  and  glory,  at  the  going 
forth  of  the  soul  of  Saint  Mary  from  this  world." 

Xn.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  on  the  First  Day  of 
the  week  Mary  said  unto  the  disciples,  "  Throw  incense 

162 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St.  yohn 

into  the  censers,  for  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  coming  to 
me  with  all  His  angels."  And  whilst  she  was  holding 
converse  with  them  after  they  had  burnt  incense,  be- 
hold, our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  came,  together  with  His 
angels,  seated  upon  the  throne  of  His  glory.  And  there 
appeared  before  Him  angels  innumerable,  and  more- 
over, there  appeared  a  great  light,  and  the  holy  woman 
was  crowned  with  very  great  glory  at  the  coming  of  her 
Son  and  her  God,  and  all  the  powers  of  heaven  wor- 
shipped her.  And  a  Voice  came  to  the  holy  woman, 
saying,  "  O  Mary."  And  she  answered  (Fol.  48b,  col. 3) 
and  said,  "  Here  am  I."  And  again,  the  Voice  said, 
'*  Rejoice  and  be  glad,  and  let  thy  soul  be  glad  because 
thou  hast  found  great  grace  with  Me  ;  see  thou  the 
glory  and  praise  which  My  Father  hath  given  unto 
Me."  And  straightway  the  Mother  of  our  Lord  saw  a 
great  light  which  man  cannot  describe,  and  then  that 
Voice  said  unto  her,  "  Henceforward  thy  body  shall  rest 
in  the  Garden  (i.e.  Paradise),  and  thy  holy  soul  in  the 
kingdom  of  the  heavens,  a  habitation  that  is  filled  with 
grace,  and  where  there  are  joy  and  gladness."  And  our 
Lady  Mary  said,  "  My  Lord  and  my  God,  stretch  out 
Thy  hand  over  me  and  bless  me." 

XHL  And  then  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  stretched  out 
His  strong  hand  and  blessed  her,  and  the  holy  woman 
took  His  hand,  and  kissed  it,  and  said,  "  I  give  thanks 
unto  this  right  hand,  and  I  glorify  it  because  it  hath 
made  strong  the  heavens,  and  ordered  the  earth  firmly. 
I  beseech  Thee,  O  King,  O  Only  Son,  Who  hath  made 
His  handmaiden  worthy  to  become  incarnate  of  her 
(Fol.  49a,  col.  i)  by  His  wise  Nature  for  the  salvation 
of  men,  to  hearken  unto  my  prayer,  and  of  Thy  great 
mercy  show  favour  unto  me,  and  unto  all  those  who 
shall  make  supplication  unto  Thee  in  the  name  of  me. 
Thine  handmaiden,  and  be  kind  and  gracious  unto 
them.  And  do  Thou  hearken  unto  their  prayer  and  to 
their  petition  in  respect  of  everything  that  they  shall 

163 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

ask  of  Thee,  for  Thou  art  able  to  do  everything."  And 
when  the  disciples  heard  this  request  of  Saint  Mary, 
they  bowed  themselves  down  to  the  ground  on  their 
faces  at  her  feet,  saying,  "  O  Mother  of  our  Lord  and 
Redeemer  Jesus  Christ,  leave  thy  holy  blessing  in  this 
world  wherefrom  thou  art  going  forth."  Then  straight- 
way the  Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  prayed  and 
said,  "  O  God,  Who  in  the  abundance  of  His  compas- 
sion and  mercy  was  pleased  to  send  His  only  Son  into 
my  body,  and  Who  made  me  worthy  that  He  should 
become  incarnate  of  me,  behold,  from  this  time  forth 
have  compassion  upon  the  work  of  Thy  hands,  and 
upon  every  (Fol.  49a,  col.  2)  soul  that  praiseth  Thy 
Name."  And  again  she  said,  "  O  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God  the  most  high.  Who  doeth  whatsoever  He 
pleaseth  both  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth,  bless,  O 
Lord,  that  place  where  a  festival  shall  be  celebrated  in 
my  name,  and  receive  my  prayer,  and  bless  Thy  people 
and  Thy  anointed  ones  who  shall  offer  unto  Thee  sacri- 
fices in  my  name."  And  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  an- 
swered and  said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  I  have  done  this 
for  thee,  now  and  henceforth.  Rejoice  thou,  for  all 
grace  hath  been  and  shall  be  given  unto  thee  by  Me, 
and  by  My  Father,  and  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  And  every 
one  who  shall  observe  thy  commemoration  and  call 
upon  thy  name  shall  never  perish  in  this  world,  but 
shall  find  grace  with  My  Father  Who  is  in  heaven." 

XIV.  And  then  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  turned  to 
Peter,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Behold  now,  the  time  hath 
come,  but  first  I  will  read  and  sing  the  psalm."  And 
then  Peter  (Fol.  49a,  col.  3)  began  to  read  and  to  sing 
with  the  angels.  And  at  that  moment  a  great  light  rose 
upon  the  face  of  the  holy  woman,  and  she  lifted  up  her 
hands  and  blessed  the  disciples.  And  then  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  stretched  out  His  holy  hand  and  received 
her  soul,  and  straightway  her  soul  was  separated  from 
her  body.  And  a  great  light  filled  that  place,  and  there 

164 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St.  yohn 

came  forth  a  beautiful,  sweet  fragrance,  the  like  of 
which  existed  not,  and  a  voice  came  from  heaven,  say- 
ing, "  Blessed  art  thou,  O  blessed  Queen  of  women." 
And  then  Peter  and  the  disciples  bowed  down  at  the 
feet  of  the  holy  woman,  and  embraced  [them]  and  were 
blessed  by  her.  And  they  laid  her  upon  a  bier  and  the 
disciples  carried  her  holy  body  [to  the  tomb].  And  as 
they  were  carrying  her  a  certain  strong  and  mighty  Jew, 
whose  name  was  Taronya,  rushed  at  them,  and  he  laid 
hold  upon  the  bier  of  the  holy  woman  so  that  he  might 
prevent  them  from  carrying  away  her  dead  body.  And 
(Fol.  49b,  col.  i)  straightway  an  angel  came  and  smote 
him  with  a  sword  of  fire,  and  cut  off  both  his  hands,  and 
the  bier  was  lifted  up  [again]  with  the  two  hands  of  the 
Jew  suspended  from  it. 

XV.  And  when  the  Jews  saw  this  miracle  which  had 
taken  place,  they  cried  out  and  said,  "  Verily  He  was 
God  Who  was  born  of  thee,  O  our  Lady  Mary."  And 
Taronya  followed  after  the  bier,  and  cried  out  and  said, 
"  O  holy  woman  of  God,  Mary,  woman  undefiled,  the 
Mother  of  Christ,  turn  thou  to  me  and  have  mercy  and 
compassion  upon  me."  And  then  Peter  turned  to  him 
and  said  unto  him,  "  In  the  Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  our  God,  Who  was  born  of  her,  let  the  two 
hands  which  were  cut  off  from  him  return  to  their 
former  place."  And  when  Peter  spake  thus  his  two 
hands  came  down  from  the  bier,  and  they  returned  [to 
their  place]  whilst  all  the  people  were  looking  on.  And 
at  that  moment  Taronya  and  all  the  Jews  who  were 
(Fol.  49b,  col.  2)  there  believed  when  they  saw  this 
miracle  that  had  taken  place.  And  then  the  disciples 
buried  the  body  of  Saint  Mary  in  the  village  which  is 
called  "  Geteseman  "  (Gethsemane),  in  a  new  sepul- 
chre, and  they  glorified  Christ,  and  they  remained  there 
three  days. 

XVL  And  Thomas,  one  of  the  Twelve  Disciples, 
whose  name  was  "  Didmos  "  (Didymus),  was  not  with 

165 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

the  disciples  when  the  soul  of  our  Lady  Mary  went 
forth  [from  her  body].  And  he  came  from  India  riding 
upon  a  cloud,  and  he  saw  the  body  of  Saint  Mary  and 
angels  carrying  it  along  on  a  cloud  and  taking  it  up  to 
heaven.  And  then  when  Thomas  arrived  Peter  and  all 
the  disciples  said  unto  him,  "  The  body  of  Saint  Mary 
hath  departed  from  this  world  ;  why  didst  thou  tarry 
in  coming  to  her  burial  ?  "  And  Thomas  said,  "  The 
Mother  of  our  Lord  is  not  dead  ;  unless  I  see  her  dead 
body  I  will  not  believe  [it]."  And  the  disciples  said 
unto  him,  "  Behold,  before  this  thou  (Fol.  49b,  col.  3) 
didst  say,  '  I  will  not  believe  that  Christ  is  risen  unless 
I  can  thrust  my  hand  into  His  side,  and  my  fingers  into 
the  nail  marks,'  and  in  the  abundance  of  the  mercy  of 
Christ  He  showed  thee  these  things,  and  thou  didst  cry 
out  and  say,  '  My  Lord  and  my  God.'  "  And  Thomas 
answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  I  will  not  believe  un- 
less I  see  where  ye  have  buried  the  body  of  the  holy 
woman."  And  straightway  Peter  rose  up  and  all  the 
disciples  with  him,  and  they  showed  [him]  the  grave, 
and  they  found  nothing  whatsoever  in  it.  And  Thomas 
answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  Whilst  I  was  preaching 
in  the  Name  of  Christ,  and  was  baptizing  Felodyos,  the 
son  of  the  king's  sister,  the  Holy  Spirit  said  unto  me 
suddenly,  '  Rise  up  quickly,  O  Thomas,  and  salute  the 
body  of  the  holy  woman,  the  Mother  of  thy  Lord.' 
And  a  cloud  snatched  me  away  from  that  place  and 
brought  me  hither,  and  whilst  I  was  coming  to  you  I 
saw  in  the  clouds  (Fol.  50a,  col.  i)  the  body  of  the 
Mother  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  angels  carry- 
ing it  up  into  heaven."  And  when  the  disciples  heard 
the  words  of  Thomas  they  glorified  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

XVn.  And  then  when  the  disciples  were  gathered 
together  twelve  clouds  came  unto  them  and  carried 
them  away  unto  the  Garden,  to  the  place  wherein  was 
the  body  of  Saint  Mary,  and  they  saw  her  with  their 

166 


Story  of  her  Death  by  St.  fohn 

eyes.  And  they  also  saw  Elisabeth,  the  mother  of  John 
the  Baptist,  and  Hanna,  the  mother  of  the  holy  woman 
[Mary],  and  Abraham,  and  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  the  holy 
fathers.  And  David  the  Prophet  also  was  singing  praises 
with  the  chosen  ones  and  the  righteous  ones,  and  they 
worshipped  the  majesty  of  the  body  of  Mary  in  the 
Garden,  and  they  gave  thanks  unto  Christ,  Who  was 
born  of  her,  and  they  ascribed  holiness  unto  Him,  the 
greatness  of  Whose  mercy  and  compassion  cannot  be 
reckoned  ;  for  there  is  no  one  who  is  able  to  describe 
the  greatness  of  His  glory  and  power.  And  then  (Fol. 
50a,  col.  2)  we  the  disciples  glorified  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  Who  showed  favour  unto  us  and  revealed  unto 
us  these  miracles  at  the  departure  of  the  body  of  Saint 
Mary  from  this  fleeting  world  to  life  everlasting,  and 
to  the  gift  of  the  grace  which  is  imperishable.  Behold 
now,  we  ask  our  Lord  and  God  Jesus  Christ,  through 
the  prayer  of  the  holy  woman,  to  protect  us  with  His 
right  hand,  and  to  give  us  power  and  victory  in  this 
world,  and  in  that  other  mercy  and  compassion.  Let  us 
then  glorify  every  day  and  in  every  place  the  Only  Son, 
Who  was  begotten  of  the  Father  before  the  world  and 
was,  moreover,  born  of  Saint  Mary  in  the  later  days, 
with  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  now,  and  for  ever, 
and  for  ever.  Amen. 

Christ,  my  God  and  my  hope,  and  my  Lady  Mary, 
who  saveth  me,  pray  for  me  for  ever  and  for  ever. 


167 


THE   HISTORY  OF   THE   HOLY  AND   PURE 

MARY,  THE  MOTHER  OF  CHRIST  OUR  GOD, 

AND    OF    HER     DEPARTURE     FROM     THIS 

FLEETING  WORLD  INTO  LIFE 

[Brit.  Miis.  MS.  Orient.  No.  604,  Fol.  53a,  col.  2.] 

I.  AND  then  on  the  third  day,  at  the  time  of  noon, 
X\_  Mary  went  out  from  her  house  and  departed 
to  pray  at  the  Tomb,  for  it  was  her  custom  daily  to 
go  forth  to  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha  and  to  pray  [there]. 
And  when  the  Jews  heard  that  Christ  was  dead,  they 
laid  a  great  stone  on  the  mouth  of  the  (Fol.  53a,  col.  3) 
Tomb,  and  sealed  it  with  a  seal,  and  they  set  watch- 
men, and  commanded  them  not  to  allow  anyone  what- 
soever to  pray  there  ;  and  that  if  anyone  did  come 
there  to  pray  they  were  to  stone  him  with  stones  and 
kill  him.  And  behold,  the  Jews  took  the  Cross  of 
Christ,  and  the  two  crosses  on  which  the  thieves  were 
crucified,  and  the  spear  wherewith  they  pierced  His 
side,  and  the  raiment  wherein  they  had  arrayed  Him, 
and  the  crown  of  thorns  which  they  had  woven  for 
Him,  and  the  nails  which  they  had  driven  into  Him, 
and  buried  them  together  in  the  earth.  For  they  were 
afraid  that  some  king  would  come  and  ask  them  ques- 
tions about  everything  that  had  happened  to  Christ, 
and  therefore  they  buried  them  in  the  earth  so  that 
they  could  not  tell  anyone  about  them.  And  the  Jews 
used  to  see  Mary  come  every  day  to  the  Tomb  to  pray, 
and  she  used  to  bow  down  with  her  face  to  the  ground, 
and  then  stand  up  there  for  a  period  of  an  hour,  saying, 
"  O  my  Lord  and  God,  send  to  me  that  they  may  take 
me  from  this  (Fol.  53b,  col.  i)  evil  world,  for  I  am 
greatly  afraid  of  the  Jews  mine  enemies.    Formerly 

168 


The  Virgin  Marys  Persecution  and  Death 

when  they  used  to  come  to  me  I  drove  them  away  and 
made  them  depart  by  the  word  that  went  forth  from 
my  mouth.  It  shut  their  eyes  and  darkened  their  hearts 
by  the  might  of  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Who  was  born 
of  me  of  His  own  free  will,  for  they  were  unable  to  do 
any  harm  to  me  or  to  make  me  to  drink  the  water  of 
correction. 

II.  "  Now  when  they  see  me  coming  to  the  Tomb 
and  praying,  they  revile  me,  and  magnify  themselves 
against  me."  And  then  the  watchmen  went  to  the 
priests,  and  said  unto  them,  "  No  one  cometh  to  pray 
at  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha  except  Mary,  who  cometh  to 
pray  daily  evening  and  morning."  And  the  priests  an- 
swered and  said  unto  the  watchmen,  "  If  she  cometh 
again  stone  her  with  stones."  And  the  watchmen  said 
unto  the  priests,  "  We  will  not  stone  her,  but  (Fol.  53b, 
col.  2)  when  she  cometh  to  the  Tomb  we  will  tell 
you,  and  ye  must  deal  with  her  as  ye  wish."  And  the 
priests  said  unto  the  watchmen,  "  Ye  must  stone 
her  heavily,  for  she  deserveth  punishment  because  she 
hath  put  to  shame  the  children  of  Israel."  And  on 
the  evening  of  Friday  Mary  went  to  the  Tomb  to 
pray  according  to  her  wont.  And  as  she  was  praying 
she  lifted  up  her  eyes  to  heaven — with  the  sweet  odour 
of  incense — 

III.  and  then  the  Angel  Gabriel  came  to  Mary  the 
Virgin,  and  bowed  down  to  her,  and  said  unto  her, 
"  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  blessed  among  women,  God  is 
with  thee,  O  Mother  of  God.  Behold,  thy  prayer  hath 
arrived,  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  hath  accepted  thy 
petition.  Henceforward  thou  shalt  go  forth  from  this 
world,  and  thou  shalt  depart  to  life  and  mercy  for  ever 
and  ever.  For  this  reason  I  have  been  sent  unto  thee.  I 
tell  thee  and  declare  unto  thee  that  at  the  very  moment 
when  thou  prayest  upon  the  earth  thy  prayer  is  heard 
in  heaven.  And  every  petition  which  thou  makest  to 
Christ,  Who  sitteth  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 

169 


The  Histo?y  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

He  will  grant  thee,  and  He  will  grant  thy  wish  in 
heaven  and  upon  earth.  Blessed  be  thy  name  for  ever 
and  ever." 

IV.  And  again  the  watchmen  came  to  the  priests  and 
told  them  that  Mary  had  come  and  prayed  at  the 
Tomb,  and  had  turned  and  gone  back  to  her  house. 
And  behold,  there  was  a  great  commotion  in  the  house 
of  the  Sanctuary  because  of  Mary.  And  the  priests 
went  unto  the  governor,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Send  ye 
to  Mary  [telling  her]  that  she  must  not  go  to  the  Tomb 
of  Golgotha,  and  that  she  must  not  pray  there."  And 
whilst  they  were  troubled  about  this  matter,  a  letter 
came  from  'Ankor,  king  of  Roha  (Edessa),  to  Tibaryos 
(Tiberius)  the  Emperor,  saying,  "  I  tell  thee  (Fol.  54a, 
col.  i)  that  one  of  the  two  and  seventy  disciples  hath 
built  a  church  in  the  city  of  Roha,  and  that  he  hath 
healed  me  of  the  disease  which  was  upon  me,  and  that 
he  hath  related  unto  me  the  miracles  that  Christ 
wrought.  And  when  the  love  of  Him  had  entered  my 
heart,  I  wished  to  see  Him  and  wanted  Him  to  be  with 
me  in  my  city,  but  when  I  heard  that  the  Jews  had 
taken  Him  and  crucified  Him,  I  was  exceedingly  sorry. 
And  then  I  rose  up  and  I  mounted  my  horse,  and  I 
came  to  the  Euphrates  to  cross  over  to  Jerusalem,  in 
order  to  make  war  and  to  lay  waste  the  country,  and  to 
kill  all  those  who  dwelt  there,  because  they  had  killed 
Christ.  And  as  I  was  marching  along  the  road  I  medi- 
tated in  my  heart  and  said,  \i  I  cross  this  Euphrates 
which  doth  not  belong  to  me,  Tiberius  will  make  the 
desire  for  vengeance  to  dwell  in  his  heart,  and  enmity, 
and  vengeance,  and  slaughter  will  be  between  us. 
Therefore  I  turned  and  went  back  to  my  city.  Now 
therefore  (Fol.  54a,  col.  2)  I  wish  thee  to  slay  those 
Jews  who  crucified  Christ  without  cause.  Had  I  only 
known  beforehand  that  they  were  going  to  crucify 
Christ  I  would  have  come  to  thee  to  prevent  them 
crucifying  Him."  Thus  did  'Ankor,  the  king  of  Edessa, 

170 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

write  to  Tiberius.  And  when  this  letter  had  been  read 
to  the  Emperor  Tiberius  he  trembled  and  was  dis- 
mayed, and  was  afraid  with  a  great  fear,  and  he  wished 
to  kill  the  Jews. 

V.  And  when  the  men  of  Jerusalem  heard  this  thing 
fear  seized  them,  and  they  went  to  the  governor  and 
said  unto  him,  "All  this  hath  happened  through  Mary, 
and  through  Him  that  was  born  of  her  will  Jerusalem 
be  laid  waste.  Now  send  and  prevent  Mary  from  going 
to  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha  and  praying  there."  And  the 
governor  answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  Go  ye  your- 
selves and  tell  her  what  ye  wish."  And  then  the  priests 
went  unto  Mary,  and  said  unto  her,  "  Behold,  from 
this  time  take  heed  to  thyself  that  (Fol.  54a,  col.  3) 
thou  goest  not  to  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha  to  pray  there  ; 
O  Mary,  behold,  we  have  warned  thee.  Remember 
thou  the  sin  that  thou  hast  committed  before  God. 
And  if  thou  wishest  to  pray  then  pray  with  the  people, 
and  follow  the  commandments  of  Moses,  so  that  God 
may  forgive  thee  the  sin  which  thou  hast  committed. 
And  on  the  Sabbaths  go  thou  to  the  synagogue  with  the 
[other]  people,  and  let  the  priest  lay  upon  thy  head  the 
[roll  of  the]  Law  that  God  may  forgive  thee  thy  sin. 
And  if  thou  doest  this  we  will  not  deal  craftily  with 
thee,  and  we  will  not  cast  thee  out.  And  if  thou  art  ill 
we  will  visit  thee,  and  we  will  proclaim  (?)  with  the 
sound  of  the  trumpet,  and  in  due  season  thou  wilt  be 
healed,  and  we  will  entreat  God  to  have  mercy  upon 
thee,  and  to  have  compassion  upon  thee.  And  if  thou 
wilt  not  observe  our  words,  get  thee  out  of  Jerusalem, 
and  go  to  Bethlehem,  for  we  will  not  allow  thee  again 
to  pray  at  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha.  What  sayest  thou  ?  " 
And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  I  do  not 
wish  you  to  say  these  things  to  me  ;  I  will  not  accept 
your  (Fol.  54b,  col.  i)  words,  and  I  will  not  obey  your 
commands,  and  I  will  not  walk  in  the  perversity  of  your 
paths."  Then  the  Jews  went  forth  from  Mary  in  rage 

171 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

and  indignation,  and  they  departed  to  their  houses,  for 
the  sun  was  setting. 

VI.  And  on  the  morrow  they  came  to  Mary  and 
they  said  unto  her,  "  O  Mary,  we  have  already  spoken 
unto  thee,  and  thou  wilt  neither  accept  our  commands 
nor  obey  our  words,  and  thou  hast  treated  our  words 
as  contemptible  things."  And  she  held  her  peace,  and 
made  no  answer  unto  them  whatsoever.  And  after  this 
Mary  fell  sick,  and  she  called  all  the  women  of  her 
quarter  and  said  unto  them,  "  Peace  be  unto  you.  Be- 
hold, I  wish  to  go  to  Bethlehem  and  to  dwell  there  in 
my  house,  for  the  Jews  have  prevented  me  from  pray- 
ing at  the  Tomb  of  Golgotha  ;  and  if  there  be  any  who 
wisheth  to  come  with  me,  let  her  make  haste  and  come. 
For  I  trust  in  the  Lord  (Fol.  54b,  col.  2)  my  God,  Who 
is  in  heaven,  and  He  will  give  unto  me  whatsoever  I  ask 
and  will  do  for  me  what  I  desire."  Moreover,  her  heart 
rejoiced  because  of  the  word  that  the  Angel  Gabriel 
had  said  unto  her  when  she  was  praying  at  the  Tomb, 
"  O  blessed  among  women,  behold,  thou  shalt  go  forth 
from  this  fleeting  world  into  everlasting  life  whereof 
there  is  no  end.  Thy  prayer  hath  been  heard  by  the  ear 
of  the  Lord  of  Hosts."  And  then  there  came  to  her 
three  virgins  who  ministered  unto  her,  and  they  said 
unto  her,  "  Be  not  sad,  O  our  Lady.  Behold,  we  will 
come  with  thee,  so  that  we  may  find  compassion  with 
the  Lord  Who  was  born  of  thee.  For  thy  sake  we  have 
forsaken  our  families,  and  we  have  chosen  thee  in 
preference  to  everything  that  we  have,  and  we  have 
come  to  thee  to  die  and  to  live  with  thee."  Thus  did 
the  virgins  speak,  and  they  devoted  themselves  to  serv- 
ing her  by  day  and  by  night.  And  they  entreated  her 
(Fol.  54b,  col.  3)  to  tell  them  how  it  was  that  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  was  born  of 
her  without  carnal  union.  And  Mary,  the  Mother  of 
the  Light,  explained  [this]  clearly  to  these  virgins,  and 
she  told  them  everything  that  they  wished  to  be  taught 

172 


PLATE  XXIX 


Lxdy  Mcux  MS.  Xo.  3,  fol.  38a. 

The  Virgin  Mary  delivering  two  souls  from  the  clutches  of  the  Devil 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

by  her,  and  they  accepted  service  [with]  her,  and  they 
did  her  good  pleasure.  And  they  washed  her  feet,  and 
they  perfumed  her  apparel,  for  she  was  accounted  by 
them  a  glorious  woman,  because  they  saw  the  signs  and 
wonders  which  Mary  wrought  before  them  by  day  and 
by  night.  And  the  first  miracle  which  they  saw  was  that 
her  odour,  and  sweetness,  and  perfume  filled  the  house 
wherein  our  Lady  was,  like  the  waves  of  the  sea.  And 
all  the  sick  and  diseased  used  to  come  to  her,  and  be 
blessed  by  her,  and  they  worshipped  her  and  were  cured 
of  their  sicknesses,  and  those  virgins  marvelled  when 
they  saw  (Fol.  55a,  col.  i)  that  great  glory  rested  upon 
her. 

VII.  And  then  multitudes  of  men  and  women  came 
to  Mary,  and  they  bowed  down  before  her,  and  said 
unto  her,  "  Have  mercy  upon  us  and  show  us  compas- 
sion, and  reject  us  not,  O  our  Lady."  And  the  blessed 
woman  stretched  out  her  hands  and  blessed  them,  and 
said  unto  them,  "  God  shall  accept  your  prayer  and 
your  petition  before  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  And  she 
also  blessed  those  virgins  who  were  with  her  and  who 
ministered  unto  her  [saying],  "  Out  of  all  the  people  of 
Israel  only  they  have  followed  me."  And  then  Gabriel, 
the  Angel  of  God,  appeared  unto  the  blessed  woman 
Mary,  and  said  unto  her,  "  Be  strong,  and  fear  not,  O 
Mother  of  God.  Rise  up,  and  go  to  Bethlehem,  and  re- 
main there  ;  thou  shalt  see  coming  to  thee  the  hosts  of 
the  angels,  and  the  Apostles,  and  all  created  beings,  to 
salute  thee  and  to  proclaim  thee  blessed." 

VIII.  And  when  (Fol.  55a,  col.  2)  those  virgins  saw 
the  Angel  of  God  talking  to  Mary  they  were  afraid 
with  a  great  fear.  And  then  the  blessed  Mary  called 
to  those  virgins  and  said  unto  them,  "  Bring  ye  me  in- 
cense and  apparel,  so  that  I  may  give  an  oblation  to 
God."  Now  those  virgins  were  the  children  of  the 
elders  of  Jerusalem,  and  their  names  were  these  :  the 
first  was  "  Hanna,"  the  meaning  of  whose  name  is 

173 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

"  The  Church,  the  assembly  of  the  nations,  which  is 
the  heavenly  Jerusalem."  The  name  of  the  second  was 
*'  'Absa,"  and  its  meaning  is,  "  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
Who  sitteth  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father."  And  the 
name  of  the  third  was  "  Saga,"  and  its  meaning  is,  "  It 
is  the  Holy  Spirit  Who  giveth  life  to  all  those  who  be- 
lieve in  Christ,  the  First  God."  And  on  the  fifth  day, 
at  dawn,  Mary  went  forth,  together  with  those  virgins, 
and  she  departed  to  Bethlehem,  and  she  remained  there 
(Fol.  55a,  col.  3)  that  night.  And  on  the  morning  of  the 
sixth  day  Mary  fell  sick,  and  then  she  said  unto  the  vir- 
gins, "  Bring  me  a  censer,  for  I  wish  to  pray  to  my 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  Who  is  in  heaven."  And  they  brought 
the  censer  to  her,  and  she  placed  incense  therein,  and 
she  prayed,  saying,  "  O  my  Lord,  and  God,  and  Re- 
deemer, Jesus  Christ,  Who  dwellest  in  heaven,  hearken 
Thou  unto  my  prayer  and  petition,  and  send  unto  me 
John  the  Less,  for  I  wish  to  see  him  and  to  rejoice  with 
him,  and  also  send  unto  me  all  the  Apostles  his  brethren. 
I  believe  in  Thy  grace  wherewith  Thou  hast  been 
gracious  unto  me.  I  know  that  Thou  wilt  hear  me,  and 
wilt  give  me  everything  that  I  want  from  Thee."  And 
when  she  had  finished  her  prayer  the  Holy  Spirit  spake 
unto  John  in  Ephesus,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Behold,  the 
Mother  of  thy  Teacher  wisheth  to  see  thee.  Get  thee 
forth  at  dawn,  (Fol.  55b,  col.  i)  and  depart  to  Beth- 
lehem. And  I  will  go  to  thy  brethren  the  Apostles,  and 
will  gather  them  together  from  all  countries.  And  I 
will  wake  up  those  who  are  asleep  from  their  graves,  and 
I  will  bring  all  of  them  together  that  they  may  salute 
the  holy  and  blessed  Mary."  Thus  did  the  Holy  Spirit 
speak  to  John,  and  then  he  removed  Himself  from  him. 
IX.  And  on  the  following  morning  John  rose  up  and 
began  to  command  his  disciples  not  to  cease  from  their 
service  in  the  Sanctuary,  but  to  perform  the  ofhces  of 
prayer  in  their  due  season.  And  the  Holy  Spirit  told 
him  what  he  should  say  to  them  concerning  Mary. 

174 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  a7id  Death 

And  then  he  departed  from  Ephesus,  and  he  bowed  low 
and  prayed,  and  said,  "  O  my  Lord  and  God  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  give  unto  me  help,  O  Lord, 
and  strength  on  this  journey,  wherein  I  am  going  to  see 
Thy  Mother  before  she  dieth."  And  as  he  was  praying, 
suddenly  the  Holy  Spirit  came,  and  (Fol.  55b,  col.  2) 
caught  him  up  in  a  cloud  of  light,  and  brought  him  to 
the  door  of  Mary's  house  ;  and  it  seemed  to  him  that 
he  travelled  to  Bethlehem  by  way  of  the  desert.  And 
when  they  opened  the  door  of  Mary's  house  he  went 
into  her  presence,  and  he  found  her  lying  upon  her 
couch,  and  he  drew  nigh  to  her,  and  he  bowed  low  at 
her  feet  and  said  unto  her,  "  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O 
blessed  among  women,  the  Mother  of  God  !  Be  not 
sorrowful,  behold,  thou  shalt  go  forth  from  this  world 
with  joy,  and  gladness,  and  great  glory."  And  then 
those  virgins  came  to  John  and  were  blessed  by  him. 
And  Mary  said  unto  John,  "  Put  incense  into  the 
censer  "  ;  and  he  did  as  she  commanded  him.  And  he 
prayed,  saying  thus,  "  O  my  Lord  and  God  Jesus 
Christ,  perform  Thou  signs  and  wonders  for  Thy 
Mother  before  she  departeth  from  this  world,  so  that 
all  those  (Fol.  55b,  col.  3)  who  do  not  believe  in  Thee — 
now  Thy  Name  is  praised  by  those  who  love  Thee,  and 
believe  that  Thou  art  Christ,  the  Son  of  God — may  be 
put  to  shame  and  suffer  loss.  And  behold,  the  heavens 
and  the  earth  are  witnesses  that  Saint  Mary  is  Thy 
Mother,  and  that  Thou  art  the  Son  of  the  Living  God. 
And  all  those  who  believe  in  Thee  shall  live  for  ever  and 
ever." 

X.  And  when  John  had  finished  his  prayer  Saint 
Mary  said  unto  him,  "  Behold,  thy  Teacher  said  unto 
me,  If  thou  wishest  to  go  forth  from  this  world  I  My- 
self will  come  unto  thee  with  all  the  hosts  of  My 
angels."  And  John  answered  and  said  unto  her,  "  Be- 
hold, He  will  come,  and  thou  shalt  see  Him,  even  as  He 
said  unto  thee."  And  the  blessed  woman  answered  and 

175 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

said  unto  him,  "  Behold,  the  Jews  have  planned  that, 
after  my  death,  they  will  burn  my  body  with  fire." 
And  John  answered  and  said  unto  her,  "  Fear  thou  not, 
God  is  with  thee,  for  unto  none  hath  power  over  thee 
been  given."  (Fol.  56a,  col.  i)  And  the  blessed  woman 
answered  and  said  unto  him,  "  When  I  am  dead  where 
wilt  thou  bury  me  ?  "  And  John  said  unto  her, "Where 
Christ  shall  command  me  "  ;  and  at  that  moment  the 
blessed  woman  wept  and  shed  tears.  And  when  John 
saw  her  weeping  he  was  exceedingly  sorrowful,  and  he 
wept  with  the  virgins.  And  he  drew  nigh  unto  her,  and 
said  unto  her,  "  Is  it  then  that  thou,  the  Mother  of 
God,  art  afraid  of  the  departure  from  this  world  ?  How 
then  do  the  righteous  and  the  good  fare  when  they  go 
forth  from  this  world  ?  Fear  thou  not,  for  behold,  the 
Holy  Spirit  said  unto  me  in  Ephesus,  '  Rise  up  and  go 
to  the  blessed  woman  Mary  [and  tarry  there]  until  the 
Apostles  come  and  bow  down  before  thee.'  "  And 
Mary  answered  and  said  unto  him,  "  Put  incense  [in 
the  censer],  and  pray,  and  do  as  He  commanded  thee." 
And  John  prayed,  saying,  "  O  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
hear  my  prayer,  and  receive  the  petition  of  Thy  Mother, 
and  graciously  grant  unto  her  that  she  may  see  Thee 
whilst  (Fol.  56a,  col.  2)  she  is  alive,  as  Thou  didst  pro- 
mise with  thy  holy  mouth,  when  Thou  didst  come  to 
her  of  Thine  own  free  will  and  by  the  good  pleasure  of 
Thy  Father,  Who  is  in  heaven,  even  as  Thou  didst  come 
down  from  heaven,  and  didst  dwell  with  her.  And  now, 
visit  Thou  her  with  Thy  hosts  of  angels,  that  Thy 
Name  may  be  praised  in  heaven  and  upon  the  earth." 
And  whilst  John  was  praying  in  this  wise,  a  voice  came 
from  heaven,  saying,  "Amen."  And  whilst  John  was 
marvelling  at  the  voice  which  he  had  heard,  the  Holy 
Spirit  came  unto  him  and  said  unto  him,  "  This  voice 
which  thou  didst  hear  [signifieth]  that  it  was  to  gather 
together  the  Apostles  from  everywhere,  in  order  to 
salute  Saint  Mary." 

176 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  ajid  Death 

XI.  And  then  the  Holy  Spirit  went  to  the  Apostles 
and  said  unto  them,  "  Get  ye  to  Bethlehem  that  ye 
may  receive  the  blessing  of  Mary."  And  behold,  Simon 
Peter  wished  to  go  to  Jerusalem  to  celebrate  the  Offer- 
ing, and  the  Holy  Spirit  came  to  him,  (Fol.  56a,  col.  3) 
and  said  unto  him,  "  When  thou  hast  finished  the 
Offering,  get  thee  to  Bethlehem,  for  the  time  hath 
come  for  the  departure  of  Mary,  the  Mother  of  thy 
Lord,  from  this  world,"  And  He  spake  also  unto  Paul 
in  the  city  the  name  of  which  is  Tereyos,  which  is  a 
distance  of  fifty  marches  from  the  city  of  Rome,  and 
He  found  the  Jews  quarrelling  with  him,  and  reviling 
him,  saying,  "  We  will  not  hear  thy  words,  for  thou  art 
of  the  men  of  Tersus  (Tarsus),  because  thou  preachest 
Christ.  And  behold,  we  know  that  thou  art  a  man  of 
no  account."  And  whilst  they  were  quarrelling  with 
him  in  this  wise,  the  Holy  Spirit  said  unto  Paul,  "  Be- 
hold, the  time  hath  come  for  the  departure  of  the 
Mother  of  thy  Teacher  from  this  world  ;  rise  up  and 
go  to  her."  And  the  Holy  Spirit  also  spake  unto 
Thomas  in  the  country  of  India,  as  he  was  sitting  on 
the  couch  of  the  daughter  of  the  king,  and  said  unto 
him,  "  The  time  hath  come  for  the  departure  from  this 
world  (Fol.  56b,  col.  i)  of  Mary,  the  Mother  of  thy 
Teacher  ;  get  thee  to  her  quickly."  And  then  Thomas 
rose  up  and  went  into  the  church,  and  put  incense  into 
the  censer,  and  prayed  for  her.  And  the  Holy  Spirit 
also  spake  unto  Matthew,  and  said  unto  him,  "  The 
time  hath  come  for  the  departure  of  Mary,  the  Mother 
of  thy  Lord  ;  get  thee  to  her  quickly."  And  likewise 
the  Holy  Spirit  spake  unto  James  in  Jerusalem.  And  to 
those  who  were  sleeping  (i.e.  dead),  Andrew,  the 
brother  of  Simon  Peter,  and  Luke,  and  Simon  Zelotes, 
came  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  He  spake  unto  them  in  their 
graves,  saying,  "  Think  not  that  the  time  for  the  resur- 
rection of  the  dead  and  the  end  of  days  hath  come, 
nevertheless  rise  up  this  day  from  your  graves,  and  get 

N  177 


The  Hist07y  of  the  Virgi?t  Mary 

ye  to  Bethlehem,  that  ye  may  receive  the  blessing  of 
Saint  Mary."  Thus  did  the  Holy  Spirit  speak  (Fol, 
56b,  col.  2)  unto  all  the  Apostles.  And  they  pondered, 
saying,  "  How  is  it  possible  for  us  to  get  to  Bethlehem 
quickly  ?  "  And  then  the  Holy  Spirit  came  to  them  and 
caught  them  away  into  the  clouds,  and  the  winds  blew 
upon  them  from  every  quarter,  and  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  were  lighted  up  with  multitudes  of  flashes  of 
lightning,  from  the  fourth  hour  of  the  morning  until 
noon,  at  which  time  the  Apostles  arrived  in  Bethlehem. 
And  very  great  fear  was  caused  by  the  greatness  of  their 
awful  majesty,  for  they  arrived  mounted  upon  a  shining 
cloud,  and  their  raiment  was  as  white  as  snow,  and 
crowns  of  glory  sparkled  on  their  heads,  and  the  angels 
bore  the  chariots  of  light  and  cloud  whereon  the 
Apostles  were  mounted.  And  the  Holy  Spirit  guided 
the  clouds  between  heaven  and  earth.  And  behold, 
David,  the  son  of  Jesse,  came  with  them,  and  he  was 
singing  [to  the  harp]  and  saying,  "  Glory  be  to  the 
Father,  glory  be  (Fol.  56b,  col.  3)  to  the  Son,  glory  be 
to  the  Holy  Ghost."  Thus  did  he  sing  before  them. 

XH.  Then  came  the  Archangels  Michael  and 
Gabriel,  and  they  stood  up  before  the  Apostles  and 
said  unto  them,  "  Peace  be  unto  you,  O  ye  disciples  of 
the  Great  King  Who  chose  you  at  His  wish."  And  the 
Apostles  said  unto  them,  "  Peace  be  unto  you,  O  ye 
Angels  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  ye  guardians  of  the 
holy  mystery  of  His  Word,  the  Holy  Ghost."  And  the 
Holy  Spirit  said  unto  John,  "  Get  thee  out  to  welcome 
thy  brethren  the  Apostles  ;  behold,  they  have  come  to 
Bethlehem."  And  straightway  John  went  forth  to  wel- 
come them,  and  he  bowed  down  to  them,  and  Peter 
said  unto  him,  "  Is  the  glorious  and  blessed  Mother  of 
the  Light  dead,  or  not  ?  "  And  John  answered  and  said 
unto  him,  "  She  is  not  dead."  And  then  John  prayed 
and  made  supplication  before  them,  and  Bethlehem 
was  filled  with  (Fol.  57a,  col.  i)  its  odour  and  perfume. 

178 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

And  then  the  Apostles  and  the  Angels  came  together 
into  the  house  of  the  holy  and  blessed  woman,  and  they 
bowed  low  at  her  feet.  And  they  said  unto  her,  "  Peace 
be  unto  thee,  O  thou  who  art  full  of  grace,  God  is  with 
thee,  and  joy  ;  fear  not,  neither  be  dism.ayed,  O  thou 
blessed  among  women.  For  He  Who  was  born  of  thee 
shall  take  thee  out  of  this  world  with  great  glory,  and 
shall  carry  thee  into  the  treasury  of  light,  for  in  thee  is 
power  over  them  and  over  all  the  righteous."  And  at 
that  moment  Mary  rose  up  and  sat  upon  her  couch, 
and  said  unto  the  disciples,  "  Behold  now,  I  believe  in 
the  coming  of  my  Lord  from  heaven,  and  that  I  shall 
see  Him  without  dying,  even  as  ye  see  me.  Tell  me, 
who  was  it  that  told  you  that  I  was  a  sick  woman  ?  And 
from  what  country  have  ye  come  to  me  ?  And  on  what 
did  ye  ride  and  how  did  ye  arrive  [so]  (Fol.  57a,  col.  2) 
quickly  here  ?  Behold,  I  wish  to  praise  God  Who  told 
you  about  me."  And  Peter  answered  and  said  unto 
John,  and  unto  the  disciples,  "  Tell  her,  each  of  you, 
how  ye  came  here  to  her."  And  the  disciples  answered 
and  said  unto  John,  "  Behold,  thou  didst  come  first,  do 
thou  tell  her  how  thou  camest."  And  John  answered 
and  said,  "  I  was  in  Ephesus,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  came 
and  said  unto  me,  '  O  John,  the  time  hath  come  for  the 
departure  from  this  world  of  the  Mother  of  thy  Lord, 
and  she  wisheth  to  see  thee.'  And  the  Holy  Spirit  also 
said  unto  me,  '  Behold,  I  will  go  and  pass  through  all 
the  countries  and  announce  this  to  the  Apostles,  [both] 
those  who  are  alive  and  those  who  are  dead,  and  I  will 
tell  them  about  Mary,  and  that  they  are  to  go  to  Beth- 
lehem and  salute  her.'  And  behold,  suddenly  the  Holy 
Spirit  caught  me  away  into  a  cloud  of  light,  and 
brought  me  (Fol.  57a,  col.  3)  that  very  moment  into 
the  house  of  Mary."  And  Peter  answered  and  said, 
"And  I  was  in  the  city  of  Rome,  wishing  to  offer  up  the 
Offering  of  the  Body  and  Blood  of  our  Lord  and  Re- 
deemer, Jesus  Christ,  for  the  forgiveness  of  sins,  [when] 

179 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

the  Holy  Spirit  came  and  said  unto  me, '  The  time  hath 
come  for  the  departure  from  this  world  of  Mary,  the 
Mother  of  thy  Lord  ;  get  thee  to  her  in  Bethlehem.' 
And  then  a  shining  cloud  caught  me  up  and  brought 
me  here,  and  I  saw  all  the  Apostles  mounted  upon 
clouds  coming  to  me."  And  Paul  answered  and  said, 
"  I  was  contending  with  the  Jews  when  suddenly  the 
Holy  Spirit  caught  me  up  and  brought  me  to  you." 
And  Thomas  answered  and  said,  "  I  was  in  the  country 
of  India,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  came  and  caught  me 
(Fol.  57b,  col.  i)  up  and  brought  me  to  you."  Mark 
said,  "  I  was.  praying  in  Alexandria,  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
came  to  me  and  said,  '  Behold,  the  departure  of  the 
Mother  of  thy  Lord  from  this  world  is  nigh,  rise  up  and 
get  thee  to  Bethlehem.'  And  the  Holy  Spirit  caught 
me  up  and  brought  me  here."  James  answered  and  said, 
"  I  was  burning  incense  in  the  Tomb  at  Golgotha,  and 
the  Holy  Spirit  spake  unto  me,  saying,  '  The  holy  and 
blessed  woman  is  going  to  depart  from  this  world  '  ; 
and  [then]  the  Holy  Spirit  caught  me  up  and  brought 
me  here."  Matthew  said,  "  I  was  in  a  ship  preaching 
God  and  blessing  Him,  when  the  waves  surrounded  me 
from  all  sides.  I  wept  and  prayed,  and  as  I  prayed  the 
Holy  Spirit  caught  me  up  in  a  shining  cloud,  and 
brought  me  to  you."  Philip  said,  "  I  being  dead  heard 
the  voice  of  a  herald  crying  out,  and  saying,  '  Philip, 
Philip,  (Fol.  57b,  col.  2)  rise  up,  and  come  forth  from 
the  grave.'  And  straightway  I  rose  up,  and  behold,  the 
Holy  Spirit  caught  me  up  and  brought  me  to  you." 
Simon  Zelotes  said,  "After  I  was  dead  I  rose  up  from 
the  grave,  and  behold,  the  hand  of  a  stretched-out  arm 
came  to  me,  and  it  raised  me  up  from  among  the  dead, 
and  the  Holy  Spirit  caught  me  up  in  a  shining  cloud, 
and  brought  me  to  you."  Luke  said,  "  When  I  was  in 
the  grave  I  heard  the  sound  of  the  horn  which  the 
angels  blow,  and  a  light  came  and  entered  into  the 
grave  wherein  I  was.  Now  I  thought  that  the  resurrec- 

180 


Her  Persecutio7i  by  the  Priests  ana  Death 

tion  of  the  dead  [was  come],  when  behold,  the  Holy 
Spirit  came  and  brought  me  to  you."  And  Andrew 
answered  and  said,  "  I  rose  from  the  dead  because  I 
heard  the  voice  of  the  Son  of  God  saying,  'Andrew, 
Andrew,  rise  up,  and  get  thee,  (Fol.  57b,  col.  3)  to- 
gether with  the  Apostles,  to  Bethlehem.  Behold,  I  and 
all  the  armies  of  the  angels  will  come  with  you.  For 
the  time  of  the  crowning  of  Saint  Mary  with  honour 
and  glory  hath  arrived,  and  she  is  going  forth  from  this 
world.  And  behold,  I  will  bring  her  into  the  treasuries 
of  the  light  of  the  Father,  and  she  shall  dwell  there 
until  I  come  to  judge  the  living  and  the  dead.'  "  And 
Bartholomew  said,  "  Behold,  I  was  preaching  in  the 
Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  was  trusting  in  the 
riches  of  His  grace,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  came  and  caught 
me  up,  and  brought  me  to  you."  In  this  wise  did  the 
Apostles  speak  unto  the  holy  woman  Mary,  and  each 
one  of  them  described  to  her  how  he  had  come  thither. 
XHI.  And  when  the  holy  Virgin  Mary  heard  the 
words  of  the  Apostles,  she  praised  the  God  of  heaven 
and  earth,  and  said,  "  I  worship  Thee,  O  my  Lord  and 
God.  I  believe  in  Thee,  and  I  praise  Thee,  (Fol.  58a, 
col.  i)  and  I  magnify  Thee,  and  I  sing  unto  Thee,  and 
I  bless  Thee  because  Thou  hast  not  made  me  a  laugh- 
ing-stock for  the  nations.  Moreover,  Thou  hast  put  to 
shame  the  wicked  Jews,  who  have  meditated  evil 
against  me  and  would  burn  my  body  in  the  fire.  And 
now,  I  praise  Thy  Name,  and  I  magnify  Thy  power  for 
ever  and  ever.  And  evermore  will  I  sing  praise  before 
Thee  because  Thou  hast  sent  Thy  Apostles  to  me." 
And  when  Mary  had  ended  her  prayer,  she  said  unto 
the  Apostles,  "  Put  ye  incense  in  the  censer  and  pray  "  ; 
and  they  did  as  she  commanded  them,  and  they  prayed 
and  bowed  low  to  the  ground.  And  behold,  there  was 
the  roar  of  thunder  in  the  heavens,  and  there  came  a 
voice  that  was  like  unto  the  noise  of  a  heavy  wheel  re- 
volving swiftly,  and  a  sweet  and  lovely  odour  from 

181 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

heaven.  And  then  the  angels  and  the  armies  of  heaven, 
which  are  innumerable,  came  down,  and  they  covered 
the  house  wherein  was  the  holy,  and  blessed,  and  pure 
Virgin  twofold,  Mary,  (Fol.  58a,  col.  2)  the  Mother  of 
God,  and  they  crowned  her  with  their  wings,  saying, 
"  Holy,  Holy,  Holy  [is]  the  Lord  our  God  Whom  celes- 
tial and  terrestrial  beings  worship."  And  then  there  was 
great  fear  in  Bethlehem,  and  signs  and  wonders  were 
revealed  there,  and  the  hosts  of  the  armies  of  God 
ceased  not  to  go  up  into  heaven  and  to  come  down 
again  into  the  house.  And  there  went  forth  from  their 
midst  as  it  were  the  sound  of  the  Son  of  Man  Who  was 
speaking  in  the  chariot  of  the  Cherubim,  saying,  "  Get 
ye  gone  and  go  into  the  house  of  Mary."  And  then  the 
watchmen  of  Bethlehem  went  into  Jerusalem,  and  they 
told  the  elders  and  the  priests  of  all  the  signs  and  won- 
ders which  they  had  seen  take  place  through  the  holy 
woman  Mary.  And  when  the  watchmen  and  the  men 
of  Bethlehem  had  come  and  related  unto  the  people 
(Fol.  58a,  col.  3)  all  the  signs  and  wonders  which  they 
had  seen  wrought  before  the  holy  woman,  they  would 
not  believe  them  until  messengers  had  been  sent  to  find 
out  what  had  happened  to  her.  And  when  these  had 
come  thither  they  saw  the  gates  of  heaven  opened,  and 
the  angels  of  God  descending  and  coming  into  the 
house  of  Mary,  and  also  the  lightnings  and  the  thun- 
ders going  forth  from  the  house  of  the  holy  woman, 
and  [the  angels]  going  up  to  heaven.  And  with  this 
they  saw  the  disciples  ministering  to  the  holy  woman. 
And  they  also  saw  the  clouds  coming  from  heaven  and 
dropping  dew  and  storm  upon  Bethlehem.  And  they 
also  saw  the  stars  coming  down  from  heaven  and  bow- 
ing low  before  the  holy  woman  Mary.  And  they  also 
saw  the  sun  and  moon,  which  illumine  all  the  world, 
come  down  from  heaven,  and  bow  low  before  Mary. 
And  they  also  saw  the  holy  woman  (Fol.  58b,  col.  i) 
lying  upon  her  couch,  and  the  Angel  Gabriel  standing 

182 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

at  her  pillow  and  Michael  at  her  foot-cushion  ;  and 
there  were  lamps  in  their  hands,  and  they  were  making 
the  holy  woman  to  rejoice. 

XV  {sic).  And  then  they  saw  the  Apostles  standing 
by  the  couch  in  fear  and  trembling,  and  stretching  out 
their  hands  to  heaven,  and  Peter  and  John  receiving  the 
tears  of  the  holy  woman  on  their  apparel.  And  they 
also  saw  the  perfume  and  smoke  of  the  incense  rolling 
out  from  the  foundations  of  that  house  like  the  waves 
of  the  sea,  and  the  countless  hosts  of  the  angels  stand- 
ing in  fear  and  trembling  and  ascribing  glory  to  God, 
Who  had  dwelt  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  And 
they  spread  out  their  wings  and  bowed  down  to  the 
holy  and  blessed  Mary,  the  Mother  of  Christ,  and  they 
were  crying  out  and  saying  with  a  loud  (Fol.  58b, 
col.  2)  voice,  "  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  blessed  among 
women  ;  and  blessed  be  He  Who  was  born  of  thee,  our 
Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ."  And  the  hosts  of 
heaven  sang  hymns,  and  the  beings  of  the  spirit  re- 
joiced, and  the  mighty  Powers  ascribed  blessing  to  the 
holy  woman  Mary.  And  they  were  not  able  to  draw 
nigh  unto  her  because  of  the  intensity  of  the  light  that 
rose  up  on  her.  And  they  also  saw  on  her  right  hand 
and  on  her  left  those  who  were  broken  [in  spirit]  and 
those  who  were  in  tribulation  coming  to  the  house  of 
the  blessed  and  holy  woman,  and  crying  out  and  saying, 
"  O  holy  and  blessed  Mary,  have  mercy  upon  us,  show 
compassion  to  us,  and  heal  us  by  means  of  thy  prayer 
and  supplication  "  ;  and  [they  saw  also]  that  they  were 
healed  straightaway  of  their  sicknesses.  And  other  sick 
folk  were  coming,  and  were  taking  the  mud  of  her 
house  and  smearing  it  over  their  bodies,  and  they  were 
healed  of  all  their  sicknesses.  And  thus  Mary  wrought 
signs  and  (Fol.  58b,  col.  3)  wonders  innumerable.  He 
Who  was  born  of  her  came  down  from  heaven,  became 
incarnate,  and  made  her  the  house  of  the  Sanctuary  of 
His  glory.   And  then  the  men  of  Bethlehem  ascribed 

183 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

praise  to  the  holy  Lady  Mary.  And  moreover,  women 
came  unto  her  from  every  country,  from  Rome  and 
Alexandria,  and  the  daughters  of  kings  and  governors, 
and  they  brought  gifts  and  bowed  low  before  Mary, 
and  they  confessed  Christ  Who  was  born  of  her.  And 
they  said  unto  her,  "  Tell  us  how  Christ  was  born  of 
thee  without  the  seed  of  man  "  ;  and  Mary  told  them 
everything  that  had  happened  to  her.  And  when  they 
were  going  to  return  to  their  own  country  she  blessed 
them,  and  gave  them  beautiful  smelling  perfume,  so 
that  their  kinsfolk  might  believe  that  the  story  of  the 
holy  woman  Mary  was  well-founded.  And  there  came 
unto  her  other  women  whose  hands  had  been  made  use- 
less by  a  devil,  and  they  said  unto  her,  "  Have  compas- 
sion upon  us,  O  holy  and  (Fol.  59a,  col.  i)  pure  woman, 
and  heal  us  of  our  sickness."  And  the  holy  woman 
prayed  over  them,  and  blessed  them,  and  straightway 
they  were  healed  of  their  sickness.  And  again,  there 
came  unto  her  a  woman  from  Egypt  who  had  a  violent 
fever,  and  she  bowed  low  before  Mary,  and  straightway 
she  was  healed  of  her  fever.  And  again,  there  came 
unto  Mary  a  woman  whose  right  eye  a  devil  had 
blinded,  and  she  made  supplication  unto  her,  and  said, 
"  Have  mercy  upon  me,  O  my  Lady,  and  lay  thine  hand 
upon  my  eye  "  ;  and  she  was  healed  in  that  same  hour. 
And  again,  there  came  unto  her  a  woman  whom  a  mul- 
titude of  devils  were  dragging  about,  and  she  cried  out 
with  a  loud  cry  to  Mary,  and  said, "  Heal  me,  my  Lady." 
[And  Mary]  said,  "  I  adjure  you  in  the  Name  of  my 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  go  forth  from  this  soul,  and  not  to 
afflict  her  again."  And  from  that  moment  (Fol.  59a, 
col.  2)  the  devils  went  out  from  that  woman,  and  they 
cried  out,  saying,  "  What  have  we  to  do  with  thee,  O 
Mary,  the  Mother  of  Christ  ?  Behold,  we  have  been 
scattered  about  in  every  country  through  the  Great 
Power  of  Him  that  was  born  of  thee.  For  we  are  un- 
able to  stand  up  before  Him,  and  He  hath  made  us 

184 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  a7id  Death 

descend  into  the  depths  of  the  earth,  and  thou,  like 
Him,  hast  driven  us  away  from  this  soul  by  thy  prayer." 
And  thereupon  Mary  made  them  to  descend  into 
the  depths  of  the  sea.  And  Safron,  king  of  Egypt, 
whose  .  .  .  ^  a  lion,  had  seized  (i.e.  clawed), cried  out  and 
said,  "  Heal  me,  O  my  Lady,  by  thy  prayer."  And  she 
stretched  out  her  hands  and  laid  them  on  his  head,  and 
he  was  healed  of  his  sickness  in  that  same  hour. 

XIV  {sic).  And  then  a  great  multitude  of  sick  and 
diseased  people  gathered  together  in  Jerusalem,  and 
they  enquired  and  said,  (Fol.  59a,  col.  3)  "  Where  is  the 
blessed  woman  Mary  ?  "  And  they  answered  and  said, 
"  She  is  not  here,  she  dwelleth  in  Bethlehem."  And 
many  sick  folk,  and  innumerable  people  came  to  her, 
and  they  fell  down  on  their  faces  at  the  door  of  Mary's 
house,  and  they  cried  out  with  a  loud  voice,  saying, 
"  O  holy  Mary,  Mother  of  God,  have  compassion  upon 
us,  and  heal  us,  and  do  not  suffer  us  to  be  put  to  shame." 
And  when  Mary  heard  their  voices,  she  prayed  over 
them  and  said,  "  O  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  Thy  great 
majesty  receive  their  prayer  and  hearken  unto  my 
petition,  and  heal  Thou  those  sick  and  suffering  souls 
who  have  come  unto  Thee  "  ;  and  they  were  all  healed 
straightway.  Now  the  number  of  those  people  was  two 
thousand  and  eight,  besides  women  and  children  ;  and 
there  was  great  praising  in  all  the  country  of  Bethle- 
hem. And  at  that  moment  the  magistrates  of  Jerusalen 
and  the  elders  of  (Fol.  59b,  col.  i)  Bethlehem  came,  and 
they  called  the  men  who  had  been  healed  by  Mary,  and 
asked  them  and  said  unto  them,  "  Tell  us  what  Mary 
did  unto  you."  And  they  answered  and  said  unto  them, 
"  When  Mary  prayed  over  us  great  power  went  forth 
from  her,  and  we  were  healed." 

XV  (izV).  And  when  the  Jews  heard  these  things 
from  them,  their  eyes  became  dark,  and  their  priests 
were  afraid,  and  their  magistrates  were  terrified  ;   and 

^  demdkh  means  literally,  wine  measure,  cup,  bowl. 

l8q 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

they  said  with  a  loud  voice,  "  Behold,  great  sorrow,  and 
tribulation,  and  destruction  have  come  upon  us  through 
Mary  "  ;  and  there  were  some  who  said,  "  From  this 
moment  cast  forth  Mary  from  Bethlehem.  She  shall 
not  dwell  among  you."  And  when  the  evening  of  that 
day  had  come,  the  Jews  arrived  at  the  house  of  Mary 
in  order  to  lay  hold  upon  the  disciples  and  Mary.  But 
when  they  arrived  at  her  house  they  could  not  enter 
therein,  for  at  that  moment  the  gates  of  heaven  were 
opened,  and  a  great  light  shot  forth,  (Fol.  59b,  col.  2) 
and  then  they  returned  to  the  magistrates  and  priests, 
and  told  them  what  had  happened.  And  they  com- 
manded the  captain  to  go  with  thirty  men,  and  to  seize 
Mary  and  the  disciples.  And  at  that  moment  the  Holy 
Ghost  descended  upon  the  Apostles,  and  He  said  unto 
them,  "  Behold,  a  captain  with  thirty  soldiers  hath 
come  from  Jerusalem  to  seize  you.  And  now,  rise  up, 
get  ye  forth  from  this  place,  and  fear  not*  Behold,  I 
will  make  you  to  pass  between  heaven  and  earth,  and 
no  man  shall  be  able  to  see  you,  for  the  might  of  the 
Son  of  God  shall  be  with  you."  And  then  the  Apostles 
went  forth  bearing  Mary's  couch,  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
came,  and  caught  them  up,  and  brought  them  to  Jeru- 
salem. And  when  the  captain  arrived  and  his  soldiers 
and  went  into  the  house  they  found  there  no  one  what- 
soever. And  they  were  exceedingly  angry,  and  they 
said  unto  (Fol.  59b,  col.  3)  the  men  of  the  house,  *'  Did 
not  ye  come  to  the  magistrates  and  priests,  and  inform 
them  that  the  disciples  of  Jesus  were  with  Mary,  with 
great  glory,  and  that  the  angels  of  God  were  ascending 
to  heaven  and  descending  to  Mary's  house  ?  And  now, 
come  ye  to  the  magistrates  and  the  priests,  and  tell 
them  everything  ye  wish."  And  they  departed  with 
them,  and  they  came  into  Jerusalem,  and  told  the 
magistrates  and  the  priests,  saying,  "  We  came  to  Beth- 
lehem, and  we  found  nobody  there — neither  Mary  nor 
the  disciples."  And  the  priests  said  unto  them,  "  Do  ye 

186 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

not  know  that  the  disciples  worked  the  bewitchment  of 
your  eyes  so  that  ye  might  not  see  [them]  ?  But  now 
that  ye  have  heard  certain  news  of  them,  seize  them  and 
bring  them  unto  us." 

XVI.  And  five  days  afterwards  the  men  of  Jeru- 
salem saw  the  angels  (Fol.  6oa,  col.  i)  of  God  coming 
into  and  going  out  from  the  house  of  Mary.  And  be- 
hold, her  neighbours  gathered  together,  and  they  said, 
"  O  holy  Mary,  Mother  of  God,  we  put  our  hope  in 
thee  that  thou  wilt  beseech  Christ  to  send  unto  us 
salvation  from  Him."  And  on  the  morrow  the  priests 
sent  and  called  her  neighbours,  and  said  unto  them, 
"  What  are  these  cries  and  noises  which  we  hear  from 
you  ?  "  And  they  answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  Be- 
hold, Mary,  the  Mother  of  God,  hath  returned  to  her 
house,  and  the  angels  of  God  are  singing  praises  before 
her."  And  then  the  priests  went  to  the  governor  and 
said  unto  him,  "  Behold  now,  there  is  a  great  earth- 
quake, and  murder,  and  revolt  in  Jerusalem  because  of 
Mary."  And  the  governor  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  "  What  then  shall  we  do  that  the  men  of  Jeru- 
salem may  be  quieted  (?)  ?  "  And  they  said  unto  him, 
"  Let  us  take  fire  and  wood  and  burn  her  house  where 
she  is."  And  the  governor  answered  and  said  unto  them, 
"  Do  what  ye  wish."  And  then  (Fol.  6oa,  col.  2)  the 
men  of  Jerusalem  took  fire  and  wood  to  burn  down  the 
house  wherein  Mary  dwelt.  And  when  they  had  come 
to  the  house  wherein  Mary  lived,  they  began  to  burn 
the  doors  of  her  house,  and  straightway  the  angels  of 
God  came  down,  and  beat  upon  the  faces  of  the  men 
with  their  wings,  and  they  burned  up  all  those  who 
approached  the  doors  of  her  house,  and  many  people 
died  there,  and  there  was  great  fear  in  Jerusalem.  And 
when  the  governor  saw  this  miracle,  he  stretched  out 
his  hands  to  heaven,  and  said,  "  Glory  be  to  God  Who 
was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  I  will  thank  Him,  and 
praise  Him,  and  worship  Him  for  ever."   And  on  the 

187 


The  History  of  the  VirgtJi  Mary 

following  day  the  governor  sent  and  gathered  together 
the  priests  and  all  the  men  of  Jerusalem,  and  he  said 
unto  them,  "  O  ye  evil  men  w^ho  crucified  Christ,  Who 
came  down  from  heaven  for  the  salvation  of  all  the 
world,  I  believe  in  Him,  for  I  am  not  [one]  of  you,  and 
I  do  not  belong  to  the  people  (Fol.  6oa,  col.  3)  of  your 
country,  for  it  was  the  Emperor  Tiberius  who  made  me 
governor  over  you  because  of  the  wickedness  of  your 
deeds.  Behold,  henceforth  I  command  you  that  no 
man  shall  approach  the  house  of  Mary  the  twofold 
Virgin,  the  Mother  of  God." 

XVII.  And  then  there  rose  up  a  certain  man  who 
was  a  believer,  and  whose  name  was  Caleb — now  he 
believed  in  Christ — and  he  spake  unto  the  governor 
privily,  and  said  unto  him,  "  O  governor,  make  them 
to  swear  by  the  Living  God,  Who  brought  the  children 
of  Israel  out  from  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  by  the  Holy 
Law  of  Moses,  that  they  will  not  swear  falsely  ;  but  let 
them  speak  what  is  the  truth,  and  let  them  say  truly 
whether  Christ,  Who  was  born  of  Mary  the  prophetess, 
is  the  Son  of  God,  or  a  man  who  was  born  through 
carnal  union.  For  behold,  I  know  that  they  are  wise 
men,  and  are  able  to  understand  the  word  of  the  Book." 
And  then  (Fol.  60b,  col.  i)  the  governor  rose  up  and 
seated  himself  upon  a  high  throne,  and  he  commanded 
[his  men]  to  gather  together  all  the  people  of  Jeru- 
salem. And  he  made  them  to  swear  the  oath  which 
Caleb  had  uttered  to  him,  and  he  said  unto  them,  "  O 
children  of  Israel,  I  adjure  you  by  the  Holy  Law,  that 
ye  separate  those  in  your  midst  who  believe  that  Christ 
was  born  of  Mary  from  those  who  do  not  believe." 

XVIII.  And  when  they  heard  this  they  separated 
themselves  each  from  his  fellow  in  great  fear.  And  the 
governor  answered  and  said  unto  them,  "  Do  ye  believe 
in  Christ  Who  was  born  of  Mary,  or  not  ?  "  And  the 
elders  said  unto  the  governor,  "  We  believe  in  Him, 
that  He  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Maker  of  the  heavens. 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

and  of  the  earth,  and  of  everything  that  is  in  them." 
And  the  others  who  did  not  believe  said  unto  the 
governor,  "  Behold,  we  know  that  the  coming  of  Christ 
is  not  near."  And  those  who  loved  Christ  answered  and 
said,  "  Did  not  (Fol.  6ob,  col.  2)  our  father  Adam  com- 
mand his  son  Seth  before  his  death,  and  say  unto  him. 
Behold,  sacrifices  of  [the]  offering  shall  be  set  in  the 
treasury  of  the  Cave  ?  The  men  of  wisdom  shall  bring 
gold,  and  frankincense,  and  myrrh  before  the  Son  of 
God,  Who  is  to  be  born  in  Bethlehem."  And  those 
who  denied  Christ  and  did  not  believe  said,  "  Is  Christ 
greater  with  God  than  Abraham  who  opened  the 
heavens  and  held  converse  with  Him  ?  "  And  those 
who  loved  Christ  answered  and  said,  "Assuredly  ye  are 
deniers  who  are  without  knowledge.  But  we  believe 
and  we  know  well  that  He  Who  was  born  of  Mary,  the 
Creator  of  all  the  world,  was  Creator  before  Abraham 
was  in  the  womb  ;  Christ  existed  before  all  creation." 
And  the  deniers  said,  "  Is  this  Christ  in  Whom  ye  be- 
lieve more  honourable  than  Isaac,  who  was  a  fair  offer- 
ing unto  God  ?  "  (Fol.  60b,  col.  3)  And  the  lovers  of 
Christ  said,  "  If  Isaac  had  been  offered  up  he  might  be 
called  an  offering,  but  he  was  only  a  symbol  of  the  Son, 
whereas  Christ,  Who  was  crucified  on  the  wood  of  the 
Cross,  was  an  offering  for  the  v/hole  world,  and  in  Him 
they  make  offering  to  God."  The  deniers  of  Christ, 
who  did  not  believe  in  Him,  said,  "  Is  Christ  greater 
than  Jacob  who  saw  the  Ladder  of  heaven,  and  the 
angels  of  God  ascending  and  descending  on  that 
Ladder  ?  "  The  lovers  of  Christ  said,  "  The  angels  and 
the  Ladder  which  Jacob  saw  between  heaven  and  earth 
are  a  prophecy  concerning  Christ."  And  the  deniers, 
who  did  not  believe,  said,  "  Is  Christ  greater  than 
Elijah  who  went  up  to  heaven,  and  with  all  of  whose 
works  God  was  well  pleased  ?  "  The  lovers  of  Christ 
said,  "  Elijah  [went  up]  into  the  cloud  which  is  under 
heaven,  to  the  place  where  the  sun  and  moon  appear, 

189 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

(Fol.  6ia,  col.  i)  but  there  was  no  one  who  worshipped 
Elijah  in  the  place  where  he  went  except  Elisha  his  dis- 
ciple. But  after  Christ  went  up  above  the  heavens  all 
created  beings  worshipped  Him,  both  those  who  were 
in  the  heavens  and  those  who  were  on  the  earth."  And 
the  deniers  who  did  not  beheve  said,  "  Is  Christ  greater 
than  Moses  who  drowned  Pharaoh  and  his  host  in  the 
sea,  and  who  made  the  water  to  stand  up  like  a  wall  on 
this  side  and  on  that,  and  who  delivered  the  children  of 
Israel  ?  "  And  the  lovers  of  Christ  said,  "  Did  not 
Christ  rebuke  the  devils  and  drown  them  in  the  sea  ? 
And  again.  He  stretched  out  His  hands,  and  saved 
Simon  Peter  from  the  water  of  the  sea.  For  He  had 
dominion  over  all  created  things,  both  those  that  were 
on  dry  land  and  those  that  were  on  the  water."  And 
when  the  governor  heard  this  he  believed  on  Christ, 
and  he  had  the  forty  men  who  did  not  believe  scourged 
with  cords, 

(Fol.  6ia,  col.  2)  XIX.  And  when  the  evening  of  that 
day  had  come,  and  the  cock  crew,  the  governor  went 
to  Mary  with  his  two  sons ;  now  one  of  the  governor's 
sons  was  sick.  And  when  he  arrived,  he  knocked  at  the 
door  of  Mary's  house,  and  one  of  the  maidens  who 
ministered  unto  Mary  went  out,  and  the  governor  said 
unto  her,  "  Speak  to  the  holy  woman  on  my  behalf." 
And  when  the  holy  woman  heard  she  commanded  her 
to  open  her  door.  And  when  the  governor  entered  her 
presence,  he  wept  and  said  unto  her,  "  O  Mother  of 
God,  peace  be  unto  thee,  and  peace  be  unto  Christ  Who 
was  born  of  thee,  and  peace  be  unto  the  heavens  which 
carry  the  throne  of  His  power.  Behold,  from  this  time 
forth,  by  heaven,  I  will  worship  thee,  and  I  will  believe 
on  Christ  Who  was  born  of  thee.  Do  thou  stretch  out 
thy  right  hand  and  bless  me,  O  Mother  of  the  Light, 
and  pray  for  my  son  that  he  may  be  healed  of  his  sick- 
ness. And  pray  thou  for  the  men  of  Romeya  (Romiya), 
and  pray  also  for  me,  that  I  may  go  forth  from  this 

190 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

(FoL  6ia,  col.  3)  city  in  peace,  and  depart  and  see  my 
kinsfolk  safe  and  well."  And  then  the  holy  woman 
stretched  out  her  hand,  and  blessed  him,  and  said  unto 
him,  "  Sit  down  here."  And  when  the  governor  saw  the 
Apostles  standing  before  Mary,  he  prostrated  himself 
at  their  feet,  and  said  unto  them,  "  Peace  be  unto  you, 
O  ye  holy  ones  of  God,  Who  hath  chosen  you  to  preach 
in  His  Name  in  all  the  world."  And  then  the  Apostles 
blessed  the  governor,  and  straightway  his  son  was 
healed,  and  he  departed  to  Romeya,  and  related  unto 
many  everything  that  he  had  seen  with  Mary.  And 
there  were  there  the  disciples  of  Paul,  and  they  wrote 
down  all  the  signs  and  wonders  that  took  place  through 
those  who  called  upon  the  name  of  the  holy  woman 
Mary. 

XX.  And  when  the  morning  had  come,  the  Holy 
Spirit  said  unto  the  Apostles,  "  Take  Mary,  and  carry 
her  away  out  of  Jerusalem,  and  bring  her  along  the  road 
that  (Fol.  6ib,  col.  i)  leadeth  to  the  river  to  the  place 
towards  the  east,  where  there  are  caves  and  caverns." 
And  they  took  her  and  seated  her  upon  that  couch,  and 
they  sang  hymns  over  her  until  the  day  broke  ;  and  when 
the  day  had  come  they  took  Mary  out  from  Jerusalem. 
And  then  many  Jews  gathered  together,  and  they  said 
unto  Tafonya,  "  We  know  that  thou  art  a  strong  and 
mighty  man,  now  go,  and  seize  the  couch  of  Mary,  and 
hurl  it  on  the  ground,  and  we  will  burn  her  body  in  the 
fire,  so  that  the  disciples  may  not  imagine  that  they 
have  overcome  the  men  of  Jerusalem." 

XXI.  And  then  Tafonya  rose  up  and  stretched  out 
his  hand  to  break  the  couch  of  Mary,  and  at  that 
moment  the  Angel  of  God  came  down  and  smote  him 
with  a  sword  of  fire,  and  cut  off  his  two  hands  and  armiS 
up  to  the  shoulders,  and  they  were  hanging  upon  the 
couch.  And  then  he  wept  and  cried  to  the  Apostles, 
and  said  unto  (Fol.  6ib,  col.  2)  them,  "  Have  mercy 
upon  me  and  show  compassion  unto  me.  And  do  Thou, 

191 


The  History  of  the  Virg'ni  Mary 

O  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  have  compassion  upon 
me,  according  to  Thy  great  compassion."  And  the 
Apostles  answered  and  said  unto  him,  "  Ask  Mary, 
whose  couch  thou  didst  wish  to  break."  Thereupon 
Tafonya  said,  "  O  Mary,  Mother  of  God,  have  com- 
passion upon  me."  And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto 
Peter,  "  Let  these  limbs,  which  have  been  cut  off  and 
are  lying  upon  the  couch,  be  restored  to  him  in  their 
former  state  and  place."  Then  Peter  took  up  the  two 
arms  which  had  been  cut  off,  and  he  said,  "  In  the 
Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Name  of 
Mary,  the  holy  woman,  get  ye  back  to  your  former 
places  "  ;  and  they  were  healed  straightway.  Then 
Peter  took  up  a  rod  and  gave  it  to  Tafonya,  and  he  said 
unto  him,  "  Go  thou,  and  henceforward  reveal  the 
power  of  the  Son  of  God  before  all  the  Jews,  and  relate 
unto  them  how  the  worker  of  miracles,  (Fol.  6ib,  col.  3) 
Mary,  wrought  a  miracle  on  thy  behalf  (now  they 
hated  Mary  exceedingly),  and  ye  say.  This  woman  hath 
killed  us  during  her  life  [time]  ;  now  we  will  burn  the 
body  of  Mary  in  the  fire."  But  the  deniers  of  Christ 
did  not  know  and  did  not  understand  that  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  would  not  leave  the  body  of  His  Mother 
in  this  world.  Behold  now,  I  will  tell  [the  truth  to] 
you,  O  lovers  of  Christ,  all  who  love  Mary  and  cele- 
brate her  commemoration  and  believe  in  her  Son,  and 
are  not  friends  of  the  Jews — for  if  they  are  they  are 
far  from  the  love  of  Christ.  And  whilst  the  Apostles 
were  singing  hymns  over  Mary  in  the  cave,  the  Holy 
Spirit  spake  and  said  unto  them,  "  On  the  sixth  day  of 
the  month,  on  the  first  day  of  the  week,  the  Angel 
Gabriel  was  sent  to  Mary,  the  Mother  of  God,  and  he 
announced  unto  her  concerning  Him  that  was  to  be 
born  of  her  for  the  salvation  of  all  the  world.  And  on 
the  first  day  of  the  week  the  Lord  (Fol.  62a,  col.  i) 
Christ  was  born  of  Mary  the  Virgin  in  Bethlehem. 
And  also  on  the  first  day  of  the  week  old  men  and 

192 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

young  men  praised  Him.  And  also  on  the  first  day  of 
the  week  our  Lord  rose  from  the  dead.  And  on  the 
first  day  of  the  week  He  will  come  again  to  judge  both 
the  quick  and  the  dead.  And  on  the  first  day  of  the 
week  He  will  come,  together  with  all  the  hosts  of 
heaven.  And  to  those  who  are  on  earth  that  they  may 
make  Mary  to  depart  from  this  world  will  He  show  His 
glory  through  her.  And  on  the  first  dayof  the  week  came 
Eve,  the  mother  of  the  race  of  men,  and  Hanna  the 
mother  of  the  holy  woman  Mary,  and  Elisabeth,  the 
mother  of  John  the  Baptist.  And  they  drew  nigh  to 
Mary,  and  they  bowed  low  at  her  feet  and  they  said, 
Glory  be  to  God,  Who  chose  thee  to  be  for  Him  the 
habitation  of  His  glory." 

XXn.  And  when  Peter  saw  the  disciples  coming  to 
Mary,  he  said  unto  the  women,  "  Remove  her  from 
here."  (Fol.  62a,  col.  2)  And  then  came  Adam  and  Seth 
his  son,  and  Noah  and  Shem,  and  bowed  low  at  the  feet 
of  the  holy  woman.  And  then  came  the  other  fathers, 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  David  the  Prophet, 
and  they  bowed  low  before  Mary.  And  there  came  also 
the  Prophets,  having  in  their  hands  censers,  and  bowed 
down  before  the  blessed  woman.  And  the  heavens 
opened,  and  there  came  forth  therefrom  the  armies  of 
the  angels,  which  were  without  number,  that  they 
might  see  the  departure  of  Mary  from  this  world.  And 
then  came  Enoch,  Moses,  and  Elijah  mounted  upon 
chariots  of  fire,  and  they  stood  up  between  heaven  and 
earth  that  they  might  see  the  descent  of  our  Lord  and 
Redeemer  Jesus  Christ. 

XXH  {sic).  And  then  came  the  Twelve  Hosts  of  the 
Archangels,  and  their  number  was  twelve  times  ten 
thousand.  And  after  this  appeared  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  (Fol.  62a,  col.  3)  sitting  upon  the  chariot  of  the 
Cherubim  and  Seraphim,  and  He  came  unto  Mary. 
And  all  created  beings  thanked  Him,  and  praised  Him, 
and  blessed  Him.  And  He  said  unto  the  holy  woman, 

o  193 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

"  O  Mary  !  "  And  she  answered  and  said  unto  Him, 
"  I  am  here,  my  Lord  and  my  God,  Jesus  Christ."  And 
our  Lord  said  unto  her,  "  Behold  thou  the  glory  that 
hath  been  given  unto  Me  by  the  Great  Father."  And 
Mary  looked  upon  the  glory  which  none  can  describe. 
And  our  Lord  said  unto  her,  "  Henceforth  I  shall  take 
thy  body  into  Paradise,  where  it  shall  dwell  until  the 
Resurrection  of  the  dead,  and  I  will  command  the 
angels  to  minister  unto  thee."  And  then  the  Apostles 
came  to  Mary  and  said  unto  her,  "  O  Mother  of  the 
Light,  pray  thou  for  the  world  wherefrom  thou  art 
going  forth.  And  pray  thou  for  all  those  who  shall  cele- 
brate thy  commemoration,  and  who  shall  offer  up  offer- 
ings in  thy  name.  And  pray  for  all  those  who  believe  in 
God,  Who  sent  His  beloved  Son,  and  dwelt  in  thee." 
(Fol.  62b,  col.  I.) 

XXV  {sic).  And  thereupon  Mary  prayed  and  said, 
"  O  Lord  God,  Who  dwellest  in  the  heavens.  Who  of 
Thine  own  free  will  didst  send  Thy  Son  Jesus  Christ 
and  He  dwelt  in  my  womb,  I  beseech  and  entreat  Thee 
for  all  the  children  of  baptism  who  shall  celebrate  my 
commemoration,  and  make  offerings  to  me.  Hear,  O 
Lord,  their  prayers  and  petitions,  and  remove  from 
them  captivity,  and  slaughter,  and  famine,  and  every 
kind  of  sorrow,  and  barrenness  from  barren  women, 
when  they  make  offerings  to  me.  And  deliver  their 
crops  from  mice,  and  locusts,  and  the  large  wingless 
locust,  and  from  hail,  and  frost,  and  the  little  wingless 
locust.  And  let  those  who  are  under  the  power  of 
devils,  and  are  grievously  sick,  be  healed  in  my  name. 
And  save  Thou  those  who  go  down  into  the  sea  in  ships, 
when  they  call  upon  my  name  from  the  waves  and 
billows  (Fol.  62b,  col.  2)  of  the  sea  and  from  the  vio- 
lence of  the  winds.  And  when  those  who  journey  into 
a  far  country  call  upon  my  name,  do  Thou  bring  them 
back  into  their  city.  And  let  the  crops  of  those  who 
bring  forth  fruit  for  offerings  in  my  name  be  blessed. 

194 


He7^  Persecutio7i  by  the  Priests  a7id  Death 

And  let  all  those  who  celebrate  my  commemoration  be 
blessed  for  ever  and  ever."  Then  our  Lord  answered 
and  said  unto  her,  "  Everything  for  which  thou  hast 
asked  Me  shall  be  given  unto  thee.  And  I  will  have 
mercy  upon  every  one  who  shall  call  upon  thy  name, 
and  I  will  have  compassion  upon  him,  and  will  forgive 
his  sins.  And  for  every  one  who  shall  make  alms  and 
offerings  in  thy  name,  the  odour  and  perfume  thereof 
shall  ascend  to  heaven  before  the  throne  of  My  Father, 
and  before  thy  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  before  the  Holy 
Spirit,  for  ever."  And  all  created  beings  answered  and 
said  "Amen." 

XXIV  {sic).  (Fol.  62b,  col.  3)  And  then  our  Lord 
answered  and  said  unto  Peter,  "  Speak  unto  all  the 
beings  of  heaven  and  command  them  to  sing  hymns  and 
play  instruments  of  music  with  joy  and  gladness  "  ;  and 
at  that  moment  the  soul  of  the  holy  woman  Mary  went 
forth,  and  He  took  it  away  into  the  treasuries  of  the 
Father.  Then  John  stretched  forth  his  hand,  and 
straightened  her,  and  closed  her  eyes ;  and  Peter  and 
Paul  straightened  her  hands,  and  feet,  but  they  did  not 
remove  the  apparel  that  was  upon  her,  for  the  Holy 
Spirit  had  arrayed  her  in  great  light  which  could  not  be 
comprehended.  And  the  Twelve  Apostles  lifted  her  up, 
and  twelve  clouds  of  light  bore  the  Apostles,  and 
brought  them  into  Paradise.  And  there  went  before 
her  Eve  our  mother,  and  Hanna,  the  mother  of  the 
holy  Lady  Mary,  and  Elisabeth,  the  mother  of  John 
the  Baptist.  And  after  them  came  Adam  and  Seth,  and 
Noah  and  Shem  ;  and  after  them  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
(Fol.  63a,  col.  i)  Jacob,  and  David  the  Prophet  ;  and 
after  them  other  prophets,  and  Enoch,  and  Moses,  and 
Elijah  ;  and  after  these  the  chariots  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  And  after  this  the  Twelve  Apostles  went  forth 
and  brought  the  holy  woman  Mary  into  the  Garden  of 
Delight,  and  they  laid  her  down  there. 

XL  {sic).  Then  all  the  created  beings  turned  and 


The  History  of  the  Virgin.  Mary 

went  back  to  their  habitations ;  and  the  Apostles  went 
to  Mount  Sinai,  being  carried  thither  upon  the  clouds, 
and  there  was  not  one  of  them  left  behind.  And  they 
prayed,  saying,  "  We  praise  Thee,  O  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  because  Thou  hast  gathered  us  together  from 
the  ends  of  the  world,  and  hast  held  us  worthy  to  re- 
ceive the  blessing  of  Mary  Thy  mother,  before  she  de- 
parted from  this  world.  And  as  Thou  didst  speak  with 
Thy  holy  mouth  and  say  unto  us,  '  Behold,  I  will  give 
you  power  to  tread  upon  vipers  and  scorpions  ;  and 
(Fol.  63a,  col.  2)  ye  shall  sit  upon  twelve  thrones,  and 
shall  judge  the  Twelve  Tribes  of  Israel,  who  would  not 
believe  in  Thee  and  in  Mary  Thy  mother."  And  when 
the  Apostles  had  finished  praying,  they  said,  "  Let  us 
write  down  everything  that  we  have  seen,  and  heard, 
and  known,  concerning  the  departure  of  the  blessed 
Mary  from  this  world.  The  departure  of  the  pure  and 
holy  Lady  Mary  took  place  in  the  three  hundred  and 
forty-fifth  year.  And  we  ordain  and  command  that 
men  shall  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  the  holy  and 
blessed  Mary  three  times  yearly,  the  first  is  the  day  of 
her  commemoration,  the  [second  is  the]  following  day, 
and  [the  third  is]  Christmas  Day.  On  the  day  whereon 
one  shall  celebrate  her  commemoration  he  shall  be  de- 
livered from  the  locust  that  is  hidden  in  the  ground, 
and  his  crop  shall  be  blessed.  Moreover,  by  her  prayer 
kings  shall  be  delivered  from  murder  (or,  battle),  and 
there  shall  be  no  enemy  among  them,  and  the  blood  of 
men  shall  not  be  poured  out  on  the  earth."  And  the 
Apostles  also  commanded  that  men  should  celebrate 
her  commemoration  in  the  month  of  lyar,  on  the  day 
of  her  death,  for  (Fol.  63a,  col.  3)  through  her  prayer 
the  birds  of  the  air  shall  not  devour  the  fruit  of  the 
earth,  nor  the  worms,  nor  the  black  worm,  nor  the 
locust,  and  there  shall  not  be  a  famine  among  men. 

XLL  And   then   the   Holy   Spirit   said   unto   the 
Apostles,  "  I  will  declare  unto  you  the  country  whereto 

196 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

God  wisheth  to  send  the  punishment  of  His  wrath  ; 
and  He  will  bring  the  locust  to  that  country  as  it  were 
in  the  twinkling  of  the  eye."  And  for  this  reason  the 
Apostles  commanded  men  in  each  month  of  lyar  to 
perform  her  covenant,  and  to  pray  to  God  to  be  de- 
livered from  tribulation.  And  the  Apostles  also  com- 
manded men  to  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  Mary 
on  the  i6th  (or  17th)  day  of  Nahasse,  for  the  sake  of 
the  vineyard  and  the  flowering  vines  and  the  fruit- 
bearing  trees.  And  the  Apostles  also  commanded  those 
who  are  willing  to  give  a  gift,  and  to  present  in  the 
evening  pure  flour  of  wheat.  And  a  watch  (or,  custody) 
shall  be  kept  over  it  in  the  church  until  the  dawn,  and 
the  priests  shall  pray  over  it,  (Fol.  63b,  col.  i)  saying, 
"  O  Mother  of  God  Most  High,  hear  thou  the  prayer 
of  those  who  commemorate  thy  name,  and  accept  this 
offering  which  they  bring  unto  thee."  And  whilst  they 
are  praying  in  this  wise,  Mary,  the  Mother  of  the  Light, 
shall  come,  and  shall  bless  this  offering,  and  those  who 
havebroughtit  toher,and  those  who  are  changed  thereby 
for  ever  and  ever.  And  when  the  Apostles  had  finished 
this  matter  a  voice  came  unto  them  from  heaven,  say- 
ing, *'  Let  each  one  of  you  take  a  copy  of  the  com- 
memoration of  Mary,  and  return  to  his  own  country." 
And  then  chariots  of  clouds  came  and  caught  up  each 
of  them,  and  brought  each  of  them  into  his  own  coun- 
try ;  and  those  who  were  dead  returned  to  their  graves. 
XXVI  {sic).  And  after  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  had 
come  to  Mary  in  the  Garden,  He  (Fol.  63b,  col.  2)  said 
unto  her,  "  Behold  thou  the  good  things  which  God 
hath  prepared  for  those  who  love  Him."  And  then  she 
lifted  up  her  holy  eyes  and  saw  the  habitations  of  the 
saints  and  their  exceedingly  great  beauties,  and  the 
saints  dwelt  therein  in  great  happiness.  And  she  also 
saw  the  habitations  of  the  martyrs  with  their  crowns  on 
their  heads ;  and  some  of  them  exhaled  a  sweet  per- 
fume, and  from  some  of  the  trees  there  went  forth  the 

197 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

scent  of  flowers.  And  then  our  Lord  Jesus  plucked  some 
of  the  fruits  of  those  trees,  and  gave  them  unto  Mary, 
and  said  unto  her,  "Ascend  that  thou  mayest  see  what 
is  in  the  heavens."  And  the  holy  woman  went  up  and 
saw  the  water  which  is  above  the  third  heaven,  and 
above  it  was  the  heavenly  Jerusalem.  And  the  Lord 
commanded  the  sun  to  stand  still  in  the  door  of  heaven, 
and  the  light  thereof  came  into  the  Garden  ;  the  foun- 
dations of  which  are  in  the  earth,  and  its  walls  reach 
(Fol.  63b,  col.  3)  up  to  heaven.  And  from  it  there  went 
forth  four  rivers,  Ifoson,  and  Goyon  (Nile),  and  Tigris, 
and  Euphrates.  Now  when  the  Flood  came  upon  the 
earth  the  might  of  God  did  not  permit  heaven  to  raise 
up  the  Garden  greatly.  And  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  sat 
upon  the  throne  of  a  chariot  of  light  above  the  sun,  and 
Mary  saw  the  storehouses  of  God,  the  storehouse  of 
the  snow  and  ice,  the  storehouse  of  the  dew  and  the 
storm,  the  storehouse  of  the  cold  and  the  rain,  and  the 
storehouse  of  the  lightning  and  the  thunder.  And  she 
also  saw  the  places  where  were  all  kinds  of  beautiful 
things,  and  the  place  where  Elijah  stood,  and  he  was 
praying  in  the  forefront  of  heaven.  And  she  saw  the 
second  heaven  also,  and  the  angels  with  their  wings 
spread  out,  and  their  eyes  were  turned  upwards,  and 
they  ceased  not  from  reciting  words  of  praise,  and  they 
said,  "  Holy,  Holy,  Holy,  God  of  (Fol.  64a,  col.  i) 
Hosts."  And  she  also  saw  in  the  third  heaven  twelve 
Mansions,  and  in  them  were  the  Twelve  Apostles.  And 
each  Apostle  stood  in  one  gate,  with  hosts  and  armies  of 
angels  ascribing  praise  [to  God].  And  in  the  largest  gate 
was  the  heavenly  Jerusalem.  And  in  that  place  she  saw 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  the  Prophet  David 
standing,  and  worshipping  the  Great  King  Jesus  Christ. 
And  then  she  went  in  and  saw  the  heavenly  Jerusalem. 
And  when  she  came  to  the  first  gate  the  angels  wor- 
shipped her.  And  in  the  second  gate  Surafil  worshipped 
her.   And  in  the  third  gate  the  Cherubim  worshipped 

198 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

her.  And  in  the  fourth  gate  the  hosts  of  the  Powers 
worshipped  her.  And  in  the  fifth  gate  the  lightnings 
and  the  thunder  worshipped  her.  And  in  the  sixth  gate 
the  angels  cried  out  before  her,  saying,  "  Holy,  Holy, 
Holy,  God  (Fol.  64a,  col.  2)  of  Hosts."  And  in  the 
seventh  gate  the  lights  of  fire  worshipped  her.  And  in 
the  eighth  gate  the  rains,  and  the  dew,  and  the  mists 
worshipped  her.  And  in  the  ninth  gate  Michael  and 
Gabriel  worshipped  her.  And  in  the  tenth  gate  all  the 
splendours  of  the  sun  and  the  moon  and  the  stars  wor- 
shipped her.  And  in  the  eleventh  gate  all  the  Apostles 
praised  her  and  worshipped  her.  And  in  the  twelfth 
gate  all  the  powers  (or,  hosts)  of  God  worshipped  her, 
and  there  she  saw  Him  Who  was  born  of  her.  In  this 
wise  did  the  entrance  of  Mary  into  the  heavenly  Jeru- 
salem take  place,  and  at  that  moment  she  bowed  down 
before  God  the  Father.  And  then  the  holy  woman  saw 
the  Holy  Father,  and  the  Holy  Son,  and  the  Holy 
Spirit,  the  Paraclete,  and  the  Father  was  being  praised 
by  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  by  the  Father 
and  by  the  Son.  And  then  Jesus  Christ  showed  Mary 
the  hidden  (Fol.  64a,  col.  3)  mysteries,  which  the  eye 
hath  not  seen,  nor  the  ear  heard  of,  [for]  the  heart  of 
man  hath  not  been  able  to  conceive  what  God  hath 
prepared  for  and  will  give  unto  those  who  love  Him 
and  believe  in  His  Name.  And  at  the  Last  Day  He  will 
make  them  to  see  the  joy  that  is  never-ending.  And  our 
Lord  also  showed  her  the  place  wherein  Enoch  prayeth. 
XXXHL  And  then  Mary  lifted  up  her  eyes  and  saw 
the  abode  of  [beings]  innumerable,  and  they  shone  with 
exceedingly  bright  light,  and  there  went  forth  there- 
from the  odour  of  sweetly  perfumed  incense,  and  the 
sweet  sound  of  a  beautiful  trumpet  was  heard  in  those 
habitations ;  and  multitudes  of  men  and  women  were 
standing  in  them.  And  then  Mary  said  unto  Him, 
"  Tell  me,  O  my  Lord  and  God,  who  are  those  who 
dwell  in  this  habitation  ?  "    Our  Lord  answered  and 

199 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

said  unto  her,  "  They  are  the  righteous  and  the  good. 
Behold,  the  light  shineth  upon  them  because  of  their 
greatness,  (Fol.  64b,  col.  i)  and  they  await  joy  and  glad- 
ness at  the  Last  Day."  And  she  also  saw  the  country  of 
darkness,  whereout  go  smoke  and  a  foetid  smell,  and  a 
mighty  flame  of  fire  blazed  therein  ;  and  multitudes  of 
men  and  women  were  standing  facing  that  country  of 
darkness,  and  they  were  weeping  and  wailing.  And 
Mary  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  Tell  me,  O  my 
Lord,  who  are  these  that  are  standing  facing  the  coun- 
try of  darkness  ?  "  And  the  Lord  answered  and  said 
unto  her,  "  This  is  the  country  of  darkness.  These  who 
are  standing  in  it  are  the  sinners  who  are  awaiting  the 
punishment  that  is  prepared  for  them.  Moreover, there 
shall  be  cast  into  this  fire  all  those  who  have  refused  to 
perform  My  commandment."  And  then  our  Lady 
Mary  heard  the  voices  of  the  righteous,  saying,"Praise 
be  unto  Thee,  O  our  Lord  and  God,  Jesus  Christ,  Who 
in  return  for  (Fol.  64b,  col.  2)  very  little  dost  reward 
greatly  those  who  call  upon  Thee  and  believe  in  Thee." 
And  when  Mary  heard  the  voices  of  the  righteous  her 
mind  was  relieved  and  she  rejoiced.  And  again  she 
heard  the  cries  and  the  wailings  of  the  sinners  who 
stood  away  in  the  country  of  darkness,  saying,  "  Have 
mercy  upon  us,  have  compassion  upon  us,  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  when  Thou  comest  to  judge  the  living 
and  the  dead."  And  when  Mary,  the  mother  of  mercy, 
heard  this  she  was  exceedingly  sorrowful,  and  she  said, 
"  O  my  Lord  and  God,  have  pity  and  compassion  upon 
the  sinners,  and  neglect  not  Thy  handiwork  when  Thou 
comest  to  judge  them,  for  I  have  heard  their  groaning 
and  their  weeping,  and  I  am  sorrowful  on  their 
account." 

XXXL  And  then  our  Lord  took  His  mother  Mary 
and  brought  her  into  the  Garden  of  Joy  with  all  the 
denizens  of  heaven.  And  our  Lady  Mary  told  John  the 
Less  (Fol.  64b,  col.  2)  everything  that  our  Lord  Jesus 

200 


Her  Persecution  by  the  Priests  and  Death 

Christ  had  shown  her.  And  she  said  unto  him,  "  Take 
heed  to  this  matter,  which  thy  Teacher  hath  shown  me, 
until  His  appointed  time  shall  be  revealed  unto  those 
who  celebrate  my  commemoration,  and  call  upon  my 
name.  For  in  the  last  days  sorrow  shall  be  multiplied 
for  men,  and  there  shall  be  slaughter,  and  fear,  and 
famine  through  excess  of  sins  and  evil-doing.  And  in 
that  day  it  shall  increase  upon  the  earth,  and  the 
powers  of  heaven  shall  be  moved,  and  the  days  shall  be 
changed,  and  He  will  make  days  of  signs  and  wonders 
to  appear,  and  calamity  shall  find  men,  and  a  great  sick- 
ness shall  come  upon  them.  And  in  that  day  the  Only 
Son  Jesus  Christ  shall  first  come,  and  neither  faith  nor 
good  deeds  shall  be  found  on  the  earth."  This  is  what 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  revealed  unto  His  Mother  Mary, 
and  His  Mother  Mary  (Fol.  65a,  col.  i)  told  it  to  John 
the  Less.  And  then  our  Lord  said  unto  His  Mother 
Mary,  "  O  blessed  one,  O  blessing,  everyone  who  cal- 
leth  upon  thee  and  celebrateth  thy  commemoration 
shall  be  delivered  from  tribulation."  And  His  Mother 
Mary  answered  and  said  unto  her  beloved  Son,  our 
Lord,  "  Rightly  sayest  Thou,  my  Lord  and  my  God, 
even  as  spake  the  mouth  of  Thy  holy  Father  and  Thine 
own  life-giving  voice.  Every  one  who  hopeth  on  me 
upon  the  earth  shall  be  given  unto  me,  and  everyone 
who  believeth  in  Thee  shall  live  for  ever,  and  shall  in- 
herit the  kingdom  of  heaven  which  Thou  hast  prepared 
for  those  who  love  Thee.  Moreover,  those  who  believe 
in  Thee  and  that  Thou  art  the  Christ  Who  was  born  of 
me  of  Thine  own  free  will  in  the  last  days  for  the  sake 
of  Adam,  Thy  first  creation,  shall  praise  Thy  vivifying 
Name  now,  henceforth,  and  for  ever."  May  He  deliver 
us  from  the  nets  of  the  Enemy  Satan  by  the  might  of 
the  prayer  of  our  Lady  Mary,  (Fol.  65a,  col.  2)  the 
merciful  intercessor  of  Christian  folk  for  ever  and  ever. 


201 


THE  STORY  OF  MARY'S  FLIGHT  TO  MOUNT 
LEBANON,  AND  THE  ACTS  OF  GIGAR, 
GOVERNOR   OF    SYRIA    AND    DOMITIANUS 

[Brit.  Mus.  Orient.  No.  604,  Fol.  112a,  col.  2  if.] 

IN  THE  NAME  OF  THE  FATHER,  AND  OF  THE  SON,  AND  OF 
THE   HOLY  SPIRIT,    ONE   GOD,   WE  BEGIN   TO  WRITE  WITH 

god's  help  THE  STORY  OF  OUR  LADY  THE  VIRGIN  MARY 

HOW  SHE  DISAPPEARED  IN  THE  MOUNTAINS  OF  LEBANON, 
AND   HOW  HEROD  SOUGHT  HER  TO   KILL  HER  INFANT  SON, 

OUR  LORD  AND  REDEEMER  JESUS  CHRIST AND  THE  STORY 

OF  THE  SAINTS  GIGAR,  GOVERNOR  OF  SYRIA,  AND  DOMI- 
TIANUS. 

I.  TT  7HEN  Herod  heard  that  our  Lady  the  Virgin 
VV  Mary  was  with  her  Child  in  the  desert  of 
Bartas  of  Edom,  he  rejoiced  and  was  glad.  And  he  said 
unto  the  nobles  of  his  kingdom,  "  Rise  up  at  dawn,  and 
we  will  surround  the  desert  of  Bartas  "  ;  and  they  said 
unto  him,  "  We  consent."  And  at  midnight  the  Angel 
of  God  appeared  unto  Joseph  in  a  dream,  (Fol.  112a, 
col.  3)  and  said  unto  him,  "  Rise  up  at  dawn,  and  take 
the  Child  and  His  Mother,  and  depart  into  the  moun- 
tains of  Libanos  (Lebanon),  for  Herod  is  seeking  for 
you  "  ;  and  Joseph  did  as  the  Angel  of  God  com- 
manded him.  And  Herod  surrounded  all  the  moun- 
tains of  Lebanon  and  Bartas,  and  sought  for  them,  and 
he  could  not  find  them  among  the  rocks,  or  in  the  holes 
in  the  ground,  or  in  the  dense  growth  of  the  forest. 
And  they  talked  the  matter  over  together  and  they  said, 
"  What  hath  become  of  them  ?  Hath  the  earth  swal- 
lowed them  up  ?  "  And  Herod  said  unto  him  that  told 
him  [this],  "  Why  dost  thou  mock  me  ?  "  And  he  who 
told  hijn  said  unto  him,  "  O  king,  live  for  ever,  and  may 

202 


Virgin  Marys  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

thy  kingdom  endure  for  ever  !  Three  days  ago  we 
found  Mary  and  Joseph  on  the  day  of  their  dwelling 
together,  and  they  were  rejoicing  and  making  very 
merry,  and  they  were  like  unto  men  who  were  drunk 
with  wine.  Now  I  used  to  know  them  in  times  gone  by 
before  a  son  had  been  born  to  them."  And  Herod  said 
unto  him,  (Fol.  112b,  col.  i)  "How  camest  thou  to 
know  them  ?  Are  they  kinsfolk  of  thine  ?  "  And  the 
man  said  unto  him,  "  O  king,  they  are  not  kinsfolk  of 
mine,  for  they  are  sorcerers.  And  I  know  nothing  about 
the  practice  of  magic,  and  I  am  wholly  unable  to  make 
incantations  and  to  work  enchantments  as  they  do." 
And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "  What  kind  of  magic  do 
they  work  ?  "  And  the  man  said  unto  him,  "  They 
raise  the  dead,  and  they  cleanse  those  who  are  lepers, 
and  they  drive  out  devils.  They  know  Asrabis  (Sarapis), 
and  Baal,  and  Apollo,  whom  they  serve  and  love  greatly, 
according  to  all  the  things  which  I  have  seen  with  mine 
own  eyes." 

And  when  Herod  heard  these  words  he  marvelled, 
and  he  commanded  a  herald  to  go  round  the  city  and 
to  proclaim  thus  :  "  If  there  be  any  man  who  shall  find 
these  [people]  and  bring  them  [to  me],  I  will  reward 
him  even  to  the  half  of  my  kingdom."  And  he  swore 
this  great  oath.  And  the  soldiers  scattered  themselves 
among  the  mountains,  and  hills  and  valleys,  seeking  for 
them,  but  they  did  not  find  them,  for  they  had  dis- 
appeared. (Fol.  112b,  col.  2)  And  Herod  returned  to 
the  city,  and  the  Angel  of  God  stood  in  [his]  road,  and 
smote  the  horse's  nose  with  [a  piece  of]  the  wood  of  the 
Cross,  and  the  horse  in  his  fright  leaped  up  twelve 
cubits  in  the  air,  and  threw  Herod  on  the  ground,  and 
made  him  like  a  motionless  corpse.  And  the  soldiers 
carried  him  on  his  bed  and  brought  him  into  his  house ; 
but  his  soul  did  not  go  forth  from  his  body.  For  he 
must  needs  become  the  slayer  of  the  children — now 
many  priests  and  prophets  became  martyrs  through 

203 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

him — and  therefore  [God]  left  him  bound  hand  and 
foot. 

II.  And  after  six  months  the  sickness  departed  from 
him  a  little,  and  he  went  out  from  his  house,  and  sat  in 
judgment.  And  he  commanded  a  herald  to  go  round 
about  the  city  and  proclaim  thus  :  "  If  there  be  any 
man  who  doth  not  come  to  me  within  three  days,  he 
shall  surely  die,  and  they  shall  slay  him  with  the  sword 
and  stoning  with  stones."  And  within  the  three  days 
there  came  unto  him  (Fol.  112b,  col.  3)  a  multitude  of 
people  from  the  cities  and  villages  in  the  country.  And 
he  commanded  his  servants  and  all  the  men  in  his 
house,  who  were  clad  in  iron  armour,  and  they  mounted 
[their]  horses,  so  that  they  might  be  ready  for  the  kill- 
ing. And  he  said  unto  the  people,  "  Why  have  ye 
worked  magic  upon  me  ?  "  And  the  people  said  unto 
him,  "  O  our  lord  the  king,  the  God  of  Israel  knoweth 
that  we  have  not  committed  any  evil  against  thee." 
And  Herod  said  unto  them,  "If  ye  have  not  worked 
magic  against  me,  let  each  one  of  you  expel  the  sor- 
cerers." And  the  people  said  unto  him,  "  Give  us  time 
to  work  out  a  plan."  And  Herod  said  unto  them, "Make 
your  plan  now,  for  I  will  not  let  you  depart  to  your 
houses."  And  they  made  a  plan,  and  they  drove  out 
the  sojourners  among  them  who  did  not  belong  to  their 
country,  and  their  kinsfolk,  and  they  set  them  before 
Herod.  Now  the  number  of  the  sojourners  was  four 
hundred  thousand.  And  the  people  said  unto  the  king, 
"  These  are  the  sorcerers  who  cast  thee  from  the  horse." 
And  Herod  said  unto  them,  (Fol.  113a,  col.  i)  "  What 
evil  have  I  done  unto  you  that  ye  would  cause  me  such 
a  death  as  this,  and  plot  evil  against  me  ?  "  And  the 
people  said  unto  him  with  one  voice,  "  O  our  lord  the 
king,  we  have  done  nothing  evil  whatsoever  against 
thee.  The  God  of  Israel  knoweth  that  we  never  saw  thy 
face  except  this  day."  And  Herod  said  unto  them,"  By 
my  faith,  there  is  no  [reason]  in  these  words  why  ye 

204 


Her  Flight  to  Mou?2t  Leiano?! 

should  escape  me."  And  he  said  unto  his  servants, 
"  Smite  them  with  swords,  and  do  not  let  one  of  them 
remain  [alive]  "  ;  and  the  number  of  those  who  died 
was  four  hundred  thousand.  And  angels  came  down 
with  crowns  and  laid  [them]  upon  their  heads,  saying, 
"  Hallelujah  to  the  martyrs.  Honour  befitteth  them. 
Hallelujah.  The  oppressed  have  committed  themselves 
to  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  those  who  have  been 
slain  for  the  sake  of  the  Child  shall  rejoice  with  Him  in 
the  heavens."  And  darkness  covered  the  whole  earth, 
and  the  whole  appearance  of  the  heavens  was  changed, 
and  it  became  like  blood  ;  and  the  whole  country  was 
shaken  as  far  as  (Fol.  113a,  col.  2)  Meser  (Cairo)  and 
Egypt,  and  as  far  as  Persia,  and  as  Zablon  and  Naftalem, 
and  the  sound  of  the  voices  of  those  four  hundred 
thousand  was  heard. 

HI.  And  then  all  the  people  spake,  each  man  to  his 
neighbour  in  his  city  and  country,  saying,  "  This  man 
doth  not  deserve  to  reign  over  us,  for  he  is  the  slayer 
of  the  soul  of  a  man.  Have  ye  not  heard  what  took 
place  in  the  days  of  Elijah  the  Prophet  when  he  com- 
manded the  king,  saying, '  Thou  shalt  worship  no  other 
god  but  the  One  God,  besides  Whom  there  is  no  other 
god,  the  God  Who  alone  made  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  and  all  that  is  in  them  ?  '  And  when  the  king  re- 
fused to  hear  his  voice  Elijah  bridled  the  heavens  for 
three  years  and  six  months.  And  men  perished,  and  it 
was  not  men  only  that  perished  but  cattle,  and  all  the 
birds  of  the  heavens  perished.  Similarly,  that  (Fol.  113a, 
col.  3)  we  may  not  perish,  let  us  kill  one  man  in  order 
that  all  the  people  may  not  be  destroyed."  And  when 
Herod  heard  these  words  and  [knew]  that  they  were 
plotting  he  sent  a  message  unto  them,  saying,  "  These 
people  did  not  belong  to  your  nation,  but  were  aliens 
(or,  sojourners).  And  now,  my  brethren,  my  kingdom 
belongeth  to  you,  and  my  glory  belongeth  to  you  ;  do 
not  in  any  way  revolt  from  your  obedience.  And  every- 

20  q 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

thing  which  ye  are  thinking  I  will  perform  for  you. 
And  now,  forgive  ye  me  my  folly,  and  I  will  give  you 
gold  and  silver  which  shall  be  sufficient  to  feed  you 
until  the  day  of  your  death."  And  when  the  people 
heard  these  words  of  astuteness  they  did  not  believe 
what  Herod  said,  and  they  said,  "  Doth  he  not  say  this 
in  order  that  he  may  kill  us  even  as  he  killed  the  four 
hundred  thousand  ?  "  And  they  said  unto  him,  "  Nay, 
but  we  all  will  depart  with  our  swords  drawn,  and  hold- 
ing our  bows."  And  then  they  spake  to  each  other,  say- 
ing, "As  far  as  ye  are  able  let  every  man  arm  himself 
with  some  kind  of  weapon,  and  carry  ye  them  to  fight 
against  him  "  ;  (Fol.  113b,  col.  i)  and  when  they  had 
finished  this  work  nine  hundred  thousand  and  eighty- 
two  went  against  him. 

And  when  Herod  heard  of  this  he  went  forth  from 
his  house,  and  said  unto  them,  "  Peace  be  unto  you." 
And  he  sat  upon  the  ground,  and  spake  unto  them  in  a 
friendly  manner  with  words  of  astuteness.  And  he  com- 
manded his  servants  to  kill  oxen,  and  bulls,  and  sheep 
without  number,  and  they  brought  a  large  vessel  of 
wine,  and  he  gave  the  elders  and  the  counsellors  to  eat 
and  to  drink.  And  he  said  unto  them,  "  Come,  follow 
me  with  the  nobles,  for  there  is  good  meat  and  drink 
here."  And  they  followed  him,  for  they  thought  that 
he  would  give  them  gold,  and  silver,  and  fine  apparel, 
besides  meat  and  drink.  And  when  they  had  come  in 
Herod  commanded  his  slaves,  saying,  "  Bolt  the  doors "  ; 
and  they  did  so,  and  he  took  them  into  the  middle  of 
his  garden.  And  Herod  said  unto  the  people  of  his 
house  and  unto  his  slaves,  "  Smite  them  with  swords 
(Fol.  1 1 3b,  col.  2)  and  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  leave  not 
one  of  them  [alive]."  Now  their  soldiers  thought  that 
they  were  eating  and  drinking,  and  that  Herod  was 
giving  them  many  possessions.  And  Herod  commanded 
the  men  of  his  house,  and  his  slaves,  and  his  kinsfolk,  to 
mount  their  horses,  and  to  put  on  their  iron  armour, 

206 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lel?a?ton 

and  to  surround  those  soldiers  ;  and  they  did  so,  and 
they  stabbed  them  with  their  daggers,  and  drove  their 
spears  into  them,  and  hacked  them  to  pieces  with 
swords,  and  only  left  a  very  few  [alive].  And  the  num- 
ber of  those  who  died  was  one  hundred  times  ten  thou- 
sand and  twenty-three.  May  their  holy  blessing  be  with 
us  for  ever. 

IV.  And  then  Herod  appointed  his  slaves,  and  the 
men  of  his  house,  and  his  young  men,  to  be  magistrates, 
and  governors,  and  rulers  over  the  cities,  and  he  said 
unto  them,  "  Slay  ye  every  criminal,  and  evil-doer,  and 
rebel  with  the  sword,  and  make  their  service  harder." 
And  those  who  died  received  (Fol.  113b,  col.  3)  crowns 
in  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens,  for  they  had  died  a  vio- 
lent death  for  God's  sake,  and  especially  because  of  the 
search  for  the  Child  and  His  Mother.  And  our  Lady 
Mary  and  Joseph  heard  the  report  of  the  slaughter 
which  Herod  made,  and  they  dwelt  in  the  mountains 
of  Lebanon.  And  the  men  of  that  country  heard  the 
sound  of  their  words,  and  they  went  to  them,  and 
brought  them  wine,  and  bread,  and  honey,  and  oil,  and 
apparel  wherewith  to  dress  themselves.  And  our  Lady 
Mary  pronounced  blessings  over  them,  and  straight- 
way the  demoniacs  were  healed,  and  the  lepers  were 
cleansed,  and  devils  went  forth  from  the  men  they  pos- 
sessed. And  very  many  miracles  were  wrought  for  them, 
and  their  people  and  their  beasts  suffered  from  no  sick- 
ness. And  Joseph  said  unto  the  people,  and  unto  the 
peoples,  "  Take  good  heed  that  ye  do  not  say  that  we 
have  arrived  in  your  country,  through  fear  of  Herod 
the  infidel."  And  Domitianus  said  unto  Joseph  and 
Mary,  "  The  (Fol.  1 14a,  col.  i)  God  of  Israel  knoweth 
that  if  ye  die  we  will  die  with  you,  and  if  ye  live  we 
shall  live."  And  our  Lady  Mary  said  unto  the  people, 
"  Ye  are  the  people  of  honourable  race  whom  God  hath 
called  from  misery  to  glory,  and  from  poverty  to  riches, 
and  from  sorrow  to  joy." 

207 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

V.  And  after  six  months  had  passed  Herod  heard  the 
report  of  the  Child,  for  he  saw  the  passers  on  the  road 
who  dwelt  in  Naphtalem.  And  he  said  unto  the  nobles 
of  his  kingdom,  "  I  hear  a  certain  rumour,  and  behold, 
the  Child  is  in  the  mountains  of  Lebanon."  And  when 
the  nobles  of  his  kingdom  heard  this,  their  hearts  were 
sad,  and  they  said  among  themselves,  "  If  we  say,  '  It 
is  not  so,'  we  are  afraid  he  will  kill  us  ;  and  if  we  say 
unto  him,  '  Yea,  it  is  so,'  it  will  not  be  a  good  thing." 
And  Herod  said  unto  them,  "  To-morrow  harness 
horses,  and  [prepare]  chariots,  so  that  we  may  march 
against  them  "  ;  and  they  said  unto  him,  "  Yea,  we  will 
do  so."  And  Herod  bound  his  informer  with  iron,  and 
he  said  unto  him,  "  If  (Fol.  1 14a,  col.  2)  thou  dost  not 
bring  me  to  the  place  where  they  are,  assuredly  thou 
shalt  die  ;  and  if  thou  dost  bring  me  thither,  then 
choose  riches  even  to  the  end  of  my  kingdom."  And 
that  man  said  unto  him,  "  Do  what  thou  wilt,  O  my 
lord  the  king."  And  Saint  Gigar,  the  Governor  of 
Syria,  said  unto  one  of  his  slaves,  "  Mount  a  horse  and 
go  quickly,  and  say  unto  the  chiefs  who  dwell  in  the 
mountains  of  Lebanon, '  To-morrow  the  king  will  come 
unto  thee  with  his  soldiers,  and  will  find  out  if  there  are 
with  you  any  sojourners  (or  aliens).'  "  And  when  the 
Governor  of  Kueta  heard  this  he  was  exceedingly 
wroth,  and  he  commanded  a  herald  to  go  round 
about  the  country  as  far  as  Kiraz,  and  Tomnahe,  and 
Upper  Persia.  And  he  said  unto  them,  "  What  we  have 
not  seen  we  have  seen,  and  what  we  have  not  heard  we 
have  heard  :  Herod  hath  risen  up  [to  war].  Men  of 
Judah  and  Jerusalem,  let  your  bows  be  ready  bent,  and 
let  your  spears  be  drawn  from  their  rests,  and  let  your 
(Fol.  114a,  col.  3)  javelins  be  strong,  and  let  the  war- 
riors and  the  men  trained  in  battle  be  prepared  to  fight 
against  him,  and  to-morrow  come  ye  hither  to  me." 
And  the  whole  city  and  the  whole  country  were  moved. 
And  there  rose  up  to  war  from  Persia  three  hundred 

208 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

times  ten  thousand  men,  and  their  chariots  were  sixty 
thousand  ;  and  from  Hamenyu  three  hundred  times 
ten  thousand  and  sixty  men  ;  and  from  Karas  fifty 
times  ten  thousand  men  ;  and  from  the  mountains  of 
Lebanon  seventy  times  ten  thousand  and  ninety  hun- 
dreds of  men,  and  they  came  to  the  Governor  of  Kueta. 
And  besides  these  there  were  other  troops  which  were 
uncountable,  and  they  were  like  the  stars  of  heaven  for 
number. 

And  the  Governor  of  Kueta  said  unto  those  who 
mustered  and  to  the  other  troops,  "  Remember  ye  the 
words  which  we  speak,  for  there  is  a  matter  to  us  in 
respect  of  Mary  and  in  respect  of  her  Son,  who  have 
healed  your  demoniacs,  and  even  raised  your  dead,  and 
cleansed  your  lepers,  and  cast  out  devils."  And  all  the 
people  answered  him  with  one  voice,  [and]  the  chief 
said,  "  Our  death  shall  be  with  your  death,  and  our  life 
shall  be  with  your  life,  (Fol.  1 14b,  col.  i)  and  we  will  not 
make  our  word  to  be  a  lie.  The  God  of  Israel  knoweth 
that  it  is  not  Herod  alone  whom  we  will  kill,  but  all 
Judah,  even  to  Jerusalem,  and  Zebulon,  and  Naph- 
talem,  and  Cairo  and  Egypt.  And  we  will  make  the 
whole  city  to  be  a  ruined  place,  and  a  city  of  pepper 
{sic)  and  the  mouse,  and  a  city  of  the  panther  and  the 
lizard,  and  the  jungle  shall  inherit  their  land,  which 
cannot  be  penetrated  with  the  bow  and  arrow,  and  the 
story  of  it  shall  [endure]  for  generations." 

VI.  Then  Domitianus  rose  up  and  all  his  soldiers 
with  him,  and  the  horn  was  blown  before  him,  and  as 
he  was  journeying  on  the  road  he  heard  a  voice  going 
round  about  him  which  said  in  the  Hebrew  language, 
"  Domitianus,  do  no  evil  to  Herod  so  that  the  God  of 
Israel  may  not  be  wroth  with  thee,  for  by  his  own  hand 
shall  become  martyrs  men  and  women,  and  old  folk  and 
(Fol.  114b,  col.  2)  children.  And  do  thou  rejoice  and 
be  glad,  for  thy  name  is  written  in  the  Book  of  Life 
and  also  the  names  of  those  who  are  with  thee  ;  for  not 

p  209 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

one  of  them  shall  be  destroyed,  nor  a  hair  of  their 
heads."  And  when  Domitianus  heard  [this]  he  was  sad 
and  exceedingly  sorrowful  in  respect  of  Herod,  for 
wrath  filled  his  heart,  and  he  said,  "  The  God  of  Israel 
knoweth  that  I  would  have  made  him  like  the  dust  of 
the  earth  before  the  face  of  the  wind,  and  like  wax  in 
the  fire."  And  having  said  this  he  went  up  into  the 
mountain  which  is  called  Akorobeyon,  so  that  he  might 
spy  out  the  border  of  his  country  and  observe  the  land 
of  Judah  and  Jerusalem,  and  Egypt  and  Cairo,  and 
Zebulon  and  Naftalem.  And  he  wept  and  said,  *'  O 
Lord,  why  dost  Thou  not  permit  me  to  lay  waste  this 
country  ?  "  And  straightway  and  suddenly  the  Angel 
of  God  appeared  unto  him,  and  said  unto  him,  "  O 
righteous  one,  what  is  it  that  maketh  thee  sorrowful  ? 
Have  not  thy  toil  (Fol.  114b,  col.  3)  and  sorrow  gone 
up  before  God  to  be  a  memorial  of  thee  ?  And  now,  be 
not  sorrowful,  for  the  righteous  shall  not  revile  their 
revilers,  but  shall  do  good  unto  them,  and  reward  them 
with  good  in  the  place  of  evil.  And  as  for  thee,  thou 
shalt  not  do  evil  to  Herod."  And  having  said  this  unto 
him  the  Angel  went  up  into  the  heavens. 

VH.  And  when  Herod  had  come  to  the  camp  of 
Domitianus,  he  was  afraid  and  trembled,  and  he  said 
unto  his  captain,  "  This  is  an  evil  day  :  thou  hast 
brought  us  here  that  we  may  die  a  bitter  death."  And 
his  soldiers  held  their  peace,  and  no  man  spake  unto  his 
fellow  ;  and  Saint  Gigar  laughed  within  his  soul  and 
rejoiced.  And  a  eunuch  saw  Herod  wondering  (?).  And 
Herod  came  to  Domitianus  with  his  loins  girded  up, 
and  he  went  down  on  his  feet,  without  sandals,  for  he 
was  exceedingly  terrified.  And  when  Domitianus  saw 
Herod,  he  rose  up  from  his  seat  and  welcomed  him. 
(Fol.  115a,  col.  i)  And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "Why 
dost  thou  rise  up  to  thy  slave  ?  Is  not  thy  word  suffi- 
cient for  me  ?  "  And  Domitianus  said  unto  him,  "  Sit 
down,  my  brother  ;  •  •  •  within  it  bow  down  to  thee." 

210 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Leiano?i 

And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "  What  meaneth  this  word 
'  bow  down  '  ?  Men  without  number  bow  down  to  thee 
— thy  soldiers.  For  behold,  as  I  was  coming  to  thee  I 
saw  men  on  the  right  and  on  the  left,  and  in  advance 
and  behind,  and  I  could  not  count  thy  soldiers."  And 
Domitianus  said  unto  him,  "  For  what  purpose  hast 
thou  come  hither  ? "  And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "There 
are  magicians — a  man  and  a  woman  with  a  little  Child 
and  three  servants — living  in  this  city.  For  I  have  heard 
people  saying  that  they  are  in  the  mountains  of  Leba- 
non. For  this  purpose  have  I  come  unto  thee."  And 
Domitianus  said  unto  him,  "  The  God  of  Israel  know- 
eth  that  Satan  hath  veiled  thy  heart  in  a  veil  that  cannot 
be  opened.  And  behold,  I  have  heard  with  mine  ear, 
(Fol.  115a,  col.  2)  and  seen  with  mine  eyes,  two  wit- 
nesses speaking,  and  envoys  from  God  saying,  '  Do  no 
harm  to  Herod  '  ;  and  because  of  this  word  I  let  thee 
go.  Had  it  not  been  thus  I  would  have  made  thee  like 
nothing,  and  all  Judah  and  Jerusalem  would  have  been 
laid  waste.  O  Herod,  I  marvel  at  thee.  How  canst  thou 
call  *  magicians  '  those  whom  the  God  of  Israel  hath 
chosen  ?  Can  the  magicians  who  are  in  thy  country 
raise  the  dead,  and  heal  the  demoniacs,  and  cleanse  the 
lepers,  and  cast  out  devils  ?  And  at  this  thing  thy  heart 
hath  not  been  turned  !  Who  is  there  among  the  magi- 
cians and  thy  gods  who  are  able  to  do  likewise  ?  " 

And  when  Herod  heard  these  words  he  said  unto 
Domitianus,  "  Behold,  for  thy  sake  I  will  give  up  the 
search  for  them,  for  thou  art  my  dear  friend.  If  any 
man  had  killed  my  wife  and  my  children  and  he  came  to 
thee,  I  would  let  him  go  for  thy  sake."  And  when  Do- 
mitianus heard  him  (Fol.  i.i  5a,  col.  3)  that  was  not  gentle 
[talking]  gently  he  marvelled  ;  for  death  and  hell  were 
in  his  (Herod's)  heart.  And  Herod  brought  to  Domiti- 
anus six  horses,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Take  [them  as]  a 
gift  to  thee."  And  Domitianus  said  unto  him,  "  There 
are  in  my  own  country  horses  that  are  as  swift  as  birds. 

211 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

And  as  for  gold  and  silver,  they  are  accounted  as  brass 
in  my  house  ;  I  do  not  want  thy  gift."  And  Herod 
said  unto  him,  "  I  will  repeat  unto  thee  a  little  secret 
matter  which  I  have  heard  from  many,  who  say,  He 
shall  reign  over  the  house  of  Jacob.  My  brother,  take 
good  heed  to  thyself  that  they  take  not  thy  kingdom 
away.  Give  me  them  so  that  I  may  place  them  in  Beth- 
lehem that  they  may  dwell  there  in  safety  and  peace." 
And  Domitianus  marvelled  in  his  heart,  and  said, "  This 
is  not  a  man  but  Satan,  and  I  will  kill  him  with  [my] 
dagger.  H  the  God  of  Israel  willeth  let  Him  punish  me, 
and  if  He  willeth  let  Him  keep  me  alive."  And  im- 
mediately (Fol.  115b,  col.  i)  the  Angel  Uriel  appeared 
before  his  eyes  with  a  red-hot  spear  of  fire  in  his  hand, 
and  he  said  unto  him,  "  Domitianus,  why  thinkest  thou 
thus  in  thy  heart  ?  Doth  not  God  hate  him  that  trans- 
gresseth  the  Law  ?  Turn  thy  heart  to  mercy  lest  God 
bring  His  wrath  upon  thee.  And  why  art  thou  sitting 
with  this  man  ?  Doth  not  the  Book  of  the  Law  of 
Moses  say  unto  thee.  Touch  not  that  which  is  unclean, 
for  every  one  who  toucheth  what  is  unclean  is  defiled  ? 
O  Domitianus,  is  there  anything  more  unclean  than 
Herod  ?  For  his  father  was  male  and  female,  and  his 
mother  was  male  and  female,  and  therefore  Satan  hath 
made  him  a  house.  And  he  departeth  not  from  him 
neither  by  day  nor  by  night ;  and  Herod  feareth  not 
God,  and  in  his  heart  he  esteemeth  Him  not.  And  now, 
dismiss  him  quickly  to  his  own  country,  and  hold  not 
converse  with  him  of  any  kind,  whether  it  be  [for]  good 
or  evil."  And  when  the  Angel  (Fol.  115b,  col.  2)  had 
said  this  unto  him  he  went  up  into  heaven  ;  and  Herod 
only  heard  his  voice,  and  did  not  see  his  face. 

And  Domitianus  rose  up  and  made  a  sign  with  his 
hand  that  he  would  depart  to  his  own  country,  and  they 
blew  the  horn  before  him,  and  sounded  the  drums,  and 
the  pipes  and  all  the  kinds  of  musical  instruments  that 
are  sounded  on  occasions  of  ceremony.   And  Domitia- 

212 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

nus  returned  to  his  own  country,  being  astonished  at  the 
operation  of  God  and  the  awesomeness  of  the  angels. 
And  Herod  also  came  to  his  country.  And  as  he  was 
going  along  he  said  unto  his  soldiers,  "  Hearken  ye,  O 
my  brethren,  Domitianus  strengtheneth  his  army  with 
devils,  and  whilst  I  was  there  with  him  I  heard  the 
voice  [of  one  of  them],  but  I  did  not  see  his  face."  And 
his  soldiers  said  unto  him,  "  Thou  speakest  the  truth, 
for  because  of  this  thing  he  was  able  to  terrify  us.  And 
then  he  came  to  his  city,  where  he  hath  been  living  for 
three  days." 

Vni.  And  then  the  eunuch  said  unto  Herod,  "  We 
are  in  (Fol.  115b,  col.  3)  the  land  of  Domitianus,  and 
since  we  came  [here]  thou  hast  been  exceedingly  sorrow- 
ful, O  my  lord  the  king.  It  is  known  that  thy  kingdom 
shall  endure  for  ever,  then  cannot  we  rejoice  with  one 
another  ?  Now  Gigar,  the  Governor  of  Syria,  rejoiceth, 
and  is  glad,  and  laugheth."  And  Herod  said  unto  him, 
"  Wherefore  doth  he  laugh  ?  "  And  the  eunuch  said 
unto  him,  "  I  have  another  matter  to  tell  thee."  And 
Herod  said  unto  him,  "  What  is  this  matter  ?  "  And 
the  eunuch  said  unto  him,  "  That  one  sent  me  unto 
Domitianus,  saying, '  Behold,  the  king  is  coming  against 
thee  that  he  may  destroy  the  city.'  "  And  when  Herod 
heard  this  he  was  exceedingly  wroth,  and  his  heart  was 
mad  like  that  of  a  man  drunk  with  wine.  And  he  com- 
manded his  slaves  to  seize  Saint  Gigar,  and  to  bind  him 
in  iron  fetters,  [and  they  did  so].  And  then  they  seized 
him  and  took  him  to  Herod,  and  Herod  said  unto  Saint 
Gigar,  "  How  long  wilt  thou  rejoice  over  me  ?  Is  it 
true  that  thou  didst  send  a  message  to  Domitianus  ?  " 
(Fol.  ii6a,  col.  i)  And  Saint  Gigar  said,  "  Yea,  I  sent 
a  message  unto  him,  saying,  '  Behold,  Herod  will  come 
unto  thee  that  he  may  seek  out  Mary  and  her  Child.'  " 
And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "Are  they  thy  kinsfolk  ?  " 
And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  him,  "  God  created  me,  and 
for  God's  sake  I  will  die,  O  king.   Thou  dost  worship 

213 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Apollo,  and  Artemis,  and  Sarapis,  who  did  not  create 
thee,  and  for  their  sake  thou  wilt  die,  and  wilt  inherit 
the  hell  of  fire  which  is  for  ever.  For  I  saw  in  my 
dream  last  night  thee  going  down  into  Sheol,  and  the 
angels  weaving  a  crown  upon  thy  head."  And  the 
nobles  of  Herod's  kingdom  said  unto  Saint  Gigar,''How 
dost  thou  dare  to  speak  to  the  king  in  this  wise  ?  "  And 
Saint  Gigar  said  unto  them,  "  To  you  he  is  indeed 
king,  but,  as  for  me,  I  have  no  king  except  the  God  of 
Israel."  And  Herod  said  unto  the  nobles  of  his  king- 
dom, "  I  know  well  (Fol.  ii6a,  col.  2)  the  opinion  of 
this  man,  but  I  do  not  want  to  kill  him  with  one  word 
so  that  he  may  rest  from  punishment."  And  he  said  a 
second  time  unto  Saint  Gigar,  "Art  thou  not  wishing 
that  I  will  kill  thee  with  one  word  ?  "  And  Herod  com- 
manded that  they  should  bring  his  wife,  and  his  chil- 
dren, and  his  father,  and  his  mother,  and  all  his  kinsfolk, 
some  seventy-six  souls,  and  they  brought  them  before 
Herod.  And  he  said  unto  them,  "  Go  ye  and  tell  Gigar 
to  curse  Domitianus,  and  I  will  release  him  from  his 
fetters,  and  I  will  restore  him  to  his  office  of  magis- 
trate. As  for  you,  I  will  give  you  honour  and  riches, 
and  ye  shall  be  my  friends  "  ;  and  they  said  unto  him, 
"  We  consent."  And  the  eunuch  took  them  to  Saint 
Gigar  in  the  prison  house.  And  when  Saint  Gigar  saw 
his  father  and  his  mother  he  smiled  and  said  unto  them, 
"  The  God  of  Israel  hath  summoned  you  into  heaven 
with  the  Father,  and  into  the  marriage  chamber  " ;  and 
they  told  him  everything  that  Herod  had  said  unto 
them.  And  Saint  Gigar  said  (Fol.  11 6a,  col.  3)  unto 
them,  "  Let  those  who  curse  our  Lady  Mary  be  ac- 
cursed, and  let  those  who  bless  her  be  blessed  ;  as  for 
me,  let  my  portion  be  with  Domitianus.  How  can  I 
hate  him  whom  God  hath  praised  ?  Hear  me,  O  my 
father  and  my  brethren,  yea,  my  mother  and  my  kins- 
folk, let  not  this  accursed  man  lead  you  astray.  If  ye 
will  not  hearken  unto  my  voice,  through  it  ye  shall  die, 

214 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

and  here  ye  shall  die.  In  the  days  of  Nebuchadnezzar, 
king  of  Babylon,  there  were  found  Three  excellent 
Children,  and  he  commanded  them  to  deny  God.  And 
they  refused  to  deny  Him,  and  they  cursed  his  king- 
dom, and  his  army,  and  his  polluted  gods.  And  he  had 
lighted  a  fire  the  flame  of  which  rose  up  to  a  height  of 
forty-nine  cubits,  and  they  threw  them  into  it.  And 
the  Three  Children  blessed  the  God  of  Israel,  saying, 
'  Blessed  be  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  Who  is  the  object 
of  my  praise,  and  my  high  place  for  ever.  Hallelujah  ! 
(Fol.  I  i6b,  col.  i)  And  blessed  be  the  name  of  His  holy 
glory.  He  is  my  praise  and  my  hith  place  in  all  the 
world.  Hallelujah  !  Blessed  art  Thou  in  the  holy 
citadel  of  Thy  praise  ;  Thou  art  my  praise,  Thou  art 
my  thanks,  for  ever.  Hallelujah  !  '  And  with  these  and 
such-like  praises  did  they  glorify  their  Creator.  And  he 
cast  Daniel  the  Prophet  into  a  pit  with  the  lions  and 
sealed  up  the  mouth  of  the  pit,  thinking  that  they 
would  devour  the  Three  Children.  [But]  the  fire  did 
not  touch  them,  and  the  appearance  of  their  faces  was 
not  changed,  and  they  went  forth  from  the  fire  with 
their  loin-cloths.  And  as  for  Daniel  the  Prophet,  the 
lions  did  not  even  lick  his  body  with  their  tongues,  and 
he  went  forth  from  the  pit  in  safety.  And  now,  O  my 
father,  and  brethren,  and  kinsfolk,  fear  ye  not  death, 
for  afterwards  ye  shall  find  life."  And  when  his  father, 
and  mother,  and  kinsfolk  had  heard  these  things  they 
spake  unto  each  other,  saying,  "  From  the  time  of  his 
birth  he  hath  before  this  instructed  us  (Fol.  ii6b, 
col.  2)  from  out  of  himself.  Who  can  have  taught  him 
who  hath  never  learned  from  books  these  words  of  wis- 
dom ?  This  that  he  hath  said  unto  us  is  true,  for  Herod 
commandeth  us  by  force  to  curse  the  Name  of  God, 
and  if  we  do  so  he  will  kill  us,  and  we  shall  lose  our  lives 
in  both  worlds." 

IX.  And  then  the  eunuch  took  him  to  Herod,  and 
told  him  everything  which  Saint  Gigar  said,  and  how 

215 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

he  had  instructed  his  kinsfolk.    And  Herod  commanded 
them  to  cast  him  into  prison.    And  he  said  unto  his 
slaves,  "  Bring  a  cord  of  silk  and  tie  the  hands  and  arms 
of  Gigar  behind  [him]  until  he  breaketh  "  ;    and  to- 
wards evening  his  slaves  went  [and  did]  as  he  had  com- 
manded them.   And  Gigar  passed  the  whole  night  cry- 
ing out  to  God,  saying,  "  O  my  Lord  and  God,  and  the 
God  of  my  fathers,  all  this  hath  come  upon  me  for  Thy 
sake,  for  I  have  rejected  gold,  and  silver,  and  raiment 
and  linen  apparel,  (Fol.  117b,  col.  3)  and  I  have  hated 
my  office  of  governor.    Moreover,  I  have  committed 
my  life  in  this  world  to  Thee  ;   deliver  Thou  me  from 
this  hour."   And  straightway  and  suddenly  the  Angel 
of  God  came  unto  him,  and  he  lighted  up  the  whole 
of  the  prison-house  like  the  sun,  and  he  said  unto  him, 
"  The  peace  of  God  be  with  thee.   O  thou  of  glorious 
race,  why  art  thou  sad  and  sorrowful  ?   Hath  not  God 
given  unto  thee  an  exalted  throne,  and  set  upon  thy 
head  three  crowns,  one  because  He  sent  thee  to  Domi- 
tianus,  and  one  because  of  the  shedding  of  thy  blood, 
and  one  because  thou  hast  rejected  glory  and  thy  kins- 
folk ?    And  behold,  thy  father  and  thy  mother  shall 
reign  with  thee  in  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens."   And 
then  the  Angel  took  the  silk  cord  from  his  hands,  and 
he  made  it  into  a  venomous  serpent  which  was  full  of 
poison,  and  he  said  unto  it,  "  Go  and  sting  (or,  bite) 
those  who  are  in  the  house  of  Herod,  and  twine  thyself 
round   Herod's   neck."     And    it   went    running    and 
(Fol.  117a,  col.  i)  stung  very  many,  and  the  number 
of  those  who  died  through  the  bite  of  the  serpent  was 
nine  and  forty  ;    and  the  serpent  twined  itself  round 
the  neck  of  Herod.  And  with  the  Angel  of  God  guiding 
him  Gigar  went  to  the  prison-house,  to  the  place  where 
his  kinsfolk  were  ;    and  then  the  Angel  went  up  into 
heaven.    And  when  Gigar's  father,  and  mother,  and 
kinsfolk  saw  him,  they  rejoiced  and  said,  "  Blessed  be 
the  Lord  God  Who  hath  shown  us  thy  face  before  we 

216 


Her  Flight  to  Mou?it  'Lebanon 

die."  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  them,  "  Ye  shall  not 
die,   but  live."    And  he  told  them  everything  that 
Herod  had  done,  and  how  he  had  bound  him  with  a 
cord,  and  how  the  Angel  of  God  had  come  down  to 
him,  and  how  he  had  told  him  glad  tidings,  and  how 
he  had  made  the  silk  [cord]  into  a  serpent,  and  had 
commanded  it  to  go  into  the  house  of  Herod,  and  sting 
those  who  were  therein.    "And  the  sign  of  the  matter 
[shall  be]  in  the  morning  when  ye  hear  the  report  of 
the  outcry  from  the  house  of  Herod.    Fear  ye  not 
death,  and  imagine  not  (Fol.  117a,  col.  2)  that  ye  shall 
die,  but  ye  shall  go  from  poverty  to  riches,  and  from 
weakness  to  strength,  and  from  sorrow  to  joy."    And 
having  said  this  he  embraced  them,  and  said  unto  them, 
"  Remember  ye  me  in  your  prayers."    And  they  said 
unto  him,  "  Thou  art  better  than  we  are,  remember 
thou  us  in  thy  prayers."    And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto 
them,  "  Verily  I  say  unto  you  that  ye  shall  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  before  I  shall "  ;    and  having 
said  these  words  he  kept  silence  in  the  prison-house. 
And  his  guards  saw  him  walking  about  naked  with  his 
fetter  cast  down  upon  the  ground,  and  they  said  unto 
him,  "  O  our  lord,  we  believe  in  Him  Whom  thou  wor- 
shippest,  and  now,  take  back  thy  fetter  into  thy  hands." 
And  Saint  Gigar  took  up  his  fetter  and  put  it  back  on 
his  hands,  and  it  refused  to  approach  his  body,  and  be- 
came like  water.  And  he  said  unto  the  slaves  of  Herod, 
"  Do  ye  bind  me  as  the  king  commanded  you  "  ;  (Fol. 
117a,  col.  3)  and  they  said  unto  him,  "We  have  no 
king."   And  whilst  they  were  conversing  in  this  wise, 
an  outcry  broke  out  in  the  house  of  Herod,  and  his 
slaves  went  to  learn  what  had  happened.   And  they  re- 
turned to  Saint  Gigar,  and  they  said  unto  him,  "  O  our 
master,  there  are  no  people  left  in  the  house  of  Herod, 
for  a  serpent  hath  destroyed  them."   And  Saint  Gigar 
said,  "  Praised  be  God  in  His  praise,  and  thanked  be  He 
in  His  thanks,  and  exalted  be  He  in  His  exaltation.  For 

217 


The  History  of  the  Virgift  Ma?y 

since  the  world  hath  been  created  it  hath  never  been 
heard  that  a  silk  cord  became  a  serpent  and  slew  men. 
He  is  almighty,  and  nothing  is  too  hard  for  Him."  And 
whilst  they  were  saying  these  things,  some  of  the  sol- 
diers of  Herod  came  and  said  unto  Saint  Gigar,  "  Come, 
for  the  king  calleth  for  thee  "  ;  and  he  said,  "  I  come." 
And  he  went  and  came  to  the  king,  and  he  saw  a  serpent 
on  the  neck  of  the  king,  and  an  ironsmith  was  dragging 
at  it  with  a  pair  of  pincers,  but  he  could  not  free  him 
from  it.  And  the  serpent  sprang  up  and  stung  him, 
and  the  ironsmith  fell  down  upon  the  ground  and 
(Fol.  117b,  col.  i)  died  straightway.  And  the  serpent 
returned  to  Herod's  neck,  and  he  did  this  once,  twice, 
and  thrice.  And  whilst  they  were  in  pain  Herod  said 
unto  Saint  Gigar,  "  Rejoice  and  be  glad  at  the  sight  of 
the  serpent."  And  he  said  unto  his  warders,  "  Why 
have  ye  freed  him  from  the  fetter  ?  "  And  they  said 
unto  Herod,  "  The  God  of  Israel  knoweth  that  we  did 
not  release  him,  and  we  did  not  know  that  he  was 
unfettered."  And  Herod  said  unto  them,  "  Hath  he 
bewitched  you  ?  "  And  they  said  unto  him,  "  By  no 
means,  we  do  not  understand  sorcery.  But  we  are  wit- 
nesses that  when  we  were  in  the  prison-house,  a  light 
which  was  greater  than  the  light  of  the  sun  came  down 
upon  this  man,  and  we  heard  a  voice  that  spake  unto 
him,  but  we  saw  no  person."  And  Herod  said  unto 
them,  "  What  did  they  {sic)  say  ?  "  And  the  warders 
said  unto  him,  "  How  great  is  the  joy  and  gladness  !  " 
And  Herod  said  unto  them,  '^' Woe  be  (Fol.  117b, 
col.  2)  unto  you,  O  cursed  ones,  for  by  cunning  ye  are 
associated  with  him  in  sorcery."  And  they  said  unto 
him,  "  To  thee  woe,  O  son  of  Satan,  evil  of  days."  And 
when  Herod  heard  this  he  was  exceedingly  wroth,  and 
he  commanded  his  slaves  to  cut  off  the  heads  of  the 
servants  of  God.  And  when  Saint  Gigar  heard  this  he 
said  unto  those  slaves,  "  Ye  bring  good  news,  for  their 
names  are  written  in  heaven."   And  they  brought  out 

218 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  J^ebanon 

those  glorious  ones  from  the  house  of  Herod  under  a 
dry  oHve  tree,  and  they  cut  off  their  heads  with  a  sharp 
sword,  and  their  blood  flowed  under  the  tree.  Now 
their  number  was  sixteen  (or,  seventeen). 

X.  And  that  olive  tree  put  forth  shoots  and  green 
leaves,  and  the  branches  thereof  pushed  upwards  to  a 
height  of  fifteen  cubits,  and  it  brought  forth  very  fine 
fruit.  And  those  (Fol.  1 17b,  col.  3)  who  came  to  Herod 
from  the  country  and  from  the  cities  used  to  look  at  the 
tree  and  praise  God.  And  when  the  people  told  Herod 
this  he  ordered  them  to  cut  down  the  tree  with  an  axe, 
and  it  fell  upon  the  ground.  And  the  Angel  Sadakyal 
came  down  and  smote  the  men  with  a  sword  of  fire,  and 
not  one  of  them  was  left  alive  ;  now  the  number  of 
those  who  died  under  the  tree  was  nine  and  thirty. 
And  they  told  this  to  Herod,  and  he  was  exceedingly 
angry  and  again  he  sent  forty  soldiers,  and  he  said  unto 
them,  "  Cut  it  up  into  little  pieces,  and  burn  it  in  the 
fire  "  ;  and  the  Angel  of  God  waited  for  them  stand- 
ing under  a  tree.  And  he  said  unto  them,  "  Let  [the 
tree]  alone,  and  turn  ye  to  the  right,  and  to  the  left, 
and  forwards,  and  to  the  rear  "  ;  and  they  did  not  see 
him  that  was  talking  to  them.  And  they  began  to  cut 
up  the  tree,  and  the  Angel  smote  them  with  a  sword  of 
fire,  and  not  one  of  them  was  left  [alive].  And  they 
told  this  to  Herod,  and  said  unto  him,  "  This  that  hath 
happened  is  the  fault  of  Gigar."  And  again,  he  com- 
manded sixty  men  to  kindle  a  fire  under  it,  and  when 
they  came  they  found  the  Angel  of  God  standing  (Fol. 
I  i8a,  col.  i)  as  before  by  the  command  of  God  with  the 
sword  of  fire.  And  when  those  people  saw  him,  they 
spake  among  themselves,  saying,  "  Why  should  we  die 
through  this  accursed  one  ?  The  whole  earth  belongeth 
to  God."  And  when  they  had  said  this  they  departed 
to  Dabra  Libanos,  and  they  came  to  Domitianus,  and 
told  him  everything  that  Herod  had  done,  and  how  he 
had  treated  Saint  Gigar  governor  of  Syria.    And  then 

219 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?i  Mary 

Domitianus  stretched  out  his  two  hands,  and  he  lifted 
up  his  eyes  to  heaven  and  said,  "  Lord  God  of  heaven, 
why  dost  Thou  keep  silent  and  dost  not  hear,  seeing 
with  Thine  eyes  and  hearing  with  Thine  ears,  whilst 
Herod  the  wicked  revileth  Thy  servants  ?  "  And  having 
heard  this  he  shed  tears,  and  said,  "  It  is  better  for  me 
to  die  than  to  hear  this." 

XI.  And  at  midnight  he  heard  a  voice  (Fol.  Ii8a, 
col.  2)  calling  him  and  saying,  "  O  Domitianus,  why  art 
thou  sad  and  sorrowful  ?  Thinkest  thou  that  I  forget 
My  servants  ?  Behold,  from  being  sorrowful  I  make 
them  to  rejoice,  and  I  transport  them  from  poverty  to 
riches."  And  Domitianus  said,  "  Blessed  be  God  Who 
doeth  what  He  willeth."  And  to  the  people  who  had 
come  from  Herod  he  gave  cities  and  gardens,  and  he 
said  unto  them,  "  O  my  brethren,  dwell  ye  here  until 
we  find  the  way  to  talk  to  him  "  ;  and  they  dwelt  there. 
And  the  wicked  Herod  commanded  them  to  bring  the 
kinsfolk  of  Saint  Gigar  from  the  prison-house.  And 
they  took  them  out  to  that  tree  which  we  have  already 
spoken  of,  and  they  cut  off  their  heads  with  the  sharp 
sword,  and  their  blood  flowed  like  water,  and  they  re- 
ceived the  crown  of  martyrdom  in  the  kingdom  of  the 
heavens. 

XII.  (Fol.  1 1 8a,  col.  3)  And  that  olive  tree  again  put 
forth  shoots  from  its  roots  to  the  top  thereof,  and  on 
its  leaves  was  written  a  legend  which  said,  "  It  was 
watered  with  the  blood  of  the  martyrs.  O  Herod,  take 
shame  to  thyself."  And  all  the  people  saw  this,  and 
they  blessed  themselves,  and  marvelled,  and  believed  in 
God.  And  the  people  told  Herod,  and  he  marvelled, 
and  he  commanded  the  builders  to  build  over  it,  and 
not  to  make  any  doors  in  the  building,  so  that  people 
might  not  see  that  olive  tree.  And  by  the  command  of 
God,  the  tree  grew  up  to  a  height  of  nine  and  thirty 
cubits,  and  its  branches  reached  the  ground.  And 
Herod  was  wroth,  and  said,  "  I  believe  that  through 

220 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Le6a?io?t 

Saint  Gigar  and  his  people  this  tree  hath  become  bad  ; 
what  shall  I  say  ?  and  what  shall  I  do  ?  For  many  souls 
shall  be  destroyed  through  it."  And  he  commanded 
them  to  bring  Saint  Gigar  out  of  the  prison-house,  and 
when  they  had  brought  him,  he  said  unto  him,  "  What 
now  is  its  face  ?  "  For  he  was  skilled  in  magic.  And 
(Fol.  1 1 8b,  col.  i)  Saint  Gigar  said,  "  Not  so,  king.  I 
know  no  magic — the  God  of  Israel  knoweth."  And 
Herod  said  unto  him,  "  I  have  never  seen  such  a  magi- 
cian as  thyself,  for  not  only  hast  thou  bewitched  a  man 
but  also  a  tree.  And  thou  hast  written  upon  its  leaves 
that  it  was  watered  with  the  blood  of  the  martyrs,  thus 
insulting  myself."  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  him, 
"  Since  God  hath  insulted  thee  the  insult  is  from  Him." 
And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "Art  thou  God  ?  "  And 
Saint  Gigar  said  unto  him,  "  I  am  not  God,  but  a  ser- 
vant of  God."  And  when  Herod  heard  this  he  gnashed 
his  teeth,  and  rubbed  his  face,  and  [looked]  at  Saint 
Gigar,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Blaspheme  Mary  and 
Domitianus,  so  that  thou  mayest  have  rest  from  thy 
torture."  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  him,  "  Worship 
and  glory  are  due  to  Mary,  and  to  Domitianus  joy  and 
gladness,  and  to  thee  sorrow  and  lamentation.  How 
many  are  the  righteous  men  whom  thou  hast  con- 
demned to  torture  !  (Fol.  i  i8b,  col.  2)  But  as  thou  hast 
tortured  even  so  shalt  thou  be  tortured,  so  that  thou 
mayest  learn  the  power  of  God.  And  behold,  I  will 
show  thee  a  certain  matter."  And  having  said  this  unto 
him,  he  called  the  serpent  which  was  on  the  neck  of 
Herod,  and  it  came  down  to  the  ground.  And  Saint 
Gigar  took  it  in  his  hand,  and  it  became  a  cord  of  silk. 
And  again  he  said  unto  it,  "  Go  back  as  before  "  ;  and 
it  wound  itself  round  the  neck  of  Herod.  And  when 
he  had  shown  him  this  wonder,  Herod  clapped  his 
hands,  and  said,  "  Verily  thou  art  the  prince  of  magi- 
cians." And  he  commanded  the  chief  of  his  guards  to 
beat  him  with  pliant  branches  of  palms,  and  they  laid 

221 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

him  upon  the  ground,  and  they  beat  him  in  turns  until 
his  blood  flowed  like  water  upon  the  ground.  And 
Herod  commanded  them  to  bring  wine,  and  salt,  and 
serpent's  venom,  and  soot,  and  dirt,  and  to  pour  them 
on  his  flesh  and  rub  them  in.  And  they  did  to  him  as 
Herod  commanded  them,  and  the  body  of  Saint  Gigar 
burned  like  fire,  (Fol.  i  i8b,  col.  3)  and  they  rolled  him 
about  on  the  ground  like  a  wheel.  And  Herod  com- 
manded them  to  tie  a  rope  to  his  neck  and  to  fasten  it 
to  a  tree,  and  they  did  to  him  as  Herod  commanded 
them.  And  the  blessed  Gigar  cried  out  with  a  loud 
voice,  and  said,  "  Lord,  how  many  are  those  who  afflict 
me,  many  have  stood  up  against  me,  many  say  unto  my 
soul,  '  Thy  God  cannot  save  thee.'  O  Lord  God  of 
Israel,  help  me.  My  body  burneth  with  fire.  I  have  no 
other  helper  save  Thee.  Thou  art  my  helper,  and  Thou 
art  my  father  and  my  mother,  and  Thou  art  my  God. 
Thou  knowest  that  all  these  things  have  come  upon  me 
because  of  Saint  Mary,  and  because  of  her  glorious  Son, 
and  Domitianus.  Blessed  now  are  ye,  O  my  father  and 
mother  and  brethren,  who  finished  your  strife  at  one 
time."  Now  Herod  was  watching  at  a  distance,  and  he 
said  unto  him,  "  O  son  of  destruction,  who  wast  born 
to  misery,  who  is  able  to  deliver  thee  out  of  my  hand  ? 
(Fol.  1 19a,  col.  i)  And  who  is  he  that  can  help  thee  ? 
Art  not  thou  Gigar,  the  governor  of  Syria  ?  "  And  the 
saint  said  unto  him,  "  Thou  art  Herod,  dog,  and  wicked 
one.  Thou  hast  no  understanding.  As  is  thy  name, 
even  so  is  thy  folly.  And  that  thou  mayest  know  well 
the  meaning  of  the  word  [I  tell  thee]  that  Herod  mean- 
eth  *  wild  swine,'  and  '  wolf,'  and  '  senseless  rag.'  O  son 
of  Satan,  dost  thou  imagine  that  I  expect  life  in  this 
world  ?  Have  I  not  rejected  the  things  of  earth  and 
chosen  the  things  of  heaven  which  neither  grow  old  nor 
perish  ?  And  if  I  knew  that  this  world  would  not  pass 
away  I  would  not  bow  before  thee,  or  lick  the  dust  of 
thy  feet,  and  I  would  not  be  in  subjection  unto  thee. 

222 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

But  this  world  will  pass  away."  And  Herod  said  unto 
him,  "  It  would  be  better  for  thee  to  listen  to  my  words. 
All  this  that  hath  come  upon  thee  is  because  of  Mary 
and  her  Son."  And  the  holy  man  said  unto  him,  "  May 
thou  and  thy  gods  go  down  into  Gehenna."  And  Herod 
said  unto  him,  "  Far  be  it  from  thee,  O  Gigar,  and  may 
it  not  be  thus  !  It  would  be  better  for  thee  if  thou 
wouldst  (Fol.  1 19a,  col.  2)  listen  to  my  words,  and  sacri- 
fice to  my  gods,  having  denied  Mary  and  her  Son." 
And  the  saint  said  unto  him,  "  Cursed  art  thou  and 
cursed  are  thy  gods  !  "  And  Herod  said  unto  him, 
"  Verily  thou  shalt  not  escape  from  my  hand." 

XIII.  And  after  this  Herod  commanded  his  soldiers 
to  cut  off  his  foot,  and  to  take  him  into  the  prison- 
house  ;  and  on  the  following  day  they  brought  him  out 
again,  and  cut  off  his  shoulder,  and  took  him  back  into 
the  prison-house ;  and  on  the  following  day  they 
brought  him  out  again,  and  cut  off  his  right  hand,  and 
took  him  back  into  the  prison-house  ;  and  on  the  fol- 
lowing day  they  brought  him  out  again,  and  cut  off  his 
ear.  And  straightway  Saint  Gigar  looked  up  to  heaven 
to  God,  and  he  said,  "  One  half  of  my  body  is  dead,  and 
one  half  of  my  body  is  alive.  And  now  I  beseech  Thee, 
O  Lord  and  King  of  kings  and  lords,  in  Whose  (Fol. 
1 19a,  col.  3)  hand  are  the  Powers  and  my  death  and  my 
life,  I  desire  to  die  ;  gold  and  silver  are  fleeting  things, 
but  I  have  chosen  that  which  is  not  fleeting."  And 
Herod  commanded  them  to  smite  his  face  and  his 
mouth  with  shoes,  and  the  saint  said,  "  There  is  One 
Who  shall  smite  thee,  the  God  of  Israel,  at  the  Last 
Day,  at  the  resurrection  of  the  dead."  And  Herod  said 
unto  him,  "  I  marvel  at  thee,  O  Gigar  "  ;  and  Saint 
Gigar  said  unto  him,  "  Thou  and  thy  gods  shall  be 
accursed  and  shall  be  destroyed."  And  Herod  said  unto 
Saint  Gigar,  "Art  thou  able  to  live  after  thy  death  ?  " 
And  the  saint  said  unto  him,  "  Yea.  God  commandeth 
.  .  .  over  those  who  are  dead.  And  at  the  time  when 

223 


The  History  of  the  Virgi?j  Mary 

they  are  to  rise  up,  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  their 
bones  shall  rejoin,  and  the  flesh  of  their  bodies  shall 
cover  them,  and  their  spirits  shall  come  upon  them  ; 
(Fol.  1 19b,  col.  i)  the  righteous  shall  be  raised  in  glory 
and  sinners  in  Sheol.  Do  not  then  imagine  that  he  who 
is  praised  here  shall  be  glorified  there  in  the  City  of 
God.  That  [Day]  shall  be  one  of  sorrow,  and  every 
man  shall  be  rewarded  according  to  his  work.  And  to 
Him  are  meet  praise,  and  dominion,  and  glory,  and 
obedience,  now  and  always,  and  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen." 

XIV.  And  then  Herod  commanded  them  to  carry 
Saint  Gigar  to  the  olive  tree.  And  he  found  there  the 
Angel  of  God  under  the  olive  tree,  and  in  his  hand  was 
a  sword  of  blazing  fire.  And  he  said  unto  him,  "  Hail 
to  thee  !  Peace  to  thee,  O  'Azal,  mighty  one,  warrior, 
strong  victor  !  Why  dost  thou  marvel  at  the  majesty  of 
one  who  shall  become  like  a  dove  ?  Behold,  there  have 
come  unto  thee  heaven,  and  earth,  men,  the  beasts  of 
the  earth  and  of  the  abysses,  what  is  visible  and  what  is 
invisible."  And  straightway,  in  a  moment,  He  appeared 
unto  him  as  One  Who  is  visible  and  One  Who  is  in- 
visible. And  forthwith  there  was  [a  flash  of]  lightning 
from  the  east  to  the  (Fol.  119b,  col.  2)  west.  And  He 
said  unto  him,  "  What  sayest  thou,  O  My  second  ?  I 
am  the  Son  of  Mary,  for  Whose  sake  thou  hast  endured 
punishments,  and  trial,  and  suffering.  Verily,  verily,  I 
say  unto  thee,  Thou  shalt  be  counted  with  the  Prophets 
of  olden  time,  and  with  the  Apostles  who  shall  come 
after  thee,  and  thou  shalt  become  an  inheritor  of  the 
kingdom  of  the  heavens.  Now  man  is  dust  and  dross. 
He  loveth  his  friend  and  he  hateth  his  enemy.  And 
according  to  the  degree  that  thou  hast  loved  Me,  O 
Gigar,  blessed  is  the  man  who  shall  remember  thee 
upon  earth,  and  blessed  is  the  man  who  shall  call  his  son 
by  thy  name."  And  He  said  unto  him,  "  Look  on  thy 
right  hand  and  on  thy  left."   And  he  turned  and  saw 

224 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  L,ebano7i 

his  kinsmen  and  his  father,  with  their  faces  shining 
seven  times  more  brightly  than  the  sun,  and  they  were 
whiter  than  milk,  and  they  were  arrayed  in  robes  of 
royalty,  and  on  their  heads  were  crowns  of  glory  which 
were  ornamented  with  pearls  and  sapphires.  And  they 
said  unto  him,  "  Peace  !  God  be  with  thee,  O  (Fol. 
119b,  col.  3)  blessed  Gigar,  who  hast  become  a  guide 
for  us  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  And  Saint  Gigar 
said  unto  them,  "  Who  are  ye  ?  "  And  they  said  unto 
him,  "  Dost  thou  not  know  us  ?  "  And  the  saint  said 
unto  them,  "  I  can  hear  your  voices,  but  I  cannot  see 
your  faces  because  of  the  splendour  that  surroundeth 
you."  And  they  said  unto  him,  "  Thy  glad  tidings ! 
Thy  face  is  more  beautiful  than  our  faces,  and  thine 
apparel  is  more  beautiful  than  ours,  and  thy  condition 
is  more  beautiful  than  ours.  As  the  sun  is  more  beauti- 
ful than  the  moon,  even  so  is  thy  light  greater  than 
ours."  And  again,  they  said  unto  him,  "  We  make 
petition  unto  thee,  O  blessed  Gigar,  for  because  of  thee 
the  holy  prophets  have  known  us.  And  the  good  (or, 
chosen)  angels  go  round  about  thee  every  day,  and  they 
say  unto  thee,  '  O  'Azal,  who  hast  conquered  Satan, 
and  hast  made  the  world  an  alien  thing  !  And  now,  be 
strong  and  mighty,  and  fear  not.  One  half  of  thy  body 
is  dead,  and  the  other  half  of  it  is  alive.' "  And  the  saint 
said  unto  them,  "  Remember  ye  me  in  your  prayers." 
And  they  said  unto  him,  "  The  God  of  Israel  be  with 
you  "  ;  (Fol.  120a,  col.  i)  and  they  disappeared  from 
his  sight. 

XV.  And  again  he  turned  towards  the  east,  and  he 
saw  God  sitting  upon  His  chariot  which  blazed  with 
fire,  and  there  were  ten  thousand  [angels]  on  His  right 
hand,  and  ten  thousand  on  His  left  hand,  and  ten 
thousand  before  Him,  and  ten  thousand  behind  Him. 
And  shining  angels  were  encircling  them  like  a  wall,  and 
they  were  singing  praises  with  hymns  that  cannot  be 
described  and  that  were  marvellous  to  hear.  And  God 

Q  225 


The  History  of  the  Virgm  Mary 

said  unto  him,  "  Have  I  not  done  this  for  thee  before 
thy  soul  departeth  from  thy  body  ?  And  I  have  brought 
unto  thee  thy  father,  and  thy  mother,  and  all  thy  kins- 
folk, and  also  thy  wife  and  thy  children,  so  that  thy  soul 
might  rejoice  at  the  sight  of  them."  And  the  saint  said 
unto  Him,  "  What  do  I  take  from  them  more  than  the 
life  of  my  soul  ?  But  Thee  do  I  love."  And  God  said 
unto  him,  "  Verily  thou  dost  love  Me  ;  thou  hast  given 
thyself  for  Me.  Behold,  I  decree  that  thy  hands,  and 
thy  feet,  and  thy  nose,  (Fol.  120a,  col.  2)  and  thine  ears, 
shall  become  as  they  were  before,  uninjured."  And  his 
members  became  as  they  had  been  formerly,  uninjured, 
and  his  body  was  renewed,  and  his  face  shone  so 
brightly  with  the  light  of  God  that  the  servants  of 
Herod  were  unable  to  look  at  him.  And  our  Lord 
blessed  him,  and  went  up  into  heaven  with  great 
glory. 

XVI.  And  then  the  guards  of  the  prison-house  of 
Herod  went  and  told  him,  saying,  "  Long  live  thy  king- 
dom which  endureth  for  ever  !  Behold,  the  sun  rose 
upon  us  at  midnight,  and  we  heard  the  saint  talking  to 
it,  but  the  speech  of  the  sun  we  did  not  understand. 
And  behold,  he  was  alive  in  the  prison-house,  and  no 
injury  whatsoever  had  come  upon  him.  And  as  for  us, 
we  believe  in  his  God."  And  Herod  said  unto  them  with 
wrath,  rubbing  himself,  "  Woe  unto  you,  O  ye  accursed 
ones  !  Hath  he  bewitched  you  also  ?  "  And  they  said 
unto  him,  "  God  forbid  that  thou  shouldst  speak  thus 
against  that  righteous  man.  We  are  his  witnesses  of 
what  we  have  heard  of  the  words  of  his  mouth."  And 
Herod  was  wroth,  (Fol.  120a,  col.  3)  and  he  ordered  six 
of  his  bodyguard  to  punish  them  and  to  beat  them  with 
silken  (?)  cords  ;  and  he  commanded  them  to  bring 
Saint  Gigar  out  of  the  prison-house.  And  when  Saint 
Gigar  had  come  he  saw  the  guards  beating  the  people 
with  silken  (?)  ropes,  and  he  said  unto  them,  "  O  ye 
people  who  have  given  yourselves  to  the  Great  King, 

226 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  L,ebanon 

bear  ye  patiently  and  fear  not,  for  ye  shall  receive 
crowns  and  a  habitation  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
which  shall  never,  never  pass  away.  Amen."  And  they 
all  answered  with  one  voice  and  said  unto  him,  "  Pray 
for  us,  O  our  father."  And  Saint  Gigar  passed  on  from 
there,  and  came  to  the  place  where  Herod  was,  and 
Herod  said  unto  him,  "  How  greatly  hast  thou  cor- 
rupted my  soldiers  by  thy  magic  !  "  And  the  saint  said 
unto  him,  "  I  am  waiting  for  the  God  of  Israel  to  help 
me."  And  Herod  commanded  that  a  herald  should  go 
round  calling  upon  all  the  people  to  gather  themselves 
together.  And  he  said  unto  his  servants,  "  Go  ye  and 
open  out  that  hedge  of  olive  trees,  so  that  ye  can  cut 
off  the  heads  of  (Fol.  120b,  col.  i)  Saint  Gigar  and 
those  eight  and  twenty  guardians  of  the  prison-house." 
And  they  did  as  he  commanded  them,  and  all  the  people 
followed  them,  so  that  they  might  see  the  conclusion 
of  the  matter.  And  when  Saint  Gigar  came  to  the  olive 
trees,  he  stretched  out  his  hands,  and  lifted  up  his  eyes 
to  heaven,  and  said,  "  Behold,  the  consummation  of  my 
testimony  hath  come.  Command,  O  my  Lord  God, 
that  the  Angel  of  Death  shall  not  terrify  me,  and  that 
the  Angel  of  Darkness  shall  not  make  me  afraid.  I  have 
sought  after  Thy  commandment,  I  have  completed  my 
chosen  task,  I  have  yoked  myself  to  my  equal,  I  have 
ploughed  my  fields,  let  not  my  furrow  fall  down. 
Guide  me,  O  Lord,  in  the  way  wherein  I  am  to  walk, 
strengthen  me  by  Thy  Word,  remove  far  from  me  the 
path  of  violence,  O  Lord,  Thou  Lord  God  of  Israel, 
because  I  have  forsaken  father,  and  mother,  and  chil- 
dren, and  likewise  the  world,  and  all  that  is  therein.  O 
Lord  God  of  Israel,  remember  not  the  sin  of  myself 
Thy  servant.  Thou  knowest  the  feebleness  of  men,  and 
that  (Fol.  1 20b,  col.  2)  they  cannot  live  for  a  single  hour 
without  sin.  And  now,  not  in  my  righteousness,  and 
not  in  my  strength  do  I  speak  before  Thee,  for  well  do 
I  know  my  sin.  O  Lord,  place  Thou  my  portion  with 

227 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

those  who  have  pleased  thee  in  their  lives ;  unto  Thee 
be  the  praise  for  ever  and  ever.   Amen." 

And  again  he  prayed  so  that  the  following  men  of 
the  sword  might  not  hear  him,  [viz.,]  Bedrasab'el,  'Eda- 
sab'el,  Deyadeske'el,  Tonoyaskeb'el,  Adma'el,  Maryo- 
tas,  Melyonas,  'Ameyoy  'Adonaya  Saba'ot,  [saying,] 
"  I  have  believed  on  Thee,  believe  Thou  me  and  deny 
me  not  before  Thy  holy  angels.  And  it  is  not  that  I 
fear  the  death  which  is  momentary,  but  I  fear  that  I 
shall  not  return  to  Herod  who  hath  wrought  sin  against 
me.  Forgive  me  and  Thy  servants  who  were  before  me. 
Do  as  Thou  wishest  in  contending  against  him,  so  that 
he  may  not  hold  back  from  them  the  justice  which  they 
have  meditated  in  their  hearts,  and  so  that  he  may  not 
bring  upon  me  their  punishment.  For  unto  Thee  be- 
long the  power,  and  great  dominion,  and  praise  (Fol. 
i2ob,  col.  3)  for  ever  and  ever." 

And  he  heard  a  voice  which  surrounded  him  saying 
in  the  Hebrew  language,  "  O  blessed  Gigar,  heaven  and 
earth  shall  pass  away,  but  My  word  shall  not  pass  away. 
Have  I  not  said  unto  thee  on  another  occasion  '  I  am 
He  '  ?  Come,  let  us  go  up  into  heaven  that  thou  may- 
est  see  what  I  have  prepared  for  thee,  a  crown,  and  a 
habitation,  and  thrones,  which  cannot  be  gazed  upon 
with  polluted  eyes."  And  suddenly  Elijah  caught  him 
up  into  his  chariot  to  the  heights  of  heaven,  and  he 
saw  there  everything  that  had  been  promised  to  him, 
the  abode  of  the  prophets,  and  the  abode  of  the  righte- 
ous, and  the  abode  of  the  faithful,  and  the  abode  of  the 
holy  old  men,  and  the  abode  of  beautiful  children,  and 
the  abode  of  the  young  men  and  virgins  who  were  to 
come  after  him,  and  of  those  who  had  been  before  him, 
and  the  abode  of  the  sinners  who  had  been  condemned 
to  punishment,  each  according  to  his  sin.  And  he  saw 
Herod  in  Jahannam,  in  appearance  as  black  as  a  raven, 
and  the  angels  were  smiting  him  with  a  sword  of  fire. 
And  he  also  saw  all  (Fol.  121a,  col.  i)  his  fathers  and 

22$ 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

kinsfolk  surrounded  by  those  who  had  become  martyrs 
before  him,  and  they  were  saying,  "  O  wicked  Herod, 
where  is  thy  glory  ?  And  what  hath  become  of  thy 
kingdom  ?  And  what  hath  become  of  thy  soldiers  in 
whom  thou  didst  boast  thyself  ?  Look  thou  upon  the 
light  of  us  who,  being  fools,  are  shining  with  the  light 
of  God  !  Where  are  Apollo,  and  Artemis,  and  Sarapis 
in  whom  thou  didst  put  thy  trust  ?  Cursed  art  thou, 
O  son  of  Satan  ;  thy  glory  cometh  from  us.  Where  art 
thou,  O  thou  who  didst  exalt  thyself  ?  " 

And  when  Saint  Gigar  had  seen  this  the  Angel 
brought  him  back  to  the  wood  of  olive  trees,  and  he 
said  unto  the  soldiers,  "  Now  is  completed  your  desire 
(command  ?)  wherewith  ye  have  been  commanded." 
And  the  soldiers  said  unto  him,  "  Thy  God,  the  Living 
One,  knoweth  that  we  will  not  lay  [our  hands]  upon 
thee,  for  we  have  seen  the  angels  with  crowns  in  their 
hands  praising  thee.  Behold,  we  revile  Herod,  and  we 
love  thy  heavenly  God."  Now  the  number  of  those 
(Fol.  I2ia,  col.  2)  mighty  men  of  war  was  nine  and 
forty.  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  them,  "  Fulfil  ye  the 
command  of  your  captain.  \i  the  God  of  Israel  willeth 
ye  shall  be  saved,  and  if  He  willeth  it  not  ye  shall  be 
destroyed.  Blessed  be  God  Who  hath  willed  to  work." 
And  the  soldiers  said  unto  him,  "  As  the  Lord  thy  God 
liveth,  we  will  not  lay  our  hands  upon  thee."  And  the 
saint  said  unto  them,  "  Except  ye  complete  my  martyr- 
dom ye  shall  have  no  part  with  me  "  ;  and  when  they 
heard  these  words  they  wept  and  groaned  in  great  agony 
and  pain.  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto  them,  "  Your  sins 
and  transgressions  are  forgiven  you."  And  then  he 
bowed  his  neck  and  holy  head,  and  they  cut  it  off  with 
the  sharp-edged  sword,  and  it  fell  upon  the  ground,  and 
a  stream  of  clear  water  sprang  up  from  that  wood  of 
olive  trees  like  a  great  river.  And  there  dripped  from 
his  neck  milk,  and  water,  and  blood,  by  means  of  which 
the  sick  folk  were  healed,  and  the  lepers  were  cleansed, 

229 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

and  devils  went  forth  from  those  who  were  possessed 
of  them.  And  when  the  soldiers  saw  these  things  they 
lifted  up  their  voices,  (Fol.  121a,  col.  3)  and  said, 
"  There  is  no  god  except  the  God  of  Saint  Gigar." 
And  there  were  three  hundred  and  six  other  men  who 
believed  in  God,  and  they  went  to  their  houses,  and 
passed  the  night  there.  And  certain  believing  men 
came  and  took  the  body  of  the  saint,  and  wrapped  it  in 
linen,  and  buried  it  in  a  cave  secretly.  And  when  they 
came  to  his  country  they  described  to  Herod  the  might 
of  the  faith  of  Saint  Gigar,  and  how  he  had  made  the 
people  to  believe.  And  Herod  commanded  the  soldiers 
to  cut  off  their  heads  with  the  sword,  and  they  cut 
them  all  off,  and  these  men  received  the  incorruptible 
crown  of  martyrdom  in  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens. 
May  their  prayer  be  with  us  for  ever  and  ever  !  Amen. 
XVn.  And  on  the  following  day  Herod  went  forth 
from  his  place  to  see  that  stream  of  water  and  [to  hear] 
the  story  of  the  righteous  men.  And  when  he  came  to 
the  wood  of  olive  trees  Saint  Gigar  came  to  him  riding 
upon  a  horse  of  white  fire  ;  and  in  his  hand  (Fol.  121b, 
col.  i)  was  a  spear  of  blazing  fire,  and  there  were  with 
him  the  men  who  had  been  martyred  before  him  and 
after  him,  and  they  were  mounted  upon  horses  even  as 
was  he.  And  they  said  unto  him,  "  What  seekest  thou, 
O  accursed  one,  thou  son  of  Satan  ?  Dost  thou  imagine 
that  thou  wilt  be  able  to  slay  us  a  second  time  ?  "  And 
Saint  Gigar  seized  Herod  by  his  right  hand,  and  smote 
him  three  blows,  and  blood  and  pus  flowed  from  his 
ears  until  the  day  of  his  death.  And  Saint  Gigar  said 
unto  him,  "  Let  judgement  be  judged  between  me  and 
thee.  If  I  did  not  fear  the  commandment  of  God  I 
would  turn  thee  into  ashes  and  all  thy  soldiers  with 
thee.  And  now  forsake  thou  the  way  of  error  "  ;  and 
Herod  turned  to  the  right  hand  and  to  the  left,  and 
wished  to  depart  and  flee.  And  Saint  Gigar  said  unto 
him,  "  Forsake  the  way  of  error,  but  thou  shalt  not  be 

230 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

able  to  snatch  thyself  away  from  me.  If  thou  goest  into 
thy  palace  there  shall  I  be,  and  if  thou  ascendest  into 
heaven  there  thou  shalt  find  me."  And  Herod  de- 
scended from  his  horse,  and  bowed  low  upon  the 
ground,  and  he  said,  (Fol.  121b,  col.  2)  "  I  cannot  hear 
thy  voice,  and  thy  face  is  invisible."  And  the  saint  said 
unto  him,  "  Didst  thou  not  see  me  when  I  was  in  the 
prison-house,  O  Herod,  thou  blind  man  ?  How  shalt 
thou,  being  a  wicked  man,  be  able  to  see  me  ?  Now  if 
thou  becomest  a  good  man  thou  shalt  see  me  when  I 
come  in  glory  with  my  Lord.  The  day  of  destruction 
shall  come  upon  thee  and  upon  those  who  are  like  thee." 
And  Herod  said  unto  him,  "  Who  is  thy  Lord,  and  thy 
God,  and  thy  King  ?  "  And  the  saint  said  unto  him, 
"  It  is  He  Whom  thou  hatest,  and  Whom  thou  didst 
drive  out  from  city  to  city  ;  but  there  shall  come  to 
thee  a  day  when  thou  shalt  be  driven  out,  though  there 
be  none  who  driveth  thee.  And  now  understand,  O 
wicked  one,  that  house  of  thine  shall  be  removed  "  ; 
and  having  said  these  things  unto  him  the  saint  dis- 
appeared from  him.  And  forty  angel  soldiers  came 
down  from  heaven,  and  wrapped  the  bodies  of  the 
martyrs  up  in  royal  raiment,  and  the  four  and  twenty 
priests  of  heaven  censed  them  with  censers  [filled  with] 
myrrh,  aloes  (or,  almonds),  and  cassia,  and  buried  them 
in  a  grave.  (Fol.  121b,  col.  3)  And  then  the  angels  went 
up  into  heaven. 

And  then  the  Angel  Gabriel  went  down  from  heaven 
into  the  city  of  Lebanon  to  the  Virgin  Mary.  And  he 
said  unto  her,  "  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  daughter  of 
David  !  It  is  not  seemly  for  thee  to  dwell  here.  But 
rise  up  and  depart  into  Bethlehem,  and  thence  thou 
shalt  go  down  into  Egypt,  so  that  may  come  to  pass  and 
be  fulfilled  that  which  hath  been  said  [by  the  Prophet], 
''  Out  of  Egypt  have  I  called  My  Son.'  "  And  our  Lady 
Mary  said  unto  the  Angel,  "  Thou  thyself  knowest 
everything   that   hath   happened   unto   me   through 

231 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

Herod.  And  now,  if  I  go  there,  he  will  kill  me,  and  my 
Son,  and  those  who  are  with  me."  And  the  Angel 
Gabriel  said  unto  her,  "  Fear  thou  not,  for  God  is  with 
thee,  and  no  untoward  thing  shall  come  upon  thee,  for 
the  authority  of  Herod  shall  have  no  power  whatsoever 
over  thee."  And  when  the  Angel  had  said  these  things 
unto  her  he  went  up  into  heaven. 

XVni.  And  on  the  following  day  Joseph  called 
Domitianus  unto  Mary  the  Virgin  ;  (Fol.  122a,  col.  i) 
and  Domitianus  left  his  soldiers,  and  went  up  to  the 
place  where  Mary  the  Virgin  was,  and  he  had  with  him 
three  hundred  and  forty  chariots.  And  he  came  to  the 
place  where  our  Lady  was,  and  he  fell  down  on  his  knees 
before  her,  and  said  unto  her,  "  What  hath  happened 
unto  thee  ?  I  am  troubled  by  reason  of  my  coming  unto 
thee."  And  he  brought  out  and  presented  unto  her 
seventy  dinars  of  gold,  and  thirty  pearls,  and  sixty  gems, 
and  one  hundred  sapphires,  and  one  hundred  and  fifty 
karkaden  gems,  and  other  precious  stones  innumerable, 
and  six  hundred  pieces  of  linen  apparel  of  great  price. 
And  our  Lady  raised  him  up  from  the  ground,  and  said 
unto  him,  "  May  the  God  of  Israel  bless  thee,  and  make 
thee  to  hear  of  the  destruction  of  Herod  during  thy 
lifetime."  And  Domitianus  said,  "Amen  and  Amen." 
And  our  Lady  Mary  said  unto  him,  "  Thou  shalt  not 
die  before  thou  art  an  old  man  "  ;  and  Domitianus 
said,  "Amen."  And  our  Lady  Mary  also  said  unto  him, 
"  No  man,  except  thy  son,  shall  ever  sit  upon  thy 
throne.  No  white  cold  (i.e.  snow)  shall  descend  (Fol. 
122a,  col.  2)  upon  the  earth,  nor  any  kind  of  locust, 
black  or  white,  winged  or  unwinged  ;  and  there  shall 
never  be  any  famine  in  thy  country.  The  vines  shall 
bear  fruit,  the  fig  trees  shall  yield  fruit  and  butter,  and 
the  sugar  cane  shall  give  sweetness.  Thy  cows  shall 
yield  milk,  and  shall  bring  forth  young  in  pairs,  a  male 
and  a  female,  and  they  shall  only  die  through  old  age. 
And  thy  horses  shall  roam  freely,  and  those  who  would 

232 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

put  a  bridle  on  them  shall  not  catch  them,  and  those 
who  would  send  them  out  of  the  country  shall  not  be 
able  to  seize  them.  I  have  committed  thee,  O  my  son, 
to  Him  Who  is  able  to  save,  Degadigade,  Gedragedeg, 
'Amanyas,  'Apar,  Yagadigad,  Fekraste'el,  Yorsab'el, 
'Ema'el.  My  son,  where  shall  I  find  any  like  unto  thee  ? 
For  thou  hast  delivered  me  from  Herod,  the  wicked 
man  and  unbeliever,  O  my  son,  whom  I  have  brought 
forth  at  my  coming  into  the  mountains  of  Lebanon, 
not  in  the  flesh  but  in  the  spirit,  and  the  children  of 
the  spirit  are  superior  to  the  children  of  the  flesh  four- 
teen (Fol.  122a,  col.  3)  times."  And  as  she  was  saying 
these  things  her  tears  streamed  down  on  the  cheeks  of 
the  Child.  And  she  spake  thus  :  "  Salutation  unto  you, 
O  ye  mountains  of  Lebanon.  I  will  go  to  the  house  of 
my  father,  and  whether  I  shall  die  or  live  I  know  not." 
And  Domitianus  said  unto  her,  "  Why  wilt  thou  go 
away  and  forsake  thy  country  which  thou  hast  made 
populous  by  thy  prayer  ?  Dwell  thou  upon  my 
throne,  I  and  my  wife  will  minister  unto  thee,  and  all 
the  people  and  multitudes  will  worship  thee."  And  our 
Lady  Mary  said  unto  him,  "  God  give  thee  a  kingdom 
that  shall  never,  never  come  to  an  end  "  ;  and  she  told 
him  everything  that  the  Angel  had  said  unto  her.  And 
they  passed  the  night  there. 

XIX.  And  at  the  time  of  midnight  Domitianus 
stood  up  and  stretched  out  his  hands,  and  lifted  up  his 
eyes  to  heaven,  and  said,  "  O  Lord  God  of  Israel, 
hearken  unto  my  prayer,  and  let  my  cry  come  before 
Thee.  I  call  unto  Thee  at  this  moment  of  difficulty 
concerning  the  departure  of  (Fol.  122b,  col.  i)  Saint 
Mary.  If  I  let  her  depart  she  will  fall  into  the  hand  of 
Herod  with  her  Child,  and  their  blood  will  return  upon 
me,  and  if  I  prevent  her  I  am  afraid  lest  she  will  be 
wroth  with  me.  Reveal  unto  me,  O  Lord,  a  plan  that 
shall  be  beneficial  both  for  her  and  for  me."  And  he 
prostrated  himself  upon  the  ground  forty  times,  and 

233 


The  History  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

tears  streamed  from  his  eyes.  And  forthwith  the  Angel 
Uriel  came  down  to  him,  and  said,  "  The  peace  of  God 
be  with  thee  !  Behold,  thy  grief  and  thy  tears  have 
ascended  before  God  as  a  memorial  of  thee.  And  now, 
desist  from  thy  concern  about  the  road  of  Mary,  so 
that  she  may  go  into  Bethlehem,  and  pass  thence  into 
Egypt,  in  order  that  there  may  be  fulfilled  the  Word  of 
God  which  was  said  by  the  Prophet,  '  Out  of  Egypt 
have  I  called  My  Son.'  "  And  the  Angel  also  said  unto 
Domitianus,  "  Behold,  thou  hast  heard  great  and  gra- 
cious things,  and  many  blessings."  And  he  shewed  him 
the  cross  that  was  in  his  hand,  and  said  unto  him,  "  Do 
(Fol.  122b,  col.  2)  thus,  so  that  thou  mayest  conquer 
thine  enemy  "  ;  and  having  said  these  things  unto  him, 
he  went  up  into  heaven. 

And  when  the  dawn  had  come  Domitianus  rose  up 
and  went  to  Saint  Mary,  and  did  homage  to  her,  and 
said  unto  her,  "  Go  wheresoever  thou  wishest  "  ;  and 
he  gave  unto  her  that  gift  [of  precious  stones].  And  our 
Lady  Mary  said  unto  him,  "  God  give  thee  good 
things,"  and  she  refused  [his  gift],  saying,  "  Go,  get 
thee  down  into  thy  country,  and  give  [it]  to  the  poor 
and  needy,  so  that  thou  mayest  obtain  interest."  And 
Domitianus  bowed  low  before  her  and  said  unto  her, 
"  Take  it,  O  my  Lady,  so  that  it  may  be  unto  thee  a 
provision  for  the  way."  And  our  Lady  Mary  said  unto 
him,  "  Verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  O  Domitianus,  I  do  not 
wish  for  this  greatly  in  my  heart,  for  I  esteem  my  gold 
and  silver  as  nought  if  only  I  can  escape  from  the  hand 
of  Herod  ;  if  only  this  gift  [could  give  me  this !]." 
And  when  Domitianus  heard  this  he  was  exceedingly 
sorrowful,  and  he  left  our  Lady  and  mounted  his 
chariot,  and  he  went  before  her  for  a  whole  day's  jour- 
ney until  he  brought  her  into  the  hills  of  Tona,  where 
the  land  of  Judah  came  in  sight.  And  our  Lady  turned 
round  [and  looked]  (Fol.  122b,  col.  3)  behind  her,  and 
she  wept,  saying,  "  Salutation  to  you,  O  ye  mountains 

234 


Her  Flight  to  Mount  Lebanon 

of  Lebanon  !  For  with  you  I  was  produced  from  my 
father  and  mother,  and  I  shall  see  his  light  for  ever. 
Salutation  to  you,  O  ye  mountains  of  Lebanon,  which 
shall  blossom  in  beauty  and  shall  bring  forth  flowers  of 
sweet  odour  !  Salutation  to  you,  O  ye  daughters  who 
dwell  in  the  mountains  of  Lebanon  !  Come  ye  and 
weep  over  me,  for  I  am  going  to  die  the  death  of  per- 
dition." And  when  Domitianus  heard  this  he  wept  bit- 
terly, and  Joseph  and  Salome  also  wept.  And  Domiti- 
anus said  unto  Mary,  "  If  I  take  thee  back  into  my 
country  I  fear  that  God  will  be  wroth  with  me,  and  if 
I  let  thee  depart  my  heart  will  burn  for  love  of  thee. 
And  I  am  also  afraid  because  of  Herod,  for  I  know  that 
that  man  raveneth  more  than  the  lion  to  kill  life.  What 
shall  I  say  concerning  thee  ?  But  I  will  tell  thee  one 
thing.  If  Herod  should  seek  thee,  send  one  of  thy  men 
to  me,  and  I  will  come  to  thee.  And  (Fol.  123a,  col.  i) 
if  the  God  of  Israel  permit  me  I  will  lay  waste  all  Judah 
and  all  Jerusalem,  as  far  as  Misr  (Babylon  of  Egypt)  and 
Egypt,  as  far  as  Zebulon  and  Naphthali  and  Heshbon. 
Not  only  will  I  slay  man  and  woman,  but  I  will  cut 
down  their  trees,  and  I  will  not  leave  their  crops  stand- 
ing ;  and  I  will  make  the  country  (Fol.  123a,  col.  2)  to 
become  ashes,  and  I  will  lay  waste  their  cities."  And 
when  she  heard  these  words  her  heart  was  comforted 
in  her  sorrow  ;  and  he  passed  the  night  there,  and  on 
the  following  day  they  embraced  each  other.  And 
Domitianus  rose  up  and  returned  to  his  own  country, 
being  sad  and  sorrowful  for  the  sake  of  Saint  Mary. 
(Fol.  123a,  col.  3)  And  Mary  departed  on  her  way, 
praising  the  Holy  Trinity. 


235 


SALUTATIONS  TO  THE  MEMBERS  OF  THE 
BODY  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY 

[A.  Fol.  loib,  col.  I  ff.] 

I.  IV  yTAY  God  the  Father,  the  Giver  of  Light, 
IVx  Who  being  One  is  yet  Three  in  Person, 
Who  showeth  forth  might  in  His  Divinity  and 
Power,  illumine  the  eye  of  mine  understanding  w^ith 
the  lamp  of  wisdom  and  the  beauty  of  His  splendour, 
that  it  may  see  the  face  of  the  word  of  thy  Covenant, 
O  Mary,  as  is  meet,  thou  Lady  of  all  celestial  and  ter- 
restrial beings. 

2.  Salutation  to  the  memorial  of  thy  name,  O  thou 
who  art  like  the  star  which  is  seen  by  the  people  even 
when  dark  clouds  have  overshadowed  the  light  thereof. 
O  Mary,  thou  Covenant  of  God,  thou  hope  of  salva- 
tion, did  not  the  mind  of  the  first  father  find  consola- 
tion in  thee  when  he  was  driven  forth  from  his  Paradise 
in  bitter  sorrow? 

3.  Salutation  to  the  hair  of  thy  head,  which  is 
without  blemish,  and  is  like  unto  a  double  thread  of 
purple  that  is  drenched  with  the  dew  of  all  good 
things.  O  Mary,  thou  who  art  thyself  the  Covenant  of 
mercy  which  thou  didst  establish  before  the  congre- 
gation, entreat  Him  to  bestow  upon  me  the  life  of  the 
soul  as  a  gift  of  grace  after  the  manner  of  Elijah,  for 
doth  not  He  make  me  to  live  in  the  body  ? 

4.  Salutation  to  thy  head  is  meet  from  every  cre- 
ated being,  O  Mary,  because  thou  didst  stablish  a  Cove- 
nant with  Him  Who  is  and  Who  shall  be.  Now  we  have 
made  a  Covenant  with  death,  and  we  have  sworn  an 
oath  unto  those  who  say,  "  They  have  spoken  in  vain 
and  have  destroyed  their  own  souls." 

236 


PLATE  XXK 


Lady  Meux  MS.  No.  3,fol.  49^. 


Certain  thieves  watch  Zacharias  pLacing  a  wreath  of  roses  on  the  head  of 
the  Virgin,  and  flowers  falUng  from  his  mouth  as  he  addresses  her.  The 
thieves  repent  and  become  monks.  Note  that  the  Child  rests  on  the  right 
arm  of  Mary 


Salutations  to  the  Virgin  Mary 

5.  Salutation  to  thy  face,  O  holy  and  glorious  face, 
the  splendour  of  which  is  greater  than  the  splendour 
of  the  sun  and  moon.  Thou  wast  the  token  of  the  Cove- 
nant, O  Mary,  and  the  shining  bow  in  the  cloud  from 
God,  the  Merciful,  when  thou  didst  remove  Noah  from 
the  destruction  of  the  earth,  [and  didst  promise  him] 
that  there  should  be  no  more  a  flood. 

6.  Salutation  to  thine  eyelashes,  which  were  set  to 
guard  [thine]  eyes,  and  to  take  the  place  of  veils  and 
coverings.  O  Mary,  say  thou  unto  Him  to  Whom  thou 
didst  give  birth  without  carnal  union  with  man, 
"  Where  is  Thy  Word,  O  Lord,  which  saith  :  For  thy 
sake  I  will  have  compassion  upon  sinners  when  they 
shall  call  upon  thy  name,  Vv^hich  shall  be  proclaimed  ?  " 

7.  Salutation  to  thine  eyes  which  are  like  two  lamps 
that  have  been  suspended  by  a  cunning  workman  in  the 
exalted  palace  of  thy  body.  O  Mary,  thou  art  the 
fountain  of  lovingkindness  and  compassion  !  Save  me, 
then,  by  thy  word,  and  deliver  me  from  destruction, 
for  without  thy  help  no  one  is  able  to  save  himself. 

8.  Salutation  to  thine  ears  whereinto  were  poured 
the  glad  tidings  by  the  mouth  of  the  Creator,  thy  Son, 
that  thy  Pearl  should  be  preserved.  I  adjure  thee,  O 
Mary,  let  me  not  see  judgement  without  having  per- 
formed [good]  deeds,  for  without  them  I  shall  be  un- 
able to  justify  myself.  Shall  thy  Covenant  have  been 
made  for  nought  ? 

9.  Salutation  to  thy  cheeks  which  are  like  roses  and 
pomegranates ;  the  languor  thereof  is  fire,  and  the  tears 
thereof  are  mingled  with  flame.  According  to  thy  Cove- 
nant, O  Mary,  lift  thou  me  up  into  the  Field  of  De- 
light. Woe  be  unto  us  !  Woe  be  unto  us  if  the  spirits 
shall  say  in  the  Judgement,  "  One  is  Aholibah  and  the 
other  Aholah  "  (see  Ezekiel  xxiii,  4). 

10.  Salutation  to  thy  nostrils,  the  double  opening 
of  life,  which  God  fashioned  in  cunning  beauty  with 
His  wise  and  understanding  fingers.   O  Mary,  hedge 

237 


Salutations  to  the  Membef^s  of 

thou  me  about  against  temptation  with  the  power  of 
thy  Covenant,  and  when  the  Serpent  yawneth  with  his 
mouth  to  swallow  me  up,  do  thou  bruise  his  head  with 
the  rods  of  pain  and  disease. 

11.  Salutation  to  thy  lips  which  have  asked  from 
God,  the  Merciful  One,  the  Covenant  of  Mercy  on 
behalf  of  sinners,  and  have  taken  a  solemn  oath  on 
Golgotha,  O  Mary,  where  thou  didst  withdraw  thy- 
self from  Galilee.  The  righteousness  of  thy  Covenant 
is  the  cause  of  festal  rejoicing  unto  each  and  every  one. 
Lay  thou  a  crown  upon  the  head  of  the  sinner,  thy 
servant. 

12.  Salutation  to  thy  mouth,  the  mouth  blessed 
abundantly,  the  holy  gate,  the  Book.  I  have  taken 
refuge,  O  Mary,  in  thy  Covenant  which  hath  been  ac- 
cepted, therefore  let  me  not  be  put  to  shame  before  thy 
Son,  and  before  His  thousands  of  angels,  when  the  root 
of  the  tongue  shall  be  cut  through  and  the  mouth  be 
sealed. 

13.  Salutation  to  thy  teeth  which  are  like  unto  a 
flock  of  sheep  that  have  been  shorn,  and  have  gone 
forth  from  the  bath  (Song  of  Solomon  iv,  2)  brilliantly 
white  ;  take  thou,  O  Mary,  in  the  place  of  a  gift  from 
me  a  tithe  of  thy  Covenant.  And  let  the  arms  of  thy 
prayer  do  evil  unto  my  Egyptian  adversary,  which  is  his 
heart's  lust,  and  [let  them  bury  him  even  as]  Moses 
buried  him  in  the  sand  (Exodus  ii,  12). 

14.  Salutation  to  thy  tongue,  O  thou  whom  the 
priests  of  heaven,  the  Seraphim  who  stand  before  the 
Trinity,  proclaim  holy  with  perpetual  songs  of  sanctifi- 
cation.  Make  thou  me  to  remember,  O  Mary,  the 
commemoration  of  thy  Covenant  at  the  time  of  de- 
struction, even  as  Joshua  made  Israel  when  in  the  desert 
to  remember  the  Covenant  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob,  and  the  righteousness  of  Moses. 

15.  Salutation  to  thy  voice  which  returned  speech 
unto  the  word  of  the  angel  of  mystery,  Gabriel,  whose 

238 


the  Body  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

apparel  shone  with  splendour.  O  Mary,  thou  holy 
woman  of  God,  thou  seat  of  His  power.  Hail !  Hail  ! 
For  unto  thee  the  Covenant  of  Mercy  and  His  com- 
passion were  given  that  by  means  thereof  sinners  might 
be  able  to  become  righteous. 

i6.  Salutation  to  thy  breathings,  the  breathings  of 
health,  which  heal  the  souls  of  sinners,  and  those  who 
have  become  wounded  by  the  poison  of  the  Serpent. 
By  thy  Covenant,  O  Mary,  do  away  my  sins,  for  with- 
out thy  Covenant  and  the  Cross  of  Christ,  the  Heir, 
there  is  none  who  can  deliver  a  man  from  Sheol. 

17.  Salutation  to  thy  sweet  and  beautiful  throat 
wherein  are  separated  [words],  the  bitter  from  the 
sweet.  What  shall  I  do,  O  Mary  ?  For  my  strength  is 
worn  out,  and  on  every  side  matters  are  hard  for  me, 
and  the  world  putteth  me  in  sore  straits  ;  but  comfort 
thou  me,  O  mother,  by  means  of  thy  Covenant. 

1 8.  Salutation  to  thy  neck,  the  appearance  of  which 
is  as  the  tower  of  David,  and  the  foundation  of  which 
hath  been  laid  in  a  lofty  place  (Song  of  Solomon  iv,  4). 
O  Mary,  speak  thou  into  the  ear  of  my  soul  the  words 
which  will  give  her  comfort.  Wherefore  then  doth  the 
soul  of  Martha  (Luke  x,  41)  weary  itself  overmuch  ? 
For  it  hath  the  power  to  find  out  only  a  little  of  what 
is  a  great  [mass]. 

19.  Salutation  to  thy  noble  shoulders  which  have 
received  a  blessing  and  not  a  curse,  and  it  abideth.  O 
Mary,  bear  thou  me  together  with  the  righteousness  of 
thy  Covenant  upon  thy  shoulders,  and  take  a  tithe  [on 
my  behalf]  from  the  flock  of  thy  Son  Alpha,  for  thou 
art  my  faith  and  the  hope  of  my  heart. 

20.  Salutation  to  thy  back  which  was,  in  days  of 
old,  the  resting  place  of  God,  in  His  weariness,  on  the 
road  to  Kueskuam  in  the  month  wherein  He  was  driven 
forth.  O  Mary,  whosoever  beareth  thy  name  in  addi- 
tion to  his  own  on  the  Day  of  the  Last  Judgement,  if 
His  Blood  have  not  the  mastery,  receive  thou  him  [with] 

239 


Salutations  to  the  Members  of 

a  tithe  of  [thy  mercy],  O  thou  merciful  one,  His 
Mother. 

2 1 .  S ALUTATio N  to  thy  bicast,  and  to  thy  bosom,  and 
to  the  twin  nipples  thereof.  I  adjure  thee,  O  Mary,  by 
the  Blood  which  fell  drop  by  drop  at  Golgotha,  that 
thou  make  my  soul  to  be  worthy,  with  thine  own  soul, 
of  a  portion  thereof,  and  let  the  dust  of  my  earthly 
body  be  protected  thereby. 

22.  Salutation  to  thine  arms,  and  to  thy  forearms, 
and  to  thy  bosom  wherewith  thou  hast  embraced 
Christ,  the  Pearl  of  the  Godhead,  the  Hidden  One. 
O  Mary,  thou  chosen  one,  our  Mother  of  angels  and 
men,  if  the  sinner  celebrateth  the  commemoration  of 
thee  in  firm  faith  let  him  reign  with  thee  in  the  king- 
dom of  heaven. 

23.  Salutation  to  thy  arms  and  to  thy  wrists  and 
hands  which  wove  woven  work,  and  made  it  beautiful 
with  gold  and  purple  threads,  for  the  sanctuary  of  the 
God  Who  endureth  for  ever.  O  Mary,  fulfil  thou  the 
Covenant  of  Mercy  in  me,  and  slay  thou  the  enemy  of 
my  soul,  for  he  is  accursed,  even  as  Solomon  in  his 
wisdom  slew  Sami  (Shimei)  (see  i  Kings  ii,  46). 

24.  Salutation  to  the  palms  of  thy  hands  which  re- 
ceived the  bread  and  the  water  brought  unto  thee  by 
the  angels  when  thou,  O  Mary,  wast  living  in  the  great 
Sanctuary  of  the  Law.  When  I  give  a  handful  of  cold 
water  to  a  poor  and  thirsty  man  to  drink  may  it  be  re- 
ceived by  thee,  through  thy  Covenant,  as  the  sacrifice 
of  a  chosen  evening. 

25.  Salutation  to  thy  fingers,  and  to  thy  white 
nails,  and  to  thy  two  breasts,  which  are  the  doors  of  the 
milk  that  is  to  be  desired.  O  Mary,  thou  spring-flower 
of  thy  time,  I,  the  feeble  one,  have  taken  refuge  in  thy 
bosom,  and  by  the  might  of  thy  Covenant  let  me  be 
delivered  from  the  fire  which  is  already  prepared  [for 
me]. 

26.  Salutation  to  thy  flanks,  which  are  placed  one 

240 


the  Body  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

on  each  side  of  thy  body,  whereon  hath  been  set  the 
brightness  of  gold  which  never  passeth  away.  O  Mary, 
embrace  thou  me,  and  graciously  set  me  at  the  side  of 
thy  Covenant,  whilst  the  sinners,  who  during  their  life- 
time hated  him  that  was  a  companion  of  the  righteous, 
go  down  into  the  region  of  utter  darkness. 

27.  Salutation  to  thy  belly,  thy  belly  which  is  like 
unto  that  of  the  angels,  and  which  in  accordance  with 
its  [exalted]  station  and  degree,  is  ever  fed  upon  the 
bread  of  heaven.  O  Mary,  thou  Zion  of  God,  thou 
Ark  of  His  Law,  let  the  water  of  the  lake  of  thy  Cove- 
nant cleanse  me  from  the  love  of  gold  ;  for  the  love  of 
riches  is  said  to  be  the  ancestor  of  Satan. 

28.  Salutation  to  thy  heart,  whereto  are  joined  thy 
reins,  and  to  thy  power  of  feeling  ;  and  Salutation  to 
thy  bowels,  and  also  to  every  organ  which  is  in  thee. 
O  Mary,  thou  pillar  of  cloud,  bring  me  into  the  land 
of  promise,  and  lead  thou  me  on  the  way  by  the  light 
of  the  fire  of  thy  Covenant,  and  in  thy  love  feed  me 
upon  manna. 

29.  Salutation  to  thy  navel  which  is  like  unto  a 
round  goblet  (Song  of  Solomon  vii,  2)  in  the  midst  of 
thy  body  ;  and  Salutation  to  thy  pure  belly,  and  unto 
thy  blessed  loins.  O  Mary,  thou  holy  woman,  who 
didst  give  birth  unto  Christ-God,  set  thou  a  guard 
round  about  my  soul  until  [it  reacheth]  the  third 
heaven,  when  there  standeth  in  the  air  a  hostile  angel 
who  would  become  the  adversary  thereof. 

30.  Salutation  to  thy  virginity,  wherein  are  in- 
cluded the  five  senses  of  the  body,  and  to  thy  two 
thighs,  which  are  the  pillars  of  the  roof  of  the  sanctu- 
ary. O  Mary,  thou  Tabernacle  (or.  Ark)  and  Two 
Tables  of  stone  of  the  New  Covenant,  anoint  thou  me 
with  the  balsam  of  fasting,  from  the  head  even  unto 
the  sole  of  the  foot,  for  fasting  healeth  the  pain  of  the 
soul. 

31.  Salutation  to  thy  knees  when  they  bow  in 

R  241 


Sahitatio?is  to  the  Memhcrs  of 

making  propitiation  and  intercession,  and  Salutation 
to  thy  feet  which  bend  in  adoration  ceaselessly.  O 
Mary,  who  hast  become  the  companion  of  the  Word 
of  the  Father,  entreat  thou  Him  graciously  to  bestow 
upon  me  the  life  of  [my  soul],  when  all  sinners  shall  be 
cast  into  the  fire. 

32.  Salutation  to  the  soles  of  thy  feet,  and  to  the 
insteps  thereof  which  walked  to  the  Monastery  of 
Kueskuam  when  the  soldiers  slew  the  children.  O  Mary, 
thou  daughter  of  Ezra,  say  thou  unto  the  God  of 
heaven,  "  Wilt  thou  condemn  in  the  Judgement  the 
soul  that  loveth  Thee  in  all  its  works  because  of  thirty 
words  ?  " 

33.  Salutation  to  the  toes  of  thy  two  feet,  and  to 
the  nail  which  belongeth  to  each  of  them.  With  the 
Covenant  of  Mercy,  O  Mary,  hide  thou  that  concern- 
ing me  which  should  be  hidden,  and  by  the  invitation 
of  the  tongue  let  another  man  who  is  mortal  like  unto 
myself  drink  my  blood  from  a  vessel. 

34.  Salutation  to  thy  disposition  which  the  air  of 
the  virtues  nourished,  and  which  bowed  not  itself  be- 
fore the  storm  of  sin.  O  Mary,  cover  thou  me  over 
with  the  wing  of  thy  Covenant  when  the  Judgement 
shall  take  place,  for  if  thy  Covenant  be  not  a  means  of 
salvation  for  the  soul  of  him  that  devoured  men,  who 
shall  be  able  to  deliver  him  ? 

35.  Salutation  to  thy  person,  more  than  to  the 
persons  of  Hanna  and  Elisabeth,  for  the  beauty  thereof 
is  of  divers  kinds,  and  its  tender  freshness  is  a  thing 
apart  [from  that  of  other  women].  O  Mary,  thou  holy 
woman,  who  wast  virgin  within  and  without,  let  thy 
Covenant  be  my  redemption  in  the  face  of  the  Almighty 
Creator  when  He  putteth  an  end  to  time,  and  when 
buying  and  selling  shall  cease  in  the  market. 

36.  Salutation  to  the  going  forth  of  thy  soul, 
whereof  the  fiery  light  terrified  the  Black  Angel  when 
he  saw  it,  and  he  was  unable  to  terrify  thee  by  his  black- 

242 


the  Body  of  the  Virgin  Mary 

ness.  I  adjure  thee,  O  Mary,  by  the  Divinity  of  God, 
to  deliver  me  by  thy  Covenant  from  the  threefold 
terror  when  death  shall  separate  my  soul  from  this  my 
body. 

37.  Salutation  to  thy  body  of  flesh  which  did  not 
remain  on  the  bier,  for  the  Spirit  of  Life  of  the  Father 
raised  it  up  quickly.  Since  thou  dost,  O  Mary,  save 
sinners  by  thy  wise  Covenant,  the  saving  of  the  righte- 
ous shall  not  be  accounted  a  marvellous  thing  for  thee 
to  perform.  To  save  the  righteous  is  a  marvellous 
thing,  but  the  saving  of  sinners  is  indeed  a  hard  task. 

38.  Salutation  to  the  making  ready  for  burial  of 
thy  body  with  linen  swathings  and  myrrh  by  the  hands 
of  Peter,  who  uttered  cries  of  joy.  Be  thou  merciful 
unto  me,  O  Mary,  and  say  not  unto  me  in  the  time  of 
tribulation,  "  Wherefore  dost  thou  give  thanks  for  thy 
Covenant,  and  for  my  help  which  keepeth  in  safety, 
and  is  the  anointing  of  sinners  ?  "  And  I  say,  "  Shall 
not  I  be  anointed  ?  " 

39.  S ALUT ATio  N  to  thy  grave,whereunto  are  gathered 
together  all  the  nations  and  peoples  of  the  earth  whose 
boast  thou  art.  O  Mary,  come  thou  to  me  at  the  hour 
of  death  of  that  which  is  mortal  in  me  ;  when  any 
Christian  soul  departeth  wilt  not  thou  thyself  come 
quickly  to  give  it  consolation  ? 

40.  Salutation  to  thy  resurrection  which  was  like 
unto  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  for  the  gates  of  the 
tomb  had  been  shut  fast  and  they  remained  unopened. 
O  Mary,  thou  art  the  head  of  the  hope  of  Adam,  and 
if  thy  Covenant  and  prayer  be  not  with  him  he  must 
fall  into  the  depth  of  perdition,  both  soul  and  body. 

41.  Salutation  to  the  departure  of  thy  body  unto 
the  House  of  Life,  and  the  renewal  thereof,  whereunto 
the  Body  of  thy  Son  had  already  departed.  O  thou 
redeemer  of  the  world,  Mary,  I  entreat  thee  to  redeem 
my  soul  by  thy  Covenant,  and  let  my  wound  be 
anointed  with  the  medicine  that  shall  heal  it. 

243 


Salutations  to  the  Virgm  Mary 

42.  Let  us  give  thanks  unto  God  Who  cried  a  cry 
unto  us,  and  let  us  celebrate  the  commemoration  of  thy 
Covenant  among  the  congregation  of  the  afflicted  ones. 

[Rubric]  whosoever  shall  recite  this  composi- 
tion TWO  AND  forty  TIMES  ACCEPT  THOU  HIM,  O  MARY, 
AT  THE  RESURRECTION,  AND  LAY  THOU  UPON  THE  HEAD 
OF  HIS  SOUL  THE  SEVENFOLD  CROWN  OF  THE  KINGDOM. 


244 


THE  VISION  OF  MARY  :  A  HOMILY  BY  JOHN 
THE  SON  OF  ZEBEDEE 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  605,  Fol.  94a] 

[Fol.  94a]  In  the  Name  of  the  Father  and  of  the 
Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  One  God.  Christ,  my 
God,  help  me  !  And,  O  our  Lady  the  Virgin  Mary,  do 
thou  entreat  Him  to  help  me  in  His  mercy. 

A  HOMILY  WHICH  THE  HOLY  AND  BLESSED  JOHN  THE  SON 
OF  ZEBEDEE  COMPOSED  ON  THE  MAJESTY  AND  GLORY  OF 
THE  HOLY  VIRGIN.  MAY  HER  PRAYER  AND  BLESSING  BE 
WITH    HER  SERVANT. 

SAITH  John  the  son  of   Zebedee  whom  our  Lord 
loved  greatly  for  his  purity,  and  our  Lady  Mary 
loved  him  exceedingly  even  as  he  loved  her  Son  : — 

She  answered  and  said  unto  John,  Hearken  and  I  will 
tell  thee  an  astounding  and  hidden  mystery,  which  can- 
not be  known  by  the  heart  (or  mind)  and  cannot  be 
comprehended  by  the  understanding,  which  my  Lord 
and  my  Son,  Jesus  Christ  my  beloved  one  and  my  Re- 
deemer, revealed  unto  me  at  Golgotha,  at  the  time  of 
the  sixth  hour,  which  is  noon,  on  the  day  of  the  Eve  of 
the  Sabbath  (i.e.  Saturday).  A  shining  cloud  came  and 
bore  me  along  and  took  me  up  into  the  third  heaven, 
and  it  set  me  down  at  the  boundary  of  the  earth,  and 
my  Son  appeared  unto  me.  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  Mary,  My  mother,  thou  dwell- 
ing-place of  God.  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  virgin,  who 
gavest  birth  to  Me.  From  thy  womb  hath  gone  forth 
the  river  of  peace.  I  will  reveal  unto  thee  an  astounding 
wonder." 

245 


The  Vision  of  Mary 


And  I  made  answer  to  Him  and  said  unto  Him, "My 
Lord  and  my  God  !  O  my  Son  and  my  King,  let  it  be 
as  Thou  wishest."  And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me, 
"  Look  down  on  the  earth  below."  And  I  looked  and 
saw,  and  the  whole  world  was  like  a  thing  of  nothing, 
and  the  children  of  men  were  as  naught,  even  as  David 
the  Prophet  said,  "  Man  is  a  thing  of  naught,  his  days 
are  like  unto  the  shadow  that  passeth  away  "  (Psalm 
cxliv,  4),  and  again  he  saith,  "  The  days  of  man  are  like 
unto  grass.  He  flourisheth  like  a  flower  of  the  field.  A 
breath  goeth  forth  from  him,  and  he  existeth  no  longer, 
and  his  place  can  no  more  be  known  "  (Psalm  ciii,  15, 
16).  And  I  asked  my  beloved  Son  and  said  unto  Him, 
"  Doth  not  man  boast  himself  in  vain,  seeing  that  he 
perisheth  in  this  fashion  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said 
unto  me,  "  Hast  thou  not  heard  what  David  the  Pro- 
phet saith,  '  Why  doth  the  mighty  man  boast  himself 
in  his  iniquity,  and  work  iniquity  all  the  day  long  ?  ' 
(Psalms  xxxviii,  12  ;  xciv,  4).  And  again  he  saith, '  They 
perish  and  are  scattered  like  the  smoke '  (Psalm  xxxvii, 
20).  Even  so  is  the  life  of  the  children  of  men  "  [Fol. 
94b].  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  I  desire 
to  see  what  happeneth  to  the  souls  of  the  righteous 
when  they  depart  from  their  bodies " ;  and  He  said  unto 
me,"  Be  patient  for  a  space  and  I  wdll  show  thee." 

And  then  I  saw  fourteen  shining  angels  with  the  wood 
of  the  Cross  in  their  hands,  and  on  their  breasts  was  the 
sign  of  the  Cross  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  in  their  hands 
were  golden  censers.  And  they  came  down  to  meet  the 
soul  of  a  righteous  man,  and  angels  of  light  came  and 
angels  of  darkness ;  when  they  did  not  find  that  which 
was  their  portion  they  left  that  soul.  And  they  went 
out  and  surrounded  it,  and  the  angels  crowned  it  with 
light,  and  they  shook  that  soul  thrice  that  they  might 
carry  it  away  from  its  body.  And  they  said  unto  it, 
"  Come,  come  forth,  thou  soul,  in  peace.  Rejoice  thou, 
O  pure  and  bright  soul,  and  be  glad."  And  they  made 

246 


PLA  TE  XXXI 


Lady  J/ettx  .US.  Xo.  2,fol.  /Si. 


1.  Mary  in  Paradise,     The  angels  worshipping  her. 

2.  Mary  looking  on  the  flames  of  hell 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  a7id  Jalianna7n 

it  to  rejoice  with  fans  (?),  and  they  admonished  that 
soul  and  said  unto  it,  "  Rejoice  thou,  O  pure  and  bright 
soul,  and  be  glad,  for  behold,  we  all  rejoice  in  thee,  and 
thy  Creator  rejoiceth  in  thee.  Get  thee  on,  let  us  go 
into  our  city.  Hast  thou  not  heard  what  David  saith, 
'  I  rejoiced,  for  they  said  unto  me,  Let  us  go  into  the 
House  of  God  ?  Our  feet  stand  in  thy  courts,  Jerusa- 
lem. Jerusalem  is  built  like  a  city  '  (Psalm  cxxii,  1-3). 
And  again  he  saith, '  One  day  in  thy  courts,  O  Jerusalem, 
is  better  than  a  thousand  [elsewhere]  '  (Psalm  Ixxxiv, 
2),  O  pure,  bright  soul,  for  thou  hast  conquered  this 
fleeting  world,  and  hast  reduced  to  shame  the  Devil  and 
all  his  evil  hosts.  And  the  angel  also  rejoiceth  with  it 
because  thereof,  saying,  '  On  the  First  Day  thou  hast 
given  me  rest.'  Remember  what  David  the  Prophet 
saith,  '  Tell  me  how  few  shall  be  my  days.  Drive  me 
not  away  in  the  half  of  my  year[s].  Thy  years  are  from 
generation  to  generation'  (Psalms  xxxix,4;  cii,24).  And 
remember  thou  what  Paul  saith,  '  The  dwelling  in  this 
world  is  a  fleeting  thing.  And  those  who  eat  shall  be 
like  those  who  eat  not,  and  those  who  drink  like  those 
who  drink  not,  and  those  who  rejoice  like  those  who  re- 
joice not,  and  those  who  marry  like  those  who  marry 
not,  and  those  who  are  worthy  like  those  who  are  un- 
worthy, for  fleeting  is  the  dwelling  in  this  fleeting 
world'  (compare  i  Corinthians  vii,  29,  31).  And  all  this 
do  thou  remember.  Thou  hast  rejected  and  thou  [Fol. 
95a]  hast  hated  this  world,  which  groweth  old  and  de- 
cayeth.  And  thou  hast  treated  it  like  an  old  rag,  and 
like  dung,  and  like  an  enemy  of  thine,  and  thou  hast  loved 
Him  Whose  joy  abideth  for  ever  and  ever.  Come,  let  us 
go  to  thy  Creator,  and  let  thy  soul  rejoice  within  thee." 
And  the  angels  came  forthwith  to  that  soul,  and  they 
examined  it,  and  they  found  not  their  portion  therein, 
and  they  left  it  and  departed.  And  the  angels  came 
down  with  shining  crowns,  and  they  were  carrying  neck- 
laces of  gold,  and  fillets  (?)  of  silver  and  jacinth,  and 

247 


Tlie  Visio7i  of  Mary 

shining  ornaments,  and  the  light  thereof  was  seven 
times  brighter  than  that  of  the  sun.    And  Christ  and 
the  Paraclete  Holy  Ghost  descended  to  the  fifth  heaven, 
and  I  went  to  salute  that  soul,  and  the  angels  of  light 
uttered  cries  of  joy,  and  I  uttered  cries  of  joy  with 
them.   I  likened  the  matter  to  what  David  the  Prophet 
saith,  "  Clap  your  hands,  all  ye  peoples,  and  sing  unto 
God  with  a  voice  of  gladness  "  (Psalm  xlvii,  i).  And 
again  he  saith,  "  Precious  before  God  is  the  death  of  the 
righteous  man"  (Psalm  cxvi,  15).    And  they  brought 
that  soul  before  God,  and  He  said  unto  it,  "  Rejoice 
and  be  glad,  O  soul,  for  behold,  this  is  God  thy  Creator; 
worship  thou  and  adore."   And  that  soul  bowed  down 
before  God  its  Creator.   And  that  angel  who  had  pro- 
tected it  continually  said  unto  God  its  Creator,"!  have 
aforetime  told  Thee  concerning  the  deeds  of  that  soul ; 
reward  it  according  to  Thy  righteousness."   And  the 
righteous  Judge  answered  and  said  unto  that  soul, 
"  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  soul,  pure,  and  bright,  and 
happy  as  when  I  created  thee  aforetime.    Now  thou 
comest  to  Me  like  the  flower  of  the  rose,  and  thou  per- 
fumest  Me  with  the  incense  of  the  Garden  (i.e.  Para- 
dise).  As  thou  hast  not  provoked  Me  to  wrath,  I  will 
not  anger  thee  ;   as  thou  hast  not  put  Me  to  shame,  I 
will  not  shame  thee  ;   as  thou  hast  not  lied  unto  Me,  I 
will  not  lie  unto  thee.    Be  not  sad.    As  for  thy  body 
I  will  raise  it  up  in  the  last  days,  and  thou  shalt  return 
to  it  and  be  as  thou  wast,  and  thou  shalt  rejoice  and 
shalt  have  pleasure  with  it  in  the  country  of  joy."  And 
the  Father  gave  that  soul  a  white  garment,  the  white- 
ness whereof  was  whiter  than  milk,  and  it  was  neither 
netted  nor  woven.  And  He  gave  it  three  shining  crowns 
which  were  seventy-eight  times  brighter  than  the  sun 
and  moon,  and  God  called  Michael  the  [Fol.  95b]  Arch- 
angel and  said  unto  him,  "  Take  this  soul  and  bring  it 
into  the  Garden  of  Delight  in  the  bosom  of  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob,  and  in  the  bosom  of  all  the  holy 

248 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahan7ia7n 

Fathers,  and  let  it  abide  there  and  make  itself  happy 
until  I  come  to  judge  all  the  world  ;  and  in  the  last 
days  it  shall  return  to  the  body  which  it  had  formerly, 
and  it  shall  receive  its  wages  with  the  saints."  And  when 
the  thousands  and  the  tens  of  thousands  of  angels  heard 
[this],  they  said  unto  Him,"  Verily  Thou  hast  judged 
[rightly]  and  righteous  are  all  Thy  judgements."  And 
all  the  hosts  of  heaven  rejoiced,  and  I  rejoiced  with 
them,  even  as  the  Prophet  saith,  "  The  judgement  of 
God  is  right,  and  maketh  the  heart  to  rejoice  "  (Psalm 
xix,  8,  9).  And  again  he  saith,  "  He  w^ho  hath  toiled  in 
the  world  shall  live  for  ever,  for  he  shall  not  see  corrup- 
tion "(compare  Psalm  xlix,  8,  9). 

And  we  accompanied  that  soul  on  its  way  and  we 
brought  it  into  the  Garden  (i.e.  Paradise),  and  the 
righteous  and  the  martyrs  received  it,  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob,  and  all  the  hosts  of  saints  ;  Adam  and  Eve 
were  with  them,  and  David  with  his  harp  played  music 
in  their  midst.  And  they  said  unto  that  soul,  "  Peace 
be  unto  thee,  O  pure  soul !  Come,  enter  into  everlast- 
ing life,  wherein  is  neither  sickness  nor  suffering,  even 
as  the  Prophet  David  saith,  '  Return,  O  my  soul,  into 
thy  rest,  for  God  hath  helped  thee '  "  (Psalm  cxvi,  7). 
And  that  soul  went  with  them,  and  we  returned  to  our 
rest.  And  there  were  some  of  us  who  said,  "  Hallelujah. 
Hallelujah.  Hallelujah.  Holy,  Holy,  Holy  God  of 
Hosts.  The  heavens  and  the  earth  are  filled  full  with 
the  holiness  of  Thy  praise."  And  some  of  us  said, 
"  Praise  be  to  the  Father.  Praise  be  to  the  Son.  Praise 
be  to  the  Holy  Ghost.  Praise  be  to  the  Father  Who 
hath  given  unto  this  soul  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens. 
And  worship  be  to  the  Son  Who  hath  carried  it  away 
from  Diabolos.  And  thanksgiving  be  to  the  Holy  Spirit 
Who  hath  delivered  it  out  of  the  hand  of  its  enemy  and 
brought  it  unto  the  Garden  of  Delight  (In  like  manner 
do  Thou  save  Jonathan,  Thy  servant)  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen."  [Fol.  96a]. 

249 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  [Now]  show 
me  what  happcneth  to  the  soul  of  the  sinner  when  it 
leaveth  his  body."  And  He  said  unto  me,"Be  patient, 
and  I  will  show  thee."  And  I  looked  down  under  the 
earth,  and  I  saw  angels  of  light  and  angels  of  darkness 
approach  that  soul  at  the  same  time.  And  an  angel  of 
light  examined  it,  and  he  lacked  his  portion  in  respect 
of  it,  and  he  left  that  soul  and  departed.  And  an  angel 
of  darkness  came  and  examined  that  soul,  and  he  found 
his  portion  in  it.  And  the  Paraclete  came  forth  from  it. 
And  Temleyakos  came  into  the  belly  of  that  soul,  and 
the  heavens  and  the  earth  compressed  it.  And  there 
stood  up  before  its  eyes  all  the  sins  that  it  had  com- 
mitted from  its  infancy  to  the  end  of  its  days  ;  and  the 
soul  was  not  cut  off  speedily  from  its  body,  but  it  stayed 
with  it  for  three  or  seven  (six  ?)  hours.  And  that 
wretched  soul  went  about  crying  out,  even  as  David  saith, 
"  The  death  of  the  sinner  is  crooked  "  (Psalm  xxxvii, 
38).  And  again  he  saith,  "  The  wicked  shall  not  be  re- 
moved from  the  judgement  "  (compare  Psalm  i,  5). 
And  that  soul  went  forth  from  its  body,  and  [the  angel] 
carried  it  away,  beating  it  with  rods  [like]  lightnings, 
and  he  burned  it  with  a  flame  of  fire,  saying,  "  Miserable 
soul,  to  whom  wilt  thou  come  ?  For  behold,  thou  hast 
forgotten  God  thy  Lord,  and  thou  hast  forgotten  thy 
Saviour  and  hast  not  remembered  Him."  And  whilst  it 
was  saying,  "  I  did  not  know,"  he  carried  it  away  and 
goaded  on  that  soul  like  a  fine  ox  on  the  day  of  its 
slaughter,  and  made  it  to  run  before  the  king.  And  that 
soul  said, "I  did  not  know  about  all  that  would  take  place 
here.  Had  I  but  known  it  I  would  never  have  given 
sleep  to  mine  eyes,  and  I  would  never  have  eaten  food 
or  drunk  water  until  I  had  obtained  a  little  rest  from 
the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Spirit."  And 
again  it  said, "For  the  sake  of  the  name  of  Mary,  the 
God-bearer,  let  me  rest  a  little,  for  my  knees  arc  tired 
through  journeying  overmuch."    And  they  answered 

250 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

and  said  unto  it, "Thou  hast  wearied  thyself  by  every 
kind  of  denial  of  Mary,  the  God-bearer ;  but  she  loveth 
not  the  unclean  soul.  She  is  the  purest  of  the  pure,  and 
she  is  greater  than  heaven  and  earth."  And  when  that 
soul  had  thus  spoken  I  cried  out  and  wept  many  bitter 
tears.  And  I  said  unto  my  Son, "Have  mercy  upon  me, 
my  Son,  for  there  is  no  man  without  sin,  and  there  is  no 
wood  which  doth  not  smoke,  and  there  is  none  pure 
[Fol.  96b]  save  Thyself  in  heaven  and  in  earth."  And 
my  Son  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  Weep  not,  O  My 
mother.  Mercy  doth  not  befit  him  who  did  not  show 
mercy  upon  the  earth."  Now  I  was  unable  [to  gainsay] 
this  word.  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  Be  it 
according  to  Thy  Will."  And  then  that  soul  cried  out 
the  more,  saying,  "  For  the  sake  of  Mary,  the  Mother  of 
the  Light,  give  me  a  little  rest."  And  when  I  heard  this 
word  I  cried  out  and  wept,  and  when  my  Son  heard  my 
loud  outcry  He  said,  "  Let  this  soul  have  a  little  rest  for 
the  sake  of  the  name  of  Mary,  My  mother."  And  then 
the  angel  let  that  soul  have  rest  for  a  space.  And  then 
he  took  it  up  and  bore  it  along,  and  goaded  it,  and 
said  unto  it,  "  Woe  be  unto  thee,  O  thou  miserable  soul. 
To  whom  wilt  thou  go  ?  To  whom  wilt  thou  come  ? 
By  whom  wilt  thou  take  thy  stand  ?  With  whom  wilt 
thou  seek  asylum  ?  And  where  is  the  place  to  which 
thou  canst  return  ?  "  And  the  angel  brought  the  soul 
to  the  angel  of  wickedness.  And  the  spirit  of  fornication 
came  before  it,  and  the  spirit  of  evil,  and  the  spirit  of 
pride,  and  the  spirit  of  falsehood  also  came  before  that 
soul,  and  these  spirits  examined  it  and  found  their  por- 
tions in  it.  And  they  said  unto  it,  "  O  miserable  soul, 
art  thou  wise  enough  to  enter  into  heaven  ?  "  And  the 
angels,  and  the  hosts  of  angels  came  and  set  that  soul  up 
in  their  midst,  and  they  cried  out,  saying,  "  Keep  away 
from  us  this  filthy  soul,  for  if  it  cometh  to  us  the 
foulness  and  the  odour  thereof  will  make  us  sick."  And 
they  all  cried  out  with  a  loud  voice,  saying,  "  Woe 

251 


The  Vision  of  Mary 


be   unto    thee,    O    wretched   soul !     Woe    be    unto 
thee !  " 

And  the  angel  took  that  soul  up  and  said  unto  it, 
"  This  is  the  Lord  thy  God,  Who  created  thee  in  His 
likeness,  and  fashioned  thee  with  His  hands  ;  bow  down 
and  make  obeisance  [to  Him]."  And  that  soul  bowed 
down.  And  the  angel  who  had  protected  it  continually 
(i.e.  its  guardian  angel)  said  unto  God  the  Father, 
"  Lord,  take  Thou  this  soul  which  Thou  didst  commit 
to  me  to  keep,  and  judge  it  according  to  the  work  of  its 
hands."  And  God  the  Father  answered  and  said  unto 
that  soul,  "  O  soul,  why  hast  thou  treated  Me  unjustly  ? 
Have  I  separated  thee  from  the  righteous  ?  The  moon 
and  the  stars  of  winter  and  of  summer  did  I  not  ordain 
for  thee  ?  Did  I  not  make  the  rain  to  descend  for  thee  ? 
I  created  for  thee  food  to  eat  and  water  to  drink  ;  and 
I  created  for  thee  pleasant  breezes  and  the  fruits  of  the 
earth.  And  I  have  given  unto  thee  days  of  happiness. 
Wherefore  didst  thou  forget  thy  Saviour  ?  "  And  that 
soul  said,  "  I  have  sinned,  Lord.  I  have  sinned.  I  did 
not  understand  that  this  was  to  take  place,  and  I  knew 
nothing  about  the  Judgement  which  taketh  place  here, 
and  as  for  the  Scriptures  I  knew  nothing  whatsoever 
about  them."   [Fol.  97a]. 

And  FIc  answered  and  said  unto  that  soul,  "At  the 
testimony  of  three  witnesses  a  matter  standeth.  And 
the  Scriptures  and  the  priests  have  talked  to  thee.  Why 
didst  thou  not  hearken  unto  them,  O  soul  ?  I  would 
have  prepared  thy  provision  for  thy  departure.  Thou 
hast  loved  darkness  rather  than  light,  and  hast  preferred 
the  '  gods  '  to  thy  Creator.  I  will  not  teach  him  that 
will  not  learn,  and  I  will  not  show  mercy  on  him  that 
did  not  show  mercy.  And  now,  cast  this  soul  to  Satan 
its  father,  and  give  it  to  Telmeyakos  in  Jahannam  so 
that  he  may  make  it  to  dwell  there.  And  there  let  it 
abide  until  I  come  again  to  judge  the  living  and  the 
dead  and  all  the  world.    And  at  the  last  day  it  shall 

252 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  a?id  Jahafmant 

return  to  its  body  and  shall  go  down  into  great  punish- 
ment." And  when  that  soul  heard  this  word  it  wept, 
saying,  "  Woe  is  me  !  Woe  is  me,  the  wretched  one. 
Better  for  me  would  it  have  been  had  I  never  been  born. 
Cursed  be  the  day  wherein  I  was  born."  And  when  it 
spake  thus  we  all  wept  and  cried  out,  and  the  angels  of 
heaven  put  aside  their  crowns.  Even  as  David  the 
Prophet  saith,  "Hast  Thou  created  the  children  of  men 
for  naught  ?  "  (Psalm  Ixxxix,  47).  And  also  Mark  the 
Evangelist  saith,  "  What  will  it  profit  a  man  if  he  gain 
the  whole  world  and  lose  his  own  soul  ?  And  what  if 
a  man  hath  not  given  a  ransom  for  his  soul  ?  "  (Mark 

viii,  36,  37)- 

And  my  Son  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  Come,  let 
us  walk  about  in  the  Garden  (i.e.  Paradise),  and  I  will 
show  thee  the  souls  of  the  just  and  righteous  where  they 
live."  And  He  lifted  me  up  and  brought  me  to  a  great 
abyss,  the  depth  whereof  is  unknown,  and  I  saw  there 
shining  houses,  the  splendour  whereof  was  seven  (or,  six) 
and  fifty  times  brighter  than  the  light  of  the  sun  and 
moon.  And  there  came  to  me  an  aged  man,  and  he  em- 
braced (or,  saluted)  me,  saying,  "  Blessed  [art  thou], 
Mary,  and  blessed  is  the  fruit  of  thy  womb,  and  blessed 
are  the  eyes  that  see  thee."  And  I  asked  Him  (i.e.  her 
Son)  and  said  unto  Him,  "  What  is  the  name  of  him 
who  hath  saluted  me  ?  "  And  He  said,  "  His  name  is 
Enoch."  And  then  there  came  another  man  from  that 
house  and  said  unto  me,  "  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary,  and 
blessed  is  the  fruit  of  thy  womb,  and  blessed^  are  the 
eyes  that  see  thee."  And  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,  "What 
is  his  name  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  His  name  is 
EHas."  And  then  I  saw  also  in  that  [Fol.  97b]  great 
abyss  a  lofty  pillar  of  gold  covered  all  over  with  in- 
scriptions, and  on  it  were  written  the  names  of  the 
righteous.  And  the  height  of  that  pillar  was  equal  to 
twelve  cubits.  And  when  I  saw  this  I  asked  my  Son, 
saying,  "  What  is  this  that  I  see  written  upon  this  pillar, 

253 


The  Vision  of  Mary 


and  what  arc  the  letters  of  the  writing  thereon  ?  "  And 
He  said  unto  me,  "  The  names  of  the  righteous  and  the 
martyrs  are  written  upon  this  pillar."  And  I  asked  Him, 
saying,  "Are  there  any  effigies  of  them  on  it  ?  "  And 
He  said  unto  me,  "  There  are  no  effigies  of  them,  but 
[the  names]  of  all  of  them  are  written  down."  And  I 
asked  Him,  saying,  "  Were  they  written  upon  this  pillar 
before  they  were  born  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  Be- 
fore their  father  and  mother,  Adam  and  Eve,  were 
created  they  were  written  down."  And  I  also  saw  a 
column  of  jfire,  and  there  was  writing  upon  it,  and  it 
was  larger  than  the  pillar  of  gold.  And  I  answered  and 
said  unto  my  Son,  "  Were  the  names  upon  this  pillar 
written  before  or  after  [their  owners]  were  born  ?  " 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  Hast  thou  not 
heard  what  the  Book  saith — these  who  are  enrolled  be- 
fore this  Judgement  were  enrolled  before  they  were 
born." 

And  then  He  carried  me  onward  to  that  city.  And  I 
looked  and  saw  a  city  which  was  shining  seventeen  (or, 
sixteen)  times  more  brightly  than  the  sun  and  moon. 
And  I  saw  there  a  vine  set  in  the  ground  and  the  fruit 
thereof  was  abundant,  and  the  clusters  of  grapes  on  it 
were  very  many,  and  there  were  three  upon  every 
branch.  And  I  also  saw  a  fig  tree,  and  a  nut  tree,  and 
almond  trees  of  three  kinds,  and  five  hundred  thousand 
and  sixty-seven  plants.  And  the  perfume  and  the  taste 
of  the  fruits  carried  away  captive  the  heart.  And  I  an- 
swered and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Unto  whom  doth  this 
palace  belong  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me, 
"  To  the  man  who  hath  lived  with  his  wife,  and  the 
wife  who  hath  lived  with  her  husband,  both  dwelling 
together  in  purity,  the  man  knowing  no  other  woman, 
and  the  woman  knowing  no  other  man,  but  both  dwell- 
ing in  their  purity.  And  when  they  (i.e.  the  angels) 
bring  them  here  they  give  them  their  reward.  Thus 
Matthew  the  Evangelist  saith,  '  Blessed  are  the  pure  in 

254 


Mary   Visits  Paradise  and  Jaha7tnam 

heart,  for  they  shall  see  God  '  "  (Matt,  v,  8).  And  then 
I  saw  behind  that  city  a  river  of  wine.  And  our  father 
Adam  was  there,  and  Abel,  and  Seth,  and  Mahalaleel, 
and  Cainan,  and  Jared,  and  [Fol.  98a]  Arphaxad,  and 
all  the  holy  Fathers.  And  there  were  there  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob  and  Terah  and  Reu,  and  when  they  saw 
me  they  bowed  down  and  saluted  me.  And  Adam  came 
and  said  unto  me,  "  Hail  to  thee,  Mary  !  They  have 
renewed  the  Lamb  (?).  Blessed  are  the  eyes  that  see 
thee."  And  Abel,  the  firstfruits  of  the  dead,  came  to 
me,  and  bowed  down  to  me  and  saluted  me,  and  said, 
"  Hail,  Mary  !  thou  pure  offering.  [Blessed  are  the 
eyes]  that  see  thee."  And  all  the  hosts  of  the  saints 
came  in  their  companies  according  to  their  majesty,  and 
they  saluted  me  and  bowed  down  to  me,  saying,  "  Mar- 
vellous is  thy  coming  hither  !  All  hail  !  Mary,  thou 
beautiful  dove.  Blessed  are  the  eyes  that  see  thee." 
And  then  He  lifted  me  onwards  to  the  river,  and 
brought  me  unto  the  river  of  honey.  And  there  were 
there  Moses,  and  Aaron,  and  Amos,  and  Isaiah,  and 
Nahum,  and  Jeremiah,  and  Zephaniah,  and  Haggai, 
and  Zechariah,  the  son  of  Barachiah,  and  Gideon,  and 
Samson,  and  John  the  Baptist,  and  Yosa'  (Joshua  ?), 
and  Joel,  and  Midad,  and  Eldad,  and  Melchaiah,  and 
all  the  prophets  and  the  sons  of  the  prophets,  and  Jonah, 
and  Ezra.  And  Hanna  the  prophetess  and  Elisabeth 
were  with  them.  And  there  were  other  women  in  their 
places  with  their  mother  Sara,  and  Rebekah,  and 
Rachel,  and  all  the  women  were  in  one  place  by  them- 
selves. 

And  Moses  the  Prophet  came  unto  me,  and  he  bowed 
down  before  me,  saying,  "  Greeting  unto  thee,  Mary, 
thou  white  dove.  Blessed  are  the  eyes  that  see  thee." 
And  all  the  prophets  came  to  me  according  to  their  rank 
and  habitation,  and  they  bowed  down  before  me  and 
saluted  me,  and  said  unto  me, ''  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary, 
O  pure  palace  !    Blessed  are  the  eyes  that  see  thee." 

255 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

And  Eve  came  to  me,  and  she  bowed  down  before  me 
and  saluted  me,  and  said  unto  me,  "  Blessed  art  thou, 
Mary,  pure  and  shining  woman  !  Blessed  are  the  eyes 
that  see  thee."  And  then  all  the  [other]  holy  women 
came  unto  me,  and  bowed  down  before  me  and  saluted 
me,  and  said,  "  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary,  and  blessed  is 
the  fruit  of  thy  womb.  And  blessed  are  the  eyes  that 
see  thee."  And  then  [my]  Son  took  me  on  to  the  river 
of  milk,  to  the  place  where  were  one  hundred  and  forty- 
four  times  ten  thousand  babes  [Fol.  98b]  of  Bethle- 
hem whom  Herod  slew,  who  had  not  polluted  their 
bodies  and  their  garments  with  the  pollution  of  this 
world.  And  when  they  saw  me  they  came  from  the 
uttermost  parts  of  the  place,  and  bowed  down  before 
me  and  saluted  me,  saying,  "  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary, 
thou  object  of  the  boast  of  virgins  !  Blessed  are  the 
eyes  that  see  thee." 

And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Who  are 
these  who  dwell  by  the  river  of  wine  ?  "  And  He  said 
unto  me,  "  These  who  dwell  by  the  river  of  wine  are 
they  who  have  shown  love  to  pilgrims  during  their  lives, 
and  have  loved  them  as  they  loved  their  own  souls.  And 
they  fed  the  hungry  with  their  bread,  and  they  gave 
the  thirsty  water  to  drink  from  their  cups,  and  have 
given  their  own  apparel  to  the  naked  for  clothing. 
These  are  they  whom,  when  they  went  forth  from  the 
world,  the  angels  carried  into  the  presence  of  God  that 
they  might  bow  before  Him  and  salute  Him.  And  when 
they  had  done  this  and  finished  their  adoration.  He  had 
them  brought  to  the  river  of  wine,  and  He  made  them 
to  dwell  here  and  gave  them  their  reward  (or,  wages). 
And  He  welcomed  them  whilst  yet  afar  off,  and  em- 
braced them,  and  kissed  their  mouths  as  if  He  had  been 
acquainted  with  them  from  of  old,  and  He  showed 
them  love,  and  set  them  down  here  according  to  their 
tribes  and  brethren.  And  He  said  unto  them,  '  Verily 
ye  have  overcome  the  fleeting  world,  and  ye  have  van- 

256 


PLATE  XXX I  I 


Lady  Meux  MS.  Xo  i.     Picture  Xo.  30. 


Saint  Maba'  Seyon   taken  to  the  Virgin    Mary's  bosom  with  the 
Christ   Child 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahan7jam 

quished  the  Devil,  and  have  put  him  to  shame,  together 
with  his  evil  hosts.  Ye  have  grown  up  in  the  work  of 
goodness  and  righteousness,  go  ye  forth  into  the  city 
and  be  joyful  with  us.'  "  And  again  I  answered  and  said 
unto  Him,  "And  who  are  these  who  dwell  by  the  river  of 
honey  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  These 
are  they  who  have  stretched  out  their  hands  to  the  poor, 
and  their  hands  to  the  needy,  even  as  David,  the  blessed 
man,  saith,  '  Blessed  is  the  man  who  succoureth  the 
poor  and  needy,  God  shall  deliver  him  in  the  day  of 
trouble,  and  shall  protect  him,  and  give  him  life,  and 
do  good  to  him  upon  the  earth  '  (Psalm  xli,  i,  2).  And 
Matthew  the  Evangelist  also  saith,  [Fol.  99a] '  Blessed 
are  the  merciful,  for  unto  them  shall  men  show  mercy  ' 
(Matt.  V,  7).  He  who  hath  redeemed  the  oppressed, 
who  hath  been  a  father  and  a  mother  to  the  orphan, 
and  a  prop  to  the  widow,  and  a  helper  to  the  afflicted 
and  distressed,  who  hath  made  the  miserable  man  to  re- 
joice, and  comforted  the  sad,  and  visited  the  sick,  and 
held  converse  [Fol.  99a]  with  the  prisoner,  whether  Jew 
or  Gentile  ('Aramawi),  for  they  are  all  God's  creatures, 
he  shall  dwell  by  the  river  of  honey.  For  the  potter 
with  one  kind  of  clay  doth  not  make  of  one  half  of  it  a 
vessel  to  honour  and  another  to  dishonour.  Even  as 
David  saith,  '  Judge  the  poor  and  the  orphans.  Right 
the  oppressed  and  the  needy,  and  save  the  solitary  and 
the  miserable,  and  save  them  from  the  hand  of  sinners ' 
(Psalm  Ixxxii,  3,  4).  And  Matthew  the  Evangelist  also 
saith, '  The  oppressed  shall  be  saved  for  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  '  (Matt,  v,  10).  And  the  wise  man  Solomon 
saith,  '  Those  who  have  mercy  on  the  poor  shall  God 
repay  '  (?)  (Proverbs  xiv,  21).  When  they  go  forth  from 
this  world  they  (i.e.  the  angels)  shall  take  them  to  God 
that  they  may  bow  before  Him,  and  when  they  have 
saluted  Him  and  finished  their  worship  of  Him,  He  will 
have  them  brought  here  to  this  river  of  honey.  And  the 
Prophets  and  all  the  righteous  shall  come  to  receive 

s  257 


The  Visio?t  of  Mary 

them,  and  shall  say,  '  Ye  have  conquered  this  fleeting 
world  and  overcome  the  Devil  and  all  his  hosts ;  come 
ye  into  our  city  and  rejoice  with  us.'  " 

And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Who  are 
these  who  dwell  by  the  river  of  milk  ?  "  And  He  an- 
swered and  said  unto  me,  "  Those  who  have  purified 
themselves  from  fornication,  and  have  kept  themselves 
from  begetting  and  from  the  impurity  of  women,  and 
have  never  thought  of  this  in  their  hearts  and  minds. 
For  the  Gospel  saith,  '  He  who  hath  looked  upon  a 
woman  and  desired  her  hath  already  committed  forni- 
cation with  her  in  his  heart  '  (Matt,  v,  28).  And  when 
those  women  who  have  kept  their  virginity  undefiled 
go  forth  from  the  world,  the  angels  shall  take  them  into 
the  presence  of  God  that  they  may  bow  before  Him 
and  salute  Him.  And  when  they  have  finished  worship- 
ping, the  angels  shall  bring  them  hither,  and  the  chil- 
dren shall  go  forth  and  welcome  them  from  afar  off, 
and  shall  say  unto  them, '  Verily  ye  have  conquered  the 
fleeting  world,  and  have  passed  over  the  waves  thereof, 
and  ye  are  like  unto  us.  Come  into  our  city  and  rejoice 
ye  with  us.'  " 

And  then  my  Son  showed  me  a  white  land,  which 
shone  seven  times  more  brightly  than  the  sun,  and 
moon,  and  stars ;  and  the  whole  of  it  was  decorated 
with  gold  and  silver.  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my 
Son,  "  Unto  whom  belongeth  this  city  ?  "  And  He  said 
unto  me,  "  To  him  that  hath  preserved  [Fol.  99b]  his 
tongue  from  calumny,  and  to  him  that  is  without  boast- 
ing and  pride,  to  him  that  is  not  a  lover  of  wine,  and  is 
not  envious,  and  is  not  proud,  who  doth  not  provoke 
his  brother  to  wrath,  who  is  not  lascivious,  who  hath 
not  vilified  his  neighbour  and  is  not  vindictive  and  mali- 
cious, in  whose  heart  revenge  doth  not  dwell,  to  him 
that  is  as  gentle  as  a  dove.  Even  as  Luke  the  Evangelist 
saith  :  '  I  say  unto  you,  Whosoever  blasphemeth  against 
the  Son  of  Man  shall  perish  {sic),  and  he  who  blas- 

258 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

phemeth  against  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  never  be  for- 
given, neither  in  this  world  nor  in  that  which  is  to 
come.'  Even  so  shall  it  be  with  these  (i.e.  the  above- 
mentioned).  And  again  Luke  the  Evangelist  saith,'He 
who  magnifieth  himself  shall  be  abased,  and  he  who 
showethhimself  humbleshallbehonoured'  (Liikexii,io; 
xiv,  ii;xviii,  14).  And  Matthewthe Evangelist  also  saith, 
'  Blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth  ' 
(Matt.  V,  5).  And  he  also  saith,  '  Be  ye  wise  as  serpents 
and  meek  like  doves  '  (Matt,  x,  16).  And  David  saith, 
'  He  who  calumniateth  his  neighbour  in  secret  him  have 
I  chased  away.  He  who  is  arrogant  of  eye  and  greedy  of 
heart  shall  not  hold  familiar  talk  with  me  '  (Psalm  ci, 
5).  And  He  also  saith  in  the  Gospel,  '  Whosoever  pro- 
voketh  his  brother  without  cause  shall  be  condemned  in 
the  judgement  '  (Matt,  v,  22).  And  when  the  meek  go 
forth  from  the  world,  the  angels  take  them  into  the 
presence  of  God  that  they  may  bow  before  Him  and 
salute  Him.  And  when  they  have  finished  worshipping, 
they  bring  them  hither,  and  make  them  dwell  here,  and 
He  giveth  unto  them  their  everlasting  wages.  Even  as 
David  the  Prophet  saith,  '  The  meek  shall  inherit  the 
earth  and  dwell  therein  for  evermore '  (Psalm  xxxvii,  11.) 
And  he  also  saith,  '  Keep  meekness  and  thou  shalt  see 
righteousness '  (Psalm  xxv,  9).  And  he  also  saith,  '  Be- 
cause of  my  meekness  Thou  wilt  accept  me,  and  wilt 
make  me  strong  before  Thee  for  ever  '  "  (compare 
Psalm  xxii,  26). 

And  my  Son  also  showed  me  the  fore-part  of  the 
place  across  the  river,  and  I  looked  and  saw  [there]  a  mass 
of  people.  And  there  was  [at]  the  gate  of  the  Garden 
a  great  tree,  and  on  seeing  it  a  man  would  imagine 
that  it  was  full  of  fruit,  whereas  in  the  inner  parts 
thereof  there  was  no  fruit  whatsoever  ;  and  that  tree 
used  to  bend  down  towards  those  people  so  that  they 
might  think  that  there  was  much  fruit  upon  it.  When 
the  people  were  hungry  they  searched  for  fruit,  but 

259 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

they  found  none  on  that  tree,  and  they  lacked  food  to 
eat.  And  that  tree  used  to  bow  its  head,  and  when  it 
did  so  those  people  bowed  [Fol.  looa]  their  heads  until 
they  reached  the  ground  ;  and  then  the.  tree  would 
raise  itself  up  until  its  branches  reached  to  the  Garden 
(i.e.  Paradise),  and  they  (i.e.  the  people)  were  raised  up 
together  with  it.  And  when  I  saw  this  I  wept  bitterly, 
saying,  "  My  Son,  who  are  these  people  and  what  is  this 
tree  which  seemeth  to  me  to  be  full  of  fruit  ?  "  And 
when  I  looked  at  those  people  they  were  hungry  and 
thirsty,  and  they  wished  to  eat.  And  when  the  fruit  of 
the  tree  was  lacking,  they  fell  down  with  it  on  the 
ground,  and  when  that  tree  raised  itself  up  they  were 
raised  up  with  it ;  and  when  I  saw  this  I  was  sorry. 
And  my  Son  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  Weep  not, 
My  mother.  I  will  tell  thee  the  hidden  matter  concern- 
ing those  men.  In  respect  of  fasting,  and  prayer,  and 
abstinence  they  are  perfect ;  and  in  keeping  their  bodies 
undefiled  they  are  perfect.  But  they  never  fed  the 
hungry  with  their  bread,  and  they  never  gave  drink  to 
the  thirsty,  and  they  never  clothed  the  naked,  and  they 
never  gave  the  pilgrim  lodging  in  their  house.  And  they 
were  arrogant  and  boastful."  And  I  answered  and  said 
unto  my  beloved  Son,  "Shall  these  words  judge  them?" 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  There  is  nothing 
whichcansurpass  these  words, andof  all  great  sin[s]boast- 
ing  and  arrogance  are  the  greatest.  Through  boasting 
theDevilfell."  And  I  answered  and  said  unto[Fol.  loob] 
Him,  "  Did  their  arrogance,  and  boasting,  and  tying  of 
their  hands  prevent  their  coming  into  the  Garden  of 
Delight  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  Boasting  and  arro- 
gance and  the  tying  of  the  hand  are  the  root  of  sin." 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  These  people 
shall  dwell  in  this  gate  until  I  come  a  second  time,  until 
I  come  in  My  glory  with  all  the  saints.  And  when  the 
righteous  are  journeying  along  that  road  and  they  see 
them,  they  shall  make  entreaty  for  them,  and  I  will  re- 

260 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

member  them,  and  will  permit  them  to  come  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven."  And  when  I  heard  these  words 
from  His  glorious  mouth  I  gave  thanks  unto  my  Son. 

And  then  He  carried  me  onwards  to  that  river,  and 
He  made  me  cross  the  river  in  a  ship  of  gold,  and  He 
brought  me  into  a  house,  which  was  white  and  was 
shining  with  a  light  which  was  seven  times  brighter  than 
the  light  of  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars.  And  I  saw  [Fol. 
I  cob]  couches  of  gold  spread  over  with  splendid  cloths 
of  finely  woven  work.  And  I  answered  and  said  unto 
my  Son,  "  For  whom  is  this  habitation  intended  ?  " 
And  He  said  unto  me,  "  For  the  men  who  have  never 
known  men,  and  have  preserved  their  virginity  unde- 
filed.  As  David  the  Prophet  saith,  '  Blessed  art  thou, 
and  well  is  it  with  thee.  Thy  wife  is  like  a  pleasing  vine 
on  the  citadel  of  thy  house  '  (Psalm  cxxviii,  3).  And  the 
Evangelist  Matthew  also  saith,  '  Blessed  are  those  who 
are  pure  in  their  bodies,  for  they  shall  see  God  '  (Matt. 
V,  8).  And  again  he  saith,  '  Those  whom  God  hath 
joined  together  man  shall  not  separate  ;  they  are  not 
two,  but  one'  (Matt,  xix,  5,  6).  And  Mark  the  Evan- 
gelist also  saith, '  Blessed  are  those  who  having  wives  are 
as  if  they  had  them  not '  (i  Corinthians  vii,  9,  29).  And 
when  they  go  forth  from  their  world,  [the  angels]  take 
them  to  God  that  they  may  bow  down  before  Him  and 
salute  Him.  And  as  soon  as  they  have  finished  worship- 
ping they  bring  them  hither,  and  take  them  into  this 
habitation,  and  give  them  couches  of  gold  spread  with 
splendid  cloths." 

And  then  my  Son  took  me  beyond  those  couches,  and 
I  saw  there  a  river  of  oil  and  unguent,  and  I  saw  there 
also  a  shining  city  whereof  the  brightness  was  seven 
times  greater  than  that  of  the  sun.  And  I  also  saw  there 
very  many  crowns,  and  their  number  must  have  been 
thousands  of  thousands,  and  tens  of  thousands  of  thou- 
sands, and  the  .  .  .  were  one  thousand  and  forty  and 
four.    And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "|For 

261 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

whom  are  these  crowns  and  this  city  ?  "  And  He  an- 
swered and  said  unto  me,  "  This  abode  and  these 
crowns  are  for  the  martyrs  who  renounced  and  hated 
this  fleeting  world,  who  cut  themselves  off  [from  it], 
and  gave  themselves  over  to  death,  being  driven  from 
city  to  city,  and  suffering  hunger  and  thirst  for  the  sake 
of  righteousness.  They  fulfilled  what  is  said  in  the  Gos- 
pel, '  Blessed  are  they  who  hunger  and  thirst  for  right- 
eousness'sake,  for  they  shall  be  satisfied.  Blessed  are  they 
who  are  persecuted  (or,  driven  forth)  for  righteousness' 
sake,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven  '  (Matt,  v,  6, 
lo).  And  again  he  saith,  '  Every  one  shall  hate  you. 
And  not  a  single  hair  of  your  heads  shall  be  destroyed  ; 
and  in  your  forbearance  ye  shall  possess  your  soul ' 
(Luke  xxi,  17, 19).  And  this  city  is  not  the  reward  of  the 
righteous  only,  but  the  Apostles  [Fol.  loia]  shall  seek 
the  shadow  thereof,  and  the  righteous,  and  the  Pro- 
phets, together  with  their  disciples — for  there  shall  be 
the  martyrs,  and  the  Apostles,  and  the  seventy-two  dis- 
ciples and  their  five  hundred  companions,  and  the  com- 
pany of  the  firstborn,  their  governors  and  kings,  Peter, 
the  Rock  of  the  Faith,  and  Paul,  the  Tongue  of  Un- 
guent— even  as  it  saith  in  the  Gospel, '  He  who  teacheth 
and  doeth  shall  be  great  in  the  kingdom  of  the  hea- 
vens '  "  (Matt.  V,  19).  And  whilst  I  was  talking  to  my 
Son  there  came  unto  me  all  the  saints  [in]  hosts,  and  the 
company  of  the  firstborn,  and  the  Martyrs,  and  they 
saluted  me  and  said  unto  me,  "  Hail  to  thee,  Mary, 
thou  fortress  of  the  holiness  of  God.  Blessed  are  the 
eyes  that  see  thee." 

And  then  my  Son  carried  me  on  before  Him  to  that 
river,  and  I  saw  there  two  hundred  times  ten  thousand 
houses  of  light,  and  they  were  large,  each  being  twelve 
cubits  with  the  cubit  of  the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost.  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son, 
"  For  whom  are  this  habitation  and  the  houses  ?  "  And 
He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  For  the  Papasat  (i.e. 

262 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

heads  of  the  Church),  and  archbishops,  and  bishops, 
and  priests,  and  deacons,  and  readers  and  singers  of 
psalms."  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  Will 
they  all  come  into  this  abode  ?  "  And  He  answered  and 
said  unto  me,  "  Not  all  of  them  shall  enter,  but  a  few 
shall  come  in.  Hast  thou  not  heard  what  it  saith  in  the 
Gospel, '  Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  Me,  Lord, Lord, 
shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  but  every  one 
that  doeth  the  Will  of  My  Father  Who  is  in  heaven  ? 
And  in  that  day  many  shall  say.  Lord,  in  Thy  Name  we 
prophesied,  and  in  Thy  Name  we  cast  out  devils,  and 
in  Thy  Name  we  did  mighty  works.  And  then  will  I  say 
unto  them,  I  never  knew  you.   Get  ye  gone  from  Me, 

0  workers  of  iniquity  '  (Matt,  vii,  21-23).  And  as  for 
those  who  are  set  over  the  churches,  not  all  of  them 
shall  enter  into  this  abode."  And  I  asked  Him,  saying, 
"  Who  shall  enter  into  this  abode  ?  "  [And  He  said  unto 
me],  "  I  will  tell  thee.  Those  who  have  kept  them- 
selves pure  from  fornication,  and  have  not  pursued 
another  man's  wife  ;  those  who  have  not  been  avari- 
cious and  envious,  those  who  have  not  had  avarice  and 
malice  in  their  hearts,  those  who  have  not  been  proud, 
and  arrogant,  and  calumniators,  and  boasters,  and  op- 
pressors [Fol.  10 lb]  ;  those  who  have  not  worshipped 
idols  ;  those  who  have  hated  themselves,  those  who 
have  not  worked  against  their  neighbours,  those  who 
have  not  sworn  falsely  ;  those  who  have  not  loved  dig- 
nities, and  crowns  upon  earth,  and  praise  before  kings, 
and  who  did  not  neglect  the  church  ;  and  those  who 
made  themselves  fathers  and  mothers  to  the  church, 
and  touched  My  Body  in  purity  and  My  Blood  in 
purity,  and  did  not  defile  My  mystery  and  My  holy 
things.  These  are  they  who  shall  enter  this  Gate.  And 

1  will  describe  to  thee  those  who  shall  not  enter  it. 
Those  who  pursue  the  wives  of  other  men,  he  who  kil- 
leth  himself,  he  who  sweareth  falsely,  he  who  setteth 
avarice  in  his  heart,  the  arrogant,  the  boastful,  the 

263 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

transgressor  of  the  Law.  The  dancer  (?),  the  fornicator, 
the  impure  man,  he  who  goeth  astray  and  worshippeth 
idols,  and  he  who  despiseth  the  House  of  God.  This  is 
he  who  shall  not  enter  this  house — even  as  Paul,  the 
Tongue  of  Unguent,  saith,  '  No  fornicator,  or  unclean 
man,  or  idolater  shall  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God, 
neither  shall  he  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven  '  (i  Corin- 
thians vi,  9,  10).  And  it  also  saith  in  the  Gospel, '  Enter 
in  at  the  strait  gate,  for  difficult  and  narrow  is  that 
which  leadeth  to  life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it.  But 
broad  and  spacious  is  that  which  leadeth  to  destruction, 
and  many  are  those  who  find  it  and  enter  in  [through] 
it'  (Matt,  vii,  13,  14).  And  again  it  saith,  '  Many  are 
called  and  few  are  chosen  '  "  (Matt,  xx,  16). 

And  when  He  had  said  these  things  He  took  me  and 
carried  me  up  to  the  Heavenly  Jerusalem.  And  I  saw 
there  a  sanctuary  of  light,  and  a  pavilion  of  light,  and  a 
tent  covered  over  with  fire.  And  I  saw  there  a  man,  and 
he  shone  with  a  light  seven  times  brighter  than  that  of 
the  sun.  And  in  his  hand  he  held  an  instrument  of 
music  with  strings  (harp  ?)  and  a  lyre,  and  he  stood  in 
the  gates  of  Jerusalem  and  played  his  harp,  and  struck 
his  lyre  and  made  the  foundations  of  the  Garden  to 
shake.  And  when  I  entered  the  courtyard  of  that  house 
he  came  to  me  and  embraced  me  and  kissed  me,  saying, 
"  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary,  and  blessed  is  the  Fruit  of 
thy  womb.  Blessed  are  the  eyes  [Fol.  102a]  that  see 
thee."  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Who 
is  this  that  saluted  me  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said 
unto  me,  "  The  name  of  the  man  who  embraced  thee  is 
David."  And  I  heard  him  saying,  "  Hallelujah,  Halle- 
lujah, Hallelujah."  And  when  he  spake  thus  all  the 
saints  cried  out  with  the  mouth,  saying,  "  David."  And 
I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Will  [this]  cease 
with  the  voice  of  David  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said 
unto  me,  "  Without  the  word  of  David  the  praise  of 
heaven  and  earth  would  not  be  complete."  And  I  an- 

264 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

swered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  What  doth  it  mean  ?  " 
And  He  said  unto  me,  "  It  meaneth  '  song  '  (?)."  And 
I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  \i  one  crieth  out  Hal- 
lelujah, Hallelujah,  Hallelujah,  doth  it  become  an  ad- 
vantage to  him  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me, 
"  H  he  crieth  out  with  boasting  it  will  be  of  no  benefit 
to  him.  But  if  he  crieth  out  with  purity  of  intent,with- 
out  any  hesitation  through  inertness,  his  song  shall  be 
with  that  of  the  hosts  of  heaven."  And  I  answered  and 
said  unto  Him,  "  Supposing  a  man  be  sick  or  suffering, 
or  sleepy,  if  he  saith  Hallelujah,  Hallelujah,  Hallelujah, 
will  it  be  [reckoned]  a  sin  to  him  ?  "  And  He  answered 
and  said  unto  me,  "  H  he  be  sick,  or  suffering,  or  sleepy, 
and  he  say  these  words  it  will  not  be  [reckoned]  a  sin  to 
him,  for  he  doth  not  do  so  boastingly."  And  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  phrase  is  Hallelujah  to  the  Father  ; 
Hallelujah  to  the  Son  ;  Hallelujah  to  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Now  the  ground-meaning  of  the  phrase  is  Glory  be  to 
the  Father  ;  Glory  be  to  the  Son  ;  Glory  be  to  the 
Holy  Ghost,  Who  is  One  in  His  Being  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen. 

And  then  He  took  me  up  and  carried  me  on  to  the 
city,  and  brought  me  to  the  City  of  God.  And  He 
showed  me  a  shining  city  which  was  built  in  [the  form 
of]  the  flower  of  a  rose,  whereof  the  boundary  and  the 
end  (i.e.  extent)  and  the  riches  cannot  be  known.  And  its 
splendour  was  seven  times  more  than  that  of  the  heavens. 
And  in  it  were  apparel  of  gold  and  silver,  and  necklaces 
(or,  collars)  of  gold,  and  crowns  of  gold.  And  [Fol.  102b] 
I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  For  whom  is  this 
abode  [prepared]  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto 
me,  "  For  those  who  have  rejected  and  hated  this  fleet- 
ing world,  for  those  of  the  monks  who  have  forsaken 
riches  and  desire.  None  hath  knowledge  of  this  city  and 
habitation,  neither  the  angels  nor  the  archangels.  And 
the  priests  of  heaven  shall  enter  therein  and  shall  .  .  • 
the  gates  thereof.  And  none  shall  enter  therein  except 

265 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

Myself,  and  My  Father,  and  the  Paraclete.  And  do  thou 
enter  into  it  and  take  shelter  therein,  and  it  shall  be  thy 
city,  and  three  thousand  angels  shall  minister  unto 
thee."  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  Will  all 
the  monks  come  into  this  Gate  ?  "  [And  He  answered 
and  said  unto  me,  "  There  shall  enter]  only  those 
who  have  kept  themselves  pure  from  the  filth 
of  fornication,  and  those  who  have  rejected 
and  hated  this  fleeting  world,  and  those  who  have 
not  loved  the  riches  of  honour,  and  possessions, 
and  any  desirable  thing  of  the  world,  and  self, 
and  pleasure,  and  the  jests  of  the  theatre,  and  the 
laughter  of  fools,  and  the  chatter  of  idle  folk  ;  and  the 
man  who  was  not  prone  to  anger,  and  the  man  who  was 
not  a  drunkard,  and  the  man  who  was  not  proud  or 
boastful,  and  the  man  who  did  not  make  accusations 
and  did  not  stir  up  strife,  and  the  man  who  was  not 
apathetic  (or,  sluggish),  and  the  man  who  ceased  not 
praying  during  the  hours  of  the  day  and  night.  Hast 
thou  never  heard  that  the  book  saith,  '  Nothing  harm- 
eth  the  monk  more  than  abandoning  prayer  '  ?  And 
also,  '  The  monk  who  hath  nothing  is  better  than  the 
monk  who  is  not  a  giver  of  alms  ? '  And  Paul  saith  also, 
'  To  me  the  world  is  dead,  and  I  am  dead  to  it  '  (Gala- 
tians  vi,  14).  And  he  also  saith,  'In  heaven  our  city  ' 
(2  Corinthians  v,  i ;  Hebrews  xii,  22).  And  [the  sum  of] 
all  this  which  I  have  said  unto  thee  is  the  monk  who  is 
perfect  shall  come  into  this  Gate."  And  I  answered  and 
said  unto  my  Son,  "And  who  are  they  who  shall  not 
come  into  this  Gate  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto 
me,  "  I  will  tell  thee.  Those  who  shall  not  come  into 
this  Gate  are  the  proud,  the  irascible,  the  boasters,  the 
men  who  feigned  sickness,  men  who  complained  at  all 
times,  men  who  were  crazy,  vilifiers,  evil  men,  men  who 
cherished  hatred,  false  men,  deniers  [of  Christ],  scoffers, 
men  who  acted  like  fools  (or,  madmen),  fornicators, 
men  who  were  unclean,  men  who  swore  falsely,  shep- 

266 


PLATE  XXX / II 


Liuly  Mcux.  MS.  .\',,.  i.   J'uliiif  .\o.  H2 


Theophilus,  Patriarch  of  Constantinople,  in  his  church  hearing  the  trumpets 
proclaiming  the  arrival  of  the  soul  of  Gabra  Krestos  in  heaven 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

herds  who  hated  their  flocks  because  of  their  fornica- 
tion, flocks  who  hated  their  shepherds  because  of  their 
love  for  women,  sorcerers  who  slew  their  brethren  with 
the  tongue  of  violence  and  fraud  and  were  like  unto  the 
monks  who  became  idolaters  and  worshipped  false  gods, 
men  who  rode  horses  (horse-soldiers  ?),  men  who  sought 
vengeance,  men  who  had  abundance  and  demanded 
more  [Fol.  103a],  lovers  of  riches,  lovers  of  dignities, 
lovers  of  self-gratification  and  pleasure,  lovers  of  the 
world,  those  who  committed  fornication  after  they  had 
adopted  the  garb  of  the  monk,  those  who  drowned 
themselves  in  wine,  those  who  hated  their  neighbour, 
those  who  slew  their  neighbour  through  envy,  the 
eaters  of  flesh  who  were  without  flesh  {sic)  with- 
out measure,  those  who  drank  blood  without  stint, those 
who  knew  not  fasting,  lovers  of  sleep,  haters  of  fasting 
and  prayer,  those  who  made  plans  to  eat  and  to  drink, 
and  those  who  said,  '  a  feast  to-day.'  These  are  they 
who  shall  not  enter  this  Gate." 

And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  Come,  let  us 
go  towards  the  west  also,  and  I  will  show  thee  where 
the  souls  of  the  sinners  and  the  men  of  deceit  live." 
And  He  took  me  up  and  carried  me  towards  the  west, 
and  He  brought  me  to  the  boundaries  of  earth  and  of 
heaven.  And  I  saw  a  large  court  of  light  wherein  was  no 
darkness,  and  it  was  filled  with  a  river  of  fire.  And  I  an- 
swered and  said  unto  Him,  "  What  is  the  explanation  of 
this  river,  and  who  are  they  who  dwell  in  this  river  ?  " 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  These  were  not 
wholly  cold  (?),  and  they  were  not  poor."  And  I  looked 
there  and  I  saw  many  people,  men,  women,  young  folks 
and  children.  And  I  looked  again,  and  I  saw  some  men 
who  were  immersed  [in  the  fire]  up  to  their  breasts,  and 
some  were  immersed  up  to  their  lips,  and  some  up  to 
their  skulls.  And  when  I  saw  these  people  I  answered 
and  said  unto  my  Son,  "  Who  are  these  ?  And  who  are 
these  who  are  immersed  up  to  their  knees  ?  "   And  He 

267 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

said  unto  me,  "  These  are  they  who  were  sluggish  at  the 
time  of  prayer,  and  not  [only]  at  midnight.  [Hearken 
to  what]  I  am  going  to  say  unto  thee.  At  midnight  all 
creation  prayeth  to  God,  and  at  dawn  all  creation  giveth 
thanks  unto  Him  because  the  night  hath  passed  and  the 
day  hath  come,  and  in  the  evening  they  thank  Him  also 
for  the  third,  and  sixth,  and  ninth  hours  of  the  day,  and 
[pray  for]  sleep  in  the  night  hours.  Because  these  people 
were  sluggish  and  neglected  prayer  this  is  their  doom 
for  ever  and  ever.  Those  who  are  immersed  up  to  their 
navels  are  the  men  who  committed  fornication  with 
women  in  church,  and  those  who  are  immersed  up  to 
their  necks  are  the  men  who  uttered  cruel  words  in 
church,  and  those  who  are  immersed  up  to  their  breasts 
[Fol.  103b]  are  the  men  who  uttered  words  (i.e.  con- 
versed with  friends)  after  they  had  received  the  Offer- 
ing, without  making  them  to  be  refreshed,  either  with 
bread  or  water.  And  those  who  are  immersed  up  to 
their  lips  are  those  who  vilified  their  neighbour  in 
church.  And  those  who  are  immersed  up  to  their  skulls 
are  those  who  winked  with  their  eyes  and  nodded  de- 
risively in  church." 

And  then  I  saw  a  great  yawning  abyss,  and  if  a  soul 
fell  down  to  a  depth  of  fifty  thousand  cubits  it  did  not 
reach  the  limit  of  that  abyss.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  say- 
ing, "  For  whom  is  this  doom  [decreed]  ?  "  And  He 
answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  For  those  who  committed 
fornication  with  their  father's  wives ;  and  for  those  who 
committed  fornication  with  their  sisters,  or  with  their 
daughters,  or  with  their  sons'  daughters,  or  with  [the 
wives  of]  their  friends,  or  their  daughters ;  and  for 
those  who  lay  with  men  as  with  women  ;  and  for  those 
who  committed  fornication  with  the  wives  of  their  sons 
or  with  the  wives  of  the  sons  of  their  sisters ;  and  for 
those  who  committed  fornication  with  a  pregnant 
woman  or  with  an  unclean  woman  ;  and  for  those  who 
committed  fornication  with  a  black  woman,  or  with  a 

268 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannafn 

Muhammadan  woman,  or  with  a  Jewish  woman  ;  and 
for  those  who  committed  fornication  with  beasts,  or 
with  horses,  or  with  a  mule,  or  an  ass,  or  a  camel,  or 
with  any  animal  whatsoever  ;  and  for  those  who  com- 
mitted fornication  within  the  precincts  ;  and  for  the 
wife  of  the  priest  who  committed  fornication  with 
another  man,  and  the  priest  who  committed  fornication 
with  a  woman.  These  are  they  who  shall  enter  this 
abyss,  and  this  shall  be  their  punishment  for  ever." 

And  then  I  saw  another  punishment.  I  saw  an  old 
man,  and  fourteen  cruel  angels  of  darkness  were  carry- 
ing him  along,  and  they  brought  him  into  the  river  of 
fire,  and  the  river  of  fire  engulfed  him.  And  the  angels 
set  him  upon  a  throne  of  fire,  and  the  fire  flared  about 
him  as  far  up  as  his  breast,  and  they  hurled  red-hot  darts 
into  his  sides,  and  they  poured  fire  over  him  from  out  of 
a  vessel.  And  when  I  saw  this  I  wept  bitterly,  and  I 
cried  out  with  many  cries,  and  I  said  unto  my  Son, 
"  What  is  the  name  of  this  man  ?  "  And  He  answered 
and  said  unto  me,  "  His  name  is  'Papas'."  And  I  an- 
swered and  said  unto  Him,  "  What  hath  this  priest  done 
that  this  most  awful  punishment  is  decreed  for  him  ?  " 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  In  My  Law  and 
Commandment  [Fol.  104a]  he  did  not  celebrate  the 
Holy  Mysteries  ;  he  handled  [them]  not  in  purity  ;  and 
he  did  not  lift  up  the  Offering  in  purity.  He  brought 
his  days  to  an  end  in  fornication  and  uncleanness.  He 
did  not  house  the  pilgrim,  he  loved  not  the  poor  and 
needy,  he  devoured  the  first-fruit  offerings  ;  and  he 
neither  fed  the  hungry  nor  gave  drink  to  the  thirsty. 
This  shall  be  his  punishment  for  ever." 

And  I  looked  again  to  that  abyss  and  I  saw  a  man 
whom  the  angels  of  darkness  smote  until  he  fell  down 
upon  his  face  ;  and  the  blood  was  pouring  out  of  his 
mouth.  And  the  angels  cast  him  into  that  river  [of  fire] 
which  rose  up  round  about  him  to  his  breasts.  And 
when  he  said,  "  Have  mercy  upon  me,  there  is  none  to 

269 


The  Visio72  of  Ma7y 

have  mercy,"  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son, "What 
is  the  sin  of  this  man  ?  And  what  is  his  name  ?  "  And 
He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  His  name  is  'Deacon,' 
and  his  sin  I  will  declare  unto  thee.  In  My  Command- 
ment he  hath  not  walked  ;  he  was  not  devoted  to  the 
Church  ;  he  did  not  hold  My  Blood  in  purity  ;  and  he 
did  not  walk  purely  in  the  Sanctuary.  He  did  not  feed 
the  hungry  with  his  food,  he  gave  the  thirsty  no  drink 
from  his  cup,  he  did  not  clothe  the  naked  with  his 
apparel,  and  he  neither  prepared  for  burial  the  pilgrims 
who  died  [on  the  road]  nor  buried  them.  This  [river  of 
fire]  shall  be  his  punishment  for  ever." 

And  I  saw  further  on  in  that  river  a  great  and  ma- 
jestic man,  and  the  angels  of  darkness  seized  him,  and 
cast  him  into  that  river  of  fire  which  rose  to  his  breast. 
And  they  were  beating  him  with  stones  of  fire  (i.e.  red- 
hot  stones),  and  scourging  him  with  rods  of  lightning. 
And  when  I  saw  this  I  cried  out  and  wept  bitterly,  and 
I  answered  and  said  to  my  Son,  "  What  is  his  name  ?  " 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  'Archbishop  '  ; 
I  will  tell  thee  what  his  sin  was.  He  did  not  show  forth 
the  Faith  of  the  Trinity ;  and  everything  I  commanded 
him  [to  do]  he  did  not  ;  and  he  did  not  administer  the 
Law  of  the  Canon.  And  this  shall  be  his  punishment 
for  ever." 

And  behind  him  I  saw  the  river  of  fire,  and  I  saw  a 
man  whom  [the  angels  of  darkness]  were  dragging  along 
with  ropes  of  fire,  and  they  were  making  the  river  (or, 
sea)  of  fire  to  flow  up  about  him,  and  they  were  buffet- 
ing him  and  saying  unto  him,  "  Since  it  fell  to  thee  to 
break  the  Bread,  why  dost  thou  hunger  ?  Since  it  fell 
to  thee  to  pour  out  of  the  Cup,  [Fol.  104b]  why  dost 
thou  thirst  now  ?  And  since  it  fell  to  thee  to  slaughter 
the  Lamb,  why  art  thou  not  filled  with  the  flesh  there- 
of ?  "  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  Him,  "  What  is 
the  name  of  this  man  ?  And  what  is  his  sin  ?  "  And  He 
answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  His  name  is '  Priest,'  and 

270 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

his  sin  is  great  ;  I  will  tell  thee.  Though  he  was  a  priest 
he  did  not  walk  in  the  work  of  his  priesthood.  And  he 
did  not  keep  himself  pure  from  fornication,  and  he 
brought  his  days  to  an  end  with  jesting  and  idle  talk  and 
sluggishness.  And  this  shall  behis  punishment  for  ever." 

And  I  also  saw  another  man  whom  the  angels  were 
bringing  along,  and  they  were  beating  his  face  with  rods 
[made]  of  lightning,  and  his  face  was  blackened  (or, 
scorched)  by  the  fire,  and  they  cast  him  into  the  river 
of  fire  which  rose  up  about  him  to  his  breast.  And  they 
were  cutting  out  his  tongue  with  a  razor  of  fire,  and  his 
nose  with  a  sword  of  fire  ;  and  when  he  said  "  Have 
mercy  upon  me,"  there  was  none  to  show  mercy  to  him. 
And  when  I  saw  this  I  wept  bitterly  and  I  cried  out 
with  many  cries.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,  "  What 
is  the  name  of  this  man  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  It 
is '  Deacon,'  and  I  will  declare  his  sin  unto  thee.  He  did 
not  keep  the  Law  of  the  Canon  which  I  appointed,  and 
he  would  not  sing  at  My  Offering,  and  he  dwelt  amid 
tumult  and  revelry  and  fornication,  and  he  lo\ed  not 
the  church,  but  was  sluggish  and  arrogant  and  boastful. 
And  this  shall  be  his  punishment  for  ever." 

And  I  also  saw  many  men  scattered  about  like  ashes 
in  the  fire,  and  they  were  suspended  upon  pillars  of  fire, 
and  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,  "  Who  are  these  men  ?  " 
And  He  said  unto  me,  "  These  are  the  men  who  wor- 
shipped the  gods,  the  sun,  and  the  moon,  and  the  stars. 
And  this  shall  be  their  punishment  for  ever." 

And  I  saw  other  men  in  the  river  of  fire,  and  worms 
were  gnawing  them,  and  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,  "Who 
are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  These  are 
they  who  were  sated  with  food  and  gold,  and  who  put 
their  confidence  in  their  riches,  and  who  allowed  the 
poor  and  needy  to  cry  out  [in  vain].  And  as  Paul  said, 
'Those  who  wish  to  be  rich  shall  fall  into  great  sin'  (i 
Timothy  vi, 9).  This  shall  be  their  punishment  forever." 

And  then  I  looked  and  I  saw  [many]  virgins  who  were 

271 


The  Vision  of  Mary 

arrayed  in  darkness,  and  they  had  chains  of  fire  tied 
about  their  necks  [Fol.  105a]  and  [the  angels  of]  dark- 
ness were  dragging  them  into  the  river  of  fire.  And  I 
asked  my  Son,  saying,  "  Who  are  these  that  are  in  such 
great  tribulation  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  These  are 
they  whose  fathers  could  not  make  them  to  observe  the 
law  of  men,  and  who  lost  their  virginity  either  in  the 
field  or  on  the  way-side.  And  this  shall  be  their  punish- 
ment for  ever." 

And  then  I  saw  other  men  hanging  upon  [pillars  of 
fire],  and  their  hands  and  necks  were  bound  with  chains 
of  fire,  and  [the  angels  of  darkness]  were  setting  them 
in  a  place  of  darkness  where  there  was  weeping  and 
gnashing  of  teeth.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,  "  Who 
are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me,  "  These  are 
the  kings,  and  governors,  and  judges  of  the  earth  who 
devoured  the  possessions  of  others,  and  the  possessions 
of  the  orphans  and  widows.  They  magnified  them- 
selves, and  boasted  themselves  of  this  fleecing  world, 
and  gloried  in  that  which  could  not  in  any  way  profit 
them  ;  even  as  the  Book  of  the  Wise  Man  saith, 'Wholly 
vanity  is  the  dwelling  in  this  fleeting  world  '  (Ecclesi- 
astes  ii,  14).  And  this  shall  be  the  punishment  of  the 
rich  ones  of  the  earth  for  ever." 

And  then  I  looked  again  and  I  saw  other  people  hang- 
ing upon  pillars  of  fire,  and  [the  angels  of  darkness]  were 
afliicting  them ;  and  panthers  of  fire  were  biting  through 
their  throats,  and  lions  of  fire  were  crushing  their  legs. 
And  when  I  saw  this  I  wept  bitterly,  and  I  asked  my 
Son,  saying,  "  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  an- 
swered and  said  unto  me,  "  These  are  the  nuns  and 
widows  who  went  outside  the  Law  of  the  Canon,  and 
destroyed  their  virginity  after  they  had  adopted  the 
holy  garb,  and  falsified  that  which  ought  not  to  be  falsi- 
fied, and  rejected  that  which  ought  not  to  be  rejected. 
And  when  they  conceived  they  killed  their  babes  (i.e. 
procured  abortion),  and  poured  out  their  blood  on  the 

272 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jahannam 

earth,  and  when  they  brought  forth  children  they  killed 
them  with  their  own  hands.  And  their  fathers  gave 
poison  to  their  mothers.  And  these  babes  cry  out  be- 
fore the  throne  to  My  Father,  saying,  '  Whether  we 
were  to  do  evil  or  good  they  did  not  let  us  grow  up. 
One  half  of  us  they  cast  to  the  dogs,  and  the  other  half 
to  the  swine.'  And  when  we  heard  these  words,  I  and 
My  Father  and  the  Paraclete  were  angry,  and  We  com- 
manded Telmeyakos  [Fol.  105b]  to  set  them  in  a  beau- 
tiful habitation.  And  this  shall  be  the  punishment  of 
their  fathers  and  mothers  for  ever."  And  I  asked  my 
Son,  saying,  "  If  they  had  repented  wouldst  Thou  not 
have  had  mercy  upon  them  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  if  they  had  repented 
with  a  ready  heart  their  sins  should  have  been  remitted 
to  them.  But  inasmuch  as  they  did  not  repent  they 
must  be  requited  with  their  punishment.  And  as  for 
their  shepherds,  if  they  did  not  rebuke  them  they  shall 
find  with  Me  blame  and  punishment,  and  their  punish 
ment  shall  be  like  unto  that  of  Eli  and  Pola.  Eli  did  not 
admonish  his  sons,  and  Pola  sold  his  children  for  a  little 
of  the  food  that  passeth  quickly  away.  And  moreover 
they  resemble  Esau  who  sold  his  right  as  firstborn  for  a 
mess  of  pottage  (or,  for  one  meal)  and  his  posterity  for 
an  ox  (Genesis  xxv,  33).  And  these  shepherds  have  sold 
[themselves],  even  as  Paul  saith,  '  They  serve  their 
bellies  and  not  Christ '  "  (Romans  xvi,  13). 

And  then  I  saw  [men]  suspended  on  pillars  of  fire, 
and  a  flame  of  fire  was  driving  them  hither  and  thither; 
and  there  were  in  front  of  their  eyes  many  kinds  of  fruit 
and  some  pure,  sweet  water.  And  when  they  wished  to 
eat  some  of  the  fruits  and  to  drink  of  that  water,  they 
could  not  reach  them,  and  neither  fruit  nor  water  en- 
tered their  mouths.  And  when  I  saw  [this]  I  was  ex- 
ceedingly sad  and  sorrowful,  and  I  asked  my  Son,  saying, 
"  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, "  These 
are  they  who  rejected  fasting,  and  they  reduced  the 

T  273 


The  Vision  of  Mary 


fasts  and  made  haste  to  do  them  away,  whether  it  was 
the  fast  of  the  fourth  day,  or  the  fast  of  the  eve  of  the 
Sabbath,  or  the  Great  Fast  [of  Lent].  And  this  shall 
be  their  punishment  [for  ever]."  And  He  answered  and 
said  unto  me,  "If  they  had  fasted  two  days  they  would 
have  obtained  remission  of  their  sins." 
f^And  then  I  saw  men  with  their  hands  cut  off,  and  a 
flame  of  fire  moving  them  hither  and  thither,  and  I 
asked  my  Son,  saying,  "  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And 
He  said  unto  me,  "  These  are  they  who  wrote  papers 
(deeds  or  documents),  and  who  cut  off  portions  of  them. 
This  shall  be  their  punishment  [for  ever]." 

And  then  I  saw  men  whom  [the  angels  of  darkness] 
were  smiting  with  flames  of  fire,  and  whom  they  were 
bridling  with  bridles  of  fire.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  say- 
ing, "  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  These  are  they  who  cursed  their  neighbours  and  aban- 
doned their  brethren.  When  the  angels  cursed  Adam 
they  fell  down  from  their  exalted  place  [Fol.  io6a]. 
This  shall  be  their  punishment  for  ever." 

And  then  I  saw  a  pit,  the  inside  of  which  was  full  of 
bitumen  and  sulphur  ;  there  was  no  light  therein  and 
it  was  full  of  darkness,  and  I  saw  there  many  men  with 
their  hands  and  feet  cut  off.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  say- 
ing, "  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  These  are  Muhammadans,  men  who  do  not  believe 
that  I  was  born  of  thee,  and  they  do  not  believe  in  My 
baptism,  or  in  My  Resurrection  and  Ascension,  or  in  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  This  shall  be 
their  punishment  for  ever." 

And  then  I  saw  other  men  with  sulphur  and  fire  issu- 
ing from  their  mouths,  and  there  was  a  scroll  of  fire 
hanging  from  their  necks.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  saying, 
"  Who  are  these  men  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, "  These 
are  priests,  the  teachers  of  the  Book  of  Psalms,  who 
made  the  song  of  praise  to  cease  in  [their]  churches. 
This  shall  be  their  punishment  for  ever." 

274 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  and  Jaha727tam 

And  then  I  saw  a  man  whom  four  angels  were  hold- 
ing suspended  with  ropes  of  fire,  and  his  feet  were  in 
the  air  and  his  head  was  below,  that  is  to  say,  he  was 
hanginghead  downwards,  and  they  were  suspending  him 
on  spears  of  fire  which  pierced  his  face.  And  when 
the  angels  loosed  the  ropes  of  fire  from  his  feet  he  fell 
down  into  the  fire.  And  I  asked  my  Son,  saying,"What 
is  the  name  of  this  man,  and  what  is  his  sin  ?  "  And  He 
said  unto  me,  "  '  Priest '  is  his  name,  and  his  sin  I  will 
describe  unto  thee.  He  did  not  bring  incense  and  offer- 
ing on  the  day  of  the  Sabbath  of  the  Christians  in 
purity,  and  he  was  sluggish  and  arrogant."  And  I  an- 
swered and  said  unto  my  Son,  "At  what  time  dost  Thou 
wish  [men]  to  bring  sacrifice  and  offering,  O  my  Son  ?  " 
And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,  "  On  the  day  of 
the  [Christian]  Sabbath  I  wish  them  to  bring  the  Offer- 
ing at  daybreak  ;  on  the  Jewish  Sabbath  at  the  third 
hour.  Hast  thou  not  heard  that  He  said,  '  I  did  not 
come  to  destroy  the  Law  and  the  Prophets  but  to  fulfil 
them'?  (Matt,  v,  17).  Now,  I  did  not  destroy  (or, 
abolish)  the  first  Sabbath  without  [setting]  a  day  [in  its 
place]  ;  and  as  for  the  other  Sabbaths  let  them  hold 
them  in  honour  like  the  First  Day  of  the  Week." 

And  I  also  saw  a  man  whom  [the  angels  of  darkness] 
were  bringing  low  with  darts  of  fire.  And  I  asked  my 
Son,  saying,  "  What  is  the  name  of  this  man,  [and  what 
is  his  sin  ?  "  And  He  answered  and  said  unto  me,]  "His 
name  is '  Deacon,'  and  his  sin  I  will  describe  [Fol.  io6b] 
unto  thee.  He  did  not  bring  in  a  pure  sacrifice  quickly 
on  the  First  Day  of  the  Week.  This  shall  be  his  punish- 
ment for  ever." 

And  again  I  looked  at  that  river  of  fire  and  at  the 
place  where  a  pit  of  fire  had  been  dug.  And  I  saw  there 
men  and  women,  and  they  were  immersed  in  it  up  to 
their  necks,  and  there  were  serpents  and  vipers  of  fire 
in  every  part  of  their  hearts,  and  four  angels  of  darkness 
were  piercing  them  with  spears  of  fire.    And  I  wept 

275 


The  Vis  mi  of  Mary 

bitterly  and  cried  out  loudly,  and  I  said  unto  my  Son, 
"  Who  are  these  people  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  They  are  monks  and  nuns  who  did  not  walk  in  My 
path,  and  did  not  follow  in  My  footsteps,  but  made 
their  days  to  pass  in  fornication.  This  shall  be  their 
punishment  for  ever." 

And  again  I  saw  Jahannam  sealed  with  seven  seals. 
And  my  Son  cried  out,  saying,  "  Open  ye  the  doors  of 
Jahannam  that  Mary,  My  Mother,  may  see."  And 
when  those  doors  had  been  thrown  open  and  I  had  seen 
[Jahannam]  I  was  afraid  and  terrified,  and  I  said  unto 
Him,  "  What  is  this  river  ?  "  And  He  said  unto  me, 
"  Its  name  is  Jahannam."  And  I  answered  and  said 
unto  Him,  "  Who  are  they  who  dwell  therein  ?  "  He 
said,  "  These  are  they  who  said  that  the  Son  of  God 
was  not ;  this  shall  be  their  punishment  for  ever."  And 
when  all  those  who  were  under  torture  saw  me,  they 
cried  out,  saying,  "  Blessed  art  thou,  O  Mary,  and 
blessed  is  the  Fruit  of  thy  womb.  Blessed  are  the  eyes 
that  see  thee."  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  my  Son, 
"  Have  mercy  upon  them  for  my  sake,  O  my  Son;  there 
is  no  man  without  sin."  And  my  Son  answered  and  said 
unto  me,  "  From  the  eve  of  the  Sabbath  (i.e.  Sunday) 
until  the  second  day  of  the  week  dawneth,  the  sinners 
[in  Jahannam]  shall  have  respite  from  their  torture." 
And  our  Lord  said  unto  me,  "  Be  not  thou  sorrowful, 
O  My  Mother  !  He  who  hath  celebrated  thy  com- 
memoration, or  hath  called  upon  thy  name,  or  who 
hath  built  a  shrine  to  thee,  or  hath  written  the  history 
of  thy  words,  on  him  will  I  show  mercy  to  the  twelfth 
generation  for  thy  sake,  O  thou  who  didst  give  Me 
birth.  This  I  swear  unto  thee  by  My  Father,  and  by 
His  Son,  Myself,  and  by  the  flow  of  blood  from  My 
side,  for  the  redemption  of  [the  world],  and  by  His 
Spirit,  My  Spirit."  And  when  I  heard  His  voice  I  gave 
thanks  unto  Him. 

And  now,  O  John,  know  thou  and  be  certain  of  the 

276 


Mary  Visits  Paradise  a7id  Jahan7ia7n 

truth  of  all  these  things  that  I  have  told  thee.  And 
thou  shalt  not  lay  this  book  in  a  place  that  is  defiled. 
And  no  woman  who  is  with  child,  or  who  is  after  the 
manner  of  women,  shall  approach  the  place  where  it  is, 
and  no  woman  who  committeth  fornication  shall  draw 
nigh  unto  it.  [Fol.  107a]  No  man  of  evil  disposition 
shall  dwell  where  it  is.  What  will  it  profit  a  woman  who 
fornicateth  when  she  cometh  to  church  ?  And  what 
will  it  profit  the  fornicator  when  he  entereth  a  church? 
Hearken,  O  John.  Command  the  people  that  they  cele- 
brate my  commemoration  on  the  21st  day  of  the  month 
of  Ter  (January  16),^  and  on  the  21st  day  of  the  month 
of  Sane  (June  15),  and  on  the  i6th  day  of  the  month 
Nahasse  (August  9),^  and  on  the  i6th  day  of  the  month 
of  Yakatit  (February  10).  If  they  can,  let  them  cele- 
brate my  commemoration  each  month,  and  if  they  can- 
not do  so,  let  them  celebrate  it  each  year.  I  will  stand 
by  him  who  shall  celebrate  my  commemoration  on  the 
day  in  the  time  of  his  tribulation.  And  to  him  that 
hath  had  this  [book]  written,  and  to  him  that  wrote  it 
I  will  show  myself.  And  I  will  write  in  the  Book  of  Life 
the  names  of  him  that  readeth  it,  and  him  that  trans- 
lateth  it,  and  him  that  hath  hearkened  readily  to  the 
words  therein,  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 


HERE  ENDETH  THE  VISION  OF  MARY 

May  her  prayer  and  her  blessing,  and  the  mercy  of 
her  beloved  Son  be  with  her  servant  the  sinner  .  .  .  and 
with  all  her  slaves  and  her  handmaidens,  for  ever  and 
ever.  Amen.  And  may  Christ  write  the  names  of  the 
writer  and  the  man  who  had  this  book  written  upon  a 
pillar  of  red  gold  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven  for  ever  and 
ever.  Amen.  O  my  Lady  who  consolest,  who  art,  inas- 
much as  thy  word  is  shown  never  to  be   false,  the 


^  The  day  of  Mary's  death. 
2  The  day  of  Mary's  Ascension. 


277 


The  Visio7i  of  Mary 

Consoler  of  the  sinner,  thy  servant  Hayla  Shelase,  for 
ever  and  ever  !  Amen. 


Feed  me,  Mary,  thy  hireling  minister,  with 

The  bread  of  a  right  understanding  and  the  wine  of 

wisdom. 
Even  as  thou  didst  give  to  the  famished  dog  water  to 

drink. 
If  my  sin  increaseth  overmuch  among  the  people. 
Remember,  O  my  Lady,  thine  own  invincible  loving 

mercy. 


278 


VVEDDASE  MARYAM 

THE  BOOK  OF  THE  PRAISE  OF  MARY 

I.    A  HYMN  OF  PRAISE  FOR  THE  SABBATH  OF  THE 
CHRISTIANS 

I.  'T^HOU  wast  named  "Beloved  Woman,"  O 
X  blessed  among  women.  Thou  art  the  second 
chamber,  in  that  thou  wast  called  "  Holiest  of  Holies," 
and  in  it  was  the  table  of  the  Covenant  and  on  it  were 
the  Ten  Words  which  were  written  by  the  fingers  of 
God.  He  (i.e.  the  Father)  made  known  this  to  us  first 
of  all  by  "  Yawta  "  (i.e.  Iota),  which  is  the  first  [letter] 
of  the  Name  of  our  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ,  Who  be- 
came incarnate  of  thee  without  change,  and  became  the 
Mediator  of  the  New  Covenant,  and  by  the  shedding  of 
His  Holy  Blood  He  purified  the  believers  and  the  people 
who  were  pure.  And  because  of  this  we  all  magnify 
thee,  O  our  Lady,  thou  ever  pure  God-bearer.  We  be- 
seech thee  and  lift  our  eyes  to  thee,  so  that  we  may  find 
mercy  and  compassion  with  the  Lover  of  Men. 

2.  [Thou  art]  the  Tabot  (i.e.  Tabernacle,  or  Ark) 
which  was  covered  on  all  its  sides  with  gold,  and  was 
made  of  the  wood  that  never  perisheth,  and  that  fore- 
shadowed for  us  the  Word  of  God,  Who  became  man 
without  separation  and  change,  the  pure  and  undefiled 
Deity,  the  equal  of  the  Father.  To  thee,  as  the  pure 
woman,  [Gabriel]  announced  [Him]  without  seed.  And 
He  became  like  unto  us  through  the  might  of  His  wis- 
dom :  He  Who  was  incarnate  of  thee  and  He  Who  was 
spotless  mingled  His  Divinity  [without  nature].  And 
because  of  this — 

3.  [Thou]  sanctuary  which  the  Cherubim  who  are 

279 


IVedddse  Mdrydm 

fashioned  in  the  likeness  of  God  surround — the  Word, 
Who  was  incarnate  of  thee,  O  pure  woman,  without 
change  hath  become  the  Forgiver  of  our  sins  and  the 
Destroyer  of  our  transgressions.  And  because  of  this 

4.  Thou  art  the  holy  golden  pot  wherein  the  manna 
is  hidden,  the  bread  which  came  down  from  heaven,  the 
giver  of  life  unto  all  the  world.  And  because  of  this 

5.  Thou  art  the  golden  candlestick  and  dost  hold  the 
brilliant  Light  at  all  times,  the  Light  which  is  the  Light 
of  the  world,  the  Light  of  Lights  which  had  no  begin- 
ning, verily  God  of  God,  Who  became  incarnate  of  thee 
without  change.  And  by  His  coming  He  shed  light 
upon  us,  upon  those  of  us  who  were  sitting  in  the 
shadow  and  darkness  of  death,  and  He  set  our  feet  upon 
the  path  of  peace,  through  the  mystery  of  His  holy 
wisdom.   And  because  of  this 

6.  Thou  art  the  censer  of  gold  because  thou  didst 
carry  the  coals  of  the  blessed  fire  which  He  took  from 
the  sanctuary — He  Who  forgiveth  sin  and  destroyeth 
wickedness.  He  Who  is  the  Word  of  God,  Who  became 
incarnate  of  thee,  and  Who  offered  up  to  His  Father 
incense  and  precious  offerings.  And  because  of  this 

7.  [Thou  art]  the  garden  of  delight,  the  garden  of 
joy,  which  is  planted  with  the  trees  of  Lebanon,  and 
was  prepared  for  the  saints  before  the  world  was 
created.  [On]  a  great  chariot,  which  was  guarded  by 
Cherubim  and  Seraphim  that  were  fashioned  out  of 
flame  of  fire,  one  of  the  Seraphim  visited  her  from 
heaven,  and  said  unto  her  in  the  sanctuary,  "  Blessed 
art  thou  among  women.  The  Holy  Spirit  shall  come 
upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest  shall  over- 
shadow thee,  for  He  Who  dwelleth  above  the  Cherubim 
shall  become  the  Light  for  all  the  world."  Thou  art  the 
sweet-scented  flower  which  hath  sprung  from  the  root 
of  Jesse.   And  because  of  this 

8.  Thou  art  like  unto  the  rod  of  Aaron,  which,  with- 
out being  planted  in  the  ground  and  without  watering, 

280 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

burst  into  blossom.  In  like  manner  thou,  O  Bearer  of 
Christ,  didst  bring  forth  Christ  our  God  in  truth,  with- 
out seed.  He  came  and  delivered  us.  And  because  of 
this 

9.  It  is  meet  for  thee,  O  thou  who  art  full  of  grace, 
more  than  for  all  the  saints  to  pray  on  our  behalf.  Thou 
art  greater  than  the  high-priests,  and  thou  art  more 
honourable  than  the  Prophets ;  in  thee  there  is  majesty 
of  appearance  which  is  greater  than  the  majesty  of  the 
Seraphim  and  Cherubim.  Verily  thou  art  the  glory  of 
our  race,  and  thou  art  she  who  must  beg  for  life  for  our 
souls.  Pray  thou  then  on  our  behalf  to  our  Lord  and 
Redeemer  Jesus  Christ  that  He  may  confirm  us  in  the 
Right  Faith,  that  is  to  say,  faith  in  Him,  and  that  He 
may  graciously  bestow  upon  us  His  mercy  and  com- 
passion, and  may  in  His  abundant  mercy  forgive  us  our 
sins  for  ever  and  ever.   Amen. 


ii.  a  hymn  of  praise  for  the  second  day  of  the  week 
(monday) 

1 .  God  wished  to  set  free  Adam,  who  was  sad  at  heart 
and  sorrowful,  and  in  the  greatness  of  His  compassion 
and  mercy  to  bring  him  back  to  the  state  wherein  he 
was  formerly.  He  rose  up  in  flesh  of  the  Virgin  without 
the  seed  of  man.  He  came,  He  saved  us. 

2.  God  passed  the  decree  of  judgement  upon  Eve 
whom  the  serpent  led  astray,  saying,  "  I  will  multiply 
greatly  thy  pain  and  thy  suffering"  (Gen.iii,i6).  Never- 
theless, His  heart  inclined  to  love  for  man,  and  He  set 
him  free.   He  hath  appeared. 

3.  Jesus  Christ,  the  Word  Who  became  incarnate, 
and  He  dwelt  with  us,  and  we  saw  His  glory  like  the 
glory  of  the  Only-begotten  of  His  Father  (John  i,  14), 
He  hath  been  pleased  to  show  compassion  upon  us.  He 
hath  appeared. 

4.  Isaiah  the  Prophet  in  the  spirit  of  prophecy  saw 

281 


JVedddse  Mdrydm 

the  mystery  of  Emmanuel,  and  therefore  he  cried  out, 
saying,  "A  Child  is  born  unto  us,  a  Son  is  given  unto 
us  "  (Isaiah  ix,  6).   He  hath  appeared. 

5.  Rejoice  and  be  glad,  O  race  of  the  children  of  men, 
for  God  hath  loved  the  world,  and  given  His  only  Son 
that  all  who  believe  in  Him  may  have  everlasting  life 
(John  iii,  16).  The  Most  High  hath  sent  unto  us  His 
arm.   He  hath  appeared. 

6.  He  Who  was  and  shall  be.  He  Who  came  and  shall 
come  again,  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  Word  Who  became  in- 
carnate without  any  change.  He  was  a  perfect  man, 
without  division  and  without  separation,  in  all  His  work 
the  Only-begotten,  but  with  one  form,  one  being,  and 
one  divinity  (or.  Godhead) — God  the  Word.  He  hath 
appeared. 

7.  Rejoice,  O  Bethlehem,  the  town  of  the  Prophets, 
for  in  thee  was  born  Christ,  the  second  Adam,  so  that 
He  might  bring  the  first  Adam  from  the  earth  into  the 
Garden  (i.e.  Paradise),  and  destroy  the  doom  of  death. 
O  Adam,  dust  thou  art  and  to  dust  shalt  thou  return. 
Where  sin  abounded  there  the  grace  of  God  abounded 
likewise  (Romans  v,  20).   He  hath  appeared. 

8.  Let  all  souls  of  men  rejoice  and  be  glad  with  the 
angels,  and  let  them  praise  Christ,  the  King^  and  cry 
out  and  say,  "  Glory  to  God  in  the  heavens,  and  peace 
on  the  earth,  [and]  His  good  will  to  men  "  (Luke  ii,  14). 
He  hath  abolished  the  things  of  old,  and  overthrown 
the  plot  of  the  Enemy,  and  torn  in  pieces  the  bill  of 
indictment  (Ephesians  ii,  15)  of  Adam  and  Eve  and  set 
them  free, — He  Who  was  born  for  us  in  the  city  of 
David,  our  Redeemer,  Jesus  Christ  hath  done  this.  He 
hath  appeared. 

9.  Thou  Light,  Who  in  truth  illuminest  all  men  who 
dwell  in  the  world,  because  of  Thy  love  for  man  Thou 
hast  come  into  the  world.  All  created  things  rejoiced  at 
Thy  coming,  because  Thou  didst  deliver  Adam  from 
his  error,  and  didst  set  free  Eve  from  the  suffering  of 

282 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

death,  and  hast  given  unto  us  the  soul  of  prophecy. 
We  bless  Thee  with  Thine  angels. 

[Rubric].  On  fast  days  thou  shalt  say  thus  :  Christ 
hath  risen  up  in  the  flesh  of  the  Virgin :  He  fasted  forty 
days  and  forty  nights  in  order  that  He  might  deliver  us. 

iii.  a  hymn  of  praise  for  the  third  day  of  the  week 
(tuesday) 

1.  The  crown  of  our  glory,  and  the  origin  of  our  de- 
liverance (or  salvation)  and  the  foundation  of  our  sanc- 
tification  came  into  being  in  Mary  the  Virgin,  who 
brought  for  us  God  the  Word,  Who  became  incarnate 
for  our  salvation.  And  after  He  became  man  of  a  cer- 
tainty He  was  perfect  God.  And  for  this  reason  she 
gave  birth  to  Him  being  a  virgin.  The  power  of  her 
bringing  forth  is  a  marvellous  thing  that  cannot  be  de- 
scribed. Of  His  own  free  will,  and  by  the  good  pleasure 
of  His  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  He  came  forth  and 
hath  delivered  us. 

2.  Great  is  the  praise  of  thy  virginity,  O  Mary,  thou 
perfect  (or  absolute)  virgin.  Thou  didst  receive  grace, 
God  was  with  thee.  Thou  art  the  Ladder  which  Jacob 
saw  reaching  from  earth  to  heaven,  with  the  angels  of 
God  ascending  and  descending  upon  it  (Genesis  xxviii, 
12).    So  then 

3.  Thou  art  the  Bush  which  Moses  saw  blazing  with 
fire,  and  the  wood  thereof  was  not  consumed  (Exodus 
iii,  2).  It  was  the  Son  of  God  Who  dwelt  in  thy  womb, 
and  the  fire  of  His  divinity  did  not  consume  thy  flesh. 
So  then 

4.  Thou  art  that  Field  wherein  no  seed  was  sown, 
and  yet  there  went  forth  from  thee  the  Fruit  of  Life. 
Thou  art  that  Treasure-house  which  Joseph  bought, 
and  he  found  therein  a  Pearl,  a  precious  gem,  that  is  to 
say,  our  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ.  Thou  didst  carry  it  in 
thy  womb  and  didst  bring  Him  forth  into  the  world. 
So  then 

283 


Wedddse  Mary  dm 

5.  Rejoice  thou,  O  God-bearer,  thou  joy  of  the 
angels.  Rejoice  thou,  who  wast  the  woman  foretold  by 
the  Prophets.  Rejoice  thou,  for  thou  didst  find  favour, 
God  was  with  thee.  Rejoice  thou,  for  thou  hast  received 
the  voice  of  the  Angel  [Gabriel],  the  joy  of  all  the 
world.  Rejoice  thou,  O  Bearer  of  the  Creator  of  all  the 
world.  So  then 

6.  Rejoice  thou  because  it  is  meet  that  thou  shouldst 
be  called,  "  Bearer  of  God."  Rejoice  thou,  O  thou 
woman  who  deliveredst  Eve.  Rejoice  thou,  for  thou 
didst  suckle  Him  Who  suckleth  all  creation.  Rejoice 
thou,  O  holy  woman,  the  mother  of  all  living  beings. 
We  lift  our  eyes  to  thee  with  entreaty  that  thou  wilt 
pray  on  our  behalf.    So  then, 

7.  O  Virgin,  O  Saint,  O  Bearer  of  God,  since  thou 
didst  bring  forth  the  King,  a  marvellous  mystery  dwelt 
upon  thee  for  our  salvation.  We  will  hold  our  peace,  for 
we  are  unable  to  search  into  the  matter  completely,  as 
the  greatness  thereof  requireth,  and  will  describe  that 
Doer  of  good  things,  through  the  exceedingly  great 
wonder  of  the  manifestation.   So  then 

8.  He  was  the  Living  Word  of  the  Father  Who  came 
down  on  Mount  Sinai,  and  gave  the  Law  to  Moses 
(Exodus  xix,  16  ff.)  whilst  the  top  of  the  mountain  was 
covered  with  mist,  and  with  smoke,  and  with  darkness, 
and  with  storm,  and  with  the  terrifying  blasts  of  trum- 
pets. He  admonished  those  who  were  standing  there  in 
fear.   So  then 

9.  It  was  He  Who  came  down  to  thee,  O  rational 
mountain,  in  the  humility  of  the  Lover  of  men.  With- 
out any  change  He  became  incarnate  of  thee,  and  took 
a  perfect  body,  endowed  with  reason  and  like  unto  our- 
selves, through  the  spirit  of  wisdom.  God  took  up  His 
abode  on  her  and  became  perfect  man  so  that  He  might 
deliver  Adam,  and  forgive  him  his  sin,  and  make  him  to 
dwell  in  heaven,  and  bring  him  back  to  his  former  state 
in  His  abundant  compassion  and  mercy.   So  then 

284 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

10.  It  is  impossible  for  any  to  describe  the  greatness 
of  the  Virgin.  For  God  chose  her,  and  He  came  and 
dwelt  upon  her.  He  Who  dwelt  in  the  light,  Whom 
none  could  approach,  was  carried  in  her  womb  nine 
months.  He  Who  is  invisible,  He  Who  is  incomprehen- 
sible did  Mary  bring  forth,  being  a  virgin.   So  then 

11.  This  is  the  stone  which  Daniel  the  prophet  saw, 
which  was  hewn  from  a  high  mountain,  without  hands 
(Daniel  ii,  34,  35),  that  is  to  say,  the  Word  Who  went 
forth  from  the  Father.  He  came  and  became  incarnate 
of  the  Virgin  without  seed  of  men,  and  delivered  us. 
So  then 

12.  Thou  art  the  pure  twig  and  the  right  vessel  of 
the  True  Faith  of  the  saints  our  Fathers.  O  thou  pure 
God-bearer,  O  thou  sealed  Virgin,  thou  didst  bring 
forth  for  us  the  Word  of  the  Father,  Jesus  Christ.  He 
came  and  He  hath  delivered  us.   So  then 

13.  Thou  art  the  Mother  of  the  Glorious  Light,  O 
God-bearer.  Thou  didst  carry  the  Word  Who  is  in- 
visible, and  after  thou  hadst  brought  Him  forth  thou 
didst  continue  to  be  a  virgin.  With  praise  and  blessing 
shall  men  magnify  thee.   So  then 

14.  What  tongue  is  able  to  proclaim  that  which 
should  be  declared  concerning  thee,  O  thou  pure  Vir- 
gin, Mother  of  the  Light,  the  Word  of  the  Father  ? 
Thou  wast  the  throne  of  the  King  Whom  the  Cheru- 
bim carry.  We  ascribe  blessings  unto  thee,  O  blessed 
woman,  and  we  will  remember  thy  name  from  genera- 
tion to  generation,  O  Beautiful  Dove,  Mother  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.   So  then 

15.  Rejoice  thou,  O  Mary,  Mother  and  Maid,  for 
unto  Him  Who  is  in  thy  bosom  the  angels  bring  praises, 
and  the  Cherubim  bow  down  and  worship  Him  in  fear, 
and  the  Seraphim  spread  out  their  wings,  and  say  con- 
cerning Him  ceaselessly,  "  This  is  the  King  of  Glory." 
He  came  to  forgive  the  sins  of  the  world  in  the  great- 
ness of  His  compassion. 

285 


Wedddse  Mary  dm 


IV.    A     HYMN    OF  PRAISE  FOR  THE   FOURTH  DAY  OF  THE 

WEEK  (Wednesday) 

1 .  All  the  hosts  of  the  heavens  say,  "  Blessed  art  thou, 
O  thou  second  heaven  upon  the  earth,  Door  of  the  sun- 
rise (or,  the  East),  Mary  the  Virgin,  thou  pure  Bride- 
chamber  of  the  Holy  Bridegroom.  The  Father  looked 
down  from  heaven,  and  found  none  like  unto  thee  ;  He 
sent  His  only  One,  and  He  became  incarnate  of  thee. 
All  generations  shall  ascribe  blessings  unto  thee,  thou 
who  alone  art  our  Lady,  the  Bearer  of  God." 

2.  Great  and  wonderful  things  have  [the  Prophets] 
prophesied  concerning  thee,  O  City  of  God,  for  thou 
art  the  abode  of  all  those  who  rejoice.  All  the  kings  of 
the  earth  walk  in  thy  light  and  [all]  the  nations  in  thy 
splendour  (Isaiah  Ix,  3).  O  Mary,  all  generations  shall 
ascribe  blessings  unto  thee,  and  shall  worship  Him  Who 
was  brought  forth  by  thee,  and  shall  magnify  Him.  All 
[of  them]. 

3.  Thou  art  in  very  truth  the  Cloud,  and  thou  hast 
shown  us  the  water  of  the  rain,  the  sign  of  the  Only- 
begotten.  The  Father  established  thee,  the  Holy  Ghost 
took  up  His  abode  on  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Most 
High  overshadowed  thee,  O  Mary,  and  verily  thou 
didst  bring  forth  the  Word,  the  Son  of  God,  Who  en- 
dureth  for  ever.  He  came  and  hath  delivered  us  from 
sin. 

4.  Great  was  the  honour  that  was  bestowed  upon 
thee,  O  Gabriel,  the  Angel  of  the  Annunciation  with 
the  joyful  face.  Thou  didst  proclaim  unto  us  the  birth 
of  the  Lord,  Who  hath  come  to  us,  and  thou  didst  an- 
nounce Him  to  Mary,  the  spotless  Virgin,  and  didst  say 
unto  her,  "  Rejoice  thou,  O  thou  who  art  full  of  grace, 
God  is  with  thee  "  (Luke  i,  28).   All  [of  them]. 

5.  Thou  didst  find  grace,  the  Holy  Spirit  dwelt  upon 
thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Most  High  overshadowed 

286 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  oj   Mary 

thee,  O  Mary.  Verily  thou  didst  bring  forth  the  H0I7 
Saviour  for  all  the  world.  He  came  and  He  hath  de- 
livered us.   All  [of  them]. 

6.  Our  tongue  this  day  praiseth  the  work  of  the  Vir- 
gin. We  praise  Mary,  the  God-bearer,  because  our 
Lord  and  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ  was  born  of  her  in  the 
city  of  David.  Come,  O  all  ye  nations,  and  let  us  ascribe 
blessing  unto  Mary,  for  she  is  at  once  mother  and  vir- 
gin. Rejoice,  O  pure  Virgin,  in  whom  there  is  no 
blemish,  to  whom  came  the  Word  of  the  Father,  Who 
was  incarnate  of  her.  Rejoice,  O  Vessel  unblemished, 
perfect,  and  spotless  Woman. 

7.  Rejoice  thou,  O  Garden  endowed  with  reason, 
thou  Abode  of  Christ,  Who  became  the  Second  Adam 
because  of  the  First  Adam,  the  man.  Rejoice  thou,  O 
woman  who  borest  the  Only-begotten,  Who,  having 
gone  forth  from  the  bosom  of  His  Father,  suffered  no 
change.  Rejoice,  O  thou  pure  Bride-chamber,  who  art 
adorned  with  all  the  beauty  of  praise.  He  came  and  was 
incarnate  of  thee.  Rejoice,  O  Thorn-bush,  who  wast 
not  consumed  by  the  fire  of  the  Godhead.  Rejoice  thou, 
O  Mother  and  Maid,  Virgin,  thou  second  heaven,  who 
didst  carry  in  thy  body  Him  Who  is  borne  aloft  by  the 
Cherubim  and  Seraphim. 

8.  And  because  of  this  we  rejoice,  and  we  sing  with 
the  holy  angels  with  joy  and  gladness,  and  we  say, 
"  Glory  to  God  in  the  heavens,  and  peace  upon  earth, 
His  good  will  to  men  "  (Luke  ii,  14).  For  He  unto 
Whom  belong  glory  and  praise  for  ever  and  ever  is  well- 
pleased  with  thee.  Amen.  All  [of  them]. 

9.  The  glory  of  Mary  is  greater  than  that  of  all  the 
saints,  for  she  was  worthy  to  receive  the  Word  of  the 
Father.  Him  Who  maketh  the  angels  to  be  afraid.  Him 
Whom  the  Watching  Angels  in  heaven  praise,  did  Mary 
the  Virgin  carry  in  her  womb.  She  is  greater  than  the 
Cherubim,  and  superior  to  the  Seraphim,  for  she  was 
the  Ark  (or  Tabernacle)  of  One  of  the  Holy  Trinity. 

287 


IVedddse  Mdrydm 

She  is  Jerusalem,  the  city  of  the  Prophets,  and  she  is 
thehabitationof  the  joy  of  all  the  saints.  On  the  people 
who  sat  in  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death  hath  a 
great  Light  risen.  God  Who  resteth  in  His  holiness  be- 
came incarnate  of  a  virgin  for  our  salvation.  Come  ye 
and  look  upon  this  marvellous  thing,  and  sing  ye  His 
song  because  of  the  mystery  that  hath  been  revealed 
unto  us.  For  He  Who  was  became  a  man,  the  Word 
mingled  [with  our  nature],  He  Who  had  no  beginning 
[assumed]  a  beginning  for  Himself,  and  He  Who  had 
no  days  [reckoned]  to  Himself  days,  and  He  Who  could 
not  be  known  became  revealed,  and  He  Who  was  in- 
visible showed  Himself  ;  the  Son  of  the  Living  God 
became  a  man  indeed,  Jesus  Christ,  yesterday,  to-day, 
and  for  ever  (Hebrews  xiii,  8),  One  Nature,  Him  do  we 
worship  and  praise.  All  [of  them]. 

10.  Ezekiel  the  Prophet  testified  concerning  her  and 
said,  "  I  see  a  sealed  door  in  the  East,  sealed  with  a 
great  and  wonderful  seal,  and  no  one  save  the  God  of 
the  mighty  ones  hath  gone  in  through  it.  He  went  in 
and  He  came  out  "  (Ezekiel  xliii,  4 ;  xliv,  i,  2).  All  [of 
them]. 

11.  This  door  is  the  Virgin  who  brought  forth  for  us 
the  Redeemer.  And  after  she  brought  Him  forth  she 
remained  in  her  virginity  after  she  had  brought  Him 
forth.  Blessed  is  the  Fruit  of  thy  womb,  O  God-bearer, 
Who  came  and  delivered  us  out  of  the  hand  of  the 
Enemy  who  was  merciless.  Complete  art  thou  and 
blessed ;  thou  hast  found  grace  with  the  King  of  Glory, 
the  God  in  truth. 

12.  Majesty  and  glory  belong  to  thee  more  than  to 
all  those  who  dwell  upon  the  earth.  The  Word  of  the 
Father  came  and  was  incarnate  of  thee,  and  walked 
about  with  men,  for  He  is  compassionate  and  a 
Lover  of  men.  He  delivered  our  souls  by  His  holy 
comins:. 


288 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 


V.    A   HYMN  OF  PRAISE  FOR   THE   FIFTH   DAY  OF  THE 

WEEK  (Thursday) 

1.  The  Bush  which  Moses  saw  in  flaming  fire  in  the 
desert,  the  wood  of  which  was  not  consumed,  is  a  simili- 
tude of  Mary,  the  Virgin  who  was  spotless.  The  Word 
of  the  Father  became  incarnate  of  her,  and  the  fire  of 
His  Godhead  did  not  consume  the  Virgin,  and  after  she 
had  brought  Him  forth  her  virginity  was  maintained, 
and  His  Godhead  was  unchanged.  Our  God,  Who 
verily  is  God,  became  a  man  ;  He  came  and  delivered 
us.  We  all  magnify  thee,  O  our  Lady,  the  God-bearer, 
that  thy  compassion  may  be  over  us  all. 

2.  The  Virgin  Mary,  the  God-Bearer,  hath  become 
the  object  of  the  boast  of  all  of  us,  because  through  her 
was  destroyed  the  curse  of  olden  time,  which  rested 
upon  our  race,  through  the  wickedness  which  the  woman 
committed  [when]  she  ate  [of]  the  tree.  Through  Eve 
was  the  door  of  the  Garden  shut  fast,  and  because  of 
Mary  the  Virgin  it  hath  been  opened  to  us  again.  It  is 
allotted  to  us  to  eat  of  the  Tree  of  Life,  that  is  to  say, 
the  Body  of  Christ  and  His  precious  Blood.  Because  of 
His  love  for  us  He  came  and  delivered  us. 

3.  What  understanding,  and  what  language,  and 
what  hearing  is  able  to  comprehend  this  mystery,  which 
must  be  proclaimed  to  be  wonderful,  "  God  is  the  lover 
of  men  ?  "  One  is  He  Alone,  the  Word  of  the  Father, 
Who  existed  before  the  world  in  His  incorruptible  God- 
head, from  One,  the  Father.  The  Only-begotten  Son 
came  and  was  incarnate  of  the  holy  woman  His  mother, 
and  after  she  brought  Him  forth  her  virginity  perished 
not,  and  because  of  this  it  became  manifest  that  she  was 
the  Bearer  of  God. 

4.  O  deep  is  the  richness  of  the  wisdom  of  God  ! 
The  womb  which  He  decreed  should  bring  forth  chil- 
dren in  pain,  and  suffering,  and  sorrow  of  heart,  hath 

u  289 


iVedddse  Mary  am 

become  the  fountain  of  life,  and  hath  brought  forth 
without  the  seed  of  man  Him  Who  removed  the  curse 
from  our  race.  And  for  this  reason  we  will  praise  Him, 
saying,  "  Glory  be  unto  Thee,  O  Thou  Good  Friend  of 
man,  the  Redeemer  of  our  souls."  We  will  magnify 
thee  [,0  Mary]. 

5.  O  how  wonderful  and  mighty  in  power  was  the 
womb  of  the  Virgin,  which  brought  forth  God  without 
seed  !  And  of  this  the  angel  who  appeared  unto  Joseph 
was  a  witness  when  he  spake,  saying,  "  That  which  shall 
be  born  of  her  is  of  the  Holy  Spirit  "  (Matthew  i,  20). 
It  was  the  Word  of  God  Who  became  incarnate  with- 
out change.  Mary  brought  Him  forth  a  second  time. 
And  Gabriel  rejoiced  and  said  unto  her,  "  Thou  shalt 
bring  forth  a  Son  and  shalt  call  His  Name  Emmanuel, 
which  is,  being  interpreted,  God  with  us.  And  more- 
over. He  shall  be  called  Jesus,  Who  shall  save  His  people 
from  their  sins  "  (Matthew  i,  20,  24).  And  may  He 
save  us  also  by  His  power,  and  forgive  our  sins,  because 
we  have  known  in  truth  that  He  is  the  God  Who  be- 
came man.  Praise  be  unto  Him  for  ever  and  ever. 

6.  O  how  wonderful  is  the  birth  of  God  by  Mary, 
the  Holy  Virgin !  She  completed  the  Word  of  the 
Father  ;  seed  did  not  precede  His  Birth,  and  her  vir- 
ginity was  not  destroyed  by  His  Birth.  The  Word  went 
forth  from  the  Father  without  weariness  and  was  born 
of  the  Virgin  without  suffering  (or  pain).  The  wise  men 
worshipped  Him,  and  brought  unto  Him  incense  be- 
cause He  was  God,  and  gold  because  He  was  the  King, 
and  myrrh,  which  was  given  for  His  death  which  gave 
life  [unto  men].  And  for  our  sakes  He  accepted  [death] 
of  His  own  free  will.  He  alone  is  the  Good  Being  and 
the  Lover  of  men.   We  will  magnify  thee  [,0  Mary]. 

7.  O  how  wonderful !  He  took  a  rib  from  the  side  of 
Adam,  and  fashioned  from  it  a  woman,  and  the  whole 
creation  of  the  children  of  men  was  given  to  God,  the 
Word  of  the  Father,  Who  was  incarnate  of  the  Holy 

290 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

Virgin,  and  is  called  Emmanuel.  And  because  of  this 
we  beseech  her  at  all  times  to  strive  on  our  behalf  with 
her  beloved  Son  for  the  forgiveness  of  our  sins.  She  was 
beneficent  towards  all  the  saints  and  the  high  priests, 
for  she  brought  to  them  that  for  which  they  waited, 
and  she  brought  to  the  Prophets  Him  concerning  Whom 
they  had  prophesied,  and  she  brought  forth  to  the 
Apostles  Him  in  Whose  Name  they  were  to  preach  in  all 
the  ends  of  the  world,  and  from  her  went  forth  for  the 
martyrs  and  believers  Him  for  Whom  they  were  to  fight, 
Jesus  Christ.  The  richness  of  the  grace  of  His  wisdom 
cannot  be  fathomed.  We  will  seek  after  the  greatness 
of  His  compassion,  for  He  came  and  delivered  us.  We 
will  magnify  thee  [,0  Mary]. 

8.  God  swore  unto  David  in  righteousness,  and  He 
will  not  repent,  "  Of  the  fruit  of  thy  belly  I  will  seat 
uponthythrone"(2Sam.vii,  12;  Psalm  cxxxii,  11).  And 
when  that  righteous  man  received  it  from  Him,  that 
Christ  should  be  born  of  him  in  the  flesh,  he  wished  to 
seek  out  and  to  prepare  a  dwelling-place  for  God,  the 
Word  of  the  Father.  And  he  completed  it  with  great 
effort  and  then  he  cried  out  in  the  Holy  Spirit  and  said, 
*'  Behold,  we  have  heard  it  in  Efrata  and  the  dwelling- 
place  of  the  God  of  Jacob,  which  is  Bethlehem,  in 
which  Emmanuel  hath  chosen  to  be  born  in  the  flesh 
for  our  salvation  "  (compare  Psalm  cxxxii,  6). 

9.  And  also  another  of  the  prophets  hath  said  it  : 
"And  as  for  thee,  O  Bethlehem  [of]  the  land  of  Efrata, 
thou  shalt  not  be  the  least  of  the  kings  of  Judah,  for 
from  thee  shall  go  forth  a  King  Who  shall  rule  My 
people  Israel  "  (Micah  v,  2).  O  how  wonderful  is  the 
word  of  those  who  prophesied  concerning  Christ  in  one 
Spirit,  to  Whom  be  glory,  together  with  His  Good 
Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  henceforth  and  for  ever. 
We  will  magnify  thee  [,0  Mary]. 

10.  When  evil  men  revolted  against  David  who 
reigned  over  Israel,  he  wished  to  drink  water  from  the 

291 


Weddase  Ma?ydm 

pool  of  Bethlehem,  whereupon  straightway  the  cap- 
tains of  his  hosts  rose  up,  and  waged  war  in  the  camp 
of  the  rebels,  and  brought  unto  him  that  water  which 
he  wished  to  drink.  And  when  that  righteous  man  saw 
that  they  had  willingly  delivered  themselves  over  to 
slaughter  for  his  sake,  he  poured  out  that  water  [unto 
the  Lord]  and  did  not  drink  of  it  (2  Samuel  xxiii,  13-17; 
I  Chron.  xi,  18,  19).  And  then  righteousness  was  ac- 
counted unto  him  for  ever.  And  verily  in  like  manner 
have  the  martyrs  rejected  the  desire  of  this  world,  and 
poured  out  their  blood  for  God,  and  have  endured 
bitter  death[s]  for  the  sake  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
Have  compassion  upon  us  according  to  the  greatness  of 
Thy  compassion.  We  will  magnify  thee  [,  O  Mary]. 

II.  One  of  the  Holy  Trinity  saw  our  low  estate, 
bowed  the  heaven  of  heavens,  came  and  dwelt  in  the 
womb  of  the  Virgin,  and  became  a  man  like  unto  us, 
with  the  exception  of  sin  alone.  And  He  was  born  in 
Bethlehem,  according  to  what  the  Prophets  preached. 
He  delivered  us,  and  redeemed  us,  and  made  us  His  own 
people  for  ever  and  ever. 

VI.     A   HYMN   OF   PRAISE  FOR  SABBATH   EVE   (fRIDAy) 

1.  Blessed  art  thou  among  women,  and  blessed  is  the 
fruit  of  thy  womb,  O  Mary  the  Virgin,  the  spotless 
God-bearer.  From  thee  hath  risen  upon  us  the  Sun  of 
righteousness,  and  He  hath  drawn  us  near  [to  Him] 
under  His  wings,  for  He  hath  created  us.  Thou  thyself 
alone,  O  our  Lady,  the  God-bearer,  art  the  Mother  of 
the  Light.  We  will  magnify  thee  with  glorifyings  and 
praisings. 

2.  Blessed  art  thou  !  Thou  art  greater  than  heaven, 
and  more  glorious  than  earth,  and  exalted  above  the 
conception  of  every  mind  ;  who  is  able  to  declare  thy 
greatness  ?  There  is  none  who  can  be  compared  with 
thee,  O  Mary  the  Virgin.    The  angels  magnify  thee, 

292 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

and  the  Seraphim  praise  thee,  for  He  Who  dwelleth 
upon  the  Cherubim  and  Seraphim  came  and  took  up 
His  abode  in  thy  womb.  The  Lover  of  men  hath 
brought  us  nigh  unto  Himself,  the  death  that  belonged 
to  us  He  hath  removed,  and  hath  given  unto  us  the  Life 
that  was  His.  To  Him  belong  glory,  and  praise.  To  thee. 

3.  Blessed  art  thou,  Mary,  and  blessed  is  the  Fruit 
of  thy  womb.  O  virgin  God-Bearer,  the  glory  of  [all] 
virgins ;  He  Who  existed  before  the  world  became  in- 
carnate of  thee.  The  Ancient  of  days  came  forth  from 
thy  womb.  He  took  our  flesh,  and  gave  us  His  Holy 
Spirit,  and  in  His  abundant  goodness  made  us  co-equals 
with  Him.  Thou  art  greater  than  many  women  who 
have  received  grace  and  honour,  O  Mary  the  God- 
Bearer,  thou  spiritual  city  wherein  God  the  Most  High 
took  up  His  abode.  Him  Who  sitteth  above  the  Cheru- 
bim and  Seraphim  hast  thou  clasped  with  the  hand. 
And  He,  Who  of  His  abundant  goodness  feedeth  every 
being  of  flesh,  hath  taken  thy  breast  and  sucked  milk 
therefrom — He  Who  is  our  God  and  the  Redeemer  of 
all,  He  shall  shepherd  us  for  ever.  Let  us  worship  Him 
and  praise  Him,  for  He  hath  created  us.  To  thee. 

4.  Mary  the  Virgin  is  the  vessel  of  priceless  oint- 
ment, the  fountain-head  (or  spring)  of  the  water  of  life. 
The  Fruit  of  her  womb  hath  saved  all  the  world,  and 
abolished  the  curse  which  lay  upon  us,  and  made  peace 
[to  be]  among  us.  By  His  Cross  and  by  His  holy  Resur- 
rection hath  He  brought  man  back  again  into  the  Gar- 
den (i.e.  Paradise).   To  thee. 

5.  Mary,  the  pure  Virgin,  the  Bearer  of  God,  pray- 
eth  continually  with  compassion  for  the  children  of 
men.  Pray  thou  for  us  to  thy  Son  Christ  that  He  may 
forgive  us  and  have  compassion  upon  us.  To  thee. 

6.  Mary  the  Virgin  cried  out  in  the  Sanctuary,  say- 
ing, "  God  knoweth  that  I  know  no  one  and  nothing 
more  than  the  sound  of  the  voice  of  the  angel,  who  with 
honour  brought  unto  me  glad  tidings,  and  said  unto 

293 


Wedclase  Maryam 

me,  '  Peace  be  unto  thee,  O  holy  Virgin.  Thou  shalt 
carry  Him  Who  cannot  be  carried,  and  shalt  contain 
Him  Who  cannot  be  contained,  and  Whom  nothing  can 
contain.'  "  Thy  praise  shall  be  abundant,  O  thou  who 
art  full  of  grace  and  honour,  for  thou  didst  become  the 
dwelling-place  of  the  Word  of  the  Father.  Thou  art 
the  tent  that  is  spread  out  (i.e.  pitched)  and  that  gather- 
eth  together  believing  Christian  folk,  and  teacheth  them 
to  worship  the  life-giving  Trinity. 

7.  Thou  art  she  who  bore  the  Pillar  of  fire,  which 
Moses  saw,  that  is  to  say,  the  Son  of  God,  Who  came 
and  dwelt  in  thy  womb.  Thou  wast  the  Ark  of  the 
Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth.  Thou  didst  carry 
Him  in  thy  womb  nine  months.  Thou  hadst  in  trust 
Him  Whom  the  heavens  and  the  earth  cannot  contain. 
Thou  wast  the  Ladder  whereby  man  ascended  into 
heaven.  Thy  light  is  greater  than  the  light  of  the  sun. 
Thou  art  the  eastern  horizon,  whereout  came  the  bril- 
liant star  which  the  saints  looked  upon  with  joy  and 
gladness.  The  decree  that  God  passed  upon  Eve  was, 
*'  Thou  shalt  bring  forth  children  with  toil  and  suffer- 
ing," but  thou  didst  hear  a  voice,  saying,  "  Rejoice,  O 
full  of  grace,  thou  hast  brought  forth  for  us  the  Word 
of  the  Father,  the  King,  the  God  of  all  creation."  He 
came  and  delivered  us,  for  He  is  the  Compassionate 
Lover  of  men.  And  because  of  this  we  praise  thee,  even 
as  did  the  Angel  Gabriel,  saying,  "  Blessed  art  thou 
among  women,  and  blessed  is  the  Fruit  of  thy  womb  ; 
rejoice,  O  thou  who  art  full  of  grace,  God  is  with  thee!" 

vii.   a  song  of  praise  for  the  first  sabbath 

(Saturday) 

I.  Pure  and  shining,  holy  and  praiseworthy  art  thou 

in  everything,  O  thou  who  hast  clasped  the  Lord  in  her 

hand.  All  creation  rejoiceth  with  her,  and  crieth  out, 

saying,  "  Rejoice,  O  full  of  grace,  rejoice  thou,  for  thou 

hast  found  favour  ;  rejoice  thou,  for  God  is  with  thee." 

294 


The  Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary 

2.  We  ascribe  blessings  to  thy  greatness,  O  awesome 
Virgin,  and  we  send  to  thee  joy  with  the  angel  Gabriel, 
for  the  Fruit  of  thy  womb  hath  become  the  salvation 
of  our  race,  and  hath  brought  us  nigh  unto  God  His 
Father.   Rejoice  thou. 

3.  As  at  a  marriage  undefiled  the  Holy  Ghost  took 
up  His  abode  on  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Most  High 
overshadowed  thee.  O  Mary,  verily  thou  hast  brought 
forth  for  us  the  Word,  the  Son  of  the  Father,  Who 
dwelleth  (or  existeth)  for  ever.  He  came  and  saved  us 
from  sin.   Rejoice  thou. 

4.  Thou  art  the  young  Shoot  from  the  root  of  David. 
Thou  hast  brought  forth  for  us  in  the  flesh  our  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Only-begotten  Word,  Who  was  of  the 
Father,  Who  was  hidden  before  the  world,  and  hiding 
Himself  took  from  thee  the  form  (or  appearance)  of  a 
slave.  Rejoice  thou. 

5.  Thou  art  the  Second  Heaven  over  the  earth,  O 
spotless  God-Bearer.  From  thee  hath  risen  upon  us  the 
Sun  of  righteousness,  and  thou  didst  bring  Him  forth, 
according  to  the  prophecy  of  the  Prophets,  without 
seed  and  without  defilement.   Rejoice  thou. 

6.  Thou  art  that  Tabernacle  which  was  called  "  Holy 
of  Holies,"  wherein  was  the  Ark  {Tdbot)  which  was 
covered  on  all  sides  with  plates  of  gold,  and  had  therein 
the  Table  of  the  Covenant  and  the  pot  of  gold  of  the 
hidden  manna,  that  is  to  say,  the  Son  of  God.  He  came 
and  dwelt  with  Mary,  the  Virgin  without  blemish.  He 
was  incarnate  of  her,  and  she  brought  forth  in  the  world 
the  King  of  Glory.  He  came  and  delivered  us.  The 
Garden  (i.e.  Paradise)  shall  rejoice,  for  the  Lamb  that 
is  endowed  with  reason,  the  Son  of  the  Father,  Who 
dwelleth  for  ever,  hath  come  and  delivered  us  from  sin. 
Rejoice  thou. 

7.  Thou  art  called  the  Mother  of  Christ,  the  King. 
After  thou  didst  bring  Him  forth,  thou  didst  continue 
in  thy  spotless  virginity  through  a  marvellous  mystery. 

295 


WedcJdse  Mary  dm 

Thou  didst  bring  forth  Emmanuel,  and  because  of  this 
thou  didst  preserve  thyself  undefiled.   Rejoice  thou. 

8.  Thou  art  the  liadder  on  which  Jacob  saw  the  Son 
of  God,  for  thou  hast  carried  in  thy  sealed  womb  Him 
Who  could  not  be  touched.  Thou  hast  become  for  us 
an  intercessor  with  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Who  became 
incarnate  of  thee  for  our  salvation.   Rejoice  thou. 

9.  Behold,  the  Lord  came  forth  from  thee,  O  blessed 
Lady,  thou  undefiled  Bride-chamber,  to  save  the  whole 
world  which  He  had  created  in  His  abundant  compas- 
sion and  mercy.  We  glorify  Him  and  we  praise  Him, 
for  He  is  the  Beneficent  One,  the  Lover  of  men.  Re- 
joice thou. 

10.  Rejoice  thou,  O  full  of  grace.  Virgin  unblem- 
ished, Vessel  undefiled,  Glory  of  the  world.  Light  which 
shall  never  be  extinguished.  Shrine  that  shall  never  be 
overthrown.  Staff  of  the  Faith,  thou  never-failing  sup- 
port of  the  saints,  pray  thou  for  us  to  thy  Beneficent 
Son,  our  Redeemer,  that  He  may  have  mercy  upon  us, 
and  show  us  compassion,  and  forgive  us  our  sins  in  His 
mercy  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 


296 


THE  'ARGANONA  WEDDASE,  OR  ORGAN  OF 
THE  PRAISE  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY 

[Brit.  Mus.  MS.  Orient.  No.  559,  Fol.  125  ff.] 

IN  [Fol.  125a]  the  Name  of  God,  Three  without 
separation  and  One  in  consubstantial  union,  equal 
in  Godhead,  Who  at  once  are  worshipped  by  men  and 
angels,  we  begin  to  write  this  Book,  which  is  called 
"  'Arganona  Weddase,"  and  "  Harp,"  and  "  Flute," 
and  "  Psalm,"  and  "  Praise,"  whereby  men  make  sup- 
plication to  her  virginity,  and  magnify  her  with  words, 
and  pay  honour  to  her  Name,  and  praise  her  holiness, 
and  worship  the  sovereign  majesty  of  the  holy  and  pure 
and  blessed  Mary,  which  is  in  the  Hebrew  tongue 
Mariham,  the  Virgin,  the  God-bearer.  She  is  the  ship 
of  gold  that  cannot  be  moved  among  the  raging  billows 
and  waves,  and  her  raft  is  [bound  with]  the  ropes  of  the 
Trinity  which  cannot  be  separated.  And  she  is  also  the 
pillar  of  pearl  which  cannot  be  moved  by  the  might  of 
the  winds  ;  there  is  neither  falling  nor  shaking  for  him 
that  leaneth  upon  it.  Lord,  open  Thou  to  me  the  gates 
of  my  heart  so  that  the  Dove  of  the  Spirit,  the  Para- 
clete, may  enter  in,  so  that  it  may  make  me  to  under- 
stand the  power  of  the  word  which  concerneth  the 
praise  of  her  who  by  reason  of  her  simplicity  is  likened 
unto  a  dove.  Lord,  open  the  windows  of  my  ears  so  that 
they  may  hearken  unto  the  investigation  of  the  glory 
of  the  Virgin  which  resoundeth  [Fol.  125b]  from  the 
mouth  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Lord,  open  Thou  for  me  the 
dimness  of  my  eyes  so  that  I  may  see  the  mysteries  of 
the  daughter  of  light.  And  also  open  Thou  my  mouth 
for  the  praise  of  the  virginity  of  the  Mother  of  God, 

297 


Argdnona  Wedddse 

Who  opened  the  mouth  of  Ezra  for  forty  mornings  (or, 
days).  Now  he  did  not  return  until  he  had  completed 
the  copying  of  the  Words  of  the  liaw  and  the  Prophets 
which  Nebuchadnezzar  had  burnt.  And  do  Thou  help 
me  in  beginning  the  copying  of  the  Praise  of  the  Bride 
of  the  Father,  even  as  Thou  didst  help  him,  and  give 
me  power  also  to  complete  the  same.  Make  my  lips  like 
an  organ,  and  let  the  Holy  Spirit  strike  them  so  that 
like  a  tongue  they  may  utter  things  that  will  please 
those  who  hear  them.  And  make  my  mouth  like  a  harp 
and  a  lyre,  and  let  the  Spirit  strike  the  strings  so  that 
they  may  sound  melodiously  and  may  give  out  sweet- 
ness [of  sound] ;  and  let  those  who  listen  rejoice  in  what 
they  hear.  And  let  their  minds  turn  to  what  is  above, 
and  not  to  what  is  below  ;  let  them  meditate  upon 
righteousness,  and  not  sin  ;  let  them  meditate  upon 
purity,  and  not  impurity  ;  let  them  meditate  upon 
simplicity,  and  not  maliciousness  ;  let  them  meditate 
upon  lowliness,  and  not  arrogance  (or,  pride)  ;  let  them 
meditate  upon  love,  and  not  envy  ;  let  them  meditate 
upon  prudence,  and  not  folly  ;  let  them  meditate  upon 
glory,  and  not  disgrace ;  let  them  meditate  upon 
heaven,  and  not  upon  earth  ;  (FoL  126a)  let  them  medi- 
tate upon  what  is  not  said,  and  not  on  what  is  said  ; 
and  let  them  meditate  upon  the  incorruptible,  and  not 
the  corruptible.  And  let  the  mouth  of  every  one  who 
readeth  this  book  be  seasoned  with  the  salt  of  divinity, 
and  flavoured  with  wild  honey  in  the  comb  and  the 
juice  of  sugar.  And  let  every  one  who  prayeth  this 
prayer  be  blessed  with  the  blessing  of  Thy  hand  which 
toucheth  the  fire  of  life  (or,  living  fire),  and  with  the 
blessing  of  thy  mouth  [,0  Mary],  whereto  is  united  the 
sweetness  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  And  he  shall  also  be 
blessed  with  the  right  hand  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  the 
Sustainer  of  the  universe.  And  his  prayer  shall  not  be 
in  vain  like  the  prayer  of  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  who 
imagine  that  because  of  their  multiplying  words  God 

298 


The  Virgin  s  Lyre 

will  hear  them,  but  it  shall  be  like  the  word  of  the  be- 
loved son  which  he  whispereth  into  his  father's  ear. 
And  as  a  father  hearkeneth  to  the  word  of  his  son  and 
receiveth  it,  even  so  will  God  hearken  to  the  voice  of 
the  petition  of  him  that  prayeth  the  following  prayer, 
for  ever  and  ever. 

When  I  pray  unto  thee,  I  the  sinner  and  transgressor, 
do  thou,  O  Virgin  Mary  (which  is  in  the  Hebrew 
tongue  "  Mariham  "),  incline  thine  ear  to  the  voice  of 
my  petition,  and  hear  it  and  be  not  impatient  with  me, 
but  with  a  shining  heart  and  a  pure  mind  accept  the 
word  of  my  mouth.  It  is  not  gold  and  silver  which  I 
offer  unto  thee,  nor  the  brilliant  pearl,  (Fol.  126b)  but 
beautiful  praise  with  the  pure  glorification  which  can 
be  offered  unto  thee,  and  to  thy  majesty,  O  Queen.  It 
is  not  robes  of  honour  [made  of]  purple,  and  silk,  and 
cloths  decorated  and  adorned  with  divers  colours,  and 
brocade  of  silk,  but  I  lay  out  my  soul  before  thee  in  the 
place  of  glorious  apparel  decorated  with  gold,  and  to 
thee  I  declare  my  sin,  O  mother  of  the  great  High 
Priest.  I  have  found  thee  a  refuge  from  the  corruption 
which  is  on  the  earth,  and  from  the  punishment  which 
is  for  ever.  I  have  found  thee  a  refuge  from  the  lions 
of  the  north,  which  roar  mightily,  and  snatch  away 
with  violence,  and  hunt  the  young  and  show  no  mercy 
upon  the  old,  and  gape  with  their  mouths  to  swallow  up 
[their  prey].  I  have  found  thee  a  refuge  from  the  even- 
ing wolves  which  do  not  pass  the  night  [in  sleep]  till  the 
dawn,  and  they  seize  and  carry  off  and  leave  no  sheep 
untouched,  and  they  spare  neither  the  young  goat  nor 
the  lamb.  I  have  found  thee  a  refuge  from  the  face  of 
the  bow  and  from  the  mouth  (i.e.  points)  of  spears  and 
swords,  and  from  every  instrument  of  war.  I  have 
found  thee  a  refuge  from  the  hand[s]  of  all  mine  ene- 
mies, and  from  the  hand[s]  of  all  those  who  hate  my 
soul,   Who  can  strike  terror  into  him  that  putteth  his 

299 


Argmibna  Wedddse 

trust  in  thy  name  ?  And  who  can  make  afraid  him  that 
taketh  shelter  in  thy  name  ?  The  roaring  of  the  Hon  one 
may  liken  to  the  yelp  of  the  dog,  and  to  him  the 
strength  of  the  panther  is  as  the  feebleness  of  the  cat. 
(Fol.  127a)  Theonsetofhorscscannotreachhim,andthe 
flight  of  the  arrow  cannot  come  near  him.  The  mouth 
(i.e.  head)  of  the  spear  (or  javelin)  cannot  wound  him, 
and  he  can  look  upon  the  casting  of  the  stone  as  a  thing 
of  naught.  The  flooding  of  the  rivers  cannot  over- 
whelm him,  and  the  violence  of  the  winds  cannot  cast 
him  down.  The  tongue  of  man  hath  no  power  to  vilify 
him  ;  and  the  lips  of  the  man  of  oppression  cannot  do 
him  harm,  for  he  cannot  conquer  thy  Son  when  he 
argueth  the  case  with  Him. 

This  is  my  knowledge.  I  have  sought  thee,  my  helper, 
and  I  rejoice  in  thy  love  and  in  the  salvation  of  Christ, 
thy  Son.  The  extent,  width,  length  and  height  of  thy 
love  are  in  the  fortress  of  my  body,  and  it  hath  filled 
me  like  the  overflow  of  a  river,  like  the  river  Nile  in 
the  days  of  winter,  and  like  the  river  Nile  in  the  days 
of  the  flowers,  and  like  the  river  Tigris  in  the  days  of 
harvest,  and  like  the  river  Euphrates  when  the  Tigris 
wheat  is  in  the  ear,  and  like  the  river  'Efeson  at  the 
time  of  the  flowering  of  the  vines.  And  thy  love  hath 
spread  itself  out  in  me  like  the  mist  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  and  like  the  descent  of  a  cloud  in  air.  And  thou 
hast  been  my  adornment  in  my  happiness,  and  hast  be- 
come to  me  a  crown  in  my  joy.  I  marvel  at  thee  in  my 
being,  and  I  say,  "  How  great  is  the  grace  which  God 
hath  given  to  the  daughter  of  the  children  of  men  !  " 

God  hath  been  born  of  the  daughter  of  a  man  in 
three  kinds  of  births  (Fol.  127b)  which  are  not  con- 
nected. I  know  and  I  understand  that  I  cannot  com- 
prehend it.  Adam  was  born  of  the  earth  which  is  a  part 
of  his  composition,  and  there  was  in  it  nothing  that 
profited  me.  And  Eve  was  produced  from  Adam's  side, 
being  of  his  composition,  and  there  was  in  it  nothing 

300 


The  Virgin  s  Lyre 

that  profited  me.  And  Cain  was  produced  like  all  other 
men  by  carnal  union,  and  there  was  in  him  nothing  that 
profited  me  or  himself.  There  was  nothing  in  these 
three  births  that  profited  anyone.  But  Christ,  being 
born  of  a  virgin  without  carnal  union,  hath  become 
profitable  to  all ;  homage  and  worship  are  due  to  this 
birth  ;  exaltation  and  praise  are  due  to  this  birth  ; 
magnifying  and  song  are  due  to  this  birth  ;  hymning 
and  jubilation  are  due  to  this  birth.  O  how  marvellous 
and  difficult  was  it  that  He  was  made  !  O  how  marvel- 
lous and  difficult  was  His  Incarnation  !  O  how  marvel- 
lous, and  difl^icult,  and  astonishing  was  the  might  of  thy 
virginity,  O  saviour  of  Eve  !  O  the  hidden  mystery 
which  was  wrought  in  thee,  O  destroyer  of  the  curse  of 
Adam  !  O  how  exceedingly  difficult  was  it  to  make  fire 
and  water  to  be  at  peace  with  each  other  in  one  being  ! 
O  how  difficult  was  it  for  a  white  lamb  to  embrace  a 
terrifying  lion  in  its  bosom  !  O  how  difficult  was  the 
flowing  of  rational  (natural  ?)  milk  from  the  breasts  of 
a  virgin  !  O  how  difficult  was  it  for  the  soldiers  of 
heaven  to  worship  the  daughter  of  lowly  folk  in  the 
cave  !  O  how  difficult  was  it  to  make  the  fullness  of  all 
the  world  to  lie  in  a  manger  !  The  (Fol.  128a)  manger 
was  higher  than  the  height  of  the  heaven  and  more  ex- 
tended than  the  boundaries  of  heaven.  The  manger 
was  greater  than  the  chariot  which  Ezekiel  saw,  and 
greater  than  the  throne  which  Daniel  saw.  The  manger 
was  the  temple  of  the  reasonable  burnt-offering,  that  is 
to  say,  the  pure  Lamb,  the  Son  of  the  holy  woman  who 
gave  suck.  The  manger  contained  Him  Whom  heaven 
and  earth  cannot  contain.  The  manger  is  to  be  praised 
because  the  Lord  of  the  mighty  ones  lay  therein. 

And  the  hosts  of  heaven  did  homage  to  the  Virgin 

Mary,  because  of  her  was  born  the  Maker  of  the  angels, 

the  Father  of  all  the  adornment  of  the  world.  And  the 

manger  is  to  be  praised  because  He  Who  made  strong 

he  earth  upon  the  waters  rested  upon  it.    And  the 

301 


Argdnma  W^edddse 

Angel  Watchers  adored  the  Virgin,  because  He  Who 
gave  strength  to  the  Cherubim  was  borne  in  her  womb. 
The  manger  took  the  place  of  a  throne,  and  the  cave 
took  the  place  of  the  palace  of  the  heights  of  heaven. 
And  the  Virgin  took  the  place  of  the  Father,  and  He 
Who  is  truly  the  Only  Son  was  in  the  manger.  Joseph 
and  Salome  were  there,  one  on  this  side  and  the  other 
on  that  side.  And  at  the  sides  of  the  manger,  which  was 
four-square,  were  ranged  beings  on  the  earth  after  the 
manner  of  the  four  beings  in  animal  forms  which  are 
ranged  about  the  throne  that  is  placed  in  the  heavens. 
Bethlehem  may  be  compared  to  the  heavens,  but  in- 
stead of  the  sun  which  setteth  there  rose  in  it  the  Sun 
of  righteousness  which  never  setteth  and  which  shineth 
everlastingly  on  the  saints.  And  in  the  place  of  (Fol. 
128b)  the  moon  which  varieth  in  its  fullness,  and  the 
circle  of  its  light  diminisheth,  appeared  the  holy  Virgin 
Mary,  who  is  full  of  the  glory  of  her  virginity  which 
never  waneth  ;  and  in  the  place  of  the  stars  shining 
angels  appeared.  Would  that  had  been  assigned  unto 
me  to  be  with  that  company  !  I  would  praise  with  the 
angels,  I  would  marvel  with  the  midwife,  I  would  wor- 
ship with  the  shepherds,  and  I  would  offer  gifts  with 
the  Magi.  Would  that  my  lot  had  been  to  be  with  the 
lying  down  of  the  Life  of  the  dead,  and  the  Purifier 
of  sinners,  the  Hope  of  those  in  despair  and  the  De- 
liverer of  those  in  trouble  !  Would  that  my  lot  had 
been  to  kiss  the  earth  at  the  spot  where  the  foot  of  the 
daughter  of  salvation  left  the  print  thereof  as  she 
walked  upon  it !  Would  that  my  lot  had  been  for  the 
shadows  of  the  daughter  of  compassion  to  touch  me  ! 
Would  that  my  lot  had  been  to  carry  the  sandals  of  the 
daughter  of  mercy  !  Would  that  my  lot  had  been  to 
follow  the  daughter  of  light  whithersoever  she  went ! 
But  now  I  am  no  whit  inferior  to  those  who  were  with 
the  holy  and  blessed  Virgin  Mary,  for  I  have  made  my 
mind  to  feel  as  if  it  had  been  there.   I  was  not  [there] 

302 


The  Virgin  s  Lyre 

in  the  flesh,  I  was  in  the  spirit ;  I  was  not  there  in 
reality,  I  was  in  intent.  I  was  not  there  in  person,  I  was 
in  faith  (or  belief).  Blessed  am  I  being  able  to  make 
myself  [feel]  that  (Fol.  129a)  I  was  there,  even  as 
our  Lord  saith  in  the  Gospel,  "  Blessed  are  those  who 
not  having  seen  Me  believe  in  Me  "  (John  xx,  29.) 
Blessed  am  I  because  of  my  believing  and  not  because 
of  my  righteousness  and  purity.  Blessed  am  I  because 
I  have  put  my  confidence  in  God  and  pray  the  prayer 
of  His  mother. 

I  beseech  thee,  O  Virgin  Mary,  that  thy  prayer  may 
be  to  me  a  shield  of  help,  and  that  the  power  of  the 
arms  of  thy  Firstborn  may  come  down  to  deliver  me. 
Let  the  power  that  breaketh  the  mountains  come  to 
overthrow  mine  enemy.  Let  the  power  that  rolleth  up 
the  heavens  come  to  cast  down  him  that  would  oppress 
me.  Let  the  power  that  breaketh  up  the  abyss  and 
maketh  the  earth  to  quake  come  to  fight  against  my 
enemy.  Let  the  power  that  carried  away  the  herd  of 
swine  by  the  devils  of  Legion  carry  away  those  who 
would  attack  my  soul.  Let  the  power  that  scattereth 
the  mist  like  dust  come  to  scatter  those  who  would  harm 
me.  Let  those  who  bless  me  be  blessed  by  the  mouth  of 
thy  Son,  and  let  those  who  curse  me  be  cursed  by  the 
mouth  of  thy  Firstborn.  Let  their  sword  enter  their 
own  heart[s],  and  let  their  bows  be  broken  in  pieces 
(Psalm  xxxvii,  1 5).  Let  their  labour  recoil  upon  them- 
selves, and  their  violence  descend  upon  their  own  blood, 
and  [Fol.  129b]  the  toil  of  their  lips  bury  them  (Psalm 
vii,  16).  Let  coals  of  fire  fall  upon  them  to  purify  them 
upon  the  earth  with  tribulation,  so  that  they  shall  not 
be  able  to  stand  (Psalm  cxl,  9,  10).  Make  them  like 
Midian  and  Sisera,  and  like  'lyabes  (Jabin)  at  the  brook 
of  Kison,  and  let  them  perish  like  them  at  Endor,  and 
let  them  become  like  the  dust  of  the  earth.  Make  their 
envoys  like  Hereb  (Oreb)  and  Zeb  (Zeeb),  and  Zebhel 
(Zebah),  and  Selmana  (Zalmunna)  and  all  their  mes- 

303 


Arganona  Wectdase 

sengers.  Who  said,  Let  us  inherit  the  offerings  of  God. 
O  my  God,  make  them  like  a  wheel,  and  like  the  stubble 
before  the  face  of  the  wind,  and  as  a  fire  that  burneth 
up  a  field  (wood  ?),  and  a  blazing  fire  that  kindleth  the 
mountains,  even  so  drive  them  on  before  Thy  whirl- 
wind, and  shake  them  with  Thy  punishment.  Fill  their 
faces  with  shame,  and  make  them  to  know  Thy  Name, 
O  God.  Let  them  be  put  to  shame  and  be  disturbed  for 
ever  and  ever,  let  them  be  disgraced  and  perish  (Psalm 
Ixxxiii,  9  ff.).  Let  their  table  become  a  net  before  them, 
and  that  which  should  benefit  them  a  snare  that  trip- 
peth  [them]  up.  Let  their  eyes  become  darkened  and 
let  them  not  see,  and  let  their  backs  bend  in  fear  at  all 
times.  Pour  out  Thy  wrath  upon  them,  and  let  the 
stroke  of  Thine  anger  reach  them.  Let  their  citybecome 
waste,  and  let  none  dwell  in  their  houses,  and  burn  up 
their  cities  with  fire.  Add  error  to  their  error, [Fol.  1 30a] 
and  let  them  not  come  to  Thy  righteousness.  Let  them 
be  blotted  out  from  the  book  of  the  living,  and  let  them 
not  be  written  among  the  righteous  (Psalm  Ixix,  22  ff.). 
And  be  not  merciful  to  the  workers  of  iniquity.  Let 
them  return  in  the  evening,  and  let  them  hunger  like  a 
dog  and  go  round  about  the  city  (Psalm  lix,  5,6),  O  my 
God,  make  me  to  see  my  hatefulness.  Slay  them  not, 
lest  they  forget  Thy  Law.  Scatter  them,  O  Lord,  by 
Thy  power.  Cast  them  down,  O  Lord,  and  help  me. 
Let  them  be  snared  in  their  pride  and  in  their  cursing, 
and  from  their  lying  let  their  end  be  known. 


304 


Index 


Aait,  Ivi 

Aaron,  4,  14,  31,  122,  255, 

280 
Abel,  52,  255 
Abiram,  129  | 

Abraham,  6,  21,  50,   123, 

145,  193,  248,  255 
'Absa,  a  virgin,  173 
Abu  Salih  (quoted),  xli,  71 
Abydos,  Osiris  cult  at,  lii, 

Ivi 
Abyss  of  Hell,  50,000  cu- 
bits deep,  268 
Abyssinians,  xxvi,  xl 
Adam,  4,   12,  30,  40,  52, 

78,  193,  249,  254,  255, 

274,  281 
Adam,  the  Second,  282 
'Adonay,  34,  43 
Agatho,  71 
'Akaryos,  Ixv 
'Akharupas,   92,  93  (varr. 

'Akhrupas,  93,  'Akhru- 

pos,  94)^ 

'Akorobeyon,  210 

Aksum  (Axum),  xli 

Alexander  the  Great,  His- 
tory of,  vii  ff 

Alexander-Book,  xii 

Alexandria,  xlvi,  1,  Ivii,  94, 
149 


Almond  tree,  254 

Alpha  =  Christ,  239 

Alvarez,  xli,  xliv 

'Aiwa,  xli 

Am,  city  of,  liii 

Amenhetep,  x 

'Amha,  'Abba,  xliii 

Amos,  255 

'Ananyal,  44 

Ancient  of  Days,  19 

Andrew,  Apostle,  156,177, 
180 

Angels,  the  Fourteen,  286, 
289 

Angel  Watchers,  52 

Animals,  models  of,  xxix 

Animals  14  cubits  high, 
with  7  wings  and  7  legs, 
Ixvi 

Anit,  Ivi 

'Ankor  (Abgar  ?),  King  of 
Edessa,  170 

Anna,  xxvii.  See  also  Anne 
and  Hanna 

Annunciation,  xxxii,  102  ff 

Anubis,  lii,  Ivii 

Apis  Bull,  Ivii 

Apollo,  203,  229 

Apostles,  the  Twelve  or- 
dered to  go  to  Bethle- 
hem, 156,  177 

305 


hidt 


ex 


Apiileius,  Iviii 
Arabia,  Ixv,  Ixvii 
Arabs  attack  Christians, xlii 
'Aragawi  Manf asawi,  Ixix 
Archangels,  the  Ten,  44; 

the  120,000,  193 
Archelaus,  141 
'Arganona  Dengel,  xlvi 
'Arganona  Weddase,  Ixviii, 

Ixix;  translation,  297  ff 
Argos,  Ivii 
Arphaxad,  255 
Artemis,  229 
Asar-Hep,  Ivii 
Ascension,  the,  152  ff 
Ashmun,  71 
Ashmunen,  70,  95 
Asrabis  (Sarapis),  203 
Ass  at  Bethlehem,  53 
'Astar'eyo,  Ixiii 
Athanasius,  xxviii,  Ixix 
Athenians,  lix 
'Atronsa  Maryam,  xiii 
Augustine,  xlii 
Aves,  or  Hail  Marys,  xxxiii 

Baal,  203 

Babylon  of  Egypt,  235 
Ba'eda  Maryam,  xliii 
Barachiah,  255 
Barboy,  Ixvii 
Bardona,  87 
Bar  Hebraeus,  xli 
Barka,  21 

Bartas,  desert  of,  202  ff 
Bartholomew,  St.,  xxxviii, 
155,  180 

306 


Basil  of  Caesarea,  Ixiii,  Ixix 

Basilides,  ii,  xlv 

Basta,  85 

Beasts  worship  Christ,  70 

Beersheba,  52 

Bellone,  lix 

Benjamin,  43 

Bet  Barbaysadas,  Ixv 

Bethlehem,  xxxii,  49,  (i6^ 

jj,   84,   135,   136,   154, 

256,  282,  291 ;  slaughter 

of  children  at,  6j,  68 
Bet  Te'eman,  Ixvi 
Birch,  Dr.,  x 
Birds,  models  of,  made  by 

Christ,  xxix 
Blemmyes,  Iv 
Boaz,  51 

Bones,  the  dry,  14 
Book  of  Adam  and  Eve,  40 
Book  of  James  the  Less, 

xxvii 
Book  of  the  Dead,  1 
Book  of  the  Generations 

of  Mary,  5,  149,  150  _^_ 
Book  of  the  Infancy,  xxviii 
Book  of  the  Praise  of  Mary, 

xlii 
Book  of  the  Resurrection, 

xxxix 
Book  of  Theotokia,  Ixix 
Boxes  made  by  Christ,  xxix 
Brancaleone,  N.,  xiii,  xliii, 

xliv 
Bread  given  to  wise  men, 

139 
Bula,  'Abba,  100 


Index 


Bull  of  Amentt,  Ivii 
Byzantium,  xlvi 

Caesar,  i6o 

Cainan,  6,  255 

Cairo,  xlvii,  205 

Caleb,  188 

Camels  turned  to  stone,  71 

Candlestick  =  Mary,  52 

Cannibals,  Ixv 

Caravans,  xl 

Carthage,  Iviii 

Cassia,  23 

Celestinus,  xlv 

Ceres,  lix 

Cherubim,  the,  4,  35,  44, 
193,  280 

Chios,  Ivii 

Christianity  in  the  Sudan, 
xli 

Chrysostom,  xxviii 

Churches,  the  400  of 
'Aiwa,  xli 

Church  of  the  Saviour  of 
the  World,  Ixi 

Cinnamon,  i ;  oil,  23 

City  of  God,  265 

Claudius,  II 

Constantine,  xli 

Constantinople,  xlvii 

Copts,  the,  XXV,  xlii 

Corinth,  Ivii 

Council  of  Ephesus,  xli 

Covenant  of  Mary  :  Ver- 
sion I,  54;  Version  II, 

Cretans,  lix 


Crete,  Ivii 

Cross  of  Christ,  168 ;  wood 

of,  xliii 
Crosses      of      the      Two 

Thieves,  168 
Crown  of  Thorns,  168 
Crucifixes,  xli 
Crusades,  xlvi 
Curtains  for  sanctuary,  129 
Cyprians,  lix 
Cyprus,  Ivii 

Cyriacus  of  Behnesa,  Ixiii 
Cyril  of  Alexandria,  xxvi, 

xxvii,  XXX,  xl;  Homily 

on  Mary,  xxxii,  xxxvi 


Dabra  Kueskuam,  95,  98, 

99 

Daludar,  89,  94 

Dan,  23,  52 
Daniel,  285,  301 
Date-palm     in     Paradise, 

xxviii 
Dathan,  129 
David,  6,  51,  52,  145,  167, 

193,  245,  246,  257,  264, 

291 
David    II    of    Abyssinia, 

xliii 
David  of  Sinai,  146 
Dayanus,  95 
Dayek,  14 

Death  and  his  six  sons,  Ix 
Death-god,  Ivii 
Decius,  x] 
Deles,  Ivii 

307 


Index 


Demetrius  of  Antioch,xxx, 
xxxi;  homily  on  Mary, 
xxxii 

Denderah,  Ivi 

Dexius,  Bishop,  59 

Deyanos,  99 

Diana,  lix 

Dibri,  23 

Diocletian,  xl 

Dioscoros,  100 

Dis,  Ivii 

Domitianus,  Ixiii,  207 

Dongola,  Old,  xli 

Drugulin,  W.,  xii 

Dumachus,  xxix 

Durdis,  Ixvii 


Edessa,  170 

Edna,  21 

Edom,  202 

'Efeson  (Pison),  300 

'Efrata,  291 

Egypt,  xli,  6j,  149,  205, 

235  ;  the  Holy  Family  in 

3J  years,  68 
Egyptians,  lix 
Eight  Maidens,  the,  129 
Eldad, 255 
Eleusinians,  lix 
Eli,  5,  273 
Eliab,  49 
Elias,  145,  253 
Elias  of  Sinai,  146 
Elijah,  28,  189,  190,  193, 

198,  205,  228 
Elisabeth,  xxxii,  5,  35,  yy, 

308 


81,  84,  167;  flees  to  the 

mountains,  139  ff 
Elisha,  190 
Elkanah,  36 
Emmanuel,    i,    282,    291, 

296 
Endor,  303 

Enoch,  6,  52,  193,  253 
Enos,  6 
Ephesus,    149,    150,    154, 

157,    174;    Church    of, 

^47. 
Ephraim  Syrus,  Ixix 

Ephratah,  49,  66 

Epiphaniusof  Cyprus,  xxii, 

xxviii,  xxxix 
Epirus,  Ivii 
'Esmanen,  88 
Esna,  xxxiii 
Ethiopia,  xli;  Church  of, 

xlii 
Ethiopians,  lix 
Eudocia  Aelia,  xlii 
Euphrates,  2,  170,  198,  300 
Eusebius,  xxviii 
Eve,  30,  195,  249,  254,  256 
Ezekiel,  301 
Ezra,  255 
Ezra  Sutu'el,  12 

Fastarum,  85 

Faustina,  13 

Felodyos,  166 

Fig  tree,  251 

Fire  =  Christ,  116 

Fire  w^orship,  origin  of ,  1 39 

Flame  =  Emmanuel,  i  ff 


Index 


Flood,  the,  198 
Frumentius,  xl 
Funkus  (?),  72 

Gabra  Krestos,  viii 
Gabra  Krestos,  scribe,  48 
Gabra  Maryam,  7,  47,  48, 

53. 

Gabriel,  xxv,  xxx,  xxxii, 
Ixvi,  32,  39,  44,  53,  62, 
64,  81,84,99,  i02ff,  153, 
169,  178,  184,  199,  284 

Gadla  Hawaryat,  xlv 

Galbanum,  23 

Galileans,  83 

Gallas,  xlv 

Garden  of  Delight,  248 

Gate  of  Jerusalem  =  Mary, 

Gedaberya,  Ixv 

Gedras,  Ixvii 

Gelasius,  xxix 

George,  'Abba,  xliii,  xlvi 

Gethsemane,  165 

Gideon,  255 

Gigar,  Ixiii,  208  ff 

Gihon,  2 

Gleichen,  Count,  xii 

Gnostic  language,  xxxvii, 

Ixvi,  226 
Gnostics,  xxviii 
Gold,    138;  pillar    of,  in 

Paradise,  253 
Golenischeff,  Dr.  W.,  liii 
Golgotha,  Ix,  56,  167,  169, 

245  ;   Church   of,   xliii ; 

Mary  praying  at,  153 


Gospel   of    the   Birth    of 

Mary,  xxvii 
Gospel    of    the    Infancy, 

xxix 
Gospels,  the  Apocryphal, 

xxvii 
Great  Balance,  li 
Great  Fast,  274 
Great  God,  li 
Great  Judgement,  li 
Griggs,  W.,  xii 

Hades,  Ivii 
Haggai,  255 
Haman,  29 
Hamenyu,  209 
Hamulmala  Wark,  xlvii 
Hand  of  Fire,  xxxix 
Hand,  the  magic,  90 
Hanna,  vii,  5  ;  History  of, 

I  ff ;  virginity  of,  xxvii 
Hanna,  the  prophetess, 255 
Hanna,  virgin,  173 
Hanna,  wife  of   Elkanah, 

'36 

Harpocrates,  Ivii 

Harrar,  xiv 

Harrington,  Sir  J.  L.,  xiv 

Haykal,  21 

Hayla  Shelasa,  278 

Hebron,  50 

Hecate,  lix 

Heliopolis,  xxviii,  Ivi 

Henos,  16,  52 

Hermes,  71 

Hermon,  i 

Hermopolis,  xxviii,  Ivi,  71 

309 


Index 


Herod,  65,  66,  6"],  68,  70, 
77,  81,  84,  137;  death 
of,  141 ;  thrown  from 
his  horse,  203  ;  his  search 
for  Christ,  202  ff ;  mas- 
sacres 120,023  children, 
207;  or  1,440,000  chil- 
dren, 256 

Heshbon,  50,  51,  235 

Hoglah,  35 

Holophernes,  29 

Holy  Family  in  Egypt,xxix 

Holy  of  Holies,  5 

Horses  of  brass,  95 

Horus,  son  of  Isis,  1;  birth 
of,  liii 

House  of  the  Sanctuary 
(i.e.  Jesus),  151 

Idols,  the,  365  ;  fall  down 
before  Christ,  xxviii 

Ifoson,  198 

Incense,  138 

Incest,  269 

India,  156,  166,  177 

Ingram,  Mr.  W.,  ix  ff 

Isaac,  6,  50,  145,  248,  255 

Isaiah,  41,  255,  281 

Iscariot,  23 

Isis  =  Life,  liv,  Iv 

Isis  of  Philae,  Iv 

Isis  raises  the  dead,  liii 

Isis,  blood  of,  liv 

Isis,  Cult  of,  1  if 

Isis,  tear  of  the  Inunda- 
tion, Ivi 

Isis  the  Queen,  lix 

310 


Isis,  Tables  of,  Iv,  Ivi 

Isis  Sothis,  Ivi 

Isis  and  Horus,  xli ;  cult  of, 

lix 
lyakem,  122,  124  ff 
lyaken,  122 

Jabin,  303 

Jacob,  6,  51,  145,  248,  255 

Jacob's  Ladder,  189 

jacobo  di  Voragine,  xlvi 

Jahannam,  250,  276;  the 
inhabitants  thereof  de- 
scribed, 250  ff 

James,  St.,  158 

James,  Bishop  of  Jerusa- 
lem, 147,  156 

James,  brother  of  Eli,  5 

James  the  Less,  xxvii 

James,  son  of  Nathan,  6 

Jared,  6,  255 

Jeremiah,  255 

Jerome,  St.,  xxviii 

Jerusalem,  xlvi,  53,  73,  77, 
8 1 , 1 37, 208 ;  first  bishop 
of,  xxvii;  the  Heavenly 
described,  264 

Jesse,  49 

Jews,  70 ;  persecute  Mary, 
160,  168,  169;  try  to 
burn  her,  161 

Joachim,  vii,  122;  history 
of,  iff 

Joakim,  xxx 

jochebed,  22 

Joel,  255  _ 

John  of  Sinai,  146 


Index 


John  of  Syria,  xli 

John,  St.,  XXX,  148,  154, 

157,  174,  276,  277;  his 

History  of  Mary,  1 5  2  fi ; 

his  Vision  of  Mary,  245  ff 
John  the  Baptist,  5,  35,255 
John  the  Less,   147,   148, 

200 
John,  the  priest,  134 
John,     Metropolitan     of 

Ethiopia,  Ixiii 
Jonah,  255 
Jonathan,  249 
Jordan,  142 
Joseph,  the  carpenter,  xxv, 

xxxii,  5,  75,  81,  88,  94, 

99,  235;  prayer  of,  133; 

rod  of,  128 
Joseph  of  Arimathea,  58 
Joseph,  the  shepherd,  86 
Joshua,  43,  255 
Judaea,  147 
Judah,  6,  160,  208 
Judith,  29 
Juno,  Hx 

Kakiros,  Ixv 
Kakra,  Ixvii 
Karas,  209 

Kareya,    Bishop   of   Jeru- 
salem, 146 
Kedros,  Ixvii 
Kesra,  6 
Kesraha,  5 
Ketura,  35 
Khartum,  xli 
Khemen,  71 


Khenti-Amentt,  Ivi 
Kiraz,  208 
Kison,  303 
Kohol,  Ixvii 
Kona,  Mount,  Ixvii 
Korah,  129 
Kuesya,  73,  75 
Kueta,  208 

Ladder  of  Jacob,  189 

Lady  Meux  MSB.,  vii  ff 

Lalibala,  xliii 

Lamech,  6 

Lasta,  xliii 

Latopolis,  xxxiii 

Law,  the,  in  Egypt,  1 

Leah,  35 

Lebanon,   Ixvii,   49,    280; 

flight  of  Mary  to,  202  ff 
Lebanus,  i 
Lectionary    of    Miracles, 

xlviii 
Legendea  Aurea,  xlvi 
Lesbos,  Ivii 
Levi,  5,  6,  35 
Light,   the  =  Christ,    116; 

cloud  of,  xxviii 
Lions  w^orship  Jesus,  xxviii 
Loftie,  Rev.  W.  J.,  xi 
Lucius,  Iviii 
Ludolf,  vii,  xlvii 
Luke,  St.,  156,  177,  258; 

his  picture  of  Mary,  xlii 

Maba'a  Seyon,  vii  ff 
Macoreo,  xliv 
Madaura,  Iviii 


Index 


Madonna  and  Child,  xlii 
Magians,  65,  66,  6j 
Magical      (or       Gnostic) 

words,  Ixvii 
Mahalah,  35 
Mahalaleel,  6,  255 
Makdala      Collection      of 

MSS.,  vii,  Ixi 
Maksimarra,  Ixvii 
Malan,  Rev.  S.  C,  40 
Maliko,  137 
Man-god  (Osiris),  1 
Manoah,  36 
Mansions  of  Heaven,  the 

Twelve,  198 
Marara,  51 
Marcoreos,  xliv 
Mark,  St.,  1,  100,  156,  157, 

253^ 
Marmuda,  2 

Marseilles,  Iviii 

Martyrs,  the,  262 

Martyrs,  Era  of  (a.d.  254), 
xxxiii 

Mary,  as  intercessor,  xxix 

Mary,  her  bier  removed 
by  angels,  185-187 

Mary,  Conception  and 
Birth  of,  122  if 

Mary,  cult  of  in  Ethiopia, 
xli 

Mary,  daughter  of  Mat- 
that,  5 

Mary,  deified  in  Abys- 
sinia, xlviii 

Mary,  departure  of,  from 
this  world,  I45^ff 

312 


Mary,  descent  of,  xxviii 
Mary,  description  of  her 
person    and    character, 
xxii,  xxiii 
Mary,  dress  of,  xxxi 
Mary,  Ethiopic  Literature 

of,  Lxi  ff 
Mary,  Five  Sorrows  of,  58 
Mary,  flight  of,  to  Leba- 
non, 202  if 
Mary,   Forty-two   Saluta- 
tions of,  236  if 
Mary,     History     of     her 
Death    by    St.    John, 
152  if ;  the  discovery  of, 

143  ff  . 

Mary,  humanity  of,  xxvi 

Mary,  Hymn  of,  114 
Mary,  journey  of  in  Ethi- 
opia, Ixiv  if 
Mary,    Miracles    of    col- 
lected, viii 
Mary,  Miracles  of,  at  Beth- 
lehem, xxix,  159,  183 
Mary,  perpetual  virginity 

of,  xxvi,  xlviii 
Mary,  pictures  of,  xli 
Mary,  her  picture  in  the 

Holy  of  Holies,  5 
Mary,  prayers  of,  for  the 

dead,  Ixix 
Mary,  portraits  of,  xlii 
Mary,  soul  of,  received  by 

Christ,  164 
Mary,  32  Festivals  of,  xlvii 
Mary,   Titles   of,   xxxiii- 
xxxvi 


I?idi 


ex 


Mary  visits  Elisabeth,  131 
Mary     visits     Jahannam, 

200  ff,  245  ff 
Mary  visits  Paradise,  197  ff 
Mary  the  White  Pearl,  4 
Maryam.     See  Mary 
Matat,  31,  35 
Mattatha,  5 
Mattatthias,  6 
Matthev^,   St.,    158,    177, 

254 
Mazmura  Dengel,  Ixix 
Mazmura  Krestos,  Ixix 
Megara,  Ivii 
Melchaiah,  255 
Melka,  35 

Memphis,  xxix,  Ivi,  70 
Menhit,  Ivi 
Menkhit,  Ivi 
Men-t,  73 
Menyelek  II,  xii 
Merasa,  14 
Mercurius,  St.,  xxxiii 
Mercurius,  xxxiii 
Mercy  Seat,  4 
Mesaris,  Ixvii 
Meser,  205 
Methuselah,  6 
Metternich  Stele,  liii 
Meux,  Sir  H.,  viii 
Micah,  ()() 

Michael,  St.,  Ixvi,  44,  62, 
90,  178,  184,  199,  248, 

Midian,  303 
Milcah,  55 
Minerva,  lix 


Minyah,  Churches  of,  74 
Miracle  Play  of  Osiris,  lii 
Miracles  of  Hanna,  7 
Misr  (Cairo),  235 
Monasteries,  Abyssinian, 

xliii 
Mone,  73 
Monophysites,  xli 
Moses,  4,  23,  43,  145,  190, 
193,  255  ;  and  the  bram- 
ble bush,  146 
Mother  of  God,  xxvi 
Mother-of-pearl  crown,  40 
Muhammadans    in    Hell, 

274 
Munyatu  bu  Kais,  73 

Murray,  Mr.  Douglas,  xi 

Musis,  99 

Mustafa  Agha,  x 

Myrrh,  138 

Naftalem,  205 

Nahum,  255 

Nails  of  the  Cross,  168 

Naomi,  51 

Naphtalem,  208,  209 

Naphthah,  235 

Nathan,  5 

Nativity,  the,  130-137 

Nazareth,  xxv ;  well  at,  1 30 

Nebertcher,  Ivi 

Nebseni,  ix 

Nekht,  liv 

Nephthys,  li,  Ivii 

Nes  Amsu  (Menu),  ix 

Nestorius,  xli 

Nicephorus  Callistiis,  xxii 

313 


Index 


Nicodemus,  58 
Nile,  2,  79,  198,  300 
Nile  Flood,  Ivi 
Noah,  6,  21,  35,  53,  193 
Noba,  Ixv 
Nuba,  xli 
Nubia,  xli,  Iv 
Nut  tree,  254 

Oreb,  303 

Olive  staff  planted,  75 

Osiris,  2 

Osiris  cult  at  Abydos,  Hi 

Osiris  =  Death,  Ivii 

Osiris-Pluto,  Ivii 

Ox  in  Bethlehem,  53 

Pachomius,  100 

Palamon,  'Abba,  100 

Pantos,  72 

Panub,  liv 

Paphos,  lix 

Papyrus  Swamps,  lii 

Paradise,  78,  98,  150,  195 ; 
described,  246  ff 

Paul,  St.,  148,  156,  177, 
247;  the  Tongue  of 
Unguent,  262,  264;  dis- 
ciples of,  191 

Paule,  'Abba,  100 

Persia,  Ixv,  205 

Persia,  Upper,  208 

Per-sui,  lii 

Pessinus,  lix 

Peter,  St.,  148,  156,  157, 
164,  192;  the  Rock,  262 

Pharaoh,  xxix,  190 

3H 


Philae,  Iv 
Philip,  St.,  180 
Philip,  the  Evangelist,  xl 
Phrygia,  156 
Phrygians,  lix 
Pilate,  58 
Pillars  of  fire,  273 
Pison,  2 

Place  of  Life,  21 
Pluto,  Ivii 
Pola,  273 
Postel,  G,,  xxvii 
Powers  (Angels),  199 
Prayers  of  Mary  at  Gol- 
gotha and  Bartos,  Ixiii 
Proserpine,  lix 
Protevangelion,  xxvii 
Psammetichus  I,  liv 
Ptah,  Ivii 
Ptolemy  I,  Ivii 
Pulcheria,  xlii 

Quaritch,  Mr.  B.,  vii 
Queen  of  Heaven,  Iviii 

Ra,  liii ;  secret  name  of,  liii 

Rachel,  35,  255^ 

Rampolla,  Cardinal,  xiv 

Ramuel,  44 

Raphael,  44 

Ras  Makonnen,  xiv 

Rebekah,  21,32,  35,255 

Rebka,  35 

Renpit,  Ivi 

Reu, 255 

Reuben,  36,  43,  122,  123 

Rhamnusian,  lix 


Index 


Rhodes,  Ivii 

River  of  Fire,  269 

River  of  Honey,  257 

River  of  Milk,  258 

River  of  Oil,  261 

River  of  Wine,  255 

Robel,  122,  123 

Rod  of  Aaron,  52 

Rods  in  the  Sanctuary,  1 28 

Rof  an,  Ixvii 

Roha,  170 

Rome,  xliii,  156,  157 

Rome,  149,  177 

Romeya,  190,  191 

Romiya,  190 

Romya,  157 

Rufael,  Ixvi 

Rum,  xlvi 

Ruth,  51 

Sabbath  observed  in  Hell, 

275 
Sadakyal,  44 

Saga,^i74 

Sakuel,  44 

Salapad,  35 

Salathiel,  44 

Salome,  5,  35,  64,  67,  68, 
75,  79,  84,  94,  99,335; 
doubts  Mary's  virginity 
and  is  punished,  135 

Salutations  to  Hanna,  8 

Salutations  to  Mary,  xxxii 

Salutations  to  the  Cove- 
nant of  Mercy,  60 

Samos,  Ivii 

Samson,  36,  255 


Samuel,  49,  50 

Samuel,  a  priest,  129,  135 

Sara,  35,  124 

Sarah,  21,  38 

Sarapis,  Ivii,  203 

Satan,  Ix,  55,  d"],  68,  89, 

250 
Scarlet  wool,  129,  130 
Schoolmaster    of    Christ, 

xxix 
Scorpion  goddesses,  Ix 
Sebestan  Tree,  71 
Semadar,  Ixvi 
Septit,  Ivi 
Serapeum,  Ivii 
Seraphim,  35,  44,  193,  280 
Serapis,  229 
Serpent,  360  cubits  long, 

Ixvii;  another  70  cubits 

long,  Ixvii 
Seshetait,  Ivi 
Set,  Hi 
Set    as   scorpion,   liii;   he 

persecutes  Isis,  Hi 
Set,  the  Arch  Liar,  li 
Seth,  6,  52,  193,  255 
Seven  Archangels,  the,  39 
Seven  ^Eons,  xxviii 
Seven  Heavens,  xxviii 
Seven  Scorpions  of  Isis,  Hi 
Seven  Seals  of  Jahannam, 

276 
Shelomith,  23 
Shem, 193 
Shenuti,  Ixix 
Shimei,  240 
Ship  of  gold,  261 


hidi 


ex 


Shmoun,  71 

Sicilians,  lix 

Sika,  Ixvii 

Silko,  xli 

Simeon,  6'],  81,  141 

Simon  Peter,  197 

Simon  Zelotes,  177,  180 

Sinai,   Mount,    146,    148, 

149,  196,  284 
Sinai,  the  300  Monasteries 

of,  146 
Sinope,  Ivii 
Sisera,  303 
Soba,  Ixv 

Solomon,  4,  6,  52,  90 
Solyana,  3 
Sophia,  5,  35 
Sothis,  Ivi 

Spear  of  Longinus,  168 
Spirit-bodies,  Ivi 
Spirit  of  Life,  19 
Star  of  Ethiopia,  xiv 
Star  of  the  Nativity,  137 
Statue,  the  bowing,  74 
Stead,  Mr.  W.  T.,  xi 
Sudan,  xli,  Ixvi 
Sulame,  135 
Surafil,  198 
Susenyos,  xlvii 
Sut'el,  12 
Syria,  Ixvi 

Tabernacle  of  Testimony, 

Tables  of  the  Law  =  Mary, 

52  ;  the  Two,  4 
Tafonya,  the  Jew,  191,192 

316 


Talek,  14 
Taludar,  89 
Tamar,  51,  89 
Tanisuram,  137 
Taprobane,  53 
Tarewa,  86,  87 
Taronya,  the  Jew,  165 
Tarsus,  177 
Tartarus,  91 
Tasrin,  31 
Teb,  liii 
Tefen,  liii,  72 
Telmeyakos,  250 
Temleyakos,  250 
Temples     fall     down. 

70 
Terah,  255 
Tereyos,  177 
Tet  amulet,  liv 
Theodore,  King,  Ixi 
Theodosius,  xlii,  Iv 
Theophilus,  King,  xlvii 
Theophilus,   Patriarch  of 

Alexandria,  xxx,  61   ff, 

81  ff 
Theotokia,  xlii 
Thessaly,  Ivii 
Thieves,  the  Two,  69,  75, 

97 
Thomas,    St.,    156,    165. 

166,  177 
Thoth,  1,  li,  liii,  70 
Three    Virgins,    the,    of 

Bethlehem,  172 
Thummim,  xxvii 
Tiberius,  170,  188 
Tigris,  2,  198,  300 


htdt 


ex 


Timothy,     Patriarch     of 

Alexandria,  xxx 
Tirzah,  35 

Tischendorf,  xxvii,  xxix 
Tomnahe,  208 
Tona,  234 
Torine,  xxxii 
Tree,  Great,  of  Paradise, 

259 
Tree  of  Life,  98 
Tree  worships  Christ,  71 
Trumpp,  Dr.,  41 

Uriel,  Ixvi,  44,  212 
Urim      and     Thummim, 
xxvii 

Userit,  Ivi 

Valerian,  xl 
Venus,  lix 
Victor,  xxxiii 
Virgin's  Lyre,  xlvi 
Virgin's  Organ,  xlvi 
Virgin's  Psalter,  Ixix 
Vision  of  Mary,  Ixiii 

Water  of  correction,  134 
Weddase  'Amlak,  Ixix 
Weddase     Maryam,     xlii, 
xlv,  xlvi,  Ixviii,  Ixix 


Weddase  Maryam,  trans- 
lation of,  279  if 
Wedem  Asgari,  xliii 
Well  at  Heliopolis,  69 
White  Bird,  the,  6,  19 
White  Pearl  =  Mary,  4,  6; 

history  of,  17  if 
Wingate,  Sir  F.  R.,  xii 
Wise  Men,  the  Three,  137 
Words,  the  Ten,  4 

Yabus,  87 
Yared,  21 
Yophoni,  10 

Zablon,  205 

Zacharias,  xxvii,  81,  127, 
128 ;  slain  by  Herod,  140 
Zagiie,  the  Eleven,  xlii 
Zalmunna,  303 
Zara  Ya'kob,  xiii,  xliii,  xliv 
Zebah,  303 
Zebulon,  235 
Zechariah,  5,  255 
Zeeb,  303 
Zelophehad,  35 
Zephaniah,  255 
Zesesba,  137 
Zion,  5 1 


317 


PASSAGES   OF  SCRIPTURE   QUOTED  OR 
REFERRED  TO 


Genesis,  xxv,  1,  35;  xxv,  23,  32; 

xxxviii,  6,  51. 
Exodus  it,  12,  238;  XV,  26,  28; 

xix,  IQjf.,  284;  xxvii,  9,  10,  13; 

xxviii,  15-21,  24;  xxx,  34,  24; 

xxxiit,  20,  13. 
Leviticus  xvi,  2,  1 3 ;  xxiv,  10-23, 

23- 

Numbers  xii,  13,  22;  awc/,  33, 

23- 

Deuteronomy  .YC'/n,  i5,  23;  xxxii, 

7,2. 

Ruthz,  2<?,  51. 

1  Samuel  ti,  5,  24;  ^vz//,  49. 

2  Samuel  ^n,  i2,  291 ;  xxiii,  13- 
17,  292. 

I  Kings  a,  46,  240. 

I  Chronicles  xi,  18,  19,  292. 

Esther  vii,  10,  29. 

Psalm  i,  5,  250;  vii,  16,  303;  jvi^n, 
i4,  3;  ;*•?>,  S,  9,  249;  xxii,  26, 
259;  A'xz/,  9,  259;  xxxii,  2,  39; 
.r;c;e2V,  18,  39;  ^v^^rjvt^n,  ii,  259; 
xxxvii,  15,  303;  ;f;i[rA:t'»',  5(?, 
246;  xxxvii,  38,  250;  ;f.r;v&zn', 
12,  246;  ;fAr,rz.*',  4,  247;  xli,  1,  2, 
257;  .r/i/,  9,  Si;xlv,  10,  11,  55; 
xlv,  16,  3;  Ar/z^n',  i,  248;  xlix, 
8,  9,  249;  lix,  5,  6,  304;  /jvz>, 
22  ff.,  304;  /;c^;*rn,  3,  4,  257; 
Ixxxiii,  9  ff.,  304;  Ixxxiv,  2, 
247 ;  Ixxxvii,  J2,  5 1 ;  /;ic;c;f  z;i;,  47, 
253;  ;vfw,  4,  246;  ci,  5,  259; 
fn,  24,  247;  fm,  i5,  i6,  246; 
cxiii,  9,  250;  c:vz'?,  7,  249; 
fA'fi,  i5,  248;  cxviii,  22,  30; 
f;f;cn',    i-<3,    247;   cxxviii,   43, 


261 ;  cxxxii,  11,  291 ;  f.r/,  9,  10, 
303;   f.v//c,   4,  246;    cxiv,  21, 

Ecclesiastes  ii,  14,  272;  c/«,  i,  16. 
Song  of  Solomon  ii,  13,  14,  51; 

iv,  2,  238;  vii,  2,  241. 
Isaiah  i,  3,  53;  xi,  2,  28;  xlii,  1, 

28;  /.wi,i,  5,  13. 
Ezekiel  xxiii,  4,  237;  A'.r;fyn,  1- 

10,  16;  ;f/m,  4,  xliv,  1,  2,  288. 
Micah  V,  2,  66,  291, 
Habakkuk  Hi,  2,  53. 
Judith  viiiff.,  29. 
St.  Matthew  z,  i9,  2<?,  xxv;  /,  20, 

24,  290;  V,  5,  259;  t/,  6,  10, 

262;  t',  7,  257;  V,  8,  255,  261; 

c,  10,  257;  I/,  ir,  275;  V,  19, 

262;  c/,  22,  259;  V,  28,  258;  en, 
13,  14,  264;  J'H,  2i-23,  263; 
X,  16,  2S9;  X,  41,  42,  33;x,44, 
46;  xi,  29,  31;  xz'»,  20,  16; 
;fiA:,  5,  6,  261 ;  ;c;c,  i6,  264. 

St.  Luke  i,  27-35,  xxv;  /,  43,  63; 
i,  46-55,  28;  ii,  14,  287;  .V,  47, 
239;  xii,  10,  259;  jfiV,  11,  259; 
Ai'm,  i4,  259;  xxi,  17,  19,  262. 

St.  Mark  viii,  36,  37,  253;  ix,  41, 
46. 

St.  John  XX,  29,  303. 

Acts  .rzV,  22,  22. 

Romans  a;?^?,  72,  273. 

1  Corinthians  vi,  9,  10,  264;  vii, 
9,  29,  261 ;  vii,  29,  31,  247. 

2  Corinthians  e/,  i,  266. 
Galatians  iv,  4,  xxv;  vi,  14,  266. 
Timothy  vi,  9,  271. 

Hebrews  xii,  22,  266;  xiii,  8,  288. 


S?^'^^     ^'ICULATION  DEPARTMENT 

TO— ^      202  Main  Library 
LOAN  PERIOD  1    " 

HOME  USE 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

l-m?nth  loan?-  may  be  'snewed  by  Ca''-''^  5'i<--'v405 

1-year  loans  rnay  iye  recfiarged  by  brinoinci  i^s  books  io  the  Circulation  Desk 

Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  rr.ade  4  days  prior  to  due  date 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


FORM  NO    nn^    AH        wol^^'^^'^^  °^  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
l-OKM  NO.  DD6,  60m,  1/83  BERKELEY,  CA  94720 

LD21A-60m-3,"ag<'\'i    '  .,     vjcuciai  i,iyx«ij,  ®s 

(N5382sl0)476^flS&*  University  of  California 

^*  Berkeley 


GENERAL  LIBRARY  -  U.C.  BERKELEY 


BDDQ717Q3M 


