Inatnn  Mntu^raitg 

Qlnlbg^  nf  Sth^ral  Arts 

SItbrarg 


■^^■t 


The  Legend  of  Longinus  in  Ecclesi- 
astical Tradition  and  in  English 
Literature,  and  its  connec- 
tion with  the  Grail 


H  Bissertation 


PRESENTED   TO   THE   FACULTY   OF   BRYN   MAWB  COLLEGE  IN   PARTIAL 

FULFILMENT  OF    THE   REQUIREilENTS   FOR   THE   DEGREE 

OF   DOCTOR   OF   PHILOSOPHY 

OCTOBER.    1910 


ROSE  JEFFRIES   PEEBLES   \K70- 


Colier^e  of  L 


BALTIMORE 

J.    H.    FURST    COMPANY 

1911 


Gtqi-1 


"5  7  6^7 


-J  1 ' 


0  1^2 


PREFACE 


The  present  study  was  presented  to  the  Faculty  of  Bryn 
Mawr  College  in  October,  1910,  in  fulfilment  of  a  require- 
ment made  of  candidates  for  tJie  degree  of  Doctor  of  Phi- 
losophy. The  object  of  the  dissertation  is,  in  the  main,  to 
investigate  anew  the  origin  of  the  legend  of  Longinus  in 
ecclesiastical  and  popular  tradition,  and  to  trace  its  use 
in  mediaeval  English  literature,  as  has  already  been  done 
in  the  field  of  French  literature  by  Carl  Kroner. 

In  following  the  course  of  the  Longinus  legend  I  have 
thought  best  not  to  confine  attention  solely  to  literary  docu- 
ments, but  to  include  also  some  account  of  the  part  which 
it  played  in  art  and  in  the  liturgy,  for  the  reason  that  its 
importance  in  both  these  connections  undoubtedly  contrib- 
uted to  its  development  in  literature,  and  perhaps  even 
determined  to  some  extent  its  literary  form. 

Moreover,  though  the  present  study  has  been  under- 
taken primarily  from  the  standpoint  of  English  literature, 
I  have  ventured  to  discuss,  in  the  last  two  chapters,  special 
problems  relating  to  the  literary  influence  of  Longinus 
which  lie  wholly  outside  of  that  field.  The  first  of  these 
is  the  resemblance,  first  pointed  out  by  Bugge,  between 
the  Longinus  story  and  the  slaying  of  Baldr.  The  sec- 
ond is  the  relationship  which  exists  between  the  lance 
of  the  Crucifixion  and  the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail 
romances.  These  two  chapters,  though  distinctly  in  the 
nature  of  excursus,  deal,  after  all,  with  phases  of  the 
Longinus  legend  which  are  of  general  literary  importance. 
They  appear,  therefore,  to  have  legitimate  place  in  a  study 

iii 


IV  PEEFACE 

wliicli  treats  of  llic  significance  of  the  Longinus  theme  in 
the  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

I  wish  to  exjwess  my  hearty  thanks  to  Miss  Dorothy 
Kempe  for  helpful  suggestions;  to  Mr.  Stephen  Gaselee, 
Pepysian  Librarian  of  Magdalene  College,  Cambridge,  for 
repeated  kindnesses,  and  to  Prof.  W.  H.  Hulme,  of  West- 
ern Reserve  University,  for  most  generously  allowing  me 
to  make  use  of  his  unpublished  notes  on  the  Longinus 
legend.  I  have  attempted  to  make  aclaiov/ledginent  in  my 
notes  for  these  special  indebtednesses.  To  Prof.  Carleton 
Brown,  of  Bryn  Ma^vr  College,  in  particular,  I  am  under 
many  obligations.  He  first  suggested  to  me  the  subject  of 
this  investigation,  and  he  has  aided  me  in  the  various 
stages  of  my  work  b}^  supplying  numerous  references,  by 
criticising  the  manuscript  of  the  dissertation,  and  finally 
by  carefully  going  over  the  proof  sheets. 

I  am  also  indebted  for  courteous  treatment  and  assist- 
ance, especially  in  the  manuscript  departments,  to  the 
librarians  of  the  British  Museum,  the  Bodleian  Library 
and  the  Cambridge  University  Library,  and  for  many 
kindnesses  to  the  libraries  of  Columbia  LTniversity,  Bryn 
Mawr  College  and  Vassar  College. 

R.  J.  P. 

-     Vassae  College, 

April,  1911. 


CONTENTS 


Introdcction 
Chapter 


I. 

The 

Bible  and  Ecclesiastical  Tradition  . 

1. 
2. 

3. 

Longinus  in  the  Apocrypha 
The  Testimony  of  the  Fathers    . 
Marty rologies,  Earlier  and  Later 

4. 

Ocher  Writers 

. 

II. 

The 

Legend  of  Longinus  a  Fictitious 

Narrative. 

1. 

Kame 

o 

The  Acts  of  Longinus 

3. 

The  Blindness  of  Longinus 

III. 

LoNGiNus  IN  Art     .... 

. 

Chapter 


Chapter 

Chapter      IV.    The  Lance  of   Longinus  as  Sacred   Relic  and 
IN  THE  Liturgy 
L    The  Lance  as  Sacred  Relic 
2.    Longinus  and  the  Liturgy 

Chapter        V.    Longinus  in  Charms 

Chapter      VI.    Longinus  in  English  Literature 

1.  Homilies  and  Homiletic  Treatises 

2.  The  Gospel  of  Nicodemus     . 

3.  The  Cursor  Mundi 

4.  The  South  English  Legendary   . 

5.  The  ' '  Northern  Passion  ' ' 

6.  Other  Poems  on  the  Passion 

7.  The  Hours  of  the  Cross 

8.  Saint  Edmund's  Speculum 

9.  English  Meditations  Derived  from  Bonaventura, 
10.  Marian  Laments 
IL  Religious  Lyrics 

12.  The  Fifteen  Signs  before  the  Day  of 

13.  Piers  Plowman    .... 

14.  Chaucer     ..... 

15.  Lydgate     ..... 

16.  A  Lollard  Creed 

17.  Romances  Exclusive  of  the  Grail 

18.  The  Drama         .... 


Judgment 


VI 


CONTENTS 


Chapter    VII.    Longinus  and  the  Baldr  Legend 

1.  The  Difficulty  of  Chronology 

2.  The  Gosforth  Cross 

The  Odin  Story 

Frazer's  Explanation  of  the  Baldr  Myth    . 
Kau£fmann's  Theory  .... 

The  Blind  Spearman  .... 

Chapter  VIII.   The  Lance  of  Longinus  and  the  Grail     . 

1.  Survey  of  Testimony  .... 

2.  Pagan  Color  in  the  Grail  Story 

I.    The  Theory  of  Professor  A.  C.  L.  Broun 

1.  Celtic   Marvellous  Weapons   and   the   Bleedinj 

Lance  ....... 

2.  The  Shining  Lance  and  the  Spear  of  Longinus 

3.  The  Bleeding  Lance  and  the  Spear  of  Longinus 

4.  The  Poisonous  and  Destructive   Lance  and  the 

Spear  of  Longinus        .... 

5.  The  Christian  Spear  a   Symbol   of  Destruction 

and  of  Peace         ...... 

6.  The  Christian  Bleeding  Lance  in  Art  and  in  the 

Drama  ...... 


II. 


IIL 


The  Theories  of  Professor  Nitze  and  3fiss  Weston 

1.  Professor  Nitze  and  the  Celtic  Theory 

2.  Agrarian  Rites  as  an  Explanation  of  the  Grail 

Ceremony      ...... 

3.  Connection   between    Early   Liturgy   and  Rite: 

of  the  Mysteries    ..... 

4.  Elements  Common   to  Grail   Rites,  Mysteries 

and  Liturgy 

The  Grail  Rite  

1.  The  Grail  Procession         .... 

2.  Other  Ritualistic  Points    .... 

3.  The  Fisher  King 


PAGE 

142 
146 
147 
151 
155 
157 
160 

166 
166 
170 

172 

172 
177 
181 

189 

191 

193 
195 
195 

197 

200 

203 
206 
206 
213 
217 


THE    LEGEND   OF    LONGINUS 


II^TEODUCTION 

The  literature  and  art  of  the  Middle  Ages  found  no 
more  popular  subject  for  treatment  than  the  Christian 
legend  of  Longinus,  the  blind  soldier  who  pierced  the  side 
of  the  Crucified  and  regained  his  sight  through  the  blood 
that  touched  his  eyes,  who  thereupon  believed  in  Christ, 
and  finally,  after  many  adventures,  suffered  martyrdom. 
Being  an  ecclesiastical  legend,  it  found  a  place,  of  course, 
in  the  martyrologies  and  festials  of  the  church.  But  it  is 
not  on  the  side  of  hagiography  that  the  story  assumed  its 
chief  importance.  Through  the  interest  which  it  awak- 
ened in  the  popular  imagination,  the  legend  extended  its 
influence  outside  this  special  province  and  found  its  way 
into  literature.  These  two  phases  of  its  appeal  are  well 
illustrated  by  the  two  dissertations  which  the  legend  has 
called  forth.  The  first  of  these,  written  more  than  two 
centuries  ago  by  G.  TI.  Goetze  (Dissertatio  inauguralis  de 
Centurione  sub  cruce  Cliristi,  Lipsiae,  1698),  deals  with 
the  Longinus  legend  exclusively  from  the  standpoint  of 
religious  history,  and  attempts  to  establish  the  authenticity 
of  the  miracle  connected  with  the  Crucifixion.  Since  it 
contributes  nothing  to  our  knowledge  of  the  origin  of  the 
legend  and  does  not  discuss  its  use  in  literature,  it  is  here 
negligible.  The  second,  by  Carl  Kroner,  Die  Longinus- 
legende.  Hire  Entstehung  und  Aushreitung  in  der  franzo- 

1 


Z  INTRODUCTION 

sischen  Litteratur,'^  is  a  serious  examination  of  the  early 
history  of  the  legend  and  of  its  occurrence  in  French 
literature. 

If  Kroner's  discussion  of  the  early  forms  of  the  Lon- 
ginus  legend  had  been  more  comprehensive,  it  would  not 
be  necessary  to  take  up  again  the  question  of  its  origin. 
But  the  growth  of  a  legend  in  the  Middle  Ages  is  a  much 
more  complex  matter  than  is  recognized  in  the  method 
followed  by  Kroner.  Though  the  legend,  in  rather  widely 
differing  formis,  appears  in  several  apocryphal  documents, 
he  examines  only  one,  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus.  He 
gives  no  intimation  that  the  name  of  the  spearman  was 
not  always  Longinus.  He  contents  himself  with  the  con- 
sideration of  two-  Longinuses;  though,  in  the  first  six 
centuries,  the  records  show  no  fe^ver  than  a  dozen  mar- 
tyrs bearing  this  name,  whose  lives  perhaps  contributed 
something  to  the  development  of  the  story.  He  fails  to 
note  the  history  of  the  lance  as  a  relic  and  its  place  in  the 
early  liturgy.  'Not  does  he  suggest  by  more  than  a  single 
sentence  the  prominence  of  Longinus  in  mediaeval  icono- 
graphy, and  the  influence  this  popularity  must  have  ex- 
erted on  the  spread  and  growth  of  the  legend. 

Though  Kroner's  treatment  of  the  second  part  of  his 
subject — ^the  use  of  the  Longinus  legend  in  French  litera- 
ture— concerns  less  closely  those  who  approach  the  exami- 
nation of  the  story  from  the  special  point  of  view  of  Eng- 
lish literature,  it  should  perhaps  be  stated  that  even  here 
he  has  not  been  exhaustive.  He  confines  his  attention 
mainly  to  the  presence  of  the  legend  in  the  romances.  He 
cites  twenty  in  which  mention  of  Longinus  occurs ;  but  he 
might  have  included  in  his  list  as  many  more.^    Moreover, 

1  Miinster  dissertation,  1899.  ) 

2  Cf.  E.  Langlois,  Table  des  Noms  Propres  compris  dans  les 
Chansons  de  Geste,  1904. 


INTRODUCTION  6 

he  does  not  point  out  the  importance  of  the  lance  of  Longi- 
nns  to  the  crusading  romances,  nor  does  he  hint  at  its 
presence  in  the  Grail  cycle^ — a  connection  which  perhaps 
more  than  any  other  one  thing  makes  the  examination  of 
the  legend  worth  while  to  modem  students.  Furthermore, 
Kroner  gives  only  one  example,  and  that  without  com- 
ment, of  the  appearance  of  Longinus  in  that  queer  mani- 
festation of  mediaeval  scientific  ignorance — ^the  charm. 
He  considers  the  use  of  the  legend  in  the  drama,  but  not 
at  all  its  presence  in  the  liturgical  literature  that  preceded 
the  drama,  nor  in  contemporary  religious  non-dramatic 
productions.  ITor  does  he  comment  on  what  has  been  con- 
sidered a  possible  J^orse  parallel  to  the  Longinus  legend. 

Besides  these  dissertations,  there  have  appeared  nu- 
merous notes  on  the  Longinus  legend.  Of  these  the  most 
inclusive  is  that  by  Dr.  Hulme,  who,  in  his  introduc- 
tion to  the  Harrowing  of  Hell,  discusses  the  legends  that 
seem  to  trace  their  origin  to  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus. 
He  refers  to  the  story  of  the  blind  Longinus  as  one  of  the 
most  interesting  of  these,  and  comments  on  the  strong 
influence  it  exerted  on  both  the  literature  and  the  art  of 
the  Middle  Ages.  He  calls  attention  to  its  relationship  to 
the  early  literature  of  Scandinavia,  and  to  its  importance 
in  the  Grail  romances.*    • 

Longinus  has  been  more  or  less  fully  considered  also 
by  the  various  writers  on  the  Grail  cycle.  The  most  recent 
of  these,  indeed,  Professor  A.  C.  J^.  Brown,  takes  as  his 

3  E.  Freymond,  Kritischer  Jahresbericht  iiber  die  Fortschritte 
der  rom.  Phil.,  VIII,  p.  269.  "C.  Kroner  hat  in  seiner  Disserta- 
tion, .  .  .  aus  Nationalepen  u.  anderen  Dichtungen  verschie- 
dener  Art  oft  bedeutungslose  Stellen  iiber  Longin  gesammelt;  er 
bringt  auch  Dinge  (so  S.  52  f.)  die  zu  seinem  Thema  gar  nicht 
gehoren,  gedenkt  aber  nicht  mit  einem  Worte  der  Rolle,  die  die 
Lanze  des  Longinus  in  der  Gralsage  spielt." 

4  EETS.,  e.  s.  100,  pp.  Ixviii-lxix. 


INTEODUCTION 


point  of  departure^  the  bleeding  lance,  often  spoken  of  in 
the  Grail  romances  as  the  lance  of  Longinus,  though  that 
there  was  any  original  connection  between  the  two  he  abso- 
lutely denies. 

It  seems  worth  while,  then,  notwithstanding  the  work 
already  done  on  the  subject,  to  consider  again  the  origin 
and  development  of  the  legend.  In  addition,  the  present 
study  undertakes  to  trace  the  course  of  the  Longinus  stor\>' 
in  English  literature.  This  apocryphal  martyr  is  inter- 
esting to  the  student  of  the  Middle  Ages,  on  the  one  hand, 
as  showing  how  slight  a  foundation  in  fact  was  necessary 
to  the  growth  of  a  much-handled  tale;  and  on  the  other, 
and  chiefly,  as  indicating  how  writers  of  all  classes  unhesi- 
tatingly availed  themselves  of  a  popular  legend,  in  many 
cases  with  no  attempt  at  embellishment  or  enlargement. 


5  PMLA.,  March,  1910. 


CHAPTEK  I 

THE  BIBLE  AND  ECCLESIASTICAL  TKA- 
DITION 

In  seeking  the  origin  of  a  saint's  legend,  which  pur- 
ports to  date  back  to  the  time  of  Christ,  one  begins  nat- 
urally by  scrutinizing  all  available  Christian  records, 
both  those  sanctioned  by  the  Church,  and  those  not  so 
recognized.  Such  an  investigation,  however,  in  the  case 
of  St.  Longinus  discloses  little  to  authenticate  his  existence 
as  a  contemporary  of  Jesus.  The  beginnings  of  his  story 
abound  in  confusion  and  contradiction.  His  legend  was 
slow  in  forming  and  bears  every  mark  of  having  been 
manufactured. 

The  dictionary-makers  and  compilers  of  popular  mod- 
em martyrologies^  give  a  stereotyped  form  of  the  legend 
without  accounting  for  its  origin.  They  tell  us  that  there 
is  no  trustworthy  authority  for  the  acts  and  martyrdom  of 
St  Longinus,  that  he  was  introduced  to  the  West  by  the 
apocryphal  Gospel  of  Nicodemus,  and  that  his  name 
probably  derives  from  a  Latinized  form  of  the  Greek 
^'^yXV,  a  spear.  They  add  that  the  centurion  who  ex- 
claimed at  the  earthquake  and  believed  in  Jesus,  as  re- 
corded by  Matthew  and  Mark,^  has  been  confused  with 
the  soldier  who,  according  to  John,^  pierced  his  side. 
The  Roman  Church  celebrates  the  soldier  Longinus  on 
the  fifteenth  of  March,  and  the  Greek,  the  centurion 
Longinus  on  the  sixteenth  of  October.  These  writers  state, 
moreover,  that  Longinus  was  blind ;  that  when  he  pierced 

1  Baring-Gould,  Brewer,  Larousse,  Mrs.  Jameson,  etc. 

2  Matthew  XXVII,  54;  Mark  XV,  39. 

3  John  XIX,  34. 

5 


6  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOXGINUS 

the  side  of  Christ,  the  blood  ran  down  the  spear  to  his 
hands;  that  he  touched  his  eyes  and  regained  his  sight. 
He  then  went  into  Csesarea  in  Cappadocia,  and  preached 
for  a  number  of  years,  making  many  converts.  He  suf- 
fered martyrdom  under  Octavius. 

§1.       LONGINUS    IN    THE    ApOCRTPHA 

In  the  canonical  Gospels,  though  both  the  soldier  and 
the  centurion  appear  in  the  accounts  of  the  Crucifixion, 
the  incidents  related  of  them  are  wholly  unlike,  and  there 
is  not  the  slightest  indication  that  they  are  to  be  identified 
as  the  same  person.  The  conversion  of  the  centurion  is 
related,  in  fairly  similar  form^  by  Matthew  and  Mark. 
The  text  of  Matthew  reads :  "Centurio  autem,  et  qui  cum 
eo  erant,  custodientes  Jesum,  viso  terrae  motu  et  his  quae 
fiebant,  timuerant  valde,  dicentes:  Vere  Filius  Dei  erat 
iste.'^  John,  on  the  other  hand,  though  he  says  nothing 
of  the  centurion,  gives  the  only  account  of  the  soldier  who 
pierced  the  side  of  Christ:  "Sed  unus  militum  lancea 
latus  Domini  perforavit  et  continuo  exivit  sang-uis  et 
aqua." 

iN'or  is  there  in  the  earliest  of  the  apocryphal  Gospels 
an  identification  of  the  centurion  with  the  soldier  who 
pierced  the  side  of  Jesus.  The  Gospel  of  PeterJ^  of  espe- 
cial interest  because  of  its  probable  early  date,  omits  all 
mention  of  the  piercing  of  Christ's  side,  and  consequent- 
ly of  the  soldier,  merely  stating  that  the  Jews,  in  order 
to  prolong  the  torments  of  Christ,  commanded  that  his 
legs  should  not  be  broken.  The  only  thing  that  suggests 
the  piercing  of  the  side,  is  the  statement  in  the  account 
of  the  mocking  of  Jesus:   "Others  pierced  him  with  a 

4  The  Akhmim  Fragment  of  the  Apocryphal  Gospel  of  St.  Peter, 
ed.  by  H.  B.  Swete,  1893.  According  to  Swete  (p.  xiii),  the  date 
is  not  later  than  170,  nor  earlier  than  150;  Harnack  assigns  the 
fragment  to  the  years  110 — 130;  Dobschutz  to  the  second  century. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TEADITION  • 

reed."^  But  this  is  probably  drawn  directly  from  Mat- 
thew's reference  to  the  Jews'  smiting  Jesus  with  a  reed. 
With  the  centurion,  howtever,  the  case  is  otherwise. 
He  is  given  a  name,  though  it  is  not  Longinus;  and  he 
is  converted,  though  not  by  an  earthquake,  as  in  Mat- 
thew : 

"But  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  and  Elders,  being  assembled 
together  and  hearing  that  the  whole  people  murmured  .  .  . 
were  afraid  and  came  to  Pilate,  beseeching  him  and  saying,  'De- 
liver to  us  soldiers  that  we  may  guard  His  sepulchre  for  three 
days,  lest  His  disciples  come  and  steal  Him  away,  and  the  people 
suppose  that  He  is  risen  from  the  dead,  and  do  Him  mischief.' 
So  Pilate  delivered  unto  them  Petronius  the  centurion  with 
soldiers  to  guard  the  tomb.  .  .  .  Now  in  the  night,  when 
the  Lord's  Day  was  drawing  on,  as  the  soldiers  kept  guard  by  two 
and  two  in  a  watch,  there  was  a  great  voice  in  heaven,  and  they 
saw  the  heavens  opened,  and  two  men  descend  from  thence  with 
much  light,  and  draw  nigh  unto  the  tomb.  And  the  stone  which 
had  been  cast  at  the  door  rolled  away  of  itself  and  made  way  in 
part,  and  the  tomb  was  opened,  and  both  the  young  men  entered 
in.  The  soldiers,  therefore,  when  they  saw  it,  awakened  the  cen- 
turion and  the  Elders  (for  they  were  also  there  keeping  watch); 
and  as  they  had  told  the  things  that  they  had  seen,  again  they 
saw  three  men  coming  forth  from  the  tomb,  two  of  them  sup- 
porting the  other,  and  a  cross  following  them;  and  the  head  of 
the  two  reached  to  heaven,  but  that  of  Him  who  was  led  by  them 
overpassed  the  heavens.  And  they  heard  a  voice  from  the 
heavens,  saying.  Thou  didst  preach  to  them  that  sleep;  and  a 
response  was  heard  from  the  cross,  Yea.  .  .  .  When  they 
saw  this,  they  of  the  centurion's  company  hastened  by  night  to 
Pilate  .  .  .  and  told  all  that  they  had  seen,  greatly  distressed, 
and  saying,  'Truly  he  was  the  Son  of  God.'  "6 

The  next  apocryphal  account  that  is  connected  with 
our  story  is  of  great  importance,  in  that  it  is  usually 
given  as  its  source.  Here  for  the  first  time  appears  the 
name  Longinus,  and  here  we  find  it  applied  to  both  soldier 

5  Gosp.  of  Peter,  p.  25. 

6  Ibid.,  pp.  26,  27. 


8  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

and  centurion.  In  the  Acta  Pilati/  Chapter  XV'I  (Cod. 
A  of  Tischendorf),  the  name  Longinus — with  slightly 
varied  spelling,  it  is  to  be  noted — is  applied  to  the 
soldier  {AoyyliJi.o<i  6  arparLo)Tr]<i),^  whereas  in  Chapter  XI 
(a  later  text,  Cod.  B)  it  is  applied  to  the  centurion 
(Ao77t/i09  6  eKarovrapxa).^  In  the  Latin  text.  Chapter 
X,  the  name  is  given  the  soldier :  "Accipiens  autem  Lon- 
ginus miles  lanceam  aperuit  latus  eius.'"°  Though  the 
same  name  is  employed  for  both,^^  the  two  stories  are  not 
otherwise  confused.  Except  the  addition  of  the  name, 
the  soldier's  story  has  acquired  nothing  not  already  found 
in  John.  The  centurion  is  converted  to  belief  in  Christ 
by  the  marvels  that  accompanied  the  crucifixion. 

A  third  apocryphal  account,  the  Letter  of  Pilate  to 
Herod,^^  likewise  calls  the  centurion  Longinus,  but  adds 
little  more  to  his  story: 

"And  my  wife  Procla,  having  believed  on  account  of  the  visions 
which  appeared  to  her  while  I  was  hesitating  to  deliver  Jesus  up 
through  thy  counsel,  when  thou  sentest  that  I  should  deliver  him 
to  the  people  of  Israel,  because  of  the  ill-will  they  had,  she  hav- 
ing heard  that  Jesus  was  risen,  and  had  appeared  in  Galilee,  left 
me;  and  took  with  her  Longinus  the  faithful  centurion,  and 
twelve  soldiers,  the  same  that  had  watched  at  the  sepulchre. 

7  More  frequently  referred  to  as  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus.  Ac- 
cording to  Dobschutz  (Hastings'  Dictionary  of  the  Bible,  1900), 
it  belongs  to  the  fourth  (fifth)  century. 

8  Tischendorf,  Evangelia  Apocrypha,  XVI,  283. 
sibid.,  XI,  309. 

10  Ibid.,  X,  362. 

11  Lipsius,  Die  Pilatus  Acten,  p.  38,  calls  attention  to  this  con- 
fusion. 

12  M.  R.  James,  Apocrypha  Anecdota  II  {Texts  and  Studies  ed. 
J.  A.  Robinson,  V)  1897,  p.  xlviii:  "The  date  which  we  may 
assign  to  the  Letters  can  not  be  an  early  one.  ...  On  the  other 
hand,  they  are  found  in  a  MS  of  the  sixth  or  seventh  century  in 
Syriac;  and  they  may  quite  well  be  a  couple  of  centuries  older 
than  that."  Cf.  B.  H.  Cowper,  Apocryphal  Gospels,  p.  389.  The 
Letters  of  Pilate  to  Herod  "are  forgeries;  produced  perhaps  about 
A.  D.  400." 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TRADITION  V 

.  .  .  And  whilst  they  were  standing  and  wondering  and  gazing 
at  him,  he,  conscious  of  it,  looked  at  them  and  talked  to  them 
and  said,  'What  is  it?  Do  you  still  not  believe  me,  Procla  and 
Longinus?'  .  .  .  And  my  wife,  Procla,  having  heard  him  say 
these  things,  and  the  centurion  Longinus  who  was  trusted  to 
watch  over  the  sufferings  of  Jesus,  and  the  soldiers  who  jour- 
neyed with  her,  weeping  and  groaning,  came  and  announced  to 
me  these  things."i3 

Herod's  Epistle  to  Pilate,  preserving  jet  another  apoc- 
ryphal tradition,  gives  a  description  of  the  death  of  Lon- 
ginus which  is  wholly  different  from  that  found  later  in 
the  martyrologies : 

"Now  in  the  same  hour,  the  angel  of  the  Lord,  having  laid 
hold  of  the  head  of  Longinus,  who  pierced  the  side  of  Jesus  with 
a  spear,  took  him  beyond  the  Jordan  to  a  desert  place;  and 
bringing  him  further  to  a  cave,  stretched  him  on  the  ground  on 
his  face.  And  a  lion  was  so  stationed  as  to  come  forth  at  even- 
ing and  to  consume  the  body  until  morning.  And  in  the  morning 
the  lion  goeth  away,  and  again  his  body  groweth  again.  And  he 
suffereth  this  punishment  until  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  Jesus 
Christ."i4 

In  this  account  Longinus,  it  will  be  observed,  figures 
simply  as  the  hated  executioner  who  is  punished  for  his 
wicked  deed.  We  appear,  therefore,  to  be  dealing  with 
an  early  stage  of  the  legend  before  the  story  of  his  con- 
version and  martyrdom  had  been  added. 

These  apocryphal  accounts  would  indicate  that  there 
were  two  distinct  characters,  the  soldier  and  the  centu- 
rion; the  one  merely  a  wicked  participator  in  the  cruci- 

13  J.  de  Q.  Donehoo,  Apocryphal  and  Legendary  Life  of  Christ, 
p.  491;  cf.  James,  op.  cit.,  p.  71,  and  Cowper,  op.  cit.,  p.  393. 

14  Donehoo,  op.  cit.,  p.  496.  As  to  this  Epistle,  James  (op.  cit., 
p.  xlvii,  xlviii)  remarks:  "The  amusing  story  about  Longinus, 
which  is  appended  to  Herod's  letter,  comes  from  another  hand. 
Longinus  is  seen  in  it,  not  as  the  converted  centurion,  who  is  a 
saint  and  martyr  of  the  church,  but  as  the  hard-hearted  Roman 
soldier  who  carried  out  the  sentence  of  crucifixion.  It  may  rep- 
resent a  local  legend  of  Palestine.  The  punishment  is  modelled 
on  that  of  Tityus  or  Prometheus." 


10  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

fixion,  and  the  other  a  convert  to  belief  in  Jesus,  who  at 
once  became  a  prominent  supporter  of  his  faith.  The 
use  of  the  same  name  for  both  is  difficult  to  explain,  and 
probably  means  that  the  two  stories  were  already  to  some 
extent  confused. 

§2.     Testimony  of  the  Fathers 

The  testimony  of  the  early  church  Fathers  confirms, 
in  a  measure,  the  indications  of  two  different  persons 
of  distinct  characteristics.  Chrysostom  shows  clearly 
that  a  story  of  the  martyrdom  of  the  centurion  was  cur- 
rent in  his  time,  though  not  fully  accepted.  However, 
he  gives  him  no  name: 

"Et  centurio  quoque  Deum  tunc  glorificavit  dicens:  'Vere  hie 
homo  Justus  erat'.  Et  turbae  quae  venerant  ad  spectandum,  per- 
cutientes  pectora  sua  revertebantur  (Luc,  23,  47-48).  Tanta  est 
virtus  Crucifixi,  ut  post  tot  irrisiones  et  dicteria,  et  Centurio  et 
populus  compungerentur.  Quidam  vero  narrant  hunc  centu- 
rionem  postea  in  fide  roboratum  martyrium  fortiter  subiisse."i5 

On  the  other  hand,  according  to  Chrysostom,  the 
soldier  who  pierced  the  body  of  Christ  is  still  the  wicked 
executioner : 

"Alia  quoque  praedicto  finem  accipit.  Venientes  enim  milites 
aliorum  fregerunt  crura,  Christi  non  item.  Attamen  hi  in  gra- 
tiam  Judaeorum  ejus  latus  lancea  perforarunt,  et  mortuo  corporl 
contumeliam  inferunt.  0  scelestum  et  execrandum  f acinus!  Sed 
ne  turberis,  ne  dejiciaris,  dilecte.  Nam  quae  mala  illi  voluntate 
faciebant,  veritatem  propugnabant.  Prophetia  namque  erat,  vi- 
debunt  in  quem  transfixerunt.  Neque  hoc  tantum;  sed  etiam  iis 
qui  infideles  ut  Thomae  et  ipsi  similibus.  Ad  haec  etiam  myste- 
rium  ineffabile  consummabatur.    Exivit  enim,  sanguis  et  aqua."i6 

The  centurion's  story  grows  by  slight  accretions;  he 
is  next  assigned  to  a  definite  locality.     Gregory  of  !Ryssa 

15  Chrysostom,  In  Matthaeum  Homil.  LXXXVIII,  LXXXIX, 
Patrol.  Graec.  LVIII,  col.  177. 

16  Homil.  LXXXIV.     Op.  cit.,  LIX,  col.  463. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TRADITION  11 

is  quoted  bj  Zacagni  as  authority  for  the  statement  that 
the  centurion  Longinus  became  the  first  bishop  of 
Cjesarea.^'*'  In  the  Manuale  (a  pseudo-Augustinian  pro- 
duction), there  is  reference  to  Longinus.  It  adds  noth- 
ing, however,  of  information:  "Longinus  aperuit  mihi 
latus  Christi,  lancea  et  ego  intravi,  et  ibi  requiesco  se- 
curus."^^ 

Though  the  fathers  of  the  early  church  afford  us  little 
information  so  far  as  the  development  of  the  incidents  of 
the  legend  is  concerned,  they  supply  important  testimony 
to  the  significance  which  theologians  already  attached  to 
the  deed  of  Longinus.  One  may  trace  an  ever  growing 
tendency  to  give  a  mystical  meaning  to  the  wounding  of 
Christ  on  the  Cross.  This  inclination  is  to  be  observed  as 
early  as  Ambrose,  who  declares:  "quando  de  latere  ejus 
aqua  fluxit  et  sanguis,  quo  laetificavit  animas  universorum, 
quia  illo  flumine  lavit  peccatum  totius  mundi."^^  Like- 
wise Augustine  says:  "Dormienti  Adse  fit  Eva  de  latere 
(Gen.  II,  21)  :  mortuo  Christo  lancea  percutitur  latus 
(Joan  XIX,  34)  ut  profluant  sacramenta  quibus  formetur 
Ecclesia.""*'  The  same  parallel  is  drawn  again  in  the 
Passio  Petri  et  Pauli:  "Ut  sicut  ex  costa  Adse  fabricata 
est  Eva,  sic  ex  latere  Christi  in  cruee  positi  fabricaretur 
ecclesia  quge  non  haberet  maculam  neque  rugam."^^  It  is 
evident  that  from  this  tendency  toward  a  symbolistic  inter- 

iT  Zacagni,  Collectanea  monumentoruTn  veterum,  1698,  p.  391. 
Ex  hoc  Nysseni  loco  discimus  Longinum  Centurionem,  qui  lancea 
Christi  latus  in  cruce  perfodit,  primum  Caesareae  episcopum 
fuisse.  Zacagni  gives  no  reference  to  Gregory.  I  have  not  been 
able  to  find  the  passage  referred  to.  Cf.  Douhet,  Diet,  des 
Legendes  de  Christianisme.  (Migne,  Encyc.  Theol.  ser.  Ill) 
supp.  vol.  14.     Cf.  Kroner,  op.  cit.  p.  17. 

IS  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.,  XL,  col.  961. 

19  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.  XIV,  col.  1194. 

20  Migne,  XXXV,  col.  1463. 

21  Lipsius  and  Bonnet,  Passio  Sane.  Apost.  Petri  et  Pauli,  p.  127. 

2 


12  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

pretatiou  of  the  piercing  of  Christ  with  the  spear,  Longi- 
nus  himself  must  benefit.  His  act  must  be  explained  in 
some  new  way.  May  this  idea  have  suggested  the  motive 
for  the  conversion  of  the  soldier  ? 

§3.     JVIartykologies,  Eaelieb  and  Later 

After  searching  for  information  about  a  legend  con- 
nected with  the  crucifixion,  in  the  apocrypha  and  in  the 
writings  of  the  church  Fathers,  one  obviously  turns  to 
the  martyrologies.  The  early  martyrologies,  their  con- 
tents and  histories,  have  been  carefully  examined  by 
modern  scholars.  Those  given  by  Hamack  and  Achelis 
for  the  first  centuries  are:  (1)  Die  Depositio  Martyrum 
des  Chronographen  vom  Jahre  354,  which,  Achelis  says, 
"1st  der  alteste  erhaltene  Heiligenkalender,  und  die 
Quelle  aller  abendlandischen  Kalender,  soweit  dieselben 
Eomische  Martyrer  aufnehmen;"  (2)  Das  Martyrolo- 
gium  Karthaginiense  Mahillons;  (3)  Das  Martyrologium 
Syriacum.  In  none  of  these  does  Longinus  appear.  It  is 
true  that  these,  as  they  now  exist,  are  incomplete.  The 
first,  the  Depositio,  is  fragmentary,  containing  only 
twenty-two  days  in  all.  Moreover,  it  is  chiefly  local  in 
character,  the  saints  celebrated  being  for  the  most  part 
of  Rome  or  its  vicinity.  The  martyrology  of  Carthage, 
which  Mabillon  found  in  1682,--  does  not  include  the 
whole  year:  beginning  mth  the  nineteenth  of  April,  it 
extends  to  the  sixteenth  of  February,  thus  omitting  part 
of  February,   all  of  March,^^  and  part  of  April.      Tlie 

22  Found  on  the  cover  of  a  MS  in  the  library  of  the  Abbey  of 
Cluny.  Mabillon  dated  it  seventh  cent.;  cf.  Achelis,  Die  Mart,  ihre 
Geschichte  u.  ihr  Wert  (Abhandlungen  d.  konigl.  Gesellschaft  d. 
Wissen.  z.  Gottingen,  Phil.  Hist.  Kl.  N.  F.,  Band  III,  Nro.  3,  pp. 
18,  19). 

23  It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  feast  of  S.  Longinus  is  usually  the 
15  March. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL,    TRADITION  13 

Sjriac  Martyrology^*  does  not  contain  Longinns  in  its 
list  of  saints,  but  there  is  a  Longinus  of  Mashkena  in 
the  list  of  presbyters.  ^^ 

The  next  martjrology  is  that  which  goes  under  the 
name  of  Jerome.  Achelis  says:  "Die  Passionen  des 
M\_artyrologiutn\  H [ieronymianumi  bilden  namlich  das 
Bindeglied  zwischen  den  Kalendem  der  alten  Kirche 
und  der  nachsten  Generation  dieser  Litteraturgattung/"" 
Here  the  reference  to  Longinus  is  brief  enough:  Idus 
Martins:  In  Cappadocia  S.  Longini  Marty ris.'^  Achelis. 
in  his  Calendar  of  Jerome,  gives  two  dates:  "In  Cappa- 
docien  Longinus  am  id.  mart,  und  10.  kal.  dec."^®  In 
discussing  this  and  other  cases  of  similar  confusion,  he 
says:  "Ich  kann  nicht  untersuchen,  ob  in  einzelnen 
Fallen  wirklich  zwei  Martyrer  desselben  IS^amens  in  der- 
selben  Stadt  existiert  haben,  wenn  icli  mich  nicht  ins 
Endlose  verlieren  will."^®  Achelis  speaks  of  the  mar- 
tyrology  as  a  compilation  made  in  the  fifth  and  sixth 
centuries,^" 

Jerome's  entry  does  not  indicate  whether  the  centurion 
or  the  soldier  is  meant.  From  the  fact  that  later  the 
soldier's  Feast  is  on  the  fifteenth  of  March,  and  the  cen- 
turion's, on  the  sixteenth  of  October,  it  seems  probable 
that  the  Longinus  here  referred  to  is  the  soldier.  The 
two  entries  for  Cappadocia  may  be  merely  a  mistake, 
but  taken  in  connection  with  the  confusion  of  name  in 
the  Acta  Pilati,  it  may  indicate  that  the  two  stories  were 
already  confused,  and  that  the  soldier  had  acquired  con- 
nection with  Cappadocia  from  the  centurion. 

24  w.  Wright,  An  Ancient  Syrian  Martyrology  {Journal  of  Sa- 
cred Literature,  III  (New  Series)  1866.)  Wright  does  not  fix 
the  date;  he  says  the  MS  was  transcribed  A.  D.  412  and  it  is  not 
much  older  than  the  MS.     (p.  53.) 

25  Op.  cit.,  p.  432.  26  Achelis,  op.  cit.,  p.  110. 
27  Oper.  S.  Hieronymus,  Edit.  Veron.   (1742)  t.  XI,  486;  Migne, 

Patrol.  Lat.  XXX,  col.  462.  28  Achelis,  op.  cit.,  p.  79. 

29  Op.  cit.,  p.  79.  30  Op.  cit.,  p.  211. 


14 


THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


Instead  of  considering  separately  the  various  mar- 
tyrologies  of  the  Middle  Ages,^^  in  all  of  which  Longi- 

31  Henri  Quentin,  Les  Martyrologes  Historigues  du  Moyen  Age, 
Paris,  1908,  p.  683,  shows  clearly  their  relationship  by  the  fol- 
lowing diagram: 


^    (?) 


Bede. 
Bede    QIss.   le  CI.) 
Bede/(]\I^.   He  CI.) 
Siartylyonndis  (Ms.  3879) 

Florus   (Ms.  de  Sf.  Croix) 
Mart^  de  Fulda 

Florus  M. 
T 


Rhabam  Maur 


etit  Rdmain 


Wohlfard^ 

Herman  Contract 


Mar£.  Romain 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TKADITION  15 

nus  appears,  I  shall  call  attention  only  to  typical  forms 
indicating  the  development  of  the  legend.  In  the  first 
group,  which  belongs  to  the  eighth  and  ninth  centuries, 
there  is  definite  evidence  of  the  confusion  of  the  story 
of  the  soldier  with  that  of  the  centurion.  The  soldier 
Longinus  has  here  borrowed  from  the  centurion's  story 
the  incident  of  the  conversion  by  the  miracles  which  ac- 
companied the  Crucifixion  and  also  that  of  the  martyrdom 
in  Cappadocia.  The  blinding  of  the  cruel  judge,  a  stock 
episode  in  the  legends  of  saints,  has  also  been  added. 

The  life  of  St.  Longinus  is  the  same  in  Bede,'^ 
Rhabanus  Maunis,  and  IsTotker,^'  and  differs  only  slight- 
ly in  Ado^*  and  Usuardus.^^  The  text  of  Rhabanus 
Maurus,  as  printed  in  Migne,  "ex  codice  MS.  monasteni 
S.  Galli"  is  as  follows: 

Id.  Martii:  In  Cappadocia  passio  sancti  Longini  martyris:  de 
quo  in  libello  martyrii  ejus  narratur  quod  aliquando  militans 
sub  centurione  Romano,  in  passione  Domini  latus  ejus  cum 
lancea  in  cruce  aperiret,  et  viso  terraemotu  et  signis  quae  fiebant, 
crediderit  in  Christum,  poenitentiam  agens  de  operibus  suis 
pristinis:  postea  monachus  f actus  per  triginta  et  quatuor  annos 
Christo  militavit,  multos  convertens  ad  fidem  Dei;  ad  extremum 
vero-  martyrizavit  in  Cappadocia  sub  Octavio  praeside,  quern, 
propter  infidelitatem  suam  divino  judicio  percussum  corporea 
caecitate,  post  martyrium  suum  illuminavit.36 

32  Migne,  Pfitrol.  Lat.,  XCIV,  col.  859,  Editio  Coloniensis.  Idus 
Martii  Cappadocia,  S.  Long.  Mart.;  also  Edit.  Bolland.  15  Idibus 
Cappadocia. 

33  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.  CXXXI,  col.  1055,  Id.  Mart,  in  Cappa.  S. 
Longini  martyris:    qui  cum  in  passione,  etc. 

34  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.  CXXIII,  col.  167,  and  col.  343,  Sept.  1. 
apud  Caesaream  Cappadociae,  Longini  militis  et  martyris,  qui 
latus  Dom.,  etc. 

35  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.  CXXIV,  col.  843,  Mar.  15.  In  Caesarea 
Cappa.;  passio  sancti  Longini  qui  latus  Dom.,  etc. 

36  Migne,  Patrol.  Lat.  CX,  col.  1135. 


16  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGIiSrUS 

Bede  and  Notker  differ  from  Rhabanus  Maurus  only 
in  making  the  years  of  service  thirty-eigkt  instead  of 
tkirty-four." 

The  tenth-century  versions  are  found  in  the  Acta  Sanc- 
torum of  the  Bollandists.  They  give  both  the  acts  of 
the  soldier  and  those  of  the  centurion.  The  two  stories 
have  developed  along  different  lines.  The  legend  of  the 
soldier  retains  the  conversion  by  miracles,  which  is  found 
also  in  the  centurion's  story.  Both  also  serve  in  Cappa- 
docia.  The  legend  of  Longinus  adds,  however,  still  other 
incidents  more  or  less  common  to  saints'  lives.  The  Bol- 
landists print  their  life  of  Longinus  ex  pluribus  perve- 
tustis  MSS.  However,  so  far  as  I  can  discover,  none  of 
these  MSS  is  older  than  the  tenth  century.^^ 

The  life  of  the  soldier  printed  by  the  Bollandists  is 
too  long  to  quote  in  full.     In  substance  it  runs  as  fol- 

37  Here  should  be  added  the  Irish  Martyrologies,  which  are 
not  included  in  the  table.  The  Martyrology  of  Oengus  the  Culdee 
(about  800  A.  D.),  Whitley  Stokes,  1905,  makes  brief  mention  of 

Longinus: 

X  cal.  Novem'bris  (p.  218). 

Escomlud  Longini   dond   rig-  "The  departure  of  Longinus 

flaith  as  dixu:  geguin,  gnfm  as      to  the  Kingdom  that  is  high- 
tiaisliu,  toeb  Sn  aiaind  Issu.  est;   he  wounded — deed  that  is 

noblest! — Jesus'     splendid     de- 
lightful side." 

Cf.   Oengus,  p.   226.     Notice  also  Martyrology  of  Gorman,  W. 
Stokes,  1895.     (By  an  Irish  abbot,  latter  part  of  the  twelfth  cent.) 
15  Mar. 

Longinus  or  gonad  "Longinus    by    whose    cruel 

Crist  i  croich  do  chrfladgha       spear  Christ  was  wounded  on 
Ba  col  cen  a  choemna.  the  cross:   'twas  a  sin  without 

(any)  defence  thereof." 

38  In  the  Analecta  Bollandia,  where  MSS  containing  the  Longi- 
nus story  are  cited,  several  are  mentioned  as  edited  in  the  Acta 
Sanctorum,  March  II,  pp.  384-386  (which  includes  the  Acta  8. 
Longinii  Milites.)  These  are:  (1)  Civit.  Carnotensis,  cod.  144, 
saec.  X,   777   Passio  Sancti   Longini  Martyris   die  XXII   mensis 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TRADITION  17 

lows:  Longinus,  a  soldier  sent  by  Pilate,  pierced  the 
side  of  Christ,  and  when  he  saw  the  sun  obscured  and 
the  earth  quake,  believed  in  Jesus  Christ  and  exclaimed 
with  a  loud  voice:  Vere  filius  Dei  est  hie.  He  was  in- 
structed by  the  apostles,  and  went  into  Caesarea  in  Cap- 
padocia,  where  he  led  a  quiet  life  twenty-eight  years,  con- 
verting many.  When  word  of  his  success  came  to  Octa- 
vius,  the  emperor  sent  for  Longinus,  and  asked  him  who 
he  was.  Longinus  responded,  "Christiamis  sum."  Asked 
his  province,  he  answered  "Isauria."  When  asked  if  he 
was  free,  he  replied  that  he  had  been  a  slave  to  sin,  but  had 
been  released  by  the  mercy  of  Christ.  Octavius  urged 
him  to  worship  the  Roman  gods,  but  Longinus  responded 
that  his  God  was  one  of  sobriety  and  righteousness,  but 
those  of  Octavius  were  gods  of  iniquity,  and  that  he  could 
not  serve  two  masters.  Though  Ociavius  had  Longinus's 
tongue  cut  out,  and  his  teeth  knocked  out,  Longinus  con- 
tinued to  speak.  Longinus  cast  devils  out  of  idols  and 
broke  their  altars.  Recognizing  Longinus,  the  devils  con- 
fessed that  they  knew  his  Grod  to  be  the  true  one.  When 
asked  why  they  had  chosen  such  resting-places,  they 
gave  as  a  reason  that  those  idols  had  never  been  blessed, 
nor  had  they  had  the  sign  of  the  cross  made  on  them. 
Many  of  the  people  believed ;  but  Octavius,  Avhose  heart 
the  devil  had  corrupted,  accused  Longinus  of  having  used 
magic   arts.      Aplirodisius  told   Octavius   that   Longinus 

novembris,  hoc  est  X  Kalendarum  decembris  (fol.  260r-261v), 
t.  VIII,  p.  134.  (2)  Civit.  Carnotensis,  cod.  204,  29°;  here  the  day 
is  given  as  idus  Martii,  t.  VIII,  p.  184.  (3)  Bibl.  Publ.  et  Acad. 
Gandavensis,  cod.  245  (writing  XII  and  XIII  cent.),  pp.  198-203,  t. 
Ill,  p.  179.  (4)  De  Magno  Legendario  Austriaco,  S.  Longini  Mart., 
var.  MSS.  Exemplar  Sancrucense,  XIII  saec;  Exempl.  Campilili- 
ense,  XV  saec;  Exempl.  Admuntense,  XIII  saec,  t.  XVII,  p.  50. 
(5)  Bibl.  Publ.  Clvit.  et  Acad.  Leodiensis,  cod.  58,  XIV  saec.  (?) 
(fol.  152v-154r),  t.  V,  p.  339.  (6)  Bibl.  privatae  Caes£:via  Austri- 
aci,  cod.  9394,  XV  saec  (fol.  148-9),  t.  XIV,  p.  259. 


18  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

■was  right  and  his  God  the  true  one,  and  in  consequence 
Aphrodisius's  tongue  was  cut  out.  Thereupon,  at  the 
prayer  of  Longinus,  the  Lord  punished  Octavius  bj  strik- 
ing him  blind.  After  Longinus  had  suffered  martyrdom, 
Octavius  repented  and  received  his  sight.^^ 

The  life  of  the  centurion  Longinus,  printed  by  the 
Bollandists,  is  professedly  taken  from  Hesychius/"  Til- 
lemont  comments  with  irony  on  the  statement  made  by 
the  Bollandists  that  all  the  Greek  lives  of  Longinus  are 
drawn  from  Hesychius,  and  especially  that  that  of  Meta- 
phrastes  has  Hesychius  as  its  source;  he  expresses  ab- 
solute doubt,  saying  it  is  a  history  that  contains  few 
facts  and  many  words  in  the  style  of  Metaphrastes.*^ 

The  Greek  story  as  found  in  Hesychius  and  Meta- 
phrastes  is  as  follows :  Longinus,  the  centurion,  is  sent 
to  serve  at  the  sepulchre  of  Christ,  He  believes  in  Jesus 
through  wonders,  renounces  his  military  service,  and 
with  two  companions  retires  to  his  father's  home  at  Tyania 
in  Cappadocia,  There  he  is  beheaded  by  messengers  of 
Pilate,  and  his  head  is  taken  by  them  to  Jerusalem, 
where  it  is  thrown  outside  into  a  refuse  heap,  A  blind 
woman  comes  to  Jerusalem  from  Cappadocia  with  her 
only  son.  Her  son  dies,  and  she  mourns  her  misfortune. 
Longinus  appears  to  her,  and  tells  her  that  if  she  will 
find  and  bury  his  head,  he  will  bring  her  son  to  glory. 
She  does  soj  and  is  rewarded  with  sight,  and  a  vision  of 

39  Acta  88.  15  Mart.  t.  II,  384-86.  Cf.  Bibl.  Hagiog.  Latina, 
Brussels,  1900-1901. 

40  Acta  88.  Mart.  II,  736-39,  (MS  Vatic.  1190).  Patrol.  Gr. 
XCIII,  1545-60;  cf.  Metaphrastes,  Patrol.  Gr.  CXV,  31,  (MS  Paris 
774).     Cf.  Bibl.  Hagiog.  Graeca,  Brussels,  1895. 

41  Tillemont,  M^moires  pour  servir  a  UHistoire  Ecclesiastique, 
Paris,  1693,  I,  note  XXXVIII,  p.  477  ff. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TBADITION  19 

lier  son  with  Longinus  in  Leaven.  She  buries  her  son 
and  Longinus's  head  together/^ 

A  curious  variant  of  the  last  part  of  this  story  is 
found  in  MS.  Paris  797,  from  which  it  is  printed  by  the 
EoUandists.  This  a,ccount  runs  as  follows:  A  widow, 
Christina  by  name,  was  possessed  by  a  wicked  spirit, 
which  tore  her  cruelly.  Longinus  appeared  to  her  with- 
out his  head,  and  told  her  to  go  to  Jerusalem,  to  the 
house  of  the  Prefect  Lucian,  to  seek  the  head  of  Longi- 
nus the  centurion,  and  to  replace  it  with  his  body;  say- 
ing that  if  she  did  so,  she  should  be  made  well  and  her 
son  should  be  taken  into  his  military  service.  Christina 
started  on  her  way.  When  she  came  to  the  tomb  of  the 
saint,  she  cried  out,  and  a  voice  told  her  that  Christ 
would  be  her  helper.  She  obtained  the  head  from  Lu- 
cian, the  Prefect,  for  which  she  paid  him  two  hundred 
denarii.  She  and  her  son  took  the  head  to  the  tomb, 
which  opened  with  a  great  light.  After  the  youth  had 
replaced  the  head,  it  was  as  if  it  had  never  been  cut  off. 

Longinus  appeared  to  Christina  that  night,  told  her 
she  should  have  her  health  restored,  and  asked  her  to 
choose  which  she  preferred  for  her  son — earthly  or  heav- 
enly service.^^      She   chose  heavenly  service.      The  next 

42  Cf.  Le  Synaxaire  Arabe  Jacobite,  5tli  Hatour  (1st  Nov.)  (Pa- 
trol. Orientalis,  pub.  and  trans,  by  Rene  Basset,  III,  Fasc.  3, 
252).  The  story  differs  slightly:  the  soldier,  who  had  borne  the 
order,  brought  the  head  to  Jerusalem,  and  gave  it  to  Pilate,  who 
showed  it  to  the  Jews,  thus  rejoicing  them,  and  had  it  interred  in 
a  "monticule"  outside  Jerusalem.  After  some  time  a  woman  ol 
Cappadocia  who  had  become  a  Christian  through  the  preaching  of 
Longinus,  and  who  had  wept  when  he  was  decapitated,  became 
blind  by  design  of  God.  She  went  to  Jerusalem  to  pray  at  the 
sacred  monument  in  the  hope  of  regaining  her  sight,  etc. 

43  Cf.  G.  H.  Gerould,  on  the  Eustace  Legend,  PMLA.,  XIX, 
351.  He  traces  to  Armenian  legend  the  choice  given  man  be- 
tween good  fortune  in  youth  and  good  fortune  in  age.  Eustace 
chooses  between  trial  in  this  life  and  sorrow  in  the  next;   Sir 


20  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

day,  accordingly,  Longiniis  appeared  to  the  son  in  the 
vineyard,  and  told  him  to  follow  his  name,  Christian, 
and  be  a  soldier  of  Christ,  ^Notwithstanding  her  choice, 
when  the  mother  found  her  son  dead,  she  was  overcome 
with  grief.  She  was  comforted,  however,  by  an  angel. 
She  then  went  to  Paphnutius,  the  bishop  of  Tyania,  and 
told  him  her  story.  They  buried  the  son  with  Longinus. 
In  a  vision  Christina  was  shown  her  son  in  heaven  with 
Longinus.  After  a  life  of  service,  she  died  and  was 
buried  in  the  tomb  of  Longinus. 

That  this  story  of  the  head  was  important  in  the  East, 
is  shown  by  the  fact  that  in  the  Oriental  church  the  find- 
ing of  the  head  of  Longinus  is  celebrated  on  a  separate 
day.  Two  days  are  given  in  the  calendar:  23  Abib 
(July)  Certamen  sancti  Longini  Cappadocis  Centurionis 
qui  lafus  Christi  lancea  trans fodit  Caesareae  suh  Tiberio 
imperatore,**  and  the  5  Hatur  (iN'ovember)  Inventio, 
Capitis  Sancti  Longini  militis,  qui  Christi  latus  apeimit^^ 
The  two  feast  days  were  later  probably  joined,  just  as 
were  the  two  festivals  of  the  Exaltation  and  of  the  In- 
vention of  the  Cross,  also  originally  two  distinct  feasts. 

From  the  martyrologies,  too,  one  would  conclude  that 
the  story  of  the  centurion  developed  first.  The  legend  of 
the  soldier  was  enlarged  by  additions  from  the  story  of 
the  centurion.  It  is  to  be  noted  that  even  so  late  as  the 
tenth  century,  the  martyrologies  give  no  suggestion  of 
the  blindness  of  Longinus  himself,  though  he  is  con- 
cerned in  the  healing  of  others  who  are  blind — the  judge 
certainly,  and  perhaps  also  the  widow.     Of  the  two  types 

Ysumbras  between  poverty  and  woe  in  youth  and  in  old  age; 
Der  Graf  von  Savoien  between  eternal  sorrow  and  earthly  woe 
for  ten  years. 

44  Mai,  Coptic  Martyrologlum,  Codex  Arab.  Bibl.  Vat.  LXIII,  18. 

i^Ibid.,  Codex  62.  Cf.  Assemani,  Bibl.  Med.  Cat.  Flor.,  Flor. 
1742,  p.  164.    Arabic  Martyrology,  185,  XXIII  Abibo,  S.  Longini. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL    TKADITION  21 

of  the  story  of  the  "invention"  of  the  head,  it  seems  likely 
that  the  earlier  was  the  Christina  story,  and  that  at  first 
the  woman  was  possessed  by  a  demon,  but  that  after- 
ward, through  the  influence  of  the  story  of  the  soldier, 
her  trouble  took  the  form  of  blindness,  a  disease  that 
would  be  peculiarly  suitable  for  Longinus  to  heal. 

Even  as  late  as  the  thirteenth  century  the  Legenda 
Aurea  speaks  with  some  doubt  of  the  blindness  of  Lon- 
ginus. ^^  Since  this  is  the  version  usually  referred  to  as 
the  source  of  the  Longinus  story  in  the  Middle  Ages,  I 
quote  the  text  in  full : 

Longinus  fuit  quidam  centurio,  qui  cum  aliis  militibus  cruel 
domini  adstans  jussu  Pylati  latus  domini  lancea  perforavit  et 
videns  signa,  quae  fiebant,  solem  scilicet  obscuratum  et  terrae 
motum  in  Christum  credidit.  Maxime  ex  eo,  ut  quidam  dicunt, 
quod  cum  ex  infirmitate  vel  senectute  oculi  ejus  caligassent,  de 
sanguine  Christi  per  lanceam  decurrente  fortuito  oculos  sues 
tetigit  et  protinus  clare  vidit.  Unde  renuntians  militiae  et  ab 
apostolis  instructus  in  Caesaria  Capadociae  viginti  octo  annis 
monasticam  vitam  duxit  et  verbo  et  exemplo  ad  fidem  multos 
convertit.  Cum  autem  a  praeside  tentus  fuisset  et  sacriticare 
nollet,  jussit  praeses  omnes  dentes  ejus  excuti  et  linguam  abscidi, 
Longinus  tamen  ex  hoc  loquelam  non  perdidit,  sed  accepta  securi 
omnia  ydola  comminuit  et  f regit  dicens:  si  dii  sunt,  vide- 
bimus.  Daemones  autem  de  ydolis  exeuntes  in  praesidem  et 
in  omnes  socios  ejus  intraverunt  et  insanientes  et  latrantes  se 
Longini  pedibus  prostraverunt  et  ait  Longinus  daemonibus:  cur 
habitatis  in  ydolis?  Qui  responderunt:  ubi  Christus  non  nomi- 
natur  et  ejus  signum  non  est  positum,  ibi  est  habitatio  nostra. 
Cum  ergo  praeses  insaniret  et  oculos  amisisset,  dixit  ei  Longinus; 
scito  quia  sanari  non  poteris,  nisi  quando  ne  occideris;  quam  cito 
enim  a  te  mortuus  fuero,  pro  te  orabo  et  sanitatem  tibi  corporis 
et  animae  impetrabo.  Et  statim  eum  decollari  jussit;  post  hoc 
abiit  ad  corpus  ejus  et  prostratus  cum  lacrimis  poenitentiam 
egit;  et  continue  visum  recepit  et  sanitatem  et  in  bonis  operibus 
vitam  finivit.47 

46  The  blindness  was  shown  in  art  by  the  eighth  or  ninth  cen- 
tury.    Cf.  p.  48. 

47Voragine,  ed.  Graesse,  3d,  1890,  cap.  XLVII,  202. 


22  the  legea^d  of  longinus 

§4.     Otpier  Writers 

Other  means  for  distributing  the  story  of  Longinus 
that  were  probably  no  less  influential  than  the  martyr- 
ologies  are  to  be  noted.  Such  writers  as  Petrus  Comes- 
tor  in  the  twelfth  centuiy,  Vincent  de  Beauvais  in  the 
thirteenth,  and  Cardinal  Bonaventura  and  Ludolphus  de 
Saxonia  in  the  fourteenth,  all  include  Longinus,  giving 
the  story  of  his  miraculous  healing  in  connection  with 
the  history  of  the  passion  of  Christ ;  and  sometimes,  as 
in  the  case  of  Vincent,  adding  also  the  sufferings  and 
martyrdom  of  St.  Longinus.^* 

The  first  of  these  accounts,  that  in  the  Historia  ScJio- 
lastica  of  Petrus  Comestor,  is  very  brief;  indeed,  the 
name  of  Longinus  is  not  mentioned.  There  are,  supple- 
menting the  gospel  account  of  the  piercing  of  the  side 

48  Numerous  unpublished  martyrologies  also  exist,  which  con- 
tain the  story  of  Longinus.  As  far  as  I  have  examined  them,  I 
have  found  no  new  type  of  the  legend.  A  few  of  these  are:  Bibl. 
Bodl.  Catol.  Codd.  Graeci.  Codicis  Miscell.  No.  137  (XI  ssec.) 
which  includes  Longinus  in  the  Martyrology  for  October.  The 
story  follows  the  Metaphrastes  version.  Cf.  also  Trin.  Coll. 
Cambr.  MS  210  (ssec.  XI?),  no.  13,  fol.  92;  Trin.  Coll.  Cambr.  MS 
198  (XII-XIII  ssec.)  no.  11,  fol.  77;  and  British  Mus.  Addit.  MS 
36654,  A.  D.  1103,  no.  13.  Besides  these  Greek  texts,  there  are: 
Rawl.  MS  C.  440  (sasc.  XII  exeuntis),  no.  15,  fol.  176b,  Passio  S. 
Longini  martyris,  which  follows  the  Bollandist  centurion  type; 
MS  Vespasian  B.  10,  fol.  21b;  Harl.  2802,  Passionale,  (1464), 
Longini  no.  285;  Harl.  3545,  Legendarium  Sanctorum  (XV  cent.) 
fol.  272;  Addit.  6524,  French  (XIV  cent.)  fol.  51b.  A  few  others 
make  Longinus  the  soldier;  in  Arundell  MS  330  (XIV  ssec),  he  is 
a  soldier,  though  not  blind,  and  his  ministry  follows  the  usual 
form;  in  Sloan  MS  (XIV  ssec.)  no.  2478,  fol.  10b,  his  blindness  is 
healed,  but  the  account  is  condensed;  in  Trin.  Coll.  Cambr.  316 
(B.  14,  31)  (XV  cent.)  no.  24,  his  blindness  is  healed,  his  ministry 
and  martyrdom  follow  the  usual  types.  Cf.  also  Cambr.  Univ. 
K.  K.  1.22  MS  (early  XIV  cent),  Martyrologium,  and  MS  Liturg. 
Bodl.  333  (1468),  Longinus  15  Mar.  the  usual  soldier  type. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL,    TKADITION  23 

of  Jesus,  a  few  words  referring  to  the  enre  of  the 
soldier's  blindness:  "et  qui  lanceavit  eum,  ut  tradunt 
quidam,  cum  fere  caligassent  oculi  ejus,  et  casu  teti- 
gisset  oculos  sanguine  ejus,  clare  videt."*^ 

In  his  Speculum  Historiale,  Vincent,  under  De  TJul- 
nere  domini  lateris,  in  his  gloss  cites  Comestor,  and  in 
his  text  quotes  from  Comestor  the  passage  given  above. 
To  the  extract  he  adds  the  following:  "Ex  gestis  eius 
Protinus  illuminatus  in  Christus  credidit.  Unde  mili- 
tie  cedens  instructus  ab  apostolis :  in  Cesarea  Capadocie 
XXXVIII  annis  monachicam  vitam  duxit  &  in  omni 
sanctitate  permanens  verbo  &  exemplo  plurimos  ad  Chris- 
tum conuertit."^*'  In  his  next  chapter  Vincent  gives  the 
life  of  Longinus,  De  Martyrio  eiusdem  longini  militis. 
It  is  unnecessary  to  quote  this,  since  it  follows  closely 
the  form  of  the  story  found  in  the  BoUandist  acts  of  the 
soldier. 

In  the  Meditationes  vitae  Christi,  found  in  the  earlier 
editions  of  St.  Bonaventura's  -works,"  but  no  longer  thought 
toi  be  of  his  composition,^^  reference  to  the  legend  of  Lon- 
ginus appears  in  the  form  of  a  lament  of  the  Virgin. 
With  John,  the  Magdalen,  and  her  sisters,  Mary  stands 
under  the  Cross  lamenting.     With  a  great  noise  wicked 

49  Migne,  Pair.  CXCVIII  cols.,  1633,  1634. 

50  Lib.  VII,  cap.  xlvi. 

51  Sancti  Bonaventurae  .  .  .  Opera,  London,  1668. 

52  Dr.  H.  Traver  considers  Cardinal  Bonaventura  of  Padua  to 
be  the  author.  For  discussion  of  her  authorities,  see  The  Four 
Daughters  of  God,  Bryn  Mawr,  1907,  p.  41,  note  2.  The  question 
of  authorship  appears  to  be  unsettled.  Peltier  (Bonaventurae 
Opera,  Parisiis,  Besangon,  1864-71,  XII,  p.  xlii)  holds  that  the 
work  is  not  that  of  the  "seraphic  doctor,"  nor  that  of  Bonaven- 
tura of  Padua,  but  of  a  Franciscan  of  San  Gimignano  in  Tuscany 
or  the  neighborhood,  perhaps  Joannes  de  Caulibus.  Cf.  also  L.  F. 
Powell,  introductory  note  to  Nicliolas  Love's  Mirrour  of  the 
Blessed  Life  of  Jesus  Christ,  Oxford,  1908. 


24  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

men  came  and  break  the  bones  of  the  thieves.  When 
they  turn  to  Jesus,  Mary  implores  them  to  have  mercy, 
telling  them  that  Jesus  is  already  dead,  but  "unus  autem 
Longinus  nomine,  tunc  impius,  &  superbus,  sed  post 
conuersus,  &  martyr,  &  sanctus,  porrigens  lanceam  de 
longe,  eorum  preces,  &  rogamina  contenuiens,  latus 
Domine  Jesu  dextrum  vulnere  grandi  aperuit  &  exiuit 
sanguis  &  aqua."  Mary  then  faints  in  the  arms  of  the 
Magdalen  and  her  companions. 

This  treatise  was  enormously  popular  in  the  Middle 
Ages.  Thien  comments  on  the  fact  that  it  was  trans- 
lated into  Swedish,  Danish,  Italian,  Catalan  and  Middle 
English. ^^  It  was  of  great  importance  in  English  lit- 
erature, being  translated  more  than  once.  There  is  also 
a  metrical  English  version.^* 

The  passage  quoted  above  from  the  Meditationes  as- 
cribed to  Bonaventura  reappears  almost  word  for  word 
in  the  Vita  Jesu  Christi  by  Ludolphus  of  Saxonia.  Odd- 
ly enough,  the  addition  made  by  Ludolphus  to  this  pas- 
sage reproduces  precisely  the  second  extract  already 
quoted  from  Vincent  de  Beauvais.  Though  he  gives 
marginal  references  to  his  authorities,  Ludolphus  makes 
no  acknowledgment  of  indebtedness  to  Bonaventura^"^  or 
to  Vincent.  This  treatise  by  Ludolphus  also  forms  the 
basis  of  a  Middle  English  life  of  Christ,  and  consequently 
is  of  special  interest. 

53  Tiber  die  Englischen  Marienklagen,  p.  11. 

54  Cf.  pp.  107,  108. 

55  Miss  Traver,  op.  cit.,  45,  who  takes  Bonaventura  of  Padua  to 
be  the  author  of  the  Meditationes,  thinks  Ludolphus  depended  on 
Bonaventura.  If  Joannes  de  Caulibus  is  the  author  of  the  Medi- 
tationes, the  question  of  dependence  becomes  more  difficult — 
since  the  only  date  given  for  Joannes  is  1376,  (see  Chevalier,  Rep. 
des  Sources  Hist,  du  Moyen  Age,  who  follows  Wadding),  and 
Ludolphus  died  in  1378. 


THE    BIBLE    AND    ECCLESIASTICAL,    TRADITION  25 

The  writers  last  mentioned  add  nothing  to  the  de- 
velopment of  the  legend.  Looking  back  over  the  accounts 
which  precede  them,  we  see  that  the  record  furnished  by 
pseudo-ecclesiastical  history  is  unsatisfactory.  We  learn 
from  it  that  apocryphal  details  were  attaching  themselves 
to  the  story  of  the  centurion  as  early  as  the  second  cen- 
tury; that  the  name  Longinus  was  applied  to  both  soldier 
and  centurion  in  the  fourth  century;  that  accounts  of  the 
ministry  and  martyrdom  of  the  centurion  also  came  into 
the  tradition  in  the  fourth  century,  and  were  recorded  in 
the  martyrologies  in  the  fifth,  or  sixth,  century  (Je- 
rome) ;  that  between  the  sixth  and  ninth  centuries  there 
was  little  growth — the  cruel  judge  struck  with  blind- 
ness being  the  only  addition;  that  by  the  tenth  century 
there  were  two  stories,  one  concerning  the  centurion,  and 
one,  the  soldier,  and  that  the  two  were  evidently  already 
confused,  containing,  as  they  both  do,  the  incidents  of 
conversion  by  earthquake,  and  service  and  martyrdom  in 
Cappadocia;  and  finally  that  even  as  late  as  the  thir- 
teenth century,  the  church  accounts  express  doubt  on  the 
subject  of  the  blindness — the  episode  in  the  story  that 
appealed  most  strongly  to  the  people  of  the  time. 

The  first  question  that  suggests  itself  after  going 
through  this  mass  of  narration  is,  how  did  the  centurion 
and  soldier  become  confused  ?  It  is  probable  that  the 
soldier  who  pierced  the  side  of  Jesus  was  first  one  of  the 
soldiers  who  served  under  the  centurion  at  the  crucifixion, 
and  who  guarded  the  tomb.  In  the  incident  of  the  vere 
■filius  Dei,  originally  ascribed  to  the  centurion,  gradually 
the  soldiers  under  the  centurion  came  to  share,  and  finally, 
as  the  one  soldier  assumed  greater  prominence,  it  was 
transferred  to  him  alone.  The  stories  were  more  and  more 
confused.     Sometimes  the  soldier,  sometimes  the  centurion 


26  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

is  called  Longinus ;  sometimes  it  was  the  centurion  and 
again  it  was  the  soldier,  who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ. 

But  there  are  other  difficulties.  How  did  the  name 
Longinus  originate?  Why  did  the  legend  of  the  soldier 
become  the  more  popular,  absorbing  as  it  did  incidents 
from  the  life  of  the  centurion  ?  It  is  to  be  noticed  that 
the  incidents  not  so  appropriated — such  as  the  widow 
healed  of  her  blindness,  and  the  Christina  story — never 
got  into  literature  at  all. 


CHAPTEK  II 

THE  LEGEKD  OF  LONGINUS  A  FICTITIOUS 
IQ-AKRATIVE 

Ecclesiastical  history,  by  its  inconsistencies  and  by  its 
reluctance  to  accept  certain  popular  features  of  tlie  story 
of  Longinus,  such  as  that  of  his  blindness,  shows  that 
other  legend-forming  forces  were  at  work,  and  that  the 
accounts  found  in  the  martyrologies  record  only  the  re- 
sults— vague  but  more  or  less  final — of  this  myth-working 
process.  That  the  legend  of  Longinus  is  fictitious  is 
shown  by  the  examination  (1)  of  his  name  and  (2)  of  his 
acts,  or  his  life  as  saint  and  martyr. 

§1.     Kame 

Before  considering  the  possible  source  of  the  name  Lon- 
ginus— the  name  which  was  finally  attached  definitely  to 
the  saint  and  which  appears  in  all  literary  applications  of 
the  legend — we  may  note  the  fact  that  other  names  for- 
merly existed  for  the  centurion  and  for  the  soldier.  Ref- 
erence has  already  been  made  to  the  name  Petronius^  used 

1  A.  Stiilcken,  in  an  article  on  the  Gospel  of  Peter  in  Handhuch 
zu  den  Neutest.  Apocryphen,  Edgar  Hennecke,  1904,  p.  84,  remarks: 
"Der  Hauptmann  der  Grabeswache  hat  einen  Namen  bekommen: 
Petronius;  die  spatere  Legende  nennt  ihn  Longinus.  Diese — in 
einem  Fragment,  das  die  Namen  Jesus,  Golgotha,  usw.  nicht 
nennt — auffallige  Genauigkeit  im  Detail  weist  nicht  auf  Tradi- 
tion, sondern  auf  das  Bestreben,  den  Mangel  an  Tradition  durch 
scheinbar  intime  Kenntnis  zu  verdecken:  der  Hauptmann,  der 
nachher  selber  Zeuge  der  Auferstehung  wird,  muss  auch  schon  im 
apologetischen  Interesse  moglichst  genau  bezeichnet  werden.  Der 
Name  ist  wohl  in  Anklang  an  'Petrus'  gewahlt." 

3  27 


28  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

for  the  centurion  in  the  Gospel  of  Peter.  There  is  also  a 
more  or  less  indefinite  tradition  that  confuses  the  soldier 
who  pierced  the  side  of  Clii'ist  and  the  centurion  who  was 
converted  at  the  crucifixion,  with  that  other  centurion  who 
appeared  as  witness  in  the  examination  of  Jesus  before 
Pilate.  "Post  haec  quidam  centurio  dixit,  Ego  in  Caphar- 
naum  vidi  Jesum  et  rogavi  cum  dicens  Domine,  puer  meus, 
iacet  paralyticus  in  domo.  Et  dixit  mihi  Jesus,  Vade,  et 
sicut  credidisti  fiat  tibi.  Et  sanatus  est  puer  ex  ilia  hora."- 
The  name  of  this  centurion,  according  to  Fabricius,^  was 
C.  Oppius ;  he  was  a  Spaniard,  the  son  of  Caius  Cornelius 
and  the  father  of  C.  Oppius,  both  of  whom  were  also  cen- 
turions. He  was  the  first  of  all  the  Gentiles  who,  after 
the  death  of  Christ,  was  baptized  bj  the  Apostle  Barna- 
bas. He  afterwards  became  the  third  bishop  of  Milan. 
It  is  to  be  noted  in  this  connection  that  some  authori- 
ties state  that  Longinus,  who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ, 
was  knoAvn  before  his  conversion  as  Cassius.*  Profillet 
calls  the  centurion  Saint  Ctesiphon  (or,  without  explana- 
tion, "Abenadar,  le  centurion  du  Calvaire").  He  had 
been  ordained  bishop  at  Rome,  according  to  Profillet,  and 
was  sent  to  preach  the  word  in  Spain.^  Bede  calls  the 
soldier  Legorrius.*'  Xavier  says  the  name  should  be  Ina- 
tius  or  Ignatius.^     Again,  ]N'eale,  recently  and  without 

2  Tischendorf.     Latin  Gesta  Pilati,  chap.  VIII. 
SFabricius,  II  (1832),  note,  p.  982. 

4  J.  E.  Stadler,  Heiligen  Lexicon,  states  that  the  name  of  the 
soldier  Longinus  before  his  conversion  was  Cassius.  Profillet, 
Les  Saints  Militaires  (15  Mar.),  says  that  Cassius,  afterwards 
called  Longinus,  was  second  in  command  among  the  guards  at  the 
cross. 

5  Profillet,  Les  Saints  Militaires,  under  15  May.  He  says  Ctesi- 
phon can  not  be  identified  by  history. 

G  Collectaneis  Append.  Ill;   cf.  Douhet,  Diet,  des  legendes  du 
Christianisme,  Migne,  Encyc.  Theol.  ser.  Ill,  supp.  vol.  LIV. 
7  P.  Xavier,  Historica  Christi  Persice,  1639,  pars.  Ill,  489. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARRATIVE      29 

mentioning  his  source,  says:  "Not  many  illustrious  prel- 
ates have  adorned  this  see  (Caesarea  of  Cappadocia)  :  ,  .  . 
its  first  bishop  is  said  to  have  been  Saint  Primianus,  bet- 
ter known  by  the  name  of  Longinus,  the  soldier  who 
pierced  the  Saviour's  side  with  his  spear.*  Still  a  differ- 
ent form  of  the  name — though  in  this  case  only  a  corrup- 
tion of  Longinus — appears  in  a  late  vernacular  version  of 
Nicodemus's  Gospel  cited  by  Thilo:  "And  then  the  Jews 
commanded  that  a  knight  should  be  brought  forth,  whose 
name  was  Logenious ;  and  this  Logenious  was  blind,  etc."® 
Of  the  same  sort  is  probably  the  "Longimus"  in  some  of 
the  Greek  texts  of  Nicodemus.^^ 

It  is  hardly  worth  while  to  pause  over  these  names; 
except  as  furnishing  further  evidence,  if  more  were 
needed,  as  to  the  contradictions  that  abound  in  regard  to 
the  life  of  our  saint,  they  are  not  of  interest.  The  name 
by  which  he  is  always  known  in  literature  is  Longinus. 
The  explanation  generally  offered  is  that  the  spearman  de- 
rives his  name  from  the  Greek  '>^o'yxv,  lance,  used  in  John 
(XIX,  34) :  "Sed  unus  militum  lancea  latus  ejus 
aperuit.'"^ 

This  account  of  the  name  seems  entirely  probable ;  such 
origins  are  not  uncommon.    Eeiffenberg  mentions  others: 

8  J.  M.  Neale,  Hist.  Holy  Eastern  Church,  1850,  pp.  31,  32. 

9  Thilo.    Codex  Apoc.  Novi  Testam.     1832,  p.  cxlv. 

10  Cf.  p.  8. 

11  J.  Spiegelius,  Prudentius  Cathemerinon  (note  on  vulnus,  p. 
85):  "Auditi  aliud  magis  ridiculum,  in  Joannis  Evangelic  legi- 
tur — Nostri  Theologi,  sive  sono  vocabuli  Graeci  decepti,  ubi  apud 
GraecosX67X'^.  id  est  lancea  scriptum  est,  crediderunt  percussorem 
ilium  Longinum  esse  appellatum;  &  ita  in  ilium  hoc  nomine  excla- 
mantes  invehunter,  sive  divini  verbi  semiantores  Longinum  pro- 
prio  nomine  milite  ilium  appellant.  Non  miror  si  nos  ridemus: 
quoniam  &  diabolum  ipsum  &  ilium  que  isti  dicunt  Longinum, 
puto,  si  talia  audiunt,  maximos  risus  excitare." 


30  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

"N^oiis  Savons  qu'un  jeu  de  mots  a  sou  vent  produit  des 
effets  siirprenants,  que  Saint  Longin,  Sainte  Veronique, 
Saint  Architriclin,  doivent  leur  existence  a  des  equivoques, 
a  une  espece  de  calemhourg  produits  par  I'ignorance,  que 
des  equivoques  ont  determine  les  offices  de  beaucoup 
d'autres."'^' 

Though  the  name  Longinus  may  easily  have  arisen  thus 
through  the  mere  blunder  of  a  translator,  another  possible 
explanation  must  also  be  considered.  In  the  Pseudo-Linus 
Passio  Sancti  Pauli  Apostoli,  the  three  soldiers  who  con- 
duct Paul  to  the  place  of  his  martyrdom,  are  converted  by 
him  on  the  way.  He  directs  them  to  go  the  next  morning 
to  the  place  where  his  body  lies  and  tells  them  they  will 
find  there  two  men,  Titus  and  Luke,  who  will  baptize 
them.  These  soldiers  are  known  as  Longinus,  Megistus, 
and  Acestus.^^  It  has  been  suggested  more  than  once  that 
the  name  Longinus  was  first  connected  with  the  soldier 
converted  at  the  execution  of  Paul,  and  that  it  was  after- 
wards transferred  to  the  centurion  f soldier)  converted  at 
the  crucifixion  of  Christ.^* 

The  date  of  the  Paul  story,  as  told  in  the  Pseudo-Linus 
Passio,  would  not  be  against  such  a  theory.  The  Passio 
is  a  fragment  and  belongs,  according  to  Lipsius  and 
Batiffol,^^   to   the   fifth   or   sixth   century.      But   accord- 

12  Chevalier  au  Cygne,  p.  xciv.  Cf.  H.  Etienne,  Apologie  pour 
H^rodote,  Lyons,  1592,  p.  573  ff. 

13  Lipsius  and  Bonnet,  Acta  Apostolorum  Apocrypha,  Lipsiae, 
1891.  Pars  Prior,  pp.  30,  32,  37,  39,  42,  113.  Also  Grk.  pp.  114, 
115,  116. 

14  Cf.  Bugge,  Studien  iider  die  Entstehung  die  nordischen  Got- 
ter  und  Heldcnsagen.  German  trans.,  0.  Brenner,  p.  39.  Dr. 
Hulme,  in  unpublished  notes  which  he  has  kindly  allowed  me  to 
use,  likewise  makes  this  suggestion. 

15  P.  Batiffol,  Vigoroux  Dictionnaire  de  la  Bible,  1895.  Acts 
of  Peter  and  Paul.  R.  A.  Lipsius,  Die  Apocryphen  Apostelge- 
schichten  u.  Apostellegenden,  II   (1887),  113. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NAKEATIVE      31 

ing  to  Lipsius,  the  Pseudo-Linus  has  as  source  Greek 
Acta,  fragments  of  which,  independent  of  the  Pseudo- 
Linus,  occur  elsewhere.  Lipsius  sees  in  these  acts  a 
Gnostic  work  of  the  second  half  of  the  second  century. 
He  thinks  it  possible  to  recognize  traces  of  tliis  primitive 
source  in  the  Pseudo-Linus  as  it  now  exists.  Tliat  he  con- 
siders the  Paul-Longinus  episode  a  part  of  the  early  acts, 
he  shows  in  his  discussion  of  the  use  made  by  Chrysostora 
of  these  earlier  acts.  In  speaking  of  the  version  used  by 
Chrysostom,  he  says:  "Der  von  Paulus  bekehrte  Kerken- 
meister,  ist  wol  eine  Keminiscenz  an  die  Geschichte  des 
Pseudo-Linus  von  der  Bekehrung  der  Prafecten  Longinus 
und  Megistus  und  des  Centurio  Cestus  oder  Acestus  .  •  . 
denen  E^ero  die  Bewachung  des  Gef  angenen  und  die  Volls- 
treckung  des  Todesurtheils  iibertragt."^® 

It  is  certainly  possible  that  the  writer  of  the  Acta 
Pilati  story  of  the  centurion  (in  this  case  it  could  not  be 
the  soldier  who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ,  for,  in  the  Acta 
Pilati,  the  soldier  is  not  converted)  may  simply  have 
transferred  the  name  Longinus  from  some  such  story  as 
this  of  Paul,  which  offers  the  parallel  of  the  conversion  of 
an  attendant  by  the  death  of  a  martyr.  The  question,  how- 
ever, can  hardly  be  settled  conclusively  without  more  evi- 
dence. A  fact  that  must  also  be  taken  into  account  is 
that,  according  to  the  Greek  text,  the  name  of  the  soldier 
who  guarded  St.  Paul,  was  not  Longinus,  but  A07709. 

§2.     The  Acts  oe  Life  of  Longinus 

If  this  multiplicity  of  names  does  not  speak  well  for 
the  historical  origin  of  Saint  Longinus,  the  number  of  Lon- 
ginuses  who  have  suffered  martyrdom  does  not  lessen  the 

i6/6id.,  II,  246. 


32  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

confusion.  It  has  already  been  shown  that  the  soldier  and 
the  centurion^^  have  been  confused.  It  seems  not  impos- 
sible that  incidents  from  the  lives  of  other  martyrs  also 
contributed  to  the  growing  story.  In  Migne's  Dictionnaire 
Hagiograpliique,  eight  martyrs  bearing  the  name  appear, 
the  last  in  the  sixth  century.  In  the  Petits  Bollandistes, 
there  are  also  eight,  two  of  whom  differ  from  those  in  the 
Migne  list.  Baronius  mentions  eleven  Longinuses ;  Cheva- 
lier, eight;  and  John  of  Ephesus,  one  not  included  by 
either  Baronius  or  Chevalier.  Some  of  these  derive  from 
our  Longinus  story;  others  perhaps  had  independent  ori- 
gin and  were  absorbed  by  it. 

I  enumerate  only  the  most  interesting  of  these  martyrs : 

(1)  The  Longinus  associated  with  Paul,  to  whom 
reference  has  already  been  made. 

(2)  Saint  Longinus,  soldier  and  martyr  at  Marseilles, 
who,  with  two  others,  guarded  Saint  Victor  in  prison.  All 
three  guards  were  converted  by  the  miraculous  light  that 
illuminated  the  prison  in  the  night.  Victor  took  them  to 
the  sea  and  baptized  them.  After  they  had  refused  to 
sacrifice  to  the  gods,  Maximian,  who  was  at  Marseilles, 
ordered  them  to  be  punished  with  death.  They  were  de- 
capitated the  21  July,  A.  D.  290.'^  Maury  tells  us  that 
the  facts  of  the  life  of  Saint  Victor  of  Marseilles  are 
drawn  from  those  of  Christ.  Victor,  in  his  opinion,  repre- 
sents Christ  triumphant,  victorious ;  he  adds :  "Ces  garde>5 
sont  au  nombre  de  trois,  nombre  mystique  qu'on  sup- 
posait  au  moyen  age  avoir  ete  celui  des  gardes  de  Jesus. 

iTAnd  possibly  a  second  centurion;  cf.  p.  28. 

18  Migne,  Diet.  Hagiog.;  Petits  Bollandistes;  Chevalier;  Rui- 
nart,  Acta  primorum  Martyrum  sincera  et  selecta,  XI,  p.  297; 
Tillemont,  M6moires  pour  servir  a  Vhistoire  Ecclcsiastique,  1701, 
IV,  p.  551. 


LEGEND    OF    I.ONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARRATIVE      33 

L'un   d'eux  se  nomme  Longin,   conune  un   de   ceux   du 
Christ."^' 

(3)  St.  Longinus,  who  suffered  martyrdom  at  Caes- 
area  in  Cappadocia  with  S.  Aphrodisius,  honored  by  the 
Greeks  1  September.^"  The  BoUandists  take  this  to  be 
the  Longinus  who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ.  As  various 
days  are  given  by  different  churches  for  the  celebration  of 
St.  Longinus,  this  identification  is  entirely  probable.^'" 

(4)  St.  Longinus,  a  soldier,  who  suffered  martyrdom 
at  Satales  in  Armenia,  with  ten  brothers,  soldiers  like  him- 
self. Emperor  Maximian,  because  they  refused  to  sacri- 
fice to  the  gods,  deprived  them  of  military  rank,  and  ex- 
iled them  to  various  places,  where  they  died  in  misery. 
They  are  honored  24  June.  Here  the  name  of  the  place, 
Satales,  is  similar  to  that  often  given  as  the  home  of  Lon- 
ginus who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ. ^^ 

(5)  Saint  Longinus,  who  suffered  martyrdom  with 
Saint  Eusebius  and  many  others.  They  were  beheaded 
after  suffering  cruel  torments,  during  the  persecution  of 
Diocletian,  and  are  celebrated  24  April.  The  names  and 
also  the  place  and  date  of  martyrdom  of  this  group  vary 
greatly.  Acta  Sanctorum,  24  April,  gives  as  martyred 
in  ISTicodemia  in  303 :  Eusebius,  ISTeonis,  Leontius, 
Longinus  and  four  others.  Baronius  gives  a  very 
similar    list    as    martyred    in    Perga    in    Pamphilia    in 

19  A.  Maury,  Croyances  et  Legendes  du  Moyen  Age,  1896,  p.  112. 

20  Die*.  Hagiog.;  BoUandists,  Acta.  8S.  1  Sept. 

21  Acta.  S8.  1  Sept. 

22  This  place-name  varies  greatly.  Tillemont  gives  Adrales  or 
Sandrales,  near  Tyania  in  Cappadocia;  a  Greek  MS  of  the  XI 
cent.  (MS  Bodl.  Misc.  137)  gives  Sandiale;  Hesychius,  Sand- 
rales.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the  BoUandist  Latin  Acts,  Longinus 
when  questioned  says  his  home  is  in  Isauria  in  Asia  Minor. 
In  Christus  Patiens,  he  is  from  the  Ansonians. 


34  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

305 :  Leontius,  Actius,  Alexander  and  six  others,  and 
also  Leontius  with  Eusebius,  ISTeone,  and  Longinus; 
also  in  Lycia:  Tlieodorus,  Oceanus,  Ammonianns,  Jnli- 
anus.^^  Bmt  in  308,  under  Constantine,  Baronius  has  this 
list  of  Martyrs:  Theodorus,  Oceanus,  Ammianus, 
Julianus,  Caritine,  Eusebius,  ISTeon,  Leontius,  Longinus.^* 
That  a  whole  group  of  martyrs  should  thus  be  assigtier) 
to  varying  years  and  places,  indicates  how  easily  such 
stories  grew.  That  this  Longinus  was  confused  with  the 
soldier  of  the  crucifixion,  the  Bollandists  show  in  their 
discussion:  "Michael  monachus,  canonicus  Capuanus, 
parte  4  Sanctuarii  Capuani,  edidit  quatuor  Kalendaria 
Sanctorum,  qui  Capuae  fuerunt  in  veneratione;  &  in 
horum  Kal.  tertio.  Thesauri  dicto,  atque  in  quarto  ejus 
Codicis,  qui  est  ordinarium  totius  anni,  proponitur  mem- 
oria  S.  Longini  Martyris:  proponitur  memoria  S.  Longini 
Martyris:  in  tertio  etiam  dicitur  celebrari  festum  cum 
tribus  lectionibus.  An  occasione  S.  Longini  Socii  SS. 
Eusebii,  ISTeonis  &  Leontii  Martynim  sit  introducta  dicta 
memoria,  nescimus.  At  lectiones  esse  de  Longino,  qui 
latus  Christi  aperuit,  &  exclamavit,  Vere  filius  Dei  est 
iste,  annotat  Michael.  Ista  vero  sunt  duo  rum,  quorum 
alter  Longinus  miles,  alter  Longinus  Centurio  fuit."^^ 

(6)  John  of  Ephesus  gives  an  account  of  Longinus 
(A.  D.  568),  chaplain  to  Pope  Theodosius,  and  mission- 
ary to  Nubia,  in  which  the  following  suggestive  incident 
appears.  When  Longinus  went  from  the  Nubians  to  the 
Alodaei,  he  had  to  pass  through  the  unfriendly  land  of 

23  A?maZes  EccUsiast.  Ill,  398. 

24  Op.  cit.,  p.  455. 

25  Cf.  J.  E.  Stadler,  Heiligen  Lexikon,  S.  Longinus  (24  Apr.) 
ein  Martyrer  in  Nikomedia,  dessen  Haupt  in  Capua  verehrt  wird, 
und  den  Einige  irrig  fiir  den  hi.  Seiteneioffner  Longinus  h^lten, 
was  wohl  auch  anderswo  geschah." 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARRATIVE      35 

the  Maparitae,  "and  when  their  King  heard  that  Longinns 
had  started  on  his  journey,  Satan  in  his  envy  stirred  him 
up  to  set  watchers  in  all  the  passes  of  his  kingdom  on 
the  roads,  both  in  the  mountains  and  in  the  plains,  as  far 
as  the  Sea  of  Weeds,  in  hopes  of  arresting  Longinus,  and 
so  hindering  the  salvation  of  the  powerful  people  of  the 
Alodaei.  But  God  preserved  him,  and  blinded  the  eyes 
of  those  who  wanted  to  seize  him;  and  he  passed  through 
them,  and  went  on  his  way  and  they  saw  him  not."^®  The 
parallel  here  seen,  though  slight,  is  perhaps  worth  noting ; 
the  enemies  of  Longinus  are  blinded  by  God,  just  as  the 
cruel  judge  who  is  persecuting  Longinus  is  blinded. 

Several  facts  in  the  complete  Longinus  legend  may  have 
been  derived  from  these  varying  accounts.  First  and  most 
important,  the  name  Longinus  itself  was  possibly  used 
for  the  guard  of  Paul  before  it  was  so  employed  for  the 
centurion,  sometimes  the  guard  at  the  tomb,  in  the  cruci- 
fixion story.  If  Bede's  statement  that  the  soldier's  name 
was  Legorrius  be  accepted  as  preserving  ancient  tradition, 
it  may  be  that  confusion  arose  because  of  the  resemblance 
of  the  two  names,  or  that  some  one,  knowing  the  stories  of 
the  two  soldiers — both  miraculously  converted  by  the 
spectacle  of  a  martyr's  death — attached  unintentionally 
the  name  of  one  to  the  other.  It  is  much  more  likely  that 
Bede's  name  is  a  corruption,  due  to  the  lack  of  definite 
information  about  St.  Longinus.  However  this  may  be, 
whether  the  name  was  first  obtained  by  adoption  or  con- 
fusion, the  supposed  derivation  of  the  word — its  sig- 
nificance as  spearman  or  lance-bearer — ^vould  be  enough 
to  make  the  attachment  permanent.  In  addition  to  the 
name,  the  commanding  of  the  saint  to  worship  images  may 

2QHist.   of  the  Church,  trans,   by  R.   Payne   Smith,   1860,   pp. 
319,  320. 


36  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

easily  be  obtained  from  these  stories,  as  may  also  tbe 
blinding  of  the  judge.  Too  much,  however,  must  not  be 
made  of  these  resemblances,  as  many  saints  were  com- 
manded to  worship  idols,  and  it  was  not  uncommon  for 
God  to  intei'pose  and  punish  those  who  were  tormenting 
Christians. 

Other  evidence  that  the  story  of  Longinus  is  manufac- 
tured, is  found  in  related  saints'  legends,  and  in  the  con- 
ventional character  of  some  of  the  incidents  that  enter 
into  its  making.  Le  Blant  has  called  attention  to  some  of 
these:  "II  est  evident  que  la  piece  est  supposee.  On  re- 
marquera  toutefois  que  I'auteur  en  a  caique  le  debut  sur 
des  actes  antiques  dont  elle  reproduit  en  cet  endroit  la 
forme.  J'y  retrouve  les  expressions  courantes  exhibere, 
vocare,  les  interrogations  relatives  a  la  condition,  a  la 
patrie,  et  la  reponse  typique  Christianus  sum.  C'est  a 
raison  de  cette  circonstance  que  je  crois  pouvoir  relever 
ici  plusieurs  termes  d'un  recit  manifestement  apocryphe."-^ 
This  response  occurs  in  the  earliest  martyrology  records. 
In  Eusebius's  History  of  Martyrs  in  Palestine/^  Epiph- 
anius  replied  in  the  same  way  to  the  governor.  In  the 
Coptic  life  of  St.  George,  the  same  answer  is  found. ^^ 
Eusebius  records,  too,  that  Romanus  was  condemned  by 
the  judge  to  be  burned,  but  the  sentence  was  altered  by 
the  Emperor  Diocletian,  and  his  tongue  was  cut  out  in- 
stead. Like  Longinus,  he  preached  without  his  tongue.^" 
Romanus  was  also  bidden  to  worship  idols,  paralleling  in 
this  another  detail  of  the  Longinus  story.     The  cruel  judge 

27  E.  Le  Blant,  Les  Actes  des  Martyrs,  1882,  p.  147. 

28  Ed.  Wm.  Cureton,  1861,  from  Syriac  MS  Brit.  Mus.  12150, 
A.  D.  411. 

29  E.  Amelineau,  Les  Actes  des  Martyrs  de  UEglise  Copte,  p. 
241.     The  Coptic  St.  George  was  condemned  by  Gelasius  in  494. 

30  Cureton,  op.  cit.,  p.  8. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARKATIVE      37 

is  found  in  all  the  accounts  by  Eusebius.  J.  A.  Kobinson, 
commenting  on  the  Passion  of  S.  Perpetua,  says:  "The 
old  story  was  lacking  in  the  one  feature  which  charac- 
terizes so  many  of  the  fictitious  narratives  of  martyrdoms, 
and  to  which  the  appellation  'Acta'  more  especially  re- 
fers. There  was  no  account  of  the  prolonged  controversy 
between  the  martyrs  and  the  cruel  or  the  kind-hearted 
judge. '"^  The  cruel  judge  appears  in  the  Longinus  story 
in  the  eighth  and  ninth  century  accounts. 

§3.     The  Blindness 

These  related  stories,  though  they  throw  light  upon  the 
sources  of  many  of  the  details  in  the  Longinus  legend, 
do  not  account  for  the  incident  that  became  of  utmost  im- 
portance in  the  literary  use  of  the  story  in  the  Middle 
Ages:  viz.,  the  blindness  of  Longinus  and  his  miraculous 
healing  by  the  blood  of  the  crucified  Christ. 

Tillemont  suggests  as  a  possible  explanation  that  the 
blindness  grew  out  of  the  account  given  of  Longinus  in 
Christus  Patiens  "mal  explique.'"^  Though  the  man  who 
pierced  the  side  of  Jesus  is  not  called  the  centurion,  the  in- 
cident is  much  the  same.  When  the  stream  of  blood  gushes 
from  the  side  of  Christ,  the  spearman,  amazed,  cries  out, 
"Verily,  this  dead  man  is  the  son  of  God."  He  then  falls 
before  the  cross,  and  anoints  his  head  in  the  flowing 
stream,  in  order,  as  it  seems,  to  have  purification.^^  This 
explanation   is   no   longer   possible   for   the    reason   that 

31  J.  A.  Robinson,  The  Passion  of  8.  Perpetua,  1891,  p.  15.  Rob- 
inson says  the  name  of  S.  Perpetua  is  given  in  the  Rom.  Calendar 
of  the  fourth  century.  The  MSS  at  present  known  are  not  earlier 
than  the  tenth  century. 

32  Mem.  pour  Servir  a  UHist.  EccUs.,  1693,  I,  note  xxxix. 

33  Ed.  J.  G.  Brambes,  1885,  11.  1071-1115. 


38  THE    LEGEI!?D    OF    EONGINUS 

the  old  passion  poem  is  not  now  thought  to  have  been 
written  in  the  fourth  century  by  Gregory  Nazienzen. 
Krumbacher  says  of  it:  "Das  einzige  uns  erhaltene 
Drama  der  byzantinischen  Zeit  ist  der  gewohnlich 
Xpio-rb^i  7rd(7')((ov  (Christus  patiens)  betitelte  Cento.  ISTach- 
dem  die  Meinung,  das  Werk  gehore  dem  Gregor  von 
]^azianz,  allgemein  aufgegeben  ist,  bleibt  der  Verfasser 
vorerst  unermittelt ;  sicher  ist  nur,  dass  er  in  einer  ganz 
spaten  zeit,  warscheinlieh  im  11  oder  12  Jahrhundert 
lebte."'* 

C.  Chabeneaiu,  after  quoting  John  XIX,  34-35 — "Sed 
unus  militum  lancea  latus  eius  aperuit  et  continuo  exivit 
sanguis  et  aqua,  Et  qui  videt,  testimonium  perhibuit, 
et  verum  est  testimonium  eius — comments:  "L'Evan- 
gile  ajoute:  Et  qui  videt  .  .  .  Seraient-ce  par  has- 
ard  ces  mots  lus  dans  un  texte  corrompu  et  mal  compris  qui 
seraient  la  source  premiere  de  la  fable  de  I'aveugle  Lon- 
gis  recouvrant  miraculeusement  la  vue  ?'"^  Kroner  ac- 
cepts the  conjecture  of  Chabeneau  as  a  satisfactory  so- 
lution of  the  difficulty,  and  attempts  elaborately  to  show 
how  the  mistake  probably  occurred.^^  This  explanation  is 
ingenious,  but  hardly  necessary.  Moreover,  there  is  no 
indication  of  such  corruption  in  any  available  text.^^ 

Kroner  remarks  further:  "Eine  dritte  Ansicht  ist  die 
folgende:  Longinus  sei  nicht  blind  gewesen,  und  wenn 
bei  ihm  von  Blindheit  die  Rede  sei,  so  sei  diese  doch  nur 

34  Geschiehte  der  byzantinischen  Litteratur,  1891,  p.  356.  Kro- 
ner (op.  cit.,  p.  28),  who  is  evidently  unacquainted  with  criticism 
on  the  subject,  cites  Christus  Patiens  as  the  earliest  literary  treat- 
ment of  the  Longinus  legend. 

35  Revue  des  langues  romanes,  1888,  IV,  405. 

36  Kroner,  op.  cit.,  p.  26. 

37  Cf.  Wordsworth,  Novum  Testamentum  Nostri  Jesu  Christi 
Latine,  Oxonii,  1895,  pp.  635,  636. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARRATIVE      39 

als  eine  geistige  Blindheit  aufzufassen.  Longinus  war 
ja  in  der  That  vor  seiner  Bekehrung  blind,  aber  diese 
Blindheit  ist  dann  identisch  mit  der  Blindheit,  der  Fins- 
ternis  des  Heidentums.  Nun,  das  kling-t  ja  ganz  schon, 
aber  est  ist  doch  sehr  fragwlirdig,  ob  man  dem  nngelehr- 
ten  Volke  soviel  Verstand  und  tJberlegung  zutrauen 
darf,  dass  es  in  solcher  Weise  von  einer  'geistigen  Blind- 
heit' ^sprechen  konnte.'  "^^  ^Notwithstanding  Kroner's 
objection,  it  was  common  in  the  Middle  Ages  to  speak  of 
spiritual  blindness  in  physical  terms,  and  in  more  than 
one  case  confusion  has  resulted.  Maury,  though  he  does 
not  mention  Longinus  in  this  connection,  illustrates  the 
point  by  numerous  examples.  "Un  paien,"  he  says,  "un 
pecheur  endurci  a-t-il  ete  illumine  des  lumieres  de 
I'fivangile  par  la  doctrine  de  Jesus,  suivant  le  language 
figure  de  la  foi  nouvelle,  il  a  ete  gueri  de  son  aveugle- 
ment.  Cette  confusion  de  I'expression  metaphorique  et 
du  sens  litteral  a  laisse,  j usque  dans  un  des  premiers 
monuments  de  I'antiquite  chretienne,  une  trace  irrecusa- 
ble. Dans  le  recit  de  la  conversion  de  Saint  Paul,  rap- 
porte  dans  les  Actes  des  Apotres  (Acts  IX,  10,  18)  aprcs 
avoir  dit  que  le  saint  apotre,  allant  combattre  la  religion 
naissante,  fut  tout  a  coup  eclaire  par  Dieu,  illumine  par 
un  trait  de  la  divine  clarte,  on  ajoute  qu'a  son  arrivee  a 
Damas,  des  eoailles  tomberent  de  ses  yeux  qu'elles  ob- 
scurcissaient  et  qu'il  recouvra  la  vue.  Or  ici,  dans  cette 
ciroonstanee,  rien  n'indique  que  Paul  ait  ete  aveugle,  au 
contraire  tout  temoigne  de  sa  parfaite  vision,  fividem- 
ment,  il  y  a  la  un  fait  ajoute  apres  coup,  par  un  legen- 
daire  ignorant  qui  aura  pris  au  sens  propre  la  clarte  qui 
a  illumine  I'apotre,  et  qui,  pour  rendre  le  miracle  plus 

38  Op.  cit.,  p.  25. 


40  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

frappant,  aura  suppose  cette  circonstance  ou  se  montrent 
tout  a  la  fois  son  ignorance  et  sa  fraude."^^ 

Saint  Odile  was  cured  of  blindness  by  baptism.  The 
legend  adds  that  the  saint  was  blinded  by  "la  folle  super- 
stition des  Gentils."^"  Again:  "Saint  Vincent  Ferrier 
rapporte  en  outre  un  miracle  bien  ridicule  dont  on  gros- 
sissait  encore  de  son  temps  toute  cette  fable  des  larrons. 
D'apres  ce  theologien,  le  bon  larron  Dismas  fut  gueri 
de  son  aveuglement  par  la  lumiere,  que  I'ombre  du  Sei- 
gneur porta  sur  lui.  Pierre  Damien  attribue  simplement 
la  conversion  de  ce  meme  Dismas  a  une  priere  de  la 
Vierge,  qui  reconnut  en  lui  un  de  ceux  entre  les  mains 
desquels  elle  etait  tombee  en  allant  en  figypte.  II  est 
aise  de  voir  que  le  fait  rapporte  par  Saint  Vincent  Fer- 
rier,  doit  sa  naissance  a  la  double  acception  du  mot  lu- 
miere, mot  qui  a  ete  pris  du  sens  figure  au  sens  physique."*^ 

A  similar  confusion  is  seen  in  the  Bohairic  accounts 
of  The  Falling  Asleep  of  Mary.  When  the  Apostles  were 
taking  the  body  of  IMary  to  burial,  they  were  attacked  by 
the  Jews,  who  wished  to  burn  the  body : 

"And  the  lawless  Jews,  when  they  approached  the  bier,  a  mist 
and  a  darkness  came  upon  them;  they  became  blind,  and  there 
was  no  one  to  lead  them  by  the  hand  .  .  .  even  as  the  Holy 
Ghost  said  by  the  mouth  of  David  the  prophet  in  the  eighty-first 
Psalm,  'They  knew  not,  neither  did  they  understand;  they  go  in 
darkness'  .  .  .  Then  they  cried  out,  saying,  woe  to  us,  O 
our  Master  Christ,  for  we  have  sinned  against  heaven,  and 
before  thee.  Forgive  us,  for  we  are  children  of  Abraham.  It 
Thou  givest  us  the  light  of  our  eyes,  we  will  know  the  glory  ot 
Thy  Godhead,  and  we  will  believe  on  Thee  and  on  Thy  virgin 
mother;  for  she  is  our  sister.    Now  when  they  said  these  things, 

39  Essai  sur  les  Lcgendes  Pieuses  du  Moyen  Age,  pp.  154,  155. 

40  Ibid.,  p.  156. 

41  Ibid.,  p.  290. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    NARRATIVE      41 

Christ  was  moved  unto  compassion  for  them,  and  set  them  free 
from  their  blindness  and  their  error."42 

The  tendency  in  the  Middle  Ages  was  to  make  all  sym- 
bolical representation  real  and  literal.  This  was  espe- 
cially true  of  the  Passion.  The  theological  idea  that  no 
drop  of  the  sacred  blood  was  lost  is  shown  in  the  pictures 
of  the  time  by  angels  holding  cups  under  the  wounds. 
The  idea  that  Christ  overcame  death  may  likewise  be  indi- 
cated by  the  representation  of  a  skull  at  the  foot  of  the 
cross.*' 

This  same  effort  to  make  the  symbolical  tangible  is 
shown  in  the  change  of  qualities  to  people.  "Le  double 
sens  d'un  nom  a  souvent  suffi.  Ne  penetrant  jamais  au 
fond  de  la  signification  d'un  mot,  le  peuple  s'est  souvent 
arrete  a  sa  signification  apparente  et  les  legendes  nees 
de  ces  malentendus  sont  sans  nombre.  II  suffit  de  citer 
sainte  Sophie,  sainte  Foy,  sainte  Esperance  et  sainte 
Charite  qui,  de  vertues  abstraites,  sont  devenues  des 
saintes  reelles.  .  .  .  L'eglise  de  S.  Sophie  fut  con- 
sacree  par  Constantin  a  la  sagesse  divine  .  .  .  Mais  le 
peuple  en  fit  une  sainte  et  Constantinople  pretendait  en 
posseder  le  tombeau : 

A  la  tombe  saincte  Souphye 

Ki  fu  virgene  de  bonne  vie.     {Roman  de  Mahomet) 

Le  nom  de  S.  Luce  est  forme  du  mot  lux,  lumiere,  et  oeil 

42  Forbes  Robinson,  Coptic  Apocryphal  Gospels,  Texts  and  Stud- 
ies, vol.  IV  (1896),  119.  From  MS  Vat.  LXI.  Robinson  does 
not  date  the  MS.  He  says  the  colophon  following  this  piece  gives 
the  year  678  of  the  martyrs,  but  this  date  may  belong  to  what 
follows  instead  of  to  what  precedes.  The  other  versions  are 
printed  from  MSS  that  he  does  not  date  earlier  than  the  tenth 
century. 

43  Cf.  Maury,  op.  cit.,  p.  289. 


42  THE    LECE^^D    OF    LOXGINUS 

dans  le  style  poetique.  Cette  etymologie  explique  pour- 
quoi  la  croyance  populaire  disait  qu'on  avoit  dans  son 
martjre  brule  les  yeux  a  cette  sainte  et  pourquoi  on 
I'invoquait  pour  les  maux  d'yeux."** 

From  tkese  examples,  it  is  easy  to  see  how  frequently 
in  the  case  of  a  saint,  physical  blindness  was  established 
on  no  better  evidence  than  that  he  had  passed  from  dark- 
ness to  light  upon  his  conversion  to  belief  in  Christ. 
When  one  considers  these  specific  illustrations  of  change 
from  spiritual  to  physical  blindness,  in  the  light  of  the 
general  tendency  of  the  Middle  Ages  to  make  everything 
objective,  to  leave  nothing  without  literal  presentation, 
it  is  no  longer  difficult  to  account  for  the  blindness  of 
Longinus. 

The  healing  of  Longinus  by  blood  is  likewise  not  "with- 
out parallel.  Blindness  was  often  healed  by  blood.  In 
one  of  the  stories  in  the  Seven  Sages  of  Rome  (the  tale  of 
Sapientes)  the  king  was  blinded  by  heaven,  in  punishment 
for  the  bad  government  of  the  seven  sages.  By  the  advice 
of  a  child,  the  king  decapitated  the  seven  sages  and  re- 
gained his  sight.*^  Saint  Perpetua  was  healed  of  blind- 
ness by  the  blood  of  Paul.  Saint  Christopher  blinded  the 
judge  who  was  causing  his  suffering  by  miraculously  turn- 
ing the  arrow.  The  judge,  follomng  the  advice  of  Chris- 
topher, anointed  his  eye  with  the  blood  shed  by  the  martyr 
at  the  time  of  his  death,*®  was  cured  and  became  a  Chris- 
tian.*^    In  Lovelich's  History  of  the  Holy  Grail/^  N^a- 

44  Ibid.,  p.  300. 

45  In  the  Mid.  Engl,  metrical  version,  vv.  2579-2774,  Ed.  K. 
Campbell,  Seven  Sages  of  Rome,  1907,  pp.  88  ff.  Cf.  Campbell's 
remarks  on  this  tale,  p.  c-ci. 

46  Lipsius  and  Bonnet,  op.  cit.,  p.  213  ff. 

4TFurnivall,  Lives  of  the  Saints,  Trans.  Phil.  Soc.  1858,  p.  65. 
iSEETS,  1874,  bk.  II,  ch.  XVII,  218. 


LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS    A    FICTITIOUS    KAKKATIVE      43 

sciens  looked  on  the  Grail  and  was  struck  blind.  He  had 
his  sight  restored  to  him  bj  anointing  his  eyes  with  the 
blood  of  the  lance  which  had  been  in  the  side  of  Joseph  of 
Arimathea.*® 

The  idea  of  the  efficacy  of  blood  is  a  very  old  one. 
Cnniont  says:  "The  barbarous  custom  of  allowing  the 
blood  of  a  victim  slaughtered  on  a  latticed  platform  to 
fall  down  upon  the  mystic  lying  in  a  pit  below,  was  prob- 
ably practiced  in  Asia  from  time  immemorial.  Accord- 
ing to  a  widespread  notion  among  primitive  peoples,  the 
blood  is  the  vehicle  of  the  vital  energy,  and  the  person 
who  poured  it  upon  his  body  and  moistened  his  tongue 
with  it,  believed  that  he  was  thereby  endowed  with  the 
courage  and  strength  of  the  slaughtered  animal.^" 

The  legend  of  Longinus  is  then,  beyond  question,  fic- 
titious. Whether  the  name  Longinus  ultimately  attached 
to  the  soldier  connected  with  the  crucifixion  was  bor- 
rowed from  the  soldier  converted  by  Paul  or  not,  it  was 
evidently  affected  by  its  supposed  derivation  and  so  be- 
came permanent.  The  other  facts  of  his  story,  includ- 
ing his  blindness  and  his  miraculous  healing,  are  to  be 
explained  by  the  ordinary  mediseval  processes  of  narra- 
tive accretion. 

49  other  ailments  besides  blindness  were  healed  by  blood. 
Compare  the  well-known  healing  of  the  leprosy  of  Amiloun  by  the 
blood  of  the  children  of  Amis  (.Altengl.  Bibl.  II,  vv.  2221  ff.), 
which  goes  back  ultimately  to  a  story  told  of  the  Emperor  Con- 
stantine,  in  the  Acta  8.  Sylvestri  (cf.  Bollinger,  Die  Papst  Fabeln 
des  Mittelalters,  p.  53  ff.)  Constantine,  stricken  with  leprosy,  in 
order  to  be  cured,  must  bathe  in  a  pool  filled  with  the  blood 
of  children.  He  gives  up  this  proposed  cure  and  is  baptized  un- 
der Bishop  Silvester  instead.  The  Acta  Sylvestri  is  first  men- 
tioned in  the  Gelasian  Decretal  De  libris  recipiendis  et  non  re- 
cipiendis   (492-496  A.  D.) 

50  The  Mysteries  of  Mithra,  trans,  by  T.  J.  McCormack,  1903, 
p.  180. 

4 


CHAPTER  III 
LOI^GINUS  11^  ART 

The  history  of  Longinus  in  art,^  more  definitely  in  some 
respects  than  the  literature  of  the  period,  shows  the  hold 
which  his  story  had  on  the  mediasval  imagination.  Be- 
fore the  fourth  century  there  is  no  mention  in  litera- 
ture, it  will  be  recalled,  of  the  name  of  the  spearman 
who  pierced  the  side  of  Christ.  In  the  group  of  martyr- 
ologies  belonging  to  the  eighth  and  ninth  centuries  the 
incident  of  the  blindness  is  not  included  in  the  story ;  nor 
even  in  the  later  Bollandist  version  is  it  mentioned.  Still 
more  surprising  is  it  to  find  the  Legenda  Aurea,  as  late  as 
the  thirteenth  century,  referring  to  the  blindness  with 
some  reservation.  Judged  by  its  literature,  clearly  the 
Church  was  slow  to  add  this  element  to  the  story.  In 
early  Christian  art,  on  the  other  hand,  the  blindness  of 
Longinus  and  his  miraculous  healing  is  used  to  show  the 
great  mercy  of  the  Saviour,  certainly  not  later  than  the 
eighth  or  ninth  century,  and  perhaps  earlier. 

Of  the  great  influence  of  the  Passion  on  the  mediaeval 
imagination,  fimile  Male  says,  "II  faut  arriver  a  la 
Passion  pour  rencontrer  la  legende.  Comment  etit-il  pu 
en  etre  autrement?  Les  siecles  mystiques,  le  XIP  et  le 
XIII®,  reverent  sans  cesse  au  drame  inoui.     Cette  mort 

1  Kroner,  op.  cit.,  p.  34,  has  the  following  to  say  of  Longinus's 
connection  with  art:  "Auch  giebt  es  noch  eine  Menge  allerdings 
schon  alterer  Gemalde,  die  Christus  am  Kreuze  darstellen,  aur 
denen  man  einen  Soldaten  sieht,  der  eine  Lanze  im  Arme  halt, 
auf  den  Knieen  liegt  und  betet;  an  der  Lanze  klebt  Blut, — offen- 
bar  soil  diese  Person  den  hi.  Longinus  vorstellen,  der  dem  Herrn 
fiir  seine  Bekehrung  dankt." 

44 


LONGINUS    IN    AET  45 

d'un  Dieu,  ce  mystere  des  mysteres,  c'est  le  fond,  c'est 
I'aijae  meme  de  I'art  du  mojeai  age.  La  croix,  alors,  est 
partout  et  jusque  dans  le  plan  symbolique  de  la  cathedrale, 
*La  vie,'  dit  magnifiquement  Albert  le  Grand^  n'est  que 
I'onibre  que  projette  la  croix  de  Jesus-Christ :  hors  de  cette 
ombre,  il  n'y  a  que  mort."^  Long  before  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury the  Crucifixion  was  a  fruitful  subject  for  art.  First 
treated  in  the  East,  the  Passion  was  depicted  in  every  de- 
tail by  the  art  of  the  time.  The  Eastern  Christians  dwelt 
on  the  physical  suffering  of  Jesus.  He  was  to  them  a  liv- 
ing sacrifice;  while  yet  alive  he  shed  his  blood  for  the 
redemption  of  sinners.  The  belief  that  Christ  was  still 
living  when  his  side  was  pierced  is  shown,  in  all  the 
early  representations  of  the  crucifixion,  by  his  open  eyes. 
This  belief  made  the  piercing  and  the  instrument  used 
in  this  last  act  of  the  sacrifice  of  supreme  importance. 
So  Longinus  with  his  spear  was  never  omitted  in  the  pre- 
sentation of  the  subject. 

The  first  example  of  what  ReiP  makes  the  second  East- 
em  type  of  the  crucifixion  in  art  is  found  on  a  Syrian 
silver  platter  of  the  fifth  or  sixth  century.  In  this, 
Christ,  with  wide  open  eyes,  is  in  the  center  of  the  group. 
The  two  thieves  appear  on  either  side  of  the  cross  under 
the  outstretched  arms  of  the  crucified.  The  spear-bearer 
is  piercing  the  left  side  of  Jesus ;  the  sponge^bearer  stands 

2  fi.  Male,  UArt  religieux  du  XIII  Sidcle  en  France,  Paris,  1902, 
p.  259  ff. 

3  J.  Reil,  Die  Frilhchristlichen  Darstellungen  der  Kreuzigung 
Christi.  (Stud,  iiber  Christ  Denkmdler.  J.  Ficker)  Leipzig,  1904. 
Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  36,  quotes  from  the  Byzantine  Manual  PMles 
(1280-1350) :  "Der  Maler  hat  Jesus  an  das  Kreuz  gehangt.  Warum 
malst  du  ihn  nicht  geradezu  als  Gott?  Die  Gestalten  der  Leiber 
habe  ich  gelernt  und  kenne  ich,  aber  Gott  zu  malen,  sagt  er,  das 
1st  nicht  moglich." 


46  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOjSfGINUS 

on  the  right.  Two  "mora"  players  are  at  the  base  of 
the  cross.* 

The  same  type  is  illustrated  by  the  famous  crucifixion 
in  the  Syriac  Gospels  of  Rabula,  found  in  the  Lauren- 
tian  Library  in  Florence,  and  usually  dated  586.^  There 
is  some  question  as  to  this  date.  Kraus  says  "das  Datum 
ist  indes  jiingst  angefochten  worden;'"'  but  Reil  thinks 
it  a  not  impossible  composition  for  the  sixth  century.^ 
In  this  too  the  spearman  and  the  sponge-bearer  stand 
at  either  side  of  the  cross.  The  spear  this  time  is  thrust 
into  the  right  side  of  the  Saviour.  Over  the  soldier  is 
the  name  AOriNOS. 

Exactly  the  same  grouping  is  seen  for  the  first  time 
in  the  West  in  a  painting  of  the  second  half  of  the  eighth 
century^  in  a  chapel  of  the  Roman  Saint  Maria  An- 
tiqua — a  church  created  out  of  the  library  connected  with 
the  temple  of  Augustus,  which  was  excavated  and  care- 
fully restored  in  1900-1901.^  "In  the  niche  over  the 
altar,"  says  Hiilsen,  "is  a  remarkably  well  preserved  pic- 
ture of  the  crucifixion  (fig.  98,  p.  175)  :  the  Sav- 
iour, clothed  in  a  long  greyish-blue  colobium,  has  his 
eyes  open  and  appears  to  be  alive,  although  the  soldier 
(Longinus)   has  already  pierced  his  side.     To  the  right 

^  Ibid.,  pp.  64  ff.;  cf.  fig.  3  Syrischer  Silberteller  aus  dem  gou- 
vernement  Perm. 

s  Smith  and  Cheatham,  Diet.  Christ  Antiq;  cf.  also  E.  L.  Cutts, 
Hist.  Early  Christ.  Art,  p.  201;  cf.  Assemani,  Cat.  Bibl.  Medic. 
Florence,  p.  1742,  tav.  XXII. 

6  F.  X.  Kraus,  Oeschichte  d.  christl.  Kunst,  I,  174. 

T  Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  70  "(Speertrager  und  Schwammhalter,  Mora 
spielende  Soldaten)  sind  zweifellos  syrischer  Herkunft,  und  ihr 
Auftreten  im  6.  Jahrhundert  ist  wahi'scheinlich." 

8  Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  75. 

9  Chr.  Hiilsen,  The  Roman  Forum,  trans.  J.  B.  Carter,  1906, 
p.  164. 


LONGINUS    IN    AET  47 

and  the  left  of  the  cross,  are  Mary  and  John,  and  be- 
tween John  and  the  cross  is  another  soldier  with  the 
sponge  and  the  vessel  of  vinegar;  over  the  arms  of  the 
cross  are  the  sun  and  the  moon  hiding  their  light.  The 
composition  bears  a  strong  resemblance  to  a  mosaic,  now 
destroyed,  from  the  chapel  of  John  VII  in  St.  Peter's 
(fragments  in  the  Grottos  of  the  Vatican)."^"  In  the  re- 
production, the  names  Sea.  Maria,  8cs.  loannes,  and 
Longinus  appear.  Reil  adds  more  details:  "Der  Speer- 
trager,  durch  die  Beischrift  (Longinus)  deutlich  gekenn- 
zeichnet,  ist  eine  bartige,  mit  griinem  und  auf  der  Brust 
goldverziertem  Warns  bekleidete  Figur.  Ein  Schwert 
hangt  an  seiner  Linken.  Er  steht  halbseitwarts  nach 
hinten  und  stosst  mit  beiden  Handen  die  Lanze  in  Christi 
rechte  Brust,  aus  welcher  ihm  Blutstrahlen  ins  Gesicht 
springen."^^  Indeed  Keil  sees  in  this  blood  streaming  into 
the  face  of  Longinus,  indication  of  recognition  of  his 
blindness  by  tlie  artist.  ''Entstromendes  Blut  haben  erst 
die  Bilder  in  Maria  Antiqua  und  S.  Giovanni  e  Paolo 
abzubilden  gewagt.  Auch  hier  halfen  andere  Motive, 
asetischen  Wider willen  zu  iiberwinden.  Die  Hinzufii- 
gung  des  Namens  Longinus  im  Bilde  von  S.  Maria  An- 
tiqua und  die  Kopfhaltung  des  Speertragers  hier  \\de  in 
S.  Giovanni  e  Paolo,  durch  welche  das  Blut  Christi  sein 
Gesicht  treffen  muss,  beweisen,  dass  die  um  seine  Per- 
son gebildeten  Legenden,  hier  insbesondere  die  Heilung 
des  blinden  Longinus  durch  die  Christi  Seite  entstromen- 
den  Bluts-tropfen,  ins  Bild  eingedrungen  sind."^^ 

Whether  the  artists   in  the  cases   just  mentioned  in- 
tended to  represent  Longinus's  blindness  or  not,  is  per- 

lo/fttd.,  pp.  175-176. 

11  Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  77. 

12  Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  90. 


48  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

haps  to  be  questioned.  The  reference,  however,  soon  be- 
comes unmistakable.  J.  R.  Allen,  speaking  of  Irish 
crosses,  says:  "The  representations  of  the  crucifixion 
upon  the  Irish  crosses  were  probably  copied  from  the 
illuminations  of  the  Celtic  MSS,  which,  in  their  turn, 
were  derived  from  the  Byzantine  or  Greek  MSS."^^  In 
this  Irish  type  of  crucifixion,  he  notes,  "the  eyes  are 
shown  open.  ...  As  a  rule,  the  only  actors  in  the 
scene  of  the  crucifixion,  as  treated  in  Irish  art,  are  the 
two  soldiers,  one  piercing  our  Lord's  side  with  a  spear, 
and  the  other  offering  Him  a  sponge,  or  cup,  shaped  like 
a  crescent,  filled  with  vinegar,  at  the  end  of  a  reed."^* 
Irish  crucifixions,  following  the  Eastern  type,  are  nu- 
merous in  MSS  and  on  crosses.  The  most  interesting  of 
these  is  a  miniature  in  the  St.  Gall  Gospels  (no.  51), 
a  MS  of  the  ninth  centuiy,^^  which  shows  Longinus 
piercing  the  left  side  of  Christ.  In  this  representation 
the  blindness  of  Longinus  and  the  miraculous  restoration 
of  his  sight  is  indicated  unmistakably  by  a  zig-zag  line  of 
blood — the  line  in  the  MS  is  red — drawn  from  the  side  of 
Christ  where  the  point  of  the  spear  still  rests,  to  the  eyes 
of  Longinus. 

It  may  not  be  amiss  to  enumerate  still  other  manu- 
script illuminations  that  deal  with  the  story  of  Longi- 
nus, some  of  which  represent  his  blindness.     These  illus- 

13  J,  R.  Allen,  Christian  Symbolism  in  Great  Britain  and  Ire- 
land, 1887,  p.  142. 

14  Ibid.,  pp.  144,  ff. 

^5  Ibid.,  fig.  36.  Cf.  F.  Keller,  Bilder  und  Schriftziige  in  dem 
irischen  MSS  der  sehweizerischen  Bibliotheken,  PL  V;  Longinus 
pierces  the  right  side  of  Jesus.  The  whole  picture  is  reversed. 
Cf.  also  Westwood,  Facsimiles  of  Miniatures  and  Ornaments  of 
Irish  and  Anglo-Saxon  MSS,  1868,  pi.  28,  codex  no.  1395  (ninth 
century). 


LONGINUS    IN    ART  49 

trations  are  often  found  in  the  Passions,  or  Hours  of  the 
Cross,  under  the  hour  of  None. 

A  manuscript  Horae  in  H.  Yates  Thompson's  collec- 
tion (MS  59,  fol.  37'')  contains  an  illumination  which  is 
thus  described :  "At  the  foot  of  the  cross,  kneeling  on  one 
knee  and  spearing  the  Saviour's  side,  is  the  soldier  Lon- 
ginus,  represented  as  an  old  man  with  white  hair,  wearing 
a  long  open-sleeved  robe  and  a  full  head-dress  hanging 
down  the  back  of  the  head ;  his  face  is  upturned,  and  with 
his  left  hand  he  points  to  his  right  eye,  which  is  closed,  as 
if  imploring  the  Saviour  for  restoration."^® 

Another  of  the  Horae,  in  the  same  collection,  which  also 
represents  the  blindness,  is  MS  75,  fol.  113.  Longinus 
kneels  to  the  left  and  points  tO'  his  eye,  while  he  pierces 
Christ's  side  with  a  spear.  To  the  right  is  the  centurion 
in  Roman  armour.^^  In  MS  85,  fol.  61,  Longinus,  in 
the  background  to  the  left,  pierces  the  side  of  Christ  and 
points  to  his  eye.^* 

In  an  illustration  of  the  crucifixion  found  in  the 
British  Museum,  Royal  MS  19  C  I,  fol.  119,  Longinus, 
with  a  spear,  appears  on  the  left.     He  points  to  his  eye.^® 

Also  showing  the  blindness,  is  an  illustration  found 
in  the  magnificently  ornamented  Trinity  College  Horae, 
B.  11,  31,  32  (James  269,  270),  of  French  execution. 
The  catalogue  description  is  as  follows :  "The  side  pierced 
and  the  sponge  offered.     Longinus  is  blind.     The  virgin 

16  James's  Catalogue  of  Yates  Thompson's  MSS,  p.  86.  Horae 
of  'Elysabeth  the  Quene,'  date  c.  1400-1415. 

T^T  Ibid.,  p.  173,  Horae  of  Jeanne  II,  Queen  of  Navarre,  four- 
teenth century. 

^sibid.,  p.  173,  Horae  of  Admiral  Prigent  de  Coctivy.  Before 
1445. 

19  A  southern  French  Breviaire  d" Amour  of  the  fourteenth 
century. 


50  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

swoons.  The  tMeves  are  bound,  not  nailed  to  their  crosses. 
The  bad  one  has  back  to  Christ." 

In  ivories,  Longinus,  of  course,  is  seen  frequently.  Two 
examples  in  the  Maskell  collection,  British  Museum,  may 
be  noted.  The  first  is  found  in  a  panel  of  a  Carlovingian 
book  cover,  of  the  ninth  century ;  Longinus  and  the  sponge- 
bearer  appear  on  the  right  and  the  left  of  Jesus.  The 
other  is  in  a  German  crucifixion  of  the  eleventh  cen- 
tury: Longinus  is  sho^\Ti  on  the  left^  kneeling  with  up- 
lifted, clasped  hands,  his  spear  on  the  ground  at  his  side, 
his  eyes  open,  his  face  uplifted;  the  sponge-bearer  is  on 
the  opposite  side;  Mary  and  John  stand  opposite  each 
other,  and  the  two  thieves  are  similarly  placed.  In  the 
Sneyd  collection,  also  in  the  British  Museum,  there  is  a 
Ehenish  panel  of  the  eleventh  century,  which  is  similar 
to  the  Carlovingian  panel  noted  above. 

Other  representations  that  are  somewhat  different  are 
found  as  follows:  In  Bodleian  MS,  Liturgical  334,  fol. 
3*^,  there  is  an  old  fifteenth  century  print  of  the  cruci- 
fixion colored  by  hand.  Mary  and  John  stand  opposite 
each  other  in  the  foreground.  Just  behind  Mary,  with 
pink  robe  and  green  hat,  stands  Longinus  with  spear  di- 
rected toward  the  right  side  of  Christ.  An  angel  just 
above  holds  cups  under  the  right  hand  and  the  wound 
in  the  side  of  Christ,  to  catch  the  blood.  A  similar  angel 
catches  the  blood  from  the  left  hand.^" 

In  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  MS,  B  10,  12  (James 
223),  of  the  fifteenth  century,  Longinus  is  shown  old  and 
bearded,  in  a  red  turban.  The  body  of  Christ  is  bleed- 
ing in  numerous  places  from  the  flagellation. 

20  Cf.  W.  de  Grey  Birch  and  H.  Jenner,  Early  Drawings  and 
Illuminations  in  British  Museum. 


LONGINUS    IN    AKT  51 

In  Britisli  Museum  Eoyal  MS,  20  D  VI,  f.  46^  of 
the  thirteenth  century,  Longinus  stands  by  two  falling 
columns  and  idols,  on  a  background  of  polished  gold. 
Longinus  is  clad  in  a  red  tunic  and  green  cap,  and  holds 
a  large  axe. 

Different  from  any  other  I  have  seen  is  the  illustration 
in  another  Trinity  College  Horae,  B.  11,  7  (James  246), 
no.  57,  Vespers:  "The  Virgin  swoons  on  the  left,  John 
supports  her,  and  the  Magdalen  stands  behind  her.  Lon- 
ginus kneels  with  the  spear;  the  centurion,  ruler  and 
soldiers  appear  on  the  right.  On  Longinus's  robe  is  the 
word  amor,  and  on  that  of  the  centurion,  durant;  on  the 
ruler's  vere.  On  the  ground  is  written:  'Misericordia 
et  Veritas  obuiauerunt  sibi ;  Justicia  et  pax  osculate 
sunt.'  " 

More  interesting  still  are  the  representations  of  the 
story  found  on  monuments  and  in  buildings,  in  places 
frequented  by  all  classes  of  people,  and  consequently 
making  wider  appeal  than  illuminations  in  manuscripts 
could.  There  are  a  number  of  these  illustrations  of  the 
legend  in  England.  Some  of  them  are:  A  crucifixion 
with  the  two  thieves,  the  spearman,  (but  no  spongec 
bearer)  on  the  font  at  Lenton,  ITotts.  f^  another  on  the 
shaft  of  the  jamb  of  the  ISTorman  doorway  at  Dudding- 
stone,  near  Edinborough,  with  the  sponge-bearer,  Longi- 
nus, and  a  bird ;  on  Moone  Abbey  Cross  ;^^  on  a  slab  built 
into  the  walls  of  the  Saxon  Church  at  Daglingworth 
(eleventh  century  ?)  ;"  on  a  cross  at  Spital,  Hexliam, 
iNTorthumberland,   a  soldier  with  his  lance  on  the  right 

21  J.  R.  Allen,  op.  cit.,  fig.  112. 

22  lud.,  fig.  69. 
2S  Ibid.,  fig.  41. 


52  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

of  Jesus  ;^*  on  a  cross  at  Aycliffe,  Durham  ;^^  on  a  cross 
at.  Alnmouth,  J^orthumberland.^''  The  last  two  have 
been  considered  as  belonging  perhaps  to  the  eighth  cen- 
tury. Longinus  appears  also  on  the  roodscreen  of  Suf- 
field  church,^^  In  the  east  window  of  St.  Peter's,  Man- 
croft,  Norwich,^*  Longinus  is  shown  with  a  spear  in  one 
hand,  pointing  to  his  eye  with  the  other, ^^ 

It  is  unnecessary  here  to  speak  of  more  modern  uses 
of  Longinus  in  art.  His  position  as  the  patron  saint  of 
Mantua^"  has  made  him  a  subject  of  some  of  Mantegna's 
best  known  paintings.^^  He  appears  in  Kuben's  Ant- 
werp Crucifixion,  and  elsewhere.     Suffice  it  to  say  that 

24  J.  Stuart,  Sculptured  Stones  of  Scotland,  pi.  88. 

25  iMd.,  pi.  90. 

26  Ibid.,  pi.  117. 

27  F.  C.  Husenbeth,  Emhlems  of  Saints:  by  which  they  are  dis- 
tinguished in  works  of  art,  1882,  p.  131. 

28  IMd.,  p.  131. 

29  No  attempt  has  been  made  to  make  these  representations  of 
Longinus  in  art  exhaustive.  Many  other  examples  are  accessible. 
I  have  merely  tried  to  show  that  the  story  of  Longinus  was  popu- 
lar in  the  art  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  so  of  influence. 

30  According  to  tradition,  Mantua  possesses  the  body  of  St. 
Longinus,  and  drops  of  the  blood  of  Christ  brought  by  Longinus 
to  the  city.  In  the  history  of  Longinus  given  in  the  Petits  Bol- 
landistes  Vies  des  Saints,  it  is  stated:  "Le  reliquaire  du  saint 
sang  figure  sur  plusieurs  monnaies  anciennes  de  la  cite  de  Man- 
toue."  ...  St.  Longinus  appears  with  "reliquaire"  and  drops 
of  blood  in  a  picture  in  the  Louvre,  by  Giulio  Romano.  Cf. 
the  engraved  title  page  of  La  Vita  dis  Longino  Martire  Cavalier 
Mantoana,  Girolano  Magagnati,  1605.  S.  Longinus  stands  on  one 
side  and  S.  Barbara  on  the  other.  The  vessel  containing  the 
sacred  blood  is  in  the  center,  and  Mantua  is  below.  Longinus  is 
shown  with  his  spear  in  his  hand,  his  helmet  and  armor  at  his 
feet.  The  usual  belief  is  (cf.  Bollandists)  that  the  Mantuan  story 
did  not  exist  until  804,  when  a  small  vase  of  lead  was  found. 
Some  time  after  a  body  was  also  found,  but  there  was  nothing  to 
indicate  that  it  was  the  body  of  Longinus. 

F.  Nodari  attempted  in  1899,  to  restore  favor  to  the  idea  that 


LONGINUS    IN    AKT  53 

art  shows  rather  more  clearly  than  literature  just  how 
his  legend  travelled  from  one  part  of  the  world  to  an- 
other. The  earliest  appearance  of  the  Longinus  story 
in  art  was  in  Syria.  From  there  it  seems  to  have  trav- 
elled to  Rome,  and  probably  directly  also  to  Ireland. 
Reil  says:  "Dass  gerade  die  Irlander  dem  Bilde  des 
Gekreuzigten  unter  den  germanischen  und  keltischen 
Volkern,  die  samtlich  gleiches  Interesse  an  dem  helden- 
haft  fiir  seine  Mannen  sterbenden  Christus  hatten,  zu- 
meist  Eingang  verschafften  liegt  an  ihrem  Wandertriebe 
und  Missionseifer."^^  And  again,  "Dazu  war  die  direkte 
Verbindung  Irlands  im  8.  und  9.  Jahrhundert  mit  dem 
Osten  lebhaft.     Wie  von  iiberall  her,  so  wanderte  man 

S.  Longinus  preached  the  faith  and  suffered  martyrdom  in  Man- 
tua: he  tried  to  show  that  this  belief  extended  back  of  the  dis- 
covery of  the  relics  in  804.  In  criticism  of  this  work  in  Analecta 
Bollandiana,  tom.  XIX  (1900),  46,  the  author  says  in  part:  "A 
partir  du  IXe  si&cle  surtout  les  Revelations  et  les  Inventions  se 
multiplient  d'une  fagon  inqui6tante  et  am§nent  au  jour  des  reli- 
ques  que  I'antiquite  avait  toujours  ignorees,  qu'elle  aurait  meme 
repouss6es  avec  horreur,  tant  I'imagination  surexcitSe  se  donne 
de  license." 

31  Woltmann-Woermann,  Hist,  of  Painting  (tr.  C.  Bell)  II,  376. 
At  Mantua,  by  Mantegna,  "Christ  rising  from  the  grave,  with  SS. 
Andrew  and  Longinus,  the  patron  saints  of  Mantua,  on  either  hand." 
Cf.  Kristeller,  Mantegna,  pp.  386,  400,  "We  would  be  almost 
tempted  to  see  in  this  composition  [The  Risen  Christ  between  SS. 
Andrew  and  Longinus]  the  design  for  a  group  of  statuary,  per- 
haps for  the  high  altar  of  S.  Andrea  in  Mantua,  which  was  raised 
above  the  most  sacred  relic  possessed  by  the  city,  the  'prezio- 
sissimo  sangue  di  Cristo.'  Longinus,  who  is  supposed  to  have 
brought  this  relic  to  Mantua,  and  Andrea,  were  the  especial  pa- 
tron saints  of  the  town,  and  particularly  of  the  church  of  S. 
Andrea."  Cf.  also  the  Madonna  della  Vittoria  of  Mantegna,  now 
in  the  Louvre. 

32  Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  114.  Cf .  D.  Hyde,  A  Literary  History  of  Ire- 
land, 1903,  pp.  453,  454,  who  says  of  Irish  art,  that  it  is  not  Irish, 
but  Eastern.  He  thinks  that  so-called  Irish  patterns  started 
from  Byzantium,  spread  over  Dalmatia  and  North  Italy,  and 
finally  found  their  way  into  Ireland. 


54  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

auch  voni  aussersten  Westen  nach.  Palastina.  Irland- 
ische  Pilger  besuchten  die  heiligeii  Statten.  Adamnan. 
der  Abt  von  Hj,  schrieb  um  670  seine  Reisenotizen ; 
Marcellus  und  Moengal  kamen  von  einer  Palestinareise, 
als  sie  sieh  in  St.  Gallen  niederliessen.  Aegjptische  und 
andere  auswartige  Moncbe  pilgerten  nack  Irland  und 
wurden  hier  bestattet,  etc."^^  Adamnan  did  not,  accord- 
ing to  Stokes,  visit  Palestine.  He  saw  and  used  Arculf  s 
notes  and  took  from  Arculf  bis  description  of  the  coun- 
try.- 

It  has  already  been  noted  that  Allen  considers  Irish 
art  Oriental  in  character,  thus  bearing  out  in  a  measure 
Reil's  conclusions.  Zimmer,  though  chiefly  concerned 
with  the  diffusion  of  Irish  culture,  rather  than  with  its 
sources,  refers  to  Ireland  and  Spain  as  the  two  countries 
offering  an  asylum  to  Greco-Roman  learning  in  the  sev- 
enth century. ^^  Stokes  also  calls  attention  to  the  fact 
that  numerous  Eastern  ecclesiastics  found  refuge  in  Ire- 
land in  the  eighth  century.^®  Irish  monasticism,  peculi- 
arities of  church  service,  art,  architecture,  are  now  traced 
to  Oriental  sources. 

The  history  of  Longinus  in  art  is  interesting  for  still 
another  reason.  It  explains,  I  think,  one  of  the  most 
puzzling  points  in  the  evolution  of  the  legend.  The 
church  accounts,  it  will  be  remembered,  gave  no  sugges- 
tion as  to  why  the  centurion  was  more  or  less  entirely  su- 
perseded in  popular  favor  by  the  soldier.  As  the  Cru- 
cifixion came  to  be  the  dominant  inspiration  of  art,  and 

33Reil,  op.  cit.,  p.  114. 

34  G.  T.  Stokes,  Ireland  and  the  Celtic  Church,  p.  99. 

35  H.  Zimmer,  Irish  Element  in  Mediaeval  Culture,  trans,  by 
J.  L.  Edwards,  p.  11. 

36  G.  T.  Stokes,  op.  cit.,  p.  188. 


LONGINUS    IN    ART  55 

since,  in  the  East  especially,  it  kept  before  the  minds  of 
the  people  the  idea  of  the  physical  suffering  of  Christ  on 
the  cross,  the  spearman,  as  the  human  instrument  of  this 
torture,  the  person  most  closely  associated  with  the  shed- 
ding of  the  blood  of  the  living  Saviour,  naturally  became 
more  and  more  prominent.  The  role  of  the  centurion,  on 
the  other  hand,  was  less  dramatic  and  would  make  far 
less  appeal  to  the  emotions.  Moreover,  just  the  familiar- 
ity with  the  soldier  that  would  come  from  seeing  him  rep- 
resented everywhere  in  the  art  of  the  time,  would  result 
finally  in  impressing  his  story  much  more  forcibly  on  the 
public  than  the  tale  of  the  centurion,  which  appeared  far 
less  frequently. 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  LAKCE  AS  A  RELIC  AKD  IN  THE 
LITURGY 

The  history  of  the  lance  in  the  liturgy  lies  so  close  to 
its  history  as  a  relic,  that  in  some  ways  it  seems  unwise 
to  separate  the  consideration  of  the  two.  Its  growing 
importance  as  a  relic  increased,  of  course,  its  liturgical 
value;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  prominence  of  the 
lance  in  the  most  solemn  service  of  the  Greek  Church 
greatly  enhanced  the  value,  as  a  relic,  of  the  lance  already 
honored  independently  as  an  instrument  used  in  the  cru- 
cifixion itself.  Since,  however,  the  two  uses  have  led  to 
separate  literary  development — the  lance  as  a  relic  as- 
sociating itself  with  the  romances  which  deal  with  the 
crusades,  and  the  lance  of  the  mass  connecting  with  the 
spear  of  the  Grail  romances — it  vnll  be  convenient  to 
consider  first,  the  lance  as  a  relic,  and,  second,  the  re- 
lation of  Longinus  and  his  lance  to  the  liturgy. 


§1.     The  Lance  as  a  Sacked  Relic 

The  earliest  reference  I  have  found  to  the  history  of 
the  lance  used  at  the  cross  is  that  in  the  Departure  of 
My  Lady  Mary: 

"In  the  year  345  (Greek  era,  A.  D.  33  or  34)  ...  my  Lady  Mary 
came  forth  from  her  house,  and  went  to  the  tomb  of  the  Messiah. 
.  .  .  But  the  Jews,  as  soon  as  the  Messiah  was  dead,  closed  the 
tomb.  .  .  .  And  the  Jews  took  the  cross  of  our  Lord,  and  the  other 
two  crosses,  and  the  spear  with  which  our  Saviour  had  been 

56 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    KELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY       57 

pierced,  and  the  nails  which  they  had  fixed  in  his  hands  and  feet, 
and  the  robes  of  mockery  which  he  had  worn,  and  hid  them."i 

In  a  Breviarius  de  Hierosolyma,  which  dates  from 
about  530,  there  is  a  description  of  the  Basilica  of 
Constantine  in  Jerusalem:  "Et  est  in  medio  civita- 
tis  basilica  ilia,  ubi  est  lanoea,  unde  percussus  est 
Dominus,  et  de  ipsa  facta  est  crux,  et  lucet  in  nocte 
sicut  sol  in  virtute  diei."^  In  570,  Antony,  the  martyr, 
saw  the  lance  in  the  basilica  of  Sion.^  Arculf,  about 
670,  also  testifies  that  he  saw  the  spear  with  which  the  sol- 
dier pierced  the  side  of  Christ.  According  to  him  the 
spear  was  fixed  in  a  wooden  cross  in  the  portico  of  Con- 
stantine's  basilica,  its  shaft  being  broken  into  two  parts. 
He  states  that  the  whole  city  of  Jerusalem  resorted  to 
the  basilica  in  order  to  kiss  and  venerate  the  spear.* 

Bede  gives  testimony  as  to  the  lance  in  his  time: 
"Lancea  militis  inserta  habetur  in  cruce  lignea  in  por- 
ticu  martyrii,  cujus  hastile  in  duas  intercisum  partes,  a 
tota  veneratur  civitate."" 

1 W.  Cureton,  Ancient  Syriac  Documents  (from  the  year  after 
our  Lord's  Ascension  to  the  beginning  of  the  fourth  century). 
Reprinted  in  Journal  of  Sacred  Literature,  4th  ser.  Ill,  1865, 
p.  133. 

2  Pilgrim  Text  Soc.  I,  26;  Tobler  and  Molinier,  Itinera  Hieroso- 
lyma, I,  57.  An  exactly  similar  account  is  found  in  the  De  terra 
Sancta,  IV,  of  Theodosius.  circa  530  (Tobler  and  Molinier,  I,  64). 

sPilg.  Text.  II,  18;  Tobler  and  Molinier,  I,  126. 

4PtZ(/.  Text.  I,  34;  Tobler  and  Molinier,  I,  153.  A  very  late 
pilgrim  reference  is  interesting  in  this  connection:  The  Pil- 
grimage of  Sir  Richard  Guylforde  to  the  Holy  Land,  A.  D.  1506, 
Camden  Sc.  1851,  p.  4.  "Frydaye  to  Labrylle,  and  to  Lyon,  where 
we  taryed  bothe  Saterdaye  and  Sonday,  and  vysyted  the  relyques 
at  the  Yle  where  saint  Anne  lyeth  and  Longyous;  there  is  also  a 
cuppe  of  an  emerawde  stone  whereof  oure  Sauyoure  Crist  dranke 
at  his  maundy."  For  the  history  of  this  emerald  cup,  see  Th. 
Sterzenbach,  Ursprung  und  Entwicklung  der  Sage  vom  heil.  Oral, 
1908,  pp.  28  ff. 

5  De  Locis  Sanctis,  Giles,  IV,  408. 


58  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOA'^GINUS 

After  this  time  there  are  varying  accounts  of  the 
whereabouts  of  the  lance,®  imtil  in  1098,  the  crusaders 
discovered  it  at  Antioch/  Perhaps  the  most  interesting 
reference  to  this  discovery  is  found  in  the  letter  of  the 

lords  to  the  Pope: 

I 
Epistola  Boamundi   Principis   Antiochiae,   Reymundi   Comitis 

Sancti  ^gidij,  Godefredi  Duels  Lotharingise,  Robert!  Comitis 
Normanniae,  Robert!  Comitis  Flandrensis,  &  Eustachi!  Comitis 
Boloniae  ad  Urbanum  II,  Papam. 

Anno,  1098, 
Quare  ita  desolati  &  afflict!  fuimus  quod  fame  &  alijs  multis 
angustijs  morientes,  equos  &  asinos  nostros  famelicos  interfici- 
entes  mult!  nostri  comederunt.  Sed  interim  clementissima  miseri- 
cordia  omnipotentis  Dei  nobis  subveniente  &  pro  nobis  vigilante, 
dominicam  lanceam,  qua  latus  Jesu  Christ!  Longini  manibus  per- 
foratum fuit,  sancto  Andrea  Apostolo  cuidam  famulo  Dei  ter  reve- 
lante  &  ipsum  locum  ubi  lancea  jacebat  demonstrante,  in  Ecclesia 
beati  Petri  Apostolorum  principis  invenimus.  Cujus  inventione  & 
multis  alijs  divinis  revelationibus  ita  confortati  &  corroboratl 
fuimus  ut  qui  antea  afflict!  &  timid!  fueramus,  tunc  ad  bellum 
faciendum  audacissim!  promptissimique,  alij  alios  bortabamur."" 

There  are  two  accounts  of  the  finding  of  the  lance  by  the 
pilgrims.  That  given  by  most  historians  follows  an  early 
anonymous  authority:  "Erat  autem  quidam  peregrinus 
de  nostro  exercitu,  cui  nomen  Petrus,  cui  antequam  Civi- 
tatem  intraremus,  apparuit  Sanctus  Andreas  apostolus, 
dicens.  Quid  agis,  bone  vir?  Cui  ille  respondit:  Tu 
quis  es  ?     Dixit  ei  apostolus :  Ego  sum  Andreas  Apos- 

6  Moron!  (Dizionario,  XXXIX,  89  ff.)  comments  on  Bede's  testi- 
mony, and  states  that  afterwards  the  Saracens  invaded  Jerusa- 
lem, and  carried  the  sacred  iron  to  Antioch  and  buried  it. 

TFulcherius  Carnotensis  (1058)  Historia  Hierosol.  Recueil  des 
Eistoriens  des  Croisades,  III,  344;  cf.  also  H.  Hagenmeyer, 
Anonymi  Oesta  Francorum,  1890.  cap.  XXVIII;  cf.  V.  de  Beau- 
vais.  Spec.  Historiale,  lib.  XXV,  cap.  C,  De  inventione  lanceae 
saluatoris  nostri  ihesu  Cristi. 

8  S.  Baluzii,  Miscellaneorum,  Paris,  1678,  I,  415. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    KELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITUKGY        59 

tolus.  Agnoscas,  fili,  quia,  dum  villain  intraveris,  va- 
dens  ad  ecclesiam  beati  Petri,  ibi  invenies  lanceam  Salva- 
toris  nostri  Jesu  Christi,  ex  qua  in  crucis  pendens  pati- 
bulo  vulneratus  est."^  Another  quite  different  explana- 
tion is  given  in  Le  Chevalier  au  Cygne.  A  Christian 
slave  at  Antioch  goes  to  Peter  the  Hermit  and  says: 
(1.  8173)  "A  ceste  sainte  eglise  dont  ichj  vous  devis  Avoit 
moult  de  relicques,  ce  nous  dist  \j  escrips."  These  relics 
include  the  robe  of  Jesus,  and  the  lance  of  Longinus,  which 
Helena  had  left  there,  and  which  had  been  kept  in  St. 
Stephens,  Antioch,  unknown  to  the  Saracens.  The  lance 
was  exhibited  by  Peter  to  Godfrey  and  the  other  cru- 
saders, and  its  genuineness  was  tested.  It  shone  and  it 
filled  the  place  with  a  sweet  odor.  The  lance  was  discov- 
ered at  an  extreme  moment;  the  famine  was  so  great  that 
a  mother  devoured  her  child.  When  the  sacred  lance  was 
taken  into  battle,  however,  victory  was  gained  and  the 
troubles  of  every  kind  were  at  an  end.^** 

9  Anonymi  Gesta  Francorum,  ed.  H.  Hagenmeyer,  Heidelberg, 
1890,  cap.  XXV,  year  1098. 

10  De  Reiffenberg,  Le  Chevalier  au  Cygne  et  Oodefroid  de  Bouil- 
lon, II,  LXXX.  Moroni,  Dizionario  di  Erudizione  Storico-Ecclesi- 
astica,  says  that  after  tlie  finding  of  the  Lance  by  the  Crusaders, 
it  was  deposited  in  Constantinople,  and  adds  that,  according  to 
some  authorities,  it  was  there  in  the  sixth  century.  Rohault  de 
Fleury,  M^moire  sur  les  Instruments  de  la  Passion,  Paris,  1870, 
p.  274,  has  also  traced  the  history  of  the  relic.  According  to  him, 
in  1243,  Baldwin  sent  the  point  to  St.  Louis  with  other  relics  that 
he  had  in  trust  from  the  Venetians.  A  part  was  sent  in  1492  by 
Bajazet,  emperor  of  the  Turks,  to  Innocent  VIII,  who  placed  it  in 
St.  Peter's  at  Rome.  Benoit  XIV  had  made  a  piece  like  the  point 
at  Paris,  and  found  that  it  fitted  the  part  in  Rome.  Fleury  said 
he  had  not  been  able  to  see  the  spear  at  St.  Peter's.  The  Sainte- 
Chapelle  possessed  the  point  in  1793,  and  it  was  removed  from 
there  to  the  Bibl.  Nat. ;  but  it  was  not,  he  asserted,  at  the  time  he 
was  writing,  at  either  place.  Cf.  Du  Cange,  suJ)  voce,  "Lancea, 
Caroli  Magni." 

5 


60  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

The  lance  of  the  crucifixion  held  prominent  place 
among  the  relics  which  Charlemagne  is  said  to  have 
brought  back  with  him  from  his  visit  to  Constantinople. 
P.  Meyer"  discussing  these  says:  "D'apres  une  tradition 
constatee  dans  la  Chanson  du  Pelerinage  de  Charle- 
magne, le  grand  empereur  aurait  rapporte  de  Constanti- 
nople un  des  clous  de  la  Crucifixion,  en  meme  temps  que 
d'autres  reliques."  In  the  Karlamagnus-saga  of  the 
twelfth  century,  Charles  visits  the  tomb  of  Christ,  re- 
turns by  Constantinople,  and  aids  the  king  of  the  Greeks 
against  the  Infidels.  The  Greek  king  offers  to  become 
the  vassal  of  Charles;  but  Charles  refuses  to  accept  his 
offer,  and  asks  only  for  relics.  He  is  given  the  "suaire" 
the  point  of  the  lance  of  the  crucifixion  and  the  lance  of 
St.  Mercure.  He  places  the  relics  in  different  French 
cities,  and  has  the  lance  point  set  in  the  hilt  of  his  sword. 
It  is  named  from  that  time  "Joyeuse."^^ 

The  lance  is  included  by  William  of  Malmesbury  in 
an  account  he  gives  of  the  presents  sent  by  Hugh  of 
France  to  Athelstan,  whose  sister  he  desired  in  mar- 
riage: 

"Ensem  Constantini  magni,  in  quo  litteris  aureis  nomen  an- 
tiqui  possessoris  legebatur;  in  capulo  quoque  super  crassas  auri 
laminas  clavum  ferreum  affixum  cerneres,  unum  ex  quatuor  quos 
Judaica  f actio  Dominici  corporis  aptarat  supplicio:  lanceam  Ca- 
roli  magni,  quam  imperator  invictissimus,  contra  Saracenos  exer- 
citum  ducens,  siquando  in  hostem  vibrabat,  nunquam  nisi  victor 
abibat;   ferebatur  eadem  esse  quae,  Dominico  lateri  centurionis 

11  La  Chanson  des  Clowechons,  Romania,  XXXIV,  96. 

12  G.  Paris,  Bibl.  de  VEcole  des  Chartes,  XXV,  102.  Cf.  Gautier. 
Epopees  Franc.  HI,  292.  In  the  Iter  Jerusol.  eleventh  century, 
Epopees  Franc.  Ill,  288,  the  relics  given  Charl.  are:  crown,  nail, 
piece  of  the  wood  of  the  cross,  'suaire'  (robe,  or  shroud  of  Jesus), 
the  chemise  of  the  virgin,  the  ceinture  that  held  our  Lord  in  his 
cradle,  and  the  arm  of  Simeon. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    EELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY        61 

manu  impacta,  pretiosi  vulneris  hiatu  Paradisum  miseris  mortall- 
bus  aperuit."i3 

Among  the  miraculous  properties  connected  with  such  a 
relic,  one  would  certainly  expect  to  find  the  power  of  heal- 
ing. And  in  Clement  Brentano's  Passion  de  Notre  Sei- 
gneur' Jesus  Christ  this  property  is  explicitly  ascribed  to 
the  lance.  Longinus,  we  are  told,  in  the  course  of  his 
ministry  converted  many  and  "guerissait  des  malades  en 
leur  faisant  toucher  un  morceau  de  la  sainte  lance  qu'iJ 
portait  avec  lui,"^*  Brentano's  Passion,  it  is  true,  is  of 
late  date,  but  in  this  matter  it  may  easily  reflect  earlier 
tradition. 

According  to  Moroni,  the  sacred  lance  is  still  preserved 
at  Rome ;  there  is,  however,  the  additional  statement  by 
the  same  authority  that  a  similar  lance  is  preserved  at 
Prague,  and  another  in  ISTorimbiga.^® 

The  lance,  then,  was  in  the  Middle  Ages,  according 
to  tradition,  an  object  of  veneration  and  reverence — one 
of  the  most  prized  of  the  cruciiixion  relics.  It  had 
miraculous  qualities ;  it  shone  by  night  as  the  sun  shines 
by  day:  it  blazed  when  proof  of  its  authenticity  was 
needed ;  it  healed  the  sick.  It  was  identified  with  the 
marvellous  weapons  of  kings;  it  brought  victory  in  bat- 
tle and  help  in  trouble. 

i3Z)e  Gesta  Regum  Anglorum,  Rolls  Series,  1887,  1,  150.  Cf. 
Gervase  of  Canterbury,  Rolls  Series,  1880,  II,  47,  and  Chron. 
Henry  Knighton,  Rolls  Series,  1889,  I,  20. 

14  La  Passion  de  notre  Seigneur,  d'aprgs  les  visions  d'Anne 
Catherine  Emmerich,  tr.  de  I'allemand,  quoted  by  I'AbbS  Profillet, 
Les  Saints  Militaires,  Paris,  1891. 

15  S.  C.  Malan,  Original  Documents  of  Coptic  Church,  1873,  p.  10, 
adds  yet  another  to  the  places  that  claim  possession  of  the  lance 
of  Longinus.  "His  spear-head,  without  the  shaft,  is  one  of  the 
relics  enshrined  in  the  Cathedral  of  Etchmiadziu,  where  it  was 
shown  me  not  long  ago." 


62  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


§2.       LONGINUS   AND    THE    LiTUKGY 

The  tendency  to  dwell  upon  the  physical  sufferings  of 
Jesus  is  conspicuously  illustrated,  as  we  have  seen,  in 
the  art  of  the  Eastern  church.  The  same  tendency  ap- 
pears also  in  the  Oriental  liturgy,  and  during  about  the 
same  period,  that  is,  from  the  fourth  to  the  ninth  cen- 
turies. In  Sophocles's  Greek  lexicon  of  the  Roman  and 
Byzantine  period,  B.  C.  146  to  A.  D.  1100,  ^^oyxn 
is  defined  as  follows:  "A  little  spear  with  which  the 
sacramental  bread  is  pierced  by  the  priest  in  commemo- 
ration of  the  piercing  of  the  side  of  Jesus."^®  This  "lit- 
tle spear"  assumed  large  importance  in  the  ritual  of  the 
mass.  JSTevertheless,  the  influence  of  the  story  of  Longi- 
nus  does  not  manifest  itself  in  the  liturgy  any  earlier 
than  in  the  other  records  already  considered. 

It  is  now  possible  to  examine  the  liturgy  of  the  church 
at  Jerusalem  as  early  as  the  fourth  century.^^  From  its 
general  character,  we  should  expect  to  find  some  mention, 
of  Longinus  and  his  act,  the  piercing  of  the  side  of 
Christ,  but  there  is  none.  The  fourth  century,  accord- 
ing to  Cabrol,  marked  a  most  important  transformation 
in  the  liturgy.  Up  to  that  time  the  Christians  had 
usually  held  their  religious  meetings  in  secret.  Under 
Constantino  they  met  openly.  Great  churches  were 
built,  "on  institua  des  processions ;  les  chants  et  les  autres 
parties  de  I'office  se  developperent."^^     He  adds  justly: 

16  E.  A.  Sophocles,  1870. 

"^T  Peregrinatio  Silviae  (Etheriae).  Reprinted  from  Bihl.  delV 
Accad.  storico  giuridica,  IV,  Rome,  1887,  in  Christian  Worship,  a 
Study  of  the  Latin  Liturgy  up  to  the  Time  of  Charlemagne,  by  L. 
Duchesne,  Eng.  Ed.,  London,  1904,  App.  pp.  490  ff. 

18  Les  Eglises  de  Jerusalem  au  IV  si^cle,  1895,  p.  31. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    KELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY        63 

"L'histoire  du  Seigneur  est  rappelee,  vecue  a  nouveau; 
c'est  un  drame  en  action,  c'est  presqiie,  a  certains  mo- 
ments, mais  avec  un  caractere  plus  grave,  le  mystere,  tel 
que  le  mojen  age  le  mettra  en  oeuvre  quelques  siecles 
plus  tard."^' 

Especially  significant  is  the  omission  of  all  reference 
to  Longinus  in  that  part  of  the  Good  Friday  service 
which  has  to  do  with  the  adoration  of  the  cross,  for  the 
feast  of  the  Adoration  or  Exaltation  of  the  Cross,  it 
should  be  remembered,  is  the  one  with  which  Longinus 
is  later  associated.^"  If  the  lance  had  attained  any  im- 
portance in  the  church  by  the  fourth  century,  it  would 
surely  have  found  mention  here  among  the  other  relics. 
The  following  account  of  the  Adoration  of  the  Cross  is 
given  by  Silvia: 

"Et  sic  ponitur  cathedra  episcopo  in  Golgotha  post  Crucem, 
quae  stat  nunc;  residet  episcopus  hie  cathedra;  ponitur  ante  eum 
mensa  sublinteata;  stant  in  giro  mensa  diacones;  et  affertur  lo- 
culus  argenteus  deauratus  in  quo  est  lignum  sanctum  crucis; 
aperitur  et  profertur;  ponitur  in  mensa  quam  lignum  crucis  quam 
titulus.  Cum  ergo  positum  fuerit  in  mensa,  episcopus  sedens  de 
manibus  suis  summitatis  de  ligno  sancto  premet;  diacones  autem 

19  Op.  cit.,  pp.  35,  36. 

20  Cf.  ^Ifric's  sermon  on  the  Exaltation  of  the  Cross,  p.  83  ff., 
the  first  vernacular  reference  to  Longinus  in  English  literature. 
The  feast  of  the  'Exaltation*  was  either  the  same  as  the  'Adora- 
tion,' or  early  became  fused  with  it.  S.  C.  Malan,  Hist,  of  Copts 
and  their  Church,  p.  38,  says  the  origin  of  the  'Exaltation  of  the 
Cross'  was  the  appearance  of  the  cross  to  Constantine.  The  feast 
is  celebrated  on  the  14  or  15  Sept.  Duchesne,  Origines  du  culte 
Chretien,  p.  124,  says  that  the  exaltation  without  doubt  was  intro- 
duced after  the  recovery  of  the  cross  by  Heraclius  in  the  year 
628.  On  p.  263  he  states  that  the  feast  of  the  cross,  14  Sept.,  is 
the  anniversary  of  the  dedication  of  the  Constantine  basilica  in 
335.  Attached  to  it  is  also  the  association  of  the  discovery  of  the 
true  cross.  It  was  an  occasion  that  drew  to  Jerusalem  a  great 
concourse  of  bishops,  monks,  and  pilgrims.     It  lasted  eight  days. 


64  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOXGINtPS 

qui  in  giro  stant  custodent.  Hoc  autem  propterea  sic  custoditur, 
quia  consuetude  est  ut  unus  et  unus  omnis  populus  veniens,  tarn 
fideles  quam  cathecumini,  acclinant  se  ad  mensam,  osculentur 
sanctum  lignum,  et  pertranseant.  ...  At  ubi  autem  osculati 
fuerint  crueem  [et]  pertransierint,  stat  diaconus,  tenet  anulum 
Salomonis  et  cornu  illud  de  quo  reges  unguebantur;  osculantur 
et  cornu  attendant  et  anulum.21 

!N"ot  until  the  seventh,  or  eighth  century,  in  fact,  does 
the  lance  appear  in  the  liturgy.  It  occupies  an  import- 
ant position  in  the  liturgy  of  Saint  Chrysostom,  for 
■which,  unfortunately,  it  is  impossible  to  give  an  exact 
date.  Swainson  thinks  the  Mass  of  the  Presanctified 
hardly  earlier  than  the  seventh  century.^'^  This  of  Chry- 
sostom is  a  little  later.^^  In  the  Mass  of  Chrysostom  we 
see  the  attempt  already  spoken  of,  to  reproduce  with  all 
its  symbolical  significance  the  suffering  of  Jesus  on  the 
cross: 

"Deinde  accipit  sacerdos  in  sinistra  manu  oblationem,  in  dex- 
tera  vero  sanctam  lanceam;  et  cum  ea  signum  faciens  supra 
sigillum  oblatae,  ter  dicit:  In  memoriam  Domini  et  Dei  et  Salva- 
toris  nostri  Jesu  Christi. 

Et  statim  infigit  sanctam  lanceam  in  dexteram  partem  sigilli, 
et  scindens  dicit:  Tamquam  ovis  ad  occisionem  ductus  est.  In 
sinistra  similiter  infigens  sanctam  lanceam  dicit:  Et  sicut  agnus 
sine  malitia  coram  tondente  se  sine  voce,  sic  non  aperit  os  suum. 

In  superiore  autem  parte  sigilli  infigens  sanctam  lanceam  dicit: 
In  humilitate  ejus  judicium  ejus  sublatum  est.  In  inferiori  etiam 
sigilli  parte  rursus  infigens  sanctam  lanceam  dicit:  generationem 
ejus  quis  enarrabit? 

21  Duchesne,  op.  cit.,  p.  510. 

22  Swainson,  The  Greek  Liturgies,  1884,  p.  xxviii. 

23  Op.  cit.,  p.  xxxvi.  The  Liturgy  is  not  assigned  to  Chrysostom 
in  the  oldest  Barberini  MS.  (Duchesne,  Origines  du  culte  chrest., 
p.  71,  states  that  Cod.  Barb.  no.  77  of  the  eighth  or  ninth  century 
is  the  oldest  MS  of  the  Byzantine  Liturgy.)  It  was  assigned  to 
Chrysostom  a  little  later. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    KELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY        65 

Diaconus  vero  in  qualibet  incisione  dicit:  Dominum  precemur. 
Tenens  autem  dextera  manu  stolam,  postea  dicit  diaconus:  Tolle, 
domine. 

Et  sacerdos  immittens  sanctam  lanceam,  ex  obliquo  dexterae 
partis  oblatae,  extollit  sanctum  panem,  sic  dicens:  quia  tollitur 
de  terra  vita  ejus  perpetuo,  nunc  et  semper,  et  in  saecula  saecu- 
lorum.  Amen.  Et  ponens  ipsum  sublimem  in  sancto  disco, 
postquam  dixit  diaconus,  Immola,  domine,  sacerdos  sacrificat  ilium 
in  modum  crucis,  dicens:  Immolatur  Agnus  Dei,  qui  tollit  pecca- 
tum  mundi,  pro  mundi  vita  et  salute.  Et  convertit  aliam  partem 
quae  habet  superne  crucem;  et  dicit  diaconus:  Punge,  domine. 

Sacerdos  autem  ipsum  in  dextera  pungens  cum  sancta  lancea 
dicit.  Et  unus  militum  lancea  latus  ejus  aperuit;  et  statim  exivit 
sanguis  et  aqua.24 

The  account  of  the  mass  found  in  Pseudo-Germanus 
is  also  interesting.     Here  the  name  of  Longinus  appears: 

Lancea  vice  est  ejus  quae  latus  Domini  punxit.  Lancea  ex- 
purgari,  significat  illud,  'tanquam  ovis  ad  occisionem  ductus  est,' 
etc.  Discus  lectica  est  in  qua  corpus  Domini  componitur  a  sa- 
cerdote  et  diacono,  qui  sunt  Joseph  et  Nicodemus  .  .  .  Vinum 
simul  et  aqua,  sunt  egressi  ex  latere  ejus  sanguis  et  aqua: 
quemadmodem  ait  propheta.  Panis  ei  dabitur  ad  cibum, 
et  aqua  ei  ad  potum  fidelem.  Nam  vice  lanceae  quae 
punxit  Christum  in  cruce  a  Longino,  est  haec  lancea,  etc.25 

The  symbolism  of  the  mass  is  explained  by  Theodorus 
Studites : 

Nonne  unguentum  sanctum  existimas  effusum  fuisse  ut  esset 
typus  Christi?  Sanctam  mensam  pro  vivifico  ipsius  sepulcro? 
Sindonem  quae  mensae  imponitur,  pro  sindone  qua  involutus 
sepulcro  mandatus  est?  Sacram  lanceam  pro  ea  qua  divinum 
ipsius  latus  apertum  fuit?  Spongiam  pro  ea,  qua  fuit  potatus 
felle?    Crucis  imaginem  pro  ligno  vivifico  ?26 

The  importance  of  the  lance  of  Longinus  in  the  liturgy 
is  illustrated  also  by  the  mass  of  the  Syrian  Jacobites. 

24  Pseudo-Chrysostom,  Paris,  1838,  XII,  1013. 

25  Pseudo-Germanus,  Migne,  Patrol.  Gr.  98,  col.  397. 

26  Patrol.  Gr.  99,  col.  489.  v 


66  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

It  is  in  part  similar  to  the  mass  of  Clirysostom,  There 
occurs  also  in  the  service  this  sentence:  "By  the  nails  in 
thy  hands  and  thy  feet,  by  the  spear  which  pierced  thy 
side,  pardon  me  mine  offences  and  my  sins."^' 

Another  striking  testimony  of  the  imposing  position 
of  the  lance  in  the  mass  of  the  Eastern  Church  is  given 
in  the  translation  from  Old-Slavonic  by  P.  Kuvochinsky: 

"Then  the  Priest  shall  take  the  Bread  into  the  left  hand,  and, 
holding  in  his  right  the  Holy  Spear,  shall  make  therewith  the 
sign  of  the  cross  above  the  seal  on  the  Bread,  saying: 

In  remembrance  of  our  Ood  and  Saviour  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
(Thrice). 

And  immediately  he  shall  thrust  the  spear  into  the  right  side 
of  the  Seal,  and  as  he  pierceth  it,  shall  say: 

He  loas  led  as  a  sheep  to  the  slaughter. 

And,  piercing  the  left,  he  shall  say: 

And  as  a  spotless  lamb  before  his  shearers  is  dumb,  so  opened 
He  not  his  lips. 

And  piercing  the  top,  shall  say: 

In  his  humiliation  His  judgment  was  taken  away. 

And  piercing  it  from  underneath,  shall  say: 

For  His  generation  who  shall  declare  it? 

And  the  Deacon,  gazing  reverently  at  the  Mystic  Rite,  holding 
his  stole  in  his  hand,  shall  say  at  each  incision: 

Let  us  pray  to  the  Lord. 

While  the  priest  thrusts  the  spear  obliquely  from  below  into  the 
right  side  of  the  Bread,  and  removes  the  part  upon  which  is  im- 
printed the  Seal,  the  Deacon  shall  say: 

Master,  take  it  hence,  for  This  Life  is  taken  from  the  earth. 

The  priest,  having  laid  it,  inverted,  upon  the  Paten,  and  the 
Deacon  having  said: 

Master,  make  the  sacrifice. 

He  shall  sacrifice  it,  cutting  it  crosswise,  and  say: 

Sacrificed  is  the  Lamb  of  Ood  who  taketh  away  the  sins  of  the 
world  for  the  life  of  the  world  and  its  salvation. 

He  shall  then  turn  upward  the  other  side,  which  beareth  upon 
it  the  emblem  of  the  cross,  and  shall  pierce  the  right  side  with 
the  spear,  while  the  Deacon  shall  say: 

27  F.  E.  Brightman,  Liturgies  Eastern  and  Western,  p.  107. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    KELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY        67 

Pierce,  Master. 

And  the  Priest  shall  say: 

One  of  the  soldiers  pierced  His  side  with  a  spear  and  there 
came  forth  blood  and  water,  and  he  that  saw  it  bare  witness  and 
his  witness  is  true.^^ 

In  discussing  the  symbolism  o£  tlie  liturgy,  Kuvoch- 
insky  notes  that  the  entrances  are  very  impressive :  "xit  the 
procession  of  the  Lesser  Entrance,  the  priest  comes  forth, 
followed  by  the  deacon,  who  carries  a  large  book  of  the 
Gospels  typifying  the  teaching  of  our  Lord."  The  Great 
Entrance,  the  carrying  of  the  elements  of  the  Prothesis 
to  the  altar,  contains  more  that  is  striking:  "It  symbolizes 
the  last  Advent  of  Christ  when  he  shall  come  with  glory. 
First  comes  the  reader  bearing  a  high  candlestick  with  a 
lighted  candle.  After  this  follow  the  deacon  or  deacons 
in  order,  symbolizing  the  ranks  of  angels.  Then  come 
those  who  bear  the  Holy  Gifts.  If  there  be  more  than 
one  present,  each  of  the  rest  holds  a  sacred  object — ^the 
cross,  the  spoon,  the  spear.  "^^ 

These  instances  of  the  reverence  shown  the  lance  in 
the  comparatively  early  history  of  the  Church,  grow  in 
suggestiveness  in  the  light  of  the  increasing  importance 
of  the  relic  in  the  Middle  Ages,  culminating  in  the  four- 
teenth century  in  the  "Feast  of  the  Nails  and  the 
Lance."'" 

The  extravagant  feeling  of  the  time  endowed  the  lance 
with  contradictory  powers.     On  the  one  hand  it  was  a 

28  The  Liturgy  of  the  Graeco-Russian  Church,  trans,  from  Old 
Slavonic  by  P.  Kuvochinsky,  London,  1909,  pp.  33  £f.  Cf.  also 
The  Office  of  the  Prothesis,  Neale,  Hist,  of  Holy  Eastern  Church, 
1850,  p.  344. 

29  P.  Kuvochinsky,  op.  cit.,  p.  xxii. 

30  Jo.  Henr.  a  Seelen,  De  Festo  Lanceae  et  Clavorum,  Misc. 
Lubecae,  1734,  p.  347.  Cf.  J.  C.  Thilo,  Codex  Apoc.  Novi  Test., 
note  p.  587.     Cf.  also  Mone,  Lat.  Hymnen  des  Mittelalt,  I,  175. 


68  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

weapon,  world-conquering,  flesk-subduing,  devil-banish- 
ing— an  instrument  of  vengeance,  to  be  used  against 
those  hostile  to  Christ.  On  the  other,  it  was  honored  as 
a  blessed  deliverer,  which  had  opened  a  fountain  of 
grace;  it  was  the  means  bj  which  the  Church  had  issued 
forth  from  Christ's  wounded  side,  the  bride  from  the 
side  of  the  bridegroom;  it  was  also  a  sacrificial  imple- 
ment which  had  wounded  the  heart  of  the  Redeemer,  ia 
order  that  the  heart  of  the  sinner  might  be  healed.  A 
fourteenth  century  sermon  of  Henricus  de  Hansia  illus- 
trates well  this  somewhat  complex  attitude  toward  the 
lance : 

"Videte  arma  salutis,  crucem,  lanceam  &  clavos.  Videte  char- 
acteres  vietorie,  quorum  contemplatione  vincitur  mundus,  caro 
compescitur,  conterretur  demonium.  .  .  .  Lancea  equidem  aqua  & 
sanguine  dedicata  lateris  Christi,  que  nobis  thesaurum  pretiosum 
de  profundo  Cordis  Dei  effodit,  que  fontem  gratiarum  clausum 
effluere  fecit,  que  sponsam  de  latere  sponsi  formauit,  que  cor  vul- 
nerauit  redemptoris,  ut  cor  sanaretur  peccatoris." 

"Surgite  in  aduersarios  Christi,  extrahite  gladium  lanceam  In 
turbatores  pacis,  erigite  hastam,  vibrate  lanceam  defensari  eccle- 
siam,  que  de  Christi  latere  eflBuxit  lancea  perforati,  eft'undite  iram 
vestram,  inimiciciam  non  in  subjectos  Christianos,  sed  in  gentes, 
que  Christum  non  nouerunt  &  in  regna,  que  nomen  eius  non 
inuocauerunt,  vestraque  arma  Christi  ne  teneatis  ociosa,  neque 
splendorem  fulgurantis  haste  triumphalis  Jesu  Christi  rubigi- 
nare  permittatis  etc."32 

It  is  possible  to  judge  from  the  comment  made  by 
Seelen,  who  quotes  this  sermon,  just  how  far  veneration 
of  the  lance  itself  went.  He  attempts  in  every  way  to 
show  how  impious  the  cult  of  the  nails  and  lance  came 
to  be.  He  quotes  from  Bishop  Luitprand's  account  of 
Otto:  "Eex  sese  cum  omni  populo  lacrymas  fundens 
ante  victoriferos   Clauos   manibus   Domini   nostri   J.    C. 

32  Cf.  Seelen,  pp.  380-383. 


THE    LANCE    AS    A    RELIC    AND    IN    THE    LITURGY        60 

affixes,  suaeque  Lanciae  impositos  in  orationem  dedit, 
quantumque  iusti  viri  tunc  valeret  oratio,  res  manifesta 
probauit,  Eo  namque  orante  quum  ex  suis  nuUus  occum- 
beret  hostes  sunt  omnes  in  fugam  conuersi  etc.^^  And 
again,  from  Krantznis,  who  is  speaking  of  Henry:  "Sac- 
ram  Lanceam  venerabundus  flexis  genibus  adomuerit."^* 
And,  further,  without  direct  quotation:  "Urspergensis 
quoque  in  Hist.  Ottonis  I  egregiam  eius  victoriam,  quam 
modo  memorauimus,  Lanceae  ab  ipso  adoratae  refert  ac- 
ceptam.^^  Seelen  condemns  especially  the  superstition 
that  by  worship  of  the  lance  victory  is  obtained,"''®  and 
deroions  are  brouglit  to  nought. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  other  evidences  of  the  currency 
of  these  beliefs  about  the  lance  in  the  Middle  Ages.  As 
a  victory-bringing  weapon  it  is  identified  with  the  mar- 
vellous weapons  of  heroes;  as  an  object  which  gives  power 
over   evil    spirits,    it   becomes    important    in    spells    and 

33  Luitprandus,  Be  Rebus  Oestis  Ottonis  Magni  (960-4),  loc.  cit., 
p.  134;  cf.  Seelen,  372. 

34  Krantznis,  loc.  cit.,  p.  73;  cf.  Seelen,  372. 

35  Seelen,  p.  372. 

36  In  this  worship  of  the  spear  itself,  there  are  interesting  non- 
Christian  parallels,  which  suggest  that  the  practice  was  an  old 
one  Christianized.  A.  Wilder,  in  his  edition  of  R.  P.  Knight's 
Symbolical  Language  of  Ancient  Art  and  Mythology,  pp.  114,  115, 
gives  a  note  on  the  subject.  He  quotes  Plutarch,  Romulus:  "In 
Rhegium  a  spear  was  set  up  and  worshipped  as  Ares,  or  Mars." 
Justin,  Hist.  XLIII,  3:  "From  the  beginning,  the  ancients  have 
worshipped  spears  as  emblems  of  the  immortal  gods."  "Herodo- 
tus also  declares  that  the  Scythians  erect  an  iron  scimiter  as  the 
effigy  of  Mars,  and  offer  to  it  more  sacrifices  than  to  all  the  other 
gods  of  the  pantheon.  The  Getae,  Goths,  Alans  and  Sarmatians 
also  worshipped  a  sword,  as  Ammianus  Marcellinus  declares 
(XXXI,  2):  'Their  only  idea  of  religion  is  to  plunge  a  naked 
sword  into  the  ground,  with  barbarous  rites,  and  worship  it  as 
Mars.' " 


70  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOXGIIS'US 

charms;    as   a   death-dealing  instrument   of   sacrifice,   it 
becomes  the  symbolic  weapon  used  in  the  mass. 

The  deed  of  Longinus  was  not  only  kept  before  the 
minds  of  the  people  of  the  Middle  Ages  by  the  presence 
of  the  lance  in  the  mass,  and  by  the  special  feast  days — 
such  as  the  "Exaltation  of  the  Cross,"  and  the  "Feast  of 
the  ISTails  and  the  Lance."  They  were  reminded  of  it 
also  by  such  prayers  as  this,  from  The  Book  of  Nunna- 
rtiinster,  which  dates  from  the  eighth  century. 

(fol.  30a)  De  latere  domini. 

O  medicinae  diuinae  mirabilis  dispensator  qui  tibi  lancea  latus 
aperire  permisisti,  Aperi  mihi  quaeso  pulsanti  ianuam  uitae,  in- 
gressusque  per  earn  confitebor  tibi  per  tui  uulnus  lateris  omnium 
uitiorum  meorum  [fol.  30b]  uulnera  per  misericordiae  tuae  medi- 
camen  sana,  Ne  umquam  indignus  presumptor  tui  corporis  et  san- 
guinis reus  eflBciar,  Pro  meritis  propriis  meorum  peccatorum, 
Sed  ut  anima  mea  miserationum  tuarum  abundantia  repleata,  Ut 
qui  mihi  es  pretium  ipse  sis  et  praemium,  Domine  Jhesu  Uhristl, 
Amen.37 

37  Printed  by  W.  de  Grey  Birch,  An  Ancient  MS  of  the  Eighth 
or  Ninth  Century  (Hampshire  Record  Society,  1889),  p.  77.  I  do 
not  know  how  ancient  the  following  "parodies"  to  be  used  on 
Good  Friday  are: 

Ad  sanctum  Longinum  Qui  uno  lanceae  ictu  Jesu  cor,  d  Mariae 
animam  pertransiuit. 

Ave  Mariae  animae,  et  Jesu  cordis  lanceator  sanctissime 
Longine.  Magna  misericordia,  mira  dementia,  &  gratia  plena 
Dominus  tecum  functus  est.  Tu  ei  dira  lancea  vulnerasti  prae- 
clarum  cor,  &  purissimam  matris  animam:  &  Ipse  tibi  pretioso 
sanguine  sanauit  caecum  oculum,  &  faedam  animam:  &  fecit  te 
suum  Eremitam,  Episcopum,  &  Martyrem,  Benedictus  tu  inter 
omnes  Christi  milites,  pontifices,  &  confessores,  &  benedictus  fruc- 
tus  lanceae  tuae  Jesu  ex  latere  emanatus,  Ecclesiae  nempe  eximia 
Sacramenta,  quae  cum  sanguine,  &  aqua  ab  illo  exierunt.  Sanc- 
tissime Longine  fac  ut  lancea  tua  clauis  adaperiens  tatoruu  the- 
sauroru  ostium  &  gladius  doloris  pertransiens  animam  sanctae 
Mariae  matris  Dei,  sit  pro  nobis  peccatoribus  nunc  gladius  doloris, 
quo  ploremus  scelera  nostra,  &  passionem  Domini  nostri  Jesu 
Christi,  eiusque  Matris,  &  in  hora  mortis  nostrae  sit  clauis  adape- 


THE  LANCE  AS  A  EELIC  AND  IN  THE  LITURGY   Tl 

The  lance,  it  has  been  shown,  early  became  important 
in  the  liturgy  of  the  Eastern  Church,  There  the  whole 
passion  scene  was  re-enacted.  The  sacrificial  significance 
was  emphasized  as  strongly  as  possible,  and  the  ceremony 
itself  made  dramatic  largely  by  the  use  of  the  lance. 
The  reverence  paid  the  lance  grew  until  it  resulted  in 
open,  superstitious  adoration  of  the  crucifixion  relic,  as 
a  sacred  object  considered  powerful  and  miracle  work- 
ing in  itself,  when  the  whole  practice  was  condemned  by 
the  Church. 


ries  [sici  iannas  regni  Caelorum,  ubi  sunt  thesauri  indificientes 
[sic]:  &  satiabimur  gloria,  &  gaudiis  sempiternis  Amen.  Ave 
Maria  Parodiis,  C.  Tomasio,  Rome,  166  [4?],  p.  85. 

The  above  I  owe  to  the  kindness  of  Mr.  Stephen  Gaselee,  Pepy- 
sian  Librarian,  Magdalene  College,  Cambridge. 


CHAPTER  V 
LONGINUS  AKD   CHARMS 

The  charms  with  which  we  find  the  name  of  Longinus 
connected  are  another  evidence  of  the  fusion  in  the  Mid- 
dle Ages  of  Christian  legendary  and  heathen  customs. 
"What  maintained  the  use  of  the  spell-prayer  in  full 
vigour  throughout  the  earlier  and  mediaeval  epochs  of 
Christendom,  even  in  the  orthodox  ritual,"  Famell  tells  us, 
"was  chiefly  the  practice  of  exorcism  and  the  belief  in 
demons  and  demoniac  possession;  and  the  legal  institu- 
tion of  the  ordeal  contributed  also  to  its  maintenance."^ 

The  spirit  of  the  Leech  Books  is,  however,  for  the  most 
part,  Christian.  The  church  was  hostile  toward  charms, 
which  were  thought  to  be  connected  with  pagan  idola- 
try— the  work  of  evil  spirits  and  demons.  In  conse- 
quence charms  were  met  by  counter  charms.  Invocations 
t-y  spirits  and  the  occult  powers  of  nature  were  replaced 
by  invocations  to  Christ  and  the  saints.^ 

That  charms  of  the  same  general  character  as  these  of 
the  Middle  Ages,  are  of  high  antiquity  is  shown  by  Baby- 
lonian and  Assyrian  religious  literature.  Professor  Jas- 
trow  comments  on  the  great  number  of  "texts  containing 
formulas  and  directions  for  securing  a  control  over  the 
spirits  which  were  supposed  at  all  times  to  be  able  to 
exercise  a  certain  amount  of  power  over  men."^  The 
charms,  or  incantations,  themselves,  he  characterizes  as 

1  Famell,  The  Evolution  of  Religion,  1905,  p.  230. 

2  J.  F.  Payne,  Eng.  Medicine  in  A.  S.  Times,  1904,  pp.  109,  110. 

3  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  p.  253. 

72 


LONGINUS    AXD    CHARMS  73 

"appeals  interspersed  with  words  of  a  more  or  less  mys- 
tic character."* 

IsTotwithstanding  the  fact  that  charms  are  of  such  high 
antiquity,  I  have  found  only  one  English  charm  concern- 
ing Longinus  that  has  come  do^vn  to  us  in  Anglo-Saxon. 

Wip  gestice. 

Wri]?  Cristes  mal  and  sing  J>riwe  J^aeron  Ipis  and  pater  noster, 
longinus  miles  lancea  ponxit  dominum  et  restitet  sanguis  et  re- 
cessit  dolor.o 

Perhaps  the  most  interesting  of  the  Longinus  charms, 
because  of  its  suggestion  of  ancient  tradition,  though 
itself  belonging  to  the  Middle  English  period,  is  this 
against  the  toothache: 

A  charme  for  the  tethe-werke. 

Say  the  charme  thris,  to  it  be  sayd  IX  times,  and  ay  thris  at  a 
charemynge. 

I  conjoure  the,  laythely  beste,  with  that  ilke  spare 
That  Longious  in  his  hand  gan  here. 
And  also  with  ane  hatte  of  thorne 
That  one  my  Lord's  hede  was  borne. 
With  alle  the  wordis  mare  and  lesse, 
"With  the  Office  of  the  Messe, 
/    With  my  Lorde  and  his  XII  postilles, 
With  oure  Lady  and  her  X,  maydenys, 
Saynt  Margrete,  the  haly  quene, 
Saynt  Katerin,  the  haly  virgyne, 
IX  tymes  goddis  forbott  thou  wykkyde  worme. 
That  ever  thou  make  any  rystynge, 
Bot  awaye  mote  thou  wende. 
To  the  erde  and  the  staneis 

^Ibid.,  p.  283. 

5  Cockayne,  Leechdoms,  I,  393;  cf.  Brand,  Popular  Antiquities, 
p.  279;  W.  G.  Black,  Folk-Medicine,  p.  80  (Polk-Lore  Society, 
XII);  Payne,  op.  cit.,  p.  130. 

Q Reliquiae  Antiquae,  I,  126  ("Paper  MS.  Lincoln  Cathedral  A. 
1,  17,  compiled  by  Robt.  Thornton  1430-1440").  cf.  Horstmann, 
R.  Rolle,  I,  375. 


74  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

This  idea  of  the  worm  as  the  cause  of  toothache  goes 
back  to  Babylonia.  Rogers  says  in  this  connection :  "Of 
all  the  literature  of  incantations  perhaps  no  single  piece 
has  more  human  interest  than  the  so-called  legend  of 
the  worm." 

"After  Anu  [had  created  the  Heavens] 

The  Heavens  created  [the  Earth] 

The  Earth  created  the  Rivers 

The  Rivers  created  the  Canals, 

The  Canals  created  the  Marshes, 

The  Marshes  created  the  Worm. 

Then  came  the  Worm  to  weep  before  Shamasb 

Before  Ea  came  her  tears: — 

'What  wilt  thou  give  me  for  my  food, 

What  wilt  thou  give  me  to  destroy?' 

'I  will  give  thee  dried  bones, 

(And)    scented wood!' 

'What  are  these  dried  bones  to  me. 

And  scented wood!' 

Let  me  drink  among  the  teeth, 

And  set  me  on  the  gums  (?), 

That  I  may  devour  the  blood  of  the  teeth 

And  of  their  gums  destroy  the  strength; 

Then  shall  I  hold  the  bolt  of  the  door"? 

One  wonders  how  a  charm  for  the  toothache  became 
associated  with  Longinus.  The  connection  may  be  due 
to  the  fact  that  spear-throwers  were  used  in  folk  medicine 
in  the  cure  of  the  ailment.  Frazer,  in  discussing  the 
transference  of  evil  says:  "To  cure  the  toothache  some 
of  the  Australian  blacks  apply  a  heated  spear-thrower  to 
the  cheek.  The  spear-thrower  is  then  cast  away,  and  the 
toothache  goes  with  it,  in  the  shape  of  a  black  stone 
called  harriitch."^     This  custom  probably  goes  back  to 

7R.  W.  Rogers,  Religion  of  Ba'bylonia  and  Assyria,  1908,  pp. 
155,  156.  J 

8  Golden  Bough,  II,  149. 


LONGINUS    AND    CHARMS  75 

early  times  and  may,  I  think,  explain  how  Longinus  and 
his  lance  became  connected  with  the  charm,  the  spear 
naturally  suggesting  to  the  christianizing  agent  the  fa- 
mous Christian  spearman. 

The  charms  in  which  the  name  of  Longinus  appears 
most  frequently  are  those  for  the  staimching  of  blood. 
Sometimes  his  own  miraculous  healing  is  refei*red  to, 
though  no  direct  connection  is  made  between  his  case  and 
that  of  the  person  for  whom  the  charm  is  used. 

(1)  To  Staunch  Bleeding. 

"A  soldier  of  old  thrust  a  lance  into  the  side  of  the  Sa- 
viour; immediately  there  flowed  thence  blood  and  water — the 
blood  of  Redemption  and  the  water  of  Baptism.  In  the  name 
of  the  Father  J^  may  the  blood  cease.  In  the  name  of  the  Son  ^ 
may  the  blood  remain.  In  the  name  of  the  Holy  Ghost  .J.  may  no 
more  blood  flow  from  the  mouth,  the  vein,  or  the  nose."9 

(2)  ffor  to  stawnche  hlode. 

"fferst  haue  the  name  of  the  man  or  of  the  woman  than  go  to 
chirche  and  sey  this  charme  and  loke  thow  sey  hit  but  for  man 
or  woman  devoutly.  When  oure  lord  jhesus  Cryst  was  don  on 
the  cros  than  longius  come  thedir  and  stange  hym  witft-  hys 
spere  in  the  syde — blod  and  watir  com  out  at  the  wownde  he 
wypid  his  eyene  an  saw  anon  thorow  the  holy  vertu  that  god 
showede.  y  coniure  the  blode  that  thou  come  nozt  owt  of  this 
cristyn  man  and  nomme  the  manys  name  twyes  =/  =/  or  her 
name.  In  nomine  patris  .J*  et  filii^et  spiritus  sancti  4.  Amen. 
Say  is  charme  thryes  ne  dar  the  neuer  recche  wher  the  man  or  the 
woman  be  so  thow  know  his  name  or  her."io 

9W.  G.  Black,  Folk  Medicine,  pp.  79,  80  (MS.  Liher  Loci  Bene- 
dicti  de  Whally,  1296-1346);  cf.  Trin.  Coll.  Cambr.  MS.  O.  9,  26 
(James  1438),  fol.  4b. 

lOAshmol.  MS  1443  (fol.  101).  Cf.  Holthausen,  Anglia  xix,  80, 
for  an  almost  identical  charm;  cf.  also  O.  Ebermann,  "Blut-  u. 
Wundsegen,"  Palaestra,  xxiv,  46,  for  a  slightly  different  text. 


76  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

(3)  Charme  for  [ifo]  staunche  Mod. 

"Longeys  let  our  lord  Jesum  Crizst  blod,  which  blod  was  holy 
and  god.  Thorw  tha^  iche  blod  thai  is  holy  and  good,  I  comawnde 
J?e,  Jon  or  W.,  J>at  J>ow  blede  no  more."ii 

Many  others  show  some  confusion,  being  united,  as 
Ebermann  has  pointed  out,  with  the  Jordan  charm/^  In 
Ashmolean  MS  1418  (Part  IV,  f.  14)  there  occurs  the 
following  charm: 

(4)  for  to  staunche  hlood. 

"Longeus  that  worthy  knyght  with  a  spere  he  persed  the  syde  of 
our  lord,  and  anon  ther  went  out  blod  and  watter,  the  blod  of 
redemption,  the  watter  baptism  .J.  In  the  name  of  the  father  rest 
blod,  in  the  name  of  the  sone  cese  <^  blod,  .J.  m  the  name  of  the 
holy  gost  goo  out  no  drope  of  blod,  as  veryly  as  we  beleve  that 
our  lady  mary  is  truly  the  mother  of  god,  and  as  verely  as  she 
bare  her  sone  Crist,  so  hold  you  still  vaines  and  blod,  and  so 
rest  blod  as  the  watter  of  Jordaine  rested  when  Crist  was  baptized 
in  that  watter,  so  rest  blod  in  the  name  of  the  blessed  trenyte." 

Here  the  Longinus  charm  has  been  combined  with  some 
such  charm  as  this: 

Charm  to  stop  'bleeding. 
Our  Saviour  Christ  was  born  in  Bethlehem, 
And  was  baptized  in  the  river  of  Jordan: 
The  waters  were  mild  of  mood. 
The  child  was  meek,  gentle,  and  good. 
He  struck  it  with  a  rod  and  still  it  stood, 
And  so  shall  thy  blood  stand, 
In  the  name  etc. 

Say  these  words  thrice,  and  the  Lord's  Prayer  once.is 

iiAwgrZia  xix,  80,  "Rezepte,  Segen  u.  Zauberspriiche  aus  zwei 
Stockholmer  Handschriften."  (second  half  of  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury).    O.  Ebermann,  op.  cit.,  p.  46. 

12  Op.  cit.,  47.  Here  are  found  also  a  number  of  German  Lon- 
ginus charms. 

13  W.  Henderson,  Folk-lore  of  the  Northern  Counties  of  Eng- 
land, p.  169;  cf.  W.  G.  Black,  Folk-Medicine,  p.  76. 


LOA^GINUS    AND    CHARMS  77 

(5)  Charme  for  to  Staunche  Blood. 

Longinus  miles  latus  ^  domini  nostri  .J.  Ihesu  Chrisfi  .J.  lancea 
perforauit,  &  continuo  exiuit  sanguis  et  aqua  in  redemptionem 
nostram  .J.  Adiuro  te  sanguis  per  J^  ihesum.  .J.  Christum  per  ^ 
latus  eius  per  ^  sanguine  eius,  sta  J^  sta  ^  sta  .J..  Chris^ws  et 
Johannes  descenderunt  in  flumen  iordanis.  Aqua  obstipuit  & 
stetit.  Sic  faciat  sanguis  istius  corporis.  In  .J.  Chrtsti  nomine  4. 
et  Sancti  Johannis  Baptiste.     Amen,  &  dicat  ter  pater  noster.i4 

(6)  A  charm  for  the  hlody  fiyxe. 

In  nomine  Patris  et  Filli  et  Spiritus  sancti, 

Amen!  Stabat  Ihesus  contra  flumen  Jordanus  et  posuit  pedem 
suum  et  dixit,  "Sancta  aqua  per  Deum!  Te  conjuro,  Longinus 
miles,  latus  Domini  nostri  Jeshu  Christi,  lancea  perforavit  et 
continuo  exivit  sanguis  et  aqua  sanguis  redempcionis,  aqua 
baptismatis.  In  nomine  Patris,  cessit  sanguis!  In  nomine  Filii 
recessit  sanguis!  In  nomine  Spiritus  Sancti  non  exeat  sanguis 
gutta  ab  hoc  famulo  Dei,  sicut  credimus  quod  sancta  Maria  vera 
mater  est  et  verum  infantum  genuit  Christum,  sic  retineantur 
vene  quam  plene  sunt  sa'nguine;  sic  restat  sanguis  sicut  resticit 
Jordanus  quum  Christus  in  eo  baptizatus  fuerat.  In  nomine 
Patris  et  Filii  etc.is 

A  different  type  is  found  in  charms  to  draw  iron  out 
of  wounds.  It  is  not  difficult  to  see  how  Longinus  should 
have  come  to  be  connected  with  these. 

(1)  "A  Notable  charme  or  medicine  to  pull  out  an  ar- 
rowhead, or  anie  such  thing  that  sticJceth  in  the  flesh  or 
hones,  and  cannot  othenvise  be  had  out. 

Sale  three  severall  times  kneeling:  Oremus,  praeceptis  salu- 
taribus  moniti,  Pater  noster  ave  Maria.  Then  make  a  cross 
saieing:  The  Hebrew  knight  strake  our  Lord  Jesu  Christ,  and  I 
beseech  thee,  0  Lord  Jesu  Christ  by  the  same  iron  speare,  bloud 

14  MS  of  the  time  of  Edw.  IV.  Notes  and  Queries,  IV,  (7tli 
ser.)  56. 

^^  Reliquiae  Antiquae,  I,  315;  cf.  Palaestra  XXIV,  47,  for  a 
slightly  different  charm  without  English  title. 


Y8  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

and  water,  to  pull  out  this  iron.    In  nomine  patris  &  filii  & 
Bpiritus  sanctiA^ 

(2)     to  draw  out  Yren  d6  Quarell. 

"Longlnus  Miles  Ebreus  percussit  latus  Domini  nostri  Jesu 
Christi:  sanguis  exuit  etiam  latus;  ad  se  traxit  lancea ^ tetra- 
gramaton  ^  Messyas  ^  Sother  Emanuel  ^  Sabaoth  ^  Adonay  J^ 
Unde  sicut  verba  (ista  fuerunt  verba).  Christi,  sic  exeat  ferrum 
istud  sine  quarellum  ab  isto  Christiano.  Amen.  And  sey  thys 
Charme  five  tymes  in  the  worschip  of  the  fyve  woundys  of 
Chryst."i7 

A  curious  French  charm  of  the  thirteenth  century  is 
found  in  a  Cambridge  MS: 

"Treis  bons  freres  estoient  ke  aloient  al  mont  d'Olivet  por 
coillir  herbes  bones  a  plaie  &  a  garison.  Et  ancontrerent  nostra 
Seignor  Jesu  Crist,  &  nostre  Seignor  lor  demanda:  "Treis  bons 
freres,  ou  alez  vous?  &  il  responderent:  'Al  mont  d'Olivet  por 
coillir  herbes  de  plaie  &  de  garison.'  Et  Nostre  Sire  dit  a  eus: 
"Venez  o  moi,  &  me  grantez  en  bone  fei  ke  vous  nel  diez  a  nul 
home  ne  a  femme  ne  aprendrez:  Pernez  oile  d'olive  &  leine  ke 
unkes  ne  fust  lavee,  &  metez  sor  la  plaie.'  Quaunt  Longins  I'ebreu 
aficha  la  launce  en  le  coste  nostre  seignor  Jesu  Crist,  cele  plaie  ne 
seigna,  ele  n'emfla  point;  ele  ne  puoit  mie,  ele  ne  doloit  mie,  ele 
ne  rencla  mie,  el  n'eschaufa  mie.  Ausi  ceste  plaie  ne  seine  mes, 
n'emfle  point,  ne  pue  mie,  ne  doile  mie,  ne  rancie  point,  n'eschaufe 
mie.  En  le  nun  del  Piere,  el  nom  del  Fiz,  el  nun  del  Seint  Espirlt. 
Pater  Noster  treis  fois."i8 

The  Longinus  ballad  in  AVales,  cited  in  part  in  an- 
other connection,^®  is  also  of  the  nature  of  a  charm  as  is 
shown  by  the  context.     In  a  note  the  editor  adds:     "The 

16  Reginald  Scot,  The  Discoverie  of  Witchcraft,  1st  ed.  1584;  ed. 
B.  Nicholson,  Lond.  1886,  pp.  219,  20.  Incomplete  in  Ebermann, 
op.  cit.,  50. 

17  W.  G.  Black,  op.  cit.,  p.  79.  Without  English  beginning  and 
ending  in  Ebermann,  op.  cit.,  p.  48. 

18  P.  Meyer,  "Les  MSS  Frangais  de  Cambridge,  Trinity  College," 
Romania  xxxii,  77. 

19  Cf.  p.  1G4. 


LONGINUS    AND    CH.VRMS  T9 

poem  goes  on  to  express  the  notion  of  Mary's  dominion 
over  Purgatory;  'Over  the  mountain,  the  cold  mountain, 
I  saw  Mary  with  a  halo  about  her  head  establishing  a 
place  betwixt  every  soul  and  hell:'  and  promises  immu- 
nity from  evil  dreams  to  such  as  record  and  say  the 
lines."'" 


20Robt.  Owen,  Sanctorale  CathoUcum,  142.  Owen  adds,  Lon- 
ginus  is  called  in  Brittany  "Longius  am  dall,"  the  blind.  This 
recalls  a  Spanish  expression,  "el  finzido  Longinos,"  applied  to  beg- 
gars pretending  to  be  blind.  El  Donado  hablador,  novella  del 
Doctor  J.  de  Alcala  (1624),  p.  510. 


CHAPTER  VI 

LOKGINUS  IN  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

In  English  literature  the  story  of  Longinus  appears 
frequently.  From  the  tenth  to  the  sixteenth  centuries^ 
his  legend  is  found  in  every  type  of  literary  production. 
Naturally  the  metrical  Lives  of  the  Saints,  or  Festials, 
find  place  for  so  popular  a  legend.  The  early  sermons 
for  feast  days  that  were  drawn  from  these  festials  like- 
wise include  his  story.  Later  mystic  homilists  of  the 
Richard  Rolle  type  show  little  interest  in  the  martyrdom 
of  Longinus,  but  in  directing  attention  to  the  suffering 
of  Christ  on  the  cross  and  to  the  divine  love  that  would 
sacrifice  itself  for  the  happiness  of  sinful  man,  they  dwell 
on  the  divine  act  itself — the  sheddiug  of  the  blood  of  re^ 
demption  and  the  miraculous  water  of  baptism;  and  so 
celebrating  the  deed,  they  recall  also  the  spearman  inti- 
mately connected  \vith  it.  The  emphasis  is  shifted  ac- 
cording to  the  mood  of  the  writer,  from  the  wicked,  dolor- 
ous act  which  showed  the  ingratitude  of  man  for  the  great 
sacrifice  made  by  Jesus,  to  the  blessed  consequences  which 
followed  the  stroke  of  tlie  spear.  The  blood  of  Christ  shed 
at  the  crucifixion  of  the  Saviour  became  through  the 
church  the  sustenance  of  man  and  the  means  of  making 
him  one  with  God.     Occasionally  Longinus's  legend   is 

1  It  is  surprising  to  note  that  Longinus  has  been  made  the  sub- 
ject of  a  nineteenth  century  English  poem.  Aubrey  de  Vere 
{Legends  and  Records  of  the  Church  and  Empire,  1887,  p.  33)  has 
turned  back  to  the  old  martyrologies  for  inspiration,  and  written 
the  life  of  Saint  Longinus,  without,  however,  giving  the  old  story 
any  fresh  turn.  It  is  a  more  or  less  mechanical  rehearsal  of  the 
events  in  the  life  of  the  martyr. 
80 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  81 

used  to  illustrate  the  great  mercy  of  Jesus  in  granting 
pardon,  and  confirming  it  by  a  miracle  of  healing,  even 
at  the  moment  when  Longinus  was  depriving  him  of  life. 

From  these  sermons — ^themselves  more  or  less  lyric 
expressions  of  the  ardent  love  of  his  followers  for 
Jesus, — it  is  an  easy  step  to  the  definite  lyrical  type 
found  in  the  Hours  of  the  Cross,  the  Meditations  on  the 
Passion,  the  Sorrows  of  the  Virgin,  and  to  the  pure  lyric 
which  has  for  its  burden  divine  love. 

In  addition  to  these  special  types  of  religious  literature, 
there  are  the  narrative  poems  on  the  Passion,  which  deal  at 
length  with  the  sufferings  of  Jesus,  into  which  laments, 
meditations  and  lyrics  are  introduced. 

Closely  related  to  these  passion  poems  stands  the  treat- 
ment of  the  life  and  sufferings  of  the  Saviour  in  the  relig- 
ious drama.  Here  the  legend  of  Longinus  becomes  of 
great  importance,  enabling  the  dramatist,  as  it  does,  to 
represent  in  fullest  reality  the  agony  of  Jesus  on  the 
crpss,  the  divine  grace  shown  by  Jesus  to  his  chief  tor- 
mentor, and  the  establishment  through  the  suffering  of 
Jesus  of  the  church  as  his  representative  on  earth. 

Longinus  is  likewise  introduced  into  the  crusading 
romances  that  have  to  do  with  the  regaining  of  the  Holy 
Land,  or  the  relics  of  Christ's  passion,  from  the  heathen. 
All  relics  in  the  Middle  Ages  were  venerated  and  be- 
lieved to  possess  miraculous  power;  but  those  connected 
with  the  passion  itself  were  of  the  greatest  significance, 
as  precious  in  themselves,  and  as  retaining  somewhat  the 
divine  power  of  Jesus  himself.  In  the  Middle  Ages  no 
dividing  line  was  drawn  between  religious  and  secular 
literature.  Consequently,  a  legend,  popular  in  one  kind 
of  writing,  was  inevitably  carried  over  into  the  other. 
As  a  result  saints  and  martyrs  became  heroes  of  romance. 


82  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

and  heathen  gods  and  heroes  became  Christian  saints,  with 
feast  days  in  the  calendar  of  the  church.  Christian  expla- 
nations attached  themselves  to  the  productions  of  pagan 
art.  Heathen  charms  were  transformed  into  Christian 
exorcisms.  Mary  took  the  place  in  secular  song  of  the 
lover's  mistress ;  Jesus  replaced  the  earthly  lover.  There 
is  no  distinction  in  types  used;  whether  in  secular  love- 
lyric,  vision  poem,  dirge,  romance  or  drama,  the  religious 
writer  employed  exactly  the  same  forms,  frequently  with 
only  the  slightest  modification. 

jSTot  only  is  the  legend  of  Longinus  embodied  in  every 
literary  type  known  in  the  IMiddle  Ages ;  it  is  found  in 
the  writings  of  the  great,  as  well  as  in  those  of  the  obscure. 
The  author  of  Piers  Plowman,  Chaucer,  Lydgate,  all  made 
use  of  the  familiar  story. ^ 

1  Interesting  as  showing  its  very  general  employment  for  all 
kinds  of  purposes,  is  the  appearance  of  Longinus  in  a  poem  'writ- 
ten by  Walter  Map,  when  Archdeacon  of  Oxford,  against  the 
Cistercians.  According  to  Giraldus  Cambrensis  (Opera  IV,  219) 
Map's  ill-feeling  toward  the  Cistercians  was  due  to  some  trouble 
he  had  with  them  over  the  rights  of  his  church  at  Westbury. 
Only  one  line  of  Map's  poem  has  been  preserved,  and  that  Is 
found  in  the  reply  made  by  Canon  Bothewald  of  Saint  Fride- 
swide  to  Map.  This  invective  is  printed  in  the  catalogue  of  the 
Ashmolean  MSS  (MS  1281,  fol.  272  b).  Cf.  Latin  Poems  of  Walter 
Mapes,  T.  Wright,  Camden  Society,  1841,  app.  p.  xxxv: 

Lancea  Longini,  grex  albus,  ordo  nephandus. 
Cum  monachis  albis  Longini  lancea  venit: 
Non  quoniam  feriant,  sed  feriantur  ea, 
Lancea  sunt  illis  vilis  cibus,  aspera  vestis, 
Mansio  deserti,  nocte  dieque  labor. 
Cum  contempnantur,  et  plus  aliis  patiantur. 
Pro  Christo,  non  est  ordo  nephandus  eis. 
Ordo  quisque  bonus,  set  non  bonus  ordine  quivis: 
Nee  tamen  ordo  sue  laudis  honor^  caret,  etc. 

The  poem  contains  90  lines. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUEE  83 


§1.     Homilies  and  Homiletic  Teeatises 

The  earliest  vernacular  account  of  Longinus  that  I 
have  found,  occurs  in  ^Ifric's  alliterative  metrical  hom- 
ily, The  Exaltation  of  the  Holy  Cross.  ^Elfric  in  adding 
the  story  of  Longinus  appears  to  have  departed  slightly 
from  the  current  usage  in  such  sermons,  offering  in  this 
respect  the  first  illustration  of  what  later  occurs  fre- 
quently. The  English  writer  often,  on  finding  in  his 
Latin  or  French  source  mention  of  the  lance  or  of  the 
sufferings  of  the  crucifixion,  was  reminded  of  Longinus 
and  so  enlarged  his  original  by  the  addition  of  the  legend. 
For  JElfric's  sermon  I  have  found  no  definite  source,^ 
but  very  similar  sermons  are  common.  St.  Andrew  of 
Crete  in  his  homily  De  Sancta  Cruce^  refers  to  the  pierc- 
ing of  the  side  of  Jesus  on  the  cross.  Joseph,  Archbishop 
of  Thessalonica,*  in  the  same  connection,  mentions  the 
sacred  wood  of  the  cross,  the  nails,  the  lance,  Callisti, 
Patriarch  of  Constantinople^  (later,  of  course,  than 
^Ifric),  includes  in  his  homily  on  the  Exaltation  of  the 
Cross  reference  to  the  conversion  of  the  centurion  at  the 
cross.  ^Ifric,  then,  seems  to  be  following  the  general 
type  of  such  homilies.  He  uses  the  story  of  Longinus  to 
show  the  gi'eat  mercy  of  the  Saviour : 

Swa  milde  is  se  hselend  J^aet  he  miltsian  wolde 

his  agenum  slagum  gif  hi  gecyrran  woldon. 

and  biddan  his  miltsunge  .  swa  swa  heora  msenig  dyde. 

2  The  sources  of  this  sermon  have  not  been  considered  by  the 
various  investigators  of  ^Ifric's  sources,  J.  H.  Ott,  M.  Forster, 
C.  L.  White. 

SGretser,  Opera  (1734),  II,  72. 

4  Ibid.,  85. 

5  Ibid.,  191. 


84  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

swa  swa  se  hundredes  ealdor  .  ]>e  hine  hetelice  stang 

on  his  halgan  sidan  .  and  siSSan  him  beah  to. 

se  hundredes  ealdor  hatte  longinus. 

He  geseah  Sa  sona  hu  seo  sunne  a)7ystrode. 

fram  mid-daege  o5  non  .  and  eall  middan-eard  bifode. 

and  stanas  toburston  .  ]>&  beah  he  to  criste 

sleande  his  breost  .  and  secgende  hlude. 

Uere  .  filius  dei  est  hie  .  Sojjlice  )?aes  is  godes  sunu. 

He  forlet  Sa  his  folgoS  .  and  ferde  to  Tpam  apostolum. 

and  wears  gelaered  to  geleafan  Jjurh  hi. 

and  mid  fulluhte  a^wagen  fram  his  fyrlenum  dsedum. 

He  daelde  l^a  his  eahta  ealle  on  gelmyssan. 

and  on  claennysse  leofode  ,  swa  swa  cristes  tSegen. 

on  mycelre  forhaefednysse  .  and  pa,m.  hsej>enum  bodade 

J>one  so]7an  geleafan  .  and  synne  forgifennysse. 

and  to-wearp  deofolgild  .  and  wundra  gefremode 

on  godes  naman  .  ot5  paet  sum  gramlic  dema 

hine  ge-martyrode  mid  micclum  witum. 

Ac  he  worhte  fela  wundra  setforan  J»am  deman. 

betwux  p&m.  tintregum  .  and  ablende  )?one  deman 

Jjurh  godes  mihte  .  peet  menn  mihton  tocnawon  (sie) 

hu  mildheort  se  haelend  is  .  pe  hine  mersode  swa. 

He  wear})  pa,  .  beheafdod  for  tSaes  haelendes  naman. 

}?one  pe  he  ser  gewundode  waelhreowlice  on  rode. 

and  wuna?5  on  ecnysse  on  wuldre  mid  him. 

Octauius  hatte  se  haej^ena  dema 

pe  hine  acwealde  .  ac  he  com  sit5San 

Jjffir  he  ofslagen  wags  .  and  gesohte  his  lie 

biddende  forgifennysse  mid  wope  and  heofunge. 

pa  geseah  he  sona  gesundfullum  eagum. 

J>urh  t)one  ylcan  onliht  pe  hine  aer  ablende. 

and  se  dema  J^a  deorwurtslice  bebyrigde 

longines  lichaman  .  and  gelyfde  on  crist 

aefre  wuldrigende  god  .  ot5  J»aet  he  gewat  of  life. 

Sy  wuldor  and  lof  fiam  wel-willendan  gode. 

Se  ?5e  aefre  rixatS  on  ecnysse.    AMEN.6 

^Ifric's  storj  of  Longinus  resembles  the  general  type 
found  in  the  first  account  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum.     He 

6  Lives  of  the  Saints,  EET8.,  94,  154  ff.;  cf.  Morris,  Legends  of 
the  Holy  Rood,  EET8.,  46,  107.  Skeat,  EETS.,  94,  p.  xxiv,  dates 
the  Lives  of  the  Saints  about  the  year  994. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATTJKE  SO 

omits  some  details:  he  does  not  mention  Csesarea  as  the 
place  of  the  martyrdom,  he  does  not  include  the  long  con- 
versation mth  the  judge,  the  tortures,  the  recognition  of 
Longinus  by  the  demons — in  fact,  many  of  the  stock  de- 
tails found  usually  in  the  acts  of  saints.  Longinus  in  this 
account  is  the  centurion,  and  there  is  no  reference  to  his 
blindness. 

The  next  mention  of  Longinus — ^this  time  a  slight 
one — occurs  in  a  thirteenth  century  sermon,  ]>e  Wohunge 
of  Ure  Lauerd.  This  homily  is  interesting  in  two  re- 
spects: it  speaks  of  Christ  after  the  fashion  of  the 
mediaeval  mystics,  in  phrases  which  closely  correspond  to 
those  used  in  the  secular  love  lyrics  of  the  time;  and  it 
refers  also  to  the  sacramental  and  mystical  blood  of  re- 
demption and  water  of  baptism,  the  fruit  of  Christ's 
death. 

"Bote  ne  I)inche  ham  nawt  t5et  l^at  he  is  ful  pinet  ne  l?at  rewfule 
deade  bodi  nulen  ha  nawt  fritSie.  Bringen  forS  longis  wi5  }jat 
brade  scharpe  spere.  He  ]?urles  his  side  cleues  tat  herte.  And 
cumes  flowinde  ut  of  J>at  wide  wunde,  >e  blod  Jjat  bohte,  ]>e 
water  }jat  te  world  wesch  of  sake  and  of  sunne."7 

There  is  here  perhaps  a  slight  implication  of  the  blind- 
ness of  Longinus  in  the  suggestion  that  he  was  led  forth. 
Curious  in  its  relation  to  the  pe  Wohunge  of  Ure 
Lauerd,  is  a  treatise  of  the  following  century,  entitled  A 
Talhyng  of  pe  Loue  of  God.  Horstmann  prints  the  lat- 
ter from  the  Vernon  MS,  the  only  MS  in  which  it  is 
known  to  occur.  Horstmann  calls  it  an  imitation  of 
Richard  Rolle,  "the  work  of  a  (probably  young)  monk 
of  the  Fra  Angelico  type,  who,  shut  out  from  the  world 
in  his  monastery,  finds  comfort  in  sweet  meditation  and 

7  Old  English  Homilies  (XII,  XIII  centuries)  ed.  by  Morris. 
EET8.,  29  and  34,  283. 


86  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

song.  It  is  one  of  the  pearls  of  Old  English  literature." 
This  treatise  is  not  only  an  imitation  of  Rolle,  of  whose 
Meditatio  de  Passions  Domini^  there  are  in  the  Talkyng 
definite  reminders  in  phrase  and  incident,  but  it  is  a 
combination  of  two  earlier  homilies.  Attention  has  not 
been  called  to  the  fact,  so  far  as  I  know,  that  the  first 
eight  pages  reproduce  with  enlargement  the  homily 
known  as  On  Ureisun  of  oure  Louerde,  and  that  the  last 
thirteen  reproduce  quite  as  definitely  ]>e  Wohimge  of  Ure 
Lauerd.^ 

The  reference  to  Longinus  in  the  Talkyng  occurs  in 
the  following  passage : 

But  lit  my  derwor])e  leof  whon  ]>ei  hedden  pe  slayn.  al  at 
heor  wille,  ne  J)30Uite  hem  not  J>at  Inoui,  pat  pei  se^e  J?i  dede 
bodi  so  reu)?li  honge  on  Roode;  ne  wolde  J>ei  not  spare  pe  de[d] 
ne  o-lyue,  but  brouhte  torp  Longius  )?at  was  a  blynd  kniht,  and 
token  him  a  scharp  spere  to  stinge  Jjorw  }>in  herte,  so  J^at  hit  clef 

8  Engl.  Stud.  VII,  454  ff.;  also  Rich.  Rolle  of  Hampole,  I,  83  ff. 
Morris,  op.  cit.,  p.  x,  takes  the  Wohunge  to  be  a  paraphrase  of  a 
portion  of  the  Ancren  Riwle  and  perhaps,  in  its  original  form,  by 
the  same  author. 

9  The  sources  and  authorship  of  the  Wohunge  and  the  Ureison 
have  been  investigated  by  Einenkel,  Anglia  V,  265  ff.,  and  by 
Vollhardt  (Einfluss  der  lateinischen  geistlichen  Litteratur  auf 
der  englischen  Ubergangsperiode,  1888).  Einenkel  finds  resem- 
blances to  the  Ancren  Riwle,  Sawles  Warde,  and  Holi  Meidenhod, 
and  attempts  to  show  that  the  Wohunge  and  the  Ureison  were 
written  by  nuns  for  whom  the  Lord  was  in  the  Middle  Ages  the 
type  of  the  perfect  man,  just  as  the  Virgin  was  for  the  monks  the 
type  of  the  perfect  woman.  Vollhardt  dismisses  as  unfounded  the 
question  of  a  woman's  authorship,  and  shows  that  such  mystic, 
fervid  expression  of  adoration  of  Christ  was  common  in  the 
Latin  writers  most  influential  in  mediaeval  Christian  English 
writing.  Vollhardt  (p.  48  ff.)  cites  interesting  parallels  to  the 
Wohunge  and  the  Ureison  found  in  Meditationes  and  Orationes  of 
Anselm,  with  additions  from  the  De  Anima  of  Hugo  of  Saint  Vic- 
tor. The  present  writer  expects  to  consider  this  matter  more 
fully  in  a  separate  study. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUEE  O  ,' 

a-tuo  and  of  J)at  ilke  welle  of  lyf,  J?orw  J)at  grisly  wounde: 
runne  two  floodes:  pi  Riche  precious  blod  J»at  al  pe  world  boujte, 
and  J>at  deore  holy  water  J>at  al  J)is  world  wosch  Of  sake  and  of 
synne.io 

Though  Longinus  is  here  referred  to  as  blind,  nothing 
is  said  of  his  healing  or  conversion.  The  interest  is 
not,  of  course,  in  the  story  of  Longinus.  But  that  his 
name  was  almost  indissolubly  connected  with  the  wound 
in  the  side  of  Christ  is  clearly  indicated.  The  account 
of  the  passion  is  one  of  the  passages  most  enlarged  by 
the  later  writer.  Here  he  definitely  reminds  one  of 
Rolle,  dwelling  as  he  does  on  the  horrible  suffering  of 
Christ  on  the  cross,  and  of  Mary  in  witnessing  her  son's 
agony. 

§2.     The  Gospel  of  !N'icodemtjs 

The  great  popularity  of  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  in 
England  has  been  discussed  by  Wiilker,  who  pointed  out 
its  significance  in  Western  literature,  and  later  by  Pro- 
fessor Hulme  in  the  introduction  to  his  edition  of  the 
poetical  Middle  English  versions.^^  It  was  repeatedly 
translated  in  both  poetry  and  prose.  The  separate 
legends  which  it  includes  were  by  this  means  scattered 
everywhere.  Though  the  texts  now  in  existence  are  not 
of  earlier  date  than  the  fifteenth  century,  Professor 
Hulme  thinks  the  poetical  version  "was  probably  first 
translated  not  far  from  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth 
century."^^     He  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  "in- 

10  Horstmann,  R.  Rolle  II,  361. 

11  R.  P.  Wiilker,  Das  Evangelium  Nichodemi  in  des  abendldndi- 
schen  Literatur,  18  ff.,  66  ff.;  W.  H.  Hulme,  The  M.  E.  Harrowing 
of  Hell,  etc.,  EETS.,  e.  s.  100. 

12  J&id.,  p.  xxi. 


88  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

fluence  of  tlie  Evangelium  Nicodemi  was  felt  in  Eng- 
lish literature  long  before  the  period  of  the  religious 
drama,"  and  says  the  Latin  version  was  known  in  Eng- 
land not  long  after  the  introduction  of  Christianity.^^ 

The  metrical  versions  printed  by  Professor  Hulme  are 
from  the  following  MSS :  B.  M.  Cotton  Galba  E.  IX ; 
B.  M.  Harl.  4196;  B.  M.  Addit.  32,578;  Sion  College 
arc.  L.  40.^*  The  reference  to  Longinus  contained  in 
these  texts  is  slight.  The  Harley  and  the  Cotton  MSS 
do  not  mention  Longinus  by  name,  nor  do  they  give  the 
legend,  though  they  betray  its  influence  in  the  statement 
that  the  spearman  is  blind.     The  Harley  reads: 

1.  625      A  blynd  knyght,  so  thoght  >am  best, 
A  spere  J>ai  gaf  gud  spede; 
To  Ihesu  syde  >ai  gan  it  threst. 
And  blode  and  water  out  yhede. 

Aside  from  the  blindness,  there  is  here  no  addition  to 
the  Latin  original.  The  Sion  MS  adds  also  the  name 
Longinus.  It  is  in  the  Additional  MS,  however,  that  the 
influence  of  the  legend  appears  most  clearly.  In  this, 
one  not  only  finds  Longinus  named,  but  also  mention  of 
the  cure  of  his  blindness: 

To  longeus  an  betoke  a  spere 
A  blynde  knyght  was  in  ))at  rowte; 
To  ihesu  herte  he  gon  it  here, 
And  watre  &  blode  anon  wente  oute 
And  sprent  on  longeus  eghen  Jjere 
And  sone  he  sawe  witnouten  doute 

The  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  was  current  in  English  also 
in  a  number  of  prose  versions.^^     Some  of  these  give  no 

i3  76id.,  p.  Ixvii. 

14  iMd.,  pp.  XV  ff.  for  description  and  relation  of  the  MSS. 

15  IMd.,  pp.  xxxiii  ff.  for  list  and  description  of  prose  MSS. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  89 

fuller  account  of  the  story  of  Longinus  than  is  found  in 
the  metrical  version.  The  Salisbury  Cathedral  MS  39 
(fol.  135),  the  British  Museum  MS  Additional  16165 
(fol.  101),  and  the  Worcester  Cathedral  MS  172  (fol. 
4)^®  all  make  brief  reference  to  Longinus.  They  all  fol- 
low the  Latin  original  closely. 

The  Worcester  Cathedral  MS  reads:  "Longius  the 
knyght  forsoth  takyng  a  spere  opened  his  side  and  ther 
issued  out  bloode  and  water." 

In  the  later  versions  the  story  is  elaborated.  MS  Harl. 
149,  which  is  "comparatively  late,"  according  to  Pro- 
fessor Hulme,  and  shows  "traces  of  modernization," 
gives  a  much  fuller  account: 

(fol.  261)  "Than  the  prynces  comaunded  a  knyght  named 
Longeus  that  he  schuld  perce  hys  syde  vfyth  a  spere  (fol.  262) 
And  he  so  dyd  and  oute  of  the  wownde  came  bloode  and  watyr 
whych  ranne  alonge  by  the  spere  to  hys  honde,  and  wi/t7i  the 
same  honde  he  touched  hys  yghen  and  forthwythal,  hys  syght 
was  restoryd  and  bare  wytnes  of  trowthe.  And  al  thys  was  done 
vppon  the  mownte  of  Golgotha  whych  now  ys  called  Caluarye." 

Somewhat  different  is  the  story  found  in  the  Black 
Letter  edition  of  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  by  Wynken 
de  Worde  (1509)  :" 

"And  than  sayd  the  knightes  in  scorne  yf  ]ju  be  kynge  of  lewes 
delyuer  now  thyselfe  /  and  than  was  commaunded  that  a  knyght 
sholde  be  broughte  forthe  whose  name  was  Longeus/  and  hym 
they  made  to  put  a  spere  to  Ihesus  syde.  This  knyght 
Longeus  was  blynde  and  soo  the  prynces  of  the  lawe  made  hym 
for  to  perce  our  lordes  syde/  and  so  there  came  out  of  it  bothe 
blode  and  water/  and  so  the  blode  came  rennynge  downe  by  the 
spere  shafte  vnto  Longeus  hande  /  and  he  by  auenture  weped  his 
eyen  with  his  hande/  and  anone  he  dyde  se." 

16  Prof.  Hulme  has  most  generously  allowed  me  to  use  his  tran- 
scripts of  these  and  the  following  prose  MSS. 

17  p.  18.  Cf.  Hulme,  op.  cit.,  p.  Ivii,  for  discussion  of  early 
printed  versions.  For  the  use  of  this  transcript  also  I  am  in- 
debted to  the  kindness  of  Professor  Hulme. 


90  TPtE    LEGEiVD    OF    LOXGINUS 

Closely  related  to  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus^*  and  con- 
taining likewise  references  to  Longinus,  is  the  so-called 
Siege  of  Jerusalem  attributed  to  Adam  Davy.^^  The 
poem  is  a  long  one,  written  in  rhyming  couplets.^"  Ber- 
gau^^  considers  four  MSS:  Laud  622,  Douce  78,  Digby 
230,  Additional  10036.  He  comments  on  the  fact  that  it 
is  called  variously  "The  Bataile  of  Jerusalem,"  the  title 
in  Laud  MS;  "The  Vengeance  of  Goddes  Deth,"  found 
at  the  end  of  the  Laud  MS ;  or  "The  Sege  of  Jerusalem," 
the  form  used  at  the  close  of  the  Digby  MS.  The  poem  is 
difficult  to  classify.  Bergau  calls  it  "eine  Art  religiosen 
Epos  .  .  .  geschrieben  zuni  Lob  und  Preise  unseres  Hei- 
landes  Jesu  Christi."^^  He  divides  it  into  four  parts: 
the  Passion  of  Christ,  the  Healing  of  Vespasian,  the  Siege 
of  Jerusalem,  the  Punishment  of  the  Jews.^^ 

The  section  devoted  to  the  Passion — which  is  the  only 
one  of  concern  to  the  present  study — is  based,  as  the  au- 

18  Prof.  Hulme,  op.  cit.,  p.  xxii:  "In  its  complete  form  this  poem 
does  contain  (11.  395-666)  the  principal  features  of  the  Gospel." 

19  The  catalogue  description  of  Douce  MS  78  states  that  the  poem 
was  at  one  time  ascribed  to  Adam  Davy,  and  even  to  Lydgate. 
It  was  written  the  third  quarter  of  the  fifteenth  century  (?)  Dr. 
Henry  Bradley  (Diet.  Nat.  Biog.)  says  of  Davy  that  he  was  "a 
fanatical  rhymer"  who  "has  obtained  unmerited  importance  in 
literary  history  from  the  fact  that  he  was  formerly  supposed  to  be 
the  author  of  all  the  poetry  contained  in  the  Bodl.  MS  Laud  622." 
He  sees  no  reason  why  he  should  not  have  written  the  present 
poem,  "though  there  is  no  real  evidence  on  the  point." 

20  Another  version  written  in  alliterative  verse  I  have  not  been 
able  to  examine. 

21  F.  Bergau,  The  Vengeance  of  Ooddes  Death,  Konigsberg,  1901. 

22  Ibid.,  p.  41. 
2SIbid.,  p.  42. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  91 

thor  expressly  informs  us,  upon  the  Gospels  and  the  Gospel 
of  Nicodemus : — 

V.  7  ff.      Gospelles  I  drawe  to  witnesse 
of  ]>is  matere  more  and  lesse 
And  pe  passioun  of  Nichodeme 
Who  Jiat  takej>  right  good  yeme.24 

Reference  to  the  healing  and  conversion  of  Longinus  is 
introduced  in  the  course  of  a  brief  summary  of  the  won- 
ders attending  the  death  of  Jesus.  I  quote  from  the  text 
of  MS.  Douce  Y8  (fol.  30a)  : 

And  as  sone  as  Criste  was  brojte  of  lyfe 

per  fylle  mony  wondres  also  blyfe 

Some  of  J>am  y  schall  you  telle 

pay  byn  as  trewe  as  is  ]?e  gospelle 

When  Centurio  behilde  and  saide  )7us 

Verely  ]?is  is  godis  ihesus 

And  so  dede  longeus  \>e  blynde  knyjhte 

Aftur  pat  he  had  his  sy^te 

pe  temple  of  pe  iewys  a  to  dede  clefe 

And  men  y  beryd  ded  and  deffe 

Dede  arise  and  walke  aboute 

Fro  towne  to  towne  a  grette  route.25 

24  Cf.  Bergau,  p.  42,  for  sources  of  the  whole  poem. 

25  A  fragment  is  found  in  a  Pepysian  MS  printed  by  R.  Fis- 
cher, (Archiv.  Ill,  285  ff.  and  112,  25  ff.)  under  the  title  Vindicta 
Salvatoris.  It  does  not,  however,  contain  the  Longinus  incident. 
The  whole  poem  has  also  been  edited  by  J.  A.  Herbert,  1905, 
for  the  Roxburghe  Club.  This  edition  I  have  not  seen.  Besides 
these  printed  texts  and  the  MSS  already  referred  to,  there  are 
numerous  MS  versions.  To  those  enumerated  by  Bergau  and 
Kopke  may  be  added:  (1)  B.  M.  Addit.  MS,  36523  (middle  of  XV 
cent.)  Art.  1;  (2)  Ashurnham  Addit.  MS,  130  (XIV-XV  cent.) 
Art.  3,  (Hist.  MSS  C.  Rep.  VII,  106);  (3)  Harl.  4733;  (4)  B.  M. 
Addit.  36983,  Art.  6. 


92  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOXGIXUS 


§3.     The  Cursor  Muistdi 

The  story  of  Longinus  naturally  appears  in  the  Cur- 
sor Mundi/^  described  by  Morris  as  a  storehouse  of  relig- 
ious legends  and  quaint  conceits.  In  the  four  manu- 
scripts printed  by  Morris,  the  story  occurs  in  two  forms. 
The  shorter  form  is  found,  with  little  variation,  in  MSS 
Fairfax,  Gottingen,  and  Trinity.  I  quote  the  passage 
from  the  Trinity  text : 

11. 16834  ff.  Of  him  [Jesus]  brake  l^ei  no  bone 

But  blynde  longeus  w'i)>  a  spere: 
pat  knyjt  was  one 
pe  lewes  made  him  ])ourje  his  side: 
to  put  hit  sone  anone 
Ajein  his  wille  he  hid  dude: 
perfore  he  made  mone 
Blood  &  watir  out  of  his  syde: 
Muchel  Jjo  J>ere  ran 
Of  )?at  blood  ran  to  his  bond: 
his  siite  soone  he  wan. 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  Longinus  is  represented  here  as 
unwilling  to  do  the  deed — an  early  instance  of  this  de- 
tail. 

The  Cotton  MS  of  the  Cursor  contains  an  interesting 
interpolation,  Hupe  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  this 
manuscript,  following  1.  16814,  adds  72  extra  lines,  writ- 
ten in  a  second  hand  and  in  a  different  (Midland)  dia- 
lect." The  Longinus  story  is  a  part  of  this  addition.  It 
runs  as  follows: 

1.  21  (Add.)       Of  cure  lorde  brake  J>ai  no  lym, 
For  he  was  ded  by-fore, 
Bot  calden  a  blynd  knight 
To  wirk  after  t>er  lore, 

J 

26  Ed.  Morris,  EET8. 

27  Cursor  Mundi,  Introd.  p.  63*. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUKE  93 

With  a  spere  in  hand 
And  til  his  hert  hit  sett, 
per-with  he  therled  his  hert, 
Bothe  blode  &  water  oute  lett 
By  J»e  spere  til  his  hand 
Ran  doun  of  his  blode. 
He  wipped  is  egen  Jjer-withe 
And  silt  he  hade  ful  gode. 
"Mercy,"  he  cried,  "oure  lord!" 
And  gart  cristen  him  I-wis 
Sithen  for  his  luf  was  slayn 
And  a  gode  naarter  is. 

Though  the  name  Longinus  is  not  mentioned  here  as 
ill  the  other  MSS,  the  story  is  much  fuller,  containing 
as  it  does,  reference  to  the  subsequent  life  and  martyr- 
dom of  Longinus.  His  cry  for  mercy  is,  moreover,  sug- 
gestive of  the  dramatic  treatment  of  the  story.  ^® 

§4.     The  South  English  Legendary 

In  the  South  English  Legendary  the  legend  of  St. 
Longinus,  though  absent  from  what  Horstmann^®  takes 
to  be  the  oldest  extant  MS,  Laud  108  (about  1285-95), 
is  included  in  many  of  the  later  versions.^"     This  great 

28  Professor  Carleton  Brown,  "The  Cursor  Mundi  and  the  South- 
ern Passion,"  Mod.  Lang.  Notes,  Jan.,  1911,  has  shown,  since 
the  above  was  written,  that  this  Cotton  interpolation  was  bor- 
rowed from  the  "Southern  Passion,"  the  corresponding  passage 
of  which  he  prints  from  Harl.  MS,  2277.  See  for  the  Longinus 
episode,  11.  23  ff. 

29  C.  Horstmann,  South  English  Legendary,  EET8.  87,  p.  xlll. 

30  The  life  of  Longinus  appears  in  the  following  MSS  (cf. 
Horstmann,  South  English  Leg.,  EETS,  p.  xiv  ff.):  Corp.  Chr. 
Coll.  Cambr.  145  (ca.  1320),  no.  21,  fol.  32  (cf.  Zupitza,  Anglia 
I,  397) ;  Egerton  1993  (ca.  1320),  no.  31,  fol.  119;  Vernon  (ca.  1380), 
no.  18,  fol.  14;  Trinity  Coll.  Cambr.  R.  3,  25  (James  no.  605)  ica. 
1400),  no.  25,  fol.  50,  and  no.  63,  fol.  122;  St.  John's  Coll. 
Cambr.  B.  6;  cf.  also  Horstmann,  Altengl.  Legenden,  Paderborn, 


94  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Festial,  like  the  Legenda  Aurea,  of  which  it  is  appar- 
ently independent,  is  a  storehouse  of  legends — a  col- 
lection of  sermons  or  material  for  sermons  for  all  the 
festivals  of  the  year,  Horstmann,  who  recognizes  it  as 
'"one  of  the  most  important  works  of  mediaeval  litera- 
ture," discusses  its  formation:  "The  collection  grew 
slowly  .  .  . ;  it  was  the  work  of  many  decades  of  years, 
of  many  collaborators,  most  likely  the  joint  work  of  a 
whole  abbey,  that  of  Gloucester,  where  the  plan  seems  to 
have  been  fixed  and  brought  into  definite  shape."^^ 

Though  the  story  of  Longinus  does  not  occur  in  the 
Laud  MS  108,  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  it  was  in- 
corporated into  the  Festial  only  a  trifle  later.  In  the 
list  of  contents  of  MS  Harleian  2277  and  MS  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Cambridge,  145,  printed  by  Horstmann, 
St,  Longinus  is  no,  21,  Unfortunately,  in  the  Harleian 
(about  1300),  long  considered  the  oldest  MS  of  the  Fes- 
tial, the  first  24  numbers  are  now  missing. 

The  text  I  give  here  is  from  Laud  MS  Miscell,  463 
(fol,  IG**).  The  catalogue  states  that  it  is  an  English 
Festial  of  the  fourteenth  century. 

Seint  Longius  was  a  blind  knyght,  J?o  Christ  was  done  on  rode 

Pilat  him  made  our  lord  stynge  antZ  o)?er  ]>at  \>er  stode 

To  his  herte  he  smote  ]>e  spere  J)0  he  feld  >e  blod 

per  vfith  he  wipte  is  blind  eyen  and  ]?ei  were  cler  and  god 

pis  knight  >o  he  my^te  see,  he  saw  t>e  er>e  quake 

And  )?e  eclips  of  J)he  sonne  \>e  deuel  he  gan  forsake 

Of  the  apostles  he  let  him  christene  and  sij'e  by  he  rede 

1875,  p.  XXX,  ff.:  Trin.  Coll.  Oxford  57  (end  of  fourteenth  cen- 
tury); Laud  Misc.  463  (beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century),  no. 
22,  fol.  16.  The  life  of  Longinus  appears  also  in  the  following 
MSS,  the  contents  of  which  are  not  given  by  Horstmann:  Add. 
10301  (fourteenth  century),  fol.  68;  Tanner  17  (fifteenth  cen- 
tury), no.  22,  fol.  30;  Pepys  2344. 
31  EET8.,  87,  p.  viii. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUEE  95 

In  >e  lond  of  Capadoce  hard  lyf  he  gan  lede 

A  maner  monk  as  pei  he  were  seuene  and  twenty  jere 

pis  holi  man  sent  longius  in  penaunce  woned  })er 

pe  lu>er  prince  was  J?ere  herde  of  him  speke 

So  he  lette  fette  hym  to  his  c7iristdom  to  breke 

He  bad  him  honoMre  is  fals  godes  hot  he  him  with  seide 

And  seide  he  might  as  wel  be  stille  -with  is  fole  rede 

pe  prince  let  for  wratthe  po  all  Jje  te]>  in  his  heued 

With  strong  yren  draw  out  per  was  not  on  bileued 

SiJ?e  he  hat  kerue  of  is  tonge  Faste  bi  pe  more 

And  jet  he  spak  })orw  godes  grace  as  he  dide  bifore 

Sire  prince  he  seide  i  am  belimed  for  ]7in  false  godes  loue 

let  mi  lord  l^oru  me  with  hem  speke  a.nd  loke  who  shal  beo  aboue 

Seint  longeus  all  her  fals  goddes  with  an  ax  alto  drow 

pe  deueles  flowen  fiikke  out  and  maden  deol  y  now 

pai  went  anon  to  pe  luj>er  men  pat  per  aboute  stode 

Some  bicome  blinde  anon  some  gydye  a,nd  wode 

And  to  drowe  alle  here  limes  with  oper  sorwe  y  now 

pe  prince  was  bothe  blind  and  wod  and  all  his  limes  to  gnow 

Longius  axed  Jjes  foule  wightes  whi  >ei  woned  Jjere 

In  mamutes  and  in  fals  godes  more  Jjan  elles  where 

pei  seide  we  mow  no  wer  men  so  wel  bitraye 

As  per  with  fals  bileue  ne  our  maistre  so  wel  paye 

And  for  god  is  not  J?er  nempd  ne  is  signe  is  not  I^ere 

perfore  god  pes  we  have  J?er  and  reste  with  oute  fere 

Seint  longius  for  ]70Uit  pat  pe  prince  himself  had  so  y  gnawe 

pu  worst  neuer  he  seide  hoi  ar  ))u  me  bringe  of  dawe 

And  panne  i  wol  bidde  for  pe  })at  our  lord  shal  pe  sende 

hele  of  body  and  of  soule  in  his  seruise  to  ende 

pe  prince  let  smyte  of  is  hed  as  had  er  i  seid 

bifore  pe  bodi  fel  adoun  and  forieuenes  bed 

Our  lord  him  sent  is  wit  a^en  and  his  eyen  also 

Seint  Longeus  he  had  mercy  of  J^at  he  hadde  misdo 

He  let  him  baptise  anon  and  bicom  gode  man  with  alle 

pe  godnesse  )>at  he  hadde  J>er  bi  seint  longius  gon  bifall 

Now  god  for  }?y  mercy  J^at  }ju  seint  longius  hast  y  do 

forjeue  us  our  misdede  her  and  bring  us  to  heuen  also.32 

32  The  legend  of  Longinus  is  found  also  in  the  Passion  included 
in  the  South  English  Legendary.  Horstmann  gives  the  contents 
of  the  Passion  in  MS  St.  John's  Coll.  Cambr.  B.  6  (c.  1400) 
and  mentions  Longinus  (Altenglischen  Legenden,  Neue  Folge, 
Heilbronn,   1881,   Lv).     It   is  probably   contained   also   in   other 


96  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Tlie  story  as  given  here  follows  closely  the  Golden 
Legend  type,  though.  I  do  not  mean  to  imply  that  it  is 
taken  from  Voragine.  The  questions  of  the  judge  and 
the  Aphrodisius  episode  are  omitted,  and  the  whole  ac- 
count is  much  more  popular  in  tone.  This  full  form  of 
the  story  never  really  got  into  literary  usage.  The  cruel 
judge  and  the  miracle  of  his  healing  are  heard  of  no 
more. 

Caxton's  translation  of  the  Legenda  Aurea  should  per- 
haps be  noted  in  this  connection.  In  the  legend  of  Lon- 
g-inus,  Caxton  appears  to  follow  the  Latin  text.  This 
particular  legend  is  not  discussed  by  Butler,  but  as  he 
does  not  include  it  in  his  lists  of  those  specifically  drawn 
from  the  English  or  the  French  sources,  I  infer  that  he 
would  derive  it  from  the  Latin  version.  It  is  fuller  than 
the  Latin,  but  contains  no  incidents  that  cannot  be  ac- 
counted for  by  the  Latin  text.^^ 

§5.     The   "iNToRTHEKN   Passion" 

The  Longinus  story  is  of  importance  in  the  "!N'orthem 
Passion,"  which  exists  in  several  manuscripts.^*     Horst- 

MSS  of  the  South  English  Legendary.  In  Horstmann's  lists  of 
the  contents  of  these  MSS  (EET8.,  87,  XIII  ff.)  the  Passion  ap- 
pears in  the  following:  Harl.  2277  (c.  1300) ;  King's  Coll.  Cambr. 
15  (c.  1350);  Vernon  (c.  1380),  no.  33;  Trin.  Coll.  Oxf.  57  (c. 
1380)  without  first  days  of  Passion  Week;  Laud  L  70;  Tanner  17 
(fifteenth  century);  Bodl.  779  (fifteenth  century),  no.  8.  Pro- 
fessor Carleton  Brown  has  published,  since  the  above  was  writ- 
ten, the  part  of  the  "Southern  Passion,"  which  contains  the  Lon- 
ginus episode  from  Harl.  2277  (cf.  note  28).  Miss  M.  M.  Keiller 
is  preparing  an  edition  of  the  "Southern  Passion"  from  sev- 
eral MSS. 

33  Cf.  Pierce  Butler,  Golden  Legend,  p.  75,  for  discussion  of 
sources.     He  does  not  identify  the  English  source. 

34  Horstmann,  Altenglische  Legenden,  Neue  Folge,  Heilbronn, 
1881,  p.  Ixvi,  discusses  the  Northern  Passion  in  Cambr.  Univ.  MS 
Gg.  5  31:     "Dieselbe  Passio  begegnet,  ohne  die  nordliche  Samm- 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATURE  y< 

mann  has  printed  a  portion  of  it  from  Harleian  4196 
(Archiv.  57,  78  ff.).  This  version  in  the  part  which  in- 
troduces the  story  of  Longinus,  differs  somewhat  in  ar- 
rangement from  the  usual  type;  the  centurion  story  does 
not  immediately  precede  the  Longinus  episode  as  it 
usually  does  in  passion  poems  and  in  the  mediaeval  drama. 
I  give  the  text  here  from  Ashmole  MS  61.^^  The 
poem  in  question  begins  at  fol.  87**  with  the  lines: 

"Lystyns  lordynges  I  wyll  you  telle 
of  mekyll  pete  I  may  you  spelle" 

The  Longinus  story  comes  at  fol.  104*: 

Besyde  J?e  rode  per  stod  a  man 
His  ryiht  name  telle  you  I  can 
A  gret  cry  he  gan  make 
When  he  sey  Ipe  wondis  slake 
Centyr  pat  was  hys  name 
For  hys  cry  pe  jeues  gane  schame 
He  seyd  pis  is  godts  sone 
Therfore  >ei  dyd  hym  in  pHsone 
The  oj^er  dey  aboute  none 
When  )?at  day  was  all  done 

lung,  in  MS  Gg.  I,  1,  fol.  122  .  .  .  hier  im  siidlichen  Dialect,  .  .  . 
ferner  in  MS  Ff.  V,  48,  li,  IV,  9;  in  Dd.  I,  1,  ...  In  Harl.  4196 
ist  sie  in  die  Sammlung  selbst  aufgenommen,  zugleich  umgearbei- 
tet  und  am  Ende  durch  einige  Zusatze,  zu  denen  das  northumbr. 
Evang.  Nicod.  oft  wortlich  beniitzt  ist,  vermehrt  (solche  Zu- 
satze sind  die  Abschnitte  Joseph  petiit  corpus  Jhesu,  de  libera- 
tione  Joseph  a  carcere).  Meine  friihere,  auf  diese  Gleichheit 
gesttitzte  Annahme,  dass  die  Passio  vom  Dichter  des  Evang. 
Nicod.  herriihre,  ist  nicht  richtig,  da  die  Passio  weit  alter  ist, 
wohl  aber  ist  wahrscheinlich,  dass  der  Dichter  des  Ev.  Nic.  der 
Umdichter  der  Harl.-Version  der  Passio  ist." 

35  Ashmol.  61  is  described  by  Black  as  "a  collection  of  Metrical 
Romances,  Lays  and  other  Poems  in  Old  English,  made  by  one 
Rate,  in  or  before  the  time  of  Henry  VII"  (Catal.  of  Ashmole 
MSS,  Oxford,  1845,  col.  106). 


98  THE   lege:xd   of   LONGIIv^US 

There  come  a  man  of  ryche  se 

That  dwellyd  in  pat  contre 

Joseph  was  hys  name  ryue 

He  loued  Jhesu  as  hys  lyue 

Forth  anone  he  wente  hys  gate 

To  he  come  to  sire  pylate 

He  seyd  sire  pylat  I  praye  the 

That  body  l?u  gronte  me 

Soffere  me  to  take  hym  done 

Or  }?at  I  hens  gone 

Syre  pylat  seyd  I  grante  pe 

We  wyll  wyte  fyrst  if  he  dede  be 

He  callyd  forth  kny^hts  hende 

With  Joseph  forto  wende 

As  he  seyd  unto  Jhesu 

And  loke  pat  he  be  dede  inow 

jiff  he  be  dede  take  hym  doune  stylle 

And  late  Joseph  haue  hys  wylle 

The  knyihts  per  gane  forth  gone 

To  pe  rode  ]7ei  come  anone 

First  f'ei  come  pe  fieues  to 

BoJ>e  per  theys  wer  broke  in  two 

Seth  pei  stode  in  pat  place 

And  beheld  Jhesu  in  pe  face 

The  sey  well  I>at  Jhesus  was  dede 

To  breke  hys  bonys  it  was  no  nede 

Besyde  pe  rude  stude  a  knyght 

That  longe  hade  foregone  hys  syght 

hongeus  was  t?at  knyihtys  name 

He  was  bothe  blynd  and  lame 

They  made  hym  under  Jhesus  stond 

And  pute  a  spere  in  his  bond 

They  leyd  l^e  spere  to  Jhesus  syde 

Pute  up  Jjei  seyd  what  so  betyde 

Longews  pute  pe  spere  hym  fro 

To  Jhesu  herte  it  gane  go 

The  blode  gane  anone  oute  sprynge 

And  pe  water  anone  oute  wryuge 

Fro  synne  we  wer  with  hys  blod  bouiht 

And  fro  hell  par  we  wer  brought 

'Longeus  stode  welle  styll  fian 

By  hys  fyngerys  pe  blode  ranne 

With  pat  blode  he  wyped  hys  face 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  99 

Than  of  hys  syght  he  hade  grace 
On  hys  kneys  he  gane  doune  falle 
And  of  Jhesu  mersy  calle 
He  sey  I  wyst  not  what  1  dede 
Bot  as  o}?er  hade  me  bede 
Joseph  toke  done  ]>e  body  anone 
And  leyd  it  in  a  feyre  stone.36 

Though  it  is  dangerous  to  cite  parallels  when  only 
short  sections  of  long  poems  have  been  carefully  ex- 
amined, it  may  be  well  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
there  is  a  slight  resemblance  between  the  story  of  Lon- 
ginus  in  the  "E'orthern  Passion"  and  that  found  in  The 
Lamentation  of  our  Lady  and  Saint  Bernard.  This  gen- 
eral resemblance  is  perhaps  a  little  strengthened  by  the 
use  of  a  line  in  the  Vernon  text  common  to  all  the  ver- 
sions of  the  "N'orthern  Passion,"  "Beside  the  rood  there 
stood  a  knyght,"  etc.^^ 

36  The  story  of  Longinus  as  here  given  is  practically  the  same 
in  this  group  of  eight  MSS;  (1)  Ashmole  61,  (2)  Cambr.  Dd.  1.1 
(second  half  of  fourteenth  century),  fol.  18b  (a  part  of  the 
Longinus  story  is  missing  where  the  MS  is  torn);  (3)  Cambr. 
Gg.  1.1  (first  half  of  fourteenth  century),  no.  11,  fol.  133a;  (4) 
Cambr.  Gg.  5.31  (early  fifteenth  century),  no.  3,  fol.  169a;  (5) 
Cambr.  li,  4.9  (handwriting  of  the  fifteenth  century),  fol.  37a; 
(6)  B.  M.  Addit.  31.042,  no.  3;  (7)  Cambr.  Ff.  5.48  (fifteenth 
century)  no.  5,  fol.  39a  (signed  Gilbert  Pilkington,  who  accord- 
ing to  S.  Lee,  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,  fl.  1350,  and  is  the  reputed  author 
of  "The  Tournament  of  Tottenham");  (8)  Rawl.  C.  86  (end  of 
the  fifteenth  century),  fol.  26b.  (at  the  end:  "Iste  liber  constat 
[words  erased]  Wyllimis  Aylysburry  monachus  Sancti  Salvatoris 
de  Bermundsey").  Cf.  G.  L.  Kittredge,  Am.  Journ.  Philol.  X,  2; 
Hammond,  Chaucer  Bibl.  Man.  p.  185.  Miss  F.  A.  Foster  of  Bryn 
Mawr  College  is  engaged  in  editing  the  Northern  Passion  from 
nine  MSS. 

37  Cf.  note  67  for  resemblance  to  the  Lamentation  of  our  Lady. 


100  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


§6,     Other  Poems  on  the  Passion 

The  story  of  Longinus,  cast  in  mucli  the  usual  form, 
appears  in  an  imprinted  fifteenth  century  poem  on  the 
Passion,  found  in  Cambridge  University  MS  Dd.  11,  89, 
fol.  183''.     It  is  "\vritten  in  alternate  rhyming  lines : 

Longinus  broujte  a  spere  ful  kene 
And  set  hit  to  his  swete  sj'de 
poruj  bidding  of  his  enemyes  breme 
He  naade  pere  a  wounde  ful  wyde 

His  swete  herte  pat  was  so  dene 
Wi]?  pat  spere  was  opened  po 
per  ran  out  water  and  blod  ful  schene 
pat  was  raunsom  of  oure  wo 

per  was  mercy  y  seye  ful  son 
pe  knyjt  hadde  y  ben  blyn  ful  longe 
pe  herte  blod  by  J^e  spere  doun  ron 
He  felede  hit  wet  upon  his  honde 

per  wij?  he  wippede  boj^e  his  eyen 
poruj  }jat  blod  he  hadde  J^e  grace 
Anon  J>at  bodj  ful  wel  he  sey^e 
pat  J>ere  was  honged  in  J>at  place 

Mercy  he  gan  crie  ful  sone 
And  in  his  herte  he  sikede  sore 
pe  fader  of  heuene  herde  his  bone 
Hit  was  forjeuen  hym  ry^t  >ore.38 

The  unknown  author  of  the  Scottish  Legends  of  the 
Saints,  though  he  does  not  include  Longinus  in  his  cal- 
endar of  saints,  tells  the  story  of  his  healing  and  mar- 

38  Title,  "How  ich  Cristenman  owe  for  to  hafe  a  remembrance 
of  the  passion  of  our  Lord  Jesu  Criste." 

It  begins:      Of  alle  the  joyes  that  in  this  worlde  may  be 

That  thorw  wyt  to  man  myth  be  ordeyned  and  wroute 
A  swete  lofe  thowt  is  praised  of  me,  etc. 


I.ONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATUKE 


10] 


tyrdom  in  the  account  of  the  life  of  Christ  which  he 
gives  in  his  Prologue: 

1.37        I  hafe  translatit  symply 

sume  part,  as  a  fand  in  story, 
of  Mary  &  hir  sone  Ihesu. 


1.69        &  hou  Jjat  longius,  ]>e  knycht 

l^at  of  his  ene  had  tynt  J^e  sycht, 
&  mad  jet  ]?are  in  cristes  syd 
a  slope,  J^at  ves  bath  lang  &  vyd, 
vith  ane  scharpe  spere  a-pon  J^e  rud, 
hot,  quhen  til  his  hand  ran  J^e  blud, 
&  vith  J^at  hand  [he]  twechit  his  he, 
thru  grace  of  god  he  can  se, 
&  syne  of  god  sic  grace  he  had, 
]?at  for  hyme  he  ves  martyre  mad.39 

The  following  Cornish  Passion  follows  closely  the  gen- 
eral type: 


217. 
In  aga  herwyth  y  ^ese.  vn 

marreg  longts  hynwys 
dal  o  ny  wely  banna-  ef  rebea 

den  a  brys 
gew  a  ve  yn  y  jewle-  gans  an 

ej  ewon  gorris 
ha  pen  lym  rag  y  wane-  ie 

golon  Ihesus  hynwys 

218. 
liOngis  sur  an  barth  dyghow- 

jB  grous  Ihesus  y  jese 
len  marreg  worth  y  hanow-  y  a 

yrhys  may  whane 
yn  corf  Ihesus  caradow-  en 

gew  lym  ef  a  bechye 
pwr  ewn  yn  dan  an  asow-  dre 

an  golon  may  ;;ese 


217. 
Along  with  them  was  a  soldier 

named  Longis: 
Blind  was  he,  he  saw  not  a  drop; 

he  was  a  man  of  worth. 
Into  his  hands  a  spear  was  put 

by  the  Jews, 
And  a  sharp  point  for  him  to 

pierce  to  mild  Jesus'  heart. 

218. 
Longis,  sure,  was  on  the  right 

side  of  Jesus'  cross, 
To  the  soldier  by  his  name  they 

bade  that  he  should  pierce. 
Into  the  body  of  lovable  Jesus, 

the  sharp  spear  he  darted 
Right  under  the  ribs,  so  that  it 

was  through  the  heart. 


39  Legends  of  the  Saints,  {ac.  1400  A.  D.)  Scottish  Text  Society 
I,  3.  Cf.  Horstmann,  Barbour's  Legendensammlung.  Heilbronn 
1881,  I,  3. 


102 


THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


219. 
An  golon  y  leth  stret  bras- 

dour  ha  goys  yn  kemeskis 
ha  ryp  an  gyw  a  resas-  je 

aewle  neb  an  gwyskis 
y  wholhas  y  jewlagas-  gans  y 

eyll  leyff  o  gosys 
dre  ras  an  goys  y  whelas- 

Ihesus  crist  del  o  dy  igti« 


220. 

(fo.  19  a.) 

Eddrek  mttr  an  kemeras-  rag  an 

ober  re  wresse 
ay  ben  dowlyn  y  coias.  arluth 

gevyans  yn  me  ^e 
dall  en  ny  welyn  yn  fas.  ow 

bos  mar  veyll  ow  pewe 
Ihesus  jO  20  a  avas-  pan  welas 

y  edrege 


219. 
From   the   heart   there   came   a 

great   spring,    water    and 

blood   mixed. 
And  ran  down  by  the  spear  to 

the    hands    of    him    that 

struck  him: 
He    bathed    his    eyes    with    his 

one       hand       that       was 

bloodied — 
Through    the    blood's    grace   he 

saw      how      Jesus      was 

dighted. 

220.      ■ 
Great  sorrow  seized  him  for  the 

work  he  had  done. 
On    his    knees    he    fell — "Lord, 

forgiveness!"  he  said, 
"Blind   was   I,   I   saw  not  well, 
that  I  am  living  so  vilely." 
Jesus  forgave  him  when  he  saw 
his  sorrows.4o 


in 


The  persistence  of  tlie  popularity  of  Longinus 
legend  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  his  story  is  included  in 
the  sixteenth  century  poem  by  Walter  Kennedy  on  the 
Passioun  of  Christ.*^  As  pointed  out  by  Holthausen/" 
and  as  stated  by  Kennedy  himself  ("As  Lendulphus  and 
vtheris  can  record"),  Ludolphus  of  Saxonia  is  Kennedy's 
principal  source.  In  the  use  of  the  Legend  of  Longi- 
nus he  follows  Ludolphus.*^ 


io  Pas  con  agan  Arluth,  a  Mid-Cornish  poem,  (Harl.  MS  1782, 
fifteenth  century)  W.  Stokes,  Trans.  Phil.  Soc.  1860,  App.  1, 
stanzas  217  ff. 

41  Printed  by  J.  Schipper,  Denkschriften  d.  k.  Akad.  d.  Wissen- 
schaften,  Wien,  1902,  vol.  48,  25  ff. 

42  Archiv,  112,  298  ff. 

43  Cf.  p.  24. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUKE  103 

(CLIX) 
Bot  fra  Jjai  saw  >at  cristynnit  Kingis  face 
All  wan  and  paill,  eik  closit  wes  his  sycht, 
His  bludy  body  stif  in  euery  place, 
Thai  estemit  J^at  ded  had  done  his  rycht. 
Throw  pe  richt  syd  him  woundit  a  blind  knycht 
With  a  scharp  speir,  quhill  blude  and  watter  cleir 
Agane  natour  his  ded  hert  woundit  [sair] 

(CLX) 
The  precius  blud  ran  vnto  Longeus  hand, 
And  he  his  eyne  anoyntit  with  it  throu  caiss; 
Off  Ipe]  tuiching  of  God  sic  grace  he  fond. 
With  e  and  hert  }jat  he  knew  Cristis  face; 
He  left  his  office,  resignit  in  pat  place, 
Als  levit  lang  in  relyiosite. 
Syne  bischope  maid  and  marter  deit  he. 

§7.     Hours  of  the  Cross 

It  is  to  be  expected  that  the  story  of  Longinus  would 
be  found  in  the  Hours  of  the  Cross.  It  appears  in  the 
Vernon  MS  Patris  Sapiencia,  sive  Horae  de  Cruce**^ 
though  it  is  not  found  in  the  Latin  text  referred  to  by 
Horstmann/^  nor  in  the  corresponding  English  poem  in 
MS  Bodl.  Miscell.  Lit.  104,  fol.  50."'  The  Vernon  version 
reads  as  follows : 

Hora  Nona  dominus  Cristus  expirauit, 
"Heli,"  damans  spiritum  patri  comendauit, 
Latus  eius  lancea  myles  perforauit. 
Terra  tunc  contremuit,  &  sol  obscurauit. 
Adoramus  te,  criste,  &  benedicimus  tibi, 
Quia  per  crucem  tuam  redemisti  mundum. 

44:  Minor  Poems  of  Vernon  MS,  EETS.,  pp.  40,  41. 

45  Daniel,  Thes.  Hymnolog.  I,  337,  the  corresponding  stanza  of 
which  reads: 

"Hora  nona  dominus  Jesus  expiravit, 
Heli  damans  animam  patri  commandavit, 
Latus  eius  lancea  miles  perforavit, 
Terra  tunc  contremuit  et  sol  obscuravit." 

46  Printed  by  Horstmann  at  foot  of  page,  EETS,,  98,  37  ff. 


104  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

At  Non  J>er  >urlede  Ihesus  herte:   Longius,  a  Blynd  kniht; 

He  wupte  his  Eijen  wi)j  his  blod:  porwh  fiat  he  hedde  his  siht. 

J?e  eorfie  quok,  pe  stones  clouen:  pe  sonne  les  his  liht, 

pe  dede  a-risen  of  heore  graues:     In  tokene  of  godus  miht 

pat  us  on  Rode  bouhte, 

pe  soules  pat  weren  in  helle:   Ihesus  sone  out  brouhte. 

An  interesting  relationship  is  to  be  noted  between  the 
Vernon  poem  on  the  the  Hours  of  the  Cross,  and  an  "O 
and  I"  poem  from  a  Cambridge  MS,  Gonville  and  Cains 
College,  no.  175,  of  the  fifteenth  century. 

Hord  nond  divus  Jesus  expiravit 

"At  noon  J>yrlede  hys  syde, 

Longeus,  a  blynde  knyjt 

He  wyped  his  eyen  wi>  J>e  blood, 

per  wi)?  he  hadde  hys  sy^t. 

pe  erjje  quook,  the  stones  schoke, 

pe  sunne  loste  here  lyjt; 

Dede  men  resen  out  off  here  graue, 

pat  was  Goddys  myjt, 

Wi]?  an  O,  and  an  I,  J)at  on  pe  rode  us  boujte, 

For  men  ]?at  were  in  helle  for  synne  Jesus  out  hem  brouit."4T 

The  Caius  poem  retains  only  one  line  of  the  Latin  text, 
and  begins  the  fifth  long  line  (the  poem  is  written  in 
half  lines)  Avith  the  refrain  "With  an  O,  and  an  I."  The 
Vernon  MS  is  of  course  the  earlier,  and  it  may  be  possi- 
ble that  the  writer  of  the  Caius  version  followed  the  Ver- 
non, merely  inserting  the  refrain.  ■  There  are  some  indi- 
cations of  Southern  dialect  in  the  later  poem,  besides  one 
or  two  evident  mistakes,  such  as:  Adam  to  rhyme  with 
man,  where  the  Vernon  has  Sathan;  and  the  substitution 
of  thre  Tcynges  for  hnihtes,  as  the  guards  appointed  by 
Pilate  to  guard  the  tomb  of  Jesus.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  "O  and  I"  poem  agrees  in  metrical  form  with  the 

47  w.  Heuser,  "With  an  0  and  an  I,"  Anglic,  XXVII,  313. 


LONGII^US    IK"    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  105 

regular  characteristics  of  this  type  as  tentatively  formu- 
lated by  Heuser**  in  his  study  of  a  group  of  such  poems : 
the  stanza  consists  of  six  lines  of  six  or  seven  stresses 
rhyming  aaaahh,  the  refrain  "With  an  O  and  I"  forming 
the  first  half  of  the  fifth  line. 

Just  what  the  relationship  between  these  two  poems 
is,  it  is  impossible  to  decide.  It  seems  in  every  way 
more  probable  that  the  Caius  should  derive  from  the 
Vernon  type.  The  Caius  is  more  dramatic  than  the  Ver- 
non, and  more  lyric  because  of  the  addition  of  the  refrain. 
If  this  is  the  true  state  of  the  case,  however,  it  would  sug- 
gest that  the  "O  and  I"  poems  originally  started  from  a 
metrical  form  like  that  of  the  Vernon  Horae,  and  that  the 
type  was  produced  by  the  simple  insertion  of  the  "O  and 
I"  refrain  into  a  stanza  already  established. 

An  interesting  parallel  to  the  Caius  poem  is  found  in 
Ashmole  MS  41,*^  written,  according  to  Black,  toward 
the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century: 

(fol.  134a)     With  an  O  and  an  i  J)an  dyed  our  lord  J^at  stound 
A  blynd  knygth  thorow  hys  syde  smote  with  spere 

and  mad  a  wound 
pat  spere  blode  of  hys  hert  toke.    per  wyth  raun 

water  lak 
Sone  and  mone  vpon  to  luke.     po  waxed  both  blake 
Stones  brosten  J^e  erth  schoke.  and  dede  folke  ganne 

a  wake 
pat  ]>is  is  soth  in  holy  boke.    Seynt  jone  to  borow 

i  take 
With  an  o  and  an  i.    Seynt  jone  i  ta[  ]  to  borw 
Marie  and  Cristes  passione.     vs  help   [  ]k  a  sorow. 
Amen. 

48  J&id.,  310. 

49  Prof.  Carleton  Brown  has  kindly  allowed  me  to  use  his  tran- 
script of  the  Ashmole  "0  and  I." 


106  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


§8.     Saint  Edmund's   "Speculum" 

Horstmann  refers  to  two  metrical  translations  of  Saint 
Edmund's  Speculum,  both  found  in  the  Vernon  MS,^° 
the  first  of  these,  ]>e  Spore  of  Love,  contains  our  story; 
but  in  the  second,  How  to  live  parfytly,  it  is  not  found. 
In  the  Spore  the  story  takes  the  form  of  a  meditation  on 
the  hours ;  indeed,  Horstmann  suggests  that  here  the 
English  text  is  not  following  the  Speculum,  but  the 
Horae  de  Cruce  from  the  Vernon  MS  just  quoted.^^  The 
Spore  reads: 

At  noon:  of  \>e  passion,  and  of  pe  Assencion. 

Be-l^enk  J>e  at  >e  vre  of  noon: 

Whon  Crist  hed  seid  J)at  al  was  don, 

Mildeliche  wij^-outen  bost 

To  his  ffader  he  jeld  his  gost. 

And  to  him  he  made  a  cri 

Hely  lamajabatani, 

pat  is  to  seye  aftur  pe  Book 

"ffader,  whiere  ]50u  me  forsok?" 

As  hos  sei)?,  J>us  here  for  to  spille; 

A,  lord,  for  hit  was  ])i  wille. 

A  blynd  kniht  J^en  atte  laste 

A  Spere  ]?orw  [his]  herte  Jjraste, 

pat  Blod  and  water  ]7en  out  jede. 

perof  we  schulde  take  good  hede: 

pe  blynde  knijt  Jjerof  cauite  his  siht, 

And  ure  Bapteme  J»ere  hedde  mijt.52 

Besides  these  metrical  versions  of  the  Speculum,  Horst- 
mann mentions  three  prose  translations:  that  in  the 
Thornton  MS,  which  he  says  is  the  only  l!^orthern  one 

50  7?.  Rolle,  I,  219. 

51  See  above,  pp.  103,  104. 

52  Minor  Poems  of  Yernon  MS,  EETS.,  pp.  292,  293. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATURE  107 

known;  that  in  the  Vernon,  which  follows  more  closely, 
according  to  Horstmann,  the  Latin  original ;  and  one  in 
a  Cambridge  MS,  Ef  6,  40  (fol.  207),  which  contains 
only  a  partial  translation.^^  As  far  as  the  Longinus  story 
is  concerned,  the  Thornton  version  does  not  depart  from 
the  Latin  text,  which  here  follows  the  Bible.  The  Thorn- 
ton reads :  "And  ]?are  was  a  knyghte  redye  with  a  spere 
and  perchede  pe  syde  of  Ihesu,  and  smate  hym  to  pe  herte ; 
and  als-sone  come  rynnande  downe  pe  precyouse  blode  and 
watire."^*  Horstmann  thinks  it  highly  probable  that 
Richard  Eolle  himself  was  the  translator  of  the  Specu- 
lum. 

§9.    English  Meditations  derived  from  Bonaventura 

The  great  popularity  in  England  of  the  Meditationes 
Vitae  Christi,  long  ascribed  to  Bonaventura,  has  already 
been  noted. ^^  Almost  every  Marian  lament,  whether  in- 
corporated in  some  longer  treatise,  or  independent,  shows 
trace  of  its  influence.  In  the  English  translations  the 
story  of  Longinus  occurs  in  two  forms,  one  slightly 
fuller  than  the  other.  The  metrical  version  by  Robert 
Mannyng  of  Brunne,  found  in  MS  Harl.,  1701,  contains 
the  story  in  the  shorter  form.  Though  here  the  poet  has 
made  some  additions,  they  do  not  affect  the  episode 
itself. 

pan  longeus  >e  kny^ht  dyspysed  here  pleynt, 
pat  ]>o  proude  was,  but  now,  be  mercy,  a  seynt. 
A  spere  he  sette  to  crystys  syde, 
He  launced  and  opun[de]  a  wounde  ful  wyde. 
purgh  hys  herte  he  prened  hym  wit^  mode, 

53  R.  Rolle,  I,  219. 

54iMd.,  237. 

55  See  above,  p.  24. 


108  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOJSTGINUS 

And  anone  ran  downe  watyr  and  blode. 
AA,  wrong!  aa,  wo!  aa,  wykkednes! 
To  martyre  here  for  here  mekenes. 
pe  sone  was  dede  he  felte  no  smerte, 
But  certes  hyt  perced  pe  modrys  hert.se 

There  are  also  numerous  Englisli  prose  versions  of  the 
Meditationes.  Bonaventura's  text  is  closely  followed  in 
the  English  version  by  ISTicholas  Love,  in  whose  Mirrour 
of  the  Blessed  Life  of  Jesus  Christ,^''  the  Longinus  in- 
cident is  exactly  the  same.  Two  anonymous  English 
treatises  also  find  direct  source  in  the  Meditationes;  the 
first  of  these  is  contained  under  the  title,  The  Privity  of 
the  Passion,  in  the  Thornton  MS  f^  the  second,  entitled 
Meditacyon  after  noon  of  the  opening  of  the  syde  of  our 
lord  jhesus,  occurs  in  Pepys  MS,  2125,  fol.  35*.     In  both 

5&EETS.,  60,  27. 

5"  Ed.  L.  F.  Powell,  Oxford.  Cf.  the  Myrrour  of  the  Blessed  Life 
of  Jhesu-Crist.  Hunterian  MS,  77  (p.  85  Cat.  for  full  description), 
which  evidently  corresponds  exactly  to  N.  Love's  translation.  Cf. 
also  Bonaventura's  Life  of  Christ,  in  English,  Trin.  Coll.  Cambr. 
MS,  B.  10,  12  (James,  no.  223),  a  fifteenth  century  MS,  with 
excellent  miniatures.  It  begins,  "When  tyme  was  comen  of 
forgifnes  and  mercies  of  oure  lorde  in  whilke  he  had  or- 
denede  to  safe  mankynde;"  and  ends  (after  the  account  of  the 
appearance  to  Thomas),  "Whilke  ioy  and  comforth  he  grawnt  us 
pi  wt  his  precious  blode  boght  us."  This  appears  to  be  unlike 
other  versions  that  I  have  seen.  No.  23  of  the  miniatures,  is 
described  in  the  cat.:  "The  side  pierced,  The  Virgin  swoons. 
Longinus  points  to  his  eye."  Cf.  also  the  Mirror  of  the  Blessed 
Life  of  Jesus  Christ  translated  by  "N"  and  dedicated  to  Archbp. 
Arundel,  Lambeth  MS,  328,  (fifteenth  century);  and  the  English 
translation  of  Bonaventura's  Vita  Christi  found  in  Camb.  Univ. 
MS,  Hh.  1.11  (art.  1),  "This,"  according  to  the  catalogue  descrip- 
tion, "contains  chaps.  1-5  and  57  to  the  end;"  and  Speculum 
Devotorum,  or  A  Myrour  to  Devot  Peple,  in  Cambr.  Univ.  MS.  Gg. 
1.6  (fifteenth  century),  which  is  apparently  another  English 
translation  of  the  Vita  Christi. 

58  R.  Rolle,  I,  208. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATURE  109 

of  these  meditations  Longinus  is  described  as  wicked,  but 
as  afterwards  converted  and  suffering  martyrdom. 

The  second  and  fuller  form  of  the  story  which  appears 
in  the  Bonaventura  translations,  adds  to  the  original  a 
reference  to  the  blindness  of  the  converted  Longinus. 
Of  this  second  type  there  are  several  somewhat  varying 
texts.  That  found  in  MS  Egerton  2658'^  (fifteenth  cen- 
tury), fol.  9%  reads  as  follows: 

His  modur  sniSSe  lest  pel  wold  haue  ydo  so  by  hym  stillich  and 
wis  a  ful  rewliche  chere  wepynge  and  all  hoose;  she  wrynged  hur 
hondes  and  spak  to  hem  and  sayde  my  dere  bre^ren  I  beseche  yow 
for  J>e  hye  goddys  loue  J>at  le  do  no  more  to  my  dere  sone.  I  am 
his  moder  je  wetej?  wel  dere  brej?/en  >at  I  offended  you  neuere  ne 
neuer  dide  lou  wrong.  And  J)ouj  je  haue  do  my  sone  )5is  dishese 
spare]?  hym  now  and  I  will  forreue  low  alle  pe  offence  and  J?e 
dee]?  of  my  chylde.  So  myche  mercy  and  pite  haue]?  on  me  J?at  je 
breke  not  his  lymes.  Doe  lee  see]?  J?at  he  is  deed  and  an  houre 
it  is  si]?nes  he  dijede  .  .  .  pan  was  per  a  kny^t  J?at  was 
blynd  and  hy^t  longius.  he  was  an  euyl  proude  man.  And  toke 
litel  hede  of  oure  lady  talkynge  and  jit  afterward  he  was  a  holy 
seynt  and  martir  for  Cristes  [loue.  cf.  Stonyhurst  MS.  BXLIII, 
f.56b]  blind  as  he  was  he  pressed  among  l?e  jewes  and  wij?  a 
spare  as  )?ese  cruel  jewys  sette  him  to  to.  he  shoof  hadde  as  ]?ei 
bad  hym.  And  opened  oure  lordes  rijt  side  a  greet  wounde.  And 
a  none  per  gusshed  out  blode  and  watre.  longius  feled  wete 
)?yng  come  rennynge  downe  by  pe  spere  to  his  hond.  he  gnodded 
his  eyjen  per  wiJ?  and  anone  he  hadde  his  siit  and  of  ]?at  miracle 
he  becam  a  good  man  evere  after. 

Another  version  found  in  Trinity  College  Cambridge 
MS  B.  5.42  (James  374),  (fifteenth  century),  fol.  33% 
without  title  in  the  mianuscript,  but  described  by  James  as 
a  Life  of  the  Virgin  and  of  Christ  in  English,  is  clearly 

39  Cf.  H.ulme,  op.  cit.,  p.  xxxvi,  for  description  of  the  MS.  I  am 
indebted  to  Dr.  Hulme  for  the  use  of  his  transcript  of  this  MS, 
and  also  for  that  of  the  Stonyhurst  MS  B.  XLIII,  fol.  56b,  whicli 
is  another  copy  of  the  same  text.  Dr.  Hulme  also  kindly  called 
my  attention  to  Pepys  MS  2498,  reference  to  which  follows. 


110  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

also  following  Bonaventura  as  far  as  this  extract  is  con- 
cerned.    I  have  not  examined  the  whole  manuscript. 

Whan  the  lewis  come  to  Cryst  bycause  they  founde  hym  dede 
they  breke  not  his  thyes.  But  a  knyit  amonges  hem  that  hete 
longius  A  proude  man  and  A  wykid  at  that  tyme  but  aftur  he 
was  conuertid.  he  was  an  holy  martur  not  takynge  hede  to  J>e 
wepyng«s  ne  the  prayours  of  that  holy  Companye.  But  dispytusly 
with  a  scharpe  spere  openyd  the  syde  of  oure  blessid  lord  ihesus 
And  made  a  gret  wounde.  And  clefe  his  hert  out  of  the  whyche 
wounde  ranne  bothe  blode  and  water.  And  as  we  rede  this  knyit 
was  att  moste  blynde  and  hit  happinyd  to  him  to  touche  his  yen 
witTi  the  blode  of  Cryste  and  he  myjt.e  see  aftur  ward  well  ynow. 

This  second  type  is  contained  also  in  the  Pepys  MS, 
2498  (Magdalene  College,  Cambridge)  in  "The  Passion; 
caulid  the  complainte  of  our  Lady,"  The  story  of  Lon- 
ginus  is  found  at  fol.  38*: 

[The  knights  broke  the  bones  of  the  thieves]  and  whan  hy 
comen  to  hym  he  founden  hym  ded  hy  ne  breken  nouith  his 
hypes  ac  hy  duden  a  kniith  >at  hiith  longys  smyte  hym  in  to  >e 
side  un  to  J^e  hert  and  wi]?  ]>e  out  drawing  of  J'e  sper  comen  out 
water  and  blode  and  )>e  dropes  of  blode  runnen  adoun  to  longys 
honde  wij>  whiche  he  wyped  his  eiien  and  als  sone  he  sey  and 
whan  he  sey  Jjat  wonder  he  fel  doun  on  knees  and  repented  hym 
in  his  hert  and  cried  mercy,  pan  wenten  pe  princes  and  all  hom 
and  leften  kniites  for  to  kepe  Ipe  body  and  i  loked  to  my  swete 
son  and  seije  his  heued  Jjat  helde  up  al  pe  werlde  hengeande 
adoun. 

§10.     Marian  Laments 

Hardly  to  be  distinguished  from  these  Bonaventura 
Meditations,  so  far  as  the  Longinus  incident  is  concerned, 
are  the  epics  or  lyrics  known  definitely  as  Marian  La- 
ments. Indeed,  Thien^°  in  his  study  of  the  Middle  Eng- 
lish  "Marienklagen"   does  not   differentiate  them.     For 

60  tj'ber  die  engl.  Marienklagen,  Kiel,  1906. 


LONGIJSTUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUEE  111 

his  purpose  it  was  of  course  suitable  to  consider  not  only 
monologues  or  dialogues  in  which  Mary  is  the  speaker, 
but  to  include  passages  founded  on  the  planctus  wherever 
x;hey  occui — in  treatises  or  poe^ms  on  the  passion,  in  the 
drama  and  elsewhere.  I  shall  take  up  here  only  the 
lament  in  its  more  restricted  form.  The  type  is  of  in- 
terest since  it  represents,  as  Professor  Gerould  remarks,"^ 
"the  movement  which  from  the  twelfth  century  human- 
ized religion  at  the  same  time  that  it  popularized  the 
elements  of  mysticism." 

It  is  easy  to  see  how  the  story  of  Longinus  could  be- 
come attached  to  the  Marian  lament.  In  her  complaints 
Mary  usually  recites  in  detail  the  tortures  of  the  cruci- 
fixion. In  the  well  known  Filius  regis  mortuus  est  (Lam- 
beth MS,  853)  there  occurs  this  stanza,  in  which  there  is 
reference  to  the  spear,  but  not  to  Longinus : 

O  je  creaturis  vnkynde!  ipou  iren,  Jjou  steel,  )>ou  scharp  Jjorn! 
How  durst  56  slee  joure  best  frend, 
pe  holiest  child  t>at  euere  was  born? 

je  haue  him  woundid,  ye  haue  him  pyned; 

Spare  &  nail  his  bodi  haj?  schorn! 

pou  spere!     whi  suffridist  J^ou  J^e  smyth  \>e  grinde 

So  scharpe  ])at  al  his  herte  ]?ou  hast  to-torn? 

I  may  crie  out  on  \>ee  bo>e  euen.  &  morn, 

A  wemless  maydens  sone  Ipou  sleest! 

I  wringe  &  wepe  as  t>ing  for-lorn! 

Filius  regis  mortuus  est.62 

In  some  cases,  however,  the  appearance  of  the  spear  has 
suggested  to  the  writer  the  story  of  Longinus. 

An  interesting  lyric  complaint  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury— preserved,  so  far  as  is  known,  only  in  Balliol  MS, 
354 — contains  mention  of  Longinus.     It  begins : 

61  In  his  review  of  Thien's  study,  Engl.  Stud.  37,  406. 

62  Pol.  Relig.  and  Love  Poems,  EETS.,  15,  209,  210. 


112  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Whan  J^at  my  swete  sone  was  xxxti  winter  old 
than  J>e  traytor  Judas  wexed  very  bold. 

The  last  stanza  reads : 

Thowgh  I  were  sorrowful  no  man  haue  at  yt  wonder, 
for  howge  was  l^e  erth  quake,  horyble  was  ye  thonder, 
I  loked  on  my  swate  son  on  pe  Crosse  >at  I  stode  vnder, 
than  cam  Lungeus,  with  a  spere  &  clift  his  hart  in  sonder. 

Each  stanza  is  followed  by  the  refrain : 

O  my  harte  is  wo,  Mary  she  sayd  so. 
For  to  se  my  dere  son  dye, 
&  sonnes  haue  I  no  mo! 63 

Thien^*  comments  on  the  line,  "Though  I  were  sorrow- 
ful no  man  haue  at  it  wonder,"  as  a  popular  phrase  in 
the  laments.  He  cites  as  sources:  Bernard's  Tract.  (Lat. 
XI)  65  ff. :  tristitia  vexabar  .  .  .  nee  mirum;  Dreves, 
Analecta  Hymnica,  IV,  "87 :  Nee  mirum,  si  sis  anxia. 

The  several  texts  of  The  Lamentation  between  our 
Lady  and  Saint  Beimard  vary  considerably  in  the  space 
given  to  Longinus.  The  story  in  MS  Rawlinson 
(Poet.  175),  and  in  MS  Cambridge,  Dd.  1,  1,  is 
twice  as  long  as  that  found  in  the  Vernon  text,  and 
somewhat  longer  than  that  in  the  Cotton  version.  The 
variation  in  the  case  of  the  Cotton  MS  is  caused  by  a 
different  stanza  arrangement  and  the  omission  of  refer- 
ence to  Longinus  in  the  shifted  stanza.  Horstmann  con- 
sidered the  Cotton  (which  he  dated  about  1350)  as  the 
oldest  MS  of  the  poem.    Frohlich,  on  the  other  hand,  takes 

SB  Songs  and  Carols,  from  Balliol  MS,  354,  R.  Dyboski,  EETS., 
101,  40;  printed  by  Fliigel,  Anglia  26,  262;  also  in  Early  Eng. 
Lyrics,  Chambers  and  Sidgwick,  pp.  142,  143. 

64  Op.  cit.,  20. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  113 

the  Rawlinson  (the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century)  to 
be  the  oldest  MS."' 

The  Rawlinson  text  reads  as  follows: 

1.577.  I  folowd  fast  with  all  my  myght 

With  John  &  with  my  sisters  two. 
Omang  I^am  pare  ]jan  stode  a  knyght, 
BIynd  he  was  &  lame  also, 
And  all  I>ai  said  longius  he  hyght; 
Vnder  ^e  cross  J^ai  gert  him  go — 
And  sertes  ))an  I  saw  a  syght 
pat  was  pe  werst  of  all  my  wo 

585.  pai  gaf  J^e  knyght  a  spere  full  gude, 

And  sett  it  to  my  dere  son  syde, 
pai  bad  him  styng  fast  J?are  he  stode 
For  any  thing  J^at  myght  betyde. 
'*  He  putt  it  vp  with  eger  mode, 

To  my  sun  hert  he  gert  it  glyde: 
And  sone  brast  out  both  water  &  blode 
Of  t)at  wound  pat  was  so  wyde. 

593.  pan  wex  my  hert  heuy  als  lede. 

When  J>at  1  saw  fat  rewfull  syght: 
pe  watetr  clere  &  pe  blode  rede 
pat  ran  out  of  J>e  wound  full  ryght;66 
pan  fell  I  doune  als  I  war  dede, 
Langer  to  stand  had  I  no  myght; 
John  me  comforth  in  J?at  stede. 
So  did  Joseph  J?at  noble  knyght. 

601.  pe  blode  ran  doune  vntill  his  hand. 

And  >are  with  wyped  pe  knight  his  eghe, 
So  gatt  he  syght  als  he  gan  stand 
And  luked  brade  withouten  leghe, 

65  Ms  Rawlinson,  Poet.  175  version  is  printed  by  W.  Frohlich, 
De  lamentacione  sancte  Marie,  1902,  p.  63  ff.  The  Vernon  text  by 
Horstmann,  EETS.,  98,  p.  297  ff.  The  Vernon  and  Cambr.  Dd.  1,  1, 
by  Kribel,  Engl.  Stud.,  VIII,  85  ff.  The  Tiber.  E.  VII,  by  Horst- 
mann, R.  Rolle,  II,  274  ff.  For  full  description  of  MSS  and  their 
relations  of.  Frohlich. 

66  Dd.  I.a96  reads  instead — To  Longius  hand  it  ran  doun  rihte. 


114  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

He  thanked  god  of  all  his  sende — 
Lyftand  his  hert  to  heuen  on  heghe. 
pat  syght  sone  dele  nay  bale  vnbande, 
And  other  mo  Jjat  stode  me  neghe.67 

The  Longinus  episode  apparently  is  an  addition  by  the 
English  author,  since  it  does  not  occur  in  the  sermon  of 
St.  Bernard,  which  is  supposed  to  be  his  source:  "Vide- 
bant  Christi  corpus  sic  male  tractatum  ab  impiis,  sic  lacte- 
ratum  a  pessimis,  jacere  exanime  suo  sanguine  cruenta- 
tum."®^  Who  this  author  was,  however,  is  not  known.  It 
has  been  ascribed  to  Richard  Rolle  of  Hampole,  but  Horst- 
mann,**  Kribel,''"  and  Frohlich^^  all  agree  that  it  cannot 
be  by  Rolle.  Plorstmann  first  suggested  as  the  probable 
author  Richard  Maidenstoon,^^  and  later  William  Nas- 
syngton.'^^  Frohlich^*  dismisses  both  these  suggestions  as 
unfounded. 

67  In  Tiber  E.  VII,  the  stanza  beginning  1.593  follows  that  be- 
ginning 1.601.  Both  these  stanzas  are  omitted  in  the  Vernon 
text.  MS  Laud  Misc.  463,  gives  for  11.,  602-4,  a  very  pretty  varia- 
tion: 

He  wipid  his  eyen  and  wel  he  sey 
ffelde  and  wode  water  and  londe 
ffoul  in  firmamente  on  hey. 

A  slight  resemblance  in  the  Vernon  text  to  the  Northern  Pas- 
sion is  to  be  noted.  L.579  reads:  "Besyde  J^e  Roode  J?er  stod 
a  knijt  Blynd  he  was  and  lome  also."  The  corresponding  line  in 
the  Northern  Passion  (MS  Ashm.  61)  reads:  "Besyde  J^e  rude 
stude  a  knyght,  l^at  longe  hade  forgone  hys  syght."  See  above, 
p.  99. 

68  Printed  by  Kribel,  op.  cit.  p.  109,  from  Antwerp  ed.  1616. 
esEETS.,  98,  297. 

TO  Op.  cit.,  84. 
71  Op.  cit.,  54. 
72EETS.,  98,  297.  j 

73  R.  Rolle,  II,  274. 

74  Op.  cit.,  54. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUKE  115 


§11.     Religious  Lykics 

Tlie  religious  lyrics  in  Middle  English,  as  Chambers"^' 
has  noted,  exceed  in  number  the  love-lyrics.  Several  of 
these  have  already  been  included  in  other  connections,  as 
Marian  laments,  poems  on  the  Hours,  or  meditations  on 
the  Passion.  Their  origins  are  usually  shown  by  the 
remnants  retained  by  them  of  the  older  forms  from  which 
they  derive.  For  instance,  they  are  often  translations 
with  slight  expansion  of  Latin  hymns.  As  in  the  case  of 
the  Vernon  Horae  de  Cruce,  they  keep  the  Latin  poem 
as  heading,  and  add  in  English  a  free  paraphrase,  some- 
times including  details  not  found  in  the  source,  as,  for 
example,  the  Longinus  reference  in  the  Vernon  poem. 
Such  a  poem  as  this  is  still  further  popularized  by  the 
inclusion  of  a  refrain,  as  illustrated  by  the  "O  and  I" 
drawn  from,  the  Horae?^  Again,  a  secular  lyric  serves  as 
the  direct  model  for  the  religious  poet.  He  addresses  the 
Virgin  as  the  "may,"  "Mi  leove  swete  lefdi,"  "Lavedi  so 
fair  and  so  hende."  Jesus  is  the  "lemman;"  as  already 
noted,  in  the  half  lyrical  homilies,  the  Wohung  of  ur'e 
lauerd,  and  the  Talkyng  of  the  Loue  of  God.  All  the 
followers  of  Rolle  show  this  intimacy  of  appeal,  the  de- 
sire of  the  love  of  Christ,  as  a  source  of  earthly  ecstacy 
and  peace.  In  speaking  of  Rolle,  Chambers  says,  "All 
his  verse  is  of  'love-longing,'  filled  with  that  sense  of 
personal  contact  between  the  soul  and  the  divine  object 
which  appears  to  be  at  the  heart  of  the  mystical  appre- 
hension. .  .  .  He  conceives  of  love,  not  as  softness,  but 
as  fire;  to  him,  as  to  the  trouveres,  although  in  another 

"75  Cf.  Chambers  and  Sidgwick,  op.  cit.,  p.  287. 
76  See  above,  p.  105. 


116  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

sense,  it  is  'derne  love.'  "^^  Such  feeling  is  the  source 
of  many  of  the  mediaeval  religious  lyrics.  Sometimes 
these  poems  succeed  admirably  in  keeping  the  charm  of 
the  secular  lyric,  then  again  they  are  travesties,  showing 
merely  a  didactic  attempt  to  ecclesiasticize  the  popular 
song  in  order  to  draw  the  attention  from  worldly  to 
heavenly  thoughts. 

A  highly  secularized,  or  slightly  ecclesiasticized,  lyric 
which  mentions  the  blindness  of  Longinus  without  giv- 
ing the  miracle,  is  this  from  a  fifteenth  century  MS, 
edited  by  Wright.  It  is  prefaced,  "A  song  to  the  tune 
of.  And  I  were  a  mayd,  etc." : 

They  hym  nayled,  and  yl  flayled, 
Alas,  that  innocent  I 

Lunges,  blind  knyght,  with  al  his  myght. 
With  a  spere  hys  hart  rent. 
Hey,  now,  now,  now, 
Watur  and  blod  fro  hys  hart  yode. 
And  yet  that  blyssed  sone 
Prayd  for  thosse  that  ware  hys  fosse, 
To  get  for  them  pardone  i 

Hey,  now,  now,  now.78 

A  curious  and  extreme  example  of  this  moralizing  pro- 
cess applied  to  secular  lyrics,  is  found  in  The  New  Not- 
hrotune  Mayd  upon  the  Passion  of  Cryste.  "The  pro- 
duction," as  Hazlitt  notes,  "consists  of  a  dialogue  be- 
tween Christ  and  the  Virgin  Mary,  in  which  the  latter 
intercedes  with  our  Saviour  for  mankind."  The  tag,  "I 
am  a  banysshed  man,"  which  appears  at  the  close  of  each 
of  the  sections  in  which  Jesus  speaks,  gives  here  an  ab- 
surd effect  of  caricature. 

77  iMd.,  p.  289. 

T8  So7igs  and  Carols,  Pei'cy  Society,  XXIII,  72. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  117 

Longinus  is  mentioned  in  Maria's  speech: 

1.126  Swete  sonne,  syth  ye. 

To  make  hym  fre, 
Wold  dye  of  your  good  mynde; 
Your  herte  souerayne 
Clouen  in  twayne, 
By  longes  the  blynde. 
And  all  was  done. 
That  man  alone 
Shulde  not  be  left  behynde; 

Your  goodnes  euer 

Dothe  styll  perseuer 

Though  he  haue  ben  unkynde; 

What  is  offendyd, 

Shall  be  amended. 

Ye  shall  persayue  anon; 

Ye  shall  be  kynde 

Yeldynge  his  mynde 

And  loue  to  you  alone.79 

Another  example  of  a  religious  lyric  in  the  dress  of 
the  secular — ^though  in  this  case  the  poet  is  more  success- 
ful— is  found  in  the  remarkable  poem  The  Quatrefoil  of 
Love,  printed  by  Gollancz  (from  Brit.  Mus.  MS  Addit. 
31,042).  Here  the  lyric  takes  the  form  of  a  vision  and 
begins  in  the  usual  vision  style.  The  marked  allitera- 
tion is  to  be  noticed: 

In  a  moruenyng  of  Maye  whenne  medowes  salle  spryng: 

Blomes  and  blossomes  of  brighte  coloures: 

Als  I  went  by  a  welle:  on  my  playing: 

Thurghe  a  merry  orcherde  bedand  myne  hourres. 

He  sees  a  "Turtille"  in  a  tree,  which  speaks  and  tells 
him  of  a  "trew-lufe  grysse,"  "with  iiij  lef  es  it  sett  fulle 

79  Early  Popular  Poetry  of  England,  III,  1,  ff.     Hazlitt  says  the 
poem  appears  to  be  a  translation  from  the  French. 


118  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

louely  aboute."     The  four  leaves  represent  the  Father, 
Son,  Holy  Ghost,  and  Mary. 

Reference  to  Longinus  is  found  in  connection  with  the 
second  leaf  (stanza  xviii)  : 

_^itt  spak  J)at  noble  kynge,  was  naylede  on  Jiat  tre; 
Untille  his  modir  dere  was  mournande  ]?at  tyde: 
'Leue  pi  wepynge,  womane,  and  morne  noghte  for  me: 
Take  John  to  pi  sone  I^at  standis  bi  J)i  side: 
Johne,  take  Mary  pi  moder  now  moder  to  pe: 
To  kepe  and  to  comforthe  loure  blysse  for  to  byde! 
pe  hate  blode  of  his  hert  dide  Longeus  to-see: 
pat  rane  by  pe  spere  schafte  fra  his  wondis  wyde 
pat  daye 

It  was  grete  dole  for  to  se: 

When  he  was  taken  of  pe  tre: 

The  seconde  lefe  of  the  three 

Was  closede  in  claye.so 

The  Bannatyne  MS  contains  several  poems,  which 
mention  Longinus,  different  in  type  from  those  already 
examined : 

We  that  are  Bocht  with  Chrystis  Blude 

Betuix  ws  and  thy  fell  one  sede 
Ane  wall  ar  Chrystis  woundes  fyve 
His  body  bathit  in  blud  all  rede, 
The  scurgis  that  his  flesch  did  ryfe 
The  speir  that  Longeus  did  indryfe 
In  latus  eius  per  vigorem, 
Schaip  the  no  moir  with  ws  to  stryve: 
Virgo  peperit  Saluatorem.si 

The  Latin  tags  in  this  and  the  next  poem  indicate  their 
probable  origin. 

80  Furnivall  Miscellany,  p.  121. 

81  Hunterian  Club,  I,  78.    In  this  edition  the  first  lines  are  used 
as  titles. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUEE  119 

My  wofull  Hairt  me  Stoundis. 

Fra  XII  to  iiij  upoun  the  croce  I  hang, 
Plungit  in  panis  and  perplexite; 
Longius  a  lance  into  my  body  thrang; 
I  wes  tane  doun,  and  woundit  richelie, 
My  muderis  splene  pairfit  calamide; 
My  blissit  body,  quhilk  passit  all  riches, 
Within  a  crag  wes  closit  quietle: 
Benedicta  sit  Sancta  Trinitas.82 

0  woundit  Spreit  and  Saule  in  tell  Exile 

Punyss  nocht  thy  peple.  Lord  God,  in  thy  grevance; 
Think  quhy  thy  Sone  Cryst  sufferit  sic  passioun; 
The  croun  of  thorne,  the  croce,  eik  Longins  lance 
For  manis  syn  makis  intercessioun."83 

Compacience  perssis 

My  wofull  hairt  is  boyth  roiosit  and  sad, 
Thy  cross.  Lord  Jesus  Chryst,  quhen  I  behald 
Off  my  redemptioun  I  am  merry  and  glaid, 
Seand  thy  panis  sair  wep  I  wald. 
Cryand  holy,  the  gaistly  sperit  thow  yald; 
To  Longens  hand  the  blud  ran  in  a  rest; 
Thy  pretius  blud  for  our  redemption  thow  said, 
Quhen  thow  inclinit  with  'Consummatum  est.' 
Dirk  wes  the  sone  fra  the  sext  hour  to  nyne, 
Mountains  trymblit.  hillis,  erd  schuk  ard  claif; 
Centurio  said,  Thow  art  Godis  Sone  devyne.s^ 

§12.     Fifteen  Signs  befoee  the  Day  of  Judgment 

Kot  only  in  places  where  it  would  be  expected,  sucli 
as  in  descriptions  of  the  passion,  or  the  sorrow  of  the 
Virgin,  is  the  story  of  Longinus  found.  It  may  be  added 
to  any  poem  that  contains  mention  of  the  spear.     In  this 

82  Ibid.,  84. 
s'siMd.,  88, 
Si  Ibid.,  91. 


120  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

way  it  was  inserted  in  some  versions  of  the  Fifteen  Signs 
before  the  Day  of  Judgment.  Though  there  are  a  num- 
ber of  English  poems'*^  on  tliis  theme,  the  Longinus  in- 
cident appears  in  only  two — those  in  Cotton  MS  Caligula 
A  11/'  and  Trinity  College  Cambridge  MS  B.  11,  24." 
The  reference  to  Longinus  is  more  interesting  in  the 
Cotton  text; 

The  XV.  day  hyeth  bylyve. 

For  ^pQT  ys  no  mon  on  lyfe 

Fro  Adammus  day,  \)e  tyrst  mon, 

To  ]?e  dome  he  shall  come  J^ann; 

And  fro  \>e  deth  he  shall  aryse, 

And  of  \>Q  dome  full  sore  agryse, 

Every  man  yn  XXXti  wyntur  of  olde 

Shall  come  )?e  dome  to  beholde; 

And  every  mon  shall  ol^ur  mete 

At  >e  mownte  of  Olyvete. 

Two  angelles  shall  blawe  wyth  homes. 

For  drede  all  shall  come  at  ones; 

Well  sore  J)ey  may  agryse. 

That  fro  >e  deth  >en  shall  ryse. 

Two  angelles  shall  come  Jesu  beforn 

Wyth  schorge  and  spere  and  crowne  of  ]>orn, 

Wyth  drery  chere  and  sorrowful  mode, 

And  so  hyt  herte  and  hys  blode. 

The  spere  as  blody  and  as  sharpe. 

As  he  was  stongenn  wyth  to  Jje  herte. 

For  nonn  envye  ne  for  no  pryde 

Longeus  stonge  hym  Jjorow  >e  syde. 

But  he  nam  >e  blode  so  rede. 

As  ]>e  prophesye  hym  bede, 

He  strokke  hyt  to  hys  yesy^th, 

Hyt  wax  as  clere  as  candellyght. 

He  sayde:  "Lorde  full  of  pyte, 

85  Cf.  Nolle,  Beitrdge,  VI,  474;  also  H.  E.  Sandison,  Archiv  /. 
das  Stud.  d.  neueren  Sprach.  u.  Lit.  CXXIV,  80,  81;  and  Varnha- 
gen,  Anglia  III,  534  ff. 

86  Printed  by  Varnhagen,  Anglia  III,  549. 

87  Ed.  Furnivall,  Hymns  to  Virgin  and  Christ,  SETS.,  24,  123. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATUEE  121 

Thys  mysdede  }>ou  forjeue  me. 
I  ne  dede  hyt  for  no  wykkedhede. 
But  as  pese  cursede  jewes  me  bede." 
Two  angelles  shall  brynge  pe  rode  bry^t, 
pe  blody  naylus,  so  presyous  of  syght, 
And  say:  "Lorde,  we  beseche  pe, 
Of  all  us  to  have  pyte." 

Then  Jesus  calls  to  mind  his  suffering  on  the  cross ;  Mary 
intercedes ;  the  evil  are  oondemned  to  sorrow,  and  the  good 
are  rewarded.  Jesus  proceeds  at  once  to  speak  of  the 
pain  caused  him  by  the  scourges,  the  spear,  the  nails,  etc. 
Here,  it  will  be  observed,  the  story  of  Longinus  has  been 
dragged  in  at  the  mention  of  the  symbols  of  the  suffering 
of  Jesus.  It  interrupts  the  narrative  and  is  out  of  keep- 
ing with  what  precedes  and  follows,  as  Longinus  is  repre- 
sented as  the  unwilling  instrument.  Noteworthy  are  the 
lines : 

But  he  nam  pe  blode  so  rede 
As  pe  prophesye  hym  bede. 

No  other  version  of  the  story  with  which  I  am  familiar 
refers  to  a  prophecy  in  this  connection.®^ 

§13.     PiEEs  Plowman 

ISTo  mediaeval  writer,  great  or  small,  could  avoid  Lon- 
ginus. The  author  of  Piers  Plowman,  describing  the 
passion  of  Christ  in  the  framework  of  a  vision,  pauses 

88  Varnhagen,  op.  cit.  p.  533,  comments  on  the  close  relationship 
of  the  Cotton  MS  version  to  that  found  in  Digby  86.  He  says,  in- 
deed: "Welchem  derselben  die  prioritat  gebiihrt,  lasse  ich 
dahingestellt  sein."  The  Digby  MS  does  not  contain  the  Lon- 
ginus story.  The  Cotton  MS  is  very  closely  paralleled  by  the 
Trinity  College  Cambridge  MS  B.  11,  24  (James,  263),  also  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  The  latter  omits  the  suggestion  of  prophecy 
and  is  somewhat  briefer. 


122  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

long  enougli  to  tell  the  story  of  Longinus.  Here  the 
Bpearman  is  seen  as  a  gallant  and  knightly  fig-ure,  and 
his  deed  is  spoken  of  in  terms  of  knightly  encounter. 
The  scene  is  made  highly  dramatic,  and,  notwithstanding 
the  secularization,  pathetic. 

1.  78.      Ac  J^ere  cam  forth  a  kny^te  •  with  a  kene  spere  ygrounde, 
Hijte  longeus,  as  pe  lettre  telleth,  and  longe  had  lore  his 

sijte. 
Bifor  pilat  &  other  peple  •  in  pe  place  he  houed; 
Maugre  his  many  tethe  •  he  was  made  J^at  tyme 
To  take  pe  spere  in  his  honde  •  &  iusten  with  ihesus; 
For  alle  J^ei  were  vnhardy  •  )?at  houed  on  hors  or  stode, 
To  touche  hym  or  to  taste  hym  •  or  take  hym  down  of 

Rode. 
85.       But  J?is  blynde  bacheler  Jeanne  .  bar  hym  J>orugh  pe  herte; 
pe  blode  spronge  down  by  pe  spere  •  &  vnspered  pe  knijtes 

eyen. 
panne  fel  pe  knyite  vpon  knees  •  and  cryed  hym  mercy — 
"Ajeyne  my  wille  it  was,  lorde  •  to  wownde  jow  so  sore!" 
He  seighed  &  sayde  •  "sore  it  me  athynketh; 
For  pe  dede  Jjat  I  haue  done  •  I  do  me  in  jowre  grace; 
Haue  on  me  reuth,  rijtful  ihesu!"  •  &  riit  with  J?at  he 

wept. 
Thanne  gan  faith  felly  •  pe  fals  iuwes  dispise. 
Called  hem  caytyues  •  acursed  for  euere, 
For  J>is  foule  vyleynye  •  "veniaunce  to  jow  alle, 
95.       To  do  pe  blynde  bete  hym  ybounde  .  it  was  a  boyes 
conseille. 
Cursed  caytyue!   •  knijthod  was  it  neuere 
To  mysdo  a  ded  body  •  by  day  or  by  ny^te. 
pe  gree  jit  hath  he  geten  •  for  al  his  grete  wounde. 
For  lowre  champioun  chiualer  •  chief  kniyjt  of  jow  alle, 
jelt    hym    recreaunt    rennyng  •  riit    at    ihesus    wllle.89 

Longinus,  it  is  interesting  to  note,  is  here  introduced  as 
the  "champion"  of  the  Jews   (cf.  especially  11.  99-100), 

89  Vision  of  Piers  Plowman,  Ed.  Skeat,  B-text  XVIII,  78-100; 
C-text  XXI,  81-105.     Cf.  Kroner,  p.  32. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUEE  123 

SO  that  tie  stands  forth  as  the  protagonist  of  the  anti- 
Christians.  Acting  in  this  representative  capacity,  he 
becomes  almost  an  allegorical  figure,  and  his  conversion 
in  consequence  something  more  than  a  private  incident.^" 

§14.     Chatjcee 

Chaucer  also  has  made  use  of  the  legend.  In  his  ABC 
poem,  a  free  translation  of  the  prayer  to  the  Virgin  in 
Guillaume  de  Deguilleville's  Le  Pelerinage  de  la  Vie  hu- 
maine,  there  is  found  a  passing  reference  to  Longinus 
though  no  mention  of  him  occurs  in  the  corresponding 
stanza  of  the  French  text: 

Xristus,  thy  sone,  that  in  this  world  alighte, 
Upon  the  cros  to  suffre  his  passioun, 
And  eek,  that  Longius  his  herte  pighte, 
And  made  his  herte  blood  to  renne  adoun; 
And  al  was  this  for  my  salvacioun; 
And  I  to  him  am  fals  and  eek  unkinde; 
And  yit  he  wol  not  my  dampnacioun — 
This  thanke  I  you,  secour  of  al  mankinde.91 

§15.     Lydgate 

Lydgate  more  than  once  shows  his  familiarity  with  the 
legend  of  Longinus.  The  first  passage  in  which  he  tells 
the  story  occurs  in  the  Nightingale — a  poem  which  em- 

90  The  representation  of  Christ  as  a  knight  engaged  in  knightly 
encounter  with  his  enemy  is  not  uncommon  in  the  Middle  Ages. 
Cf.  P.  Meyer,  Introduction  to  Les  Contes  Moralises  de  N.  Bozon. 
Soc.  des  anciens  textes  fr.,  pp.  xli-xlii.  The  allegorical  poem  on 
the  Crucifixion  by  Bozon,  referred  to,  has  been  printed  by  A. 
Jubinal,  Nouveau  Recueil,  II,  309  ff.;  and  by  T.  "Wright,  Pierre 
Langtoft's  Chronicle,  Rolls  Ser.,  II,  App.  II,  426  ff.  In  this  poem 
Christ  encounters  Belial,  who  gives  him  the  five  wounds. 

91  The  Minor  Poems,  Ed.  Skeat,  1894,  p.  270.  The  French  origi- 
nal of  the  poem  is  printed  at  the  bottom  of  the  page. 

9 


124  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

ploys  the  vision  setting,  but  which  in  its  arrangement  fol- 
lows the  Hours  of  the  Cross.  The  mention  of  Longinus 
comes  as  usual  at  the  hour  of  "none" : 

1.379.       Thus  heng  oure  lord  nayled  to  the  tre, 

Fro  the  oure  of  sixt  unto  the  oure  of  none, — 

Ande  also  longe  was  in  prosperite 

Oure  fader  Adam,  tyll  tyme  that  he  had  done 

That  high  forfet  for  which  he  banyshid  sone 

Was  in-to  yerth,  to  lyue  in  langour  there 

Ande  all  his  o[f]  spryng, — till  Longens  with  a  spere 

The  oure  of  none,  as  lewes  hym  desyred,  ^ 

Thirled  and  persed  thorgh  his  hert  &  side. 
He,  seyng  then:  '•Consummatum  est,"'  expired 
And  heed  enclyned,  the  gost  yaf  vp  that  tyde 
Vnto  the  fader.     The  sunne,  compelled  to  hyde 
His  bemys  bright,  no  longer  myght  endure 
To  see  the  deth  of  the  auctor  of  nature. 

Thus  hath  this  brid,  thus  hath  this  nyghtingale, 
Thus  hath  this  blessed  lord  that  all  hath  wroght, 

Upon  a  crosse  our  soules  dere  y-bought."92 

In   Lydgate's   Testament,   under   the   sub-title   Lyh   a 
Lambe  offryd  in  sacrifice,  these  stanzas  occur : 

Behold  the  speere  moost  sharply  grounde  and  whet, 
Myn  herte  woundid  upon  the  rihte  syde. 
Behold  the  reed  speer,  galle  and  eysel  fett. 
Behold  the  scornyngis  which  that  I  did  abyde. 
And  my  five  woundys  that  were  maad  so  wyde 
Which  no  man  lyst  of  routh  to  advertise, 
And  thus  I  was  of  meeknesse  ageyn  pryde, 
To  mannys  offence  offrid  in  sacrifise! 

See  how  that  I  was  jugid  to  the  deth, 
See  Baraban  goon  at  his  liberty, 

92  EET8.,  e.  s.  80,  14.    Cf.  MacCracken,  The  Lydgate  Canon,  p. 
xix,  for  notice  of  MSS. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUK.E  125 

See  with  a  speere  how  Longius  me  sleth, 
Behold  too  licoures  distyllyng  doun  fro  me. 
See  blood  and  watir,  by  merciful  plente, 
Rayle  by  my  sides  which  auhte  I  nouhe  suffise 
To  man  whan  I  upon  the  roode  tre, 
Was  lik  a  lamb  offrid  in  sacrifise.93 

A  reference  to  Longinus  appears  also  in  the  first  section 
of  the  same  poem : 

By  blood  Jhesus  made  our  redempcioun. 

With  watir  of  baptym  fro  felthe  wessh  us  cleene, 

And  from  his  herte  too  licours  there  ran  doun. 

On  Calvary  the  trouthe  was  wel  seene. 

Whan  Longius  with  a  spere  keene 

Percyd  his  hertet  upon  the  roode  [tre] ; 

O  man  unkynde!  thynk  what  this  doth  meene. 

And  on  to  Ihesu  bowe  adoun,  thy  kne.9^ 

Ljdgate  emphasizes  here  the  doctrinal  points  connected 
with  the  sacrifice  of  the  Crucifixion — the  atoning,  expia- 
tory 'blood  of  redemption'  and  the  miraculously  shed 
'water  of  baptism.' 

That  Lydgate  should  introduce  mention  of  Longinus 
also  into  his  Testament  is  not  surprising.  Indeed,  when 
one  considers  how  usual  it  was  to  attach  the  legend  to 
any  reference  to  the  spear,  it  becomes  matter  for  remark 
that  Longinus  is  not  more  often  found  in  "Testament" 
poems.  Thien  includes  this  type  also  among  his  'Marien- 
klagen,'  to  which  it  is  closely  related.  Frequently  the 
lance  is  made  prominent,  as  in  the  Vernon  version  of  the 
Testamentum  Christi,  where  Christ  is  the  parchment; 
the  scourge  is  the  pen;  the  wounds  are  the  letters;  the 
spear  and  nails,  the  seals. 

93  Minor  Poems  of  Dan  John  Lydgate,  Percy  Society,  II,  262. 
dilDid.,  II,  234. 


126  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


1.135       pe  seles  ])at  hit  was  seled  wij? 
pei  were  grauen  vp-on  a  sti]? 
Of  gold  nor  seluer  weore  ]?ei  nouit, 
Of  stel  and  Iren  were  ]?ei  wroujt: 
With  f>e  spere  of  stel  myn  herte  J>ei  stongen.95 


§16.     A  LoLLAED  Ceeed 

Pollard  prints  in  "The  Examination  of  Master  Wm. 
Thorpe,  priest,  of  heresy,  before  Thomas  Arundell,  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  1407,"  A  precise  and  authentic 
Lollard  Creed.  The  Archbishop  charges  William  with 
having  infected  and  poisoned  the  land  with  his  "untrue 
teaching  and  shrewd  will,"  to  which  William  responds: 
"Sir,  since  ye  deem  me  an  heretic  out  of  belief,  will  ye 
give  me  here  audience  to  tell  my  Belief?"  His  creed  con- 
tains interesting  mention  of  Longinus: 

And  notwithstanding  that  Christ  was  wilfully,  painfully,  and 
most  shamefully  put  to  death  as  to  the  world,  there  was  left 
blood  and  water  in  his  heart,  as  he  before  ordained  that  he 
would  shed  out  this  blood  and  this  water  for  man's  salvation. 
And  therefore  he  suffered  the  Jews  to  make  a  blind  knight  to 
thrust  him  into  the  heart  with  a  spear;  and  this  blood  and 
water  that  was  in  his  heart,  Christ  would  shed  out  for  man's 
love."9e 

95EETS.,  117,  647.  Though  I  have  found  Longinus  mentioned 
only  in  this  Testament  of  Lydgate,  his  name  is  included  among 
the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  in  two  versions  of  Testamentuvi 
Christi,  MS  Harl.  6848,  fol.  239,  and  Add.  Char.  5960.  For  these 
references  I  am  indebted  to  the  kindness  of  Miss  M.  C.  Spalding, 
who  expects  to  publish  soon  a  critical  edition  of  the  Middle 
English  versions  of  the  Testamentum  Christi. 

QG  Fifteenth  Century  Prose  and  Verse,  A.  W.  Pollard,  107,  108, 
110. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUEE  127 


§1Y.     Romances  Exclusive  of  the  Gkail 

In  the  Englisk  romances  unconnected  with  the  Grail, 
Longinus  and  his  lance  are  of  no  great  importance.  Gen- 
erally speaking,  only  those  of  French  origin  include  any 
reference  to  the  story.  As  in  the  French  romances — 
though  in  English  the  illustrations  are  comparatively 
few, — Longinus's  name  is  found  in  the  long  prayers  made 
by  the  heroes  before  entering  combat.  Kroner  draws 
most  of  his  examples  of  the  French  use  of  the  legend  from 
such  prayers,  which  occur  abundantly. °^  Sometimes,  as 
in  the  following  lines  in  Robert  the  Devyll,  Longinus  is 
brought  in  quite  incidentally  in  the  course  of  a  reference 
to  the  redeeming  blood  of  Christ : 

And  forthe  he  rode  to  the  church  door 
And  discended  from  his  horse  right  there 
So  he  kneled  downe  in  the  floore 
And  to  oure  lorde  god  he  made  hys  prayer 

97  Since  Kroner's  dissertation  was  published,  E.  Langlois  has 
compiled  a  Table  des  Noms  Propres  Compris  dans  les  Chansons 
de  Geste,  1904.  His  list  of  the  appearances  of  Longinus  includes, 
in  addition  to  those  mentioned  by  Kroner,  the  following:  Rolant 
(W.  Foerster,  Alt.  franz.  Bib.  VI)  200,  352;  Rolant  (Bib.  VIT) 
290,  291;  Berte  (A.  Scheler,  1874)  1431;  Gaidon  {Anc.  poetes  de 
la  France)  42,  43,  66,  131,  170,  255;  Anseis  de  Cartege  {Bib.  de 
litt.  Verreins  CXCIV)  260,  var;  Gui  de  Bourgogne  {Anc.  Poetes) 
29,  30,  42,  52,  58,  106;  Aliscans  {Anc.  Poetes)  214;  Enhances 
Vivien  (A.  Nordfelt)  1895;  Girart  de  Vienne  {Poetes  de  Champ. 
XVI,  16)  103;  Aimeri  de  Narbonne  {Anc.  Textes) ;  Mort  Aimeri 
2001;  Beuve  de  Commanchis  (Scheler)  520;  Parise  la  Duchesse 
(F.  Guissard  et  L.  Larchy)  2;  Renart  de  Montauban  {Bib.  des 
litt.  Vereins  Stutt,  LXVII)  176,  180,  214,  226,  349;  Maugis  (M.  F. 
Castels,  Rev.  des  langues  rom.  XXXVI,  p.  5-259)  6619;  Mort 
Garin  (duMeril)  218;  Chanson  d'Antioch  (P.  Paris)  I,  132,  II,  22, 
88,  iii;  Conq.  de  Jerusalem  (Hippeau)  866,  7031;  Baudoin  de 
Sibourc  I,  316,  II,  154,  171,  304,  321,  322,  365,  374,  447;  Bastard  de 
Buillon,  33,  859,  2499,  3242,  4086,  6150. 


128  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOKGINUS 

Saying,  swete  Jesu  that  bought  me  dere 

Haue  mercy  on  me  for  that  precyous  bloude. 

That  ran  from  your  hearte  with  longis  speare 

Which  stonge  youe  in  the  side  hangynge  on  the  roode.98 

A  second  type  of  prayer,  common  in  the  romances,  is 
found  in  the  long  petition  of  Olyuer  before  his  fight  with 
Fierabras,  in  which  he  recounts  the  life  of  Christ.  This 
is  taken  from  Caxton's  Charles  the  Grete: 

"O  gloryous  god,  cause  and  beginning  of  al  that  is  aboue  and 
vnder  the  fyrmamente,  which  for  your  owne  playser  fourmed 
our  fyrst  fader  Adam  and  for  hys  companye  gauest  vnto  hyra 
Eue,  by  whome  al  humayn  generacyon  is  conceyued  gyuyng  to 
them  lycence  to  ete  al  maner  fruytes  reserued  onely  one,  of 
whyche  Eue  by  the  moeuyng  of  the  serpent,  caused  Adam  to  ete 

.  .  .  .  And  whan  ye  were  in  age  by  you  determyned  ye 
went  in  the  world  prechyng  to  your  frendes.  Thenne  after- 
ward by  thenuyous  lewes  ye  were  hanged  on  the  crosse,  in 
whiche  so  hangyng  longyus  the  knyght  by  the  Induction  of  the 
lewes  percyd  your  syde;  and  whan  he  byleued  in  you  and  wesshe 
hys  eyen  with  your  precious  blode  he  recouered  his  syit  fayre 
and  clere  and  cryed  you  mercy  whereby  he  was  saued.  .  .  . 
Thus  my  god,  my  maker,  as  thys  is  trouthe  and  I  byleue  it 
verayly  and  fermly,  be  ye  in  my  comforte  ageynst  thys  myscre- 
aunte  that  I  may  vaynquysshe  hym  in  suche  wyse  that  he  may 
be  saued."99 

Similar  in  type  to  the  preceding  is  another  prayer  in 
the  same  romance,  offered  in  this  case  by  Charles  for  the 
success  of  Oliver.  The  mention  of  Longinus  is  as  follows : 
"And  after  Longyus  smote  you  in  the  ryght  syde  to  the 
hert,  which  was  blynde  and  after  that  he  had  leyed  on  hys 
eyen  of  your  precuous  blood  he  sawe  moche  clerely."^"*' 

In  another  type  of  prayer,  common  in  the  old  French 
romances,  Longinus  is  mentioned,  along  with  the  Magda- 

9s  Roberte  the  Devyll,  London,  1798,  p.  28.  Reprinted  by  Haz- 
litt.  Remains  of  Early  Pop.  Poetry,  I,  244. 

99  The  Lyf  of  the  Noble  and  Crysten  Prynce  Charles  the  Orete, 
EETS.,  e.  s.  37,  65,  66. 

100  Ibid.,  71. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATURE  129 

lene,  Judas,  and  others,  as  an  example  of  a  great  sinner 
who  repented  and  was  forgiven.  Of  this  kind  is  the  fol- 
lowing from  Garin  de  Loherain,  though  in  this  case  Lon- 
ginus  figures  alone:  "Sire,  dit-il  je  vous  ai  souvent  of- 
fense, et  j'en  grand  regret.  Mais  vous  avez  pardonne  a. 
Longis  le  coup  de  lance  qui  vous  donna  la  mort ;  preservez- 
moi  aujourdhui  I"^"^  So  far  as  I  am  aware,  this  type  of 
prayer  is  not  illustrated  in  the  English  romances. 

Besides  this  use  of  Longinus  in  prayers,  the  romances 
sometimes  mention  him  in  connection  with  the  relics  of 
the  crucifixion,  which,  in  the  crusading  romances,  play  an 
important  part.  In  Sir  Ferumbras,^^^  the  winning  from 
the  Saracens  of  the  relics  of  the  crucifixion  is  one  of  the 
motives  of  the  romance.  Floripas  gives  the  'relyques 
preciouse  and  fyn'  to  the  French  knights : 

1.2122         'Be-holde]?,    lordes,'    sayde    sche    J>an.'     and    but>    now 

murie  and  glad; 
pis  ys  t>at  tresour  whar-for  ^e  ban!   trauayl  and  tene 

i-had; 
Which  J>at  my  fader  let  here  awayi  of  Rome  as  ^e 

knowe.' 

Again  the  relics  are  brought  out  in  time  of  trouble  and 
the  knights  kneel  to  them  and  pray  for  help: 

1.5049  Wan  Jie  barouns  had  y-sejen  hem  alle,  On  hure  knes 
]?ay  duden  falle,  and  cryde  god  mercy. 

pat  burde  bryit  >anne  tok  hem  out,  and  knelyng  J)ay 
kussede  alle  about  J^e  relyques  with  gret  honour; 

And  prayede  god  ])orw  vertue  of  hem  Scholde  sauye 
hem  ther  fro  hej7[en]  men. 

The  Saracens  scale  the  walls,  but  when  the  relics  are 
'schewede  hem  on  hur  face,'  they  fall  back  and  from  such 
a  great  height  'that  hure  bodies  al  to-burste.' 

101  Ed.  P.  Paris,  1862,  339.    Cf.  for  other  French  examples.  Kro- 
ner, op.  cit.,  34  ff. 

102  EET8.,  e.  s.,  34. 


130  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

In  Sir  Ferumbras  the  lance  is  not  mentioned  among 
the  relics,  as  at  the  time  celebrated  in  the  romance,  the 
lance  had  already  been  removed  from  Jerusalem. ^"^  In 
Roland  and  Yernagu,  a  related  romance,  it  is  included. 
Constantino  showed  Charlemagne  the  relics,  the  odor  of 
which  cured  three  hundred  sick  people.  There  were  the 
holy  crown,  the  arm  of  St.  Simeon,  a  piece  of  the  cross, 
our  Lady's  smock,  the  rod  of  Aaron,  and  one  of  the  nails. 

And  a  spere  long  and  smert, 
pat  longys  put  to  godes  hert. 
He  gaf  charls  \>q  king; 

Charles  then  prayed  for  a  proof  of  the  genuineness  of  the 
relics,  and  the  place  was  filled  with  a  heavenly  light. ^°* 

A  third  point  of  contact  between  the  legend  of  Lon- 
ginus  and  the  romances  lies  in  the  invention  of  the 
sacred  lance  at  Antioch  by  the  crusaders.  Here  again 
English  literature  illustrates  less  well  than  French.  In 
the  French  romances  the  episode  is  treated  with  more 
spirit.  The  invention,  however,  is  found  in  English  in 
Godefroy  of  Boloyne.  After  speaking  of  the  knights 
dying  of  hunger,  the  writer  adds: 

It  were  a  long  thyng  for  to  recounte  all  their  meseases;  but 
our  lord  that  in  alle  his  werkes  may  not  forgete  mercy  sente  to 
them  grete  comfort,  ffor  a  clerk  born  in  prouynce  named  peter, 
cam  on  a  day  to  the  bysshop  of  puy  and  to  therle  of  tholouse, 
and  sayd  to  them  in  moche  grete  drede,  that  the  holy  apostel 
seynt  andrew  had  appiered  to  hym  thryes  in  the  nyght  slepyug, 
and  warned  hym  that  he  shold  goo  to  the  barons  and  saye  to 
them  that  the  speer  with  which  our  lord  was  percid  in  the  syde 
on  the  crosse  was  hyd  in  the  chirch  of  saint  peter  in  the  cyte, 
the  place  where  it  was  he  had  certainly  shewd  to  hym.  he  said 
wel  that  he  was  not  come  for  to  saye  ne  signefye  them,  but  that 

103  Cf.  above,  chapter  on  the  history  of  the  lance,  p.  58. 

104  Roland  and  Yernagu,  EETS.,  e.  s.  39,  p.  40. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUKE  131 

seynt  andreu  had  menaced  hym  at  the  last  tyme  yf  he  dede  not 

his  message  he  shold  meshappen  in  his  body Thenne 

began  to  delue  and  dygg  depe  in  the  place  that  the  clerke  had 
shewed  to  them.  They  fonde  the  spere  lyke  as  he  had  sayd  to 
them.  Thenne  had  they  a  loye  emonge  them  so  grete,  lyke  as 
euery  man  had  had  as  moche  as  he  myght.ios 


§18.     The  Deama 

In  the  English  mediaeval  religious  drama  the  legend  of 
Longinus  shows  less  interesting  development  than  in  con- 
temporary drama  in  Germany  and  in  France.  On  the 
continent  the  religious  drama  took  its  rise  earlier  and 
attained  in  general  greater  development,  the  cycles  reach- 
ing great  dimensions.  It  is  not  strange,  therefore,  that 
such  an  apocryphal  incident  as  the  curing  of  the  blind  Lon- 
ginus should  receive  more  attention  in  the  French  and 
German  crucifixion  plays,  than  in  the  English.  Though 
the  story  occurs  in  the  four  great  cycles,  Chester,  York, 
Towneley,  and  Hegge,  and  also  in  the  Cornish  Passion 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  there  is  only  the  slightest  char- 
acterization of  Longinus  himself  and  no  enlargement  of 
the  episode.  Throughout,  Longinus  is  dealt  with  quite 
seriously.  The  accounts  for  the  most  part  are  not  given 
much  more  dramatic  heightening  and  color  than  is  found 
in  the  corresponding  narrative  treatments  of  the  sub- 
ject, such  as  those  which  appear  in  the  Cursor  Mundi  and 
in  the  Northern  Passion. 

The  text  devoted  to  Longinus  in  the  English  plays  is 
never  very  long.  The  Chester  Crucifixion  (Play  XVII), 
is  one  of  the  more  extensive  of  the  plays.  The  centurion 
expresses  belief  in  Jesus.     Cayphas  answers  him: 

105  EETS.,  e.  s.  64,  pp.  200,  201. 


132  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

But  when  thou  seiste  his  harte  bleede, 
Lett  us  see  what  thou  can  saye. 
Longes,  take  the  speare  in  hande, 
And  put  from  thee,  thou  ney  wounde 


LONGEUS : 


O  Lorde,  I  see  ney  sea  nor  lande 
This  seven  yeaire  in  good  faye. 


QTJABTUS  JUDEUS: 


Have  this  speare,  and  take  good  heede 
Thou  muste  doe  as  the  bushoppe  thee  bede, 
A  thinge  that  is  of  full  greate  nede, 
To  warne  I  houlde  you  woode. 

LONQYUS : 

I  will  doe  as  ye  byde  me, 
But  on  your  perrill  it  shalbe. 
What  I  doe  I  maye  not  se, 
Wheither  it  be  evill  or  good. 

Tunc  Longius  lancea  perjorat  latus  Christi,  dicens 
Highe  kinge  of  heaven,  I  thee  praye. 
What  I  have  done  well  wotte  I  nere, 
But  on  my  handes  and  on  my  speare 
Out  watter  ronneth  through; 
And  on  my  eyes  some  can  fall, 
That  I  maye  see  bouth  on  and  all, 

0  Lorde!  wherever  be  this  wall, 
That  this  watter  come  froo? 
Alas!  Alas!  And  wayleawaie! 
What  deed  have  1  done  to  dale? 
A  man  I  see,  south  to  saye, 

1  have  slayne  in  the  streete. 

But  this  I  hope  be  Christe  vereye, 
That  sicke  and  blynde  base  healed  aye. 
Of  mercye,  Lorde,  I  thee  praie. 
For  I  wiste  not  what  I  did. 
Jesus,  moche  have  I  harde  of  thee, 
That  sicke  and  blynde  through  thy  pittie 
Hase  healed  before  in  this  cittie, 
As  thou  basse  me  to  dale; 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITERATURE  133 

Thee  will  I  serve  and  with  thee  be, 
For  well  I  leeve,  in  dales  three. 
Thou  will  rise  in  thye  postie. 
From  enemyes,  Lorde,  I  thee  praie."i06 

Resemblances  to  the  vernacular  literature,  such  as  have 
been  pointed  out,  especially  in  the  York  Plays,  by  Miss 
Smith^"^  and  Craigie,^"^  are  here  to  be  noted.  Neither  of 
these  writers  supplies  a  parallel  for  this  particular  passage 
in  the  plays.  On  the  other  hand,  compare  the  directions 
given  Longinus  in  the  above  passage  with  these  lines  from 
the  Northern  Passion : 

They  made  hym  under  Jesus  stond 
And  pute  a  spere  in  his  hond 
They  leyd  ]>e  spere  to  Jhesus  side 
Pute  up  pei  seyd  what  so  betyde 
Longeus  pute  'pe  spere  hym  fro 
To  Jhesu  herte  it  gane  go. 

And  again  the  italicized  lines  above  with  these  from  the 
Passion: 

On  hys  kneys  he  gane  doune  falle 
And  of  Jhesu  mercy  calle 
He  sey  "I  wyst  not  what  I  dede 
Bot  as  o]>er  hade  me  bede."i09 

The  italicized  lines  in  the  Chester  play  also  show  similari- 
ties to  the  text  of  the  Cursor  Mundi.  ITote  particularly 
the  readings  of  the  Trinity  MS — 

1. 16839.       Ajein  his  wille  he  hit  dude 
therefore  he  made  mone. — 

106  Chester  Plays,  Thomas  Wright,  1843,  II,  66. 

107  York  Flaps.     Introd.  pp.  xliv,  xlv. 

108  Furnivall  Misc.,  52  ff. 

109  For  the  whole  passage,  see  above,  p.  99. 


134  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

and  the  Cotton  interpolation: 

1.  33.      Mercy,  lie  cried  oure  lorde, 
And  gart  cristen  him  I-wis. 

It  looks  as  if  the  story  had  assumed  stereotyped  form  and 
was  used  in  much  the  same  way  by  narrative  and  dra- 
matic writers. 

In  the  York  play,  Mortificacio  Cristi  (Play  XXXVI), 
the  episode  is  more  briefly  dealt  with  than  in  the  Chester. 
Here  Pilate  gives  the  direction  to  Longinus.  The  soldier 
himself  is  less  rude,  indeed  he  expresses  his  gratitude, 
amazement,  and  love  with  lyric  ardor.  The  centurion  is 
not  included,  nor  is  there  any  statement  as  to  whether 
Longinus  knew  what  he  was  doing. 

Pilate:     Ser  Longeus,  steppe  forthe  in  \>is  steede 
pis  spere,  too,  have  hold  in  thy  hande 
To  Jesu  J)ou  rake  fourthe  I  rede. 
And  sted  nouit  but  stiffely  )>ou  stande 

Astounde 
In  Jesu  side 
Schoffe  it  J?is  tide. 
No  lenger  bide. 
But  grathely  J)OU  go  to  \>e  grounds. 

(Longeus  pierces  Jesus'  side) 

Longeus:  O!  maker  vnmade,  full  of  myght, 
O!  Jesu  so  jentile  and  jente, 
pat  sodenly  has  lente  me  my  sight, 
Lorde!  louyng  to  >e  be  it  lente. 
On  rode  arte  ]?ou  ragged  and  rente, 
Mankynde  for  to  mende  of  his  mys, 
Fall  spitously  spilte  is  and  spente,  * 

The  bloode  lorde  to  bringe  vs  to  blis 

full  free 
A!   Mercy  my  socoure, 
Mercy  my  treasure 
Mercy  my  sauioure, 
pi  mercy  be  markid  in  me.no 

110  York  Plays   (fifteenth  century)   L.  T.  Smith,  1885,  p.  368. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUEE  135 

The  Townelej  Crucifixion  (Play  XXIII)  treats  the 
episode  very  briefly — ^two  executioners  appear,  and  one 
of  these  is  willing  to  pierce  Jesus  in  order  to  see  if 
he  be  dead.  The  other  opposes  Mm  and  calls  on  Lon- 
ginus.  Though  Longinus  asks  not  to  be  made  to  do 
anything  ignorantly,  he  offers  no  real  objection.  When 
his  sight  is  restored,  he  says  he  sinned  innocently  at  the 
command  of  others. 

primus  tortor 

let  one  pryk  hym  with  a  spere 

And  if  that  it  do  hym  no  dere 

Then  is  his  lyfe  nere  past. 
ijus  tortor. 

This  blynde  knyght  may  best  do  that. 
longeus. 

Gar  me  not  do  hot  I  wote  what. 
iijus  tortor 

Not  hot  put  up  fast, 
longeus. 

A,  lord,  what  may  this  be? 

Ere  was  I  blynde,  now  may  I  see; 

Godys  son,  here  me,  ihesu! 

ffor  this  trespas  on  me  thou  rew. 

ffor,  lord,  othere  men  me  gart, 

that  I  the  stroke  vnto  the  hart: 

I  se  thou  hyngys  here  on  hy. 

And  dyse  to  fulfyll  the  prophecy.m 

Hohlfeld  has  called  attention  to  parallel  passages  in 
this  play  and  York  XXXVI/^^  but  these  do  not  include 
the  Longinus  episode.  So  far  as  the  treatment  of  this 
incident  is  concerned,  there  is  no  significant  resemblance. 
That  the  metrical  form  in  the  Towneley  Plays  shows 
great  variation   has  been   noted   by   Pollard,   Davidson, 

m  The   Towneley  Plays,    (fifteenth   century),   A.   W.   Pollard, 
EET8.,  e.  s.  LXXI,  276. 
112  Op.  cit.,  pp.  298,  299. 


136  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Hohlfeld,  Cadj  and  others.  In  this  particular  play  the 
variations  apparently  mark  change  in  mood,  and  effort 
is  made  to  suit  the  metrical  form  to  the  speaker.  The 
lament  of  Mary,  for  instance,  is  written  in  long  lines, 
usually  of  seven  stresses  and  rhyming  in  couplets.  The 
torturers  use  a  different  stanza,  four  stresses  rhyming 
adbcch.  Longinus's  speech  is  also  different,  the  lines  con- 
taining three  or  four  stresses  and  rhyming  in  couplets. 

The  treatment  of  the  Longinus  story  in  the  Hegge  Burial 
of  Christ  (Play  XXXIV)  is  more  dramatic  than  in  the 
cycles  already  considered.  Longinus  is  again  the  innocent 
tool  in  the  hands  of  the  Jews.  The  centurion,  though 
brought  into  no  connection  with  the  soldier,  has  here  a 
great  deal  to  say,  all  to  the  effect  that  the  wonderful 
tokens  indicate  that  Jesus  is  the  true  son  of  God.  Two 
knights  go  with  Joseph  of  Arimathea  to  Pilate.  One 
thinks  Jesus  dead;  the  other  wishes  to  be  sure: 

jonder  is  a  blynd  knyth  I  xal  go  to. 
And  sone  awhyle  here  xal  be  wrowth. 

Here  the  knyth  goth  to  blynde  Longeys,  and  seyth, 

Heyl,  sere  Longeys,  thou  gentyl  knyth: 
The  I  prey  now  ryth  hertyly; 
That  thou  wylt  wend  with  me  ful  wyth, 
It  xal  be  for  thi  prow  veryly. 


Longeus. 


Sere,  at  jOur  comawndement  with  jou  wyl  I  wende 

In  what  place  je  wyl  me  have; 

For  I  trost  ^e  be  my  frend; 

Lede  me  forth,  Sere,  oure  sabath  jou  save! 


Primus  Miles. 


Lo!  sere  Longys,  here  is  a  spereT 
Bothe  long,  and  broad,  and  sharp  anow; 
Heve  it  up  fast  that  it  wore  there, 
ffor  here  is  game: — show,  man,  show. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATURE 


137 


Here  Longys  showyth  the  spere  warly,  and  the  Hood  comyth 
rennyng  to  his  hand,  and  he  avantoresly  xal  xcype  his  eyen. 
Longeus,        O  good  Lord!  how  may  this  be, 

That  I  may  se  so  bryth  now? 
This  thretty  wyntyr  I  myth  not  se 

And  now  I  may  se  I  wote  nevyr  how! 

But  ho  is  this  that  hangyth  here  now? 

I  trowe  it  be  the  mayndonys  sone; 

And  that  he  is  now  I  knowe  wcl  how, 

The  Jewys  to  hym  this  velany  han  don- 

Here  he  ffallyth  downe  on  his  knes. 

Now,  good  Lord,  fforgyf  me  that. 
That  I  to  the  now  don  have; 

For  I  dede  I  wyst  not  what, — 
The  Jewys  of  myn  ignoranse  dede  me  rave. 
Mercy!  Mercy!  Mercy!  I  crye.ns 

The  resemblance  already  noted  in  the  case  of  the  Ches- 
ter plays  to  the  Cursor  and  the  Northern  Passion  are 
perhaps  even  more  evident  here/^* 

The  Cornish  Passion,  though  briefer,  is  not  unlike  the 
Hegge  Passion  in  the  treatment  of  the  character  of  Lon- 
ginus.     As  in  the  Hegge  play,  he  goes  willingly  when 
bidden  by  the  knights,  who  address  him  courteously. 
Ills  Tortor 


longys  reys  yv  thy's  gyne 
vn  pols  byan  lafurye 

dre  worhemmyn  a'n  instis 
(et  ducit  longeum  ad  cruces  et 
dat  lanceam  in  manum  ejus) 

Longeus 
me  a  geneugh  yn  lowen 
mar  callen  guthyl  hehen 
a  socor  nag  a  seruys 

IVs  Tortor 
nebes  seruys  ty  a  wra 
tan  syns  y'th  dorn  an  giu-na 
ha  herthy'e  gans  nerth  yn  ban 


Longius,  need  is  to  thee  with  us 
A  little  while  to  labour. 
By  order  of  the  Magistrate. 


I  go  with  you  gladly. 
If  I  can  make  any  effort 
Of  help  or  of  service. 

A  little  service  thou  shalt  do 
Take,    hold    in    thy    hand    that 

spear 
And   thrust   it   with   force   up- 
wards. 


ii^Ludus  Coventriae,  J.  O.  Halliwell,  1841  (MS  Cott.  Vespas.  D. 
VIII,  1468)  Play  XXXIV,  334,  335. 
114  See  above,  pp.  133,  134. 


138 


THE    LEGEND    OF    LO:^GINUS 


Longeus 
me  a'n  berth  guel  ha  gyllyf 
na  vlamyough  vy  kyn  fyllyf 
rak  dal  of  ny  welaf  man 

[hie  perforat  cor  Ihu] 


I  will  thrust  it  the  best  I  can 
Do  not  blame  me,  though  I  fail 
For  I  am  blind,  I  see  not  at  all. 


Is   Tortor 
benet  sewys  syre  longys 
synt  iouqn  whek  re'th  caro 
henna  yv  pyth  a  thyuys 
gallas  lemmyn  lour  ganso 

[tune  fluat  sanguis  super 
lansea  usque  ad  manus  longii 
Militis  et  tune   terget  oculos 
et  in  debit  et  dicit] 


A     blessing     follow     thee,     sir 

Longius 
Sweet  Saint  Jove  love  thee: 
That  is  what  I  choose; 
Thou  art  now  very  able  with  it. 


Longeus 
Arluth  thy'm  gaf .  del  y'th  pysaf 

war  pen  dewlyn 
an  pyth  a  wren  my  ny  wothyen 

rag  ny  wylyn 
hag  a  quellen.  my  ny'n  grussen 

kyn  fen  lethys 
rak  del  won  sur  map  dev  os  pur 

yn  beys  gynys 
a  vaghtyth  glan.  vn  vap  certan 

OS  the  'n  das  du 
ow  ham  wyth  bras,  gaf  thy'm 

a  tas  the  vertu.n^ 


Lord,  forgive  me,  as  I  pray  thee 

On  my  knees; 
What  I  did,  I  knew  not, 

For  I   did  not  see 
And  if  I  had  seen,  I  would  not 

have   done  it. 
Though   I   had  been   killed; 
For,  as  I  know  surely.  Very 
Son  of  God  thou  art. 
In  the  world  born. 
Of   a   virgin    pure;    a    son    cer- 
tainly 
Thou    art    to    the    Father    God. 
My  great  bad  deed,  forgive  me 

0  Father 
By  thy  virtue.ns 


In  the  English,  plays,  it  is  seen,  the  legend  does  not  re- 
ceive much  dramatic  development.  Longinus  is  some- 
times aware  of  the  deed  he  is  about  to  perform  when  he 


115  The  Ancient  Cornish  Drama,    (fifteenth  century),  ed.   and 
translated  by  Ed.  Norris,  vol.  I,  460,  f. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEEATUKE  139 

pierces  the  side  of  Christ,  and  sometimes  unaware  be- 
cause of  his  blindness.  He  is  always  overcome  with  re- 
pentance. In  French  and  German  plays,  the  legend  is 
treated  more  freely.  The  twelfth  century  Resurrection 
du  Sauveur^'^^  shows  Longinus  haggling  over  the  money 
he  is  to  receive  as  recompense  for  the  deed,  and  there  is, 
just  after  the  marvellous  cure  of  Longinus,  a  spirited 
bit  of  dialogue  between  Pilate  and  a  soldier  who  tells  of 
the  miracle.  Longinus  is  shown  as  cruel,  delighting  in 
his  office,  in  the  St.  Gall  Passion,^^^  "So  wil  ich  in  dorch- 
stechen,"  he  says  when  given  the  spear,  "das  ime  sin  herze 
muz  brechen,  sin  zauber  wil  ich  so  rechen."  In  the  Don- 
aueschinger   Passion^^^    he    is    even    more    venomous, — 

"Ich  wil  mich  rachen  ouch  an  dir 
du  woltes  uff  erd  nie  helfen  mir 
un  hest  mich  lauffen  blind  beliben." 

Longinus  is  depicted  as  wicked  also  in  La  Passion  de 
Notre  Seigneur/^^  and  in  Greban's  Mistere  de  la  Pas- 
sion.^'^°  The  reverse  of  this  characterization  as  cruel  is 
found  in  the  Alsf elder  Passion,^^^  where  Longinus  is  rep- 
resented as  merciful: 

"Ach  lieber  knecht,  ganck  mydde! 
der  mentsche  lydet  pyn  und  martet  viel, 
die  ich  nu  gern  enden  wylle." 

116  ThMtre  Frangais  au  Moyen  Age,  Monmerque  et  Michel,  p.  12. 
iiT  Mone,  Schauspiele  des  Mittelalters,  Karlsruhe  1846,  I,  121. 

118  Fifteenth  century,  Mone,  op.  cit.,  II,  326. 

119  Jubinal,  Myst^res  inedits  du  Quinzi^me  Si^cle,  p.  254. 

120  Fifteenth  century,  G.  Paris,  Paris  1878,  346. 

121  Fifteenth    century,   Froning,   Das   Drama   des   Mittelalters, 
III,  796. 


10 


140  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

The  centurion  takes  part  witli  Longinus  in  tlie  Donaue- 
schinger  play.  When  the  blood  falls  on  Longinus's  hand, 
the  centurion  speaks  to  him: 

Loyne,  folg  mir  an  alien  bass, 

die  hend  sind  dir  von  blote  naff, 

Strich  das  hie  an  dine  ougen, 

Gelt   du   werdest   geschen   und    glouben 

das  dieser  mensch  gewarer  Christ 

Und  umb  unschuld  gestorben  ist. 

In  Greban's  Passion  also  the  centurion  is  brought  into 
connection  with  Longinus.  When  the  blood  runs  down 
the  spear,  the  centurion,  astonished  at  seeing  the  blood 
mingled  with  water,  declares  that  this  portends  some  mys- 
tery. He  then  testifies  that  Jesus  is  the  true  son  of  God. 
Longinus's  speech  follows  at  once: 

O  Jhesus,  je  te  cry  mercy 

De  tant  que  je  t'ay  offense 

Ne  jam§s  n'avoye  pense 

Que  tu  feusses  si  haulte  chose, 

Comme  Centurion  propose. 

Tu  es  doulx  et  plain  de  clemence 

Et  en  icelle  confidence 

Le  pur  sang  qui  de  toy  degoute. 

La  chere  et  precieuse  goute 

Prendray  et  mettray  sur  mes  yeux, 

Esperant  qu'il  m'en  soit  de  mieulz 

Et  que  ma  veue  se  ravoye.122 

The  action  is  much  longer  in  these  plays.  Extended 
conversation  occurs  in  connection  with  the  leading  of  Lon- 
ginus to  the  cross,  and  after  arrival  there  the  soldiers 
discuss  at  length  the  probability  as  to  whether  or  not 
Jesus  is  yet  dead.  The  soldiers,  and,  in  some  cases,  Lon- 
ginus's knights,  are  given  names.     In  the  Alsfelder,  as 

122  Le  MysUre  de  la  Passion,  Paris,  1878,  p.  348. 


LONGINUS    IN    ENGLISH    LITEKATUKE  li  1 

he  leads  Longinus  to  the  cross,  the  servant  sings.  Greater 
however  than  the  difference  in  length  of  treatment,  and 
in  the  specific  attributes  given  Longinus  by  way  of  in- 
dividualizing him,  is  the  difference  in  tone  in  these  con- 
tinental plays.  In  them  Longinus  is  no  longer  the  grave, 
more  or  less  definitely  Biblical,  figure  of  the  soldier  at 
the  cross.  He  has  become  a  character,  frequently  a  dis- 
tinctly humorous  one.  He  and  his  servant  furnish 
amusement.  The  contrast  in  consequence  after  his  con- 
version is  all  the  more  striking. 

In  England,  on  the  other  hand,  at  least  so  far  as  the 
extant  texts  are  concerned,  the  story  of  Longinus  in  the 
crucifixion  plays  never  underwent  any  great  dramatic  de- 
velopment; the  episode  was  introduced,  but  was  treated 
in  crude  and  mechanical  fashion.  It  is  possible,  how- 
ever, that  in  England  also  the  episode  was  later  more 
developed.  Among  the  Corpus  Christi  pageants  at  Here- 
ford, according  to  the  Register  of  the  Corporation  for 
1503,  was  a  play,  "Longys  with  his  Knyghtes,"  which 
was  assigned  to  the  "Smythes."'^*  These  'Knyghtes'  in 
all  probability  correspond  to  the  servants  or  companions 
found  in  the  French  and  German  plays,  who  serve  to 
lighten  and  elaborate  the  incident  and  to  increase  the  im- 
portance of  Longinus. 


123  Chambers,  The  Mediaeval  Stage,  II,  Appendix,  368,  369. 


CHAPTER  VII 
LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND 

One  of  the  problems  most  discussed  in  connection  with 
the  Longinus  story  is  its  possible  relationship  with  the 
Baldr  myth,  as  it  appears  in  the  Eddie  poems.  In  the 
well  known  tale  of  Baldr,  the  beautiful,  the  god  without 
blemish,  the  son  of  Odin,  beloved  of  all  the  other  gods, 
save  Loki  alone,  resemblances  to  the  Longinus  story  are 
easily  recognized. 

Baldr's  mother  Erigg  exacted  from  all  things  in  the 
animal,  the  vegetable,  and  the  mineral  worlds,  an  oatli 
that  they  would  not  slay  her  son.  The  gods  then,  secure 
against  the  possibility  of  injuring  Baldr,  found  pastime 
in  hurling  all  sorts  of  missiles  at  his  invulnerable  body. 
But  Loki,  the  evil  one,  took  on  the  form  of  a  woman, 
and  learned  from  Erigg  that  there  was  a  little  tree  west- 
ward from  Valhal  too  young  to  take  the  oath — the  mis- 
tletoe. When  Loki  found  the  blind  God  Ho6r  standing 
on  the  outside  of  the  circle,  he  asked  him  why  he  too  did 
not  shoot  at  Baldr.  And  when  Ho6r  answered  that  he 
could  not  see,  and  had  no  weapon,  Loki  put  the  mistletoe 
arrow  in  his  hand  and  aimed  it  for  him.  Baldr,  struck 
by  it,  fell  to  the  ground  dead.  His  body  was  then  placed 
on  a  funeral  pile  on  his  ship  Ringhorn.  With  Baldr 
was  laid  Nanna,  his  wife,  who  died  from  sorrow,  and 
both  were  burned. 

Bugge  traces  the  IsTorse  form  of  this  legend  to  the  Gos- 
pel of  Nicodemus  and  mediaeval  English  sources,  making 
the  casting  of  the  mistletoe  by  the  blind  HoSr  a  repro- 
duction of  the  thrusting  of  the  spear  into  the  side  of 
142 


LONGINUS    AND    THE    BALDR    LEGEND  143 

Jesus  by  the  blind  Longinus/  B'Ugge  calls  attention  to 
the  fact  that  in  accounts  of  the  legend  current  among  the 
English  and  Irish,  as  "wiell  as  elsewhere,  the  blind  Longi- 
nus  has  the  spear  put  into  his  hand  and  his  aim  directed 
just  as  is  the  case  with  HoSr."  And  he  adds  that  the 
belief  was  common  in  England  and  Ireland  that  Christ 
did  not  die  until  pierced  by  the  lance  of  Longinus.  Loki 
is  identified  with  Lucifer. 

Bugge's  conclusion  with  regard  to  the  connection  of 
the  Baldr  story  and  the  legend  of  Longinus,  is  of  course 
used  by  him  to  support  his  general  thesis:  "that  at  the 
time  when  the  mythological  Eddie  stories  took  shape, 
Norwegians  and  Icelanders  were  not  uninfluenced  by  the 
rest  of  Europe,  but  that  they  were  subjected,  on  the  con- 
trary, to  a  strong  and  lasting  influence  from  the  Chris- 
tian English  and  Irish.'"  This  influence,  he  believes, 
was  operative  in  the  ninth  and  tenth  centuries.  Into 
this  larger  question  we  need  not  at  present  enter.  As 
propounded  by  Bugge,  it  aroused,  as  de  la  Saussaye  re- 
marks, "a  storm  of  both  approval  and  disapproval,  which 
has  not  yet  subsided."*     It  is  sufficient  here  to  note  that 

1  The  Home  of  the  Eddie  Poems,  trans,  by  W.  H.  Schofield, 
1899,  p.  xlii  £f. 

2  Cf.  Acta  8.  JuHanae  {Belles  Lettres  Jvliana,  p.  39.  Acta  Sanc- 
torum, Feb.,  torn.  II,  Feb.  16) .  The  devil  tempts  Juliana:  "Ego  sum 
qui  feci  Adam  et  Evam  in  paradiso  praevaricari;  ego  sum  qui  feci 
ut  Cain  interfeceret  Abel  fratrem  suum  .  .  .  ;  ego  sum  qui  feci 
Judam  tradere  Filium  Dei  .  .  .  ;  ego  sum  qui  compunxi  militera 
lancea  sauciare  latus  Filii  Dei,"  etc.,  etc. 

s  Op.  cit.,  p.  XV. 

4  In  The  Religion  of  the  Teutons,  1902,  p.  38  ff.,  de  la  Saussaye 
gives  a  summary  of  criticism  on  the  question  of  how  far  such 
foreign  influence  must  be  admitted,  for  the  general  subject  of 
Norse  mythology.  F.  Kauffmann,  Balder,  Mythus  und  Sage,  1902, 
has  performed  a  similar  service  for  the  history  of  Baldr  criti- 
cism. 


144  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

it  is  tke  view  of  most  recent  critics  tliat  Bugge  carried 
his  theory  too  far. 

As  to  the  specific  relationship  of  the  story  of  Baldr 
with  that  of  Longinus,  the  present  attitude  is  fairly  sum- 
marized by  Kauffmann: 

"Seine  Deutung  [Bugge's]  der  einzelnen  Figuren  auf  Jesus  oder 
auf  Achilleus  ersclieint  aber  genau  ebenso  willkiirlich  als  die  von 
andern  gegebenen  Deutungen  auf  die  Sonne  oder  auf  die  Unschuld 
Oder  auf  einen  Vegetationsdamon.  Die  Neueren  haben  daher 
entweder  an  der  physikalischen  Bedeutung  (Much)  oder  an  der 
moralischen  Formel  (Better)  festgehalten  und  (wie  z.  B.  Frazer) 
auf  die  Buggesche  Sagenkritili  iibertiaupt  keine  Riicksicbt  genom- 
men.  Selbst  diejenigen  Forscher,  die,  wie  W.  Golther  und  E.  H. 
Meyer,  auf  die  Gedanken  Bugge's  eingegangen  sind,  messen  seinen 
Christlichen  und  antiken  Parallelen  nur  accessorische  Bedeu- 
tung  ZU.5 

It  is  difficult,  in  the  confusion  of  views  at  present  held 
b}'  mythologists,  to  form  any  opinion  as  to  the  origin  of 
the  Baldr  story.  There  are  arguments  offered,  though 
in  no  case  are  they  entirely  satisfactory,  in  support  of 
many  theories.  Baldr  is  explained  as  Apollo,  as  Achilles, 
as  Christ,  as  tree  spirit,  sun-god,  wind-god,  moon-god,  as 
the  representative  of  good  in  the  struggle  between  good 
and  evil,  or  as  peace  in  that  between  peace  and  war,  as 
mere  man  exalted  to  the  position  of  a  god,  or,  as  one  of 
the  most  recent  investigators  of  the  myth  interprets  it, 
as  sin-offering  or  scapegoat  for  his  people.  With  the 
ultimate  origin  of  the  myth  the  present  study  has  no 
concern.  N^or  can  it  undertake  to  decide  whether  Bugge 
is  right  or  not  in  affirming  that  the  form  of  the  story  in 
Saxo  Grammaticus  is  reminiscent  of  an  older  type  of  the 
legend  than  that  found  in  the  Eddie  poems.  The  ques- 
tion of  the  influence  of  Longinus  is  confined  to  the  versions 

5  Op.  cit.,  p.  17. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDK  LEGEND        145 

of  the  story  found  in  scattered  fragments  in  Voluspd,  in 
Gylfaginning,  in  Baldrs  Draumar,  and  Lohasenna. 

As  evidence  in  general  for  English  and  Irish  influence 
on  the  l^orse  lays,  Bugge  points  to  the  fact  that  the 
poems  contain  not  only  words  of  English  origin,  but  also 
'poetic,'  saga-historical  and  mythical  motives,  in  the  ac- 
tion of  the  stories  and  in  their  composition,  which  he 
likewise  traces  to  English  sources. 

His  conclusion  that  the  Baldr  story  is  dependent  on 
the  Christian,  he  bases  on  the  following  resemblances: 
as  in  the  Cliristian  story,  Baldr's  death  is  important; 
all  else  is  subordinate  or  omitted;  his  fall  is  the  turn- 
ing point  in  the  history  of  the  world.  Both  Christ  and 
Baldr  die  in  their  youth.  Baldr's  slayer,  Hot5r,  is  blind, 
but  his  blindness  is  only  connected  with  the  slaying  of 
Baldr,  as  he  is  not  blind  otherwise.  His  blindness,  more- 
over, is  the  outer  sign  of  inner  spiritual  blindness :  "he  is 
not  moved  by  malice,  like  Loki,  but  acts  mthout  know- 
ing what  he  does."  In  this  respect  the  story  is  similar  to 
that  of  Christ  slain  by  the  blind  Longinus — ^the  spiritu- 
ally blind, — the  instrument  used  by  the  devil.  Bugge 
further  notes  that  the  mistletoe,  not  common  in  Scandi- 
navia, is  well  known  in  England;  he  thinks  the  mistle- 
toe weapon  used  by  HoSr  is  explained  by  the  superstition 
current  in  the  west  of  England,  that  the  cross  of  the  cru- 
cifixion was  made  of  mistletoe.  At  the  time  of  Christ 
the  mistletoe  was  a  forest  tree,  but  because  of  the  wicked 
use  to  which  it  was  put,  it  was  cursed  and  became  an  in- 
significant plant.®  Moreover,  both  Baldr  and  Jesus  are 
white,  without  blemish.     Both  visit  hell.     Again  there  is 

6  Bugge  refers  for  this  statement  to  Thiselton  Dyer,  English 
Folk-Lore,  London,  1878,  34.  Cf.  Studien  iiier  die  Entstehung  der 
nordischen  Gotter.  und  Heldensagen,  p.  50. 


146  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

similarity  in  tke  punishment  to  which  their  enemies  are 
doomed;  Loki,  bound  in  consequence  of  Baldr's  death, 
recalls  Lucifer  bound  in  darkness  forever.^ 

Striking  resemblances  are  here  noticeable — ^the  most 
interesting  are  the  main  incidents :  both  Christ  and  Baldr 
are  slain  by  blind  men,  not  themselves  responsible  for  their 
deeds,  but  instigated  by  evil  powers.  One  uses  a  spear; 
the  other  a  mistletoe  dart.  There  are,  however,  difficulties, 
and  I  find  myself,  in  consequence,  of  the  opinion  of 
those  later  critics  who  think  this  Christian  influence  sec- 
ondary in  importance,  and  that  the  myth,  before  com- 
ing in  contact  with  the  Longinus  story,  must  have  had 
much  more  its  present  form  than  Bugge  appears  to  think 
probable. 

§1.     The  Difficulty  of  Chronology 

The  first  obstacle  in  the  way  of  Longinus  as  a  source 
for  the  blindness  of  Ho^r  is  one  of  chronology.  Bugge 
takes  it  that  these  lays  were  written  in  all  probability 
in  England  in  the  ninth  or  tenth  centuries.  It  will  be 
remembered  that  the  first  positive  evidence  of  the  blind- 
ness of  Longinus  is  found  in  a  St.  Gall  MS  of  the  ninth 
century,*  where  the  blood  from  the  side  of  Jesus  is  shown 
touching  the  eyes  of  Longinus.  That  this  trait  of  the 
story  was  even  then  not  generally  current,  is  sho-wm  by  its 
absence  from  the  martyrologies  of  the  ninth  and  tenth 
centuries.  Moreover,  if  these  ISTorse  stories  were  written 
in  England  as  the  result  of  the  Longinus  legend  popular 
there,  they  would  apparently  precede  any  English  story  of 
the  same  type.     The  first  vernacular  account  of  Longinus 

7  Op.  cit.,  pp.  xxxix  ff. 

8  See  above,  p.  48. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND        14:7 

in  England,  as  far  as  I  know,  is  found  in  ^If ric's  sermon 
on  the  Exaltation  of  the  Cross,®  which  belongs  to  the  end 
of  the  tenth  century,  and  which  contains  no  reference  to 
the  blindness. 

§2.     The  Gosfokth  Cross 

Again,  there  are  other  stories  which  explain  both  the 
mistletoe  weapon  and  the  blindness,  and,  consequently, 
make  one  hesitate  to  take  the  Longinus  story,  which  lacks 
many  of  the  other  elements  of  the  legend,  as  the  only,  or 
even  the  most  important,  source  of  the  Baldr  myth.  Be- 
fore considering  these  directly,  I  shall  examine  another  bit 
of  the  evidence  offered  by  Bugge  for  England  as  the  chief 
source  of  influence  in  the  Baldr  story,  a  point  which  is 
more  or  less  closely  connected  with  one  of  these  stories. 

For  confirmation  of  his  theory  Bugge  appeals  to  the 
Gosforth  Cross  in  Cumberland,  which,  as  he  takes  it, 
dates  from  about  the  ninth  century.  Bugge  is  here  mis- 
taken in  the  date.  All  these  early  crosses^**  are  now  con- 
sidered later  than  they  were  formerly.  To  this  state- 
ment the  Gosforth  Cross  forms  no  exception.  Colling- 
wood  connects  it  with  "Irish  Viking  thought  and  work" 
and  remarks:  "It  i-s  just  possible  that  the  idea  was 
brought  to  this  coast,  frequented  by  Vikings,  at  an  early 
time  in  the  eleventh  century."^^  Even  if  the  date  of 
the  cross  did  not  make  it  too  late  to  serve  as  a  source  for 
the  Eddie  lays,  there  would  be  other  difficulties.  For 
this  monument  is  a  curious  mixture  of  pagan  and  Chris- 
tian elements.     Surmounted  by  a  cross,  and  adorned  on 

^EET8.,  94,  p.  114;  46,  p.  107. 

10  Professor  Cook  now  thinks  the  Bewcastle  cross  dates  from 
about  the  middle  of  the  twelfth  century. 

11  Collingwood,  Early  Sculptural  Crosses,  p.  167. 


148  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

one  side  bj  a  crucifixion  scene,  its  other  sides  are  mucli 
more  easily  explained  by  Scandinavian  than  by  Chris- 
tian story.  As  G.  Stephens  says,  it  is  "redolent  of  heath- 
endom." "It  openly  handles  the  true  faith  in  a  light 
and  interpretation,  taken  from  that  olden  creed  which 
the  Gospel  came  to  supplant.  We  have  pagan  Gods  and 
Myths,  honorably  treated,  straight  before  our  eyes."^^ 

Bugge,  in  his  discussion  of  the  Gosforth  Cross,  says: 
"On  the  west  side  of  this  cross  may  be  seen  a  woman 
sitting  over  a  fettered  man.  She  is  holding  a  cup  in  her 
hand  in  such  a  position,  that  she  appears  to  be  pouring 
out  its  contents.  The  man  is  lying  on  his  back,  bound 
hand  and  foot,  as  it  seems,  to  a  rock.  Close  to  the  man's 
head  may  be  seen  the  head  of  a  snake."  He  identifies 
the  man  and  woman  as  the  bound  Loki  and  Sigyn,  his 
wife.  On  the  east  side  he  sees  "Longinus  piercing  the 
crucified  Christ  with  his  lance."  He  adds:  "The  carv- 
ings on  this  monument  argue,  then,  for  the  view  that 
the  author  of  Voluspd  heard  in  northern  England  the 
story  of  Loki  and  Sigyn,  or  verses  which  treated  that 
story.  He  may  possibly  have  seen  the  Gosforth  Cross 
himself,  and  have  been  told  the  story  of  Loki  and  Sigyn 
in  explanation  of  the  scenes  carved  thereon."  In  the 
next  line  he  states  that  "In  Codex  Regius  of  Voluspd, 
the  section  on  Baldrs  death  and  LoTci's  punishment  is 
placed  directly  before  the  strophes  on  the  places  of  tor- 
ment of  the  dead,"  etc.^^  The  question  inevitably  pre- 
sents itself:  if  the  author  is  drawing  his  inspiration 
from  the  cross  story  only,  and  if  he  has  no  other  similar 
legend  of  Baldr  in  mind,  why  does  he  replace  the  cruci- 
fixion of  Christ  with  the  death  of  Baldr,    a  death  ac- 

12  Prof.  8.  Bugge's  Studies  on  Northern  Mythology,  1883,  p.  23. 

13  Bugge,  Home  of  the  Eddie  Poems,  pp.  xlviii-xlix. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND        140 

companied  by  the  oath  of  the  plants,  the  burning  of 
Baldr  and  ]N"anna,  and  other  incidents  not  known  to  the 
story  of  Longinus  ? 

Moreover,  a  wholly  different  explanation  for  the  east 
face  of  the  Gosforth  Cross — and  one  which  connects  it 
directly  with  Scandinavian  mythology — has  been  sug- 
gested by  W.  S.  Calverley/*  "But  who  is  this  central 
figure  on  the  east  side  of  the  cross  ?  who  with  stretched 
out  arms  grasps  the  rope-like  border  of  the  oblong  panel, 
whose  side  is  pierced  with  the  spear.  It  may  be  that 
same  Odin  whom  we  have  already  twice  seen  [elsewhere 
on  the  cross]  ;  for  does  not  Odin's  Rune-song  say : 

'I  know  that  I  hung  on  a  wind-rocked  tree, 
Nine  whole  nights,  with  a  spear  wounded. 
And  to  Odin  offered,  myself  to  myself: 
On  that  tree  of  which  no  one  knows 
From  what  root  it  springs;' 

or  it  may  be  Baldr  the  beautiful,  the  peace-giver,  .  .  . 
who  by  the  treachery  of  Loki  was  slain,  .  .  .  And  so  the 
beardless  man  to  the  left,  holding  the  spear,  may  be 
blind  Hodr;  .  .  .  and  the  woman  to  the  right  may  well 
be  ]!:»[anna,  the  wife  of  Baldr,  ...  or  it  may  be  Frigg, 
who  should  grieve  a  second  time  over  the  death  of  Odin, 
her  beloved." 

If  this  is  Christian  teaching,  and  it  may  be,^^  clearly 
strongly  pagan  myth  is  used — and  myth  that  is  already 
formed  and  consequently  familiar  to  the  people  taught  by 
it,  rather  than  new  myths  in  the  making.  This  episode 
may  represent  a  Baldr — or  Odin — Christ,  but  in  the  cases 
of  other  carvings  on  the  cross,  the  Christian  parallel  is 

"i-^  Archeological  Journal,  XL  (1883),  151  ff. 
15  E.  H.  Meyer,  Die  eddische  Eosmogonie,  p.  22,  shows  how  in 
the  catacombs.  Christian  lessons  were  taught  by  pagan  mythology. 


150  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

not  SO  obvious.  Tlie  Loki  story  lias  no  counterpart  in 
Christian  legend  "Wkich  would  account  for  it  satisfac- 
torily. Again  the  great  wolves  Skioll  and  Hati  rush  to 
attack  the  sun  and  the  moon.  Heimdall,  "the  warder  of 
Asgard"  who  by  a  blast  on  the  "Giallahorn"  has  awak- 
ened "the  Ases  and  Einherian,"  and  Odin  riding  to  seek 
knowledge  in  "Mimer's  well"  as  well  as  other  figures 
readily  explained  by  the  "Voluspd  appear.  The  fact 
that  the  whole  cross  is  indubitably  meant  to  tell  Scan- 
dinavian story  of  course  makes  the  Scandinavian  the 
better  interpretation  for  the  crucifixion  face.  It  would, 
however,  be  difficult  to  explain  this  face  entirely  by 
Christian  analogy  if  it  stood  alone.  As  a  matter  of  fact 
there  is  only  the  semblance  of  a  cross.  The  figure  is 
surrounded  by  a  rope.  The  outstretched  arms  suggest 
the  cross.  There  is  also  unquestionably  a  woman  with 
long  hair  standing  opposite  the  spearman.  This  is  very 
unusual  if  the  cross  represents  the  crucifixion  of  Christ. 
As  showTi  above,  the  early  type  is  that  in  which  the  spear- 
man and  the  sponge  bearer  appear  as  corresponding  fig- 
ures. A  little  later  when  Mary  is  included  in  the  group, 
she  is  placed  opposite  John,  the  first  two  figures  being 
still  retained,  thus  making  two  figures  on  each  side  of 
the  cross.  The  fact  that  such  a  cross  as  this  can  be  ex- 
plained satisfactorily  by  taking  its  carvings  as  illustra- 
tions of  Scandinavian  myth,  and  is  less  easily  explained 
by  Christian  interpretations,  must  suggest  that  in  the 
early  days  of  its  history  it  was  probably  considered 
either  pagan  or  Christian  according  to  the  desire  of  thei 
beholder.  As  an  evidence  of  Christian  coloring  in  the 
Voluspa  it  is  not  convincing.  The  use  of  legend  makes 
it  Scandinavian  and  the  date  of  the  Eddaic  poems,  which 
according   to   Bugge   took   shape   during   the   ninth   and 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND        151 

tenth  centuries,  would  make  the  cross  too  late  for  any 
possible  influence  on  their  formation. 

§3.     The  Odin  Stoey 

This  Odin  story  is  itself  interesting  as  a  possible  pro- 
totype of  the  Baldr  legend.  Bugge  would  explain  it  as 
also  due  to  the  influence  of  the  crucifixion  of  Christ. 
Others  differ.  Mogk^®  says  of  the  lines  quoted  from,  the 
Voluspd  ''Die  Windgott  erzahlt,  wie  er  in  seiner  Jugend 
neun  ISTachte  in  Weltenbaume  gehangen,  mit  dem  Speere 
verwundet,  er  sich  selbst  geopfert,  und  wie  er  da  nie- 
dergespaht  und  die  Runen  gehoben  und  von  Mimir  ge- 
lernt  und  den  Dichtermeet  geschopft  habe,  bis  er  zu  dem 
wurde,  was  er  jetzt  vor  der  Welt  ist:  das  weiseste  aller 
Wesen."" 

O.  Bray  commjents  on  the  same  passage  in  Voluspd: 
"The  sacrifice  depicted  resembles  in  many  points  the  hu- 
man sacrifices  that  were  offered  to  Odin."  Concerning 
the  general  type  to  which  this  story  belongs,  she  says: 
"This  legend  in  outline  is  of  a  god — call  him  Odin, 
Baldr,  Osiris,  Ishtar,  Adonis, — who  must  be  sacrificed 
or  voluntarily  die  in  order  that  he  may  rise  again  in 
fullness  of  power,  or  even  give  place  to  some  new  god. 
Sometimes  it  is  clear  that  he  typifies  the  beneficent  pow- 
ers of  nature,  whether  as  the  sun  or  the  spring,  or  sum- 
mer f  ruitf  ulness ;  but  occasionally,  as  here,  his  signifi- 
cance is  more  doubtful."^* 

16  Paul's  Grundriss  III,  343:  "Christlichen  Einfluss,  d.  h.  den 
am  Kreuze  hangenden  Christus,  in  diesem  Mythus  zu  finden,  wie 
Bugge  will,  ist  nicht  notig."  C.  de  la  Saussaye,  op.  cit.,  p.  231, 
thinks  Bugge's  view  is  not  to  be  followed.  He  cites  Gering  and 
Mullenhoff. 

17  Paul's  Grundriss  II,  588. 

18  The  Elder  Edda,  1908,  p.  xxx. 


152  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGII!irUS 

'Not  very  different  from  this  last  conception  is  Frazer's 
idea  of  Odin,  as  he  considers  Adonis,  Attis  and  Osiris 
different  names  for  the  same  god.  "The  human  victinis 
dedicated  to  Odin,"  says  Frazer,  "were  regularly  put  to 
death  by  hanging,  or  by  a  combination  of  hanging  and 
stabbing,  the  man  being  strung  up  to  a  tree  or  a  gallows, 
and  then  wounded  with  a  spear."^®  Frazer  sees  the 
counterpart  of  these  Odin  sacrifices  in  the  Attis  cult. 
Taking  Marsyas,  who  was  hanged  on  a  tree  (and  Avhose 
story  is  attested),  as  a  double  of  Attis,  he  remarks:  "We 
may  conjecture  that  in  the  old  days  the  priest  who  bore 
the  name  and  played  the  part  of  Afetis  at  the  spring  fes- 
tival of  Cybele,  was  regularly  hanged  or  otherwise  slain 
upon  the  sacred  tree,  and  that  this  barbarous  custom 
was  afterwards  mitigated  into  the  form  in  which  it  is 
known  to  lis  in  later  times,  when  the  priest  merely  drew 
blood  from  his  body  under  the  tree  and  attached  an  effigy 
instead  of  himself  to  its  trunk.""" 

Bugge's  opinion  is  made  the  less  convincing  by  the 
fact  that  we  find  connected  with  sacrifices  to  Odin  such 
stories  as  this  of  Vikar.  Kauffmann  tells  it,  paraphrasing 
the  ISTorse,  as  follows: 

"Konig  Vikarr  zeigte  sich  als  gewaltiger  Kriegsmann.  Er  hatte 
viele  ausgezeichnete  Kampen  urn  sich,  aber  der  angesehenste  von 
alien  und  der  Liebling  des  Konigs  war  StarkaSr;  er  stand  ihm 
zunachst  an  Rang,  war  sein  Berater  und  Heerfiihrer  und  seit 
langen  Jahren  in  seinem  Dienst.  Da  segelte  Vikarr  mit  starker 
Mannschaft  von  Agt5ir  nordwarts  nach  H9r8aland  musste  jedoch 
wegen  schlecten  Welters  lange  in  den  Scharen  liegen  bleiben.   Man 

19  S.  Bugge,  Stud,  iiher  die  Entstehung  der  nord.  Gotter-  u.  Hel- 
densagen,  1889,  p.  339;  K.  Simrock,  Die  Edda,  p.  382;  Mullenhoff, 
Deutsche  Alterthumskunde  IV,  244  seq.;  H.  M.  Chadwick,  The 
Cult  of  Othin,  1899,  pp.  3-20.  All  these  are  cited  by  Frazer, 
Adonis,  Attis,  Osiris,  p.  186.  -^ 

20  Adonis,  Attis,  Osiris,  p.  186. 


LONGINUS    AND    THE    BALDR    LEGEND  153 

holte  ein  Orakel  ein;  dabei  wurde  kundgegeben,  dass  Odin  als  Opfer 
nach  dem  Loos  einen  Mann  aus  der  Kriegsschar  fordere.  Es 
wurde  geloost  und  es  sprang  das  Loos  Konig  Vikars  heraus.  Alle 
verstummten.  Man  kam  iiberein,  sich  iiber  die  Notlage  zu  beraten. 
Um  Mitternacht  weckte  Hrossharsgrani  den  StarkaSr  und  forderte 
ihn  auf,  ihm  zu  folgen.  Sie  nahmen  ein  kleines  Boot,  ruderten 
zu  einer  Insel  hiniiber.  wanderten  das  Geholz  hinauf,  kamen  an 
eine  Rodung  und  trafen  dort  eine  grosse  Versammlung.  Da 
sassen  elf  Manner  auf  Stiihlen;  ein  zwolfter  Sitz  war  leer;  den 
nahm  Hrossharsgrani  ein  und  alle  begriissten  ihn  als  Odin.  Er 
forderte  die  Richter  auf,  dem  StarkaSr  sein  Schicksal  zu  bestim- 
men.  porr  legte  ihm  das  eine,  Odin  anderes  auf  und  als  dies 
vollendet  war,  ging  die  Versammlung  auseinander.  Da  sagte 
Hrossharsgrani  zu  StarkaSr,  er  habe  fiir  das  ihm  erwiesene  Wohl- 
wollen  auf  Dankbarkeit  Anspruch  und  verlange  von  ihm  den 
Konig  Vikarr.  Starkat5r  sagte  zu.  Da  gab  ihm  Hrossharsgrani 
einen  Speer  (geirr)  in  die  Hand  und  sagte,  das  solle  ein  Rohr- 
stengel  sein  (reyrsproti) .  Am  andern  Morgen  versammelten  sich 
die  Berater  des  Konigs  und  einigten  sich,  das  Opfer  zu  veran- 
stalten.  Auf  dem  Opferplatz  stand  eine  Fohre  und  ein  hoher 
Baumstumpf.  Unten  an  der  Fdhre  befand  sich  ein  diinner  Ast 
(kvistr  mjor,  vgl.  Vol.  32,  33).  StarkaSr  stieg  auf  den  Baum- 
stumpf, bog  den  diinnen  Ast  herab  und  sprach  zu  dem  Konig: 
'Nun  ist  dein  Galgen  fertig,  er  sieht  nicht  eben  gefahrlich  aus, 
komm  her,  ich  will  dir  die  Wide  um  den  Hals  legen.'  Der  Konig 
antwortete:  '1st  dies  nicht  gefahrlicher  als  es  aussieht,  dann 
diirfte  es  mir  nichts  schaden.'  Er  trat  auf  den  Baumstumpf, 
Starkat5r  legte  ihm  die  Wide  um  den  Hals,  stach  den  Konig  mit 
dem  Rohrstengel,  rief:  'Jetzt  opfere  ich  dich  dem  Odin'  und 
liess  dem  Fohrenast  los.  Der  Rohrstengel  aber  war  zum  Speer 
ge warden  und  hatte  den  Konig  durchborht;  oben  im  Gezweig 
schwebte  er  und  starb."2i 

Bugge  thinks  this  story  of  Vikar  not  uninfluenced  bj 
the  account  in  the  Hdvamdl  of  Odin's  hanging  himself.^^ 
But  though  he  thinks  the  Ilavamal  story  of  Odin  shows 
Christian  influence,  he  explains  otherwise  other  sacrifices 

21  Kauffmann,  op.  cit.,  p.  247  f.  Cf.  Ranisch,  Gautrekssaga,  Pa- 
laestra XI,  p.  cix;  cf.  Detter,  Beitr,  19,  p.  500;  C.  de  la  Saussaye, 
op.  cit.,  p.  372;  Bugge,  Studien,  p.  339  ff. 

22  Bugge,  Studien,  342. 


154  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

to  Odin.  "Das  Kesultat  der  obigen  Aiiseinandersetziing 
ist  also,  dass  der  MytLus,  OSinn  sei  am  Galgen  als  Opfer 
gehangen,  erst  in  der  Wikingerzeit  durcli  den  Einfluss 
von  Erzahlungen  irisclier  oder  englisclier  Christen  liber 
Christus  entstanden  ist,  walirend  der  Braueli  dem  OSinn 
oder  Wodan  Menschen  am  Galgen  zu  opfem  bei  den 
jSTordgennanen  uralt  und  aclit  germanisch  ist.  Dieser 
Branch  mnsste  aber  in  hohem  Grade  dazii  beitragen,  dass 
die  Erzahlung  von  Christus,  der  als  Opfer  am  Galgen 
hieng,  von  heidnischen  ISTordleuten  in  einen  Mythus  von 
06inn  verwandelt  wurde,  nnd  mnsste  unwilklirlich  mit 
der  eigenen  Opfemng  des  Gottes  am  Galgen  in  Ver- 
bindung  gebracht  werden."^^ 

If,  howiever,  Odin  sacrifices  are  primitive  Germanic, 
the  elements  in  the  Vikar  story  not  explained  by  Odin 
or  Christian  influence,  such  as  the  piercing  with  the 
cane  which  turned  to  a  spear  when  dedicated  to  Odin, 
may  also  well  be  primitive.^* 

These  stories  make  it  seem  probable  that  Baldr  was 
substituted  for  Odin,  or  that  Baldr  was  himself  a  sac- 
rifice to  Odin.  The  Baldr  story  finds  close  parallel  in 
the  Vikar.  Odin  replaces  Loki  as  the  real  opponent  of 
the  victim;  StarkaSr,  HoSr;  and  Vikar,  Baldr.  The 
weapons  used — plants  that  change  into  spears — in  them- 
selves suggest  some  ritual  tradition.  Such  ritual  tradi- 
tions are  offered  in  explanation  of  the  story  by  two  of 
the  most  recent  interpretations  of  the  myth,  those  of 
Frazer  and  Kauffmann. 

2sibid.,  344  f. 

24  This  must  recall  what  looks  like  a  Christian  parallel. 
Gospel  of  Peter,  Swete  1893,  25:  "Others  pierced  Him  with  a 
reed."  There  is  no  suggestion  of  death  here,  however.  It  is 
part  of  the  mocking  and  may  be  due  merely  to  the  smiting  on  the 
head  with  a  reed  found  in  Matthew. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDK  LEGEND        155 


§4.     Feazer^s  Explanation  of  the  Baldr  Myth. 

Frazer,  in  discussing  the  Baldr  myth,  selects  as  the 
two  fundamentally  important  traits:  (1)  pulling  the  mis- 
tletoe, and  (2)  burning  the  god.^^  Neither  of  them  is 
explained,  it  will  be  noticed,  by  the  Longinus  story. 

In  connection  with  the  second  point,  Frazer  shows 
that  in  most  parts  of  Europe  bonfires  on  certain  days 
of  the  year  have  been  burned  from  time  immemorial. 
He  quotes  Mannhardt,"®  as  authority  for  the  statement 
that  in  the  eighth  century  attempts  were  made  by 
Christian  synods  "to  put  them  down  as  heathenish  rites." 
By  numerous  illustrations  drawn  from  customs  in  Rhen- 
ish Prussia,  in  the  Tyrol,  in  Swabia,  in  Oldenburg,  in 
Aachen  and  other  parts  of  Grermany;  in  the  Highlands 
of  Scotland,  in  Sweden,  in  France,  in  England,  in  Ire- 
land, in  Slavonic  countries,  in  Greece,  Italy  and  Spain, 
he  shows  how  common  these  fires  were.  Moreover,  he 
brings  out  many  traces  of  human  sacrifices  in  these  cus- 
toms. The  burning  of  efiigies  in  the  midsummer  fires 
was  not  uncommon.  These  efiigies,  from  numerous  in- 
dications, represented  either  the  fertilizing  tree  spirit,  or 
the  spirit  of  vegetation.  Frazer  says:  "When  the  god 
happens  to  be  a  deity  of  vegetation,  there  are  special 
reasons  why  he  should  die  by  fire.  For  light  and  heat 
are  necessary  to  vegetable  growth;  and,  on  the  principle 
of  sympathetic  magic,  by  subjecting  the  personal  repre- 
sentative of  vegetation  to  their  influence,  you  secure  a 
supply  of  these  necessaries  for  trees  and  crops."^^     The 

25  Golden  Bough,  II,  246. 

26  Baumkultus,  p.  518  seq.  For  development  of  the  "Johannis 
feuer"  theory  see  Kauffmann,  op.  cit.,  p.  9. 

27  Oolden  Bough,  II,  276. 

11 


156  THE    LEGEND    OF    LOIS^GIXUS 

fact  that  in  Sweden  these  fires  were  known  as  Baldr's 
bale-fires,  according  to  Frazer,  "puts  their  connection  with 
Baldr  beyond  the  reach  of  doubt,  and  makes  it  certain  that 
in  former  times  either  a  living  representative  or  an  effigy 
of  Baldr  must  have  been  annually  burned  in  them.""* 

The  fires  are  generally  burned  at  midsummer,  and  it 
is  customary  also  (among  Celts  and  Scandinavians)  to 
gather  mistletoe  at  midsummer.''*  Frazer  shows  that  oak 
was  the  wood  used  in  these  fires,  and  so  establishes  con- 
nection with  the  mistletoe  element  of  the  legend.  Baldr 
was  the  spirit  of  the  oak;  the  mistletoe,  according  to 
primitive  belief,  was  the  seat  of  life  of  the  oak.  It  is 
logical  to  suppose  that,  like  the  tree,  Baldr  could  be  neither 
killed  nor  wounded  so  long  as  the  mistletoe  remained  un- 
injured. "The  pulling  of  the  mistletoe  was  thus  at  once 
the  signal  and  the  cause  of  his  death."  Baldr's  story, 
then,  if  we  accept  Frazer's  theory,  is  to  be  connected 
■with  vegetation  rites  of  the  most  primitive  kind. 

Frazer  does  not,  it  is  true,  explain  the  blindness  of  HotJr. 
There  is  no  mention  of  blindness  in  the  stories  which 
have  to  do  with  tree-spirit  rites.  Very  similar,  however, 
are  the  corn-spirit  rites.  In  both  ceremonies,  the  spirit 
is  represented  by  a  person,  and  in  both  its  spirit  has  fer- 
tilizing influence.  Clearly  they  are  nearly  akin.  Frazer, 
in  his  discussion  of  the  Baldr  myth,  calls  attention  to 
the  fact  that  the  slayers  of  the  corn-spirit  are  frequently 
blindfolded.  He  cites  instances  of  the  custom  in  Ireland. 
Sometimes  the  corn-spirit  was  represented  by  a  cock  tied 
upon  a  man's  back.  Other  men,  blindfolded,  struck  at 
it  ^vith  branches,  until  it  died.^° 

28lMd.,  II,  289-290. 

29  IMd.,  II,  295.  J 

soiud.,  II,  360. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND        157 


§5.     Kauffmann's  Theory 

Kaiiffmann,  also,  bases  his  tlieory  on  a  rite.  He  thinks 
IFrazer's  study  important  and,  to  an  extent,  trustworthy, 
but  urges  the  objection  that  only  Baldr  is  accounted  for 
by  his  explanation,  that  Ho^r,  Loki,  and  the  other  gods 
are  not  included.^^  "]S[un  scheinen  die  der  Opferung 
Balders  gleichenden  Opferspiele  der  Gegenwart  eben  die 
Schlussfolgerung  nahezulegen,  dass  ununterbrochen  und 
in  steter  Folge  am  ende  eines  jeden  Jahres  ein  bildlich  an 
das  mythische  Uropf er  erinnerndes  Siihnopf er  dargebracht 
"wurde.  Frazer  hat  diesen  Schluss  gezogen  und  ich  bin 
geneigt,  mich  ihm  anzuschliessen.  ]^ur  wiirden  nicht 
die  Johannisfeuer,  sondem  die  um  die  Jahreswende 
(alten  Stils)  datierten  Festbrauches  des  Todaustragens 
ein  Anrecht  darauf  besitzen,  die  Ueberbleibsel  eines  alt- 
germanischen  Jahresopfers  zu  enthalten,  das  im  Balder- 
mythus  seine  magische  Weihe  fand.'"^  And  again, 
"Schliesslich  vertrag*t  sich  Balders  Opferung  als  'Siin- 
denbock'  aufs  beste  mit  dem  Volksbrauch,  am  Ende  jedes 
Jahres  auf  einen  erlesenen  Opferkonig  spielweise  die 
Jahresschuld  abzuladen  und  die  Siihnung  und  Lauterung 
der  Gemeinde  zu  bewerkstelligen." 

Kauffmann  suggests  also  that  Vali,  the  son  of  Odin 
and  Rind,  and  the  avenger  of  Baldr's  death,  may  be  the 
god  of  the  new  year,  as  distinguished  from  Baldr,  the 
god  of  the  old  or  dying  year.^^ 

Ho6r  as  the  one  who  makes  the  sacrifice,  is  equal  with 
Baldr.      ''Die   beiden    im    Opfersakrament   verbundenen 

31  Kauffmann,  op.  cit.,  pp.  12,  13. 
52  Ibid.,  p.  302. 
33  76td.,  p.  303. 


158  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Hauptpersonen  werden  gerne  als  Briider  bezeiclinet  und 
gottliche  Wesensgemeinschaft  trifft  aucli  fiir  Ho6r  und 
Balder  zu."^*  HoSr,  however,  according  to  the  tradition 
of  such  ritual,  must  be  punished.  StarkaSr,  the  slayer 
of  Vikar  as  an  Odin-sacrifice,  had  to  flee;  so  Ho6r  is 
banished.^^ 

As  to  the  mistletoe,  Kauffmann  finds  it  impossible  to 
decide  which  is  the  original  form  of  the  legend — that  in 
which  the  sword  figured,  as  in  Saxo,  or  that  where  the 
mistletoe  was  used,  as  in  the  Voluspd.^^  He  calls  atten- 
tion to  the  folk  idea  that  the  soul  (or  the  death)  of  a 
person  may  exist  in  a  plant — as  the  mistletoe,  or  in  a 
stone,  or  in  a  fish,  and  to  the  fact  that  the  person  may 
not  be  injured  in  any  way  whatsoever,  "weil  seine  Seele 
nicht  in  ihm  ist."^^ 

He  likens  the  use  of  the  mistletoe  in  the  case  of  Baldr's 
death  to  that  of  the  reyrsproti  in  Vikar's.  In  both  cases 
the  sacrificial  weapon  takes  the  form  of  a  plant  that  be- 
comes a  spear  when  employed  in  the  sacrifice.'*  In  a 
note  he  calls  attention  to  the  custom  among  certain  peo- 
ples of  using  in  the  sacrifice  not  knives,  but  reeds.  He 
says:  "Dem  reyrteinn  des  Odin  entspricht  der  mistel- 
teinn  des  Loki.  Beide  sind  als  biegsame  zweige  von  den 
heiligen  Baumen  der  Gotter  geholt  und  als  deren  Opfer- 
waffen  dedacht.'"^ 

34  lUd.,  p.  274. 

35  IMd.,  p.  260.  Note  here  the  equality  which  Kauffmann  thinks 
essential  in  the  Baldr-Loki  relation  as  compared  with  the  op- 
ponents in  the  Christian  story. 

36/brc?.,  p.  116. 

37  Ihid.,  pp.  157  ff. 

38  IMd.,  p.  249. 

39 /bid.,  p.  250.  Cf.  Gruppe,  Bericht  ilber  Myth,  und  Religions- 
geschichte,  Leipzig,  1908,  p.  373.  "Die  Mistel  ist  in  der  germa- 
nischen  Welt  allgemein  eine  Zauber-und  Wunderpflanze,  die  in 


LONGINUS    AXD    THE    BALDE    LEGEND  159 

The  blindness  of  HoSr,  Kauffmann  explains  as  fol- 
lows: "Die  (episodische)  'Blindheit'  HoSrs  ist  das 
S}anbol  seiner   (zeitweiligen)    Zugehorigkeit  zu  Loki."*" 

Trazer,  it  was  noted,  made  the  important  traits  the 
pulling  of  the  mistletoe  and  the  burning  of  the  god. 
Kauffmann  emphasizes  the  second  of  these,  though  he 
ascribes  a  larger  motive — the  god  is  burned  not  only  to 
insure  fertility  and  consequent  prosperity,  but  to  free 
men  from  sin  and  to  give  new  life  to  the  people.  He  ac- 
cepts the  suggestion  of  the  mistletoe-soul,  but — though  he 
is  not  clear  on  this  point — appears  to  apply  it  differ- 
ently. He  makes  the  mistletoe  the  symbol  of  Loki,  god 
of  the  underworld  or  of  death — and,  consequently,  a  death- 
bringing  instrument. 

If  Frazer  and  Kauffmann  are  right  in  making  the 
burning  of  the  god  the  most  important  trait  in  the  Baldr 
story,  then  likeness  to  Longinus  ceases.  Any  one  of  the 
explanations  offered  in  these  discussions  in  regard  to  the 
mistletoe — as  the  seat  of  the  soul  of  the  oak,  and  so  of  the 
oak  spirit,  as  Odin-weapon,  like  the  reyrsyroti,  or  as 
Loki's  peculiar  magic  symbol — is  more  satisfactory  than 
the  view  that  it  developed  from  the  lance  of  Longinus. 
The  idea  that  the  spearman  is  himself  not  responsible  for 
the  deed  is  not  particularly  stressed  by  Frazer  or  Kauff- 

besonderer  Beziehung  zur  Erregung  und  Loschung  des  Feuers  zu 
stehen  scheint,  was  wahrscheinlich  mit  der  Verwendung  der 
Mistel  beim  Reibefeuerzeug  jusammenhangt.  Aus  eben  diesera 
Grunde  ist  sie  wohl  in  die  Sage  vom  Feuergott  Loki  gekommen." 
40  Kauffmann,  op.  cit.,  p.  244.  Cf.  Better,  Beitrdge,  z.  Ge- 
scMchte  d.  deutsch.  Sprach.  u.  Litt.,  XIX,  504,  who  makes  Odin 
the  original  evil  spirit  in  the  Baldr  story,  from  the  fact  (1)  that 
Odin,  the  one-eyed  god  of  death,  was  probably  the  original  blind 
god;  and  (2)  from  the  mistletoe  motive.  Cf.  the  Vikar  story 
where  the  reyrsproti  was  changed  to  a  spear  by  StarkaSr's  words: 
"Now  give  I  thee  to  Odin." 


160  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

mann,  thougli  in  both  cases  tlie  officiating  sacrificial 
priest,  or  spearman,  would  be  merely  the  instrument  of 
the  opposing  power.  It  is  explained  in  the  Odin-sacri- 
fice stories  where  Odin  is  the  real  opponent.  Blindness 
would  naturally  be  implied  in  any  of  these  cases,  from 
the  very  fact  that  the  spearman  is  an  instrument. 

§6.     The  Blind  Speakman 

This  idea  of  the  slaying  of  a  god  by  one  who  is  blind 
is,  however,  widespread.  A  curious  instance  of  such 
blindness,  which  is  connected  also  with  vegetation  rites 
for  the  production  of  life,  is  one  that  comes  from  Silesia. 
The  Whitsuntide  king  was  selected  as  follows :  A  man  of 
straw  after  trial  was  condemned  to  death,  and  fastened 
to  a  stake  for  execution.  The  young  men,  blindfolded, 
tried  to  pierce  him  with  a  spear.  The  successful  one  be- 
came king.*^ 

The  same  thing  is  suggested  in  this  account  of  the 
Mahavrata,  by  A.  B.  Keith.  After  discussing  the  custom 
of  removing  the  skin  of  the  sacrificed  animal,  he  adds: 
"More  obscure  is  another  rite  mentioned  in  all  the  sources. 
To  the  left  of  the  Agnldhra  priest  were  placed  twO'  posts, 
on  which  was  hung  up  as  a  target  a  completely  round  skin ; 
or  ,  .  .  two  skins,  one  for  the  chief  archer,  and  the  other 
for  any  others  who  were  good  shots.  .  .  .  The  exact  mean- 
ing of  the  ritual  is  by  no  means  clear.  It  may  be  com- 
pared with  the  Lapp  ritual;  after  slaying  a  bear  .  .  . 
they  hung  its  skin  on  a  post  and  women,  blindfolded,  shot 
arrows  at  it."*^ 

41  Frazer,  Lectures  on  Early  Hist,  of  Kingship,  1905,  p.  166. 

42  Transactions  of  the  Third  International  Congress  for  the 
Hist,  of  Religion,  II,  56,  57. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDR  LEGEND        161 

Irish  hero  tales  also  offer  parallels.  Sometimes  the 
suggestion  is  only  that  the  hero  is  slain  from  ambush  or 
hj  treachery;  sometimes  the  slayer  is  blind,  or  has  some 
affliction  of  the  eyes. 

Rhys  tries  to  show  parallelism  between  the  sun-god 
Liig  (or  Cuchulainn)  and  Baldr.  Just  as  HoSr  (blind) 
slew  Balder  with  the  mistletoe  at  the  instigation  of  Loki, 
Cuchulainn  was  slain  by  Ere  or  Lugaid,  apparently  at  the 
instigation  of  the  one-eyed  daughters  of  Calatin.  Rhys 
points  out  similarity  in  the  names  of  the  avengers  of  the 
two  heroes,  and  in  the  way  the  slayers  are  caught — both  in 
water.'**  All  this  is  far  from  clear  as  Rhys  works  it  out, 
but  the  suggestion  is  interesting. 

Lieu,,  the  sun-god  of  the  Britons,  is  killed  by  his  ^vife's 
lover  Grouw.  The  wife  finds  out  from  Lieu  how  he  can 
be  killed.  "He  told  her  that  he  could  only  die  in  one 
way;  he  could  not  be  killed  either  inside  or  outside  a 
house,  either  on  horseback  or  on  foot,  but  that  if  a  spear 
that  had  been  a  year  in  the  making,  and  which  was  never 
worked  upon  except  during  the  sacrifice  on  Sunday,  were 
to  be  cast  at  him  as  he  stood  beneath  a  roof  of  thatch, 
after  having  just  bathed,  with  one  foot  upon  the  edge 
of  the  bath  and  the  other  upon  a  buck  goat's  back,  it 
would  cause  his  death."  Grouw  made  the  spear;  the 
wife  prepared  the  bath.  Grouw,  from  ambush,  flung  the 
spear  and  struck  Lieu,  who  turned  into  an  eagle,  from 
whose  wound  great  pieces  of  carrion  are  continually  fall- 

•  44 

Another  case  is  found  in  the  slaying  of  ]^uada  by  Balor 
of  the  Evil  Eye.     Balor,  the  most  terrible  of  the  For- 

43  Origin  and  Growth  of  Religion  as  Illustrated  hy  Celtic  Hea- 
thendom, p.  529  f.;  cf.  Lady  Gregory,  Cuchulain,  1903,  p.  339. 

44  Charles  Squire,  The  Mythology  of  the  British  Isles,  1905,  p. 
266;  cf.  ibid.,  p.  16. 


162  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

mors,  had  two  eyes,  but  one  was  always  kept  shut,  for  it 
slew  anyone  on  whom  he  looked.  "This  malignant  qual- 
ity of  Balor's  eye  was  not  natural  to  him,  but  was  the 
result  of  an  accident.  Urged  by  curiosity,  he  once  looked 
in  at  the  window  of  a  house  where  his  father's  sorcerers 
were  preparing  a  magic  potion,  and  the  poisonous  smoke 
from  the  cauldron  reached  his  eye,  infecting  it  with  so 
much  of  its  own  deadly  nature  as  to  make  it  disastrous 
to  others.  .  .  .  Balor  was  allowed  to  live  only  on  con- 
dition that  he  kept  his  terrible  eye  shut.  On  days  of 
battle  he  was  placed  opposite  to  the  enemy,  and  the  lid  of 
the  destroying  eye  was  lifted  up  with  a  hook."*^  It  is 
perhaps  worth  noting  that  Cumall,  who  is  supposed  to 
be  ISTuada  reincarnated,  shared  a  somewhat  similar  fate, 
Cumall  being  slain  by  the  one-eyed  Aed.*® 

Cumall  was  slain  by  one  who  has  many  names,  Arc 
Dubh  (Black-Black)  and  Aed  (afterwards  Goll).  Goll 
was  wounded  by  Luchtet  and  his  eye  destroyed,  hence 
his  name  became  Goll.  His  treachery  cost  Cumall  his 
life.  Asked  by  the  enemies  of  Cumall  how  he  could  be 
slain,  he  refused  to  tell  until  he  was  threatened  with 
death.  Then  he  said  Cumall  could  be  slain  only  by  his 
own  sword,  and  with  that  only  when  the  hero  was  in  the 
arms  of  his  wife.  Arc  Dubh  traitorously  placed  the  sword 
on  Cumall's  neck  when  he  was  asleep,  and  so  killed 
him.*^ 

One  wonders  why  the  slayer  of  gods  and  heroes  is  so 
often  made  blind.  We  have  seen  that  in  the  case  of  Lon- 
ginus,  the  legend  that  grew  up  about  the  piercer  of  the 
side  of  Jesus  could  easily  be  explained  on  the  score  that 
spiritual    blindness    was   often   mistakenly    described    as 

45  Squire,  op.  cit.,  p.  48. 

46  Henderson,  Celt.  Revietc,  I,  204. 

47  George  Henderson,  Celtic  Review,  I  (1904-05),  204,  and  II,  5. 


LONGINUS    AND    THE    BALDE    LEGEND  16 '5 

physical.  Changes  like  this  were  constantly  taking  place. 
Such  tales,  as  these  just  summarized,  however,  suggest  an- 
other possible  origin.  It  would  not  be  unnatural  for 
such  a  widespread  folk  idea  to  attach  itself  also  to  the 
slayer  of  Christ.  Either  explanation  would  have  re- 
mained apocryphal. 

Though  the  tracing  of  the  element  of  blindness  to  such 
ancient  rites  as  the  killing  of  the  corn-spirit  is  entirely 
reasonable,  another  ancient  conception  may  also  have  af- 
fected it.  The  slayer  may  simply  be  Death,  who  blindly 
slays  all.  This  conjecture  is  made  plausible  by  the  cir- 
cumstance that  death  is  frequently  represented  with  a 
spear.  In  a  British  Museum  MS  (Addit.  37,049),  of  the 
first  half  of  the  fifteenth  century,  Death  with  a  spear  is 
seen  piercing  the  right  side  of  a  man  in  bed.  Blood  runs 
from  the  wound  just  as  in  the  crucifixion.     Death  says, 

"I  have  sought  the  many  a  day 
For  to  have  the  to  my  pray."48 

In  MS  Stowe  39,  The  Desert  of  Religion,  on  the  last 
leaf.  Death,  armed  with  a  spear,  confronts  a  knight,  a 
king,  and  an  archbishop,  with  verses  appropriate  to  each.*** 
The  following  lines  from  Chaucer  also  describe  Death  with 
a  spear  as  his  weapon : 

Ther  cam  a  privee  thief,  men  clepeth  Death, 
That  in  this  centre  al  the  peple  sleith, 
And  with  his  spere  he  smoot  his  herte  a-too 
And  wente  his  wey  with-outan  wordes  mo.so 

48  Fol.  38.  Miss  Louise  Dudley  called  my  attention  to  these 
illustrations;  cf.  in  the  same  MS,  fols.  19,  39b,  40b,  42a,  42b,  43a 
and  69. 

49  Cat.  of  Stowe  MS,  Brit.  Mus.  1895,  p.  24;  cf.  Cotton  MS,  Faust- 
ina B.  6,  §2;  Add.  37049,  §43,  fol.  46. 

50  Pardoner's  Tale,  675  ff. 


164  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Many  other  instances  might  be  cited. ^^ 

A  suggestion  that  in  some  confused  way  Longinus 
represented  malign  power,  is  shown  in  this  queer  old 
ballad,  which  still  preserves  the  tradition  in  Wales.  The 
ballad  is  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  Our  Lady  and 
the  Holy  Child :  "Fair  Mother  Mary,  sleepest  thou  ?  Yes. 
my  dear  Son,  I  am  dreaming.  Fair  mother,  what  seest 
thou  in  thy  dream  ?  I  see  Thee  beset,  and  pursued,  and 
taken,  and  crucified,  and  Thy  hands  and  feet  nailed.  A 
dark  blind  man,  deceived  by  the  Fiend,^^  is  piercing 
Thee  in  Thy  right  side  with  the  point  of  a  spear;  and 
all  Thy  blessed  Blood  is  being  shed."^^  Whether  the 
blind  piercer  is  Death  with  a  spear  or  not,  this  idea  and 
the  fact  that  it  was  so  often  shown  pictorially  would  in- 
fluence the  story  of  Longinus  and  would  tend  to  make  the 
spearman  a  dark,  evil  force. 

In  view  of  all  these  stories,  wdiich  show  more  or  less 
similar  traits — most  of  which  obviously  could  not  go  back 
to  the  Longinus  legend  as  a  source — one  hesitates  to  accept 
the  Baldr  myth  as  in  any  sense  derived  from  the  Christian 
legend.  Whatever  parallels  may  exist  between  Baldr  and 
the  Christian  story  are  probably  to  be  explained  by  the 
fact  that  the  Baldr  myth,  going  back  as  it  does  to  primi- 
tive ritual  customs,  was,  before  it  came  in  contact  with 
the  Christian  story,  made  up  of  much  the  same  essential 
traits,  that  now  characterize  it;  though  in  its  later  stages, 
it  is  highly  probable  that  the  Norse  tale  has  been  some- 
what influenced  by  tlie  Christian. 

51  Court  of  Love,  1.294  "Though  Deth  therfore  me  thirleth  with 
his  spere."  Sloane  MS,  1896,  no.  37,  fol.  45.  Death  with  an  hour- 
glass in  the  one  hand,  and  a  spear  in  the  other,  threateneth  all 
estates. 

52  Cf.  Acta  8.  JuUanae  {Belles  Lettres  Juliana),  p.  39. 

53  Robt.  Owen,  Sanctorale  Catholicum,  Lond.,  1880,  p.  142. 


LONGINUS  AND  THE  BALDE  LEGEND        165 

The  theories  of  Frazer  and  Kaiiffmann  make  this 
later  connection  with  Jesus  and  Longinus  all  the  more 
probable.  They  have  shown  that  the  story  of  Baldr  can 
be  explained  by  mythic  rites,  which  have  as  basic  ideas 
the  sacrifice  of  a  god  in  order  to  obtain  renewed  life, 
physical  or  moral,  for  his  people.  With  so  much  in  com- 
mon, it  is  not  difficult  to  see  how  in  the  latest  develop- 
ment of  the  Baldr  story  influence  of  the  Christian  legend 
might  be  suspected.  That  the  Christian  legend  could 
be  the  source  of  the  Baldr  story  in  its  N^orse  form,  it  is 
hardly  possible  to  admit,  both  on  account  of  the  dates 
and  of  such  mythological  resemblances  as  have  been 
pointed  out  by  Frazer  and  Kauffmann.^* 

54  Cf.  Hubert  Mauss,  UAnnee  Sociale,  p.  121  ff.  for  explanation 
of  the  ordinary  interpretation  of  the  myth:  "Le  theme  du  sacrifice 
du  dieu  est  un  motif  dont  I'imagination  mythologique  a  librement 
us6  ...  la  mort  mythique  du  dieu  rappelle  le  sacrifice  rituel; 
elle  est  entouree  par  la  l§gende,  d'ailleurs  obscure,  mal  transmise, 
Incomplete  de  circonstances  qui  permettent  d'en  determiner  la 
veritable  nature  .  .  .  I'episode  des  theomachies  est  I'une  des 
formes  mythologiques  du  sacrifice  du  dieu  .  .  .  I'origine  des 
mythes  de  cette  forme  a  et4  generalement  oubliee;  ils  sont  pre- 
sent's comme  des  combats  meteorologiques  entre  les  dieux  de  la 
lumiere  et  ceux  des  tendbres  ou  de  I'abime."  Cf.  Kauffmann, 
273-4;  Cf.  Mogk,  Paul's  Grundriss.  Ill,  324  ff.,  who  sees  the  kernel 
of  the  myth  of  Baldr  in  the  death  of  the  god  by  the  weapon  In  the 
hands  of  his  enemy,  Hot5r,  and  in  the  avenging  of  his  murder  by 
his  brother.  Baldr  is  the  sun-god,  and  the  myth  is  a  year  myth. 
Loki  naturally  is  the  enemy  of  the  sun.  Later  other  elements 
were  added — the  oath,  the  mistletoe,  which  is  known  in  folk-lore 
as  a  protection  against  sorcery.  It  replaces  the  sword  of  the 
earlier  form. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  A:N^D  THE  GEAIL 

§1.     Survey  of  Testimony 

Tlie  bleeding  lance  in  tlie  Grail  romances  is  specifically 
identified  by  the  writers  after  Crestien  with  the  lance  of 
Longinus.  In  Wauchier's  continuation  of  Crestien's  Per- 
ceval the  lance  which  Gawain  sees  bleeding  into  a  silver 
cup,  is  explained  as  that  with  which  the  Son  of  God  was 
pierced  in  the  side,  and  which  will  bleed  until  doomsday. 
In  Manessier's  continuation,  Perceval  is  told  that  the  lance 
is  that  with  which  Longis  pierced  God's  side  the  day  he 
hung  on  the  cross.  The  Didot-Perceval  likewise  makes 
the  lance  the  crucifixion  relic;  when  Perceval  asks  con- 
cerning the  lance,  he  is  informed  by  his  grandfather  that 
with  this  lance  Longis  pierced  the  side  of  Jesus  Christ. 
In  the  Modena-Perceval,  the  Fisher-King  tells  Perceval 
that  the  lance  is  that  which  Longis  thrust  into  the  side 
of  Christ  on  the  cross.  Again  in  the  Elucidation,  the 
seventh  part  of  the  Grail  story  is  referred  to  as  tlie  one 
which  is  to  tell  of  the  lance  whereA\dth  Longis  pierced 
the  side  of  the  King  of  Holy  Majesty.  In  the  Morte 
D' Arthur,  Balin,  in  his  fight  with  King  Pellam,  makes 
use  of  the  same  spear  that  Longis  used  when  he  smote 
our  Lord  to  the  heart.  The  question  is  raised,  how- 
ever, as  to  whether  this  Christianization  is  late,  and  due 
to  the  confusion  of  a  pagan  symbol  with  the  crucifixion 
relic,  or  whether  to  the  earliest  users  of  the  Grail  legend, 
166 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GKAIL,    167 

Crestien  and  Wolfram,^  the  bleeding  lance  was  tlie  in- 
strument connected  with  Christ's  passion. 

These  earliest  writers  of  the  Grail  romances,  it  is  true, 
leave  us  in  doubt  as  to  their  position  in  the  matter. 
Crestien  does  not,  like  his  continuators,  explicitly  tell  his 
readers  the  origin  of  the  lance.  He  describes  it  as  "une 
blance  lance"  and  adds: 

4376       S'en  ist  une  goute  de  sane 
Del  fer  de  la  lance  el  somet, 
Et,  jusqu'a  la  main  au  varlet 
Couloit  cele  goute  vermelle. 

Wolfram  von  Eschenbach,  who  describes  the  lance  as 
bloody  and  poisonous,  and  as  that  with  which  the  Fisher- 
King  had  been  wounded,  fails  also  to  give  any  account 
of  its  origin. 

To  many  this  failure  on  the  part  of  Crestien  and  Wol- 
fram to  make  definite  statement  as  to  the  origin  of  the 

1  The  present  writer  follows  Golther,  Brown  and  others  in  tak- 
ing Crestien  and  Wolfram  as  the  earliest  known  writers  who  have 
made  literary  use  of  the  Grail  legend.  Miss  Mary  Rh.  Williams 
(Essai  sur  la  composition  du  Roman  Gallois  de  Peredur,  Paris, 
1909)  has  attempted  recently  to  show  that  the  Welsh  poem  is  in- 
dependent of  Crestien  and  that  it  was  probably  in  part  written  in 
the  twelfth  century.  Celtic  scholars,,  however,  have  not  accepted 
Miss  Williams's  conclusions.  Thurneysen,  Zeits.  f.  Celtische 
Philologie,  VIII,  187,  thinks  the  traces  of  earlier  linguistic  forms 
found  in  the  Welsh  MSS  do  not  necessarily  indicate  a  twelfth 
century  original.  These  forms,  he  suggests,  show  rather  the 
usage  of  a  transition  period  where  old  and  new  are  confused — the 
beginning  of  the  thirteenth  century.  Professor  Nitze,  Modern 
Language  Notes,  XXV,  246  ff.,  clearly  is  of  the  opinion  that  Miss 
Williams  has  not  succeeded  in  disproving  Golther's  contention 
that  Peredur  depends  upon  Crestien — the  view  which,  as  Pro- 
fessor Nitze  remarks,  has  since  1890  found  most  frequent  accept- 
ance among  scholars.  Cf.  also  M.  Roques,  Romania,  XXXIX, 
383  f£.;  Golther,  Liter aturhlatt,  1910,  cols.  286-287. 


168  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGIIS^US 

lance  is  no  obstacle  to  belief  in  its  Christian  origin.  The 
general  Christian  coloring  of  the  Grail  Castle  episode  has 
led  Heinzel,  Wechssler,  Staerk,  Burdach,  Golther  and 
others  to  accept  unhesitatingly  the  Grail  lance  as  the 
Christian  relic.  Others,  though  somewhat  less  positive 
in  their  conclusions,  also  contribute  valuable  testimony. 
To  this  class  belongs  Birch-Hirschfeld,  who  says:  "Es 
erschein  uns  im  hochsten  Grade  warhscheinlich,  dass 
Chrestien  mit  jener  Lanze  die  Waffe  Longins  gemeint 
hat,  mit  der  Christi  Seite  durch-stochen  ward."^  Hertz 
derives  the  lance  partly  from  Christian,  partly  from  Cel- 
tic sources.^  Newell  also  admits  the  possibility  of  Chris- 
tian identification:  "The  bleeding  lance  was  understood 
to  be  that  with  which  Christ  was  wounded.  Such  inter- 
pretation would  not  be  inconsistent  with  the  ethical  de- 
sign of  the  poem,  and  would  be  sufficiently  in  accord- 
ance with  mediaeval  conceptions  and  usages.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  does  not  follow  that  the  author  intended 
such  explanation."*  In  opposition  to  these,  Campbell, 
Potvin,  and  Martin,  among  earlier  critics,  have  taken 
the  lance  to  be  a  Celtic  talisman,  and  they  have  been  fol- 
lowed by  other  investigators,  notably  by  N'utt,  and  most 
recently  by  Professor  A.  C.  L.  Brown,  who,  supporting 
his  view  by  new  material,  expresses  his  belief  in  the  Cel- 
tic origin  of  the  bleeding  lance. 

Besides  these  two  more  or  less  generally  followed  the- 
ories, the  Christian  and  the  Celtic,  there  are  several 
others.  Hagen  says  the  bleeding  lance  is  not  Longinus's 
but  a  "Zeichen  der  Kache  und  des  Friedens."^  Wessel- 
ofsky  makes  the  lance  akin  to  the  lance  of  Peleus.     Pel- 

2  Sage  vom  Gral,  p.  273. 

3  Die  Sage  von  Parzival  und  dem  Gralj  p.  23. 

4  The  Legend  of  the  Holy  Orail,  p.  8. 

5  Der  Gral,  p.  82. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GKAIL  169 

linor  was  wounded  and  healed  by  the  lance,  as  Peleus 
was  wounded  by  Cheiron.®  Miss  Weston  thinks  the  lance 
was  originally  "the  dominant  of  the  two  Life  symbols; 
taken  into  the  story  it  w,as  first  to  be  Christianised;  it 
always  precedes  the  Grail."^  In  Professor  Nitze's  some- 
what related  hypothesis  of  the  Grail  mystery  as  a  life- 
cult  resembling  the  Greek  mysteries,  the  lance  is  "the 
weapon  with  which  the  deity's  strength  has  been  impaired. 
It  is  the  instrument  of  sacrifice,  ...  as  a  part  of  the 
ritual  the  lance  is  of  prime  importance,  since  it  impairs 
life  only  in  order  to  sustain  it  elsewhere,  the  process 
being  imitative  or  rather  'sympathetic'  of  what  occurs  in 
]^ature."^  According  to  Professor  Baist — whose  theory 
concerning  the  source  of  the  Grail  legends  is,  as  ]^utt 
puts  it  in  his  review,  one  "which  treats  them  as  happy- 
go-lucky  manifestations  of  free  artistic  fancy"^ — Cres- 
tien  uses  the  lance  to  bring  Gawain  and  Perceval  to- 
gether. Crestien,  according  to  Baist,  did  not  trouble 
about  what  the  Grail  meant.  To  him  there  was  a  well- 
known  motive — ^the  breaking  of  a  spell  by  the  right 
question.  The  second  question  asked  in  the  Grail  Castle, 
that  concerning  the  bleeding  of  the  lance.  Professor  Baist 
thinks  superfluous  to  the  Perceval  legend.^" 

That  the  problem  of  the  origin  of  the  lance  in  the  Grail 
stories  is  far  from  settled  is  made  evident  by  the  fact 
that  the  views  here  enumerated  have  all  either  been  of- 
fered as  new  or  urged  afresh  within  the  past  year. 

6  "Zur  Frage  iiber  die  Heimath  vom  heiligen  Gral,"  Archiv.  i. 
Slav.  Philologie,  XXIIT,  374. 

7  Legend  of  Sir  Perceval,  II,  272. 

8  PMLA,  XXIV,  404,  406. 

9  Academy,  May  7,  1910. 
loparzival  und  der  Gral,  1909,  p.  42. 


170  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 


§2.     Pagan  Color  in  the  Grail  Story 

This  survey  of  the  explanations  offered  as  to  the  origin 
of  the  lance  by  the  Grail  writers  themselves,  and  hj  in- 
vestigators of  the  romances,  shows  an  array  of  authority 
in  favor  of  the  Christian  interpretation.  ISTeverthe- 
less,  the  Christian  explanation  has  seemed  unsatisfactory 
to  many  students  of  the  Grail  problem.  The  objections 
urged  are  generally  much  the  same.  Professor  Nitze 
lays  stress  on  the  fact  that  "the  Grail  romances  as  a 
class  have  a  heterodox  tinge,  which  is  not  superficial." 
This  trait,  he  finds,  is  characteristic  of  even  the  most 
Christian  forms  of  the  story. ^^  Professor  A.  C.  L. 
Brown's  opinion  is  similar:  "On  a  hypothesis  of  Chris- 
tian origin  somebody  must  have  paganized  the  Grail 
story  before  it  reached  Chretien  and  Wolfram,  Some- 
body must  have  taken  the  most  sacred  legend  of  the 
Church  and  adapted  it  to  the  purposes  of  secular  enter- 
tainment."^^ J^utt  held  much  the  same  view.  Comment- 
ing, in  his  review  of  Professor  Brown's  study,  on  the 
passage  just  quoted,  he  says :  "This  Professor  Brown 
cannot  believe ;  hence,  like  myself  he  seeks  for  the  origin 
of  what  is  apparently  non-Christian  in  non-Christian  ro- 
mance and  saga."^^ 

Part  of  this  heterodox  tinge,  to  be  sure,  will  easily  be 
explained  by  the  introduction  of  the  Christian  relic  into 
avowedly  non-Christian  story.  Crestien,  or  whoever 
combined  the  Grail  and  Perceval  legends,   as  Golther^* 

11  Op.  cit.,  p.  371. 

12  P3ILA,  XXV,  11,  12. 

^^  Acadev7y,  May  7,  1910,  p.  445. 

14  Parzival  und  der  Gral,  in  deutscher  Sage  des  Mittelalters  und 
der  Keuzeit  (Walhalla  IV),  1908,  p.  2. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GKAIL    l7l 

and  Burdoch^^  have  botli  suggested,  was  treating  his  sub- 
ject poetically,  not  dogmatically.  His  purpose  was  not 
religious  edification.  If,  as  has  been  suggested,  the  Per- 
ceval story  has  as  its  fundamental  idea  the  instruction 
or  training  of  an  ideal  knight,^^  what  would  be  more 
natural  than  to  comlbine  with  his  education  in  the  ordinary 
chivalric  duties  the  higher  training  Avhich  should  initiate 
him  into  the  greatest  spiritual  mystery  ? 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  impossible  to  assume  that  the 
presence  of  barbaric  coloring  in  any  mediaeval  composi- 
tion marks  it  as  non-Christian.  Much  of  the  Christian 
writing  of  the  Middle  Ages,  to  the  modern  mind,  appears 
almost  unmitigatedly  heathen  in  its  use  of  revolting 
imagery.  This  tendency  to  make  the  description  har- 
rowing by  bloody  detail  especially  characterizes  many  lit- 
erary treatments  of  the  crucifixion,  and  it  may  be  added, 
of  the  sacrament."  If  pagan  color  in  the  accounts  of 
the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail  romances  be  the  chief  ob- 
jection to  its  Christian  origin,  those  upholding  this  view 
should  show  that  the  lance  with  barbaric  properties 
would  be  exceptional  in  Christian  literature.  Manifestly 
such  a  demjonstration  would  be  difficult.  It  should  also  be 
remarked  that  even  when  the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail 
stories  is  taken  in  its  most  barbarous  manifestation,  as  a 
symbol  of  destruction,  it  is  yet  also  a  symbol  of  sacrifice,^^ 
and  therefore  possesses  to  an  extent  mystic  significance. 
Consequently  it  is  easier  to  find  resemblance  between  the 

^5  Literaturzeitung,  XXIV  (1903),  2821. 

16  Cf.  Newell,  op.  cit.,  15. 

17  Cf.  for  example,  the  mediaeval  Sacrament  Plays. 

18  Since  the  above  was  written,  Nutt,  Folk-Lore,  XXI,  112,  and 
Mr.  Nitze,  Mod.  Lang.  Notes,  XXV,  248,  have  both  called  attention 
to  the  double  nature  of  the  function  of  the  lance  in  the  Grail 
stories. 

12 


172  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Grail  lance  and  the  lance  of  Longinus  which  combines 
with  its  destructive  characteristics  others  of  mystic  sanc- 
tity, than  it  is  to  shoAV  relationship  between  the  Grail  lance 
and  the  purely  barbarous  Celtic  weapon  of  revenge.  Nutt 
must  have  felt  something  of  this  difficulty  when,  speak- 
ing of  the  Celtic  talismans,  the  vessel  of  plenty  and  the 
death-dealing  spear,  he  said:  "In  so  far  as  these  objects 
could,  before  their  Christian  transformation,  be  charged 
with  mysterious  and  awe-inspiring  potency,  in  so  far  as 
these  tales  of  magic  strife  could  be  invested  with  tra- 
ditional sanctity,  this  was  the  case."^*^ 

Since  the  pagan  coloring  in  the  description  of  the  bleed- 
ing lance  in  the  Grail  romances  does  not,  therefore,  in 
itself  exclude  connection  with  the  Cracifixion  relic,  the 
real  question  to  be  considered  is,  how  far  other  hypotheses 
serve  to  explain  points  not  accounted  for  on  the  basis  of 
Christian  origin.  Accordingly,  it  will  be  advisable  to 
examine  first  of  all  the  non-Christian  interpretations 
which  have  been  put  forward. 

I.     The  Theory  of  Professor  A.  C.  L.  Brown 

§1.     Celtic  Marvellous  Weapons  and  the  Bleeding 

Lance 

The  most  recent  writer  on  the  subject  of  Grail  origins, 
begins  his  investigation  with  the  bleeding  lance.  Pro- 
fessor Brown  sees  for  the  lance,  at  least  as  it  appears  in  the 
romances  of  Crestien  and  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach,  which 
he  makes  the  earliest  types  of  the  Grail  story,  no  possibility 
of  any  but  a  Celtic  source.  "That  the  lance  of  Longinus 
.   .   .   could  have  given  rise  by  any  conceivable  develop- 

19  Nutt,  The  Legends  of  the  Holy  Grail,  1902,  p.  60. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LOiXGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL 


173 


ment  to  the  bleeding  lance  of  Chretien  and  Wolfram  is 
exceedingly  improbable.  ...  A  popular,  originally  hea- 
then, and  doubtless  Celtic  tale  has  become  partially  Chris- 
tianized and  is  gradually  almost  wholly  ecclesiasticized."'" 

To  narrow  this  claim  of  heathen  origin  to  the  Celtic 
field  is  unfortunate.  Other  heathen  parallels  can  be  ad- 
duced. The  Celtic  feeding  vessel  is  now  recognized  as 
one  manifestation  of  the  wide-spread  folk  vessel  of 
plenty.^^  The  Celtic  magic  weapons  like  the  Celtic  feed- 
ing vessel,  are  not  without  parallel.  There  are  other 
marvellous  heathen  weapons.  The  Celtic  other^vorld  is 
also  a  manifestation  of  a  wide-spread  tradition;  it  finds 
its  counterpart  in  Teutonic  and  Oriental  mythology. 
Professor  Brown  emphasizes  the  similarity  of  the  Grail 
lance  and  the  Grail  castle  to  the  Celtic  heroic  weapons 
and  the  Celtic  otherworld,  however,  without  suggesting 
that  these  Celtic  marvellous  objects  and  places  are  not 
unique,  and  that  such  resemblance  as  exists  may  be  ex- 
tended also  to  non-Celtic  corresponding  objects  and  places. 

Before  considering  these  non-Celtic  heathen  kindred 
weapons, ^^  it  will  be  convenient  to  examine  the  Celtic 
spears  themselves.  Professor  Brown  finds  his  closest 
parallel  to  the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail  story  in  the 
Luin  of  Celtchar,  forged  probably  by  Goibniu  the  smith 
of  the  Tuatha  Da  Danaan,  which  he  makes  identical 
with  the  marvellous  spear  of  King  Cormac,  called  Crimall 
or  "Bloody  Spear,"  and  also  with  "the  venomed  spear 
of  Pezar,  King  of  Persia,  which  Lugh  obtained  in  an- 

20  Op.  cit.,  pp.  12,  13. 

21  Baist,  Parzival  und  der  Gral,  1909,  p.  41,  states  that  it  is 
found  in  Celtic  mythology  as  in  every  other.  Cf.  T.  Sterzenbach, 
Ursprung  u.  Entwicklung  der  Sage  von  lieil.  Gral,  Miinster,  1908, 
p.  7. 

22  Cf.  below  p.  196  for  non-Celtic  otherworld. 


174  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

ticipation  of  the  Second  Battle  of  Mag  Tured,"  the  name 
of  which  was  Slaughterer^  the  blazing  point  of  which 
"had  to  be  kept  in  a  great  caldron  of  water.""^  Professor 
Brown  is  seeking  a  lance  that  is  shining,  poisonous,  de- 
structive, bleeding.  He  fails  to  find  one  that  bleeds,  but 
only  a  venomous  spear  that  must  be  dipped  in  blood  to 
quell  its  fury.  It  may  almost  be  said  that  the  spear  of 
Celtchar  or  Lugh  or  Cormac  is  too  marvellous  to  sug- 
gest relationship  with  the  spear  of  the  Grail  procession, 
the  most  marvellous  property  of  which — its  bleeding — 
the  Celtic  spear,  gory  as  it  is,  fails  to  reproduce.  An- 
other description  of  Lugh's  spear, — Squire's, — gives  it 
still  other  marvellous  qualities:  "He  also  had  a  magic 
spear,  which  unlike  the  rod  sling,  he  had  no  need  to  wield 
himself;  for  it  was  alive,  and  thirsted  so  for  blood  that 
only  by  steeping  its  head  in  a  sleeping  draught  of 
pounded  poppy  leaves  could  it  be  kept  at  rest.  When 
battle  was  near  it  was  dra^vn  out;  then  it  roared,  and 
struggled  against  its  thongs;  fire  flashed  from  it;  and, 
once  slipped  from  the  leash,  it  tore  through  and  through 
the  ranks  of  the  enemy  never  tired  of  slaying.""*  In- 
deed, Professor  Brown  himself  adds  to  his  enumeration 
of  the  magic  characteristics  of  the  Celtic  weapon  many 
which  find  no  counterpart  in  the  Grail  spear:  "Their 
weapons  expanded  like  a  rainbow,  or  had  demons  in 
them,  so  that  they  executed  slaughter  by  themselves  or 
testified  against  those  who  swore  falsely  by  them ;  or  the}- 
could  foretell  a  battle,  or  relate  all  the  former  exploits 
of  the  spear  or  sword.""^ 

Even  if  it  were  granted  that  the  spear  of  the  Grail  ro- 
mances is  heathen,  too  many  weapons  with  equally  super- 

23  Op.  cit.,  p.  23. 

24  Charles  Squire,  Myth,  of  the  Brit.  Isles,  p.  62. 

25  Op.  cit.,  p.  23. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GKAIL,  176 

natural  qualities  exist  elsewhere  to  make  the  Celtic  re- 
lationship inevitable.  Fitzgerald  explains  this  wonderful 
Irish  spear  or  lance  as  the  belt  stars  of  Orion.  Speak- 
ing of  Cuchulainn's  sword  which  "shone  in  the  night  like 
a  candle,"  he  argues  that,  "as  these  objects,  sword,  elbow- 
staff,  belt,  alternate  in  different  versions  of  the  same  tale, 
it  is  fair  to  conclude  that  generally  we  have  to  deal  with 
different  conceptions  of  the  one  thing."  "It  occurs,"  he 
continues  "as  a  sword  or  spear,  with  ISTuada,  Lug,  Cu- 
Chulaind,  Macha,  Oengus,  Cormac.""®  These  Irish 
weapons  Fitzgerald  likens  to  the  marvellous  spear  of 
Zeus,  of  Hermes,  of  Agamemnon,"^  and  other  masters, 
which  the  Chaeroneans  honored  above  all  gods  and  fed 
every  day.  This  use  of  the  spear  as  a  symbol  of  destruc- 
tive power  is  general. ^^  The  Romans  worshipped  a  spear 
as  the  image  of  Mars.  It  moved  of  its  ovni  accord.^' 
"The  Scythians  revered  an  iron  sword  and  offered  annual 
sacrifices  of  sheep  and  horses  to  it."^"  In  Samoa  war- 
clubs  of  renowned  warriors  were  venerated.  Blood- 
stained weapons  were  reverenced  and  it  was  believed  that 
they  brought  success  in  battle.^^  The  cult  of  the  sword 
or  lance  was  knowni  also  among  the  Germans.  The  lance 
of  Tiw  could  slay  of  itself.  It  shone  like  the  sun.^-  An- 
other remarkable  weapon  is  Tig  Altesch,  "I'epee  foudroy- 
ante  des  quarante  Solimans  ou  monarques  universels  de 

26  Revue  Celtique,  V,  199. 

2T  Cf.  also  Roscher,  Lexicon,  who  refers  to  priests  and  food 
offerings  to  the  spear. 

28  R.  p.  Knight,  Symbolical  Language  of  Ancient  Art  and  Myth. 
pp.  95,  114.  Cf.  Pausanias's  Description  of  Greece,  Frazer,  V, 
211. 

29  Roscher,  Lexicon,  s.  v.  Mars. 
so  Pausanias,  V,  211. 

31  J&id.,  V,  211. 

32  Mogk,  Paul's  Grundriss,  III,  317. 


176  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

la  terre  avant  la  creation  d'Adam."^^  In  ancient  Mexico 
blood  was  offered  in  sacrifice  to  "sacred  sticks"  or  staffs 
iised  as  spears.^*  Reference  to  the  Persian  poison  spear  of 
Pisear  is  made  by  Professor  Brown. 

The  qualities,  then,  that  Professor  Brown  finds  in  his 
Celtic  marvellous  weapons  are  wide-spread.  The  cult  of 
the  spear  existed  not  only  in  Ireland,^^  but  everj^vhere 
among  the  ancients.  The  weapons  thus  regarded  with 
superstitious  veneration  are  variously  shining  like  the 
sun,  irresistible  in  battle,  venomous,  bloody.  Reiffen- 
berg  discussing  these  "armes  enchantees  ou  impenetra- 
bles,"  which,  as  he  says,  were  used  so  frequently  by  the 
trouveres,  traces  their  origin  to  several  sources:  Celtic 
sagas,  Scandinavian  invasions  from  the  seventh  to  the 
tenth  centuries,  Greek  and  Roman  influence,  the  relations 
of  Europe  with  the  Orient  before  and  after  the  Crusades, 
chivalry,  and  universal  human  conceptions.^*' 

The  heathen  lances  just  discussed — whether  Celtic  or 
classic — are  wonderful  enough,  too  wonderful  in  fact,  to 
be  used  in  the  Grail  romances  without  much  modifica- 
tion. But  why  should  Crestien,  or  his  source,  go  so'  far 
afield  for  his  lance  of  marvellous  properties?    It  appears 

33  Cf.  Chevalier  au  Cygne,  Reiffenberg,  1846,  I,  pp.  cx-cxiv,  for 
a  long  list  of  marvellous  weapons  with  names  and  without.  Cf.  De 
la  Warr  B.  Easter,  A  Study  of  the  Magic  Elements  in  the  Romans 
cVAventure,  Baltimore,  1906.  Swords  and  spears  are  included  in 
the  table  of  contents  among  objects  with  acquired  magic  proper- 
ties— light,  etc.  Cf.  also  Warton's  Hist,  of  English  Poetry,  I  (ed. 
1871),  p.  43,  for  marvellous  weapons  that  expel  pestilence,  allay 
winds,  bring  fruit,  etc. — the  fabled  dart  of  Procris,  Abaris.  Cf. 
also  an  article  on  Fabled  Spears,  Notes  and  Qtieries,  ser.  2, 
VII,  89. 

31  Pausanias,  V,  211,  212. 

35  D'Arbois  de  Jubainville,  Le  Cycle  Myth.  Irlandais,  p.  188. 

36  Op.  cit.,  p.  Ixxxix. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GRAIL    177 

nmcli  simpler  and  far  more  plausible  that  he  should  take 
a  lance  already  in  his  time  made  a  center  for  the  accre- 
tian  of  wonderful  characteristics.  The  history  of  the 
spear  of  Longinus  from  the  sixth  to  the  fourteenth  cen- 
turies shows  that  it  appropriated  to  itself  miraculous  prop- 
erties both  Christian  and  heathen. ^^  In  doing  so  it  fol- 
lowed the  natural  development  of  stories  of  saints  and 
relics — a  method  too  well  understood  to  demand  illustra- 
tion here.^® 

§2.     The  Shining  Lance  and  the  Spear  of  Longinus. 

That  the  lance  of  Longinus  will  supply  the  marvellous 
qualities  of  the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail  romances  at 
least  as  well  as  Professor  Brown's  Celtic  spear  can  be 
demonstrated,  I  think,  by  the  traits  it  shows  in  mediaeval 
literature  outside  of  the  Grail  tradition  and  unaffected 
by  it.  Postponing  for  the  present  the  consideration  of 
the  Grail  procession  as  a  whole,  I  shall  here  discuss  only 
the  characteristics  of  the  lance,  limiting  myself  tO'  the 

S7  Cf.  above  p.  56  ff. 

38  Cf.  H.  Gunter,  Legenden  Studien,  Koln,  1906.  De  la  Warr 
B.  Easter,  op.  cit.,  p.  32,  in  discussing  church  magic,  calls  atten- 
tion to  its  frequent  appearance  in  the  Romances,  and  states 
that  in  the  Middle  Ages  the  Church  opposed  to  the  diabolic  magic 
of  the  heathen  its  own  celestial  magic;  consequently  relics — exter- 
nal symbols  of  the  Divine,  or  of  saints — came  to  have  independent 
power  of  sanctification.  It  may  be  added  that  when  once  this 
independence  was  obtained  the  relic  would  develop  its  own  story 
independently  of  the  legend  to  which  it  was  originally  attached. 
The  lance  of  Longinus  illustrates  this  fact.  Easter,  p.  39,  gives  an 
extreme  illustration  of-  the  way  marvellous  properties  were  as- 
cribed to  religious  objects.  In  Raoul  de  Cam'brai,  relics  are 
found  trembling  and  jumping  upon  fair  green  cloth  spread  upon 
the  grass: 

4948     Et  les  reliques  fremir  et  sauteler 

De  grant  merveille  li  poist  remembrer. 


1Y8  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

descriptions  which  appear  in  the  earliest  of  the  ro- 
mances— those  for  which  Professor  Brown  offers  Celtic 
parallels  and  interpretations. 

First  to  be  noted  is  the  whiteness  or  shining  appear- 
ance of  the  lance  described  by  Crestien  and  Wauchier. 
Several  passages  in  which  this  characteristic  is  dwelt 
upon  have  already  been  pointed  out  by  Professor  Brown. 
He  refers  to  the  lines  in  Crestien's  account : 

4369     Uns  varies  d'une  cambre  vint. 
Qui  une  hlance  lance  tint. 

6035     For  coi  cele  gote  de  sane 

Saut  par  la  pointe  del  fer  &Zanc.39 

To  these  passages  may  be  added  still  another: 

7749     Et,  de  cele  goute  de  sane 

Que  a  la  pointe  del  fer  blane. 

In  this  characteristic  of  the  Grail  lance  Professor  Brown 
finds  important  evidence  of  its  Celtic  origin.  "The 
whiteness  of  the  lance,"  he  remarks,  "dwelt  on  by 
Chretien  here,  connects  the  object  with  the  fairy  weapons 
of  the  Celts;"**'  and  again,  "The  whiteness  of  the  Bleed- 
ing Lance,  on  which  both  Chretien  and  Wauchier  lay 
stress,  (as  well  as  the  dazzling  brilliancy  of  the  grail)  is, 
therefore,  significant  and  goes  far  by  itself  to  prove  that 
the  talismans  of  the  Grail  Castle  belong  with  the  mar- 
vellous possessions  of  King  Arthur,  and  have  a  like 
origin  in  Celtic  legend."*^ 

39  Op.  cit.,  p.  7.  In  a  foot-note  Professor  Brown  refers  also  to 
Wauchier's  aeeount  of  the  Grail  Castle  as  given  in  the  Montpellier 
MS  and  MS  Bib.  Nat.  12576. 

■io  lUd.,  p.  7,  note  2, 

41 /bid.,  32,  33. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AKD    THE    GKAIL  lYO 

It  is  singular  that  Professor  Brown  takes  this  quality 
of  shining  to  be  so  exclusively  Celtic  that  it  "goes  far  hy 
itself  to  prove"  Celtic  origin,  when  it  is  so  general  an 
accompaniment  of  Christian  story.  It  is  a  common  acces- 
sory in  saints'  legends.  The  angels  who  appear  to  them, 
the  saints  themselves,  their  relics,  all  shine.*"  The  cruci- 
fixion relics,  as  might  be  expected,  possess  this  quality : 

— factum  est  talem  signum  quod  omnes  qui  aderamus  uidimus 
Magna  autem  coruscatio  de  loco  inluxit  ubi  inuenta  est  sea  crux 
clarior  solis  lumine  et  statim  apparuerunt  claui  illi  qui  in  dnico 
conflxi  fuerant  corpore  tamquam  aurum  fulgens  in  terra  Ita  ut 
omnes  sine  dubio  credentes  dicerent  Nunc  cognoscimus  in  quo 
credimus  Duos  accipiens  cum  magno  timore  optulit  uenerabili 
Aelenae.^3 

In  the  tenth  century  sermon  of  ^Ifric  on  the  Exalta- 
tion of  the  Cross,  in  the  account  of  Eraclius's  bearing 
the  cross  back  into  JeriTsalem,  whence  it  had  been  taken 
by  the  heathen,  marvels  occur: 

109     Waes  eac  oj^er  wundor  swa  Jjaet  wynsum  braetS 

Stemde   [of]   >aere  halgan  rode  pa  pa,  heo  hamwerd  waes. 

117     Fala  p\i  scinende  rod  swi]7or  >onne  tungla 

Maere  on  middan-earde  micclum  to  Iufigenne.44 

The  lance,  like  the  cross  and  the  nails,  has  the  quality 
of  shining.  It  will  be  remembered  that  the  account  given 
of  the  lance  in  a  Breviarius  de  Hierosolyma  (dating 
about  530)  describes  it  as  shining  by  night  as  the  sun  by 

42  See  for  full  discussion  and  instances  too  numerous  to  cite 
here,  H.  Gunter,  Legenden  Sttidien,  "Lichtglanz,"  pp.  4,  16,  18,  21, 
29,  31f.,  53,  54,  63,  66f.,  71,  73,  93,  97,  99,  134f.,  155. 

43  Holder,  Inventio  Criccis. 

44  ^Ifric's  Lives  of  the  Saints,  EET8.,  94. 


180  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

day.*^     The  early  date  of  this  reference  to  the  lance  and 
its  marvellous  qualities  makes  it  unusually  interesting. 

The  same  qualities  moreover  are  found  when  the  relics 
are  described  in  the  romances.  In  Rouland  and  Ver- 
nagu^  Constantine  shows  Charlemagne  the  holy  relics: 

101  pemperour  his  wil  dede, 

&  ladde  him  to  J?e  holy  stede, 
J>ere  ]>q  relikes  ware; 
per  com  swiche  a  swete  odour 
pat  neuer  jete  so  swete  sauour. 

Three  hundred  sick  people  were  cured.     Among  other 
relics  there  were: 

111  a  parti  of  >e  holy  crosse 


119  &  a  spere  long  &  smert, 

pat  longys  put  to  godes  hert, 

He  gaf  charls  J^e  king; 

&  a  nail  long  &  gret 

pat  was  y-driue  fiurch  godes  fet 

Wi}?  outen  ani  lesing. 

When  Charles  had  received  these  gifts  he  prayed  God 
for  some  proof  of  their  authenticity,  and — 

pan  decended  a  liitnesse, 
Doun  rijtes  fram  >e  heuen  blis, 
In  J)at  ich  place, 
pat  Jjai  wenden  alle  y-wis, 
pai  hadde  ben  in  parodys, 
So  ful  it  was  of  grace.46 

45  See  above,'  p.  57.  This  passage  in  the  Jerusalem  Breviary  is 
not  unknown  to  Prof.  Brown,  for  he  quotes  it  in  a  foot-note  on 
page  12.  But  he  fails  to  remark  upon  the  similarity  of  this 
shining  lance  of  Longinus  and  the  lance  of  the  Grail.  Indeed,  in 
this  same  footnote  he  denies  that  the  lance  of  Longinus  "had 
any  particular  resemblance  to  the  spear  of  the  Grail  Castle." 

46EET8.,  e.  s.,  39,  40. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL,  181 

Supernatural  liglit,  then,  as  an  accessory  of  the  Grail 
lance,  far  from  making  Christian  origin  impossible, 
greatly  strengthens  such  probability.  The  description  of 
the  lance  of  Longinus — et  lucet  in  node,  sicut  sol  in  vir- 
tute  diet — recalls  definitely  the  light  accompanying  the 
Grail  procession: 

4404  Une  si  grans  clartes  i  vint 

Que  si  pierdirent  les  candoiles 
Lor  clarte,  com  font  les  estoiles 
Quant  li  solaus  lieve  ou  la  lune. 

§3.     The  Bleeding  Lance  and  the  Spear  of  Longinus 

How  does  the  case  stand  as  to  the  bleeding  lance? 
Following  again  Crestien,  Wauchier,  and  Wolfram,  as 
the  earliest  versions,  we  find  in  Crestien: 

4376  S'en  ist  une  goute  de  sane 

Del  fer  de  la  lance  el  somet 
Et  jusqu'a  la  main  au  varlet 
Couloit  cele  goute  vermelle. 

and  again: 

7539  ...  la  lance  dont  li  fers 

Sainne  tos  jors,  ja  n'ert  si  ters 
Del  sane  tout  cler  qui  ele  pleure. 
Si  est  escrit  qu'il  est  une  eure 
Que  tous  li  roiaumes  de  Logres 
Dont  jadis  fu  li  tiere  al  Ogres 
Ert  detruite  par  cele  lance. 

7746  Sire,  cies  le  roi  Pesceour 

Fui  une  fois  et  vi  la  lance  * 

Dont  li  fiers  saine  sans  doutance. 

To  one  who  knows  the  story  of  Longinus,  the  first  of 
these  citations  sounds  strikingly  familiar.  In  almost 
every  account  of  the  spear-thrust,  the  blood  runs  down 
to  the  hand  of  the  spearman.     Of  course,  in  the  legend 


182  THE    LEGE]!fD    OF    LO]:^GINUS 

the  miraculous  healing  of  the  blindness  of  Longinus  fol- 
lows.    Here  only  the  blood  on  the  lance  is  given. 

In  Wauchier's  continuation  the  Grail  lance  is  expressly 
identified  as  the  relic  of  the  Crucifixion : 

20259  C'est  la  lance  demainement 

Dont  li  fius  diu  fu  volrement 
Ferus  tres  parmi  le  coste. 

These  lines,  however,  Professor  Brown  regards  merely  as 
a  gloss  added  by  Wauchier  himself,  who  "allowed  whole 
sections  of  his  source,  which  must  have  been  nearly  or  quite 
pagan,  to  remain  unaltered,  side  by  side  with  his  later 
Christian  explanations."*^  On  the  other  hand,  the  de- 
scription of  the  lance  in  Wauchier's  narrative  he  finds  to 
be  "more  barbaric  than  Chretien's."  The  feature  which 
Professor  BroA^Ti  has  here  in  mind  seems  to  be  the  ex- 
cessive bloodiness  of  the  description : 

20151  Et  puis  si  vit,  en.  I.  hanstier, 

Une  lance  forment  sainier 
Dedens  une  cope  d'argent. 
En  eel  vassiel  fu  droitment, 
Toute  fu  sanglente  environ, 
Li  sans  couroit  a  grand  randon 
Del  fier  jusques  a  I'arestuel; 
Par  foi,  mentir  ne  vos  en  voel. 
En  eel  vassiel  d'argent  caoit, 
Par.  I.  tuiel  d'or  en  issoit 
Puis  ceurt  parmi.  I.  calemel 
D'argent,  ja  mais  ne  verez  tel, 
De  la  mervelle  s'esbahit 

Without  stoj^ping  to  discuss  the  fact  that  the  blood  is 
here  carried  by  a  tube, — the  consideration  of  which  will 
come  later, — we  note  only  that  in  Wauchier  the  bleeding 
is  more  emphasized  than  in  Crestien,  and  that  the  lance 
is  Christian. 

47  Op.  cit.,  p.  14. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL  183 

Wolfram's  account  adds  little.  The  spear  is  not  bleed- 
ing, but  bloody.  The  pluotec  sper  is  mentioned  at  1.21, 
p.  807,  and  again  at  1.30  f.,  p.  489 : 

Daz  sper  muos  in  die  wunden  sin: 
Da  half  ein  not  fiir  d'andern  not: 
Da  wart  daz  sper  bluotec  rdt. 

iN^one  of  the  properties  of  the  lance  of  the  Grail  Cas- 
tle, according  to-  Professor  Brown,  "not  even  bleeding, 
are  matched  by  the  lance  of  Longinus."*®  He  adds,  curi- 
ously, that,  "some  of  the  later  Grail  romances,  indeed,  by 
explaining  that  the  lance  of  Longinus  bled  no  more  after 
the  time  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  indicate  that  bleeding 
was  not  in  accordance  with  the  tradition  generally  cur- 
rent concerning  the  relic  of  the  crucifixion."  This,  on 
the  contrary,  seems  to  me  clearly  to  imply  that  bleeding 
had  been  connected  with  the  Christian  lance.  It  is  not 
surprising  that  this  should  be  the  case.  Miraculous 
bleeding  connected  with  the  crucifixion  is  an  early  Chris- 
tian conception,  like  the  quality  of  shining  in  which  Pro- 
fessor Brown  finds  only  heathen  reminder.  The  bleed- 
ing, however,  unlike  the  shining,  is  used  in  two  appar- 
ently contrary  ways :  it  represents  on  the  one  hand  de- 
struction and  judgment  and  is  made  a  symbol  of  terror; 
on  the  other,  it  betokens  new  life,  since  the  Church  comes 
from  the  wound  in  the  side  of  Christ,*®  and  since  the 
blood,  the  life  of  Christ,  becomes  the  regenerating  food 
of  men. 

The  first  of  these  symbolical  uses  is  the  one  emphasized 
by  Professor  Bro^vn.    In  the  bleeding  lance  he  sees  merely 

48  Op.  cit.,  17. 

49  See  above,  pp.  11,  12. 


184:  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

an  "extravagantly  destructive"  venomous  implement.^'' 
And  these  qualities  he  conceives  to  be  "altogether  antago- 
nistic to  the  Longinus  legend,  but  in  conformity  with  pa- 
gan story."  Accordingly  he  turns  for  the  source  of  the 
bleeding  lance  to  Celtic  literature.  In  Welsh  and  Irish 
mythology  he  finds,  it  is  true,  the  Luin  of  Celtchar=the 
Slaughterer  of  Lugh=the  Crimall  (Bloody  Spear  of 
Cormac,  a  destructive,  venomous,  flaming  spear,  which 
must  be  dipped  in  blood  to  quench  its  fury)  .^^ 

Professor  Brown's  chief  objection  to  the  lance  of  Lon- 
ginus is,  that  it  lacks  the  property  of  bleeding  which 
usually  belongs  to  the  Grail  lance:  "]^o  pseudo-gospel 
or  legend  of  the  time  before  Chretien  mentions  bleeding 
among  the  miraculous  attributes  of  the  Christian 
lance."^"  This  objection,  however,  applies  equally  to 
the  Celtic  spears  brought  forward  by  Professor  Brown. 
The  Luin  of  Celtchar  is  "held  point  downward  over  a 
caldron  of  blood  into  which  it  is  ever  and  anon  plunged — 
a  circumstance  that  might  develop  into  the  idea  of  a 
lance  bleeding  into  a  vessel."^^  "It  seems  to  be  identi- 
cal with  the  marvellous  spear  of  King  Cormac,  which  was 
called  the  Crimall  or  'Bloody  Spear.'  Perhaps  therefore 
bleeding  was  in  Irish  tradition  an  attribute  of  the  Luin. 
The  ancient  Irish  indeed  attributed  almost  every  kind  of 
miraculous    and   extraordinary   property  to   their   lances 

50  Unlike  Nutt,  it  is  to  be  noted,  who  works  also  on  the  Celtic 
hypothesis.  Cf.  also  Folk-Lore,  XXI,  112;  and  Nitze,  Mod.  Lang. 
Notes,  XXV,  248. 

51  Here  the  dipping  in  blood  may  be  the  Irish  way  of  stating 
that  blood  sacrifices  were  made  to  the  weapons  of  heroes.  Fitz- 
gerald, it  will  be  remembered,  compared  the  Irish  spears  with  the 
weapons,  famous  in  cult,  of  Agememnon  and  Mars,  to  which  such 
offerings  were  made. 

52  Op.  cit.,  p.  17. 

53  J&id.,  pp.  17,  18. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GRAIL    185 

and  swords,  [except — we  may  add  on  Professor  Brown's 
own  admission — that  of  bleeding]."'*  Finally,  Profes- 
sor Brown  even  proceeds  to  suggest  reasons  why  the 
Irish  spears  did  not  bleed:  ''If  bleeding  were  not  often 
made  prominent  by  the  ancient  Irish  among  the  prop- 
erties of  their  weapons,  this  may  well  have  been  because 
they  were  chiefly  interested  in  other  more  exaggerated 
and  more  marvellous  qualities.  Had  bleeding  been  made 
the  main  attribute  of  a  lance  in  ancient  Irish,  we  may 
be  sure  that  it  would  have  bled,  like  the  lance  of  Wauch- 
ier,  in  so  exaggerated  a  way  that  spout  and  conduit  would 
be  needed  to  carry  off  the  blood."^^  This,  it  may  be 
granted,  is  what  one  would  expect  to  find  if  bleeding 
lances  had  been  known  to  Irish  tradition.  The  fact, 
therefore,  that  Professor  Brown  is  unable  to  discover  in 
ancient  Welsh  or  Irish  literature  a  single  well  attested 
instance  of  a  lance  which  bleeds  becomes  the  more  sig- 
nificant. 

To  return  now  to  the  lance  of  Christian  tradition,  it 
will  be  remembered  that  in  the  legend  it  is  usually  repre- 
sented streaming  with  blood.  Indeed,  so  general  is  this 
representation  of  it  in  mediaeval  literature,  quite  outside 
Grail  influence,  that  it  would  be  entirely  natural  for  it 
to  be  called  a  bloody  spear.  The  property  certainly  seems 
much  more  to  belong  to  the  lance  of  Longinus  than  to 
the  Luin  of  Celtchar  dipped  in  a  caldron  of  blood. 

The  following  quotations  are  all  directly  connected 
with  the  legend  of  Longinus  even  when  his  name  does 
not  appear  in  the  lines: 

Et  de  la  lance  vos  feri  el  coste 

Le  sane  et  I'eve  I'eu  a  as  poinz  cole 

Guillaume  D'Orange,  vv.  767,  768. 

54  Ihid.,  p.  23.    The  italics  are  mine. 

55  Ihid.,  p.  24. 


186  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Et  li  sans  et  li  aigue,  si  com  je  I'ai  apris 
Li  coula  jusqu'aus  puins — La  Chanson  D'Antioche,5Q 
vv.  325,  326. 

Et  Longis  vous  feri  de  la  lance  a  bandon 

Li  sans  li  vint  par  I'anste  jusqu'aus  poins,  de  randon 

Ibid.,  vv.  687,  689. 

Le  sang  et  I'eve  en  fist  ruceler; 
Aval  la  lance  commenza  devaler, 
Jusqu'a  ses  poigns  ne  se  voulat  arester 

Roman  d'Aguin,o^  11.  195  ff. 

Longins  li  grans  le  feri  a  bandon; 
Son  blanc  coste  li  parcha  contremont, 
Et  sane  et  eve  en  issi  de  randon 
Dus  qu'a  ses  poins  n'i  fist  arestison. 

Le  Chevalerie  Ogier,58  n.  248  ff. 

With  lines  250-1  above,  compare  the  "barbaric"  descrip- 
tion found  in  Wauchier,  11.  20156-7: 

Li  sans  couroit  a  grand  randon 
Del  fier  jusques  a  I'aresteul. 

Also  compare  "jusque  a  ses  poigns''  in  the  above  with 
Crestien,  1.  4378 :  "Et  jusqua  la  main  au  varlet/' 

When  to  the  above  we  add  a  passage  describing  the 
wounding  of  Christ  in  the  Roman  de  la  Violette — 
which,  it  is  to  be  remembered,  is  by  Gerbert — 11.  5292  ff. : 

Desci  au  cuer,  que  li  clers  sans 
Fu  aval  la  lanche  coulans 
Dusc'd  ses  mains — 

it  looks  almost  as  if  there  were  a  more  or  less  stereotyped 
description  of  the  blood  running  down  the  lance  to  the 

56  The  beginning  of  the  twelfth  century. 

57  Twelfth  century;  of.  Grober,  Grundriss,  p.  542. 

58  Twelfth  century;  cf.  Grober,  Grundriss,  p.  546. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GRAIL    187 

hands  of  Longinus.  It  might  ahnost  be  conjectured  that 
the  Grail  writer  knew  and  used  this  stereotyped  form. 
That  the  passage  should  be  so  nearly  reproduced  in  the 
description  of  the  Grail  lance  is  assuredly  a  remarkable 
coincidence  if  it  is  nothing  more.  At  all  events  the  simi- 
larity between  the  lance  of  Longinus  and  the  Grail  lance 
if.  here  much  closer  than  any  yet  pointed  out  between  the 
Grail  spear  and  the  Luin  of  Celtchar. 

The  lance,  it  is  seen,  is  in  literature  generally  bloody. 
Professor  Golther  believes  that  Crestien  in  making  the 
lance  bleed  took  this  trait  over  from  other  bleeding  relics. 
Crestien,  though  using  the  sacred  objects  commonly  em- 
ployed in  the  Greek  mass — candles,  chalice,  paten,  lance, 
and  other  relics, — according  to  Golther,  disposed  them 
differently.  He  showed  the  blood  of  Christ  dripping 
from  the  spear,^"  used  the  Grail  (usually  the  chalice,  the 
holder  of  blood)  for  the  host,  and  so  found  the  paten 
(usually  the  bread  plate),  superfluous.  The  implication 
is  of  course  that  Crestien  thought  the  blood  of  Christ, 
seen   on  the  very   instrument  with  which   it  was   shed, 

59  Professor  Golther's  conjecture  that  Crestien  made  the  lance 
take  the  place  of  the  chalice  or  grail  as  bearer  of  the  blood  in  the 
Grail  procession  finds  support  in  the  Dispute  Between  Mary  and 
the  Cross  {EETS.,  46,  136-137)  where  the  cross  itself  is  spoken 
of  as  a  platter  hearing  sacrificial  food.  That  the  eucharist  is 
meant  is  made  evident  by  the  reference  in  the  next  stanza  to  the 
eating  of  the  flesh  in  "godes  hous."     The  Cross  speaks:  — 

1.166  "I  bar  flesch  for  folkes  feste; 
Ihesu  Christ  vre  saueour 
He  tedep  hope  lest  and  meste, 
Rested  ajeyn  pe  sonne. 
On  me  lay  pe  lomb  of  loue 
I  was  plater  his  bodi  a-boue, 
Til  feet  and  hondes  al-to  cloue, 
Wip  blood  I  was  bi-ronne." 

13 


188  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

would  be  a  more  potent  reminder  than  the  farther  re- 
moved, less  directly  connected,  blood  in  the  Grail  or 
chalice. 

Golther's  suggestion  is  both  illuminating  and  adequate, 
whether  taken  aesthetically  or  dogmatically.  Such  a 
transfer  of  the  property  of  bleeding  from  cross  to  spear 
would  not  be  difficult.  The  fortunes  of  the  cross  and 
the  spear  are  more  or  less  bound  up  together  in  mediaeval 
literature;*'"  and  if  the  lance  does  not  bleed,  it  is  suffi- 
ciently bloody  to  make  a  transfer  of  this  kind  from  one 
passion  relic  to  another  easy. 

Bleeding  was  associated  with  the  cross  from  early 
times.     JN^ote  this  passage  from  the  Christ: 

1084        Usses  Dryhtnes  rod  onsweard  stondetS, 
beacna  beorhtast,  blode  bistemed 
Heofoncyninges,  hlutran  dreore 
biseon   mid   swate,   }?aet  ofer  side  gesceaft 
Scire  scineS. 

Professor  Cook  in  commenting  on  this  passage  says :  "the 
cross  towers  like  the  mythic  Ygdrasil  dripping  with 
blood,  but  flooding  the  whole  world  with  a  blaze  like  sun- 
light."" The  lines  from  the  Christ  Professor  Cook  com- 
pares with  the  Dream  of  the  Rood,  1.48 :  "Eall  ic  waes 
mid  blode  bestemed,  /  begoten  of  I'aes  Gimian  sidan.'" 
"This  conception,"  he  remarks,  "of  the  blood-stained 
cross  is  at  least  as  early  as  Paulinus  of  ]!^ola,  who  writes 
{Epist.  32,  cap.  14) : 

Ardua  floriferae  crux  cingitur  orbe  coronae, 
Et  Domini  fuso  tincta  cruore  rubet. 

60  Cf.  various  Complaints  of  Mary,  Meditations  on  the  Hours, 
etc. 

61  Christ  of  Cynewulf,  p.  xliv. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GRAIL    189 

And  again  (cap.  17)  : 

Inter  floriferi  Coeleste  nemus  Paradisi. 

Sub  cruce  sanguinea  niveo  stat  Christus  in  agris."6i 

Among  other  marvels  that  accompanied  the  discovery 
of  the  tnie  cross  by  Saint  Helena, — 

Hit  was  talde  of  mani  man 

At  a  licour  J^er-of  ranne, 

pat  wi]7  betinge  was  bote  of  bale, 

And  sekenes  diuers  to  make  ham  hale 

A  vessel  Ipat  hit  ware  noit  tint, 

Stode  vnder  •  pat  licour  for  to  hint, 

for  to  dele  vn-to  l?e  vnfere, 

to  sende  ouer  al  ]>e  cuntree  sere.62 

§4.     The  Poisonotjs  and  Destructive  Lance  and  the 
Spear  of  Longinus 

Poisonous  and  destructive  properties  have  also  been 
associated,  at  least  occasionally,  with  the  spear  of  the  cru- 
cifixion. DegTiilleville  in  his  Pelerinage  de  Vie  Humaine 
represents  Envy  with  two  spears  coming  from  her  eyes. 
One  of  them  is  the  spear  of  Longinus,  which  is  described 
as  follows : 

ei/ftid.,  p.  193. 

62  Cursor  Mundi,  11.  21618-21626;  also  printed  by  Morris  from 
Fairfax  MS.  14,  EETS.,  46,  115.  Significant  is  the  bleeding  of 
the  tree  from  which  Adam  and  Eve  ate  the  apple,  identified 
with  the  cross  of  the  crucifixion  (cf.  EETS.,  46,  introd.  by 
Morris).  It  bleeds  when  approached  by  the  sinful  (Horstmann, 
Altenglische  Legenden,  Heilbronn,  1881,  p.  378): 

When  any  synfull  come  here-ine. 
As  )?ou  seyst,  shyld,  with  me, 
For  vengawnce  of  ]7at  cursyd  synne 
The  blode  rynneth  oute  of  J^is  tre. 


190  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

8307  De  I'autre  ot  li  roi  Jhesu 

Le  coste  percie  et  fendu 
Plus  mal  li  fist  le  moquement 
Que  les  Jui's  de  son  tourment 
Avoient  que  le  fer  ne  fist 
Que  Longis  u  coste  li  mist 
Ces  glaives  sont  enracinez 
En  mon  cuer  parfont  et  plantez, 
Mes  par  mes  iex  ont  (leur)  issue 
Pour  (moi)  faire  beste  cornue. 
Pour  moi  faire  venin  getter 
Par  les  iex  pour  envenimer 
Mes  voisins  par  un  suel  regart 
Sans  laissier  disme  ne  champart.63 

The  sj^ear  is  mJade  venomous,  though  expressly  identified 
as  the  crucifixion  relic.  The  connection,  it  is  true,  is  made 
in  a  symbolic  way,  and  Deguilleville  was  perhaps  some- 
what influenced  by  Grail  imagery.®*  The  significant  point 
lies  in  the  fact  that  Deguilleville  did  not  feel  such  quali- 
ties as  those  here  mentioned  to  be  antagonistic  to  his  defi- 
nitely Christian  purpose,  nor  did  Lydgate,  who  followed 
him.  ISTot  less  interesting  is  the  confusion  of  the  flaming 
sword  of  the  cherubim  with  the  crucifixion  relic, — due 
entirely  in  this  instance  to  Lydgate : 

472  Whos  swerd  was  bloudyd  with  the  blood 

Off  Crystys  holy  passyon 
When  he  made  our  Redempcion, 
Mankynd  to  restore  a-gayn. 
The  wych  wey,  whan  I  hadde  seyn, 
I  was  a-stonyd  i  my  syht. 
But  I  was  coumfortyd  a-noon  Ryht, 
Whan  I  sawh  the  swerd  mad  blont 

63  Le  Pelerinage  de  Vie  Humaine.  Roxburghe  Club,  1893;  cf. 
Lydgate's  translation  of  this  passage,  Pilgrimage  of  the  Life  of 
Man,  EET8.,  pp.  402-3. 

64  The  present  writer  hopes  soon  to  publish  the  results  of  an 
inquiry  into  the  possible  influence  of  the  Grail  legend  on  the 
Pelerinage  de  Tie  Huviaine. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL  191 

Off  cherubin,  the  wych  was  wont. 
To  brenne  as  any  flawmbe  bryht. 
But  now,  the  sharpnesse  &  the  lyht 
Was  queynte,  to  do  no  more  vengaunce, 
By  vertu  off  Crystys  gret  suffraunce.65 

For  the  present  purpose  this  confusion  makes  no  differ- 
ence. It  has  been  said  that  the  sacred  spear  acquired 
the  marvellous  qualities  of  other  weapons.  The  result 
of  the  fusion  in  this  case  is  to  bring  together  several  of 
the  properties  Professor  Brown  is  seeking  for  the  Grail 
lance.  This  Christian  weapon  here  used  as  a  reminder  of 
the  crucifixion,  is  bloody,  flaming,  and  unquestionably  an 
instrument  of  vengeance. 

Though  Deguilleville  and  Lydgate  are  too  late  to  be  of 
value  in  the  matter  of  Grail  origins,  these  citations  never- 
theless indicate  that  poisonous  and  destructive  properties 
are  not  necessarily  incompatible  with  the  spear  of  Lon- 
ginus. 


§5.     The  Christian  Spear  a  Symbol  of  Destruction 
AND  OF  Peace 

As  already  remarked.  Professor  Brown,  in  the  opinion 
of  the  present  writer,  emphasizes  too  exclusively  the  de- 
structive significance  of  the  lance  in  the  Grail  procession. 
It  has  also  another  meaning — it  is  the  symbol  of  peace 
and  new  life.  Indeed,  Professor  Brown  mainly  depends 
for  evidence  of  the  destructive  powers  of  the  lance  upon 
a  passage  in  the  Mens  MS^  which  states  that  a  blow  from 
the  lance  will  destroy  the  land  of  Logres.  This  unsup- 
ported  passage,   however,    hardly   seems   sufficient,    espe- 

^5  Pilgrimage  of  the  Life  of  Man.  Englisht  by  Jno.  Lydgate, 
EET8.,  e.  s.,  77,  13;  cf.  11.  63  ff. 


192  THE    LEGE^"D    OF    LOXGINUS 

ciallj  since  the  Montpellier  MS  reading  for  the  same  pas- 
sage is  exactly  the  opposite : 

7358     Et  messire  Gauwains  s'en  alle 
Querre  la  lance  dont  li  fers 
Sainne  tos  jors,  ja  n'ert  si  ters 
Del  sane  tout  cler  que  ele  pleure 
[Montpellier]     Einsi  est  escrit  en  I'ameare 
La  pes  sera  par  ceste  lance. 

Clearly  here  is  a  choice  of  properties  which  may  well 
argue  the  existence  of  two  traditions.  If  the  lance  re- 
ferred to  is  the  Christian  relic,  the  two  characteristics 
do  exist  side  by  side.'^®  A  bit  of  Christian  writing, 
likewise  interesting  on  another  account,  illustrates  the 
belief  in  the  double  nature  of  the  crucifixion  spear.  In 
a  fourteenth  century  Meditacion  of  ]>e  fyue  woundes,  it 
is  said  of  the  wound  in  the  side: 

Out  of  >e  largeste  and  deppeste  welle  of  euere-lastyng  lif  in 
Jie  moste  opene  wounde  in  Christys  blessed  syde,  cleech  vp  depp- 
est  and  hertyliest  watir  of  joye  and  blisse  withouten  eende,  bihold- 
yng  Jjeere  inwardly  how  Crist  Iftesu  god  and  man,  to  bringe  J)ee  to 
euerlastynge  lyf,  suffrede  J^at  harde  and  hydous  deeth  on  })e  cros 
and  suffrede  his  syde  to  be  opened  and  hym-self  to  be  stonegyn  to 
])e  herte  with  ]7at  grisly  spere,  and  so  with  t>at  deelful  strook  of  ])e 
spere  Jjeere  gulchide  out  of  Cristys  syde  )?at  blysful  floode  of 
watir  and  blood  to  raunsone  vs,  water  of  his  syde  to  wasshe  vs, 
and  blood  of  his  herte  to  bugge  vs.  For  loue  of  J^ise  blessede 
woundes  creep  in  to  J>is  hoot  baa>  of  Crystys  herte-blood,  and 
J^eer  bathe  pee;  ffor  peer  was  neuer  synne  of  man  ne  of  womman 
Jjouit   ne   wroujt  ^at  was  laft  with   louely   sorrowe   and  hertly 

66  L.  E.  Iselin,  whose  study,  Der  morgenlandische  Ursprung  der 
Grallegende,  1909,  I  have  been  able  to  examine  only  since  the 
completion  of  my  own  work,  confirms  this  view.  Cf.  pp.  115-116. 
"Es  bestand  also,  wie  wir  sehen,  in  der  Poesie  wie  in  der  Le- 
genden-literatur  eine  mystische  Redeweise,  dass  dieselbe  Lanze 
totet  und  Leben  gibt,  verwundet  und  Heil  bringt,  dass  eine  Lanze 
des  Paradies  verschliesst  und  eine  Lanze  das  Paradies  ofEnet." 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL  193 

repentaunce,  J^at  J?eer  ne  ys  in  }Jis  welle  fully  remyssion  to  buggen 
it,  and  watir  of  lyf  fully  to  clensen  it  and  wasshen  it.67 

Professor  BroAvn  devotes  half  of  his  study  to  the  story 
of  Balin  and  the  Dolorous  Stroke,  which  he  believes  ex- 
plains the  cause  of  the  wound  in  the  thighs  of  the  Grail 
King.®*  Professor  Golther  takes  the  Grail  King  to  be 
Christ  himself  wounded  in  the  side  by  the  spear-thrust 
of  Longinus.  Discussion  of  this  point  will  come  later. 
Suffice  it  to  note  that  an  account  quite  unrelated  to  the 
Grail  story  makes  the  spear  grisly,  and  the  spear-thrust 
that  deprived  Christ  of  life  a  deelful  strook.  It  shows, 
too,  how  to  the  mystic  mediaeval  mind  the  deed  could  be 
at  once  both  wicked  and  blessed,  destructive  and  regen- 
erative. 

§6.     The  Bleeding  Lance  in  Art  and  in  the  Drama 

It  is  clear,  then,  that  more  can  be  accounted  for  by 
Christian  tradition  than  Professor  Brown  has  recog- 
nized. In  connection  with  the  question  of  the  source  of 
the  bleeding  spear  used  by  the  writers  of  the  Grail  ro- 
mlances,  it  will  be  well  to  recall  the  importance  of  the 
spear  of  the  crucifixion  in  art.  It  was  shown  every- 
where— in  manuscripts,  on  crosses,  in  churches,  with  the 
blood  gushing  from  its  point  and  running  down  its  shaft. 
Many  of  these  illustrations  were  so  early  that  they  must 
have  been  familiar  to  Crestien  and  his  predecessors. 

Another  possible  influence  may  also  be  noted.  As  early 
as  the  twelfth  century  Longinus  was  seen  on  the  stage 

67  Printed  by  Horstmann  among  works  wrongly  attributed  to 
E.  Rolle,  from  MS  Univ.  Coll.  97,  R.  Rolle,  II,  441. 

68  This  part  of  Prof.  Brown's  study  can  not  be  considered  here. 
Nutt  (Acad.  May  7,  1910,  440)  was  not  convinced  that  he  had 
made  his  point. 


194  THE  legejS'd  of  longinus 

in  the  religious  drama.  According  to  the  stage  direc- 
tions, and  the  texts  of  these  early  plays,  the  lance  must 
have  been  shown  as  bleeding.  Notice  the  stage  directions 
in  the  twelfth  century  Anglo-l^orman  play  of  the  Resur- 
rection du  Sauveur:  "II  prist  la  lance;  ci  I'feri  al  quer, 
dunt  sane  e  ewe  en  issi.  Si  li  est  as  mainz  avale."*'®  Com- 
pare with  this  the  account  in  La  Passione  e  Risurrezione : 

Et  un  de  li  cavaleri  longi  ke  fo  horn  de  gran  statura 
Lo  lao  de  Cristo  fora  cum  la  langa  forta  e  agua 
Undo  g  ensi  aigua  e  sango  per  figura,  etcJO 

Similar  is  the  stage  direction  in  the  Saint  GaJIer  Pas- 
sionsspiel:  "Cum  fixerit  eum  et  sanguis  lancea  descend- 
ens  tangat  oculos,  videbit  et  dicat."^^  The  same  direction 
is  found  in  the  Ancient  Cornish  Passion:  "Tunc  fluat 
sanguis  super  lancea  usque  ad  manus  longii  militis  et 
tunc  tergit  oculos  et  uidebit  et  dicit."'"  It  is  hardly 
necessary  to  cite  other  instances.  The  stage  directions 
are  explicit  and  clearly  indicate  that,  by  some  contriv- 
ance, blood  streamed  down  the  lance.  It  is  to  be  re- 
marked that  Crestien  and  his  contemporaries  probably 
saw  these  plays  produced,  and  beheld  the  lance  bleeding 
realistically  before  their  eyes.  With  the  Christian  lance 
so  obviously  and  suitably  at  hand,  in  literature  which 
as  writers  of  romances  themselves  they  must  have  known, 
in  art  productions  which  they  must  have  seen,  and  in  the 
drama  with  which  they  must  have  been  familiar,  why 
should  the  G-rail  romancers  seek  a  bleeding  lance  in  the 
Luin  of  Celtchar,  which  after  all  does  not  bleed  ? 

Representing  as  they  do  the  most  extreme  position  of 
Celtic  interpreters   of  the   Grail  problem,   the  views   of 

69  Monmerque  et  Michel,  Theatre  Frangais  au  Moyen  Age.  14. 

70  Thirteenth  century,  Studj.  di  Filologia,  I,  260. 
Ti  Mone,  Schatispiele  des  Mittelalters,  I,  121. 

72  Cf.  above,  p.  138. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GEAIL    195 

Professor  Brown  have  been  thus  fully  dealt  with  in  order 
to  show  that  even  demands  which  recognize  in  the  Grail 
spear  none  but  apparently  heathen  qualities  may  be  met 
by  Christian  explanation.^^ 

II.     The  Theories  of  Professor  Nitze  and  Miss  Weston 
§1.     Pkofessok  ISTitze  and  the  Celtic  Theory 

Professor  Nitze  explains  the  Grail  rite  on  the  basis 
of  agrarian  cult  and  illustrates  by  the  Eleusinian  mys- 
teries.^* He  still  clings,  however,  with  one  hand  to  Cel- 
tic origin  for  the  Grail  legend  and  wherever  it  is  possible 
adduces  Celtic  parallels — his  general  theory  being  that 
such  agrarian  ritual  customs  were  wide-spread  and  that 
the  Grail  story  may  very  probably  be  the  result  of  Cel- 
tic use  of  these  conceptions.  Indeed,  so  ready  is  Profes- 
sor Nitze  to  support  the  idea  of  Celtic  mediation  that  in 
some  cases  where  the  Oriental  usage,  which  he  is  here 
generally  emphasizing,  explains  the  matter  he  is  discuss- 
ing, he  forsakes  it  for  the  less  definitely  related  Celtic 
illustration.  For  example,  though  in  his  discussion  of 
the  Fisher-King  and  his  "double"  he  makes  use  of  Osiris 
and  Adonis,  in  his  reference  to  the  shape-shifting  of  the 
Fisher-King,  he  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  this  re- 

73  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  discuss  in  detail  the  opinion 
of  Hagen,  who  makes  the  Grail  lance  a  symbol  of  vengeance  and 
of  peace,  nor  that  of  Wesselofsky,  to  whom  it  is  a  spear  that 
wounds  and  heals,  for  the  reason  that  neither  of  these  views  is 
opposed  to  the  Christian  spear,  which,  as  has  been  shown  in  the 
preceding  discussion,  combines  these  antagonistic  qualities.  L. 
von  Schroeder's  study,  Wurzeln  der  Gralsage,  Vienna  Sitzungs- 
hericJite,  1910,  was  called  to  my  attention  too  late  to  be  consid- 
ered. 

74  Miss  Weston  first  definitely  considered  such  relationship. 
Folk-Lore,  XVIII,    (1907),  283-305. 


196  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

spect  the  Fisher-King  is  like  Manannan  mac  Lir,  the  great 
shape-shifter  of  the  Irish."  The  Irish  hero,  an  otherworld 
being,  also  "supplies  ale  which  preserves  from  death  and 
old  age."  Such  departure  from!  the  Oriental  illustrative 
material  is  unnecessary.  These  attributes  are  found  in 
Oriental  conceptions  of  the  underworld ;  shape-shifting  is 
general,^^  and  the  descriptions  of  the  place  are  not  unlike 
those  of  the  Celtic  otherworld  in  that  it  is  reached  with 
difficulty,  and  in  the  palace  there  is  to  be  found  food  of 
immortality,  water  of  life."  In  one  respect  this  Oriental 
underworld  is  of  far  more  interest  to  the  Grail  student 
than  is  the  Celtic.  Though,  like  the  Celtic,  it  is  without 
definite  name,  one  of  its  epithets  significantly  enough 
means  "to  ask."  I  quote  Professor  Jastrow's  discussion 
of  the  name:  "A  third  name  for  the  netherworld  which 
conveys  an  important  addition  to  the  views  held  regard- 
ing the  dead,  was  Shualu.  .  .  .  The  priests  appear  to 
avoid  the  names  for  the  netherworld,  which  were  of  ill 
omen,  and  preferred  to  describe  the  place  by  some 
epithet,  as  'land  without  return,'  or  'dark  dwelling,'  or 
'great  city,'  and  the  like.  .  .  .  The  stem  underlying 
Shualu  signifies  'to  ask.'  Shualu  is  a  place  of  inquiry, 
and  the  inquiry  meant  is  of  the  nature  of  a  religious 
oracle.  The  name,  accordingly,  is  an  indication  of  the 
power  accorded  to  the  dead,  to  aid  the  living  by  furnish- 
ing them  with  answers  to  questions. "^'^ 

Shualu  then  certainly  offers  in  this  respect  a  closer  re- 
semblance to  the  Grail  Castle,  also  a  place  of  inquiry, 

75PMLA.,  XXIV,  396,  397. 

"6  A.  Wiedermann,  Die  Toten  und  ihre  Reiche  im  Glauben  der 
alien  Agypter,  p.  13. 

TT  A.  Jeremias,  Holle  und  Paradies  hei  den  Babyloniern,  pp.  14, 
15,  16,  22. 

78  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  pp.  558,  559. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GKAIL  197 

than  does  the  Celtic  otherworld.     This  point  will  be  con- 
sidered more  fully  later. 

§2.     Agrarian  Rites  as  an  Explanation  of  the  Grail 
Ceremony 

Professor  Nitze's  chief  interest  in  this  study  is  not,  how- 
ever, with  Celtic  relationships.  His  position  he  states 
clearly:  "The  Holy  Grail,  by  the  mediaeval  romancers 
often  conceived  in  terms  of  a  quest,  is  au  fond  an  initia- 
tion, the  purpose  of  which  is  to  insure  the  life  of  the 
vegetation  spirit,  always  in  danger  of  extinction,  and  to 
admit  the  'qualified'  mortal  into  its  mystery.  I  do  not 
believe  we  can  go  far  wrong  in  insisting  on  both  its 
agrarian  and  its  mystic  features.  .  .  .  Like  the  Elusinia, 
the  Grail  rites  may  have  been  agrarian  and  mystic  from 
the  start.  At  all  events,  no  positive  distinction  is  to  be 
made."^^  According  to  Professor  Nitze's  analysis,  the 
"Grail  theme  contains  three  essential  figures  and  three 
important  symbols."^*'  The  figures  are :  the  Fisher-King, 
the  Grail  knight,  and  the  Fisher-King's  father  or 
"double."  For  the  Fisher-King  Mr.  !N"itze  finds  it  dif- 
ficult to  obtain  any  one  explanatory  term.  He  calls  him 
"an  intermediary  between  the  two  planes  of  existence;" 
"the  symbol  of  creative  force  in  nature,"  especially  mois- 
ture ;  "the  guide  to  the  other  world."^^  The  Grail  Knight 
is  the  initiate.*^  The  Fisher-King's  father  or  "double" 
is  the  life-god  himself.®^  The  three  symbols  are:  the 
Grail,  which  he  equates  with  the    fcia-rr}    or  Holy  Box  of 

T9  PMLA.,  XXIV,  394. 
soiMd.,  395. 
silUd.,  395. 

82  Ibid.,  398. 

83  Ibid.,  398. 


198  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

the  Mysteries,  "the  receptacle  for  the  divine  food  (wafer 
or  blood)  by  partaking  of  which  the  mortal  establishes 
a  blood-bond  with  the  god  ;"®*  the  Lance,  "the  weapon  with 
which  the  Deity's  strength  has  been  impaired,  .  .  .  the 
instrument  of  sacrifice  ;"^^  the  Sword,  the  folk-lore  Sword 
of  Light.'"^ 

Admitting  at  the  outset  that  the  agrarian  rites  are 
in  large  measure  the  counterpart  of  the  Grail  rites.  Miss 
Weston  goes  much  farther,  emphasizing  the  mystic  as 
the  more  important  features  of  the  resemblance.  "This, 
then,"  she  summarizes,  "is  my  view  of  the  intricate  prob- 
lem of  the  Grail  romances.  It  started  from  the  standpoint 
of  instruction  in  the  Nature,  and  Sources,  of  Life,  in  all 
its  manifestations,  the  outward  and  popular  form  of 
such  instructions  being  embodied  in  the  rites  familiar  to 
scholars  as  connected  with  Vegetation.  This  teaching, 
which  had  been  discouraged  and  displaced  by  Christian- 
ity boldly  identified  itself  with  its  victorious  rival,  on 
the  outward  basis  of  the  reverence  paid  to  the  Saint 
Sang/''' 

Miss  Weston  holds  that  "the  'Adonis'  rites,  as  fitly 
represented,  had  a  triple  character;  there  was  the  exter- 
nal ritual,  setting  forth  in  objective  parable  the  natural 
processes  of  Vegetation,  understood  and  shared  by  all; 
and  there  was  secret  teaching,  probably  ritual,  of  a  two- 
fold character.  Phallic  and  Philosophic ;  in  both  these  in- 
stances tests  were  required  from  the  aspirant,  physical 
tests  probably  in  the  first  case,  a  severe  mental  training 
in   the    second."^^      Following   out   this    idea,    she    finds 

8-iibid.,  400. 
S5ibid.,  404. 

86  Ibid.,  406. 

87  Perceval,  II,  285. 
88iUd.,  256. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AA'D    THE    GKAIL  199 

"there  was  not  one  vessel,  but  three,  or  rather  one  vessel 
in  three  aspects,  depending  upon  the  plane  on  which  the 
instruction  was  given."  She  takes  the  middle  plane,  that 
of  Humanity,  or  Actuality,  to  he  the  one  on  which  the 
external  rites  were  celebrated,  and  would  represent  this 
by  the  Feeding  Vessel.  The  plane  below  is  represented 
by  the  "Cup  with  its  companion  symbol  the  Lance,  from 
which  it  received  the  Blood,  the  source  of  animal  life." 
The  plane  above  is  represented  by  the  "  'Holy  Grail,  the 
ultimate  source  of  Spiritual,  undying.  Life,  invisible  un- 
der normal  conditions — ^the  vision  is  vouchsafed  as  the 
reward  of  severe  testing."*®  "Each  stage,"  according  to 
Miss  Weston,  "has  its  Guardian."  The  Fisher-King,  she 
makes  the  vital  principle,  the  Guardian  of  the  'Holy' 
Grail.  The  'Maimed  King'  is  the  Fisher-King  restrained 
and  hampered  by  the  Flesh,  the  Guardian  of  the  Rich 
Grail.  The  "Guardian  on  the  third,  the  Phallic,  plane," 
she  adds,  "can  hardly  be  other  than  the  mysterious  third 
brother  retained  only  in  the  Perlesvaus,  'the  King  of  the 
Chastel  Morteil  (the  Body  ?)  in  whom  was  as  much  of 
evil  as  in  the  other  two  of  good."®" 

Professor  l^itze,  is  here,  it  will  be  seen,  much  more 
cautious  than  Miss  Weston.  The  lance  in  Professor 
Nitze's  scheme,  being  the  symbol  of  sacrifice,  possesses 
far  greater  importance  than  it  has  for  Miss  Weston,  who 
regards  it  as  a  phallic  symbol  appearing  only  on  the 
lowest  plane,  the  exoteric  rites  of  the  Grail.  Since  it  is 
manifestly  impossible  at  this  point  to  separate  the  ques- 
tion of  the  lance  of  the  agrarian  cult  from  the  general 
interpretation  of  which  it  is  a  part,  specific  considera- 
tion of  its  functions  must  be  postponed. 

soiMd.,  257,  258. 
so  Ibid.,  259,  260. 


200  the  legend  of  longinus 

§3.     Connection  Between  Early  Liturgy  and  Rites 
OF  the  Mysteries 

Professor  ISTitze  and  Miss  Weston  are,  I  think,  right  in 
affirming  the  fundamental  similarity  of  the  Grail  rites  and 
the  agrarian  cult.  There  may  also  be  ground  for  the 
additional  suggestion  made  by  Professor  ISTitze  that  these 
rites  have  passed  through  Celtic  hands.  At  almost  every 
point,  however,  the  question  arises,  whether  the  particu- 
lar matter  under  discussion  cannot  as  well  be  explained 
by  Christian  custom.  This  being  the  case,  an  interpreta- 
tion that  disregards  entirely  the  possibility  of  early  Chris- 
tian influence  cannot  be  accepted  without  question.  Espe- 
cially is  this  the  case  at  a  time  when  investigators  of  the 
origins  of  Christianity,  both  within  and  without  the 
Church,  agree  that  there  is  close  relationship  between 
these  early  mysteries  and  early  Christian  rites. 

Professor  J^itze  himself  recogTiizes  the  possible  con- 
nection between  the  mysteries  he  is  describing  and  the 
early  liturgy.  "I  do  not  wish  to  imply,"  he  remarks, 
"that  the  Eucharist  and  the  Grail  ceremony  may  not  go 
back  to  similar  primitive  rites.'"'^  That  these  early  mys- 
teries are  related  in  some  way  to  the  ceremonies  and  be- 
lief of  the  early  church  is  now  very  generally  accepted. 
"The  rise  of  the  church,"  says  Glover,  "was  accom- 
panied by  the  rise  of  mysteries."  "That  such  ideas," 
he  explains,  "should  emerge  in  the  Christian  commu- 
nity is  natural  enough,  when  we  consider  its  environ- 

91  Op.  cit.,  p.  372.  Cf.  Miss  Weston,  Perceval,  II,  293,  "Christi- 
anity, too,  had  its  Mysteries,  and  those  Mysteries  were  in  aim 
and  practice  analogous  to  the  greater  Mysteries  of  India  and 
Egypt."    Cf.  also  Nutt,  Folk-Lore,  XXI,  115.  117. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GEAIL    201 

ment — a  world  without  natural  science,  steeped  in  belief 
in  every  kind  of  magic  and  enchantment,  and  full  of 
public  and  private  religious  societies,  every  one  of  which 
had  its  mysteries  and  miracles  and  its  blood  bond  with 
its  peculiar  deity.  It  was  from  such  a  world  and  such 
societies  that  most  of  the  converts  came  and  brought  with 
them  the  thoughts  and  instincts  of  countless  generations, 
who  had  never  conceived  of  a  religion  without  rites  and 
mysteries."^^ 

Famell  calls  attention  to  the  "deep  indebtedness  of 
Christianity  in  respect  of  ritual,  organization,  and  even 
religious  concept  to  the  Eleusinian  Mysteries  and  other 
mystic  societies  of  Greek  lands.  .  .  .  The  religious  affini- 
ties discoverable  between  the  earlier  and  later  'Mediter- 
ranean' systems,"  he  remarks,  "may  be  classified  accord- 
ing as  they  appear  in  the  legends,  in  nomenclature  and 
terminology,  in  external  symbols  and  liturgical  objects, 
in  hieratic  institutions,  and  finally  in  the  ideas,  aspira- 
tions, and  concepts  of  faith. "®^ 

Wernle's  testimony  is  still  more  important  for  the  pres- 
ent purpose.  He  attempts  to  show  that  Jesus  himself 
established  no  mysterious  cult,  that  from  the  very  first 
he  courted  publicity,  but  he  adds  that  the  persecution  of 
the  Jewish  Church  and  afterwards  of  the  Roman  gov- 
ernment "made  of  Christianity  a  sect  that  shunned  the 
light."  The  rise  of  Gnosticism,  according  to  Wernle, 
caused  a  number  of  small  sects  to  appear,  and  these  fell 
irrevocably  under  the  influence  of  the  mysteries,  culti- 
vating as  they  did,  in  common  with  the  mysteries,  an 
esoteric  doctrine.  In  winning  the  victory  over  Gnosti- 
cism, Wernle  explains,  the  Christian  teachers  adopted  in 

92  The  Conflict  of  Religions  in  the  Early  Roman  Empire,  190y, 
pp.  158,  159. 

93  The  Evolution  of  Religion,  1905,  pp.  22  ff. 


202  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

many  respects  the  opinions  of  tlieir  opponents.  The 
sacraments  show  this  influence  of  the  mysteries  most 
strongly.  Baptism  and  the  Lord's  Supper  become  "mys- 
terious initiatory  rites,"  and  "sacramental  apparatus  be- 
comes ever  more  and  more  complicated  through  competi- 
tion with  other  sacraments."  He  comments  on  the  fact 
that  Ignatius  with  "perfect  outspokenness  calls  the  Lord's 
Supper  a  'magic  rite.'  '"'^ 

It  would  be  possible  to  adduce  a  gTcat  deal  more  evi- 
dence on  this  point.  Everyone  who  deals  with  the  be- 
ginnings of  religions  calls  attention  to  such  resemblances. 
It  is  hardly  necessary  to  note  that  many  Christian  fes- 
tivals are  definitely  traceable  to  more  primitive  relig- 
ions. Christmas,  Easter,  the  Assumption  of  the  Virgin, 
to  mention  only  a  few,  apparently  superseded  earlier 
heathen  feasts. 

Accordingly,  where,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Grail,  so  much 
reason  appears  for  believing  a  legend  to  be  of  Christian 
origin,  the  presence  of  traces  of  earlier  heathen  ritual 
will  hardly  make  Christian  derivation  impossible.  To 
put  such  obligation  out  of  the  question,  one  would  be 
compelled  to  show  that  these  antecedent  heathen  customs 
were  not  taken  over  by  the  Church  as  so  many  similar 
customs  assuredly  were.  This  it  would  be  difficult  to  do. 
The  points  Professor  K'itze  explains  by  analogies  drawn 
from  the  early  mysteries  may  in  many  cases  be  more 
satisfactorily  accounted  for  by  the  early  liturgy.  Even 
the  'heterodox  tinge'  is  less  striking  if  the  comparison 
be  made,  not  with  church  usages  of  later  times,  but  with 
those  that  found  place  in  the  early  Church  ritual  when 
it  was  least  remote  from  the  corresponding  ritualistic  cus- 
toms of  the  Mediterranean. 

9^  P.  Wernle,   The  Beginning  of  Christianity    (trans,  by  Rev. 
G.  A.  Bienemann),  II,  123  ff. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GRAIL    203 


§4.     Elements  Common  to  Geail  Ejtes^  Mysteries^ 
AND  Liturgy 

There  are  few  elements  common  to  the  Grail  rites  and 
to  the  mysteries  that  do  not  occur  also  in  the  liturgy  or 
in  early  Christian  legend.  Mr.  Nitze,  in  defining  the 
purpose  of  the  mysteries,  states  that  "they  induce  through 
a  sacrificial  feast  the  fructification  of  nature,"  and  they 
"initiate  the  human  soul  into  the  secret  of  life  by  bring- 
ing it,  as  it  were,  into  relationship  with  the  life  deity."'"' 
The  second  of  these  purposes  is  fundamental  in  all  primi- 
tive rites.  Brinton  calls  attention  to  the  similarity  of 
these  to  the  Christian  eucharist.  "Traces  of  human  sac- 
rifice are  discovered  in  the  early  history  of  even  the 
noblest  religions,  and  the  rite  extended  so  widely  that 
scarce  a  cult  can  be  named  in  which  it  did  not  exist. 
,  .  .  The  idea  of  atonement  in  the  piacular  sacrifice  is 
in  reality  that  of  being  one  with  the  god,  that  of  enter- 
ing into  union  or  communion  with  him.  This,  indeed, 
lies  largely  at  the  base  of  all  the  forms  of  ritualistic  wor- 
ship."^' 

Though  in  the  Christian  liturgy  there  is  little  left  to 
remind  one  of  the  first  of  the  purposes  mentioned  by  Mr. 
Nitze — "the  fructification  of  nature" — ^the  date  of  the 
celebration  of  Easter  coincides  with  that  of  the  Mediter- 
ranean nature  rites."^  Moreover,  the  idea  of  the  death 
of  vegetation  as  a  result  of  the  death  of  the  Lord,  does 
occur  in  Christian  legend  and  must  ultimately  be  trace- 
able to  the  vegetation  myth.     I  refer  to  the  ancient  and 

95  Op.  cit.,  p.  384. 

QQ  Religions  of  Primitive  Peoples,  1899,  p.  189. 
97  Cf.  Frazer,  Adonis,  Attis  and  Osiris,  p.  198,  for  discussion  of 
this  coincidence. 
14 


204  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

well-known  legend  of  the  Dry  Tree,  for  which  one  may 
turn  conveniently  to  the  account  given  by  Mandeville  in 
his  description  of  the  valley  of  Mambre:  "And  there 
is  a  Tree  of  Oke,  that  the  Sarazines  clepen  Dirpe,  that 
is  of  Abrahames  tyme,  the  whiche  Men  clepen  the  drye 
Tree — and  they  seye  that  it  hathe  ben  there  sithe  the 
beginnynge  of  the  World ;  and  was  sumtyme  grene,  and 
bare  Leves,  unto  the  tyme  that  oure  Lord  dyede  on  the 
Cros ;  and  thanne  it  dryede ;  and  so  dyden  alle  the  Trees, 
that  weren  thanne  in  the  World.  And  sunime  seyn  be 
here  Prophecyen,  that  a  Lord,  a  Prynce  of  the  West  syde 
of  the  World  shall  wynnen  the  Lond  of  Promyssioun, 
that  is  the  Holy  Lond,  withe  helpe  of  Cristene  Men; 
and  he  schalle  do  s^Tige  a  Masse  undir  that  drye  Tree, 
and  than  the  Tree  schalle  wexen  grene  and  here  bothe 
Fruyt  and  Leves."®*  This  last  sentence  suggests  that  the 
mass  under  the  tree  replaced  an  old  vegetation  ceremony 
under  the  tree,  where  the  victim  or  his  symbol  was  sacri- 
ficed. ®®  When  we  remember  that  in  the  Oriental  mass 
the  wafer  was  treated  in  all  respects  like  a  sacrifice, 
stabbed  with  a  lance,  the  suggestion  becomes  more  sig- 
nificant. 

The  fish,  which  Professor  Nitze  notes  was  the  symbol 
of  Adonis,  and  represented  the  life  principle,  early  be- 
came associated  with  Christ.  Dr.  Eisler  seeks  "to  recon- 
cile the  fact  that  although  the  Eucharist  was  primarily 
a  vegetable  sacrifice  intended  to  supersede  the  animal 
sacrifice  of  scriptural  Judaism,  there  yet  occurred  in  the 
Eucharistic  tradition  constant  allusions  to  (1)  the  fish 
and  (2)  the  lamb."    He  explains  the  fish  "on  the  ground 

S8  The  Voiage  and  Travaile  of  Sir  John  Maundeville,  London, 
1866,  pp.  68,  69. 

99  Cf.  Frazer,  Adonis,  Attis  and  Osiris,  p.  186. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGIISrUS    AND    THE    GRAIL  205 

that  Christ  found  at  Bethsaida  ...  a  local  pagan  cult 
of  the  widely  spread  fish-god,  availed  himself  of  it,  and 
spiritualized  it  by  means  of  an  etymological  coincidence 
between  lehem,  bread,  luhm,  fish,  and  luhm,  breath  or 
spirit."'"" 

"The  sacred  procession,"  Mr.  ISTitze  tells  us,  "also 
brought  the  initiate  into  relationship  with  the  deity — 
but  through  the  avenue  of  sight.  This  was  the  act  where- 
by the  hierophant  revealed  to  him  the  sacred  objects. 
Apparently  they  were  taken  out  of  the  ^teyapov,  into 
which  the  hierophant  alone  could  enter,  and,  their  cov- 
ers being  removed,  they  appeared  to  the  mystae  in  bril- 
liant illumination.  What  they  were  is  not  known,  yet 
it  seems  probable  that  among  them  were  legendary  relics, 
'such,'  says  Farnell,  'as  would  cause  a  religious  tremor 
in  the  spectator.' '""' 

The  sacred  procession  is  of  course  paralleled  in  the 
liturgy.  Since  we  do  not  know  what  relics  were  carried 
in  the  Eleusinian  mysteries,  the  connection  in  this  in- 
stance seems  much  more  tangible  between  the  Grail  rites 
and  those  of  the  Church,  Of  the  sacred  objects  borne  in 
the  Grail  procession  of  the  talismans,  the  Grail  lance, 
plates,  cross,  all  are  found  in  the  introitus. 

The  "Holy  Box"  of  the  mysteries  finds  its  counterpart 
as  a  receptacle  containing  the  divine  food  in  the  chalice 
or  paten  of  the  mass.  And  the  lance,  which  Professor 
Nitze  makes  an  instrument  of  sacrifice  which  "impairs 
life  only  in  order  to  sustain  it  elsewhere,"  is  clearly  not 
different  from  the  crucifixion  relic,  which,  as  has  been 
pointed  out,  possesses  exactly  these  characteristics. 

100  Transactions  of  the  Third  International  Congress  of  Re- 
ligions, II.  352. 

101  Op.  cit.,  p.  388. 


206  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Much  that  is  apparently  heathen  in  the  Grail  legend 
was,  I  do  not  doubt,  Christian  by  adoption  at  the  time 
the  story  took  its  rise.  It  is  evident  that  much  confusion 
exists  between  early  Christian  tradition  and  antecedent 
heathen  custom  and  belief/""  It  has  been  shown  that 
the  holy  lance,  originally  a  Christian  relic,  enriched 
itself  by  accretions  from  many  sources.  Somewhat  the 
same  thing  took  place  in  s^anbolism  connected  with  Jesus 
himself.  The  Fecamp  story  of  the  sacred  blood,  as  Pro- 
fessor ISTitze  has  pointed  out,  finds  close  parallel  in  the 
vegetation  myth  of  Osiris.^^^  It  is  to  be  noted  that  the 
sycamore  which,  as  Professor  jSTitze  says,  was  sacred  to 
Osiris  and  from  which  the  Egyptians  carved  his  image, 
is  also,  in  the  Greek  Physiologiis,  identified  with  Christ. 
After  the  spear  thrust,  blood  and  water  flow  from  the  side 
of  Christ,  just  as,  after  it  is  cut  with  the  knife,  sap  flows 
from  the  sycamore.  The  Crucified  after  three  days  rises ; 
the  sycamore  three  days  after  it  is  cut  becomes  food  for  all. 
Here  also  is  a  transference  of  vegetation  symbolism  to  the 
life  of  Christ.'"* 

III.     The  Grail  Rite 

§1.     The  Geail  Pbocession" 

Up  to  this  point  the  lance  of  the  Grail  Castle  has  been 
the  center  of  interest.     The  lance,  however,  is  of  signifi- 

102  It  has  been  noted  in  this  study  (pp.  72  ff.)  that  heathen 
ancient  charms  and  spells  against  evil  spirits  and  disease  were 
adopted  by  the  Church  and  slightly  Christianized.  It  is  hardly 
worth  citing  what  has  been  often  remarked  that  in  art  Isis  and 
the  young  Horus  formed  the  model  for  the  Virgin  and  Child,  and 
that  the  wounded  Attis  and  Venus  were  by  easy  transfer  made 
the  Christian  Pieta. 

103  Op.  cit.,  pp.  402,  403. 

104  Lauchert,  Geschichte  des  Physiologus,  pp.  37,  38. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LOXGINUS    AKD    THE    GKAIL  207 

cance  only  as  one  of  the  objects  borne  in  the  Grail  pro- 
cession, and  this  procession  again  is  of  importance  only 
as  part  of  the  rite.  How  much  of  the  account  of  Perce- 
val's experience  in  the  Grail  Castle  may  be  explained 
an  Christian?  Crestien's  description  of  the  procession 
reads  as  follows : 

4369  Uns  varies  d'une  cambre  vint, 

Qui  une  blance  lance  tint, 
Enpoignie  par  emmi  leu; 
Si  passa  par  entre  le  feu 
Et  cil  ki  sor  le  lit  seoient, 
Et  tout  cil  ki  laiens  estoient 
Virent  la  lance  est  le  fer  blanc: 
S'en  ist  une  goute  de  sane 
Del  fer  de  la  lance  el  somet, 
Et  jusqu'a  la  main  au  varlet, 
Couloit  cele  goute  vermelle 


4391  Atant  dui  varlet  k  lui  vinrent, 

Qui  candelers  en  lor  mains  tinrent 

De  fin  or  ouvret  a  chisiel; 

Li  varlet  estoient  moult  biel 

Qui  les  candelers  aportoient 

En  cascun  candelles  ardoient 

X.     candoiles  a  tout  les  mains. 

Un  graal  entre  ses  II.  mains 

Une  damoisiele  tenoit. 

Qui  avoec  les  varies  venoit, 

Bidle,  gente  et  acesmee; 

Quant  ele  fu  laiens  entree 

Atout  le  graal  qu'ele  tint, 

Une  si  grans  clartes  i  vint 

Que  si  pierdirent  les  candoiles 

Lor  clarte,  com  font  les  estoiles 

Quant  li  solaus  lieve  ou  la  lune: 

Apries  igou  en  revient  une 

Qui  tint  le  tailleoir  d'argent; 

Iqou  vos  di  veraiment, 

De  fin  or  esmeree  estoit, 

Pieres  pressieuses  avoit 

El  graal,  de  maintes  manieres. 


208  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

Des  plus  rices  et  des  plus  cieres 
Qui  el  mont  u  en  tiere  soient; 
Totes  autres  pieres  pasoient 
Celes  du  greal,  sans  dotance. 

As  has  been  pointed  out  more  than  once,  this  Grail 
procession  finds  its  close  parallel  in  the  Greek  mass/"^ 
The  candles,  lance,  chalice,  paten,  of  the  mass,  all  ap- 
pear in  Crestien's  description.  The  blood  on  the  lance 
and  the  host  on  the  grail  also  make  evident  the  repro- 
duction here  of  the  eucharistic  rite.  Compared  with 
Crestien,  Professor  jS^itze's  Eleusinian  parallel  is  not  im- 
pressive. He  says  sacred  objects, — of  what  sort  he  does 
not  know,  but  probably  legendary  relics, — were  appar- 
ently revealed  by  the  hierophant  to  the  initiate.  The 
Christian  explanation,  on  the  other  hand,  is  here  ade- 
quate. 

^N^otwithstanding  the  similarity  of  the  two  processions, 
however.  Professor  ISTitze  finds  "the  only  possibly  Chris- 
tian elements  in  the  procession  are  the  'plate,'  and  the 
host  (oiste)  which  sustains  the  life  of  the  Pisher-King's 
father.""®  Professor  Brown  makes  not  even  this  admis- 
sion: "Chretien  could  not  have  thought  of  connecting 
this  procession  with  any  part  of  the  ritual  of  the  Mass. 
Had  he  done  so  he  would  not  have  put  the  Grail  into 
the  hands  of  a  lovely  young  maiden  but  of  a  priest  or 
acolyte.'""^  ISlot  even  the  host  suggests  the  mass:  "Chre- 
tien is  certainly  alluding  here  to  some  legend,  .  .  .  like 
that  about  Pachomius,  of  a  saint  Avho  was  miraculously 
sustained  on  a  wafer  a  day,  and  not  to  the  consecrated 

losBurdach  Literaturzeitung  XXIV  (1903),  2821  ff.;  Golther 
Parzival  und  der  Oral,  in  deutscher  Sage  des  Mittelalters  und  der 
Neuzeit,  Munich,  1908   (Walhalla,  IV),  p.  2. 

106  Op.  cit.,  pp.  414,  415. 

107  Brown,  op.  cit.,  p.  8. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GRAIL  209 

wafer.  The  latter  meaning  for  'oiste'  seems  excluded; 
for  to  the  twelfth  century,  Chretien  would  have  been 
guilty  of  gross  sacrilege  if  he  had  represented  the  con- 
secrated wafer  as  carried  in  procession  in  a  secular  hall 
by  a  beautiful  maiden."^"^  Similar  is  the  position  of 
Baist,^"®  whom  Professor  Brown  is  apparently  following  in 
this  part  of  his  discussion.  Golther,  too,  calls  attention 
to  the  Grail  maidens,  but  he  thinks  them  justified  on 
poetic  grounds. 

Not  even  the  maidens  as  participants  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  sacrament,  are,  however,  opposed  to  the 
usage  of  the  early  Church.  An  Oriental  custom,  con- 
nected with  the  presence  of  women  as  well  as  men  ascetics 
in  the  church,  it  traveled  from  the  East  into  Ireland, 
and  was  brought  to  Brittany  by  Irish  missionaries. ^^^ 
Especially  interesting  is  the  existence  of  such  a  usage  in 
these  places,  both  so  definitely,  if  also  obscurely,  asso- 
ciated with  Grail  origins.  Fortunately,  authentic  evi- 
dence of  this  usage  has  been  preserved  in  a  letter  written 
in  the  sixth  century  by  three  Galilean  bishops,  Licinius  of 
Tours,  Melaine  of  Rennes,  and  Eustochius  of  Angers,  to 
the  Irish  priests  Lovocatus  and  Catihemus  in  Brittany. 
This  letter,  condemning  the  practices  of  these  Irish  priests 
as  abuses,  sets  forth  these  practices  in  detail,  and  thus 
affords  convincing  evidence  of  their  existence. 

The  letter  reads  as  follows: 

Dominis  Beatissimis  et  in  Christo  fratribus  Lovocato  et  Cati- 
herno  presbyteris,  Licinius,  Melanius  et  Eustocbius,  episcopi. 
Viri  venerabilis    Sparati   presbyteri   relatione   cognovimus   quod 

io»IMd.,  p.  9. 

109  Parzival  und  der  Gral,  1909,  p.  41. 

110  See  for  full  discussion  of  the  whole  matter  of  the  Agapetae, 
H.  Achelis,  Hastings'  Encyc.  of  Religion  and  Ethics.  Duchesne, 
Revue  de  Bretagne,  57  (1885),  5  ff. 


210  THE    LEGE^NTD    OF    LOXGIXUS 

gestantes  quasdam  tabulas  per  diversorum  civium  vestrorum 
capanas  circumferre  non  desinatis  et  missas,  ibidem  adhibitis 
mulieribus  in  sacrificio  divino,  quas  conhospitas  nominastis, 
facere  praesumatis,  sic  ut  erogantibus  vobis  eucharistiam  illae 
vobis  positis  calices  teneant  et  sanguinem  Christi  populo 
administrare  praesumant.  Cujus  rei  novitas  et  inaudita  super- 
stitio  nos  non  leviter  contristavit,  ut  tarn  horrenda  secta,  quae 
intra  Gallias  numquam  fuisse  probatur,  nostris  temporibus  vide- 
atur  emergere,  quam  Patres  Orientales  Pepondianam  vocant,  pro 
60  quod  Pepondius  auctor  hujus  scismatis  fuerit,  et  mulieres  sibi 
in  sacrificio  consocias  habere  praesumpserit,  praecipientes  ut 
quicumque  huic  errori  voluerit  inhaerere,  a  communione  ecclesi- 
astica  reddatur  extraneus.  Qua  de  re  Caritatem  vestram  in 
Christi  amore  pro  ecclesiae  unitate  et  fidei  catholicae  [societate] 
imprimis  credidimus  admonendam,  obsecrantes  ut  cum  ad  vos 
nostra  pervenerit  pagina  litterarum,  repentina  de  praedictis  rebus 
emendatio  subsequatur;  id  est  de  antedictis  tabulis,  quas  a  pres- 
byteris  non  dubitamus,  ut  dictis,  consecratas,  et  de  mulieribus 
illis  quas  conhospitas  dicitis,  quae  nuncupatio  non  sine  quodam 
tremore  dicitur  animi  vel  auditur,  quod  clerum  infamat  et  sancta 
in  religione  tam  detestandum  nomen  pudorem  incutit  et  horro- 
rem.  Idcirco,  secundum  statuta  Patrum,  caritati  vestrae  praeci- 
pimus  ut  non  solum  huiuscemodi  mulierculae  sacramenta  divina 
pro  inlicita  administratione  non  poUuant,  sed  etiam  praeter 
matrem,  aviam,  sororem  vel  neptem  intra  tectum  cuUulae  suae 
si  quis  ad  cohabitandum  habere  voluerit,  canonum  sententia  a 
sacrosanctae  liminibus  ecclesiae  arceatur.m 

This  rebuke,  with  the  threat  of  excommunication,  is 
to  be  noted  on  two  scores,  (1)  These  Irish  priests  cele- 
brated the  mass  on  portable  altars  carried  from  dwelling 
to  dwelling,  (2)  Thej  were  assisted  in  the  administration 
of  the  Eucharist  by  women.  Both  these  points  are  of 
the  highest  interest  to  students  of  the  Grail. 

These  portable  altars,  Duchesne  notes,  were  employed 
in  the  East  and  West,  not  only  in  missionary  districts 
where  there  were  no  churches,  but  also  in  the  great  cities, 
in    chapels,    cemeteries    and    elsewhere.       In    Wolfram's 

111  lUd.,  57,  6  ff. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GKAIL     211 

Parzifal  the  Grail  is  not  a  vessel  as  in  the  other  ro- 
mances, but  a  stone.  Recent  criticism  makes  this  stone 
equivalent  to  a  small  portable  altar.^^^  The  Grail  ac- 
cording to  these  explanations  was  originally  the  altar  on 
which — to  use  ISTutt's  phrase — "is  accomplished  the  per- 
petual miracle  of  the  Eucharist,  the  spiritual  feeding 
of  the  faithful."  It  would  make  little  difference  whether 
the  altar  were  called  Grail,  or  whether  the  specific  vessel 
resting  on  the  consecrated  altar,  and  itself  holding  the 
miraculous  blood,  were  so  named ;  one  writer  might  prefer 
the  altar  and  another  might  think  the  vessel  possessed  the 
greater  sanctity.  Dr.  Iselin  has  compared  the  grail  stone 
or  altar  to  the  "marvellous  stone  which  the  builders  re- 
jected, but  which  became  the  cornerstone,  that  on  which 
the  foundations  of  the  Earth  are  laid,  the  water  yielding 
stone  of  the  wilderness  preserved  by  Joshua  to  become  the 
gravestone  of  Christ."^^^  The  cup  of  the  Eucharist  has, 
on  the  other  hand,  become  confused  with  the  holy  dish  of 
the  Last  Supper  and  with  the  vessel  in  which  Joseph 
caught  the  blood  of  the  slain  Christ,  If  the  Grail  were 
originally  the  altar,  it  is  obvious  that  transfer  of  the  name 
to  the  vessel  of  the  blood  would  be  simple. 

Duchesne  takes  the  real  point  of  difficulty  to  be,  not 
the  use  of  the  portable  altars,  but  the  celebration  of  the 
Eucharist  in  unconsecrated  houses.  He  calls  attention 
to  the  fact  that  in  Armjorica  there  were  churches  where 
the  Eucharist  could  be  celebrated  and  that  in  persisting 
in  the  custom  of  their  own  country  (where  the  absence 
of  numerous  churches  made  the  going  from  house  to 
house  to  administer  the  sacrament  necessary)   the  Irish 

112  L.  E.  Iselin,  Der  morgenldndische  Ursprung  der  Grallegende ; 
cf.  Nutt,  Academy,  May  10,  1910;  Sterzenbach,  op.  cit.,  p.  18  f. 

113  Cf.  Iselin,  op.  cit.,  pp.  58  ff. 


212  THE    LEGEND    OF    L0:N"^GINUS 

priests  were  opposing  themselves  to  the  church  in  their 
community.  This  satisfies,  it  is  to  be  noted,  Profes- 
sor Brown's  objection  to  the  fact  that  the  rite  is  cele- 
brated in  "a  secular  hall."  Instead  of  the  "gross  sac- 
rilege" which  Professor  Brown  takes  such  a  celebration 
to  be,^^*  it  becomes  a  reminder  of  what  was  in  the. early 
days  of  the  church  an  established  usage.  Duchesne  re- 
marks that  owing  to  the  fact  that  there  were  few  churches 
in  Ireland  customs  in  that  country  were  different:  "Au 
lieu  de  clerges  paroissiux,  on  avait  des  missionaires  itine- 
rants, allant  de  ferme  en  ferme,  ou  encore  d'une  maison- 
seigneuriale  a  I'autre." 

The  other  practice  complained  of  by  the  Gallican  bish- 
ops— ^that  of  permitting  women  to  participate  in  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  Eucharist — connects  itself  even  more 
significantly  with  the  Grail  procession,  in  which,  according 
to  the  usual  representation,  maidens  were  present.  This 
practice,  as  we  have  seen,  was  a  survival  of  early  usage 
whose  origin  is  traceable  to  the  Eastern  church.  How  long 
or  how  widely  this  usage  maintained  itself  it  is  impossible 
to  say.  Duchesne  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  serv- 
ice of  women  at  the  altar  was  condemned  by  the  Council 
of  J^imes  in  394.  The  letter  of  the  bishops  makes  it  clear 
that  in  the  sixth  century  the  practice  was  still  in  existence. 
The  letter  also  indicates  that  after  its  supj^ression  else- 
where this  usage  lingered  on  in  Ireland  and  Brittany,  the 
very  territory  in  which  the  Grail  legend  first  made  its 
appearance.  Though  it  is  true  that  between  the  writing  of 
this  letter  and  the  time  of  Crestien  six  centuries  inter- 
vened, it  is  also  true  that  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  far 
back  we  must  go  to  find  the  germ  of  the  Grail  story.  More- 
over, it  is  equally  impossible  to  conjecture  how  long  such  a 

114  Brown,  op.  cit.,  p.  9. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LOITGINUS    AND    THE    GKAIL  213 

usage  as  this,  or  the  tradition  of  it,  may  have  survived. 
The  mistiest  tradition  would  of  course  afford  basis  suffi- 
cient for  later  poetic  application.  If  a  story  itself  primitive 
and  recording  more  or  less  contemporary  practice,  had 
come  down  to  the  Grail  writers,  their  treatment  of  it,  at  a 
time  when  the  custom  referred  to  was  no  longer  under- 
stood, would  beyond  question  be  vague  and  perhaps  frag- 
mentary. Such  broken  use  would  all  the  more  be  ex- 
pected, if  instead  of  an  old  story,  only  shadowy  tradition 
that  in  remote  times  such  a  usage  had  obtained,  were  all 
that  was  available  to  the  Grail  romancer.  If,  however, 
we  return  to  the  supposition  that  there  was  a  story  in 
which  women  took  part  in  some  ritualistic  celebration,  and 
this  seems  probable,  it  may  have  developed  in  the  Orient, 
in  Ireland  or  in  Brittany,  the  three  places  where  the  cus- 
tom which  might  have  given  rise  to  such  a  story  was 
known. 

§2.     Othee  Ritualistic  Points 

There  is,  then,  nothing  in  the  Grail  procession,  not 
even  the  Grail  in  the  hands  of  a  maiden,  which  cannot 
be  explained  as  Christian.  Are  there  other  obstacles  to 
a  Christian  interpretation  of  the  Grail  Castle  episode? 

(1)  Wauchier's  description.  Professor  Brown  urges,  is 
especially  barbarous  and  opposed  to  Christian  ideas.  It 
has  been  shown  that  the  blood  flowing  a  grand  randon 
finds  its  parallel  in  the  Longinus  legend.  Moreover, 
there  is  no  reason  to  regard  Wauchier's  express  state- 
ment that  the  lance  is  that  of  the  crucifixion  as  an  in- 
terpolation. Besides  these  two  indications  that  the  pas- 
sage is  Christian  there  is  another,  the  carrying  of  the 
blood  by  a  tube,  which  Professor  Brown  by  intimation 
makes  heathen.    He  remarks  in  connection  with  his  Irish 


214  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

spears  that  if  tliey  did  bleed  it  would  be  necessary,  as  in 
the  case  of  the  lance  of  Wauchier,  to  carry  off  the  blood 
by  "spout  and  conduit."  'Now  the  tube  which  is  found 
in  Wauchier's  description  is  precisely  one  of  the  points 
chosen  by  Staerk  as  indicating  Christian  influence.  He 
says :  'dass  der  kranke  rischerkonig  aus  dem  Gral  Blut 
mittels  einer  Rohre  fiihrung  der  Kelchentziehung  in 
Verfolg  des  Transsubstantiations — dogmas,  also  bis  zum 
12.  jahrh.,  verbreitenten  Sitte,  den  Wein  mittelst  der 
fistula  eucharistica  zu  geniessen."^^^ 

(2)  Yet  another  point  which  Professor  Brown  implies 
is  heathen  is  capable  of  Christian  explanation.  He  takes 
Wolfram's  description  of  the  Grail  to  be  essentially 
heathen  with  some  religious  associations  thrown  around 
it.  He  says,  "The  stone  received  this  power  from  a  host 
or  wafer  that  every  year  on  Good  Friday  a  white  dove 
lays  upon  it.  The  sight  of  the  Grail  protects  a  man 
from  death  for  a  week  and  keeps  him  from  growing 
older. "^^"^  In  his  note  to  this  passage,  he  suggests  that 
the  first  statement,  that  concerning  the  host,  is  Chris- 
tian and  late,  but  would  evidently  let  the  latter  state- 
ment stand  as  genuine  and  non-Christian.  His  note 
reads:  "These  life-giving  powers  of  the  Grail  are  men- 
tioned in  an  earlier  passage,  and  are  not  like  the  food- 
giving  properties,  said  to  be  due  to  the  'oblat'  brought 
by  the  dove.  May  not  this  omission  be  a  hint  that  the 
story  about  the  dove  was  a  late  explanation  loosely  at- 
tached to  the  account  of  the  marvellous  stone  ?"  The 
suggestion  which  Professor  Brown  here  makes  supplies 
another  illustration  of  his  tendency  to  suspect  Christian 
interpolations.      In   this    instance,    however,    he   has   not 

115  Ueber  den  Vrsprung  der  Grallegende  (1903),  p.  20,  note  2. 

116  Op.  cit.,  p.  10. 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GEAIL    215 

been  sufficiently  drastic,  as  the  part  he  would  leave  as 
earlier  is  as  thoroughly  Christian  as  the  part  he  con- 
siders a  late  explanation  loosely  attached.  The  life- 
giving  powers  of  the  Grail  are  also  derived  directly  from 
the  Eucharist.  Mediaeval  ideas  regarding  the  mass  are 
evident  in  this  item  drawn  from  the  Vertewis  of  the 
Mass,  attributed  by  the  writer  to  Augustine:  "Sancte 
Augustyne  sais  that  the  day  that  a  man  sal  here  mess 
with  clen  hart  &  gud  deuocione  he  sal  nocht  de  of  a 
sudane  ded.""^  Very  similar  is  the  statement,  likewise 
made  on  the  authority  of  Augustine,  in  the  metrical  text, 
The  Vertue  of  ]>e  Masse,  printed  by  Wynkyn  de  Worde: 

"that  daye  a  man  deuoutly  here  masse, 
whyle  he  is  present  he  shall  not  wexe  olde."ii8 

An  even  more  definite  expression  is  found  in  "The  Sacri- 
fice of  the  Mass" : 

Thyn  age,  at  messe  shall  not  encrease, 

nor  sodeyn  deth  >at  day  shall  not  pe  spill."ii9 

(3)  Miss  Weston  takes  the  weeping  women  of  the 
Grail  story  to  indicate  kinship  with  vegetation  rites, 
where  the  death  of  the  god  was  "mourned  with  solemn 
ritual  in  which  women  took  prominent  part."  Perhaps 
these  weeping  women  also  may  be  explained  by  early 
Christian  usage.  The  Christian  festival  of  the  saints, 
as  Saintyves  has  pointed  out,  were  the  direct  result  of  the 
demand   made  by  the  people  to   continue   their  custom 

117  Ed.  J.  R.  Lumby  from  MS.  Camb.  Univ.  Kk.  I.  5.,  EETS.,  43, 
p.  114. 

118  Quoted  by  Lumby,  Ibid.,  129.  Cf.  Lay.-Folks  Mass-Book, 
EETS.,  69,  56.  Cf.  N.  Love,  The  Mirror  of  the  Blessed  Lyf  of 
Jesu  Christ,  Ed.  L.  F.  Powell,  Oxford,  1908,  p.  318. 

119  Songs,  Carols  from  the  Balliol  MS  354,  EETS.,  101,  p.  70. 


216  THE    LEGE^^D    OF    LOISTGINUS 

of  honoring  the  dead.  The  cult  of  the  dead  was  com- 
mon throughout  the  country  surrounding  the  Mediter- 
ranean. These  funeral  feasts  "were  accompanied  by 
lamentation  and  weeping.  As  Saintyv^es  remarks  in  this 
connection:  "La  communion  eucharistque  en  memoire 
de  la  morte  du  Seigneur  est  primitivement  une  sorte  de 
banquet,  mais  inversement  1' agape  funebre  est  une  sorte 
de  communion  avec  le  mort."^^" 

Following  this  suggestion,  the  Grail  ceremony  would 
be  more  than  the  usual  celebration  of  the  mass.  To  all 
the  ordinary  mystic  significance  of  communion  with  the 
dead  Savior,  there  would  be  added  the  actual  human 
presentment  of  the  Redeemer  with  whom  communication, 
would  be  possible.  Significant  in  this  connection  is  the 
question  which  awakes  the  dead  and  by  which  the  living 
are  aided.  According  to  Professor  Jastrow's  suggestion, 
the  inquiry  "is  of  the  nature  of  a  religious  oracle."  If  the 
Christian  festival  grew  out  of  the  Oriental  death  cult 
it  would  not  be  strange  to  have  added  to  the  ceremony  the 
other  rite  of  awaking  the  dead,  the  rite  of  inquiry."^^^ 

120  Les  Saints  Successeurs  des  Dieux,  1907,  p.  71,  note  3. 

121  Cf.  above,  pp.  227,  228.  According  to  Jeremias,  Holle  und 
Parodies  bei  den  Babyloniern  (Eng.  J.  Hutchinson,  p.  28),  not 
much  is  known  of  this  'enquiring  of  the  dead.'  Among  the  various 
orders  of  priests,  the  'enquirer  of  the  dead'  is  included.  The 
question  asked  by  Isis  'whose  words  awake  the  dead'  of  Ra  (sun- 
god,  water  or  harvest-god,  etc.)  is  perhaps  worth  noting.  When 
Ra  is  'weakening  with  years,'  Isis  desiring  to  learn  his  name 
in  order  that  she  might  share  his  power  went  to  him  and  said, 
"What  aileth  thee,  what  aileth  thee,  divine  father?"  (Steindorff, 
Relig.  of  Ancient  Egyptians,  109;  Budge,  The  Ood  of  the  Egyp- 
tians, I.  380).  Note  the  similarity  of  the  question  to  that  asked 
by  Parzival  in  Wolfram  "oeheim,  waz  wirret  dir?"  {Parzival, 
Lachmann,  1879,  XVI,  1.  29,  p.  374.) 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GEAIL  217 


§3.     The  Fishee-King 

If  the  Grail  procession  is  a  reproduction  of  the  pro- 
cession of  the  Eucharist,  who  is  the  wounded  king? 
Golther  believes  there  is  some  symbolical  connection  be- 
tween the  wounded  king,  his  father,  and  the  young  hero, 
01)  the  one  hand,  and  the  mass  taken  in  the  mystic  sense 
oif  the  other.  If  the  Fisher-King  is  taken  as  Christ,  he 
remarks,  then  the  three  persons  can  be  explained.  The 
wounded  king  is  the  spear-wounded  Christ,  the  old  king 
is  Christ  in  the  grave,  the  young  knight  is  the  risen 
Christ.  He  thinks  the  threefold  mystery  of  the  sacrifice, 
death,  and  resurrection  is  represented  symbolically  by 
the  three  Grail  keepers. 

In  support  of  his  view,  he  calls  attention  to  the  pour- 
ing of  hot  water  into  the  wine  in  the  Eastern  church. 
This  act  is  meant  to  represent  symbolically  the  dead  and 
yet  living  spear-wounded  Savior.  He  is  dead  in  one 
sense  but  the  warm  blood  which  flows  from  the  wounded 
side  would  symbolically  reproduce  the  reawakening  at 
the  same  time  to  immortality. 

It  will  be  recalled  that  Professor  ISTitze's  and  Miss 
Weston's  explanations  of  the  Fisher-King,  though  they 
take  him  to  be  the  vegetation  god,  agree  in  part  with 
Golther's.  They  both  consider  the  wounded  king  the 
intermediary  between  two  states  of  existence;  they  agree 
also  in  making  the  "double"  the  vital  principle;  about 
the  third  they  differ,  since  Miss  Weston  attempts  to  find 
a  third  representing  the  merely  physical  (the  king  of 
the  Chastel  Morteil)  to  complete  the  trilogy,  and  Mr. 
Nitze  takes  the  third  to  be  the  initiate.  In  this  last  de- 
tail I  agree  with  Mr.  Nitze.  Golther's  explanation  would 
be  more  satisfactory  if  he  combined  the  two  representa- 


218  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS  , 

tives  of  Christ  and  made  tlie  dead  Christ  also  the  immortal, 
constantly  sustained  Redeemer,  the  source  of  all  spritual 
life. 

In  the  case  of  the  Fisher-King,  then,  as  well  as  in  the 
points  already  considered  —  the  lance,  the  grail,  the 
sacred  procession  —  the  Christian  explanation  satis nes 
the  conditions  imposed  by  the  Grail  story  as  well  as  the 
Celtic  or  the  agrarian  cult  parallels  hitherto  offered.  If 
we  take  it  that  the  festival  was  possibly  connected  with 
some  Eastern  ritual  feast  of  the  dead  such  as  we  now 
know  had  been  adopted  by  the  Christian  church  in  the 
case  of  saints  and  martyrs,  it  may  be  that  the  questions 
that  awoke  the  dead  and  served  both  dead  and  living 
were  also  included  in  the  service  of  some  Christian  cult. 

A  curious  old  ballad  appears  to  me  to  offer  significant 
resemblance  to  Grail  tradition,^^^  It  is  clearly  connected 
in  some  way  with  the  Grail  Castle : 

Lully,  lulley,  lully,  lulley 

The  faucon  hath  borne  my  make  away 

He  bare  him  up,  he  bare  him  down, 
He  bare  him  into  an  orchard  brown. 

In  that  orchard  there  was  an  halle 
That  was  hanged  with  purpill  and  pall. 

And  in  that  hall  there  was  a  bede, 
It  was  hanged  with  gold  so  rede. 

And  in  that  bede  there  lithe  a  knight 
His  woundis  bleding  day  and  might 

By  that  bede  side  kneleth  a  may, 
And  she  wepeth  both  night  and  day 

And  by  that  bede  side  there  stondeth  a  stone 
Corpus  Christi  wreten  there  on.i23 

i22Dyboski  (EETS.,  101,  p.  xxvi)  notes  the  resemblance  to  the 
Grail  legend. 

123  The  editors.  Chambers  and  Sidgwick,  (Early  English 
Lyrics,  p.  148)  say  that  no  other  early  version  is  known  but  pub- 


THE  LANCE  OF  LONGINUS  AND  THE  GKAIL    219 

Parallels  are  here  obvious — the  Grail  Castle  vaguely 
located,  the  weeping  maiden,  the  ever  bleeding  body  on 
the  bier,  with  the  identity  openly  stated  in  the  writing 
on  the  stone.  The  Corpus  Christi  with  the  accompany- 
ing suggestion  of  the  ceaseless  bleeding  must  inevitably 
strike  one  as  an  explicit  reference  to  the  Eucharist. ^^*  I 
offer  the  ballad,  not  of  course  as  convincing  testimony, 
but  as  a  bit  of  evidence  which  may  be  taken  into  ac- 

lish  ii\a  note  (p.  357)  a  traditional  version  found  in  the  middle 
of  the  last  century.  Cf.  EET8.,  e.  s.,  101,  p.  103;  Anglia,  XXVI, 
175;  Flugel,  Neuengl.  Lesebuch,  p.  142. 

1.  Over  yonder's  a  park,  which  is  newly  begun, 
All  bells  in  Paradise  I  heard  them  a-ring ; 
Which  is  silver  on  the  outside,  and  gold  within. 
And  I  love  sweet  Jesus  above  all  things. 

2.  And  in  that  park  there  stands  a  hall, 

Which  is  covered  all  over  with  purple  and  pall. 

3.  And  in  that  hall  there  stands  a  bed. 

Which  is  hung  all  round  with  silk  curtains  so  red. 

4.  And  in  that  bed  there  lies  a  knight. 

Whose  wounds  they  do  bleed  by  day  and  by  night. 

5.  At  that  bed  side  there  lies  a  stone, 

Which  is  our  blessed  virgin  Mary  then  kneeling  on 

6.  At  that  bed's  foot  there  lies  a  hound. 

Which  is  licking  the  blood  as  it  daily  runs  down. 

7.  At  that  bed's  head  there  grows  a  thorn 

Which  was  never  so  blossomed  since  Christ  was  born. 

This  reference  to  the  thorn  and  its  blossoming  must  recall  the 
famous  thorn  of  Glastonbury  (see  Skeat's  note  to  Lyfe  of  Joseph 
of  Arimathea,  EETS.,  42,  73,  74),  and  of  course  makes  the  Grail 
connection  more  probable. 

124  The  ballad  in  its  present  form  is  apparently,  especially  in 
the  later  version,  a  Marian  lament.     If  it  grew  originally  out  of 
Grail  tradition,  the  weeping  maiden  would  naturally  suggest  the 
Virgin  weeping  for  her  Son. 
15 


220  THE    LEGEND    OF    LONGINUS 

count  in  the  consideration  of  Professor  Golther's  con- 
jecture that  the  figure  on  the  bier  in  the  Grail  Castle 
symbolizes  the  wounded  Christ,  and  that  the  whole  Grail 
rite  is  meant  to  explain  to  the  initiate  the  sacrificial,  ex- 
piatory death  of  the  Savior,  and  the  mystery  of  eternal 
spiritual  existence,  Christ  himself  being  the  life-princi- 
ple, and  his  blood,  in  consequence,  the  living  food  of 
redeemed  man. 

Many  points  in  this  discussion  are  of  course  tenta- 
tive. Too  little  is  as  yet  known  about  the  history  of  the 
early  church,  its  rites  and  customs,  to  make  positive  as- 
sertion in  all  cases  possible.  But  where  there  exist  so 
many  similarities  between  conceptions  current  among  the 
early  Christians  and  preceding  non-Christian  ideas  and 
usages,  it  is  clearly  not  safe  to  assume  that  such  Chris- 
tian coloring  as  is  now  evident  in  the  Grail  legend,  be- 
cause of  its  apparent  confusion  with  what  we  are  ac- 
customed to  call  non-Christian  feeling,  is  therefore  su- 
perficial and  a  late  accretion.  The  heathen  color  is  as- 
suredly there,  but  in  all  probability  it  entered  with  the 
early  Christian  conceptions  which  had  embodied  much 
of  such  tradition.  The  contention  of  the  present  study, 
then,  is  simply  that  though  parallels  undoubtedly  exist 
between  the  bleeding  lance  of  the  Grail  romances  and  hea- 
then magic  weapons,  and  though  reflections  of  agrarian 
rites  can  definitely  be  pointed  out  in  the  Grail  ceremony, 
since  the  Christian  spear  had  by  the  time  of  Crestien  ac- 
quired many  of  these  mai*vellous  properties,  and  since  the 
Christian  liturgy  had  most  certainly  taken  over — in  more 
or  less  confused  and  modified  form,  it  is  true — many  of 
the  precedent  Mediterranean  ritual  conceptions,  it  seems 
unnecessary  to  go  back  of  Christian  tradition  for  adequate 
explanation  of  Grail  imagery. 


THE    LANCE    OF    LONGINUS    AND    THE    GKAIL  221 

It  is  to  be  noted,  however,  tliat  wliat  lias  already  been 
pointed  out  in  the  case  of  the  bleeding  spear  is  also  true 
of  the  whole  Grail  rite.  Professor  Brown's  heathen 
parallels  account  for  the  spear  of  the  Grail  ceremony  only 
in  part.  He  considers  its  power  to  avenge  and  to  destroy, 
but  neglects  its  equally  manifest  ability  to  bring  peace  and 
life.  The  heathen  corresponding  rites  in  somewhat  the 
same  way — though  here  the  parallel  is  less  close  because  of 
the  nobility  of  some  of  the  precedent  ideas — fail  to  account 
entirely  for  the  high  degree  of  spiritualization  found  in 
the  Christian  Grail  ceremony.  The  Christian  customs  re- 
flected in  the  Grail  legends  are  traceable  as  we  have  seen, 
in  the  sixth  century,  and  perhaps  are  even  earlier.  The 
conclusion  to  which  this  evidence  appears  to  lead  is,  that 
the  part  of  the  Perceval  story  that  deals  with  the  Grail 
probably  took  form  long  before  Crestien,  Wolfram,  or  even 
Bleheris  made  use  of  it  in  romance. 


<,  i 


'f- 


T^    *«»    ^  oiafif^r* 


•% 


mmm->'' 


BOSTON  UNIVERSITY  ^^^^ 

''%K9^'nVofLong,nusm,ecc,es,a^ 


1    17n    DDD'^B    a  137 


