Hammond,  James  Henry,  1807  -  1864. 

Gov.  Hammond's  letters  on  southern  slavery: 

Addressed  to  Thomas  Clarkson,  the  English 

abolitionist.  [Charleston,  1845] 


GOV.  HAMMOND'S  LETTERS 

ON 

SOUTHERN    SLAVERY: 

ADDRESSED  TO  THOiMAS  CLARKSON, 


THE    ENGLISH    ABOLITIOMST. 


No.  1. 


Introduction — the.  Slave  Trade,  and  futile  attempts  to  abolish  it — Prescriptive 
Right — Slavery  in  the  Abstract — in  its  Moral  and  Religious  Aspect — in  its  Po^ 
litical  Inpiences,  as  affecting  Public  Order,  and  the  Safety  and  Power  of  the 
State. 

'  Silver  Bluff,  S.  C,  Jan.  28,  1845. 
Sir  : — I  received  a  short  time  ago,  a  letter  from  the  Rev.  Willoughby  M. 
Dickinson,  dated  at  your  residence,  "Playford  Hail,  near  Ipswich,  26th  Nov.,  1844," 
in  which  was  enclosed  a  copy  of  your  Circular  Letter  addressed  to  professing 
Christians  in  our  Northern  States,  having  no  concern  with  Slavery,  and  to  others 
there.  I  presume  that  Mr.  Dickinson's  letter  was  written  with  your  knowledge 
and  the  document  enclosed  with  your  consent  and  approbation.  I  therefore  feel  that 
there  is  no  impropriety  in  my  addressing  my  reply  directly  to  yourself,  especially  as 
there  is  nothing  in  Mr.  Dickinson's  communication  requiring  serious  notice. — 
Having  abundant  leisure,  it  will  be  a  recreation  to  me  to  devote  a  portion  of  it  to 
an  examination  and  free  discussion  of  the  question  of  Slavery  as  it  exists  in  our 
Southern  States:  and  since  you  have  thrown  down  the  gauntlet  to  me,  I  do  not 
hesitate  to  take  it  up. 

Familiar  as  you  have  been  with  the  discussions  of  this  subject  in  all  its  aspects, 
and  under  all  the  excitements  it  has  occasioned  for  sixty  years  past,  I  may  not  be 
able  to  present  much  that  will  be  new  to  you.  Nor  ought  I  to  indulge  the  hope  of 
materially  affecting  the  opinions  you  have  so  long  cherished,  and  so  zealously  pro- 
mulgated. Still  lime  and  experience  have  developed  facts,  constantly  furnishing  fresh 
tests  to  opinions  formed  sixty  years  since,  and  continually  placing  this  great  question 
in  points  of  view,  which  could  scarcely  occur  to  the  most  consummate  intellect  even 
a  quarter  of  a  century  ago:  and  which  may  not  have  occurred  yet  to  those  whose 
previous  convictions,  prejudices  and  habits  of  thought  have  thoroughly  and  perma- 
nently biased  them  to  one  fixed  way  of  looking  at  the  matter:  While  there  are  pe- 
culiarities in  the  operation  of  every  social  system,  and  special  local  as  well  as  moral 
causes  materially  affecting  it  which  no  one,  placed  at  the  distance  you  are  from  us, 
can  fully  comprehend  or  properly  appreciate.  Besides,  it  may  be  possibl}^  a  novelty 
to  you  to  encounter  one  who  conscientiously  Vjelieves  the  domestic  Slavery  of  these 
States  to  be  not  only  an  inexorable  necessity  for  the  present,  but  a  moral  and  hu- 
mane institution,  productive  of  the  greatest  political  and  social  advantages,  and  who 
is  disposed  as  I  am,  to  defend  it  on  these  grounds. 

I  do  not  propose,  however,  to  defend  the  African  Slave  Trade.  That  is  no  longer 
a  question.     Doubtless  great  evils  arise  from  it  as  it  has  been,  and  is  now  conducted: 


2  Gov.  Hammonas  Letters  on  Souf/wm  Slaveiy. 

uiinecesstiry  wars  and  cruel  kidnapping  in  Africa:  the  most  shocking  barbarities  in 
the  Middle  Passage:  and  perhaps  a  less  humane  system  of  slavery  in  countries  con- 
tinually supplied  with  fresh  laborers  at  a  cheap  rate.  The  evils  of  it,  however,  it 
may  be  fairly  presumed,  are  greatly  exaggerated.  And  if  I  might  judge  of  the  truth 
of  transactions  stated  as  occuring  in  this  trade,  by  that  of  those  reported  as  trans- 
piring among  us,  I  should  nut  ln.'sitate  to  say  that  a  large  proportion  of  the  stories  in 
circulation  are  unfounded,  and  most  of  the  remainder  highly  colored. 

On  the  passage  of  the  Act  of  i*arliament  pr(diii)iting  this  trade  to  British  subjects 
rests  what  you  esteem  ihe  glory  of  your  life.  It  re([uired  twenty  years  of  arduous 
agitation,  and  the  intervening  extraordinary  political  events,  to  convince  your  coun- 
trymen, and  among  the  rest  your  pious  King,  of  the  expediency  of  this  measure: 
and  it  is  but  just  to  say,  that  no  individual  rendered  more  essential  service  to  the  cause 
than  you  did.  In  reflecting  on  the  subject,  you  must  often  ask  yourself:  What 
alter  all  has  been  accomplished;  how  much  himian  sullering  has  been  averted;  how 
many  human  beings  have  been  rescued  from  transatlantic  slavery?  And  on  the  an- 
swers you  can  give  these  questions,  must  in  a  great  measure  I  presume,  depend  the 
happiness  of  your  life.  In  framing  them,  how  frequently  must  you  be  reminded  of 
the  remark  of  Mr.  Grosvenor,  in  one  of  the  early  debates  upon  the  subject,  which 
I  believe  you  have  yourself  recorded,  "that  he  had  twenty  o])jections  to  the  abolition 
of  the  Slave  Tiade:  the  first  was,  (hat  it  vas  impossible — the  rest  he  need  not 
give."  Can  you  say  to  yourself,  or  to  the  world,  that  thh  first  objection  of  Mr. 
Grosvenor  has  been  yet  confuted?  It  was  estimated  at  the  commencement  of  your 
agitation  in  1787,  that  forty-five  thousand  Africans  were  annually  transported  to 
America  and  the  West  Indies.  And  the  mortality  of  the  Middle  Passage,  computed 
by  some  at  5,  is  now  admitted  not  to  have  exceeded  9  per  cent.  Notwithstanding 
your  Act  of  Parliament,  the  previous  abolition  by  the  United  States,  and  that  all  the 
powers  in  the  world  have  subsequently  prohibited  this  trade — some  of  the  graatest 
of  them  declaring  it  piracy,  and  covering  the  African  seas  with  armed  vessels  to 
prevent  it — Sir  Thomas  Fowel  Buxton,  a  coadjutor  of  yours,  declared  in  1840,  that 
the  number  of  Africans  now  annually  sold  into  slavery  l)eyond  the  sea,  amounts,  at 
the  very  least,  to  one  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  souls;  while  the  mortality  of  the 
Middle  Passage  has  increased,  in  consequence  of  the  measures  taken  to  suppress 
the  trade,  to  25  or  30  per  cent.  And  of  the  one  hundred  and  fifty  thousnnd  slaves 
who  have  been  captured  and  liberated  by  British  men  of  war  since  the  passage  of 
your  Act.  Judge  Jay,  an  American  abolitionist,  asserts  that  one  hundred  thousand,  or 
two-thirds,  have  perished  between  their  capture  and  liberation.  Does  it  not  really 
seem  that  Mr.  Grosvenor  was  a  prophet?  That  though  nearly  all  the  "impossibili- 
ties"  of  1787  have  vanished,  and  become  as  familiar  /):/c/.?  as  our  household  customs, 
under  the  magic  influence  of  steam,  cotton  and  universal  peace,  yet  this  wonderful 
prophecy  still  stands,  def\  ing  tiiiit;  and  the  energy  and  genius  of  mankind.  Thou- 
sands of  valuable  lives  and  fifty  millions  of  pounds  sterling  have  been  given  away  by 
your  government  in  fi uitless  attemp.s  to  overturn  it.  I  hope  you  have  not  lived  too 
long  for  your  own  happiness,  though  you  have  been  spared  to  see  that  in  spite  of  all 
your  toil  and  tho.se  of  your  fellow  laborers,  and  the  accomplishment  of  all  that  human 
agency  could  do,  the  African  Slave  Trade  has  increa.sed  three-fold  under  your  own 
?yes — more  rapidly,  perhaps,  than  any  other  ancient  branch  of  commerce — and  that 
your  efforts  to  suppress  it,  have  effected  nothing  more  than  a  three-f()ld  increase  of 
its  horrors.  'J'here  is  a  God  who  rules  this  world — all  powerfiil — far-seeing.  He 
does  not  permit  His  creatures  to  fijil  His  designs.  It  is  He  who,  for  His  allwise, 
though  to  us  oflen  inscrutable  purposes,  throws  ''imposibilities"  in  the  way  of  our 
fondest  hopes  and  most  strenuous  exertions.      Can  you  doubt  tbis.^ 

Experience  having  settled  the  |)oint,  that  this  Trade  cannot  be  abolished  by  the 
tise  of  force,  and  that  blockading  squadrons  serve  only  to  make  it  more  profitable  and 
more  cruel,  I  am  surprised  that  the  attempt  is  persisted  in,  unless  as  it  serves  as  a 
cloak  to  some  other  purposes.  It  would  be  far  better  than  it  now  is,  tor  the  African, 
if  the  trade  was  free  from  all  restrictions,  and  left  to  the  mitigation  and  decay  which 
time  and  competition  would  surely  Ijring  about.  If  kidnap[)ing,  both  secretly  and 
by  war  made  for  the  purpose,  could  bo  by  any  means  prevented  in  Africa,  the  next 


I 

^f  Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  uii  Southern  Slavoy.  3 

,  greatest  blessing  you  could  bestow  upon  that  country,  would  be  to  transport  its  ac 
V,  tual  slaves  in  comfortable  vessels  across  the  Atlantic.  Though  they  might  be  per- 
v;  petual  bondsmen,  still  they  would  emerge  from  darkness  into  light — from  barbarism 
^   to  civilization — from  idolatry  to  Christianity — in  short  from  death  to  life. 

But  let  us  leave  the  African  slave  trade,  wliich  has  so  signally  defeated  the  Phi- 
lanthropy of  the  world,  and  turn  to  American  slavery,  to  which  you  have  now  di- 
rected your  attention,  and  against  which  a  crusade  has  been  preached  as  enthusiastic 
and  ferocious  as  that  of  Peter  the  Hermit — destined,  I  believe,  to  be  about  as  suc- 
cessful. And  here  let  me  say,  there  is  not  avast  difference  between  the  two,  though 
you  may  not  acknowledge  it.  The  wisdom  of  ages  has  concurred  in  the  justice  and 
expediency  of  establishing  rights  by  prescriptive  use,  however  tortious  in  their  ori- 
gin they  may  have  been.  Yon  would  deem  a  man  insane  whose  keen  sense  of  equi- 
ty would  lead  him  to  denounce  your  right  to  the  lands  you  hold,  and  which 
perhaps  you  inherited  from  a  long  line  of  ancestry,  1)ecau.se  your  title  was  derived 
from  a  Saxon  or  Norman  conqueror,  and  your  lands  were  originally  wrested  by 
violence  from  the  vanquished  Briton^;.  And  so  would  the  New  England  Abolitionist 
regard  any  one  who  would  insist  that  he  should  restore  his  farm  to  the  descendants 
of  the  slaughtered  Red  men,  to  whom,  God  has  as  clearlv  given  it,  as  he  gave  life 
and  freedom  to  the  kidnapped  African.  That  time  does  not  consecrate  wrong,  is  a 
fallacy  which  all  history  exposes;  and  which  the  best  and  wisest  men  of  all  ages 
and  professions  of  religious  faith,  have  practically  denied.  The  means,  therefore, 
whatever  they  may  have  been,  by  which  the  African  race  now  in  this  country,  have 
been  reduced  to  slavery,  cannot  affect  us,  since  they  are  our  property,  as  your  land  is 
yours,  by  inheritance  or  purchase  and  prescriptive  right.  You  will  say  that  man 
cannot  hold  properly  in  man.  The  answer  is.  that  he  can,  and  actually  does  hold 
property  in  his  fellow  all  the  world  over,  in  a  variety  of  forms,  and  has  always  done 
30.     I  will  show  presently  his  authority  for  doing  it. 

If  you  were  to  ask  me  whether  I  was  an  advocate  of  slavery  in  the  abstract,  I 
should  probably  answer,  that  I  am  not,  according  to  my  understanding  of  the  question. 
I  do  not  like  to  deal  in  abstractions;  it  seldom  leads  to  any  useful  ends.  There  are 
few  universal  truths.  I  do  not  now  remember  any  single  moral  truth  universally  ac- 
knowledged. We  have  no  assurance  that  it  is  given  to  our  finite  understanding  to 
Comprehend  abstract  moral  truth.  Apart  from  Revelation  and  the  Inspired  writings, 
what  ideas  should  we  have  even  of  God,  Salvation  and  Immortality?  Let  the  Heathen 
answer.  Justice  itself  is  impalpable  as  an  abstraction,  and  abstract  liberty  the  mer- 
est phantasy  that  ever  amused  the  imagination.  This  world  was  made  for  man,  and 
man  for  the  world  as  it  is.  Ourselves,  our  relations  with  one  another,  and  with  all 
matter,  are  real,  not  ideal.  I  might  say  that  I  am  no  more  in  favor  of  slavery  in  the 
abstract,  than  I  am  of  povery,  disease,  deformity,  idiocy  or  any  other  inequality  in 
the  condition  of  the  human  family;  that  I  love  perfection,  and  think  I  should  enjoy  a 
Milleniutn  such  as  God  has  promised.  But  what  would  it  amount  to?  A  pledge  that 
I  would  join  you  to  set  about  eradicating  those  apparently  inevitable  evils  of  our  na- 
ture, in  equalizing  the  condition  of  all  mankind,  consummating  the  perfection  of  our 
race,  and  introducing  the  Millenium?  By  no  means.  To  effect  these  things  belongs 
exclusively  to  a  higher  power,  and  would  be  well  for  us  to  leave  the  Almighty  to 
perfect  His  own  works  and  fulfil  His  own  covenants.  Especially,  as  the  history  of 
all  the  past  shows  how  entirely  futile  all  human  efforts  have  proved,  when  made  for 
the  purpose  of  aiding  Him  in  carrying  out  even  His  revealed  designs,  and  how  inva- 
rially  he  has  accomplished  them  by  unconscious  instruments,  and  in  the  face  of  human 
expectation.  Nay  more,  that  every  attempt  which  has  been  made  by  fallible  man 
to  extort  from  the  world  obedience  to  his  "abstract"  notions  of  right  and  wrong,  has 
been  invariably  attended  with  calamities,  dire  and  extended,  just  in  proportion  to  the 
breadth  and  vigor  of  the  movement.  On  slavery  in  the  abstract  then,  it  would  not 
be  amiss  to  have  as  little  as  possible  to  say.  Let  us  contemplate  it  as  it  is.  And 
thus  contemplating  it,  the  first  question  we  have  to  ask  ourselves  is,  whether  it  is  con- 
trary to  the  Will  of  God,  as  revealed  to  us  in  His  holy  scriptures — the  only  certain 
means  given  us  to  ascertain  His  will.  If  it  is,  then  slavery  is  a  sin;  and  I  admit  at 
once  that  every  man  is  bound  to  set  his  face  against  it,  and  to  emancipate  his  slaves, 
should  he  hold  any. 


4  Gov  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

Let  us  open  these  holy  scriptures.  In  the  20th  chapter  of  Exorlus,  17th  verse,  I 
find  the  following  words:  "Thou  shall  not  covet  thy  neighbor's  house,  thou  shalt  not 
covet  thy  neighbor's  wife,  nor  his  man  servant,  nor  his  maid  servant,  nor  his  ox,  nor 
his  ass,  nor  any  tiling  that  is  thy  neighbors" — which  is  the  Tentii  of  those  command- 
ments which  declare  the  essential  principles  of  the  great  nxjral  law.  delivered  to 
Moses  by  (Jod  himself  Now,  disregarding  all  technical  and  verbal  quibbling,  as 
who![y  unworthy  to  be  used  in  interpreting  the  Word  of  God,  what  is  the  plain  mean- 
ing, undoubted  intent,  and  true  spirit  of  this  couunandnieni?  Does  it  not  emphat 
ically  and  explicitly  forbid  you  to  disturb  your  neighbor  in  the  enjoyment  of  his  pro- 
perty; and  more  especially  of  that  which  is  here  specifically  mentioned  as  being  law. 
fully  and  by  this  commandment  made  sacredly  his/  Prominent  in  the  catalogue 
stands  his  "man  servant  and  his  maid  servant,"  who  are  thus  distinctly  consecrated  as 
his  property  and  guarantied  to  him  (or  his  exclusive  benetit  in  the  most  solemn  man- 
ner.  You  attempt  to  revert  the  otherwise  irresistible  conclusion,  that  slavery  was 
thus  ordained  by  God,  by  declaring  that  the  word  "slave"  is  not  used  here,  and  is  not 
to  be  found  in  the  Bible.  And  I  have  seen  many  learned  dissertations  on  this  point 
trom  Abolition  pens.  It  is  well  known  that  both  the  Hebrew  and  Greek  words 
translated  "servant"  in  the  scripture,  mean  also  and  most  usually  "slave."  The  use 
of  the  one  word  instead  of  the  other,  was  a  mere  matter  of  taste  with  the  translators 
of  the  Bilile,  as  it  has  been  with  all  the  commentators  and  religious  writers,  the  latter 
of  whom  have  I  believe  tor  the  most  part  adopted  the  term  "slave,"  or  used  both 
terms  indescriminately.  If  then,  these  Hebrew  and  Greek  words  include  the  idea  of 
both  systems  of  servitude,  the  conditional  and  unconditional,  they  should,  as  the  ma- 
jor includes  the  minor  propositions,  be  always  translated  "slaves,"  unless  the  sense 
of  the  whole  text  forbiils  it.  The  real  question  then,  is,  what  idea  is  intended  to  be 
conveyed  by  the  words  used  in  the  commandment  quoted?  And  it  is  clear  to  my 
mind  that  as  no  limitation  is  affixed  to  them,  and  the  express  intention  was  to  secure 
to  mankind  the  peaceful  enjoyment  of  every  species  of  property,  that  the  terms  "meu 
servants  and  maid  servants"  include  all  classes  of  servants,  and  establish  a  lawful 
exclusive  and  indefeasible  interest  equally  in  the  "Hebrew  brother  who  shall  go  out 
in  the  seventh  year,"  and  "the  yearly  hired  servant,"  and  "those  purchased  from  the 
heathen  round  about,"  who  were  to  be  "bond-men  forever,"  as  the  property  of  their 
fellow  man.  You  cannot  deny  that  there  were  among  the  Hebrews  "Bond-men  for- 
ever." You  cannot  deny  that  God  especially  authorised  his  chosen  people  to  pur- 
chase "Bond-men  forevor"  from  the  Heathen,  as  recorded  in  the  2")th  chapter  of 
Leviticus,  and  that  they  are  there  designated  by  the  very  Hebrew  word  used  in  the 
Tenth  commandment.  Nor  can  you  deny  that  a  "Bond-man  for  ever"  is  a  "slave;" 
yet  you  endeavor  to  hang  an  argument  of  immortal  consequence  upon  the  wretched 
subterfuge,  that  the  precise  word  "slave"  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  translation  of  the 
Bible;  as  if  the  translators  were  canonical  expounders  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and 
their  words,  not  God's  meaning,  must  be  regarded  as  His  revelation. 

It  is  vain  to  look  to  Christ  or  any  of  his  Apostles  to  justify  such  blasphemous  per- 
versions of  the  word  of  God  Although  slavery  in  its  most  revolting  form  was  every 
where  visible  around  them,  no  visionary  notions  of  piety  or  philanthropy  ever  tempt- 
ed them  to  gainsay  the  law,  even  to  mitigate  the  cruel  severity  of  the  existing  sys- 
tem. On  the  contrary,  regarding  slavery  as  an  established  as  well  as  inevitable  con- 
dition of  human  society,  they  never  hinted  at  such  a  thing  as  its  termination  on  earth, 
any  more  than  that  "the  poor  may  cease  out  of  the  land,"  which  God  affirms  to  Moses 
shall  never  be:  and  they  "exhort  all  servants  under  the  yoke,'*  to  "count  their  mas- 
ters as  worthy  of  all  honor:"  "to  obey  them  in  all  things  according  to  the  flesh;  not 
with  eye-service  as  men  pleasers,  but  in  singleness  of  heart,  fearing  God:"  "not  only 
the  good  and  gentle,  but  also  the  froward:"  '-for  what  glory  is  it  if  when  ye  are  buf- 
feted for  your  I'aults,  ye  shall  take  it  patiently?  but  if  when  ye  do  well  and  suffer  for 
it  ye  take  it  patiently,  this  is  acceptable  of  (iod."  St.  Paul  actually  apprehended  a 
runaway  slave  and  sent  him  to  his  master!  Instead  of  deriving  from  the  Gospel  any 
sanction  for  the  work  you  have  undertaken,  it  woidd  beditficult  to  imagine  sentiments 
and  conduct  more  striking  in  contrast  than  those  of  the  Apostles  and  Abolitionists. 

It  is  impossible   therefore  to  suppose  that  slavery  is  contrary  to  the  will  of  God. 


Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  5 

It  is  equally  absurd  to  say  that  American  slavery  differs  in  form  or  principle  from 
that  of  the  chosen  people.  We  accept  the  Bible  terms  as  the  definition  of  our  slavery, 
and  its  precepts  as  the  guide  of  our  conduct.  We  desire  nothing  more.  Even  the 
right  to  "buffet,"  which  is  esteemed  so  shocUing,  finds  its  express  license  in  the  gos- 
pel.  1  Pet.  ii.  20.  Nay,  what  is  more,  God  directs  the  Hebrews  to  "bore  holes  in 
the  ears  of  their  brothers"  to  inark  them,  when  under  certain  circumstances  they  be- 
come  pet'petual  slaves:   Ex.  xxi.  0. 

I  think,  then,  I  may  safely  conclude,  and  I  tirmly  believe,  that  American  slavery 
is  not  only  not  a  sin,  but  especially  commanded  by  God  through  Moses, and  approved 
by  Christ  through  his  apostles.  And  here  I  might  close  its  defence;  for  what  God 
ordained  and  Christ  sanctifies,  should  surely  command  the  respect  and  toleration  of 
man.  But  I  fear  theie  has  grown  up  in  our  time  a  Transcendental  Religion  which 
is  throwing  even  Transcendental  Philosophy  into  the  shade;  a  religion  too  pure  and 
elevated  for  the  Bible;  which  seeks  to  erect  among  men  a  higher  standard  of  morals 
than  the  Almighty  has  revealed  or  our  Saviour  preached,  and  which  is  probably  des. 
tined  to  do  more  t»  impede  the  extension  of  God's  Kingdom  on  earth  than  all  the 
Infidels  who  have  ever  lived.  Error  is  error.  It  is  as  dangerous  to  deviate  to  the  right 
hand  a.sto  the  left.  And  when  men  professing  to  be  holy  men,  and  who  are  by  num- 
bers so  regarded,  declare  those  things  to  be  sinful  which  our  Creator  has  expressly 
authorized  and  instituted,  they  do  more  to  destroy  his  authority  among  mankind  than 
the  most  wicked  can  affect  by  proclaiming  that  to  be  innocent  which  He  has  forbid- 
den. To  this  self-righteous  and  self-exalted  class  belong  all  the  Abolitionists  whose 
writings  I  have  read.  With  them  it  is  no  end  of  the  argument  to  prove  your  propo- 
sitions by  the  test  of  the  Bible,  interpreted  according  to  its  plain  and  palpable  mean- 
ing, and  as  understood  by  all  mankind  for  three  thousand  years  before  their  time. 
They  are  more  ingenious  in  construing  and  interpolating  to  accommodate  it  to  their 
new-fangled  and  etherial  code  of  morals,  than  ever  were  Voltaire  or  Hume  in  picking, 
it  to  pieces  to  free  the  world  from  what  they  considered  a  delusion.  When  the  Abo- 
litionists proclaim  ''man-stealing"  to  be  a  sin,  and  show  me  that  it  is  so  written  down 
by  God,  I  admit  them  to  be  right,  and  shudder  at  the  idea  of  such  a  crime.  But  when 
I  show  them  that  to  hold  "bond-men  forever"  is  ordained  by  God,  they  deny  the 
Bible,  and  set  up  in  its  place  a  Late  of  their  own  making.  I  must  then  cease  to  rea- 
son with  them  on  this  branch  of  the  question.  Our  religion  differs  as  widely  as  our 
manners.     The  (ireat  Judge  in  our  day  of  final  account  must  decide  between  us. 

Turning  from  the  consideration  of  slave-holding  in  its  relations  to  man  as  an  ac- 
countable being,  let  us  examine  it  in  its  influence  on  his  political  and  social  state. 
Though,  being  foreigners  to  us,  you  are  in  no  wise  entitled  to  interfere  with  the 
civil  institutions  of  this  country;  it  has  become  quite  common  for  your  countrymen  to 
decry  slavery  as  an  enormous  political  evil  to  us,  and  even  to  declare  that  our  North- 
ern States  ought  to  withdraw  from  the  Confederacy  rather  than  continue  to  be  con- 
taminated by  it.  The  American  Abolitionists  appear  to  concur  fully  in  these  senti- 
ments, and  a  portion  at  least  of  them  are  incessantly  threatening  to  dissolve  the 
Union.  Nor  should  I  be  at  all  surprised  if  they  succeed.  It  would  not  be  difficult 
in  mv  opinion,  to  conjecture  wiiich  region,  the  North  or  the  South,  would  suffer  most 
by  such  an  event.  For  one,  I  should  not  object,  by  any  means,  to  cast  my  lot  in  a 
confederacy  of  States  Vvdiose  citizens  might  ail  be  slave-holders.  I  indorse  without 
reserve,  the  much  abused  sentiment  of  Gov.  M'Duffie,  that  "slavery  is  the  corner 
stone  of  our  republican  edifice;"  while  I  repudiate,  as  ridiculously  absurd,  that  much 
lauded  but  no  where  accredited  dogma,  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  that  '"all  men  are  born 
equal."  No  Society  has  ever  yet  existed,  and  I  have  already  incidentally  quoted  the 
highest  authority  to  show  that  none  ever  will  exist,  without  a  natural  variety  of  class- 
es. The  most  marked  of  these  must  in  a  country  like  ours,  be  the  rich  and  the 
poor,  the  educated  and  the  ignorant.  It  will  scarcely  be  disputed  that  the  very  poor 
have  less  leisure  to  prepare  themselves  for  the  proper  discharge  of  public  duties  than 
the  rich;  and  that  the  ignorant  are  wholly  unlit  lor  ihem  at  all.  In  all  countries  save 
ours,  these  two  classes,  or  the  poor  rather,  who  are  presumed  to  be  necessarily  igno- 
rant, are  by  law  expressly  excluded  from  all  participation  in  the  management  of 
public  affairs.     In  a  repudlican  Government  this  cannot  be  done.      Universal  suffrage, 


6  God.  Hammonds  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

though  not  essential  in  theory,  Reem<*  to  he  in  fact,  a  necessary  appendage  to  a  repub- 
lican system.  WIumc  universal  suirraf^c  ol)tains,  it  is  obvious  that  the  Government 
is  in  the  hands  of  a  numerical  mijority;  and  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  say,  that  in 
every  part  oftlie  world  more  than  half  the  people  are  ignorant  and  poor.  Though  no 
one  can  look  upon  poverty  as  a  crime,  and  we  do  not  generally  hero  regard  it  as  any 
objection  to  a  man  in  his  individual  capacity,  still  it  must  bo  admitted  that  it  is  a 
wretched  and  insecure  government  which  is  administered  by  its  most  ignorant  citi- 
zens, ami  those  who  have  the  least  at  stake  under  it.  Though  intelligence  and 
wealth  have  great  influence  here  as  everywhere,  in  keeping  in  check  reckless  and 
unenlightened  numbers,  yet  it  is  evident  to  close  observers,  if  not  to  all,  that  these  are 
rapidly  usurping  all  power  in  the  non-slave-holding  States,  and  threaten  a  fearful 
crisis  in  Republican  Institutions  there  at  no  remote  period.  In  the  slave-holding 
States,  however,  nearly  one  half  of  the  whole  population,  and  those  the  poorest  and 
most  ignorant,  have  no  political  influence  whatever,  because  they  are  slaves.  Of 
the  other  halt',  a  large  proportion  are  both  educated  and  independent  in  their  circum- 
stances, while  those  who  unfortunately  are  not  so,  being  still  elevated  far  above  the 
mass,  are  higher  toned  and  more  deeply  interested  in  preserving  a  stable  and  well 
ordered  government,  than  the  same  class  in  any  other  country.  Hence,  slavery  is 
tnily  the  "corner  stone"  and  foundation  of  every  well  designed  and  durable  "Repub- 
lican edifice." 

With  us.  every  citizen  is  concerned  in  the  maintenance  ol  order,  and  in  promoting 
honesty  and  industry  among  those  of  the  lowest  class  who  are  our  slaves;  and  our 
habitual  vigilance  renders  standing  armies,  whether  of  soldiers  or  policemen,  entire- 
ly unnecessary.  Small  guards  in  our  cities,  and  occasional  patrols  in  the  country, 
ensure  us  a  repose  and  security  known  nowhere  else.  You  cannot  be  ignorant  that 
excepting  the  United  States,  there  is  no  country  in  the  world  whose  existing  Govern- 
ment would  not  be  overturned  in  a  month,  l)ut  for  its  standing  armies,  maintained  at 
an  enormous  and  destructive  cost  to  those  whom  they  are  destined  to  over-awe — so 
rampant  and  combatant  is  the  spirit  of  discontent  wherever  nominal  Free  labor  pre- 
▼ails,  with  its  extensive  privileges  and  itsdismal  servitude.  Nor  will  it  be  long  before 
the  "Frep  .S7a^e,s-"  of  this  Union  will  be  compelled  to  introduce  the  same  expensive 
machinery  to  preserve  order  among  their  "free  and  equal"  citizens.  Already  has 
Philadelphia  organized  a  permanent  Battalion  for  this  purpose:  New  York,  Boston 
and  Cincinnati  will  soon  fijllow  her  e.\am[)le:  and  then  the  smaller  towns  and  dense- 
ly populated  counties.  The  intervention  of  the  militia  to  repress  violations  of  the 
peace  is  becoming  a  daily  affair.  A  strong  Government,  after  some  of  the  old  fashions 
— though  probably  with  a  new  name — sustained  by  the  force  of  armed  mercenaries, 
is  the  ultimate  destiny  of  the  nonslave-holding  section  of  this  confederacy,  and  one 
which  may  not  be  very  distant. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  suppose,  as  is  generally  done  abroad,  that  in  case  of  war 
slavery  would  be  a  source  of  weakness.  It  did  not  weaken  Rome,  nor  Athens,  nor 
Sparta,  though  their  slaves  were  comparatively  far  more  numerous  than  ours,  of  the 
same  color  for  the  most  part  with  themselves,  and  large  numbers  of  them  familiar  with 
the  use  ofarms.  I  have  no  apprehension  that  our  slaves  would  seize  such  an  oppor- 
fimitv  to  revolt.  The  present  generation,  of  them  born  among  us,  would  never  think 
of  such  a  thing  at  any  time,  unless  instigated  to  it  by  others.  Against  such  instigations 
we  are  on  our  guard.  In  time  of  war  we  should  l)e  more  watchful  and  better  prepared  to 
put  down  insurrections  than  at  any  other  periods.  Should  any  foreign  nation  be  so  lost 
to  every  sentiment  of  civilized  humanity,  as  to  attempt  to  erect  among  u  •;  the  standard 
of  revolt,  or  to  invade  us  with  Black  Troops,  for  the  base  and  barbarous  purpose  of 
stirring  up  servile  war,  their  efforts  would  be  signally  rebuked.  Our  slaves  could  not 
be  easily  seduced,  nor  would  any  thing  delight  them  more  than  to  assist  in  stripping 
Cuffee  of  his  regimentals  to  put  him  in  the  eotton-field,  which  would  be  the  fate  of 
most  invaders,  without  any  very  prolix  form  of  "apprenticeship."  If,  as  I  am  satisfied 
would  be  the  case,  our  slaves  remained  peacefully  on  our  plantations,  and  cultivated 
them  in  time  of  war,  undc-  the  superintendance  of  a  limited  numlter  of  our  citizens,  it 
is  obvious  that  we  could  put  forth  lucuc  strength  in  such  an  emergency,  at  less  sacrifice, 
than  any  other  people  of  the  same  numbers.  And  thus  we  should  in  every  point  of 
view,  "out  of  this  nettle  danger,  pluck  the  flower  of  safety." 


Gov.  ffammond's  Letters  on  Soutliern  Slavery.  7 

How  far  slavery  may  he  an  advantagp  or  disadvantage  to  those  not  owning  slave?, 
yet  united  with  us  in  political  associations,  is  a  question  ^ov  their  sole  consideration. 
It  is  true  that  our  Representation  in  Congress  is  increased  by  it.  But  so  are  our 
Taxes;  and  the  non-slave-holding  States  being  the  majority,  divide  among  themselves 
far  the  greater  portion  of  the  amount  levied  by  the  Federal  Government.  And  I 
doubt  not  that  when  it  comes  to  a  close  calculation,  they  will  not  be  slow  in  finding 
out  that  the  balance  of  profit  arising  from  the  connection  is  vastly  in  their  favor. 


j\o.  3. 

Slavery  in  its  Social  Effects — Duelling — Mohs — Repudiation — Licentiousness.  Com- 
parative Expense  of  Free  and  Slave  Labor.  Treatment  of  Slaves — Instruction — 
Ptmishments. 

In  a  social  point  of  view,  the  Abolitionists  pronounce  slavery  to  be  a  monstrous 
enl.  If  it  was  so,  it  would  be  our  own  peculiar  concern,  and  superfluous  benevolence 
in  them  to  lament  over  it.  Seeing  their  bitter  hostility  to  us,  however,  they  might  leave 
us  to  cope  with  our  own  calamities.  But  they  make  war  upon  us  out  of  excess  of 
charity,  and  attempt  to  purify  us  by  covering  us  with  calumny.  You  have  read  and 
assisted  to  circulate  a  great  deal  about  affrays,  duels  and  murders  occurring  here,  and 
all  attributed  to  the  terrible  demoralization  of  slavery.  Not  a  single  event  of  this 
sort  takes  place  among  us,  but  it  is  caught  up  by  the  Aljolitionists  and  paraded  over 
the  world  with  endless  comments,  variations  and  exaggerations.  You  should  not 
take  what  reaches  you  as  a  mere  sample,  and  infer  that  there  is  a  vast  deal  more  that 
you  never  hear.     You  hear  all,  and  more  than  all  the  truth. 

It  is  true  that  the  point  of  honor  is  recognized  throughout  the  slave  region,  and  the 
disputes  of  certain  classes  are  frequently  referred  for  adjustment  to  the  "trial  by 
combat."  It  would  not  be  appropriate  for  me  to  enter,  in  this  letter,  into  a  defence 
of  the  practice  of  duelling,  nor  to  maintain  at  length  that  it  does  not  tarnish  the  char- 
acter of  a  people  to  acknowledge  a  standard  of  honor.  Whatever  evils  may  arise 
from  them,  however,  they  cannot  he  attributed  to  slavery,  since  the  same  notion  and 
custom  prevails  both  in  France  and  England.  Few  of  your  Prime  Ministers,  of  the 
last  half  century  even,  have  escaped  the  contagion,  I  believe.  The  affrays,  of  which 
so  much  is  said,  and  in  which  rifles,  bowie-knives  and  pistols  are  so  prominent,  oc- 
cur mostly  in  the  Frontier  States  of  the  South- West.  They  arc  naturally  inciden- 
tal to  the  condition  of  society,  as  it  exists  in  many  sections  of  these  recently  settled 
countries,  and  will  as  naturally  cease  in  due  time.  Adventurers  from  the  older 
States  and  from  Europe,  as  desperate  in  character  as  they  are  in  fijrtune,  congre- 
gate in  these  wild  regions,  jostling  one  another  and  often  forcing  the  peaceable 
and  honest  into  rencounters  in  self-defence.  Slavery  has  nothing  to  do  with  these 
things.  Stability  and  peace  is  the  first  desires  of  every  slave-holder,  and  the  true 
tendency  of  the  system.  It  could  not  possibly  exist  amid  the  eternal  anarchy  and 
civil  broils  of  the  ancient  Spanish  dominions  in  America.  And  for  this  very  reason, 
domestic  slavery  has  ceasecl  there.  So  far  from  encouraging  strife,  such  scenes  of 
riot  and  bloodshed  as  have  within  the  few  years  disgraced  our  Northern  cities,  and 
as  you  have  lately  witnessed  in  Birtningham,  and  Bristol,  and  Wales,  not  only  never 
have  occurred,  but  I  will  venture  to  say  never  will  occur  in  our  slaveholding  States. 
The  only  thing  that  can  create  a  mol)  (as  you  might  call  it)  here,  is  the  appearance 
of  an  Abolitionist  whom  the  people  assemble  to  chastise.  And  this  is  no  more  of  a 
mob,  than  a  rally  of  shepherds  to  chase  a  wolfout  of  their  pastures,  would  be  one. 

But  we  are  swindlers  and  rejjudiators  !  Pennsylvania  is  not  a  slave  State.  A  ma- 
jority of  the  States  which  have  liiiledto  meet  their  obligations  punctually  are  non- 
slaveholding;  and  two-thirds  the  debt  said  to  be  repudiated  is  owed  by  these  States. 
Many  of  the  States  of  this  Union  are  heavily  encumbered  with  debt — none  so  hope- 
lessly  as  England.  Pennsylvania  owes  $22  for  each  inhabitant — England,  8222, 
counting  her  paupers  in.  Nor  has  there  been  any  repudiation  definite  and  final,  of 
a  lawful  debt,  that  I  am  aware  of.  A  few  States  have  failed  to  pay  some  instal- 
ments of  interest.     The  extraordinary  financial    difflculties    which  occurred  a  few 


8  Gov.  f/dfiimond's  Letteis  on  Southern  Slavery. 

years  ago  account  for  it.  Time  will  set  all  things  right  again.  Every  dollar,  of 
l>oth  principal  and  interest,  owed  by  any  State,  North  or  South,  will  be  ultimately 
paid,  unless  the  dboUtion  of  slaveri/  overwhdm  us  in  one  common  n/j/j.  But  have  no 
other  nations  failed  to  pay?  When  were  the  French  Assignats  redeemed?  How 
much  interest  did  your  National  Bank  pay  on  its  immense  circulation  from  1797  to 
1821,  during  which  period,  that  circulation  was  inconvertilile,  aw]  for  the  time 
repudiated.^  How  much  of  your  National  Debt  has  been  incurred  for  money  bor- 
rowed to  meet  the  interest  on  it,  thus  avoiding  delinquency  in  detail,  by  insuring  in- 
OTitable  bankruptcy  and  repudiation  in  the  end?  And  what  sort  of  operation  was 
that  by  which  your  present  .Ministry  recently  expunged  a  handsome  amount  of  that 
debt  by  substituting,  through  a  process  just,  not  compulsory,  one  species  of  security 
for  another?  I  am  well  aware  that  the  taults  of  others  do  not  excuse  our  own,  but 
when  failings  are  charged  to  slavery,  which  are  shown  to  occur  to  equal  extent 
where  it  does  not  exist,  surely  slavery  must  be  acquited  of  the  accusation. 

It  is  roundly  asserted,  that  wo  are  not  so  well  educated  nor  so  religious  here  as 
elsewhere.  I  will  not  go  into  tedious  satistical  statements  on  these  subjects.  Nor 
have  I,  to  tell  the  truth,  much  confidence  in  the  details  of  what  are  commonly  set 
forth  as  statistics.  As  to  education,  you  will  probably  admit  that  slaveholders  should 
have  more  leisure  for  mental  culture  than  most  people.  And  I  believe  it  is  charged 
against  them  that  they  :irc  peculiarly  fond  of  power,  and  ambitious  of  honors.  If  this 
be  so,  as  all  the  power  and  honors  of  this  country  are  won  mainly  by  intellectual 
superiority,  it  might  be  fairly  presumed  that  slaveholders  would  not  be  neglectful  of 
education.  In  proof  of  the  accuracy  of  this  presumption,  I  point  you  to  the  facts,  that 
our  Presidential  chair  has  been  occupied  for  forty-four  out  of  fifty-six  years  by  slave- 
holders; that  another  has  been  recently  elected  to  fill  it  for  four  more,  over  an  oppo- 
nent who  was  a  slaveholder  also;  and  that  in  the  Federal  offices  and  both  Houses  of 
Congress  considerally  more  than  a  due  proportion  of  those  acknowledged  to  stand 
in  the  first  rank  are  from  the  South.  In  this  arena  the  intellects  of  the  free  and 
slave  States  meet  in  full  and  fair  competition.  Nature  must  have  been  unusually 
bountiful  to  us,  or  we ''ave  been  at  least  reasonably  assiduous  in  the  cultivation  ot 
such  gifts  as  she  has  bestowed — unless  indeed  you  refer  our  superiority  to  moral 
qualities,  which  I  am  sure  j/om  will  not.  More  wealthy  we  are  not;  nor  would  mere 
wealth  avail  in  such  rivalry. 

The  piety  of  the  South  is  unobtrusive.  We  think  it  proves  but  little,  though  it  is 
a  confident  thing  for  a  man  to  claim  that  he  stands  higher  in  the  estimation  of  his 
Creator,  and  is  less  a  sinner  than  his  neighbor.  If  vociferation  is  to  ca;ry  the  ques- 
tion of  religion,  the  North  and  probably  the  Scotch  have  it.  Our  sects  are  few, 
harmonious,  pretty  much  united  among  themselves,  and  pursue  their  vocations  in  hum- 
ble peace.  In  fact  our  professors  of  religion  seem  to  think — whether  correctly  or 
not — that  it  is  their  duty  "to  do  good  in  secret,"  and  to  carry  their  holy  comforts  to  the 
heart  of  each  individual,  without  reference  to  class  or  ro/or.  for  his  special  enjoyment, 
and  not  with  a  view  to  exhibit  their  zeal  before  the  world.  So  far  as  numbers  are 
concerned,  I  believe  our  clergymen,  when  called  on  to  make  a  showing,  have  never 
had  occasion  to  blush,  if  comparisons  Mere  drawn  between  the  free  and  slave  States. 
And  although  our  presses  do  not  team  with  controversial  pamphlets,  nor  our  pulpits 
shake  with  excommunicating  thunders,  the  daily  walk  of  our  religious  communicants 
furnishes  apparently  as  little  foml  for  gossip  as  is  to  be  found  in  most  other  religions. 
It  may  be  regarded  as  a  mark  of  our  want  of  excitability — though  that  is  a  quality  ac- 
credited to  us  in  an  eminentdegree — that  few  of  the  remarkable  religious  Isms  of  the 
present  day  have  taken  root  among  us.  We  have  been  so  irreverent  as  to  laugh  at 
.Mormonism  and  Millerism,  which  have  created  such  commotions  farther  North;  and 
modern  Prophets  have  no  honor  in  our  country.  Shakers,  Rappists,  Dunkers,  Social- 
ists, Fourrierists  and  the  like  keep  themselves  afar  off.  Even  Pu>eyism  has  not  yet 
moved  us.  You  may  attribute  this  to  our  domestic  slavery  if  you  chose.  I  believe 
yon  would  do  so  justly.   There  is  no  material  here  for  such  charncters  to  operate  upon 

But  vour  grand  charge  is  that  licentiousness  in  intercourse  between  the  sexes  is  a 
prominent  trait  of  <uir  social  system,  and  that  it  necessarily  arises  from  .slavery.  This 
iB  a  favorite  theme  with  the  Abolitionists,  male  and  female.     Folios  have  been  writ- 


Gofv.  Haminond!s  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  9 

ten  on  it.  It  is  a  common  observation,  that  there  is  no  subject  of  which  ladies  of 
eminent  virtue  so  much  delight  to  dwell,  and  on  which  in  especial  learned  old  maids, 
like  Miss  Martineau,  linger  with  such  an  insatiable  relish.  They  expose  it  in  the 
Slave  States  with  the  most  minute  observance  and  endless  iteration.  Miss  Martineau 
with  peculiar  gusto,  relates  a  series  of  scandalous  stories  which  would  have  made 
Boccacio  jealous  of  her  pen,  but  which  are  so  ridiculously  false,  as  to  leave  no  doubt 
that  some  wicked  wag,  knowing  she  would  write  a  book,  has  furnished  her  materials 
— a  game  too  often  played  on  Tourists  in  this  country.  The  constant  recurrence  of 
the  female  Abolitionists  to  this  topic,  and  their  bitterness  in  regard  to  it,  cannot  fail 
to  suggest  to  even  the  most  charitable  mind,  that 

"Such  rage  without,  betrays  the  fires  within." 

Nor  arc  their  immaculate  coadjutors  of  the  other  se.x,  though  perhaps  less  specific 
in  their  charges,  less  violent  in  their  denunciations.  But  recently  in  your  Island  a 
clergyman  has,  at  a  public  meeting,  stigmatized  the  whole  Slave  region  as  a  "Brothel." 
Do  these  people  thus  ca.st  stones  being  "without  sin"?     Or  do  they  only 

''Compound  for  sins  they  are  inclined  to, 

By  damning  those  they  have  no  mind  to." 

Alas  that  David  and  Solomon  .should  be  allowed  to  repose  in  peace — that  Leo  should 
be  almost  canonized,  and  Luther  more  than  sainted;  that  in  our  own  day  courtezans 
should  be  formally  licensed  in  Paris,  and  tenements  in  London  rented  for  years  to 
women  of  the  town  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Bishop 
— and  the  poor  Slave  States  of  America  alone  pounced  upon  and  offered  up  as  a 
holocaust  on  the  Altar  of  Immaculateness  to  atone  for  the  abuse  of  natural  instinct 
by  all  mankind;  and  if  not  actually  consumed,  at  least  exposed,  anathemized  and 
held  up  to  scorn,  by  those  who 

"write, 
Or  with  a  Rival's  or  an  Eunuch's  spite." 

But  I  do  not  intend  to  admit  that  this  charge  is  just  or  true.  VVithout  meaning  to 
proiess  uncommon  modesty,  I  will  say  that  I  wish  thi  -  to\nc  could  be  avoided. 
I  am  of  opinion,  and  I  doubt  not  every  right-minded  man  will  concur,  that  the  public 
e.xposure  and  discussion  of  this  vice,  even  to  rebuke,  invariably  does  more  harm  than 
good;  and  that  if  it  cannot  be  checked,  by  instilling  pure  and  virtuous  sentiments,  it 
is  far  WDpse  than  useless  to  attempt  to  do  it,  by  exhibiting  its  defbrmitie.s.  I  may  not, 
however,  pass  it  over;  nor  ought  I  feel  any  delicacy  in  examining  a  question  to 
which  the  Slave-holder  is  invited  and  challenged  by  Clergymen  and  Virgins.  So 
far  from  allowing,  then,  that  licentiousness  pervades  this  region,  I  broadly  assert, 
and  I  refer  to  the  records  of  the  Courts,  to  the  public  press,  and  to  the  knowledge  of 
all  who  have  ever  lired  here,  that  among  our  white  population,  there  are  fewer  cases 
of  divorce,  separation,  crim  con,  seduction,  rape  and  bastardy,  than  among  any  other 
five  millions  of  people  on  the  civilized  earth.  And  this  fact  1  believe  will  be  con- 
ceded by  the  Abolitionists  of  this  country  themselves.  I  am  almost  willinf  to  refer 
it  to  them  and  submit  to  their  decision  on  it.  I  would  not  hesitate  to  do  so  if  I 
thought  them  capable  of  an  imp?.rtial  judgment  on  any  matter  where  Slavery  is  in 
question.  But  it  is  said,  that  the  licentiousness  consists  in  the  constant  intercourse 
between  white  males  and  colored  females.  One  of  your  heavy  charges  against  us 
has  been  that  we  regard  and  treat  these  people  as  brutes;  you  now  charge  us  with 
habitually  taking  them  to  our  bosoms.  I  will  not  comment  on  the  inconsistency  of 
these  accusations.  I  will  not  deny  that  some  intercourse  of  the  sort  does  take  place. 
Its  character  and  extent,  however,  are  grossly  and  atrociously  exaggerated.  No 
authority,  divine  or  human,  has  yet  been  found  .sufficient  to  arrest  all  such  irregularities 
among  men.  But  it  is  a  known  fact,  that  they  are  perpetrated  here,  for  the  most  part 
in  the  cities.  Very  few  inulatoes  are  reared  on  our  plantations.  In  the  cities  a 
large  proportion  of  the  inhabitants  do  not  own  slaves.  A  still  larger  proportion  are 
natives  of  the  North  or  foreigners.  They  should  share,  and  justly,  too,  an  equal  part 
in  this  sin  with  the  Slave-holders.  Facts  caimot  be  ascertained,  or  I  doubt  not,  it 
wouUl  appear  that  they  are  the  chief  oflenders.  If  the  truth  be  otherwise,  that  per- 
sons from  abroad  have  stronger  prejudices  against  the  African  race  than  we  have. 


10  Gov.  Hammond^s  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  it  is  well  known  that  this  intercourse  is  regarded  in  our  society  as 
highly  disreputahlo.  If  carried  on  habitually,  it  seriously  affects  a  man's  standing, 
80  far  as  it  is  known;  and  he  who  takes  a  colored  mistress — with  rare  and  extraor- 
dinary exceptions — loses  caste  at  once.  You  will  say  that  one  exception  should  damn 
our  whole  country.  How  much  less  criminal  is  it  to  take  a  white  mistress!  In  your 
eyes  it  should  he  at  least  an  equal  ollence.  Yet  look  around  you  at  home,  from  the 
cottage  to  the  throne,  and  count  how  many  mistresses  are  kept  in  unblushin''  noto- 
riety,  without  any  loss  of  caste.  Such  cases  are  almost  unknown  here,  and  down  even 
to  the  very  lowest  walks  of  life  it  is  almost  invariably  fatal  to  a  man's  position  and  pros- 
pects to  keep  a  mistress  o|)enly  whether  white  or  black.  What  Miss  Martineau  re- 
lates of  a  young  man's  purchasing  a  colored  concubine  from  a  lady  and  avowing  his 
designs,  is  too  absurd  even  for  contradiction.  No  person  would  dare  to  allude  to 
such  a  subject  in  such  a  manner  to  any  decent  female  in  this  country.  If  he  did,  he 
■would  be  li/nrhed — doubtless  with  your  approbation. 

After  all,  however,  the  number  ot  the  mixed  breed  in  proportion  to  that  of  the 
black  is  infuiitely  small,  and  out  of  the  towns  next  to  nothing.  And  when  it  is  con- 
sidered that  the  AtVican  race  has  been  among  us  tor  two  hundred  years,  and  that 
those  of  the  mixed  breed  continually  intermarry — often  rearing  large  families — it  is 
a  decided  proof  of  our  continence  that  so  few  comparatively  are  to  be  found.  Our 
misfortunes  are  two-fold.  From  the  prolific  propagation  of  these  mongrels  among 
themselves,  we  are  liable  to  be  charged  by  tourists  with  delinquences  where  none 
have  been  committed,  while,  where  one  has  been,  it  cannot  be  concealed.  Color 
marks  indellibly  the  offence,  and  reveals  it  to  every  eye.  Conceive  that,  even  in 
your  virtuous  and  polished  country,  if  every  bastard  through  all  the  circles  of  your  so- 
cial system  was  thus  branded  by  nature  and  known  to  all,  what  shocking  developments 
might  there  not  be?  How  little  indignation  might  your  saints  have  to  spare  lor  the 
licentiousness  of  the  slave  region.  But  I  have  done  with  this  disgusting  topic.  And  I 
think  I  may  justly  conclude,  aller  all  the  scandalous  charges  which  tea-table  gossip  and 
long-gowned  hypocrisy  have  brought  against  the  slave-holders,  that  a  people  whose 
men  are  proverbially  brave,  intellectual  and  hospitable,  and  whose  women  are  unaf- 
fectedlv  chaste,  devoted  to  domestic  life  and  happy  in  it,  can  neither  be  degraded  nor 
demoralized,  whatever  their  institutions  may  l)e.  My  decided  opinion  is,  that  our 
system  of  slavery  contiibutes  largely  to  the  development  and  culture  of  these  high  and 
noble  qualities. 

In  an  economical  point  of  view — which  I  will  not  omit — Slavery  presents  some 
difficulties.  As  a  general  rule,  I  agree  it  must  be  admitted,  that  free  labor  is  cheaper 
than  slave  labor.  It  is  a  taliacy  to  suppose  that  ours  is  unpaid  labor.  The  slave 
himself  must  be  paid  for,  and  thus  his  labor  is  all  purchased  ai  once,  and  for  no  trifling 
sum.  His  |)rice  was  in  the  first  place  paid  mostly  to  your  countrymen,  and  assisted 
in  building  up  some  of  those  colossal  English  fortunes  since  illustrated  by  patents  of 
ivobility,  and  splendid  piles  of  architecture,  stained  and  cemented,  if  you  like  the  ex- 
pression, with  the  blood  of  kidnapped  innocents;  but  loaded  with  no  heavier  curse 
than  Abolition  and  its  begotten  fanaticisms  have  brought  upon  your  land — some  of 
them  fulfilled,  some  yet  to  be.  But  besides  the  first  cost  of  the  slave,  he  must  be  fed 
and  clothed:  well  ted  and  well  clothed,  if  not  for  humanity's  sake,  that  he  may  do 
good  work,  retain  health  and  life,  and  rear  a  family  to  supply  his  place.  When  old 
or  sick,  he  is  a  clear  expense,  and  so  is  the  helpless  portion  of  hi*  family.  No  poor 
law  provides  for  him  when  unable  to  work,  or  brings  up  his  children  for  our  service 
when  we  need  them.  These  are  all  heavy  charges  on  slave  labor.  Hence,  in  all 
countries  where  the  denseness  of  the  population  has  reduced  it  to  a  matter  of  perfect 
certainty  tli  .t  labor  can  be  obtained  whenever  wanted,  and  the  laborer  be  forced  by 
sheer  necessity  tf)  hire  for  the  small  pittance  that  will  keep  soul  and  body  together, 
and  rags  upon  his  back  while  in  actual  employment,  dependant  at  all  other  times  on 
alms  or  poor  rates;  in  all  such  countries  it  is  found  cheaper  to  pay  this  pittance  than 
to  clothe,  feed,  nurse,  support  through  childhood,  and  pension  in  old  age  a  race  of 
slaves.  Indeed,  the  advantage  is  so  great  as  speedily  to  compensate  lor  the  loss  of 
the  value  of  the  slave.  And  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying,  that  if  I  could  cultivate 
my  lands  on   these  terms,  I  would   without  a  word  resign   my  slaves,   provided  they 


Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  11 

could  be  properly  disposed  of.  But  the  question  is,  whether  free  or  slave  labor  is 
cheapest  to  us  iti  this  country  at  this  lime,  situated  as  we  are.  And  it  is  decided  at 
once  by  the  fact,  that  we  cannot  avail  ourselves  of  any  other  than  slave  labor.  We 
neither  have  nor  can  we  procure  other  labor  to  any  extent,  or  on  any  thing  like  the 
terms  mentioned.  We  must  therefore  content  ourselves  with  our  dear  labor,  under 
the  consoling  reflection  that  what  is  lost  to  us,  is  gain  to  humanity;  and  that  inas- 
much as  our  .slave  costs  us  more  than  your  free  man  costs  you,  by  so  much  is  ho 
better  ofT  You  will  promptly  say,  emancipate  your  slaves,  and  then  you  will  have 
free  labor  on  suitable  terms.  That  might  be,  if  there  were  five  hundred  where 
there  is  now  one,  and  the  continent,  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific,  was  as  densely 
populated  as  your  Island.  But  until  that  comes  to  pass,  no  labor  can  be  procured  in 
America  on  the  terms  you  have  it. 

While  I  thus  freely  admit  that  to  the  individual  proprietor  slave  labor  is  dearer 
than  free,  I  do  not  mean  to  admit  it  as  equally  clear  that  it,  is  dearer  to  the  communi- 
ty and  to  the  State.  Though  it  is  certain  that  the  slave  is  a  far  greater  consumer 
than  your  laborer,  the  year  round,  yet  your  pauper  system  is  costly  and  wasteful. 
Supported  by  j'our  community  at  large,  it  is  not  administered  by  your  hired  agents 
with  that  interested  care  and  economy — not  to  speak  of  humanity — whicii  mark  the 
management  of  ours  by  each  proprietor  for  his  non-efTectivws.  and  is  both  more  ex- 
pensive to  those  who  pay,  and  less  beneficial  to  those  who  receive  its  bounties.  Be- 
sides this.  Slavery  is  rapidly  filling  up  our  country  with  a  hardy  and  healthy  race, 
peculiarly  adapted  to  our  climate  and  productions,  and  conferring  signal  political  and 
social  advantages  on  us  as  a  people,  to  which  I  have  already  referred. 

I  have  yet  to  reply  to  the  main  ground  on  which  you  and  your  coadjutors  rely  for 
the  overthrow  of  our  system  of  slavery.  Failing  in  all  your  attempts  to  prove  that  it 
is  sinful  in  its  nature,  immoral  in  its  effects,  a  political  evil,  and  profitless  to  those 
who  maintain  it,  you  appeal  to  the  sympathies  of  mankind,  and  attempt  to  arouse  the 
world  against  us  by  the  most  shocking  charges  of  tyranny  and  cruelty.  You  begin 
by  a  vehement  denunciation  of  "the  irresponsible  power  of  ono  man  over  his  fellow- 
men."  The  question  of  the  responsibility  of  power  is  a  vast  one.  If  i.'^  the  great 
political  question  of  modern  times.  Whole  nations  divide  off  upon  it  and  establish 
ditrurent  fundamental  systems  of  government.  That  "responsibility,"  which  to  one 
set  of  millions  seems  amply  sufficient  to  check  the  government,  to  the  support  of 
which  they  devote  their  lives  and  fmtunes,  appears  to  another  set  of  millions  a  mere 
mockery  of  restraint.  And  accordingly  as  the  opinions  of  these  millions  differ,  they 
honor  each  other  with  the  epithets  of  "Serfs'"  or  "Anarchists."  It  is  ridiculous  to 
introduce  such  an  idea  as  this  into  the  discussion  of  a  mere  Domestic  Institution. 
But  since  you  have  introduced  it,  I  deny  that  the  power  of  the  slaveholder  in  America 
is  "irresponsible."  lie  is  responsible  to  God.  He  is  responsible  to  the  world — a 
responsibility  which  Abolitionists  do  not  intend  to  allow  him  to  evade — and  in  acknow- 
ledgment of  which  I  write  you  this  letter,  lie  is  responsible  to  the  community  in 
which  he  lives,  and  to  the  laws  under  which  he  enjoys  his  civil  rights.  Those  laws 
do  not  permit  him  to  kil,  to  maim,  or  to  punish  beyond  certain  limits,  or  to  overtask 
or  to  refuse  to  feed  and  clothe  his  slave.  In  short,  they  forbid  him  to  be  tyrannical 
or  cruel.  If  any  of  these  laws  have  grown  obselete,  it  is  because  they  are  so  seldom 
violated  that  then'  are  forgotten.  You  have  disinterred  one  of  them  from  a  compila- 
tion  by  some  Judge  Stroud,  of  Pliilapelphia,  to  sligm?.lize  its  inadequate  penalties  tor 
killing,  maiming,  &c.  Your  objects  appears  to  be — you  can  have  no  other — to  pro- 
duce ilu;  impression  that  it  must  be  often  violated  on  account  of  its  insufficiency.  You 
say  as  much,  and  that  it  marks  our  estimate  of  the  slave.  You  forget  to  state  that  this 
law  was  enacted  by  Englishmen,  and  only  indicates  their  opinion  of  the  reparation 
due  for  these  offences.  Ours  is  proved  by  the  fact,  though  perhaps  unknown  to  .ludge 
Striud  or  yourself,  that  we  have  essentially  alt(n*ed  this  law;  and  the  murder  of  a 
slave  lias  for  many  years  b(!(^n  punishable  with  death  in  this  State.  And  so  it  is,  I 
belicv(j,  in  most  or  all  tlu;  siavu  States.  You  seem  well  aware,  however,  that  laws 
have  been  recently  passed  in  all  these  States  making  it  penal  to  tench  slaves  to  read. 
Do  you  know  what  occasioned  their  passage,  and  renders  their  stringent  enforcement 
necessary.     I  can  toll  you:  it  was  the  abolition  agitation.     If  the  slave  is  not  allowed 


12  God.  Hammond! s  Letters  on  Southern  Slaveiy. 

to  read  his  Bible,  the  sin  rests  upon  the  Abolitionists;  for  ihey  stand  prepared  to  fur- 
nisli  him  with  u  key  to  it,  which  would  make  it,  not  a  book  of  hope  and  love  and  peace, 
but  of  desj>air,  hatred  and  blood;  which  would  convert  the  reader,  not  into  a  Chris- 
tian,  but  a  Demon.  To  preserve  him  from  such  a  horrid  destiny,  it  is  a  sacred  duty 
which  we  owe  to  slaves,  not  less  than  to  ourselves,  to  interpose  the  most  decisive 
means.  If  the  Catholics  deem  \x  wrong  to  trust  the  Bible  to  the  hands  of  ignorance, 
shall  wc  be  excommunicated  because  we  will  not  give  and  with  it  the  corrupt  and  fa- 
tal commentaries  of  the  Abolitionists,  to  our  slaves?  Allow  our  slaves  to  read  your 
pnn)phlets,  stimulating  them  to  cut  our  throats!  Can  you  believe  us  to  be  such  un- 
speakable fools. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  can  subscribe  in  full  to  the  sentiment  so  often  quoted  by  the 
Abolitionists,  and  by  Mr.  Dickenson  in  his  letter  to  me:  ^^Homo  sum  et  nihil  human- 
um  a  me  alieniim  puto,"  as  translated  and  practically  illustrated  by  them.  Such  a 
doctrine  would  give  wide  authority  to  everyone  for  the  most  dangerous  intermeddling 
wiih  the  allairs  of  others.  It  will  do  in  poetry — perhaps  in  some  sort  of  philosophy; 
but  the  attempt  to  make  it  a  household  maxim,  and  introduce  it  into  the  daily  walks 
of  life,  has  caused  many  an  "Homo"  a  broken  crown;  and  probably  will  continue  to 
do  it.  Still  though  a  slaveholder,  I  freely  acknowledge  my  obligations  as  a  man; 
and  that  I  am  bound  to  treat  humanely  the  fellow  creatures  whom  God  has  trusted  to 
my  charge.  I  feel  therefore  somewhat  sensitive  under  the  accusation  of  cruelty,  and 
dis()0sed  to  defend  myself  and  fellow  slaveholders  against  it.  It  is  certainly  the  in- 
terest of  all,  and  I  am  convinced  that  it  is  also  the  desire  of  every  one  of  us, to  treat  our 
slaves  with  proper  kindness.  It  is  necessary  to  our  deriving  the  greatest  amount  of 
profit  from  them.  Of  this  we  are  all  satisfied.  And  you  snatch  from  us  the  only 
consolation  we  Americans  could  derive  from  the  approbi  ions  imputation  of  being 
wholly  devoted  to  making  money,  which  your  disinterested  and  gold-despising  coun- 
trymen delight  to  cast  upon  us,  when  you  nevertheless  declare,  that  we  arc  ready  to 
sacrifice  it  for  the  pleasure  of  being  inhuman.  You  remember  that  Mr.  Pitt,  could 
never  get  over  the  idea  that  self-interest  would  insure  kind  treatment  to  slaves,  until 
vou  told  him  your  woful  stories  of  the  Middle  Passage.  Mr.  Pitt  was  right  in  the 
first  instance,  and  erred,  under  your  tuition,  in  not  perceiving  the  difference  between 
a  temporary  and  permanent  ownership  of  them.  Slave-holders  are  no  more  perfect 
than  other  men.  They  havt  passions.  Some  of  them  as  you  may  suppose,  do  not 
at  all  times  restrain  them.  Neither  do  husbands,  parents  and  friends.  And  in  each 
of  thetje  relations,  as  serious  sulFeringsas  frequently  arise  from  uncontrolled  passions 
as  ever  does  in  that  of  master  and  slave,  and  with  as  little  chance  of  indemnity.  Yet 
you  would  not  on  that  account  break  them  up.  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that 
out  slave  holders  are  as  kind  masters,  as  men  usually  are  kind  husbands,  parents  and 
friends — as  a  general  rule,  kinder.  A  bad  master — he  who  overworks  his  slaves, 
provides  illy  for  them,  or  treats  them  with  undue  severity — loses  the  esteem  and  res- 
pect  of  his  fellow  citizens  to  as  great  an  extent,  as  he  would  for  the  violation  of  any 
of  his  social  and  most  of  his  moral  obligations.  What  the  most  perfect  plan  of 
management  would  be  is  a  problem  hard  to  solve.  From  the  commencement  of  sla- 
very  in  this  country,  this  subject  has  occupied  the  minds  of  all  slave-holders,  as 
much  as  the  improvement  of  the  general  condition  of  mankind  has  those  of  the  most 
ardent  Philanthropists;  and  the  greatest  progressive  amelioration  of  the  system  has 
been  efl'ected.  You  yourself  acknowledge  that  in  the  early  part  of  your  career  you 
were  exceedingly  anxious  for  the  immediate  abolition  of  the  slave  trade,  last  thost; 
engaged  in  it  siioulJ  so  mitigate  its  evils  as  to  destroy  the  force  of  your  arguments 
and  I'acts.  The  improvement  you  then  dreaded  has  gone  on  steadily  here,  and 
would  doubtless  have  taken  place  in  the  slave  trade  but  lor  the  measures  adopted  to 
suppress  it 

Of  late  vcars  we  have  been  not  oidy  annoyed,  but  generally  greatly  embrirrassed 
in  this  matter,  by  the  abolitionists.  We  have  been  compelled  to  curtail  some  privi- 
leges;  we  have  bemi  debarred  from  granting  new  ones.  In  the  face  of  discussion, 
which  aim  at  loosening  all  ties  between  master  and  slave,  we  have  in  some  measure 
to  abandon  our  efforts  to  attach  ihom  to  us  and  control  them  through  their  affections 
and  pride.     We  havu  to  rely  more  and  more  on  the  power  of  fear.     We   must  in  all 


Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  13 

our  Intercourse  with  them  assert  and  maintain  strict  mastery,  and  impress  it  on  them 
that  they  are  slaves.  This  is  painfu)  to  us,  and  certainly  no  present  cdvantage  to 
them.  But  it  is  the  direct  consequence  of  the  aholiliun  agitation.  We  arc  determined 
to  continue  masters,  and  to  do  so  we  have  to  draw  the  rein  tighter  and  tighter  day  by 
day,  to  be  assmed  tliat  we  keep  them  in  complete  clieck.  How  far  this  process 
will  go  on  depends  wholly  and  solely  on  the  abolitionists.  When  they  desist  we  can 
relax.  We  may  not  before.  I  do  not  mean  by  all  this,  to  say  that  we  are  in  a  state 
of  actual  alaru)  and  fear  of  our  slaves;  but  under  existing  circumstances,  we  should 
be  ineffably  stupid  not  to  increase  our  vigilance  and  strengthen  our  hands.  You  see 
some  of  the  fruits  of  your  labors.  1  speak  freely  and  candidly — not  as  a  colonist, 
who,  though  a  slave-holder  has  a  master;  but  as  a  free  white  man,  hulding  under 
God,  and  resolved  to  hold,  my  fate  in  my  own  hands;  and  I  assure  you  ihal  my  sen- 
timents  and  feelings  and  determinations  are  those  of  every  slave-holder  in  this  country. 
The  research  and  ingenuity  of  the  Abolitionists,  aided  by  t!'e  invention  of  runaway 
slaves — in  which  faculty,  so  far  as  improvising  falsehood  goes,  tiie  African  race  is 
without  a  rival — have  succeeded  in  shocking  the  world  with  a  small  number  of  pre- 
tended instances  of  our  barbarity.  The  only  wonder  is  that,  considering  the  extent 
of  our  country,  the  variety  of  our  population,  its  fluctuating  character,  and  the  publi- 
city  of  all  our  transactions,  the  number  of  cases  collected  i.s  so  small.  It  soeaks  well 
for  us.  Yet  of  these,  many  are  ialse,  all  highly  colored,  some  occurring  half  a  cen- 
tury, most  of  them  many  years  ago;  and  no  doubt  a  large  proportion  of  them  perpe- 
trated by  foreigners.  With  a  few  rare  exceptions  the  emigrant  Scotch  and  English 
are  the  worst  masters  among  us,  and  next  to  them  our  Northern  fellow  citizens. 
Slave-holders  born  and  bred  here,  are  always  more  humane  to  Slaves,  and  those  who 
have  grown  up  to  a  large  inheritance  of  them,  the  most  eo  of  any — showing  clearly 
that  the  effect  of  the  system,  is  to  foster  kindly  feelings.  I  do  not  mean  so  much  to 
impute  innate  inhumanity  to  foreigners,  as  to  show  that  they  come  here  with  false 
notions  of  the  treatment  usual  and  necessary  for  slaves,  and  that  newly  acquired 
power  here,  as  every  where  else,  is  apt  to  be  abused.  I  cannot  enter  into  a  detailed 
examination  of  the  cases  stated  by  the  Abolitionists.  It  would  be  disgusting  and  of 
little  avail.  I  know  nothing  of  them.  I  have  seen  nothing  like  them,  though  born 
and  bred  hero,  and  have  rarely  heard  of  any  thing  at  all  to  be  compared  with  them. 
Permit  me  to  say  that  I  think  most  of  j/owr  facts  must  have  been  drawn  from  the 
West  Indies,  where  undoubtedly  slaves  were  treated  much  more  harshly  than  with 
usl  This  was  owing  to  a  variety  of  causes,  which  might,  if  necessary  be  stated. 
One  was  that  they  had  at  first  to  deal  more  extensively  with  barbarians  fresh  from 
the  wilds  of  Africa;  another,  and  a  leading  one,  the  absenteeism  of  Proprietors.  Agents 
are  always  more  unfeeling  than  owners,  whether  placed  over  West  Indian,  or  Ame- 
rican Slaves,  or  Irish  Tenantry.  We  feel  this  evil  greatly,  even  here.  You  des- 
cribe the  use  of  ihicmb  screws  as  one  mode  of  punishment  among  us.  I  doubt  if  a 
thumb  screw  can  bo  found  in  America.  I  never  saw  or  heard  of  one  in  this  country. 
Stocks  are  rarely  used  by  private  individuals,  and  confinement  still  more  seldom, 
though  both  are  common  punishments  for  whites  all  the  world  over.  I  think  they 
should  be  more  frequently  resorted  to  with  slaves,  as  substitutes  for  flogging,  which  I 
consider  the  most  injurious  and  least  efficacious  mode  of  punishing  them  for  serious 
offences.  It  is  not  degrading,  and  unless  excessive,  occasions  little  pain.  You  may 
bo  a  little  astonished,  after  all  the  flourishes  that  have  been  made  about  "cart  whips," 
&c.,  when  I  say  flogging  is  not  the  most  degrading  punishment  in  the  world.  It  may 
be  so  to  a  white  man  in  most  countries,  but  how  is  it  to  the  white  boy?  That  ne- 
cessary coadjutorof  the  school-master,  the  "birch,"'  is  never  thought  to  have  rendered 
infamous  the  unfortunate  victim  of  pedagogue  ire;  nor  did  Solomon  in  his  wisdom 
dream  that  he  was  counst-ling  parents  to  debase  their  offspring,  when  he  exhorted 
them  not  to  spoil  the  child  by  sparing  the  rod.  Pardon  me  for  referring  to  the  now 
exploded  ethics  of  the  Bible.  Custom,  which,  you  will  perhaps  agree,  makes  most 
things  in  this  world  good  or  evil,  has  removed  all  infamy,  from  the  punishment  of  the 
lash  to  the  slave.  Your  blood  boils  at  the  reciial  of  stripes  inflicted  on  a  man;  and 
you  think  you  should  be  frenzied  to  see  your  own  child  flogged.  Yet  see  how  com- 
pletely this  is  ideal,  arising  from  the  fashions  of  society.     You  doubtless  submitted  to 


14  G(n\  Hammonds  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

the  rod  yourself,  in  oilier  years,  when  tlie  smart  was  peiliaps  as  severe  as  it  would 
be  now;  and  you  have  never  been  guilty  of  the  folly  of  revenging  yourself  on  the 
Preceptor,  who  in  the  plenitude  of  his  "irresponsible  power"  thought  proper  to  elms- 
lise  your  son.      So  it  is  with  the  negro,  and  the  negro  father. 

As  to  chains  and  irons,  they  are  rarely  used;  never  1  believe,  except  in  cases  of 
running  away.  You  must  admit  tliat  if  we  pretend  to  own  slaves,  they  must  not  be 
permitted  to  abscond  whenever  they  see  fit;  and  thai  if  nothing  else  will  prevent  it 
these  means  must  be  resorted  to.  Sec  tlie  iniiunianity  necessarily  arising  from  sla- 
very,  you  will  exclaim!  Are  such  restraints  imposed  on  no  other  class  of  people, 
giving  no  more  olFence?  Look  to  your  army  and  navv.  If  your  seamen,  impressed 
from  their  peaceful  occupations,  and  your  soldiers,  recruited  at  the  gin  siiops — belli 
of  them  as  much  kidnapped  as  the  most  unsuspecting  vic»im  of  the  Slave  Trade,  and 
doomed  to  a  far  more  wretched  fate — if  these  men  manifest  a  propensity  to  desert, 
the  heaviest  manacles  are  their  mildest  punishment.  It  is  most  commonly  death, 
after  summary  trial.  But  armies  and  navies  you  say  are  indispensable,  and  must  be 
kept  up  at  every  sacrifice.  I  answer  that  they  are  no  more  indispensable  than  slavery 
is  to  us — and  to  you;  for  you  have  enough  of  it  in  your  own  country,  though  the  form 
and  name  differ  from  ours.  Depend  upon  it  that  many  things,  and  in  regard  to  our 
slaves,  most  things  which  appear  revolting  at  a  distance,  and  to  slight  reflection, 
would  on  a  nearer  view  and  impartial  comparison  with  the  customs  and  conduct  with 
the  rest  of  mankind,  strike  you  in  a  very  ditlerent  light.  Remember  that  on  our 
estates  we  dispense  with  the  whole  machinery  of  public  police  and  public  Courts  of  J 
Justice.  Thus  we  try,  decide  and  execute  the  sentences,  in  thousands  of  cases,  , 
which  in  other  countries  would  go  into  the  Courts.  Hence  most  of  the  acts  of  our  i 
alleged  cruelty,  which  have  any  foundation  in  truth.  Whether  our  Patriarchal  mode 
of  administering  justice  is  less  humane  than  the  Assizes  can  only  be  determined  by 
careful  inquiry  and  comparison.  But  this  is  never  done  by  the  Abolitionists.  All 
our  punishments  are  the  outrages  of  "irresponsible  power."  If  a  man  steals  a  pig  in  • 
England  ho  is  transported — torn  from  wife,  children,  parents,  and  sent  to  the  Anti- 
podes, infamous,  and  an  outcast  forever,  though  perhaps  betook  from  the  superabun- 
dance of  his  neighbor  to  save  the  lives  of  liis  famishing  little  ones.  If  one  of  our  well  ' 
fed  negroes,  merely  for  the  sake  of  fresh  meat,  steals  a  pig,  he  gets  perhaps  forty 
stripes.  If  one  of  your  Cottagers  breaks  into  another's  house,  he  is  hung  for  burglary. 
If  a  slave  does  the  same  here,  a  few  lashes,  or  perhaps  a  few  hours  in  the  stocks, 
settles  the  matter.  Are  our  Courts  or  yours  the  most  humane?  If  slavery  were  not 
in  question,  you  woidd  doubtless  say  ours  is  mistaken  lenity.  Perhaps  it  often  is; 
and  slaves  too  lightly  dealt  with  sometimes  grow  daring.  CJccasionally,  though  rare- 
ly, and  almost  always  in  consequence  of  excessive  indulgence,  an  individual  rebels. 
This  is  the  highest  crime  he  can  commit.  It  is  treason.  It  strikes  at  the  root  of 
our  whole  system.  His  life  is  justly  forfeited,  though  it  is  never  intentionally  taken, 
unless  after  trial  in  our  public  courts.  Sometimes,  however,  in  capturing,  or  in  self- 
defence,  he  is  unfortunately  killed.  A  legal  investigation  always  follows.  But,  ter- 
minate as  it  may,  the  Abolitionists  raise  a  hue  and  cry,  and  another  "shocking  case" 
is  held  up  to  tlie  indignation  of  the  world  by  tender  hearted  male  and  female  Philan- 
thropists, who  would  have  thought  all  right  had  the  master's  throat  been  cut,  and 
would  have  triumphed  in  it. 


No,  3. 

Physical  and  Mural  Contlltion  of  Southern  Slaces  compared  with  English  Labor' 
ers.  Schemes  of  Abolition — '•'■Moral  Suasion'" — Force — Competition  of  Free 
Labor.     The  Grand  Upshot  of  West  Lidia  Emancipation. 

Perhaps  u  few  general  facts  will  best  illustrate  the  treatment  this  race  receives  at 
our  hands.  It  is  acknowledged  thai  it  is  increased  at  least  as  rapidly  as  the  white. 
I  believed  it  is  an  established  principle,  that  population  thrives  in  proportion  to  its 
comforts.  But  when  it  is  considered,  that  these  people  are  not  recruited  by  immi- 
gration  from  abroad  as  the  whites  are,  and  that  they  are  usually  settled  to  our  rich» 


Gov.  Hammonds  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  15 

est  and  least  healthy  lands,  the  fact  of  their  equal  comparative  increase  and  greater 
longevity,  outweighs  a  thousand  abolition  falsehoods,  in  favor  of  the  leniency  and 
providence  of  our  management  of  them.  It  is  also  admitted  that  there  are  incom- 
parably fewer  cases  of  insnnity  and  suicide  among  them  than  among  the  whites. 
The  fact  is,  that  among  the  slaves  of  the  African  race,  these  things  are  almost  wholly 
unknown.  However  frequently  suicide  may  have  been  among  those  brought  from 
Africa,  I  can  say  that  in  my  time,  I  cannot  remember  to  have  known  or  heard  of  a 
single  instance  of  deliberate  self-destruction,  and  but  one  of  suicide  at  ail.  As  to 
insanity,  I  have  seen  but  one  permanent  case  of  it,  and  that  twenty  years  ago.  It 
cannot  be  doubted  that  among  three  millions  of  people  there  must  be  some  insane  and 
some  suicides;  but  I  will  venture  to  say,  that  more  cases  of  both  occur  annually 
among  every  hundred  thousand  of  the  population  of  Great  Britain,  than  among  all 
our  slaves.  Can  it  be  possible,  then,  that  they  exist  in  that  state  of  abject  misery, 
goaded  by  constant  injuries,  outraged  in  their  affections  and  worn  down  with  hard- 
ships, which  the  abolitionists  depict,  and  so  many  ignorant  and  thoughtless  persons  ro- 
ligiously  believe? 

With  regard  to  the  separation  of  husbands  and  wives,  parents  and  children,  no- 
thing can  be  more  untrue  than  the  inferences  drawn  from  what  is  so  constantly 
harped  on  by  abolitionists.  S(jme  painful  instances  perhaps  may  occur:  very  few  that 
can  be  prevented.  It  is  and  always  has  been  an  object  of  prime  consideration  with 
our  slave-holders  to  keep  families  together.  Negroes  are  themselves,  both  per- 
verse and  comparatively  indifferent  about  this  matter.  It  is  a  singular  trait,  that 
they  almost  invariably  prefer  forming  connexions  with  slaves  belonging  to  other  mas- 
ters, and  at  some  distance.  It  is  therefore  impossible  to  prevent  separations  some- 
times, by  the  removal  of  one  owner,  his  death,  or  failure,  and  dispersion  of  his  pro« 
perly.  In  ail  such  cases,  however,  every  reasonable  effort  is  made  to  keep  the  par- 
ties together,  if  they  desire  it.  And  the  negroes  forming  these  connexions,  know, 
ing  the  chances  of  their  premature  dissolution,  rarely  complain  more  than  we  all  du 
of  the  inevitable  strokes  of  fate.  Sometimes  it  happens  that  a  I'.egro  prefers  to  give 
up  his  fomily  ra  her  than  separate  from  his  master.  I  have  known  such  instances- 
As  to  wilfully  selling  off  a  husband,  or  a  wife,  or  child,  I  believe  it  is  rarely,  very 
rarely  done,  except  when  some  offence  has  been  committed  demanding  "transporta- 
tion." At  sales  of  estates,  and  even  at  Sheriff's  sales,  they  are  always,  if  possible, 
sold  in  fomilies.  On  the  whole,  notwithstanding  the  migratory  character  of  our  pop- 
ulation,  I  believe  there  are  more  families  among  our  slaves,  who  have  lived  and  died 
together,  without  loosing  a  single  member  from  their  circle,  except  by  the  process  of 
nature,  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  constant,  uninterrupted  communion,  than  have  flour- 
ished in  the  same  space  of  time  and  among  the  same  number  of  civilized  people  in 
modern  times.  And  to  sum  up  all,  if  pleasure  is  correctly  defined  to  be  the  absence 
of  pain — which  so  far  as  the  great  body  of  mankind  is  concerned,  is  undoubtedly  its 
true  definition — I  believe  our  slaves  are  the  happiest  three  millions  of  human  being3 
on  whom  the  sun  shines.  Into  their  Eden  is  coming  Satan  in  the  guise  of  an  Aboli- 
tionist. 

As  regards  their  religious  condition,  it  is  well  known  that  a  majority  of  the  commu- 
nicants of  Methodist  and  Baptist  Churches  of  the  South  are  colored.  Almost  every- 
where they  have  precisely  the  same  opportunities  of  attending  worship  that  the  whites 
have,  and  besides,  special  occasions  for  themselves  exclusively,  which  they  prefer.  la 
many  places  not  so  accessible  to  clergymen  in  ordinary,  Missionaries  are  sent,  and 
mainly  supported  by  their  masters,  for  the  particular  benefit  of  the  slaves.  There  are 
none  I  imagine  who  may  not  if  they  like,  hear  the  gospel  preached  at  least  once  a  monthj 
most  of  them  twice  a  month,  and  very  many  every  week.  In  our  thinly  settled  coun- 
try the  whiles  fare  no  better.  But  in  addition  to  this,  on  the  plantations  of  any  size 
the  slaves  who  have  joined  the  church  are  formed  into  a  class,  at  the  head  of  which 
is  placed  one  of  their  number,  acting  as  deacon  or  leader,  who  is  also  sometimes  a 
licensed  preacher.  This  class  assembles  for  religious  exercises  weekly,  semi-week- 
ly, or  oftener,  if  the  members  choose.  In  some  parts  also  Sunday  schools  for  blacks 
are  established,  and  Bible  classes  are  orally  instructed  by  discreet  and  pious  persons. 
Now  where  will  you  find  a  laboring  population  possessed  of  greater  religious  advanU. 


16  Gov.  Hainino)ids  Letters  on  SoiUliern  Slavery. 

ges  iliaii  these?  Not  in  London,  I  am  sure,  where  it  is  known  that  your  Churches, 
Chapels  and  Religious  Meeting  Houses,  of  all  sorts,  cannot  contain  one  half  of  the  in- 
liabitants. 

I  have  admitted  without  hesitation,  what  it  would  be  untrue  and  profitle^js  to  deny, 
that  Slave-holders  are  responsible  to  the  world  for  the  humane  treatment  of  the  fellow- 
beings  whom  Gud  placed  in  tlieir  hands.  1  think  it  would  be  only  fair  for  you  to  ad- 
mit, what  is  equally  undeniable,  that  every  man  in  independent  circumstances,  all  the 
world  over,  and  every  government,  is  to  the  same  extent  responsible  to  the  whole  hu- 
man t'amily,  for  the  condition  of  the  poor  and  laboring  classes  in  their  own  country  and 
mound  them,  wherever  ihhy  may  be  placed,  to  whom  God  has  denied  the  advantages 
he  has  given  themselves.  If  so,  it  would  naturally  seem  the  duty  of  true  humanity 
and  rational  philanthropy  to  devote  their  time  and  labor,  their  thoughts,  writings  and 
charity,  first  to  the  objects  placed  as  it  were  under  their  own  immediate  charge.  And 
it  must  be  regarded  as  a  clear  evasion  and  sinful  neglect  of  this  cardinal  duty,  to  pass 
from  those  whose  destitute  situation  ihey  can  plainly  see,  minutely  examine  and  effi- 
ciently relieve,  to  enquire  after  the  condition  of  others  in  no  way  entrusted  to  their 
care,  to  exaggerate  evils  of  which  they  cannot  be  cognizant,  to  expend  all  their  sym- 
pathies and  exhaust  all  their  energies  on  these  remote  objects  of  their  unnatural,  not 
to  say  dangerous,  benevolence;  and  finally,  to  calumniate,  denounce  and  endeavor  to 
excite  the  indignation  of  the  world  against  their  unoflending  fellow  creatures  for  not 
hastening  under  their  dictation  to  redress  wrongs  which  are  stoutly  and  truthfully  de- 
nied, while  they  themselves  go  but  little  farther  in  alleviating  those  chargeable  on 
them,  than  openly  and  unblushingly  to  acknowledge  them.  There  may  be  indeed  a 
sort  of  merit  in  doing  so  much  as  to  make  such  an  acknowledgement,  but  it  must  be 
very  modest  if  it  expects  appreciation. 

Now  I  affirm,  that  in  Great  Britain  the  poor  and  laboring  classes  of  your  own  race 
and  color,  not  only  your  fidlow  beings,  but  your  fellow  citizens,  are  more  miserable 
and  degraded,  morally  and  physicaily,  than  our  slaves;  to  be  elevated  to  the  actual 
condition  of  whom,  would  be  to  ihvsc  your  fellow  citizens  a  most  glorious  act  ol'  eman- 
cipation. And  I  also  affirm,  that  the  poor  and  laboring  classes  of  our  older  Free 
iSiates  would  not  be  in  a  much  more  enviable  condition  but  for  our  slavery.  One  of 
their  own  Senators  has  declared  in  the  United  States  Senate,  "that  the  repeal  of  the 
Tariff  would  reduce  New  England  to  a  howling  wilderness-"  And  the  American 
Tariff  is  nei*her  more  nor  less  than  a  system  by  which  the  Slave  States  are  plundered 
for  the  benefit  of  those  Sta'es  which  do  not  tolerate  Slavery. 

To  prove  what  I  say  of  Great  Britain  to  be  true,  I  make  the  following  extracts  from 
the  Reports  of  Commissioners  ai)pointed  by  Parliament,  and  published  by  the  order 
of  the  House  of  Commons.  I  can  make  but  few  and  short  ones.  But  similar  quota- 
tions might  be  made  to  any  extent,  and  I  defy  you  to  deny  that  these  specimens  do  not 
exhibit  the  I'eal  condition  of  your  operatives  inevery  branch  of  your  industry.  There  is  a 
course  of  variety  in  their  sufferings.  But  the  same  incredible  amount  of  toil,  fright- 
ful destitution,  and  utter  want  of  morals,  characterise  the  lot  of  every  class  of  them. 

Collieries.  ''I  wish  to  call  the  attention  of  the  Board  to  the  pits  about  Brampton. 
The  seams  are  so  thin  that  several  of  them  have  only  two  feet  head-way  to  all  the  work- 
in<r.  Thev  are  worked  altogfither  by  boys  from  8  to  12  years  of  age,  on  all-fours, 
with  a  dog-belt  and  chain.  The  |)assage&  beikg  neither  ironed  nor  wooded,  and  often 
uii  inch  or  two  thick  with  mud.  In  Mr.  Barns'  pit,  these  poor  boys  have  to  drag  the 
barrows  with  one  cwt.  of  coal  or  slack  GO  times  a  day  60  yards,  and  the  empty  bar- 
rows back,  without  once  straightening  their  backs  unless  they  choose  to  stand  under 
the  shaft  and  run  the  risk  of  having  tlieir  heads  broken  by  a  falling  coal." — Rep.  on 
Mines.,  1842. p.  71.  "In  Stropshire  the  seams  are  no  more  than  18  or  20  inches." 
Ibid.  p.  G7.  "At  the  Booth  pit,"  says  Mr.  Scriven,  "I  walked,  rode  and  crept  1800 
yards  to  one  of  the  nearest  faces." — Ibid.  "Chokedamp,"  "Firedam,""  Wild  fire," 
"Sulphur"  ami  "Water"  at  all  times  menaced  instant  death  to  the  laborers  in  these 
mines."  Robert  Northy  aged  16:  Went  into  the  pit  at  7  years  of  age,  to  fill  up  skips. 
I  drew  about  12  months.  When  I  drew  by  the  girdle  and  chain  my  skin  was  broken, 
and  the  blood  ran  down.  I  durst  not  say  anything.  If  we  said  anything,  the  butty, 
and  the  revee  who  works  under  him,  would  tako  a  stick  and  beat  us." — Ibid.     "The 


Gov,  Hammond's  LcUcrs  on  Southern  Slavery.  17 

usual  punishment  for  iheft,  is  to  place  the  culprit's  head  between  the  legs  of  one  of 
the  biggest  boys,  and  each  boy  in  the  pit — sometimes  there  are  20 — inflicts  12  lashes 
on  the  back  and  rump  with  a  cat." — Ibid.  "Instances  occur  in  which  children  arc 
taken  into  these  mines  to  work  as  early  as  4  years  of  age,  sometimes  at  5,  not  unfrc- 
quently  at  6  and  7,  while  from  8  to  9,  is  the  ordinary  age  at  which  these  employments 
connnence." — Ibid.  The  wages  paid  at  those  Mines  is  from  'S2  50  to  $7  50  per 
month  for  laborers  accor.  ing  to  age  and  ability,  and  out  of  this  they  must  support 
themselves.     They  work  12  hours  a  day. — Ibid. 

In  Calico  Printing.  It  is  by  no  means  uncommon  in  all  the  districts  for  children 
5  or  6  years  old  to  be  kept  14  to  16  hours  consecutively.'"  Rep.  on  Children,  1842, 
p.  59. 

I  coLdd  furnish  extracts  similar  to  these  in  regard  to  every  branch  of  your  manu- 
factures, but  I  will  not  multiply  them.  Every  body  knows  that  your  operatives  habit- 
ually labor  from  12  to  16  hours,  men,  women  and  children,  and  the  men  occasionally 
20  hours  per  day.  In  lace  making,  says  the  last  quoted  Report,  children  sometimes 
comnience  work  at  2  years,  of  age. 

Destitution.  It  is  stated  by  your  Commissioners,  that  40,000  persons  in  Liverpool, 
and  15,000  in  Manckester,  live  in  cellers;  while  22,000  in  England  pass  the  night 
in  barns,  tents,  or  the  open  air.  "There  have  been  found  such  occurrences  as  7,  8 
and  10  persons  in  one  cottage,  I  cannot  say  for  one  day,  but  for  whole  days,  without 
a  morsel  of  food.  They  have  remained  in  their  beds  of  straw  for  two  successive  days, 
under  the  impression  that  in  a  recumbent  posture  the  pangs  of  hunger  were  less  felt." 
Lord  Brougham^ s  Speech,  July  11,  1842.  A  volume  of  frightful  scenes  might  be 
quoted  to  corroborate  the  inferences  to  be  necessarily  drawn  from  the  facts  here  sta- 
ted.    I  will  not  add  more,  but  pass  on  to  the  important  inquiry,  as  to 

Morals  and  Education. — Elizabeth  Barrett,  aged  14.  I  always  work  without  stock- 
ings, shoes  or  trowsers.  I  wear  nothing  but  a  shift.  I  have  to  go  up  to  the  headings 
with  the  men.  They  are  all  naked  there.  I  am  got  used  to  that."  Report  on  Mines. 
"As  to  illicit  sexual  intercourse,  it  seems  to  prevail  universally  and  from  an  early 
period  of  life."  "The  evidence  might  have  been  doubted  which  attest  the  early  com- 
mencement of  sexual  and  promiscuous  intercourse  among  boys  and  girls."  A  lower 
condition  of  morals  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  term,  could  not  I  think  be  found.  I  do 
not  mean  by  this  that  there  are  many  more  prominent  vices  among  them,  but  that 
moral  feelings  and  sentiments  do  not  exist.  They  have  no  morals.'''  "Their  appear- 
ance, manners  and  moral  natures — so  far  as  the  word  moral  can  be  applied  to  them, 
are  in  accordance  with  their  half  civilized  condition." — Rep.  on  Children.  "More 
than  half  a  dozen  instances  occurred  in  Manchester,  where  a  man,  his  wife,  and  his 
wife's  grown  up  sister,  habitually  occupied  the  same  bed. — Report  on  Sanitary  Condi- 
tion. Robert  Churchillow ,  aged  16:  "1  do  not  know  anything  ol  Moses — never  heard 
ofFrauce.  I  dont  know  what  America  is.  Never  heard  of  Scotland  or  Ireland. 
Cant  tell  how  many  weeks  there  are  in  a  year.  There  12  pence  in  a  shilling,  and 
20  shillings  in  a  pound.  There  are  eight  pints  in  a  gallon  of  ale." — Rep.  on  Mines. 
Ann  Eggly  aged  18.  "I  walk  about  and  get  fresh  air  on  Sundays.  I  never  go  to 
Church  or  Chapel.  I  never  heard  of  Christ. at  all."  Ibid.  Others:  "The  Lord  sent 
Adam  and  Eve  on  earth  to  save  sinners."  "I  dont  know  who  made  the  world,  I 
never  heard  about  God."  I  dont  know  Jesus  Christ — I  never  saw  him — but  I  have 
seen  Foster  who  prays  about  him."  Employer:  "You  have  expressed  surprise  at 
Thomas  Mitcliel's  not  hearing  of  God.  1  judge  there  are  few  Colliers  here  about 
that  have."  Ibid.  I  will  quote  no  more.  It  is  shocking  beyond  endurance  to  turn 
over  your  Records  in  which  the  condition  of  your  laboring  classes  is  but  too  faithfully 
depicted.  Could  our  slaves  but  see  it,  they  would  join  us  in  Lynching  Abolitionists, 
which,  by  the  by,  they  would  not  now  be  loth  to  do.  We  never  think  of  iniposing  on 
them  such  labor,  either  in  amount  or  kind.  We  never  put  them  to  a7iy  work  under 
ten,  more  generally  at  twelve  years  of  age,  and  then  the  very  slightest.  Destitution 
is  absolutely  unknown;  never  did  a  slave  starve  in  America;  while  in  moral  senti- 
ments and  feelings,  in  religious  information,  and  even  in  creneral  intelligence  they 
are  infinitely  the  superiors  of  your  operatives.  When  you  look  around  you  how  dare 
you  talk  to  us  before  the  world  of  slavery?     For  the  condition  of  your  wretched  labo- 


18  Gov.  Hammond^s  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

rers,  you,  and  every  Britain  wlio  is  not  one  of  them,  arc  responsible  before  God  and 
man.  If  you  are  really  buiiKine,  plii!aiillirii|>ic  and  charitable,  here  are  obji-cts  for 
you.  Relieve  them.  Kinaneipate  then).  Raise  them  from  the  condition  of  brutes, 
lo  the  level  of  liunian  beings;  of  American  slaves  at  least.  Do  not  for  an  instant 
snppose,  that  the  name  of  being  freemen  is  the  slightest  comfort  to  them,  situated  as 
tlioy  arc,  or  that  the  bombastic  boast  that  "whoever  touches  British  soil  stands  re- 
deemed, regenerated  aud  disenthralled,"  can  meet  with  any  thing  but  the  ridicule  and 
contempt  of  mankind,  while  that  soil  swarms,  both  on  and  under  its  surface,  with  the 
most  abject  and  degraded  wretches  that  ever  bowed  beneath  the  oppressor's  yoke. 

I  have  said  that  slavery  is  an  established  and  inevitable  condition  of  human  society. 
I  do  not  speak  of  the  name,  but  [ha  fad.  The  Marcjuis  of  Normandy  has  lately  de- 
dared  your  operatives  to  be  "i/t  eject  slaves,'^  Can  it  be  denied?  Probably,  lor 
such  Piiilanlhropists  as  your  Abolitionists  care  nothing  for  facts.  They  deal  in  terms 
aud  fictions.  It  is  the  word  "slavery"  which  shocks  their  tender  sensibilities;  and 
their  imaginations  associate  it  with  "hydras  and  chimeras  dire."  The  thing  itself, 
in  its  most  hideous  reality,  passes  daily  under  their  view  unheeded — a  familiar  face, 
touching  no  chord  of  shame,  sympathy  or  indignation.  Yet  so  brutalizing  is  your 
iron  bondage,  that  the  English  operative  is  a  bye  word  through  tlie  world.  When 
favoring  fortune  enables  him  to  i;scape  his  priso'.i  house,  both  in  E-.rope  and  America 
he  is  shuinied.  With  all  the  skill  which  14  hours  of  daily  labor  from  the  tendcrest 
age  has  ground  into  him,  his  discontent,  which  habit  has  made  second  nature,  and  his 
depraved  propensities,  running  riot  when  freed  from  his  won;ed  fetters,  prevent  his 
cm[)loyment  whenever  it  is  not  a  matter  of  necessity.  If  we  derived  no  other  benefit 
from  African  Slavery  in  the  Southern  Slates,  than  thai  it  deterred  your  freedmen  from 
coming  hither,  1  should  regard  it  as  an  inestimable  blessing. 

And  how  unaccountable  is  that  philanthropy,  which  closes  its  eyes  upon  such  a  state 
of  things  as  you  have  at  home,  and  turns  its  blurred  vision  to  our  afl'airs  beyond  the 
Atlantic;  meddling  with  matters  which  no  way  concern  them — presiding,  as  you 
have  lately  done  at  meetings,  to  denounce  the  "iniquity  of  our  laws,"  and  "the  atro- 
city of  our  practices,"  and  to  sympathise  with  infamous  wretches  imprisoned  hc:re  for 
violating  decrees  promulgated  both  by  God  and  man.  Is  this  doing  the  work  of  "your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven,"  or  is  it  seeking  only  "that  you  may  have  glory  of  man?" 
Do  you  remember  the  denunciation  of  our  Saviour,  "Woe  unto  you,  Scribes  and 
Pharisees;  Hypocrites!  for  )e  make  clean  the  outside  of  the  cup  and  platter,  but  with- 
in  they  are  full  ot  extortion  and  excess." 

Butat'ter  all,  supposing  that  every  thing  you  say  of  slavery  be  true,  and  its  aboh'- 
tion  a  matter  ol"  the  last  necessity,  how  dr)  you  expect  to  elfeet  emancipation,  and 
what  do  you  calculate  will  he  the  result  of  its  acfomplishment?  As  lo  the  means  to 
be  used,  the  abolitionists,  I  believe,  aflect  to  differ,  a  large  proportion  of  them  pre- 
tc'iding  that  their  sole  purpose  is  to  apply  "moral  suasion"  to  the  slave-holders 
themselves.  As  a  matter  of  curiosity,  I  should  like  to  know  what  their  idea  of  "mo- 
ral suasion"  is.  Their  discourses — yours  is  no  exception — are  all  tirades,  the  exor- 
dium, argument  and  peroration,  tnrning  on  the  epithets  '"tyrants,"  "thieves,"  "mur- 
derers," addressed  to  us.  They  revile  .us  as  "atrocious  monsters,"  "violators  of  the 
laws  of  nature,  God,  and  man,"  our  homes  the  abode  of  every  iniquity,  our  land  a 
"brothel."  We  retort,  that  they  are  "incendiaries"  and  "assassins."  Delightful 
argument!  Sweet,  potent  "moral  suasion!"  What  slave  has  it  treed — what  pro- 
selue  can  it  ever  make?  But  if  your  course  was  wholly  dilferent — if  you  distilled 
nectar  from  your  lips,  and  discoursed  sweerest  music,  could  you  reasonably  indulge 
the  hope  of  accomplisliing  your  object  by  such  means?  Nay,  supposi  ig  that  we 
were  all  convinced,  and  thought  of  slavery  precisely  as  you  do,  at  what  era  of  "mo- 
ral suasi(jn"  do  you  imagine  you  could  prevail  on  us  to  give  up  a  thousand  inillion  of 
dollars  in  the  value  ofour  slaves,  and  a  thousand  million  ot  dollars  more  in  the  depre- 
ciaticjn  ol'  our  lands,  in  consetpience  of  the  want  of  laborers  to  cultivate  them?  Con- 
sider: were  ever  any  people,  civilized  or  savage,  persuaded  by  any  argument,  iiuman 
or  Divine,  to  surrender  voluntarily  two  thousand  million  of  dollars? — Would  you  think 
of  asking  five  millions  of  JCiiglishmen  to  contribute  either  at  once  or  gradually,  four 
bundled  and  fifty  millions  of  pounds  sterling,  to  the  cause  of  philanthropy,  even  if  the 


Goih  Hammond^ s  Letters  on  Southern  Sl(W3ry.  19 

purpose  to  be  accomplished  was  not  of  doubtful  goodness?  If  you  are  prepared  to 
undertake  such  a  selieuie,  try  it  at  home.  Collect  your  fund,  purcliaso  our  slaves, 
and  do  with  them  as  you  like.  Be  all  the  glory  yours,  fairly  and  honestly  won.  But 
you  see  the  absurdity  of  such  an  idea:  \vvay  thou,  with  your  pretended  "moral  sua- 
sion."  You  know  it  is  mere  nonsense.  The  abolitionists  have  no  faith  in  them-. 
selves.  Those  who  expect  to  accomplish  any  thing,  count  on  means  altogether  dif- 
ferent.  They  aim  first  to  alarm  us;  that  failing,  to  compel  us  by  tbrco  to  emancipate 
our  slaves,  at  our  own  risk  and  cost.  To  these  purposes,  they  obviously  direct  all 
their  energies.  Our  Northern  liberty  men,  have  endeavored  to  disseminate  their 
destructive  doctrines  among  our  slaves,  and  excite  them  to  insurrection.  But  we 
have  put  an  end  to  that,  and  stricken  terror  into  them.  They  dare  not  show  their 
faces  here.  Then  they  declared  they  would  dissolve  the  Union.  Let  them  do  it. 
The  North  would  repent  it  far  more  than  the  South.  We  are  not  alarmed  at  the 
idea.  We  are  well  content  to  give  up  the  Union  sooner  than  sacrifice  two  thousand 
million  of  dollars,  and  with  them  all  the  rights  we  prize.  You  may  take  it  for  gran- 
ted,  that  it  is  impossible  to  persuade  or  alarm  us  into  emancipation,  or  to  making  the 
first  step  towards  it.  Nothing  then,  is  left  to  try,  but  sheer  force.  If  the  abolitionists 
are  prepared  to  expend  their  own  treasure,  and  s'ued  their  own  blood,  as  freely  as 
-hey  ask  us  to  do,  let  them  come.  We  do  not  court  the  conflict;  but  we  will  not  and 
vyj  cannot  shrink  from  it.  If  they  are  ready  to  go  so  far:  if,  as  I  expect,  their  phi- 
lathropy  recoils  from  it:  if  they  are  looking  only  I'or  cheap  glory,  let  them  turn  their 
thcights  elsewhere  and  leave  us  in  peace.  Be  the  sin,  the  danger  and  the  evils  of 
slavery  all  our  own.      We  compel,  we  ask  none  to  share  them  with  us. 

Iim  well  aware  that  a  notable  scheme  has  been  set  on  foot  to  achieve  abolition, 
by  naking,  what  is  by  courtesy  called  "free"  labor,  so  njuch  che:iperthan  slave  labor 
as  toforce  the  abandonment  of  the  latter-  Though  we  are  l)eginning  to  manufac- 
ture zcith  slaves.  I  do  not  think  you  will  attempt  to  pinch  your  operatives  closer  in 
Great  liritain.  Yon  cannot  curtail  the  rags  with  which  they  vainly  attempt  to  cover 
their  nakedness,  nor  reduce  the  porridge,  which  barely,  and  not  always,  keeps  those 
who  have  employment,  from  perishing  with  famine.  When  you  can  do  this,  we  will 
consider  whether  our  slaves  may  not  dispense  with  a  pound  or  two  of  bacon  per 
week,  or  a  few  garments  annually.  Your  aim,  however,  is  to  cheapen  labor  in  the 
tropics.  The  idea  of  doing  this  by  exporting  your  'bold  yeomanry,'  is  I  presume  given 
up.  Cromwell  tried  it  when  he  sold  the  captured  followers  of  Charles  into  West  India 
slavery,  where  they  speedily  found  graves.  Nor  have  your  recent  experiments  on 
British  and  even  Dutch  constituiions  succeeded  better.  Have  you  still  faith  in  carrying 
thither  your  Coolies  from  Hindostan?  Doubtless  that  once  wild  robber  race,  whose 
highest  eulogium  was,  that  they  did  not  murder  merely  fijr  the  love  of  blood,  have 
been  tamed  riown,  and  are  perhaps  "keen  for  immigration,"  for  since  your  civiliza- 
tion has  reached  it,  plunder  has  grown  scarce  in  Guzerat.  But  that  is  the  result  of 
the  experiment  thus  far?  Have  the  Coolies,  ceasing  to  handle  arms,  learned  to  han- 
dle spades,  and,  prove  hardy  and  profitable  laborers?  On  the  contrary,  broken  in 
spirit  and  stricken  with  disease  at  home,  the  wretched  victims  whom  you  have  hitherto 
kidnapped  fi)r  a  bounty,  confined  in  depots,  put  under  hatches  and  cariied  across  the 
ocean,  forced  into  "voluntary  imigration,"  have  done  littlejbut  lie  down  and  die  on  the 
pseudo  soil  oi  freedom.  At  the  end  of  five  years,  two-thirds,  in  some  colonies  a 
large  proportion,  are  no  more!  Humane  and  pious  contrivance!  To  alleviate  the 
fancied  sufferings  of  the  accuised  posterity  of  Ham,  you  sacrifice  by  a  crued  death 
two-thirds  of  the  chixlren  of  the  blessed  Shern — and  demand  the  applause  ofchristians, 
the  blessing  of  heaven!  If  this  "experiment"  is  to  go  on,  in  God's  name  try  your 
hand  upon  the  Thugs.  That  other  species  of  "Itn;nigration"  to  which  you  are  I'esort- 
ing,  I  will  consider  presently. 

But  what  do  you  calculate  will  be  the  result  of  emancipation?  You  will  probably 
point  me  by  way  of  answer  to  the  West  Indies — doubtless  to  Antigua,  the  great  boast 
of  abolition.  Admitting  that  it  has  succeeded  there — which  I  w'll  do  for  the  sake  of 
argument — do  you  not  know  the  reason  of  it?  The  true  and  only  causes  of  whatever 
success  has  attended  it  in  Antigua  are,  that  the  population  was  belore  crowded,  and 
all  ornearly  all  the  arable  land  in  cultivation.    The  emancipated  negroes  could  not, 


20  Gov.  flanimond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

many  ofthem,  getaway  if  thoy  desired;  and  Uiiew  not  where  to  go  in  case  they  did. 
They  had  practically  no  alternative  but  to  remain  on  the  spot;  and  remaining,  they 
must  work  on  the  terms  of  the  proprietors,  or  perish — ihe  stron;^  arm  of  the  mother 
country  tbrhiddiiig  all  hope  ot'seizing  the  Land  lor  themselves.  The  i'roprielors,  well 
knowing  that  ihey  could  thus  c>jmmand  labor  tor  the  merest  necessities  of  life,  which 
was  much  clieaper  than  maintaining  the  non  oirective,  as  well  as  the  effective  slaves 
in  a  style  which  decency  and  interest,  if  not  humanity,  required,  willingly  accepted 
half  their  value,  and  at  once  realized  far  more  than  the  interest  on  the  other  half  in 
the  diminution  of  their  losses,  and  the  reduced  comforts  of  the  freemen.  One  of  your 
most  illustrious  Judges,  who  was  also  a  profound  and  philosophical  Historian,  has 
said  "that  Villeinage  was  not  abolished,  but  went  to  decay  in  England."  This 
was  the  process.  This  has  been  the  process  whenever  (the  name  ol)  Villeina"e 
or  Slavery  has  been  successfully  abandoned.  Slavery  in  fact  "went  into  decay" 
in  Antigua.  I  have  admitted  that  under  similar  circumstances,  it  might  profitably 
cease  here — that  is,  profitably  to  the  individual  proprietors.  Give  me  half  the 
"alue  of  my  slaves,  and  compel  them  to  remain  and  labor  on  my  plantation  at 
10  to  11  cents  a  day,  as  they  do  in  Antigua,  supporting  themselves  and  families, 
and  you  shall  have  them  to-morrow,  and  if  you  like  dub  them  "free."  Not  to 
stickle,  I  would  surrender  them  without  price.  No — I  recall  my  words:  My  hu' 
manity  revolts  at  the  idea.  I  am  attached  to  my  slaves,  and  would  not  have  art  >r 
part  in  reducing  them  to  such  a  condition.  I  deny,  however,  that  Antigua,  a'  a 
community,  is  or  ever  will  be  as  'prosperous  under  present  circumstances,  as  'he 
was  before  abolition,  though  fully  ripe  for  it.  The  fact  is  well  known,  fhe 
reason  is,  that  the  African,  if  not  a  distinct,  is  an  inferior  race,  and  never  will 
eflect,  as  it  never  has  effected,  as  much  in  any  other  condition  as  in  tlu,t  of 
Slavery. 

I  know  of  no  Slaveholder  who  has  visited  the  West  Indies  since  Slavery  wao  abol- 
ished, and  published /t/s  views  of  it.  All  our  facts  and  opinions  come  through  the 
friends  of  the  experiment,  or  at  least  those  not  opposi'd  to  it.  Taking  tlicsc,  even 
without  allowance,  to  be  true  as  stated,  1  do  not  see  where  the  Abolitionists  find  cause 
for  exultation.  The  tables  of  exports,  which  are  the  best  evidences  of  the  condition 
of  a  people,  exhibit  a  woful  fdling  off — excused,  it  is  true,  by  unprecedented  droughts 
and  iiurricancs,  to  which  their  free  labor  seems  unaccountably  more  subject  than  slave 
labor  used  to  be.  I  will  not  go  into  detail.  It  is  well  known  that  a  largo  proportion 
of  British  Legislation  and  expenditure,  and  that  proportion  still  constantly  increasing, 
is  most  anxiously  devoted  to  repairing  the  monstrous  error  of  emancipation.  You 
are  actually  galvanizing  your  expiring  colonies.  The  truth,  deduced  from  all  the 
facts,  was  thus  pithily  stated  by  the  London  Quarterl}  Review,  as  long  ago  as  1840. 
"None  of  the  benefits  anticipated  by  mistaken  good  intentions  have  been  realized, 
while  every  evil  wished  for  by  knaves  and  foreseen  by  the  wise,  has  been  painfully 
verified.  The  wild  rashness  of  fanaticism  has  made  the  emancipation  of  the 
Slaves  equivalent  to  the  loss  of  one  half  of  the  West  Indies,  and  yet  put  back 
the  chance  of  Negro  civilization."  [Art.  Ld.  Dudlci/s  Letters.)  Such  are  the 
real  fruits  of  your  nevcr-to-be-too-much-glorificd  abolition,  and  the  valuable  dividend 
of  your  twenty  millions  of  pounds  sterling  invested  therein. 


No.  4. 

Revival  of  the  Slave   Trade  under  a  new  name — Emancipation  in  the   United  Stales 
certain  to  result  in  the  Extermination  of  the  Negro  Race — Conclusion. 

If  any  farther  proof  was  wanted,  ol  the  utter  and  well  known  though  not  yet  openly 
avowed  failure  of  West  Indian  emancipation,  it  would  be  furnished  b)' the  startling 
fact  that  ihe  African  Slave  Trade  has  been  actually  revived  tinder  the  ausp'ecs  and 
protection  of  the  British  Government.  Under  the  specious  guise  of  "Immigration" 
they  are  replenishing  these  Islands  with  slaves  from  the  coast  of  Africa.  Y»)ur  colo- 
ny of  Sierra  Leone,  founded  on  that  coast  to  prevent  the  Slave  Trade,  and  peopled 


Gov.  HammomVs  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  21 

by  the  by  in  the  first  instance  by  norrmes  stolen  from  these  States  during  the  Revo- 
lutionary War,  is  the  depot  where  captives  taken  from  Shivers  by  your  armed  vessels, 
are  transported.  I  mi2[ht  say  returned,  since  nearly  half  the  Africans  carried  across 
the  Atlantic  are  understood  to  be  embarked  in  this  vicinity.  The  wretched  survivors, 
M'ho  are  there  sot  at  liberty,  are  immediarely  seduced  to  •'imnii^rite"  to  the  West 
Indies.  The  business  is  systematically  carried  on  by  Black  "Delofiates"  sent  ex- 
pressly from  the  West  Indies,  where  on  arrival,  the  "immigrants"  are  sold  info 
Slavery  for  tweniy-one  years,  under  conditions  ridiculously  trivial  and  wickedly  void, 
since  few  or  none  will  ever  be  able  to  derive  any  advantage  Crom  them.  The  whole 
prime  of  life  thus  passed  in  bondage,  it  is  contemplated,  and  doubtless  it  will  be  car- 
ried into  eftect  to  turn  them  out  in  their  old  age  to  shii't  for  themselves,  and  to  supply 
their  places  with  fresh  and  vigorous  "Immigrants."  Was  ever  a  system  of  slavery 
so  barl)arous  devised  before?  Can  you  think  of  comparing  it  with  ours?  Even  your 
own  Religious  Missionaries  of  Sierra  Leone,  denounce  it  "as  worse  than  the  Slave 
state  in  Africa."  And  your  Black  Delegates  fearful  of  the  influence  of  these  Mis- 
sionaries as  well  as  on  account  of  the  inadequate  supply  of  the  captives,  are  now 
preparing  to  procure  the  able  bodied  and  comparatively  industrious  Kroomen  of  the 
interior,  hy  purchasing  from  their  Headmen  the  privilege  of  inveigling  them  to  the 
West  India  market!  So  ends  the  magnificent  farce — perhaps  I  should  say  tragedy 
of  West  India  Abolition!  I  will  not  harrow  your  feelings  by  asking  you  to  review 
the  labors  of  your  life  and  tell  me  what  you  and  your  brother  Enthusiasts  have  ac- 
complished for  "injured  Africa,"  but  while  agreeing  with  Lord  Stowell,  that  "Villei- 
nage decayed,"  and  admitting  that  slavery  might  do  so  also,  I  think  I  am  fully  justi- 
fied  by  passed  and  passing  events,  in  saying,  as  Mr.  Grosvenor  said  of  the|Slave  trade, 
"that  its  abolition  is  impossible." 

You  are  greatly  mistaken,  however,  you  think  that  the  consequences  of  emancipa- 
tion here,  would  be  similar  and  no  more  injurious  than  those  which  followed  from  it 
in  your  little  seagirt  West  India  Islands,  where  nearly  all  were  blacks.  The  system 
of  slavery  is  not  in  "decay"  with  us.  It  flourishes  in  full  and  growing  vigor.  Our 
country  is  boui.dless  in  extent.  Dotted  here  and  there  with  villages  and  tiekis,  it  is 
for  the  most  part  covered  with  immense  forests  and  swamps  of  almost  unknown  size. 
In  such  a  country,  with  a  people  so  restless  as  ours,  communicating  of  course  some  of 
that  spirit  to  their  domestics,  can  you  conceive  of  any  thing  short  of  the  powerof  the 
master  over  the  slave,  could  confine  the  African  race,  notoriously  idle  and  improvi- 
dent,  to  labor  on  our  plantations?  Break  this  bond,  but  for  a  day,  and  these  planta- 
tions will  be  solitudes.  The  negro  loves  change,  novelty  and  sensual  excitements 
of  all  kinds,  when  awake.  "Reason  and  order,"  of  which  Mr.  W^ilbertbrce  said  "liberty 
was  the  child,"  do  not  characterise  him.  Released  from  his  present  obligations  his 
first  impulse  would  be  to  go  somewhere.  And  here  no  natural  boundaries  would 
restrain  him.  At  first  they  would  all  seek  to  towns  and  rapidly  accumulate  in  squal- 
lied  groups  upon  their  outskirts.  Driven  thence  by  the  "armed  police"  which  would 
immedialely  spring  into  existence,  they  would  scatter  in  all  directions.  Some  bodies 
of  them  might  wander  to  the  "free"  States  or  to  the  western  wilderness,  marking 
their  tracks  by  their  depredations  or  their  corpses.  Many  would  roam  wild  in  our 
"Big  woods."  Many  more  would  seek  the  recesses  of  our  swamps  f)r  secure  covert. 
Few,  very  few  of  them  could  be  prevailed  on  to  do  a  stroke  of  work,  none  to  labor 
continuously,  v/hile  a  head  of  cattle,  sheep  or  swine,  could  be  found  in  our  ranges,  or 
an  ear  of  corn  nuddcd  in  our  abandoned  fields.  These  exhausted,  our  folds  and 
poultry  yards,  barns  and  store-hous(!S  would  become  their  prey.  Finally,  our  scat- 
tered dwellings  would  be  plundered,  perhaps  fired,  and  the  inmates  murdered. 
How  long  do  you  suppose  we  could  bear  these  things?  llow  long  would  it  be  before 
we  should  sleep  with  rifles  at  our  bedsides,  and  never  move  without  one  in  our  hands? 
This  work  once  begun,  let  the  story  of  our  British  ancestors  and  the  aboriginese  of 
country  tell  the  sequel.  Far  more  rapid  however,  would  be  the  catastrophe.  "Ere 
many  moons  went  by,"  the  Afiican  race  would  be  exterminated,  or  reduced  again  to 
slavery,  their  ranks  recruited,  after  your  example,  by  fresh  "Emigrants"  from  their 
father  land. 

Is  timely  preparation  and  gradual  emancipation  suggested  to  avert  these  horrible 
consequences?     1  thought  your  experience  in   the  West  Indies  had  at  least  done  so 


22  Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

much  as  lo  explode  that  iJoa.  Ifit  {\\\\oC\  thoro,  much  more  would  it  fail  here,  wlicre 
the  two  races,  a|)|)roximatiiig  to  eijuality  in  iiuuiljcrs,  are  daily  and  hourly  in  the 
closest  contact.  (Jive  room  for  but  a  sinjile  spark  of  real  jealousy  to  l)e  kindled  be- 
tween tliiMn,  and  the  explosion  would  be  instantaneous  and  universal.  It  is  the,  most 
fatal  of  all  fallacies  to  suppose  thiit  these  two  races  can  exist  together,  after  any  lengtli 
oftime  or  any  process  of  prepariitio:i,  on  terms  at  all  approaching  to  equality.  Of 
this,  both  of  them  are  linally  and  lixedly  convinced.  They  differ  essentially,  in  all 
the  leading  traits  that  characterise  the  varieties  of  the  human  species,  and  color  draws 
an  indellible  and  insuperable  line  of  separation  between  them.  Every  scheme 
founded  upon  the  idea  that  they  can  remain  together  on  the  same  soil,  beyond  the 
briefest  period,  in  any  other  relation  than  precisely  that  which  now  subsists  between 
them,  is  not  only  preposterous,  but  fraught  with  deepest  danger.  If  there  was  no 
alternative  but  to  try  the  "experiment"  here,  reason  and  humanity  dictate  that  the 
sufTciing  of  "gradualism"  should  be  saved,  and  the  catastrophe  of  "immediate  aboli- 
tion," enacted  as  ra[)idly  as  possible.  Are  you  impatient  for  the  performance  to 
commence?  Do  you  long  to  gloat  over  the  scenes  I  have  suggested,  but  could  not 
hold  the  pen  to  portray?  In  your  long  life  many  such  have  passed  under  your  re- 
view. You  know  that  iheii  are  not  ^'impussible."  Can  they  be  to  your  taste?  Do 
you  believe  that  in  laboriug  to  bring  them  about  the  Abolitionists  are  doing  the 
will  of  God?  No!  God  is  not  there.  It  is  the  work  of  Satan.  The  Arch-fiend, 
under  specious  guise,  has  found  his  way  into  your  souls,  and  with  false  appeals  to 
philanthropy,  and  foul  insinuations  to  andjition,  instigates  them  to  rush  headlong  to 
the  accomplishment  of  his  diabolical  designs. 

We  live  in  a  wonderful  age.  The  events  of  the  last  three  quarters  of  a  century 
appear  to  have  revolutionized  the  human  mind.  Euter|)rise  and  aud)ition  are  only 
limited  in  their  purposes  by  the  horizon  of  the  imaginatinn.  It  is  the  transcendental 
era.  In  philosophy,  religion,  government,  science,  arts,  commerce,  nothing  that  has 
been  is  to  be  allowed  to  be.  Conservation  in  any  form  is  scoded  at:  The  slightest 
taint  of  it  is  fatal.  Where  will  all  this  end?  If  you  can  tolerate  one  ancient  maxim, 
let  it  be  that  the  best  criterion  of  the  future  is  the  past.  That,  if  any  thing,  will  give 
a  clue.  And,  looking  back  only  through  your  time,  vvhat  was  the  earliest  feat  of 
this  same  Transcendentalism?  The  rays  of  the  new  moral  Drummond  Light,  were 
first  concentrated  to  a  tbcus  at  Paris,  to  illuminate  the  universe.  In  a  twinkling  it 
consumed  the  political,  religious,  and  social  systems  of  France.  It  could  not  be  ex- 
tinguished there  until  literally  drowned  in  blood.  And  then  from  its  ashes  arose  that 
supernatural  man,  who,  for  twenty  years,  kept  affrighted  Europe  in  convulsions. 
Since  that  time,  its  scattered  beams,  refracted  by  broader  surfaces,  have  nevertheless 
continued  to  scathe  wherever  they  have  tiillen.  What  political  structure,  what  reli- 
gioiis  creed  but  has  felt  t:ie  galvanic  shock,  and  even  now  trembles  to  its  foundations? 
iMankind,  still  horror-strickei!.  by  the  catastrophe  of  France,  have  shrunk  from  rash 
ex|)erimenls  upon  social  systems.  But  they  have  been  practising  in  the  East,  around 
the  Mediterranean,  and  through  the  West  India  Islands.  And  growing  confident,  a 
portion  of  them  seem  desperately  bent  on  kindling  the  all-devouring  flame  in  the 
bosom  of  our  land.  Let  it  once  again  blaze  up  to  heaven,  and  another  cycle  of  blood 
and  devastation  would  dawn  upon  the  world.  For  our  sake,  and  lijr  the  sake  o» 
those  infatuated  men,  who  are  madly  driving  on  the  conflagration;  for  the  sake  of 
human  nature,  we  are  called  on  to  strain  e\ery  nerve  to  arrest  it.  And  be  assured 
oiir  etlbrts  will  be  bounded  only  with  our  being.  jNor  do  I  doubt  that  five  millions 
of  people,  brave,  intelligent,  united,  and  prepared  to  hazard  every  thing,  will,  in  such 
a  cause,  with  the  blessing  of  God,  sustain  themselves.  At  ail  events,  come  what 
may,  it  is  ours  to  meet  it. 

\Vo  are  well  aware  of  the  light  estimation  in  which  the  Abolitionists,  and  those 
who  are  taught  by  them,  protess  to  hold  us.  We  have  seen  the  attempt  of  a  portion 
of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland  to  reject  our  alms,  on  the  ground  that  we  were 
"Slave-Drivers,"  after  sending  missionaries  to  solicit  them.  And  we  have  seen  Mr. 
O'Connell,  the  "irresponsible  master"  of  millions  of  ragged  serfs,  from  whom,  poverty 
stricken  as  they  are,  he  contrives  to  wring  a  splendid  privy  jiurse,  throw  back  with 
contumely  the  "tribute"  of  his  own   countrymen  liom  this  land  of  "miscreants." 


Gov.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  23 

These  ppop'o  may  exhaust  their  slang  and  make  black-guards  of  themselves;  but 
they  cannot  defile  us.  And  as  for  the  suggestion  to  exclude  slave-holders  from  your 
London  clubs,  we  scout  it.  Many  of  us,  indeed,  do  gf)  to  London,  and  we  have  seen 
your  breed  of  gawky  Lords,  both  there  and  here,  but  it  never  entered  into  our 
conceptions,  to  look  on  them  as  better  than  ourselves.  Xor  can  we  l)e  annoyed  by 
the  ridiculous  airs  of  such  u|)starts  as  your  O'ConnelTs,  Ritchie's,  Macaulej's,  and 
the  like.  The  American  slave-holders,  collectively  or  individually,  ask  no  favors 
of  any  man,  or  race  who  tread  the  earth.  In  none  of  the  attril)utes  of  men,  mental 
or  physical,  do  they  acknowledge  or  fear  superiority  elsewhere.  They  stand  in  the 
broadest  lii^ht  of  the  knowledge,  civilization  and  improvement  of  the  age.  as  much 
favored  of  heaven  as  any  of  the  sons  of  Adam.  Exacting  nothing  undue,  they  yield 
nothing  but  justice  and  courtesy,  even  to  royal  blood.  They  can  neither  be  flattered, 
duped,  ner  bullied  out  of  their  rights  or  their  property.  They  smile  with  contempt 
at  scurrility,  and  vapouring  beyond  the  seas,  and  they  turn  their  backs  upon  it  where 
it  is  "irresponsi!)le;"  but  insolence  that  ventures  to  look  them  in  the  lace,  vvill  never 
fail  to  be  chastised. 

I  think  1  may  trust  you  will  not  regard  this  letter  as  intrusive.  I  should  never  have 
entertained  the  idea  of  writing  it,  had  you  not  opened  the  correspondence.  If  you 
think  any  thing  in  it  harsh  review  your  own — which  I  regret  I  lost  soon  after  it  was 
received — and  you  will  probably  find  that  you  have  taken  your  revenge  beforehand. 
If  v'ou  have  not,  transfer  an  equitable  share  of  what  you  deem  severe  to  the  account 
oftlie  Abolitionists  at  large.  They  have  accumulated  against  the  slave-holders  a  ba- 
lance of  invective  which,  with  all  our  efforts,  we  shall  not  be  able  to  lipuidate  much 
short  of  the  era  in  which  your  national  debt  will  be  paid.  At  all  events,  I  have  no 
desire  to  ofl^end  you  personally,  and  with  the  best  wishes  for  your  continued  health,  I 
have  the  honor  to  be 

Your  obedient  seruant, 

"         .  PL  FIAMMOND. 


No.  5, 

SiLVEU  Bluff,  S.  C.  March  24,  1845. 

Sir: — In  my  letter  to  you  of  the  28th  January — which  I  trust  you  have  received 
ere  this — I  mentioned  that  I  had  lost  your  circular  letter  soon  after  it  had  come  to 
hand.  It  was,  I  am  glad  to  say,  only  mislaid,  and  has  within  a  tew  days  been  recov. 
ered.  A  second  perusal  of  it  induces  me  to  resume  my  pen.  Unwilling  to  trust  my 
recollections  from  a  single  reading,  I  did  not  in  my  last  communication  attempt  to 
follow  the  course  of  your  argument,  and  meet  directly  the  points  made  and  the  terms 
used.  I  thought  it  better  to  take  a  general  view  of  the  subject  which  could  not  fail  to 
traverse  your  most  material  charges.  I  am  well  aware  however  that,  for  fear  of  be- 
itig  tedious,  I  omitted  many  interesting  topics  altogether,  and  abstained  from  a  complete 
discussion  of  some  of  those  introduced.  I  do  not  propose  now  to  exhaust  thi;  subject; 
which  it  would  require  volumes  to  do;  but  without  waiting  to  learn — which  I  may 
never  do — your  opinion  of  what  I  have  already  said,  I  sit  down  to  supply  some  of  the 
deficiencies  of  my  letter  of  January,  and,  with  your  circular  before  me,  to  reply  to 
such  parts  of  it  as  have  not  been  fully  answered. 

It  is,  I  perceive,  addressed  among  others  to  "such  as  have  never  visited  the  Southern 
States"  of  this  confederacy,  and  proftsses  to  enlighten  their  ignorance  of  the  actual 
''condition  of  the  poor  slave  in  their  own  country."  I  cannot  help  thinking  you  would 
have  displayed  prudence  in  confining  the  circulation  of  your  letter  altogether  to  such 
persons.  You  might  then  have  indulged  with  impunity  in  giving,  as  )ou  have  done, 
a  picture  of  slavery  drawn  from  your  own  excited  imagination,  or  from  those  impure 
fijuntaius,  the  Martineaus,  Marryatts,  Trollopes  and  Dickenses,  who  have  profited  by 
catering,  at  our  expense,  to  the  jealous  sensibilities  and  debauched  tastes  of  your  coun- 
trymen. Admitting  that  you  are  familiar  with  the  history  of  slavery  and  the  past 
discussions  of  it,  as  I  did,  1  now  think  rather  broadly,  in  my  former  letter,  what  can 
you  know  of  the  true  condition  of  the  "poor  slave"  here?     i  am  not   aware  that  vou 


24  Gov.  ILmimond-s  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery. 

have  ever  visited  this  country,  or  even  the  West  Indies.  Can  you  suppose  that  because 
you  have  devoted  your  lile  to  the  investigation  of  the  suhject — conimenciiiii;  it  untler 
the  influence  olan  enthusiasm  so  melancholy  at  first  and  so  volcanic  aCierwards  as  to 
be  nothing  short  ot"hal!ucinalion — puisuinj^  it  as  men  o[' one  idecn\o  everything,  with 
the  single  puipose  of  establishing  your  own  view  of  it — gathering  your  information 
from  discharged  seamen,  disappointed  speculators,  lactiouspoliticians,  visionary  reform- 
ers and  scuriilous  tourists — opening  your  ears  to  every  species  of  com|)laint,  exag- 
geration and  llilsehood  that  interested  ingenuity  could  invent,  and  never  lor  a  moment 
questioning  the  truth  of  anything  that  could  make  for  your  cause — can  you  suppose 
that  all  this  has  qualified  you,  living  the  while  in  Eniiland,  to  form  or  approxunate 
towards  the  formation  of  a  correct  opinion  of  the  condition  of  slaves  Among  us?  I 
know  the  power  of  self-delusion.  I  have  not  the  least  doubt  that  you  think  yourself 
the  very  best  informed  man  alive  on  this  subject,  and  that  many  think  so  likewise. 
So  far  as  lacts  go,  even  after  deducting  from  your  list  a  great  deal  that  is  not  fact,  I 
Avill  not  deny  that  probably  your  colhction  is  the  most  extensive  in  existence.  But 
as  to  the  trulh  in  regard  to  slavery,  there  is  not  an  adult  in  this  region  but  knows  more 
of  it  than  you  do.  Trulh  and  fact  are,  you  are  aware,  by  no  means  synonimous 
terms.  Ninety-nine  facts  may  constitute  a  falsehood:  the  hundredth,  added  or  alone, 
gives  the  truth.  With  all  your  knowledge  of  facts,  1  undertake  to  say  that  you  are 
entirely  and  grossly  ignorant  of  the  I'eal  condition  of  our  slaves.  And  from  all  that  I 
can  see,  you  are  equally  ignorant  of  the  essential  principles  of  human  association 
revealed  iu  history,  both  sacred  and  profane,  on  which  slavery  rests,  and  which  will 
perpetuate  it  forever  in  some  form  or  other.  However  you  may  declaim  against  it; 
however  powerlully  you  may  array  atrocious  incidents;  whatever  appeals  you  may 
make  to  the  heated  imaginations  and  tender  sensibilities  of  mankind,  believe  me,  your 
total  blindness  to  the  2rhoJe  truth,  which  alone  constitutes  the  truth,  incapacitates  you 
from  ever  making  an  impression  on  the  sober  reason  and  sound  common  sense  of  the 
world.  You  may  seduce  thousands — you  can  convince  no  one.  Whenever  and 
Avherever  you  or  the  advocates  of  your  cause  can  arouse  the  passions  of  the  weak- 
minded  and  the  ignorant,  and,  bringing  to  bear  with  them  the  interests  of  the  vicious 
and  unprincipled,  overwhelm  common  sense  and  reason — as  God  sometimes  permits 
to  be  done — you  may  triumph.  Such  a  triumph  we  have  witnessed  in  Great  Britain. 
But  I  trust  it  is  far  distant  here:  Nor  can  it  from  its  nature  be  extensive  or  enduring. 
Other  classes  of  Reformers,  animated  by  the  same  spirit  as  the  Abolitionists,  attack 
the  institution  of  marriage,  and  even  the  established  relations  of  Parent  and  Child. 
And  they  collect  instances  of  barbarous  cruelty  and  shocking  degradation  which  rival, 
if  they  do  not  throw  into  the  shade,  3-our  slavery  statistics.  I5ut  the  rights  of  marriage 
and  parental  authority  rest  upon  truths  as  obvious  as  they  are  unchangeable — coming 
home  to  every  human  being, — self-impressed  forever  on  the  individual  mind,  and  can- 
not be  shaken  until  the  whole  man  is  corrupted,  nor  subve.ted  until  civilized  society 
Ijecomes  a  putrid  mass.  Domestic  slavery  is  not  so  universally  understood,  nor  can  it 
make  such  a  direct  appeal  to  individuals  or  society  beyond  its  pale.  Here,  prejudice 
and  passion  have  room  to  sport  at  the  expense  of  others.  They  may  be  excited  and 
urged  to  dangerous  action,  remote  from  the  victims  they  mark  out.  They  may,  as  they 
have  done,  effect  great  mischief,  but  they  cannot  bo  made  to  maintain,  in  the  long 
run,  dominion  over  reason  aiid  common  sense,  nor  ultimately  put  down  what  God  has 
ordained. 

You  deny  however  that  slavery  is  sanctioned  by  God,  and  your  chief  argument  is  that 
when  he  gave  to  Adam  dominion  over  the  fruits  of  the  earth  and  the  animal  creation 
he  stopped  there.  "He  never  gave  him  any  further  right  over  his  fellow  men." 
You  restrict  the  descendants  of  Adam  to  a  very  short  list  of  rights  and  powers,  duties 
and  responsibilities,  if  you  limit  them  solely  to  those  conferred  and  enjoined  in  the  first 
cha|)ter  of  Genesis.  It  is  very  obvious  that  in  this  narrative  of  the  creation  Moses 
did  not  have  it  in  view  to  record  any  part  of  the  Law  intended  for  the  government  of 
man  in  his  social  or  political  state.  Eve  was  not  yet  created;  the  expulsion  had  not 
yet  taken  place;  Cain  wns  unborn;  and  no  allusion  whatever  is  made  to  the  mani- 
fold decrees  of  God  to  which  these  events  gave  rise.  The  only  serious  answer  this 
argument  deserves  is  to  say,  what  is  so  manifestly  true,  that  God's  not  expressly  giving 


Gov.  HammomVs  Lefters  on  Southern  S'/airrij.  25 

to  Adam  "any  right  over  his  fellow  men"  by  no  means  excluded  Him  from  conferring 
that  rigiit  on  his  descendants;  which  he  in  i'act  did.  VV^;  know  that  Aljiaham,  the 
chosen  one  of  God,  exercised  it  and  held  property  in  his  fellow  man,  even  anterior  to 
the  period  when  property  in  land  was  acknowledged.  We  might  infer  that  Cod  had 
authorised  it.  But  we  are  not  reduced  to  inference  or  conjecture.  At  the  hazard  of 
iatiguing  you  by  repetition,  I  will  again  refer  you  to  the  ordinances  of  the  scriptures. 
Innumerable  in.^tances  might  be  quoted  where  God  has  given  and  commanded  men  to 
assume  d<jminion  over  their  ieliow  men.  But  one  will  suffice.  In  the  twenty-rifili 
chapter  of  Leviticus  you  will  find  Domestic  Slavery — preciseli/  siicli  us  is  mainlaincd 
at  this  day  in  these  States — ordained  and  established  by  God,  in  language  which  I 
defy  you  to  pervert  so  as  to  leave  a  doubt  on  any  honest  mind  that  this  institution  was 
founded  by  Him  and  decreed,  to  be  ])erpetuaL     I  quote  the  words: 

Leviticus,  25  cb.  44  v.:  "Both  thy  Bondmen  and  thy  Bouilmaids  which  thou  shalt 
have,  siiall  be  of  the  Heathen  [Ad'icans]  that  are  round  about  you:  ol'  them  ye  shall 
buy  Bondmen  and  Bondmaids. 

45:  Moreover,  of  the  children  of  the  strangers  that  do  sojourn  among  you,  of  them 
shall  yc  buy,  and  of  their  families  that  are  with  you  which  they  begat  in  your  land 
[descendants  of  Africans?]  and  they  shall  be  your  possession." 

46:  '■'■And.yc  shall  take  them  as  an  inheritance  for  your  children  after  you,  to  in- 
herit them  for  a  possession.     Thky  shall  be  your  Bo>dmen  foeever." 

What  human  Legislatiu-e  could  make  a  decree  more  full  and  explicit  than  this? 
What  court  of  Law  or  (Miancery  could  defeat  a  title  to  a  slaye  couched  in  terms  so 
clear  and  complete  as  these?  As  this  is  the  Law  of  God,  whom  you  pretend  to  wor- 
ship, while  you  denounce  and  traduce  us  for  respecting  it. 

It  seems  scarcely  credible,  but  the  fact  is  so,  that  you  deny  this  Law  so  plainly 
M'ritten,  and  in  the  face  of  it,  have  the  hardihood  to  declare  that  "though  slavery  is  not 
specifically  yet  it  is  virtually  forbidden  in  the  scriptures,  because  all  the  crimes  which 
necessarily  arise  out  of  slavery,  and  which  can  arise  from  no  other  source,  are  repro- 
l)ated  there  and  threatened  with  divine  vengeance."  Such  an  unworthy  subterfuge 
is  scarcely  entitled  to  consideration.  But  its  gross  absurdity  may  be  exposed  in  tew 
words.  I  do  not  know  what  crimes  you  particularly  allude  to  as  arising  from  slave- 
ry. But  you  will  perhaps  admit — not  because  they  are  denounced  in  the  decalogue, 
which  the  Abolitionists  respect  only  so  far  as  they  choose,  but  because  it  is  the  m- 
mediate  interest  of  most  men  to  admit — that  disobedience  to  parents,  adultery,  and 
stealing,  are  crimes.  Yet  these  crimes  "necessarily  arise  from  the  relations  of  parent 
and  child,  marriage,  and  the  possession  of  private  property;  at  least  they  "can  arise 
from  no  other  sources."  Then,  according  to  your  argument,  it  is  "virtually  forbidden" 
to  marry,  to  beget  children,  and  to  hold  private  property!  Nay  it  is  forbidden  to  live, 
since  murder  can  only  be  perpetrated  on  living  subjects.  You  add  that  "in  the  same 
way  the  gladiatorial  shows  of  old,  and  other  barbarous  customs,  were  not  specifically 
forbidden  in  the  New  Testament,  and  yet  Christianity  was  the  solo  means  of  their 
su|)i)ression."  This  is  \'evy  true.  But  these  shows  and  barbarous  customs  thus  sup- 
pressed, were  not  authorised,  by  God.  They  were  not  ordained  and  commanded  by 
God  for  the  benefit  of  His  chosen  people  and  mankind,  as  the  purchase  and  holding 
of  Bondmen  and  Bondmaids  were.  Had  they  been,  they  would  never  have  been 
"suppressed  by  Christianity"  any  more  than  slavery  can  be  by  your  party.  Although 
Christ  came  "not  to  destroy  but  fulfill  the  Law"  he  nevertheless  did  formally  abrogate 
some  of  the  ordinances  promulgalini  by  Moses,  and  all  such  as  wtM-e  at  war  with  his 
mission  of  "peace  and  good  will  on  earth."  He  "specifically"  annuls,  for  instance, 
one  "barbarous  custom"  sanctioned  by  those  ordinances,  where  he  says:  "ye  have 
heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  an  eye  for  an  eye  and  a  tooth  for  a  tooth;  but  I  say  unto 
you  that  ye  resist  not  evil,  but  whosoever  shall  smite  thee  on  the  right  cheek  turn  to 
him  the  other,  also."  Now,  in  the  lime  of  Christ  it  was  usual  tor  masters  to  put  their 
slaves  to  death  on  the  slightest  provocation.  They  even  killed  and  cut  them  up  to 
feed  their  fishes.  He  was  undoubtedly  aware  of  these  things,  as  well  as  of  the  Law 
and  Commandment  I  have  quoted.  He  could  oidy  have  been  restrained  fram  de- 
nouncing them,  as  he  did  the  'Hex  lalionis,"  because  he  knew  that  in  despite  of  these 
barbarities  the  institution  of  slavery  was  at  the  bottom   a  sound  and  v.holesome  as 


26  Gov.  HdinmoiuVs  Letters  on  Southern  Slcwery. 

woll  as  lawful  oiip.  Certaiij  it  is,  that  iti  FTis  wisdom  and  purity  he  did  not  see  propei* 
to  interft'ie  with  it.  In  your  wisdom,  however,  you  make  the  sacrilegious  attempt  to 
overthrow  it. 

You  quoti;  tlie  diMiunriution  ot'Tyro  and  Si  ion,  and  say  that  "the  chief  reason  jjiv- 
en  hy  the  Prt)pliet  Joel  fiir  their  destruction,  was,  that  ihey  were  notorious  beyond  all 
others  for  carrying  on  the  Slave  Trade."  I  am  afraid  you  think  we  have  no  Biljles 
in  the  slave  States,  or  that  we  are  unahle  to  read  ihem.  I  cannot  otherwise  account 
for  your  making  this  reference,  unless  indeed  your  own  reading  is  confined  to  an  ex- 
purgated  edition,  prepared  for  the  use  of  Abolitionists,  in  which  everything  relating 
to  slavery  that  militates  against  their  view  of  it  is  lelt  out.  The  Prophet  Joel  denoun- 
ces the  Tyrians  and  Sidoniaus  because  "The  children  also  of  Jiidah  and  tlie  children 
of  Jerusalem  have  ye  sold  unto  the  (inicians."  And  what  is  the  divine  vengeance 
of  this  "notorious  slave  trading?"  Hear  it.  "And  I  wili  sell  your  sons  and  daughters 
into  the  hands  of  the  children  of  Judah,  a-id  they  shall  sell  them  to  the  Sabeans,  to  a 
people  lar  oH';  tor  the  liord  hath  spoken  it."  Do  you  call  sliis  a  condemnation  ot  slave, 
trading?  'I'he  I'rophet  makes  (Jod  Himselfa  [)artici[)ator  in  the  crime,  ifthat  be  one. 
"The  Lord  hath  spoken  it,"  he  says,  that  the  Tyrians  and  Sidotiians  shall  be  soJd  in- 
to slavery  to  strangers.  Their  real  offence,  w;is  in  enslaving  the  Chosen  Peo[)!e; 
and  their  sentence  was  a  repetition  of  the  old  Command,  to  make  slaves -of  the  "Hea- 
then round  about." 

I  have  dwelt  upon  your  Scriptural  argument  because  you  profi'ss  to  believe  the  Bi- 
])le;  because  a  large  [jroportion  of  the  Abolitionists  profess  to  do  the  same,  and  to  act 
under  its  sanction;  because  your  Circular  is  addressed  in  pait  to  "professing  Chris- 
tians;" and  because  it  is  from  that  class  mainly  that  you  expect  to  seduce  converts  by 
your  anti-christian,  I  may  say,  infidel  doctrines.  It  would  be  wholly  unnecessary  to 
answer  you  to  anyone  who  reads  the  scriptures  (or  himself,  and  cr)nstrues  them  ac- 
cording to  any  other  formula  than  that  which  the  Abolitionists  are  wickedly  endeav- 
oring to  impose  upon  the  world.  The  scriptural  sanction  of  slavery  is  in  fact  so  palpa- 
ble, and  so  strong,  that  both  wings  of  your  party  are  beginning  to  acknowledge  it. — 
The  more  sensible  and  moderate  admit,  as  the  organ  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland, 
the  North  British  Review,  has  lately  done,  that  they  '■^are  precluded  by  the  statements 
and  conduct  of  the  Apostles  J  ram  regarding  mere  slave-holding  as  essentially  sinful," 
while  the  desperate  and  reckless,  who  are  bent  on  keeping  up  the  aj^itation  at  every 
hazard,  declare,  as  has  been  done  in  the  Anti-Slavery  Record,  "If  our  inqui  y  turns 
out  in  favor  of  slavery,  it  is  the  Bible  that  must  fall,  and  not  the  rights  op 
iiiMAX  NATURE."  You  caunot,  I  am  satisfied,  much  longer  maintain  before  the 
world,  the  Christian  plat(i)rm  from  which  to  wage  war  upon  our  Institutions.  Driven 
from  it,  you  must  abandon  the  contest,  or,  rejnidiating  Revelation,  rush  into  the 
horrors  ot  Natural  Religion. 

Y^our  next  coinplaint,  that  our  slaves  are  kept  in  bondage  by  the  "Law  of  force.' 
In  what  country  or  condition  of  mankind  do  you  see  human  allairs  regulated  merely 
by  the  law  of  love?  L^nless  I  am  greatly  mistaken  you  will,  if  you  look  over  the  world, 
find  nearly  all  certain  and  permanent  rights,  civil,  social,  and  I  may  even  add  religi- 
ous, resting  on  and  ultimately  secured  by  the  "law  of  force."  The  power  of  majori- 
ties— of  aristocracies — of  Kings — nay  of  priests,  for  the  most  part,  and  of  property, 
resolves  itself  at  last  into  "force,"  and  could  not  otherwise  be  long  maintained.  Thus 
in  every  turn  of  yf)ur  argument  against  our  system  of  slavery,  you  advance,  whether 
conscious  of  it  or  not.  radical  and  revolutionary  doctrines  calculated  to  change  the 
whole  face  of  the  world,  to  overthrow  all  government,  disorganize  society,  and  re- 
duce man  to  a  stale  of  nature — red  with  blood,  and  shrouded  once  more  in  barbaric 
ignorance.  But  you  greatly  err,  if  you  suppose,  because  we  rely  on  force  in  the  last 
resort  to  maintain  our  supremacy  over  our  slaves,  that  ours  is  a  stern  and  unfeeling  do- 
mination at  all  to  be  compared  in  hard-hearted  severity  to  that  exercised,  not  over 
the  mere  laborer  only,  but  by  the  iiigher  over  each  lower  order,  wherever  the  British 
sway  is  acknowledged.  You  say,  that  if  those  you  address  were  "to  spend  one  day 
in  the  South  they  wuuld  return  home  with  impressions  against  slavery  never  to  be  eras- 
ed."  But  the  fact  is  universally  the  reverse.  I  have  known  nuinerous  instances,  and 
I  never  knew  a  single  one,  where  there  was  no  other  cause  of  offence  and  no  object 


Gor.  Hammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  27 

to  promote  by  falsehood,  that  iDclividuals  from  ihe  non-siave-holclin<,'  States  did  not, 
after  residinjr  among  us  long  (Miouijli  to  understand  th(>  siihjoct,  "rctnrn  home"  {ode 
fend  our  slavery.  It  is  malter  of  regret,  that  you  have  never  tried  the  experiment 
yomself.  I  do  not  doubt  you  would  have  been  converted,  for  I  give  you  credit  for  an 
honest  though  perverted  mind.  You  would  have  seen  how  weak  and  futile  is  ail  ab- 
stract reasoning  about  this  matter,  and  that,  as  a  l)uilding  may  not  be  less  elegant  in 
its  jjroportions,  or  taseful  in  its  ornaments,  or  virtuous  in  its  uses,  for  being  based  upon 
granite,  so  a  system  of  human  government,  though  founded  on  force,  may  develope 
and  cultivate  the  tenderest  and  purest  sentiments  of  the  human  heart.  And  our  pa- 
triarchal  scheme  ofdomestic  servitude  is  indeed  well  calculated  to  awaken  the  higher 
and  finer  feelings  of  our  nature.  It  is  not  wanting  in  its  enthusiasm  and  its  poetry. 
The  relations  ofthe  most  beloved  and  hon(U-ed  chief,  and  the  most  faithfid  and  admir- 
ing subjects,  whicli  from  the  time  of  Homer  have  l)een  the  theme  of  song,  are  trijiid 
and  unfelt  compared  with  those  existing  between  the  master  and  his  slaves — who 
served  his  father,  and  rocked  his  cradle,  or  have  been  born  in  his  house-hold,  and 
look  forward  to  serve  his  children — who  have  been  through  li!e  the  props  of  his  for- 
tune, and  the  ol)jec1s  of  his  care — who  have  partaken  of  his  griefs,  and  looked  to  him 
fjr  comfort  in  their  own — whose  sickness  he  has  so  often  watched  over  and  releaved 
— whose  holidays  he  has  so  often  made  joyous  ijy  liis  bounties  and  his  presence:  tor 
whose  welfare  when  absent  his  anxious  solicitude  never  ceases,  and  whose  hcaity  and 
atiectionate  greetings  never  fail  to  welc(Miie  him  home.  In  thiscold,  calculating,  am- 
bitious world  of  ours,  there  are  few  ties  more  heartfelt,  or  of  more  benignant  influ- 
ence, than  those  which  mutually  bind  the  master  and  the  slave,  under  our  ancient 
system,  handed  down  fVom  the  Father  of  Israel.  The  unholy  purpose  of  the  Aboli- 
tionists,  is  to  destroy  by  defiling  it;  to  infuse  into  it  the  gall  and  bitterness  which  ran- 
kle in  their  own  envenomed  bosoms;  to  poison  the  minds  of  the  master  and  the  ser- 
vant;  turn  love  to  hatred,  array  ^\force"  against  force,  and  hurl  ail, 

"With  hideous  ruin  and  combustion,  down 
To  bottomless  perdition.'' 

You  think  it  a  great  "crime"  that  we  do  not  pay  our  slaves  "wages,"  and  on  this  ac- 
count pronounce  us  "robbers,"  In  my  former  letter  I  showed  that  the  labor  of  our 
slaves  was  not  without  great  cost  to  us,  and  that  in  fact  they  themselves  receive  more 
in  return  for  it  than  your  hirelings  do  for  theirs.  For  what  purpose  do  men  labor,  but 
to  support  themselves  and  their  families  in  what  comfort  they  are  able?  The  efforts 
of  mere  physical  labor  seldom  suffice  to  provide  more  than  a  livelihood.  And  it  is  a 
well  known  and  shocking  fact,  that  while  few  operatives  in  Great  Britain  succeed  in 
securing  a  comfortable  living,  the  greater  part  drag  out  a  miseral)le  existence,  and 
sink  at  last  under  absolute  want.  What  avail  is  it  that  you  go  through  the  form  of 
paying  them  a  pittance  of  m  hat  you  call  "wages,"  when  you  do  not,  in  return  fiir  their 
services,  alhnv  them  what  alone  they  ask — and  have  a  just  right  to  demand — enough 
to  feed,  clothe  and  lodge  them,  in  health  and  sickness,  with  reasonahle  conrit(>rt. — 
Though  we  do  not  give  "wages"  in  money,  we  do  tiiis  fijr  our  slaves,  and  they  are 
therefore  better  rewarded  than  yours.  It  is  the  prevailing  vice  and  error  ofthe  age, 
and  one  from  which  the  Abolitionists,  with  all  their  saiiuly  |)relensions,  are  far  from 
being  free,  to  bring  everything  to  the  standard  of  money.  You  make  gold  and  silver 
of  happiness.  The  American  slave  must  be  wretched  indeed,  because  lie  is  not 
compensated  for  his  services  in  cash.  It  is  altogether  praiseworthy  to  pay  the  laborer 
a  shilling  a  day  and  let  him  starve  on  it.  To  supply  all  his  wants  abundantly,  and  at 
all  times,  yet  withhold  from  him  money,  is  among  "the  most  reprobated  crimes." — 
The  fact  cannot  be  denied,  that  the  mere  laborer  is  now  and  always  has  been,  every- 
where that  barbarism  has  ceased,  enslaved.  Among  the  innovations  of  modern  times 
following  "the  decay  of  villeinage,"  has  been  the  creation  of  a  new  system  of  slavery. 
The  primitive  and  patriarchal,  which  may  also  lie  called  the  sacred  and  natural  sys- 
tem, in  which  the  laborer  is  under  the  personal  control  of  a  fellow-being  endowed 
with  the  sentiments  and  sym[)attiies  of  humanity,  exists  arn(nig  u.s.  It  has  been  al- 
most  everywhere  else  superceded  by  tfie  modern  artificial  money-poucr  system,  in 
which  man — his  thews  and  sinews,  his  hopes  and  afTections,  his  very  being,  are  all 
subjected  to  the  dominion  oi'  Capital — a  monster  without  a  heart— cold,  stern,  arith- 


23  Gov.  IfnmmoYKVs  Ldtcrs  on  Soiitlicrn  Slavery, 

iTiPtical — sticking  to  tlie  bond — taking  ovi^r  "tho  pound  of  flesh" — working  up  human 
lift'  with  Engines,  and  retailing  it  out  by  weight  and  measure.  His  name  of  ok!  was 
•'.Mammon,  the  least  erected  spirit  that  fell  from  Heaven."  And  it  is  to  extend  his 
I'jmpire,  that  you  and  your  deluded  coadjutors  dedicate  your  lives.  You  are  stirring 
up  mmkind  to  overthrow  our  Ileaven-ordained  system  of  servitude,  surrouiuled  by  in- 
numerable checks,  designed  anti  planted  deep  in  the  human  heart  by  God  and  nature, 
to  substitute  the  absolute  rult;  ot' this  "Spirit  Reprobate"  whose  proper  place  was  Hell. 

You  charge  us  with  looking  on  our  slaves  "as  chattels  or  brutes,"  and  enter  into  a 
somewhat  olal>orate  argument  to  prove  that  they  have  "human  flirms,"  "talk,"  and 
even  "think."  N(jw  the  fact  is  that,  however  you  may  indulge  in  this  strain  for  efTect, 
it  is  the  Abolitionists,  and  not  the  Slavoholeers,  who  practically,  and  in  the  most  im- 
portant point  of  view,  regard  our  slaves  as  "chattels  or  brutes."  In  your  calculations 
(if  the  consequences  of  emancipation,  you  pa.ss  over  entirely  those  which  must  prove 
most  serious,  and  which  arise  from  the  fact  of  their  hii\n\r  persons.  You  appear  to  think 
that  we  might  abstrain  from  the  use  of  them  as  readily  as  if  they  were  machines  to  be 
laid  aside,  f>r  cattle  that  might  be  turned  out  to  find  pasturage  for  themselves.  I  have 
heretofore  glanced  at  some  of  the  results  that  would  ibllow  from  breaking  the  bonds  of 
so  m-ciny  human  beings  now  pi.'acefully  and  huppdy  linked  into  our  social  system.  The 
tragic  h orroi's,  the  decay  and  ruin  that  would  for  years,  perhaps  for  ages,  brood  over 
our  land,  if  it  could  be  accomplished,  I  will  not  attempt  to  portray.  But  do  you  fancy 
the  blight  would,  in  such  an  event,  come  to  us  alone.'  The  diminution  of  the  sugar 
crop  of  the  West  Indies  aflected  Great  Britain  only,  and  there  chiefly  tl)e  poor.  It 
was  a  matter  of  no  moment  to  Capital,  that  Labor  should  have  one  comfort  less.  Yet 
it  has  forced  a  reduction  of"  the  I'lritish  duty  on  sugar.  Who  can  estimate  the  consc- 
(]uencos  that  must  follow  the  annihilation  of  the  cotton  crop  of  the  slavo-holding  States? 
1  do  not  undervalue  the  importai»ce  of  other  articles  of  commerce,  but  no  calamity 
could  befall  the  world  at  all  comparable  to  the  sudden  loss  of  two  millions  of  bales  of 
cotton  annually.  From  the  deserts  of  Africa  to  the  Siberian  wilds — from  Greenland 
to  the  Chinese  Wall — there  is  not  a  spot  of  earth  but  would  feel  the  sensation.  The 
I'^actories  of  Europe  would  fall  with  a  concussion  that  would  shake  down  castles,  pal- 
aces, and  even  thrones;  while  the  "purse-proud  elbowing  insolence"  of  our  Northern 
monopolists  would  disappear  forever  under  the  smooth  speech  of  the  Pedlar,  scouring 
our  frontiers  for  a  livelihood,  or  the  blufT  vulgarity  of  the  South  Sea  whaler,  f()llowing 
the  harpoon  amid  storms  and  shoals.  Doubtless  the  Abolitionists  think  we  could  grow 
cotton  without  slaves,  or  that  at  worst  the  reduction  of  the  crop  would  be  moderate 
and  temporary.  Such  gross  delusions  show  how  profoundly  ignorant  they  are  of  our 
condition  here. 

You  declare  that  "the  character  of  the  people  of  the  South  has  long  been  that  of 
hardened  Infidels,  who  fear  not  (iod,  and  have  no  regard  f^)r  religion."  I  will  not 
repeat  what  I  said  in  my  former  letter  on  this  point.  I  only  notice  it  to  ask  you  how 
you  could  possibly  reconcile  it  to  your  profession  of  a  Christian  spirit,  to  make  such  a 
malicious  charge;  to  defile  your  soul  w  ith  such  a  calumny  against  an  unoflending  people? 

•'You  are  old; 
Nature  in  you  stands  on  tlic  very  verge 
Of  lier  confine.     You  should  be  ruled  and  led 
By  some  discretion." 

May  God  forgive  you. 

Akin  to  this,  is  the  wanton  and  furious  assault  made  on  us  by  Mr.  Macaulay,  in  his 
late  speech  on  the  Sugar  duties,  in  the  House  of  Commons,  which  has  just  reached  me. 
His  denunciations  are  wholly  without  measure,  and  among  other  things  he  asserts, 
"that  S.avery  in  the  United  States  wears  its  worst  form;  that,  boasting  of  our  civiliza- 
tion,  freedom,  and  frequenting  Christian  Churches,  we  breed  up  slaves,  nay,  beget 
children  fi)r  slaves,  and  sidl  them  at  so  much  a  head."  Mr.  Macaulay  is  a  Reviewer, 
and  he  knows  that  he  is  "nothing  if  not  critical."  The  practice  of  his  trade  has  given 
him  the  command  of  all  the  slashing  and  vituperative  phrases  of  our  language,  and 
the  turn  of  his  mind  leads  him  to  the  habitual  use  of  them.  He  is  an  author,  and  as 
no  copy-right  law  secures  for  him  from  this  country  a  consideration  for  his  writings,  he 
is  not  only  independent  of  us,  but  naturally  hates  every  thing  American.      He  is   the 


Gov.  HammoruVs  Ldters  on  Southern  Slarcnj.  29 

Representative  of  ?]dingl)urgli;  it  is  his  cuo  to  decry  our  slavery,  and  in  doing  so  he 
may  safely  indulge  the  malignity  of  his  temper,  his  indignation  against  us,  and  his 
capacity  lor  railing.  He  has  suflered  once,  for  being  in  advance  of  his  time  in  favor 
of  Abolition,  and  he  does  not  intend  that  it  shall  be  forgotten,  or  his  claim  passed 
over  to  any  crumb  which  may  now  be  thrown  to  the  vociferators  in  the  cause.  Ifho 
does  not  know  that  the  statements  he  has  made  respecting  the  slaveholders  of  this 
country  are  vile  and  atrocious  falsehoods,  it  is  because  he  docs  not  think  it  worth  his 
while  to  be  sure  he  speaks  the  truth,  so  that  he  speaks  to  his  own  purpose. 
"Hie  iiigcr  est,  hunc  tii,  Romanc  caveto.'' 

Such  exhibitions  as  he  has  made  may  draw  the  applause  of  a  British  House  of  Com- 
mons, but  among  the  sound  and  high-minded  thinkers  of  the  world,  they  can  only 
excite  contempt  and  disgust. 

But  you  are  not  content  with  depriving  us  of  all  religious  feelings.  You  assert  that 
our  slavery  has  also  "demoralized  the  Northern  States,"  and  charge  upon  it  not  only 
every  common  violation  of  good  order  there,  but  the  "Mormon  murders,"  the  "Phila- 
deli^hia  riots,"  and  all  "the  exterminating  wars  against  the  Indians."  I  wonder  that 
you  did  not  increase  the  list  by  adding  that  it  had  caused  the  recent  inimdation  of  the 
Mississippi,  and  the  hurricane  in  the  West  Indies — perhaps  the  insurrection  of  Re 
becca,  and  the  war  in  Scinde.  You  refer  to  the  law  prohibiting  the  transmission  of 
Abolition  petitions  through  the  mail,  as  proof  of  general  corruption!  You  could  not 
do  so,  however,  without  noticing  the  late  detected  espionage  over  the  British  Post  Of- 
fice by  a  Minister  of 'State.  It  is  true,  as  you  say,  it  "occasioned  a  general  outburst 
of  national  feeling" — from  the  opposition;  and  a  "Parliamentary  inquiry  was  institu- 
ted" — that  is  moved,  but  treated  quite  cavalierly.  At  all  events,  though  the  fact  was 
admitted.  Sir  James  Graham  yet  retains  the  Home  Department.  For  one,  I  d)  not 
undertake  to  condemn  him.  Such  things  are  not  ag  linst  the  laws  and  usages  of  your 
country.  I  do  not  know  fully  what  reasons  of  Slate  may  have  influenced  him  and 
justified  his  conduct.  But  I  do  know  that  there  is  a  vast  difference  in  point  of  "na- 
tional morality"  between  the  discretionary  power  residing  in  your  Government  to  open 
any  letter  in  the  public  post  office,  and  a  well-defined  and  limited  law  to  prevent  the 
circulation  of  certain  specified  incendiary  writings  by  means  of  the  United  States  Mail. 

Having  now  referred  to  every  thing  like  argument  on  the  subject  of  Slavery  that 
is  worthy  of  notice  in  your  letter,  permit  me  to  remark  on  its  tone  and  style,  and 
very  extraordinary  bearing  upon  other  institutions  of  this  country.  You  commence 
by  addressing  certain  classes  of  our  people  as  belonging  to  "a  nation  whose  charac- 
ter is  now  so  low  in  the  estimation  of  the  civilized  world;"  and  throughout  you  main- 
tain this  tone.  Did  the  Americans  who  were  "under  your  roof  last  summer,"  inform 
you  that  such  language  would  be  gratifying  to  their  fellow-citizens,  "having  no  prac- 
tical concern  with  slave-holding?"  Or  do  the  infamous  libels  on  America  which  you 
read  in  our  Abolition  papers,  induce  you  to  believe  that  all  that  class  of  people  are, 
like  the  Abolitionists  themselves,  totally  destitute  of  patriotism  or  pride  of  country? 
Let  me  tell  you  that  you  are  grossly  deceived.  And  although  your  stock-brokers  and 
other  speculators,  who  have  been  bitten  in  American  ventures,  may  have  raised  a 
sturming  'cry''  against  us  in  England,  there  is  a  vast  body  of  people  here  besides 
slave-holders,  who  justly 

"Deem  their  own  land  of  every  land  the  pride, 
Beloved  by  Heaven  o'er  all  the  world  beside." 

And  who  hnoiii  that  at  this  moment  we  rank  among  the  First  Powers  of  the  world — 
a  position  which  we  not  only  claim,  but  are  always  ready  and  able  to  maintain. 

The  style  you  assume  in  addressing  your  Northern  friends,  is  in  perfect  keeping 
with  your  apparent  estimation  of  them.  Though  I  should  be  the  last,  perhaps,  to 
criticise  mere  style,  I  could  not  but  be  struck  with  the  extremely  simple  manner  of 
your  letter.  You  seem  to  have  thought  you  were  writing  a  Tract  for  benighted  Hea- 
then, and  telling  wonders  never  before  suggested  to  their  imagination,  and  so  far  above 
their  untotored  comprehension,  as  to  require  to  be  related  in  the  primitive  language 
of  "the  child's  own  book."  This  is  sufficiently  amusing;  and  would  bo  more  so  but 
for  the  coarse  and  bitter  epithets  you  continually  apply  to  the   poor  slave-holders — 


30  G!)i\  Hamni'jnd's  Lvltcrs  on  SoiUheni  Slaveri/. 

e|)itliot.s  which  appear  to   he  storeotypod  for  the  use  of  Ahoh'tionists,  and  which  form 
a  hirij;i'  and  material  |)art  of  all  their  argninents. 

But  perliaps  the  most  extraordinary  part  of  your  letter,  is  3'oiir  bold  demniciatiou 
of 'V/i6'  shamrful  compromises''  of  our  Constitution,  and  your  earnest  recoiniiiendatiou 
to  those  you  adtlress  to  overtiirow  or  revolutionize  it.  In  so  many  words  you  say  to 
them,  ''(/!>"  WH/.s7  t'ilhrrsi'paralc  yourselves  i'rom  n\l  political  connexion  with  the  South, 
and  make  your  own  laws;  or  if  you  do  not  choose  such  a  separation,  you  must  break 
up  the  pM'tlical  ascendancy  which  the  Southern  have  had  for  so  long  a  time  over  the 
Northern  States.'"  The  italics  in  this  as  in  all  other  quotations  are  your  own.  It  is 
well  for  those  who  circulate  your  letter  here,  tliat  the  Constitution  you  denounce  re- 
quires an  overt  act  to  constitute  Treason.  It  may  be  tolerated  lor  an  American  by 
birth  to  use  on  his  own  soil  the  freedom  of  speakinj^  and  writing  which  is  guarantied 
to  him,  and  al)use  our  Constitution,  our  Union,  and  our  people.  liut  that  a  Foreigner 
should  use  such  seditious  language,  in  a  Circular  Letter  addressed  to  a  portion  of  the 
American  people,  is  a  presumption  well  calculated  to  excite  the  indignation  of  all. 
The  party  known  in  this  country  as  the  Abolition  party  has  long  since  avowed  the 
sentiments  yon  express,  and  adopted  the  policy  you  enjoin.  At  the  recent  Presiden- 
tial election  they  gave  over  G'2,000  votes  for  their  own  candidate,  and  held  the  balance 
of  power  in  two  of  the  largest  States — wanting  but  little  of  doing  it  in  several  others. 
In  the  last  four  years  their  vote  has  quadrupled.  Should  the  infatuation  continue, 
and  their  vote  increase  in  the  same  ratio  in  the  next  four  years,  it  will  be  as  large  as 
the  vote  of  the  actual  slave-holders  of  the  Union.  Such  a  [)rospect  is  doubtless  ex- 
tremely gratifying  to  you.  It  gives  h  pe  of  a  contest  on  such  terms  as  may  insure  the 
downfall  of  Slavery  or  our  Constitution.  The  South  venerates  the  Constituiion,  and 
is  prepared  to  stand  by  it  forever,  such  as  it  came  from  the  hands  of  our  fathers;  to 
risk  every  thing  to  defend  and  maintain  it  in  its  integrity.  But  the  South  is  under  no 
such  delusion  as  to  t)elieve  that  it  derives  any  peculiar  protection  from  the  Union, 
On  the  contrary,  it  is  well  known  we  incur  peculiar  danger,  and  that  we  bear  far 
more  than  our  proportion  of  the  l)urdens.  The  apprehension  is  also  fast  fading  away, 
that  any  of  the  dreadful  consequences  commonly  predicted,  will  necessarily  result 
from  a  separation  of  the  States.  And  come  loliat  may,  we  are  firmly  resolved  that  our 
SYSTEM  OF  Domestic  Slavery  shall  stand.  The  fate  of  the  Union  then — but 
thank  God  not  of  Republican  Government—  rests  mainly  in  the  hands  of  the  people 
to  whom  your  letter  is  addressed,  the  "professing  Christians  of  the  Northern  States 
having  no  concern  with  slave-holding,"  and  whom  with  incendiary  zeal  you  are  en- 
deavoring to  stir  up  to  strife — without  which  fanaticism  can  neither  live,  more,  nor 
have  any  being. 

We  have  often  been  taunted  for  our  sensitiveness  in  regard  to  the  discussion  of 
Slavery.  Do  not  suppose  it  is  because  we  have  any  doubts  of  our  rights,  or  scruples 
about  asserting  them.  There  was  a  time  when  such  doubts  and  scruples  were  en- 
tertained. Our  ancestors  opposed  the  introduction  of  Slaves  into  this  country,  and  a 
feeli!ig  averse  to  it  was  handed  down  from  them.  The  enthusia  tic  love  of  liberty 
fostered  by  our  Revolution  strengthened  this  teeling.  And  before  the  commence- 
ment of  the  Abolition  agitation  here,  it  was  the  common  sentiment  that  it  was  de- 
sirat)le  to  get  rid  of  Slavery.  Many  thought  it  our  duty  to  do  so.  When  that  agi- 
tation arose  we  were  driven  to  a  close  examination  of  the  suljject  in  all  its  bearings, 
and  the  n>su'it  has  been  an  universal  conviction  that  in  holding  Slaves  we  violate  no 
law  of  (Jod, — inflict  no  injustice  on  any  of  his  creatures — while  the  terrible  conse- 
quences of  eman(;ij)ation  to  all  parties  and  the  world  at  larg(%  clearly  revealed  to  us, 
make  us  shudder  at  the  bare  thought  of  it  The  slave-holders  are  therefore  indebted 
to  the  Abolitionists  for  perfect  ease  of  conscience,  and  the  satisfaction  of  a  settled 
and  unanimous  determination  in  reference  to  this  matter.  And  could  their  agitation 
cease  now,  I  believe  after  all,  the  good  would  preponderate  over  the  evil  of  it  in 
this  country.  On  the  contrary,  however,  it  is  urged  on  with  frantic  violence,  and 
the  Abolitionist-s,  reasoning  in  the  abstract,  as  if  it  were  a  mere  moral  and  metaphy- 
sical speculation,  or  a  minor  question  in  politics,  professed  to  be  surpri-sed  at  our  ex- 
asperation.  In  their  ignorance  and  recklessness,  they  seem  to  be  unable  to  compre- 
hend our  feelings  or  position.     The  subversion  of  our  rights,   the  destruction   of  our 


Gov.  JIammond's  Letters  on  Southern  Slavery.  31 

property,  the  disturbance  of  our  peace  and  tlie  peace  of  the  world,  are  matters  which 
do  not  appear  to  arrest  their  considLM'ation.  VVIumi  R  !VoUitionary  France  pro- 
claimed "Hatred  to  Kin^^aud  unity  to  the  Republic,"  and  inscribed  -ju  her  banners, 
"France  risen  a<;;ainst  Tyrants,"  she  professed  to  be  only  worshipping  "Abstract 
Ri<>-hls."  And  ii' there  can  be  such  things,  perhaps  she  was.  Yet  all  Europe  rose 
to  put  her  sublime  theories  down.  They  declared  her  an  enemy  to  the  comiuon'peace; 
that  her  doctrines  alone  violated  the  "Law  of  Neighborhood,"  and,  as  Mr.  Burke 
said,  justly  entiiled  them  to  anticipate  the  "damnum  nondum  fiictum"  of  the  civil 
law.  Danton,  Barreke,  and  the  rest  were  apparently  astonished  that  umbrage 
should  be  taken.  The  parallel  between  them  and  the  Abolitionists  holds  good  in  all 
respects. 

The  rise  and  progress  ofthi-  Fanaticism  is  one  ofthe  phenomena  of  the  age  in  which 
we  live,  I  do  not  intend  to  repeat  what  I  have  already  said,  or  to  trace  is  career 
more  minutely  at  present.  But  the  Legislation  of  Great  Britain  will  make  it  his- 
torical,  and  doubtless  you  must  feel  some  curiosity  to  know  how  it  will  figure  on  the 
page  ofthe  Annalist.  I  think  I  can  tell  you.  Though  I  have  accorded  and  do  ac- 
cord to  you  and  your  party  great  influence  in  bringing  about  the  Parliamentary  action 
of  your  country,  you  must  not  expect  to  go  down  to  posterity  as  the  only  cause  of  it. 
Though  you  trace  the  progenitors  of  Abolition  from  1516  through  a  long  stream 
with  divers  branches^  iwn  to  the  period  of  its  triumph  in  your  country,  it  has  not 
escaped  contemporaries,  and  will  not  escape  posterity,  that  England,  without  much 
efibrt  sustaijied  the  storufof  its  scofts  and  threats  until  the  moment  arrived  when  she 
thought  her  colonies  fully  supplied  with  Africans;  and  declared  again#  the  Slave 
Trade  only  when  she  deemed  it  unnecessary  to  her,  and  when  her  colonies  full  of 
Slaves  would  have  great  advantages  over  others  not  so  well  furnished.  Nor  did  she 
agree  to  West  India  emancipation  until,  discovering  the  error  of  her  previous  calcu- 
lation, it  became  an  object  to  have  slaves  ("fee  throughout  the  Western  world,  and,  on 
the  ruin  ofthe  Sugar  and  Cotton  growers  of«  America  and  the  Islands,  to  build  up  her 
great  Slave  Empire  in  the  East.  While  her  indefatigable  exertions,  still  continued 
to  engraft  the  Right  of  Search  upon  the  Law  of  Nations,  on  the  plea  of  putting  an 
end  to  the  forevcM-  increasiiig  Slave  Trade,  are  well  understood  to  have  chiefly  in 
view  the  complete  establishment  of  her  supremacy  at  Sea.  On  these  points  let  me 
recommend  you  to  consult  a  very  able  Essay  ^on  the  Slave  Trade  and  Right  of  Search 
by  M.  JoLLivET,  recently  published;  and  as  you  say,  since  writing  your  Circular 
Letter,  that  you  "burn  to  try  your  hand  on  another  little  Essay,  if  a  subject  could  be 
found,"  I  propose  you  to  "try"  to  answer  this  question,  put  by  M.  Jollivet  to  Eng. 
land:  ^'■Ponrquoi  sa  philanfhropie  «'d  pas  daigiie,  jtisqu''  a  presen'  dovbler  le  cap  de 
Bonne -JBsp^ra  nee  r^  Nor  must  you  flatter  yourself  that  your  party  will  derive  historic 
dignity  from  the  names  of  the  illustrious  British  statesinen  who  have  acted  with  it. 
Their  country's  ends  were  theirs.  They  have  stooped  to  use  you,  as  the  most  illus- 
trious men  will  sometiines  use  the  vilest  instruments,  to  accomplish  their  own  pui po- 
ses. A  tew  philanthropic  common  places  and  rhetorical  flourishes,  "in  the  abstract," 
have  secured  them  your  "sweet  voices,"  and  your  influence  over  the  tribe  of  mawkish 
sentimentalists.  Wilberforce  may  hr^ve  been  yours,  but  what  was  he  besi.'es,  but 
a  wealthy  county  member?  You  must  therefore  expect  to  stand  on  your  own  merits 
alone  before  posterity,  or  rather  that  portion  of  it  that  maybe  curious  to  trace  the 
history  of  the  Delusion  which  from  time  to  time  pass  over  the  surface  of  human  afliiirs, 
and  who  may  trouble  themselves  to  look  through  the  ramifications  of  Transcenden- 
talism in  this  era  of  extravagances  And  how  do  you  expect  to  appear  in  their  eyes? 
As  Christians  piously  endeavoring  to  enforce  the  will  of  (Jod  and  carry  out  the  prin- 
ciples of  Christianity?  Certainly  not,  since  you  deny  or  perveitthe  Scriptures  in  the 
doctrines  you  advance;  and  in  your  conduct  furnish  a  glaring  contrast  to  the  exam- 
ples of  Christ  and  the  .\postles.  As  Philanthro])ists,  devoting  yourselves  to  the  cause 
of  humanity,  relieving  the  needy,  comforting  the  afflicted,  creating  peace  and  glad- 
ness and  plenty  round  about  you?  Certainly  not;  since  you  turn  from  the  needy  and 
the  afflicted;  from  strife,  sorrow  and  starvation  which  surrounds  you;  close  your  eyes 
and  hands  upon  them;  shut  out  from  your  thoughts  and  feelings  the  hmiian  misery  which 
is  real,  tangible,  and  within  your  reach,  to  indulge  your  morbid  imagination  in  conjuring 


32  G^v.  IliuninjiuVs  LvUers  on  Soiitlicrn  Slavcnj. 

up  woes  and  wants  among  a  strange  |)PO|)le  in  distant  lands,  and  offbr  them  succor  in 
tilt' sliape  of  costless  donunciations  of  their  best  tricnis,  or  by  scattering  among  them 
''firebrands,  arrov/s  and  death."  Such  folly  and  m  idnes^;  such  wild  mockery  and 
])ase  imposhirt>,  can  never  w'in  fijr  you,  in  the  sober  judgment  of  future  times,  the 
name  ori'fiilanthropists.  Will  you  even  lie  regarded  as  worthy  citizens?  Scarcely, 
when  the  purposes  you  have  in  view  can  only  bo  achieved  by  revolutionizing  go- 
vernment<  and  overturning  social  systems,  and  when  you  do  not  hestate  zeahjusly 
and  earnestly  to  recommend  such  measures.  Bo  assured  then,  that  posterity  will  not 
reijard  the  Abolitionists  as  Christians,  Philanthropists,  or  virtuous  citizens.  It  will, 
I  have  no  doubt,  look  upon  the  mass  of  the  pirty  as  silly  enthusiasts,  led  away  by  de- 
siofnin"  characters,  as  is  the  case  with  all  parlies  that  break  from  the  great,  acknow- 
led'^ed  ties,  which  bind  civilized  man  in  fellowship.  The  leaders  themselves  will  be 
regarded  as  jnrre  ambit iou<i  men;  not  taking  rank  with  those  whose  ambition  is  "eagle- 
win<Ted  and  sky  aspiring,"  but  belonging  to  that  mean  and  selfish  class  who  are  in- 
stigated  by  '"rivabhating  envy,"  and  whose  base  thirst  is  for  Noloriety;  who  cloak 
their  designs  under  the  vile  and  impious  hypocrisies,  and,  unable  to  shine  in  higher 
spheres,  devote  themselves  to  Fanaticism,  as  a  trade.  And  it  will  be  perceived  that, 
even  in  that,  they  shunned  the  highest  walk.  Religious  Fanaticism  was  an  old 
established  vocation,  in  which  something  brilliant  was  required  to  attract  attention. 
They  could  not  be  Gkorge  Foxks,  nor  Jo.vxxa  SouTiicoTKs,«nor  even  Jok  Smiths. 
But  the  dullest  pretender  could  discourse  a  jumble  of  pious  bigotry,  natural  rights  and 
drivelling  philanthroj^y.  And,  addressing  himself  to  aged  folly  and  youthful  vanity, 
to  ancient  women,  to  ill-gotten  wealth,  to  the  reckless  of  all  classes  who  love  excite- 
ment and  change,  offer  all  the  cheapest  and  safest  glory  in  the  market.  Hence, 
their  numbers;  and,  from  number  and  clamour,  \vhat  iyipression  they  have  made 
on  the  world. 

Such  I  am  persuaded  is  the  light  in  wdiich  Abojitionists  will  be  viewed  by 
the  posterity  their  history  may  reach.*  Unless, .indeed— which  God  forbid---cir- 
cumstances  should  so  favor  as  to  enable  them  to  produce  a  convulsion  which 
may  elevate  them  higher  on  the  'djad  eminence"  where  ^^hey  have  placed  them- 
selves. ^  •" 
I  have  the  honor  to  bo 

Your  obedient  servant, 

J.  II.  HAMMOND. 

Thomas  Clarksox,  Esa. 


pjoTE. Tlic  foregoing  Letters  were  not  originally  intended  for  publication.     In  preparing  tlieni 

for  tlie  press  they  have  been  revised  Tlie  alterations  and  corrections  made  however,  liave  been 
mostly  verbal.  Had  the  writer  felt  at  liberty  to  condense  the  two  letters  into  one,  and  bring  up  the 
history  of  Abolition  to  the  period  of  publication,  he  might  have  presented  a  more  concise  and  per- 
fect argument,  and  illustrated  liis  views  more  forcibly  by  reference  to  facts  recently  developed. 
For  example,  since  writing  the  first,  the  letter  of  Mr.  Cl.\rkson,  as  President  of  the  British  Anti- 
Slavery  Society,  to  Sir  Robert  Peel,  denouncing  the  whole  scheme  of  "Immigration,"  has  reached 
him;  and  after  he  had  forwarded  the  last,  he  saw  it  stated  that  Mr.  Clarkson  had  as  late  as  the 
first  part  of  April,  addressed  the  Earl  of  Abekuee.v,  and  declared  that  all  efforts  to  suppress  the 
African  Slave  '^Ikade  had  fully  failed.  It  may  be  confidently  expected  that  it  will  be  ere  long  an- 
nounced from  the  same  quarter,  that  the  '-experiment"  of  West-India  Emancipation  has  also 
proved  a  complete  abortion. 

Should  the  terms  which  have  been  applied  to  the  Abolitionists  appear  to  any  as  unduly  severe, 
let  it  be  remembered  that  the  direct  aim  of  these  people  is  to  destroy  us  by  the  most  shocking  of 
all  processes;  and  that,  having  a  large  portion  of  the  civilized  world  for  their  audience,  they  daily 
and  systematically  heap  upon  us  the  vilest  calumnies  and  most  unmitigated  abuse.  Clergymen 
lay  aside  their  Bibles,  and  Females  uiisex  themselves  to  carry  on  this  horrid  warfare  against  Slave- 
holders. 


Cji.iRLEsro.N— W.\LKER  «So  BuRKE,  PRINTERS,  3  Broad-st. 


