UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://archive.org/details/literarymindcarvOOIiux 


THE  LITERARY  MIND  AND  THE 
CARVING  OF  DRAGONS 

by  Liu  Hsieh 


NUMBER  LVIII  OF  THE 
RECORDS   OF   CIVILIZATION:   SOURCES   AND   STUDIES 


The  Literary  Mind  and  the 
Carving  of  Dragons 

BY  LIU  HSIEH 

A  STUDY  OF  THOUGHT  AND  PATTERN 
IN  CHINESE  LITERATURE 

Translated 

WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION  AND   NOTES 

by  Vincent  Yu-chung  Shih 


New  Yor\  Columbia  University  Press  ig^g 


The  addition  to  the  "Records  of  Civilization:  Sources  and  Studies" 
of  a  group  of  translations  of  Oriental  historical  materials,  of  which 
this  volume  is  one,  was  made  possible  by  funds  granted  by  Carnegie 
Corporation  of  New  York.  That  Corporation  is  not,  however,  the 
author,  owner,  publisher,  or  proprietor  of  this  publication,  and  is 
not  to  be  understood  as  approving  by  virtue  of  its  grant  any  of  the 
statements  made  or  views  expressed  therein. 

COPYRIGHT   (C)    I959    COLUMBIA   UNIVERSITY   PRESS,   NEW   YORK 

Published  in  Great  Britain,  Canada,  India,  and  Pakistan 

by  the  Oxford  University  Press 

London,  Toronto,  Bombay,  and  Karachi 

Library  of  Congress  Catalog  Card  Number:  58-1 3768 

MANUFACTURED   IN   THE   UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA 

BY     PRINCETON     UNIVERSITY     PRESS,     PRINCETON,     NEW     JERSEY 


RECORDS  OF  CIVILIZATION 
SOURCES  AND  STUDIES 

EDITED  UNDER  THE  AUSPICES  OF  THE 
DEPARTMENT  OF  HISTORY,  COLUMBIA  UNIVERSITY 

GENERAL      EDITOR 

JACQUES  BARZUN,  Professor  of  History 

EDITORS     EMERITI 

JAMES  T.  SHOTWELL,  Bryce  Professor  Emeritus  of  the  History  of 
International  Relations 

AUSTIN  P.  EVANS,  Professor  Emeritus  of  History 

EDITOR:   EUROPEAN  RECORDS 

JOHN  H.  MUNDY,  Associate  Professor  of  History 

EDITORS:      ORIENTAL     RECORDS 

C.  MARTIN  WILBUR,  Professor  of  Chinese  History 

WM.  THEODORE  DE  BARY,  Associate  Professor  of  Chinese  and  Japanese 

CONSULTING      EDITORS 

SALO  W.  BARON,  Professor  of  fewish  History,  Literature,  and  Institu- 
tions on  the  Miller  Foundation;  Director  of  the  Center  of  Israeli  Studies 

GILBERT  HIGHET,  Anthon  Professor  of  the  Latin  Language  and  Litera- 
ture 

DONALD  KEENE,  Associate  Professor  of  Japanese 

PAUL  O.  KRISTELLER,  Professor  of  Philosophy 

GARRETT  MATTINGLY,  Professor  of  History 


ACKNO  WLEDGMENTS 


I  am  greatly  indebted  to  the  Graduate  School  of  the  University  of 
Washington  for  giving  me  grants  from  both  the  Graduate  School 
Research  Fund  and  the  Agnes  Anderson  Research  Fund  which  made 
it  possible  for  me  to  devote  two  summers  to  my  study  of  Chinese 
literary  criticism;  I  am  also  grateful  to  Columbia  University  for  includ- 
ing my  translation  of  the  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  in  the  Records  of  Civiliza- 
tion Series.  I  wish  also  to  thank  Mrs.  Beverly  Plank  for  editing  and 
typing  a  part  of  the  manuscript,  and  Mrs.  Mercedes  MacDonald  and 
Mrs.  Margaret  T.  Myers  for  typing  and  proofreading  the  other  part 
of  it.  Above  all,  I  owe  much  to  Mrs.  Julia  Lin  for  her  assistance  in 
collecting  material  for  the  introduction,  and  to  the  selfless  help  Mrs. 
Jacqueline  Garnett  has  given  me  in  reading  over  the  whole  manu- 
script, suggesting  appropriate  terms,  polishing  the  English,  and 
improving  the  style.  Without  Mrs.  Garnett's  generous  assistance,  the 
translation  would  not  have  the  form  it  now  has.  But  I  alone  am 
responsible  for  both  the  translation  itself  and  the  final  form  in  which 
it  appears. 

VINCENT  YU-CHUNG  SHIH 

University  of  Washington 
September  5,  7957 


CONTENTS 


Introduction  xi 

The  Literary  Mind  and  the  Carving  of  Dragons  i 

preface  3 

i.  on  tao,  the  source  9 

ii.  evidence  from  the  sage  1 3 

iii.  the  classics  as  literary  sources  17 

iv.  emendation  of  apocrypha  21 

v.  an  analysis  of  sao  25 

vi.  an  exegesis  of  poetry  3 1 

vii.  musical  poetry  (yueh-fu)  39 

viii.  elucidation  of  fu  45 

IX.   ODE  AND  PRONOUNCEMENT  (THE  SUNG  AND  THE  TSAn)  49 

x.  sacrificial  prayer  and  oath  of  agreement  (the  chu 

and  the  meng)  54 
xi.  inscription  and  exhortation  (the  ming  and  the 

chen)  59 

xii.  elegy  and  stone  inscription  (the  lei  and  the  pel)  64 

xiii.  lament  and  condolence  (the  ai  and  the  tiao)  68 

xiv.  miscellaneous  writings  73 

xv.  humor  and  enigma  (the  hsieh  and  the  yin)  78 

xvi.  historical  writings  83 

xvii.  speculative  writings  94 

xviii.  treatise  and  discussion  (the  lun  and  the  shuo)  101 

XIX.   EDICT  AND  SCRIPT  (THE  CHAO  AND  THE  Ts'e)  I08 

XX.   WAR  PROCLAMATION  AND  DISPATCH  (THE  HSI  AND  THE  i)  Il6 

XXI.   SACRIFICES  TO  HEAVEN  AND  EARTH   (FENG  SHAN)  121 

XXII.   MEMORIAL,  PART  I   (THE  CHANG  AND  THE  PIAo)  1 26 

XXIII.   MEMORIAL,  PART  II    (THE  TSOU  AND  THE  CH'l)  I30 

XXIV.  DISCUSSION  AND  ANSWER  (THE  I  AND  THE  TUl)  I36 


x  Contents 

XXV.   EPISTOLARY  WRITING    (THE  SHU  AND  THE  CHl)  144 

XXVI.   SPIRITUAL   THOUGHT    OR    IMAGINATION    (sHEN-SSu)  154 

XXVII.   STYLE  AND  NATURE  (t'i-HSINg)  I58 

XXVIII.  THE  WIND  AND  THE  BONE  (FENG-Ku)  162 

XXIX.   FLEXIBLE    ADAPTABILITY    TO    VARYING    SITUATIONS    (t'uNG- 

pien)  165 

xxx.  on  choice  of  style  1 69 

xxxi.  emotion  and  literary  expression  174 
xxxii.  casting   and  cutting,  or,  on  editing   of   ideas  and 

RHETORIC   (jUNG-Ts'Al)  179 

XXXIII.   MUSICALNESS  182 

XXXIV.   PARAGRAPH  AND  SENTENCE  1 86 

XXXV.   LINGUISTIC  PARALLELISM  I9O 

XXXVI.   METAPHOR  AND  ALLEGORY   (PI  AND  HSING)  I95 

XXXVII.  EMBELLISHMENT  AS  DESCRIPTION  I98 

XXXVIII.   FACTUAL  ALLUSION  AND  TEXTUAL  REFERENCE  202 

XXXIX.   PHILOLOGY  AND  CHOICE  OF  WORDS  208 

XL.   THE  RECONDITE  AND  THE  CONSPICUOUS   (YIN-HSIu)  214 

XLI.  LITERARY  FLAWS  21 6 

XLII.  THE  NOURISHING  OF  VITALITY  222 

XLIII.   ORGANIZATION   (FU-HUl)  225 

XLIV.  DISCUSSION  ON  THE  ART  OF  WRITING   (TSUNG-SHu)  229 

XLV.  LITERARY  DEVELOPMENT  AND  TIME   (sHIH-HSu)  233 

XLVI.   THE  PHYSICAL  WORLD  245 

XLVII.  LITERARY  TALENTS  249 

XLVIII.   AN  UNDERSTANDING  CRITIC    (cHIH-YIN)  258 

XLIX.  THE  CAPACITY  OF  A  VESSEL  (ch'eNG-CH'i)  264 


Glossary 
Index 


269 
277 


INTRODUCTION 


Liu  Hsieh  (c.  A.D.  465-522),  in  his  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung,  or  The  Literary 
Mind  and  the  Carving  of  Dragons,  gives  a  comprehensive  treatment 
of  literary  theories  and  critical  opinions  from  the  earliest  period  to  his 
own  time.  As  a  critic,  his  genius  is  demonstrated  by  the  exhaustive  and 
penetrating  manner  in  which  he  deals  with  literary  and  rhetorical 
problems.  For  a  better  understanding  of  his  insight,  a  brief  survey  of 
the  development  of  literary  criticism  in  ancient  China  will  be  of  great 
help,  for  here  we  shall  find  the  main  sources  of  his  inspiration. 

Literary  opinions  in  ancient  China  developed  and  expanded  as 
literary  writing  advanced.  The  first  traces  of  such  opinions  are  found 
in  the  Boo\  of  History.  "Poetry  is  the  expression  of  sentiments,  and 
songs  are  these  expressions  set  to  music.  Tones  are  prolonged  according 
to  rules  of  prosody  and  intervals  chosen  according  to  rules  of  har- 
mony."1 This  theory  of  poetry  as  the  expression  of  sentiments  was  to 
exert  a  tremendous  influence  upon  subsequent  critics.  The  idea  was  first 
elaborated  in  the  "Great  Preface"  to  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  believed  to  be 
the  work  of  Wei  Hung  of  the  Later  Han  (flourishing  about  A.D.  25). 
Since  then  it  has  appeared  in  one  form  or  another  in  the  works  of  the 
most  important  critics,  including  Lu  Chi  of  the  Chin  (261-303),  and 
Liu  Hsieh  and  Chung  Hung  of  the  Liang  (flourishing  during  the 
latter  part  of  the  fifth  and  the  first  part  of  the  sixth  centuries).  Poetry 
was  conceived  to  be  predominantly  lyrical  in  nature,  and  intimately 
linked  to  music.  The  songs  and  odes  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  conform 
very  well  to  this  pattern — a  pattern  which  may  be  considered  purely 
literary. 

The  philosophical  period  in  ancient  China  was  in  many  ways  analo- 
gous to  the  golden  era  of  classical  Greece.  Many  incidental  remarks 
on  literature  were  made  by  philosophers,  whose  primary  interest  was 
not  in  literature  as  such,  but  rather  in  philosophical  truth.  Thus  their 

1  S hangs hu  t'ung-chien   (Peking,  1936),  02/0681-0692. 


xii  Introduction 

critical  judgment  was  basically  ethical  rather  than  esthetic.  In  China, 
Confucius  and  others  after  him  valued  art  chiefly  for  its  moral  effect 
on  the  conduct  of  the  people,  frequently  mixing  moral  with  literary 
and  poetic  issues.  In  Greece  Plato,  alarmed  by  the  unhealthy  effect  of 
poetry,  banished  poets  from  his  city  state.  Of  the  two,  Confucius  was 
perhaps  the  more  enlightened.  He  not  only  included  poetry  as  one  of 
his  main  texts  for  instruction  but  also  told  his  son  and  disciples  to 
study  and  imitate  its  disciplined  artistry  in  order  to  improve  their 
ability  to  express  themselves.2  He  also  reminded  his  students  of  the 
importance  of  literary  ornament,  without  which  truth  will  not 
travel  far.3 

This  apparent  love  of  beauty  of  form  on  the  part  of  Confucius, 
however,  is  completely  overbalanced  by  his  underlying  utilitarian 
motive.  This  utilitarian  attitude  is  most  clearly  indicated  by  his  remarks 
on  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  He  said: 

The  odes  can  stimulate  the  mind,  train  the  observation,  encourage  social 
intercourse,  and  enable  one  to  give  vent  to  his  complaint.  From  them  one 
may  learn  how  to  fulfil  the  immediate  duty  to  one's  father,  and  the  remote 
duty  to  one's  ruler.  And  in  them  one  may  become  widely  acquainted  with 
the  names  of  birds,  beasts,  plants,  and  trees.4 

Once  he  characterized  the  whole  Boo\  of  Poetry  by  one  single  line: 
"It  has  no  undisciplined  thought."5  The  virtues  of  the  Poetry  being  such, 
no  Aristotelian  defense  of  the  poetic  art  is  necessary. 

However,  it  would  be  unjust  to  say  that  Confucius  lacked  esthetic 
appreciation  and  sensitivity.  We  are  told  that  at  one  time  he  was  so 
enthralled  by  the  beauty  of  the  Shao6  that  for  three  months  he  did  not 
know  the  taste  of  meat.7  This  subjective  experience,  however,  did  not 
influence  his  attitude  toward  art.  Because  of  his  authority  elsewhere, 
his  didacticism  was  also  firmly  established  as  one  of  the  chief  traditions 
in  the  field  of  literary  criticism. 

2  Li-chi  yin-te,  32/26. 

3  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  307/Hsiang  25,  fu  2. 

4  Lun-yii  yin-te,  36/17/8.  5  Ibid.,  2/2/2. 

6  A  musical  score  attributed  to  Shun,  one  of  the  legendary  rulers. 

7  Lun-yii  yin-te,  12/7/14. 


Introduction  xiii 

After  Confucius  came  Mencius  and  Hsiintzu,  who  continued  to 
perpetuate  and  develop  this  tradition.  Both  Mencius  and  Hsiintzu  were 
classical  scholars,  quoting  the  Six  Classics  extensively  in  their  works. 
In  their  discourse  on  the  Poetry,  both  emphasized  the  ethical  and  cul- 
tural values  as  did  the  Master.  Mencius,  however,  with  his  idealism 
and  mystical  leanings,  was  able  to  adopt  a  freer  approach  to  literary 
problems.  Maintaining  that  the  Poetry  should  be  elucidated  in  an 
enlightened  manner,  he  said: 

Therefore,  those  who  comment  upon  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  should  not  because 
of  one  term  misconstrue  the  meaning  of  a  sentence,  and  should  not  because 
of  a  sentence  misconstrue  the  original  idea.  They  must  try  with  their 
thoughts  to  meet  that  idea,  and  then  they  will  apprehend  it.8 

This  plan  for  a  freer  interpretation  of  creative  literature  displays  an 
insight  unique  in  antiquity. 

It  is  true  that  a  purely  intuitive  or  subjective  judgment  is  extremely 
hazardous  and  in  many  instances  nothing  more  than  a  wild  guess,  too 
farfetched  to  be  valid.  Very  often  it  is  the  personal  impression  of  the 
critic,  expressive  of  his  emotional  approval  or  disapproval.  However, 
a  subjective  judgment  is  not  entirely  without  merit.  At  a  time  when 
criticism  was  still  in  its  infancy,  sincere  opinion  was  a  contribution 
in  itself.9 

The  evil  of  Mencius'  subjective  approach  is  mitigated  somewhat  by 
another  theory  of  his  that  a  work  should  not  be  considered  in  isolation, 
but  in  the  total  context  of  the  life  and  time  of  the  author.10  Unfortu- 
nately, not  many  critics  who  believe  in  subjective  criticism  and  intuitive 
evaluation  are  able  to  balance  their  view  by  a  historical  consideration 
as  Mencius  advocated.11 

An  even  more  important  contribution  is  contained  in  the  famous 
theory  of  yang-ch'i,  the  fostering  of  the  vital  spirit  or  breath.  The  nature 

8  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  36/5A/4. 

9  The  evil  effect  of  this  subjective  criticism  will  be  clearly  seen  when  we  come  to  deal 
with  the  "Prefaces"  to  the  Boof{  of  Poetry. 

10  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  42/5B/8. 

11  Cheng  Hsiian  of  the  Later  Han  wrote  his  Shih-p'u  on  the  basis  of  historical  criticism. 


xiv  Introduction 

of  this  breath  or  spirit  (ch'i),  as  conceived  by  Mencius,  is  clearly 
ethical.  Mencius  said, 

Such  is  the  breath  (ch'i):  it  is  most  great  and  most  strong.  Being  fostered 
by  uprightness  and  sustaining  no  injury,  it  fills  up  all  between  heaven  and 
earth. 

Such  is  the  breath:  it  is  the  correlate  of  righteousness  (j)  and  moral 
principle  (tao).  Without  it  man  is  starved.  It  is  produced  by  the  accumula- 
tion of  righteous  deeds,  and  not  to  be  obtained  by  incidental  acts  of 
righteousness.12 

It  is  clear  that  the  term  ch'i  (breath,  or  vital  life  or  spirit)  stands  for 
that  moral  quality  which  is  attained  through  a  moral  life.  Yet  in  a  later 
development,  it  seems  to  have  undergone  a  shift  in  meaning,  a  shift 
from  the  moralistic  pure  and  simple  to  a  sense  which  is  at  once  moral 
and  esthetic.  It  is  in  this  latter  sense  that  the  term  ch'i  achieved  promi- 
nence in  literary  and  critical  nomenclature,  for  it  became  a  criterion  by 
which  both  the  talent  of  a  writer  and  the  quality  of  his  work  were 
judged  and  appraised. 

Hsiintzu  held  a  more  practical  view  of  literature  than  did  Mencius. 
To  him,  the  only  validity  of  literature  lies  in  its  usefulness,  an  opinion 
originally  found  in  Confucius  and  further  strengthened  by  the  utili- 
tarian Mohists.  However,  being  concerned  with  the  principle  of  social 
conduct  and  the  ways  and  means  of  producing  social  harmony,  Hsiintzu 
was  able  to  see  some  value  in  wen-hsiieh,  i.e.,  literature,  in  its  beauti- 
fying effect  upon  man's  character.13  The  problem  here  is  the  sense  in 
which  he  used  the  term  wen-hsueh,  generally  translated  "literature." 
From  the  context  it  seems  clear  that  Hsiintzu  meant  by  it  learning  in 
general.  The  concept  of  literature  as  we  understand  it  today  was  not 
clearly  delineated  until  the  Han  period.  Prior  to  the  Han,  the  concept 
of  pure  literature  did  not  seem  to  have  emerged  except  when  poetry 
was  specifically  referred  to.  This  lack  of  a  clear  distinction  between 
literature  and  learning  may  have  been  one  of  the  reasons  why  poetry, 
which  had  a  glorious  start  as  pure  literature,  gradually  came  to  assume 

12  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  11/2A/2. 

13  Hsiintzu  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  19,  Chapter  27,  p.  334. 


Introduction  xv 

the  function  of  moral  didacticism.  This  is  nowhere  better  illustrated 
than  in  the  case  of  Hsiintzu  who,  more  than  anybody  else,  quoted  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry  at  every  turn  to  demonstrate  his  moral  points. 

As  a  philosopher,  Hsiintzu  was  naturalistic.  Despite  this  tendency, 
he  seems  to  have  probed  deep  into  the  origin  and  nature  of  creative 
activities,  and  to  have  emerged  in  the  end  with  a  reasonable  explana- 
tion of  the  psychology  of  creative  processes.  Observe  his  penetrating 
insight  in  his  discussion  of  the  principle  of  music: 

Music  is  the  expression  of  joy.  This  is  something  which  human  feelings 
made  unavoidable.  For  man  cannot  be  without  joy.  And  when  there  is  joy, 
it  must  be  expressed  in  sound  and  given  embodiment  through  movement 
and  repose.  This  is  the  way  with  man.  In  sounds,  movements,  and  pauses 
are  expressed  all  the  changes  in  his  mood.  Hence  man  cannot  be  without 
joy,  and  when  there  is  joy,  it  must  have  a  physical  embodiment.  When  this 
embodiment  does  not  conform  to  right  principles,  there  will  be  disorder. 
The  early  kings  hated  disorder,  and  so  they  established  the  music  of  the 
Ya  and  Sung  to  guide  it.  They  caused  its  music  to  be  joyful  and  not  to 
degenerate,  and  its  beauty  to  be  distinct  and  not  limited.  They  caused  it  in 
its  indirect  and  direct  appeals,  its  completeness  and  simplicity,  its  frugality 
and  richness,  its  rests  and  notes  to  stir  up  the  goodness  in  men's  minds  and 
to  prevent  evil  feelings  from  gaining  any  foothold.  This  is  the  manner  in 
which  the  early  kings  established  music.14 

The  function  of  music,  accordingly,  is  to  regulate  and  harmonize 
human  emotions,  and  this  inner  harmony  serves  as  the  basis  for  the 
achievement  of  social  harmony  through  //,  the  principle  of  social  con- 
duct which  is  the  outer  counterpart  of  the  inner  principle  of  yueh,  or 
music.  In  view  of  the  intimate  relation  between  music  and  poetry, 
Hsiintzu's  theory  could  not  but  exercise  great  influence  on  subsequent 
poetics. 

Not  all  philosophers  shared  this  didactic  view  of  poetry  with  the 
Confucians.  Taoism,  with  its  principle  of  Tao  in  the  realm  of  meta- 

14  Ibid.,  chiian  14,  Chapter  20,  p.  252.  Bodde's  translation  of  Fung  Yu-lan's  History 
of  Chinese  Philosophy  (Princeton  University  Press,  1952),  I,  342.  The  first  four  lines  are 
also  found  in  the  Li-chi  with  minor  modification,  suggesting  a  different  reading,  which 
seems  to  make  better  sense.  On  this  basis  I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  making  some  changes 
in  the  translation. 


xvi  Introduction 

physics  and  the  principle  of  nonaction  on  the  plane  of  experience, 
would  have  nothing  to  do  with  either  institution  or  words.  Therefore, 
in  the  Taoist  system  of  thought,  there  is  no  room  for  literature,  because 
for  the  Taoists  language  oftener  obstructs  than  assists  the  communica- 
tion of  ideas;  it  is  to  be  tolerated  only  as  a  suggestive  aid  to  the 
attainment  of  truth,  and  to  be  discarded  the  moment  truth  is  obtained. 
The  inability  of  language  to  convey  truth  is  imbedded  in  the  very 
nature  of  language  itself.  Language  is  a  system  of  symbols  designed 
for  the  communication  of  ideas  born  of  common  experience.  But  truth, 
according  to  the  Taoists,  is  a  mystical  state  which,  being  unique,  cannot 
be  expressed  in  language  devised  for  the  conveyance  of  experience 
common  to  all  who  use  the  same  language.  But  paradoxically,  it  was 
Chuangtzu,  the  most  noted  Taoist,  who  wrote  some  of  the  most 
imaginative  literature  of  his  time,  and  provided  the  literary  world 
with  vivid  descriptions  of  his  mystical  insight  into  the  inner  process 
of  creation.  His  philosophical  writings,  essentially  mystical  in  nature 
and  allegorical  in  form,  are  characterized  with  distinct  originality  and 
unique  spontaneity.  They  are  further  marked  by  a  keen  poetic  sensi- 
tivity and  an  acute  esthetic  awareness,  qualities  extremely  rare  in  an 
age  suffering  from  stifling  dogmatism  and  paucity  of  imagination. 

The  transcendental  mysticism  which  permeates  all  of  Chuangtzu's 
works  finally  crystallizes  in  the  concept  of  shen  (the  spiritual  or 
divine),  which  has  since  become  the  most  important  word  in  our 
critical  terminology.  The  supreme  state  of  shen  is  sometimes  described 
as  the  "realm  of  pure  experience."  It  is  true  that  both  Mencius  and 
Chuangtzu  held  mystical  experience  as  the  highest  aim  of  self-cultiva- 
tion, but  their  means  of  reaching  this  ultimate  goal  are  different.  In  the 
case  of  Mencius,  it  was  through  "an  accumulation  of  righteous  deeds," 
or  to  be  more  specific,  through  acting  "with  a  vigorous  effort  at 
altruism."  But  Chuangtzu,  instead  of  following  the  conventional  ethical 
approach,  which  he  openly  condemned,  took  an  intuitive  and  mystical 
approach.  The  life  of  "pure  experience"  is  a  state  which  transcends 
both  the  human  senses  and  the  intellect,  a  state  in  which  one  forgets 
the  entire  world,  including  his  own  existence.  In  such  a  state,  one 


Introduction  xvii 

attains  that  sudden  enlightenment  in  which  one  experiences  union  with 
the  universe.  Such  is  Chuangtzu's  mysticism,  and  such  is  his  vision 
of  the  Supreme  State. 

His  concept  of  shen,  when  applied  to  the  process  of  creation,  led 
him  to  another  vision  which  is  equally  mystical  and  equally  trans- 
cendental, that  is,  the  vision  of  an  effortless  creativity  born  of  perfect 
understanding  and  comprehension.  This  creativity  is  illustrated  in 
parables  of  the  Master  Butcher,  the  Wheelwright,  and  many  others.15 
It  is  a  process  which  the  artist  intuits  but  is  unable  either  to  describe 
or  to  impart. 

Chuangtzu,  in  his  outspoken  condemnation  of  all  established  institu- 
tions, including  language  itself,  challenged  the  very  standards  which 
provided  the  primary  tests  of  literary  values  of  his  time.  In  so  doing, 
he  foreshadowed  a  fresh  outlook  in  art  and  a  new  esthetic  interest  in 
later  generations.  If  Confucius  contributed  the  essential  ethical  basis 
for  traditional  criticism  in  China,  Chuangtzu  awakened  an  esthetic 
sensitivity  which  is  even  more  essential  to  literary  criticism.  Moreover, 
the  term  shen  is  responsible  for  a  highly  mystical  and  impressionistic 
interpretation  of  literature  which  has  assumed  an  equally  important 
role  in  the  history  of  Chinese  literary  criticism. 

The  Former  Han  period  is  relatively  barren  as  far  as  literary  theory 
is  concerned.  The  supremacy  of  Han  Confucianism,  which  was  brought 
about  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Wu  (141-87  B.C.)  through  the 
influence  of  Tung  Chung-shu  (flourishing  179-93  B.C.),  may  be  con- 
sidered the  crowning  stage  of  an  effort  at  the  unification  of  thought 
initiated  during  the  time  of  the  first  emperor  of  the  preceding  Ch'in 
dynasty.  Such  a  unification  may  have  stifled  individual  initiative  during 
that  time,  for  Confucius,  from  being  honored  simply  as  a  great  teacher, 
was  finally  canonized  as  a  deity,  and  his  words  became  sacred  utter- 
ances to  be  reverentially  followed  with  unquestioning  faith. 

However,  the  dearth  of  critical  speculations  does  not  imply  paucity 
of  literary  creation.  There  were  writers  in  plenty  who,  under  the 
influence  of  the  Ch'u  poets,  wrote  a  type  of  melodic  and  highly  adorned 

15  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  7-8/3/2-12;  36/13/68-74. 


xviii  Introduction 

prose  known  as  the  fu.  This  outburst  of  literary  activity  brought  about 
a  clear  conception  of  literature  as  distinct  from  learning  in  general. 
From  now  on  we  can  speak  of  literature  without  a  feeling  of  uncer- 
tainty as  to  what  is  meant  by  the  term. 

Rich  experience  in  writing  is  often  a  sine  qua  non  to  a  profound 
understanding  of  the  nature  of  literature.  The  conception  of  "the  mind 
of  fu"  held  by  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  (c.  179-117  B.C.)  seems  to  confirm 
this.  When  people  questioned  Ssu-ma  as  to  the  nature  of  fu,  he  is 
reported  to  have  said: 

The  form  which  we  create  by  means  of  weaving  and  the  substance  which 
we  cause  to  body  forth  in  brocade  are  the  results  of  the  interlacing  of  the 
warp  and  the  woof  and  the  organizing  of  \ung  and  shang  [i.e.,  musical 
tones].  These  are  the  external  traces  of  the  fu.  But  the  mind  of  a  fu  writer 
encompasses  the  whole  universe,  and  holds  in  its  view  everything  from 
human  beings  to  the  inanimate  world.  This  encompassing  vision  is  born 
within,  and  is  not  to  be  transmitted.16 

Later,  Yang  Hsiung  (53  B.C.-A.D.  18)  spoke  of  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju's 
fu  as  "not  from  the  human  world."  For  to  Yang,  it  was  divine:  "It  is 
the  product  of  one  who  has  attained  the  state  of  spiritual  transforma- 
tion."17 Here  we  see  a  community  of  spirit  between  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju 
and  Chuangtzu  in  the  conception  of  shen,  which  was  later  expressed 
by  Wei-wen  (Ts'ao  P'ei,  187-226)  in  his  conception  of  ch'i. 

The  years  between  the  Former  and  the  Later  Han  are  important 
years  in  the  annals  of  Chinese  literary  criticism.  We  have  mentioned 
Wei  Hung's  elaboration  of  the  classical  definition  of  poetry,  and  Cheng 
Hsuan's  application  of  Mencius's  historical  method  to  his  own  con- 
sideration and  arrangement  of  poems  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  Let  us 
dwell  a  little  more  fully  on  Wei  Hung. 

Wei  Hung's  elaboration  of  the  classical  definition  of  poetry  as  the 
expression  of  the  sentiments  led  to  another  important  theory  of  literary 
development,   which   Wei   treated   in   his   "Great  Preface,"18   a  most 

16  Hsi-ching  cha-chi  (Han-wei  ts'ung-shu  ed.),  chiian  2,  pp.  4b-5a. 

17  Ibid.,  chiian  3,  p.  6a. 

18  Shen  Chung  of  the  Northern  Chou  (500-583)  attributed  the  "Great  Preface"  to 
Tzu-hsia,  a  disciple  of  Confucius;  Fan  Yeh  of  Liu  Sung  (398-445),  in  his  Hou-han-shu, 


Introduction  xix 

important  document  in  the  annals  of  literary  criticism.  He  believed 
that  the  nature  of  poetry  was  determined  by  the  nature  of  government. 
The  intimate  relationship  between  poetry  and  government  was  thought 
to  be  derived  from  the  fact  that,  since  the  function  of  poetry  is  to 
express  the  sentiments,  and  since  we  must  assume  the  sentiments  to  be 
genuine  and  the  expression  spontaneous,  poetry  becomes  the  most 
concrete  and  articulate  manifestation  of  the  people's  attitude  toward 
the  government.  If  the  government  is  good,  poetry  will  reflect  joy  and 
satisfaction;  and  if  the  government  is  bad,  poetry  will  reflect  the 
people's  resentment  and  complaint.  We  must  give  the  ancient  rulers 
credit  for  being  shrewd  enough  to  go  to  poetry  for  information  about 
the  quality  of  local  government  and  the  feelings  of  the  people,  if  the 
tradition  concerning  the  collection  of  poetry  for  political  purposes  can 
be  trusted. 

As  a  descriptive  principle,  there  is  nothing  wrong  with  this  theory. 
It  is  just  a  special  application  of  the  general  theory  that  art,  however 
fortuitously,  reflects  life — a  meaningful  statement  even  in  modern 
times.  In  ancient  China,  this  theory  had  a  wider  application.  When 
Prince  Chi-cha  of  Wu  visited  the  state  of  Lu,  he  is  reported  to  have 
been  able  to  pass  perfect  judgment  on  the  government  of  different 
states  by  listening  to  their  music.19  But  when  a  critic  follows  this  theory 
in  his  interpretation  or  a  poet  attempts  to  conform  to  it,  the  theory 
exerts  a  harmful  influence.  Since  the  writing  of  the  "Great  and  Lesser 
Prefaces,"  beautiful  poems  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  have  been  so  bur- 
dened with  allegorical  and  moral  lessons  that  the  genuine  feelings 
expressed  in  them  are  completely  overlooked. 

As  a  corollary,  poetry  was  assigned  a  new  function  utterly  extraneous 
to  itself:  it  was  made  to  remonstrate  with  and  admonish  the  superior. 
For  it  was  believed  that  to  admonish  by  means  of  poetic  devices,  such 
as  metaphors,  allegories,  and  parables,  was  both  effective  and  safe. 
As  late  as  the  T'ang  dynasty,  we  still  find  Po  Chii-i  (772-846)  obsessed 


"Ju-lin  chuan,"  and  Cheng  Ch'iao  of  Sung  (1104-1162),  in  his  Shih-hsii  pien,  both  at- 
tributed it  to  Wei  Hung,  and  their  opinion  has  been  accepted  by  scholars. 
19  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  326-327/Hsiang  29/8  Tso. 


xx  Introduction 

with  the  desire  to  be  remembered  as  a  poet  who  has  given  the  world 
moral  insight  to  serve  as  a  guide  to  life. 

The  theory  that  art  reflects  the  conditions  of  the  time  presupposes 
extreme  sensitivity  on  the  part  of  the  artist  or  poet  to  the  ever-changing 
situations  and  needs  of  the  time.  Faced  with  such  a  fluid  world,  he 
naturally  varies  his  moods  in  response  to  it,  producing  quite  spontane- 
ously different  literary  and  artistic  forms.  All  this  is  either  well  de- 
scribed or  implied  in  Wei  Hung's  "Preface."  This  principle  has  been 
known  as  the  principle  of  flexible  adaptability.  But  strangely  enough, 
he  failed  to  take  the  one  step  more  which  would  have  awakened  him 
to  the  truth  that  any  effort  on  the  part  of  the  artist  or  poet,  in  the  face 
of  the  changing  need,  to  hold  on  to  the  ancient  truths  will  inevitably 
result  in  failure. 

It  was  also  in  these  years  that  classicism  was  reaffirmed  and  new  paths 
were  indicated.  Yang  Hsiung  (53  B.C.-A.D.  18)  may  be  said  to  be 
responsible  for  the  former  and  Wang  Ch'ung  for  the  latter. 

A  Confucian  scholar,  a  poet,  and  an  academician  turned  "critic," 
Yang  Hsiung  seemed  promising  as  a  critic  in  his  earlier  career  when 
he  enthusiastically  applauded  the  beautiful  fu  composed  by  Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju,  the  supreme  architect  of  fu  of  an  earlier  generation.  We  have 
seen  how  once  he  was  so  moved  by  Ssu-ma's  creative  talent  that  he 
believed  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju's  fu  not  to  have  come  from  this  human 
world  of  ours.  He  was  not  only  an  admirer  of  Hsiang-ju's  fu,  but  also 
an  ardent  imitator  of  his  style.  At  this  time  he  seemed  capable  of 
enjoying  what  is  of  sheer  beauty  and  pure  delight,  revealing  thus  his 
unmistakable  awareness  of  that  undefinable  act  of  intuition  or  vision 
out  of  which  all  art  originates.  His  description  of  the  works  of  Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju  as  shen-hua  (spiritual  or  divine  transformation)  marks  him 
as  a  believer  in  the  theory  that  a  genius  is  born  and  not  taught.  But 
with  this  pronouncement  came  the  end  of  the  early  phase  of  his 
critical  position. 

In  his  biography,  Yang  Hsiung  was  described  as  a  "lover  of  an- 
tiquity," a  phrase  which  reveals  his  final  allegiance  and  also  his  final 
critical  standpoint.  In  the  chapter  "Wu-tzu"  in  his  Fa-yen,  he  expressed 


Introduction  xxi 

deep  regret  for  having  wasted  his  youth  in  the  writing  of  fu,  and 
represented  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju's  fu,  which  once  elicited  from  him  so 
great  an  admiration,  as  beautiful  but  useless.20  He  wrote  the  T'ai-hsuan 
(The  great  mystery)  in  imitation  of  the  Boo\  of  Changes  and  the 
Tao-te  ching,  and  the  Fa-yen  (Model  sayings)  in  imitation  of  the 
Analects,  indulging  in  the  use  of  archaic  expressions  and  obsolete 
words.  This  love  of  pedantic  display  invoked  the  ire  both  of  his  con- 
temporaries and  of  later  writers.  Liu  Hsin  (c.  53  B.C.-A.D.  23),  a 
contemporary  and  friend,  described  his  works  as  fit  only  to  cover 
pickle  jars,  and  Su  Shih  of  the  Sung  (1036-1101)  believed  that  Yang 
Hsiung  was  trying  to  conceal  his  shallow  scholarship  behind  the  facade 
of  pedantry. 

The  influence  of  Yang  Hsiung's  classicism  on  his  criticism  is  clear. 
First  of  all,  Yang  Hsiung  returned  to  Confucius  as  the  source  of  all 
inspiration.  He  said, 

Books,  however  excellent,  are  just  bookstores  if  they  are  not  based  on  the 
principle  advocated  by  Confucius;  and  talks,  however  eloquent,  are  just  the 
sound  of  petty  bells  when  not  based  on  the  principle  advocated  by 
Confucius.21 

And  again, 

Mountain  paths  are  too  numerous  all  to  be  walked  over,  and  doors  in  walls 
are  too  numerous  all  to  be  entered.  So  it  may  be  asked,  "By  what  is  one  to 
walk  or  enter?"  I  reply,  "By  Confucius.  Confucius  is  the  door."22 

Secondly,  he  returned  to  the  Classics  as  the  source  of  all  wisdom. 
He  said, 

For  discussing  heaven,  there  is  nothing  more  discerning  than  the  Boo\  of 
Changes.  For  discussing  human  affairs,  there  is  nothing  more  discerning 
than  the  Boo\  of  History.  For  discussing  the  essential,  there  is  nothing  more 
discerning  than  the  Boo\  of  Rites.  For  discussing  sentiments,  there  is 
nothing  more  discerning  than  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  For  discussing  principles, 
there  is  nothing  more  discerning  than  the  Annals  of  Spring  and  Autumn.23 
As  a  result,  Yang  Hsiung  adopted  the  simple  and  unadorned  style  of 

20  Yang  Hsiung,  Fa-yen   (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  2,  p.   4. 

21  Ibid.,  p.  6.  22  Ibid.,  p.  5.  23  Ibid.,  chiian  7,  p.  19. 


xxii  Introduction 

the  Classics,  the  style  advocated  first  in  the  Boo\  of  History:  "In  the 
choice  of  language  one  should  emphasize  the  essential  and  should  not 
indulge  in  the  extraordinary.24  In  pronouncing  that  books  which  did 
not  follow  the  style  of  the  Classics  were  no  books  and  words  which 
did  not  conform  to  the  style  of  the  Classics  were  no  words,  for  these 
were  useless,25  he  had  definitely  reduced  criticism  to  a  set  of  dogmas 
which  were  to  become  infallible  rules  among  writers  and  critics  for  a 
long  time  to  come.  He  may  be  compared  to  the  Scaligers,  the  Johnsons, 
and  the  Popes  of  the  West.  But  like  them,  Yang  Hsiung  also  succeeded 
in  imparting  to  later  generations  a  sense  of  perspective,  a  consciousness 
of  traditions  and  a  literary  taste  strengthened  through  an  assimilation 
of  the  Classics. 

Slightly  later  than  Yang  Hsiung,  another  Confucian  scholar  was  also 
occupied  with  the  ethical  content  and  utilitarian  function  of  literature. 
Wang  Ch'ung  (A.D.  27-c.  100)  was,  however,  more  concerned  with 
history  and  philosophy.  This  preoccupation  caused  him  to  blur  the 
distinction  between  pure  literature  and  other  forms  of  scholarly  writ- 
ings, reverting  thus  to  the  pre-Han  conception  of  "literature."  Hence 
it  was  philosophy  and  history  that  he  had  in  mind  when  he  asserted 
that  all  literature  should  be  good  and  true,  and  should  aim  to  instruct. 
This,  however,  did  not  blind  him  to  the  beauty  of  literature.  To  him 
all  that  is  good  and  true  was  beautiful,  requiring  no  additional  labor 
to  perfect  it.  And  yet  he  would  not  go  the  whole  way  with  Keats  and 
chant  that  truth  is  beauty  and  beauty  is  truth.  Wang's  concern  with 
historical  truth  committed  him  to  a  type  of  realism  which  condemned 
all  kinds  of  literary  exaggeration  and  embellishment  that  did  not 
correspond  to  truth.26  It  is  apparent  that,  despite  his  esthetic  interest,  he 
still  considered  truth  the  essence  of  literature,  and  this  essence  deter 
mined  for  him  both  the  quality  and  the  form  of  literature. 

By  nature  and  interest,  Wang  Ch'ung  was  an  excellent  historian.  His 
daring  theory  of  history  displays  a  liberalism  unique  in  an  age  of 

24  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  44/0218-0225. 

25  Yang  Hsiung,  Fa-yen,  chiian  5,  p.  14. 

26  For  his  criticism  of  exaggeration,  see  the  following  three  chapters  in  his  Lun-heng: 
"Yu-tseng,"  "I-tseng,"  and  Ju-tseng." 


Introduction  xxiii 

dogmatism.  When  most  of  the  writers  were  idealizing  antiquity  and 
slavishly  imitating  the  Classics,  he  alone  set  out  to  attack  that  attitude. 
He  said, 

Those  who  in  ancient  times  gave  good  government  were  sages,  and  those 
who  in  later  times  have  given  good  government  are  likewise  sages.27 

Again, 

Narrators  of  events  like  to  exalt  antiquity  and  disparage  the  present;  they 
esteem  what  they  know  through  hearsay  and  slight  what  they  themselves 
see.  Debaters  discourse  on  what  is  long  ago,  and  men  of  letters  write  on 
what  is  far  away.  The  wonderful  things  near  at  hand  the  debaters  do  not 
mention,  and  the  extraordinary  events  of  our  own  time  the  writers  do 
not  record.28 

In  these  words  he  broke  away  from  the  orthodox  view  of  history  that 
had  hitherto  dominated  and  still  continued  to  dominate  the  minds  of 
the  writers  in  ancient  China.  Not  only  did  he  single  out  this  traditional 
attitude  for  attack,  but  he  even  went  so  far  as  to  assert  that  the  present 
is  better  than  the  past.  He  said, 

As  far  as  the  actual  transformation  effected  by  virtues  are  concerned,  the 
Chou  dynasty  (noo  B.C.-256  B.C.)  cannot  exceed  the  Han  (206  B.C.- 
A.D.  220),  whereas  if  we  speak  about  auspicious  omens  and  prognostica- 
tions, the  Han  excels  the  Chou.  And  if  we  measure  their  extent  of  territory, 
that  of  Chou  was  more  limited  than  that  of  Han.  How  then  is  the  Han  not 
equal  to  the  Chou?  It  may  only  be  claimed  that  the  Chou  had  many  sages, 
whose  government  brought  about  universal  peace.  But  the  literati,  in 
acclaiming  the  sages,  go  too  far,  placing  them  on  such  pedestals  that  their 
actual  traces  are  lost.  In  acclaiming  their  government  they  are  also  too 
fulsome,  treating  of  universal  peace  as  something  that  has  been  cut  off  and 
has  had  no  continuation.29 

In  short,  history  is  progressive.  To  be  realistic,  literature  has  to  be 
progressive  too.  Here  we  have  an  inkling  of  the  principle  of  flexible 
adaptability  to  the  varying  needs  of  a  changing  world.  We  shall  see  this 
tendency  to  change  reappear  in  Ke  Hung  of  the  Chin  (c.  250-330). 

27  Lun-heng,  "Ch'i-shih  p'ien,"  p.  185.  2sIhid.,  p.  187. 

29  Ibid.,  "Hsiian-han  p'ien,"  p.  191.  Translations  from  the  Lun-heng  are  adapted  from 
Bodde's.  See  Fung  Yu-lan,  History  of  Chinese  Philosophy,  II,  158-59. 


xxiv  Introduction 

During  the  subsequent  four  centuries — the  Three  Kingdoms,  the 
Wei  and  Chin,  the  Southern  and  Northern  dynasties  after  the  collapse 
of  the  Han  Empire  (220-589)— China  was  divided  into  many  small 
states  and  dynasties,  each  in  power  for  a  short  period  and  then  giving 
way  to  others  equally  ephemeral.  The  land  was  constantly  engulfed  in 
warfare  and  political  chaos;  social  upheaval  and  economic  disruption 
were  the  order  of  the  day.  Yet,  paradoxically,  out  of  these  chaotic  condi- 
tions and  destructive  forces  a  most  constructive  phase  of  critical  and 
creative  vitality  emerged.  Among  the  various  stages  in  the  history  of 
Chinese  criticism,  this  period  of  disunity  may  be  considered  the  most 
creative  period. 

At  a  time  when  all  standards  seemed  to  have  collapsed,  Confu- 
cianism likewise  lost  the  prominent  position  which  it  enjoyed  during 
the  Han  times.  It  is  true  that  people  still  paid  lip  service  to  it,  but  many 
scholars  and  creative  artists,  disillusioned  and  embittered,  turned  more 
and  more  to  Taoism  and  Buddhism.  Literature,  with  a  new  emphasis 
on  linguistic,  tonal  and  formal  structures,  seemed  to  have  come  into  its 
own,  and  its  function  became  more  esthetic  in  nature  than  morally 
didactic.  An  increasing  interest  in  esthetic  experience  is  shown  in  the 
writers'  attempt  to  penetrate  further  into  the  nature  of  the  creative 
process. 

This  esthetic  awareness  brought  about  the  distinction  between  pure 
literature  {wen)  and  useful  literature  {pi).  And  this  distinction,  once 
achieved,  deepened  the  awareness  which  gave  birth  to  it.  The  vivified 
consciousness  was  then  able  to  lead  creative  literature  and  critical 
analysis  to  a  new  height  of  productivity.  Many  poets  now  found  their 
primary  occupation  in  verse  writing;  others,  more  scholarly,  gave  their 
attention  to  literary  anthologies.  Due  to  this  sudden  expansion  of 
literary  output,  an  increasing  demand  for  critical  judgment  was  felt. 
With  the  growing  complexities  of  literature,  which  brought  with  them 
new  problems,  a  re-examination  of  the  basic  principle  of  criticism 
became  urgent,  and  it  is  not  at  all  surprising  that  a  movement  of 
intensified  critical  analysis  arose. 

In  both  the  West  and  in  China,  emperors  and  princes  often  played 


Introduction  xxv 

a  prominent  role  as  patrons  of  art.  It  was  under  the  patronage  of  the 
great  Medicis  that  Renaissance  art  flourished  in  Europe.  And  in  China, 
there  emerged  during  the  dark  age  of  political  disunity  a  number  of 
emperors  and  princes  who  were  not  only  great  patrons  of  art  and 
literature  but  accomplished  writers  themselves.  The  real  founder  of 
the  Wei  dynasty,  Ts'ao  Ts'ao  (155-220)  was  a  competent  poet;  his 
younger  son  Ts'ao  Chih  (192-232)  a  poet  of  the  highest  calibre.  Another 
son,  Ts'ao  P'ei  (187-226),  who  usurped  the  throne  from  the  Han  and 
founded  the  Wei,  also  proved  himself  a  talented  poet  and  an  astute 
critic,  as  well  as  a  great  patron  of  literature.  He  wrote  the  famous 
critical  essay,  the  Tien-lun  lun-wen. 

The  ruling  house  of  the  Liang  dynasty  was  equally  known  for  its 
artistic  ability  and  interest  in  literature.  Hsiao  T'ung  (501-531),  who 
died  an  heir  apparent  and  the  patron  of  our  author  Liu  Hsieh,  com- 
piled the  famous  Wen-hsiian  (An  anthology  of  literature),  in  the 
preface  of  which  he  accounted  for  excluding  the  Classics  and  historical 
works  from  his  anthology,  the  reason  being  that  they  were  not  pure 
literature.  Although  the  ethical  considerations  still  prevailed,  they 
were  linked  to  esthetic  considerations.  Hsiao  T'ung's  younger  brother, 
Hsiao  Kang  (503-551),  who  succeeded  to  the  throne  in  550  and  met 
a  tragic  death  at  the  hands  of  a  traitor  in  the  following  year,  displayed 
a  pronounced  antitraditional  attitude  when  he  commissioned  Hsu 
Ling  (507-583)  to  compile  a  collection  of  contemporary  poems  under 
the  title  Yii-t'ai  hsin-yung  (Jade  terrace  new  songs).  These  exceedingly 
ornate  lyrical  poems,  marked  with  sensual  imagery,  are  anything  but 
proper  and  instructive. 

What  has  been  said  may  be  insufficient  to  explain  why  the  period  of 
disunity  became  an  important  period  in  literary  criticism,  but  it  serves 
to  show  the  atmosphere  in  which  the  critical  spirit  was  fostered. 

The  first  important  critic  who  is  to  engage  our  attention  has  already 
been  mentioned.  Ts'ao  P'ei,  in  his  Tien-lun  lun-wen  (Essay  on  litera- 
ture), made  the  first  attempt  to  define  the  specific  nature  of  some 
dominant  literary  genres.80  He  says: 

30  Ts'ao  P'ei:   "Tien-lun-wen,"   in   Wen-hsiian,  chiian    52. 


xxvi  Introduction 

Literary  compositions  are  all  derived  from  a  common  source,  but  they 
develop  into  different  forms.  The  tsou  and  i  [memorial  and  discussion] 
should  be  graceful;  the  shu  and  lun  [episde  and  essay]  should  be  logical; 
the  ming  and  lei  [inscription  and  elegy]  should  be  factual;  and  shih  and  fu 
[poetry  and  poetic  prose]  should  be  beautiful.31 

While  strictly  classical  in  his  definition  of  poetry,  he  had  gone  beyond 
the  scope  of  any  previous  work. 

The  essay  also  marks  the  beginning  of  a  systematic  evaluation  of  the 
works  of  seven  distinguished  poets  of  his  time,  known  collectively  in 
the  history  of  Chinese  literature  as  "Chien-an  ch'i-tzu"  (the  Seven 
Masters  of  the  chien-an  period,  196-220).  Ts'ao's  chief  contribution  to 
literary  theory  is  his  concept  of  ch'i  (breath  or  spirit),  a  term  he  bor- 
rowed from  Mencius.  Elevating  the  term  to  a  new  level  of  meaning, 
signifying  individual  talent,  he  further  classified  it  into  two  categories, 
the  clear  and  the  muddy.  Then  he  asserted  that  a  man  is  born  with 
his  talent,  which  cannot  be  handed  down  through  instruction.  The 
influence  of  Chuangtzu  is  evident,  for  the  nontransferable  quality  of 
talent  reminds  us  of  the  master  wheelwright's  grief  at  having  to  keep 
at  making  wheels  at  the  age  of  seventy  because  he  was  unable  to  impart 
his  knowledge  to  anyone  else,  not  even  his  own  son  and  younger 
brother.  In  Ts'ao  P'ei's  words,  "Even  a  father  or  an  elder  brother  can- 
not teach  his  son  or  younger  brother."32 

With  the  application  of  the  term  ch'i  to  literary  work  itself,  its 
meaning  seems  to  have  shifted,  for  it  now  denotes  a  literary  style.  Here 
Ts'ao  P'ei  perceived  that  talent  for  one  style  need  not  imply  talent  for 
any  other  style,  and  that  few  men  have  an  all-round  talent  for  all  the 
styles.  Therefore,  he  concluded,  every  poet  should  seek  the  style  which 
best  suits  his  special  talent.  And  then,  in  a  passage  as  incongruous  as 
a  dog's  tail  at  the  end  of  a  fox  fur,  he  spoke  of  literary  composition 
as  a  means  of  acquiring  eternal  fame.  It  is  unfortunate  that  this  became 
for  many  a  writer,  including  Liu  Hsieh,  a  dominant  motive  for 
writing  at  all. 

31  ibid.  32  ibid. 


Introduction  xxvii 

In  the  Chin  dynasty,  the  most  important  work  on  criticism  and 
rhetoric  is  Lu  Chi's  (261-303)  Wen-ju  (Essay  on  literature  in  the  form 
of  a  fu).  Scintillating  with  poetic  beauty  and  critical  insight,  the 
Wen-ju  is  a  landmark  in  the  history  of  Chinese  literary  criticism.  A 
poet  of  great  talent  himself,  Lu  Chi  revealed  the  subtle  and  mysterious 
nature  of  esthetic  experience  and  the  creative  process  with  a  clarity  and 
beauty  of  expression  that  are  seldom  excelled.  Convinced  that  the 
Wen-fu  must  be  read  to  be  appreciated,  I  shall  quote  a  few  passages 
from  the  remarkable  translation  by  Ch'en  Shih-hsiang33  to  show  the 
poet's  penetrating  insight  into  the  state  of  creativity. 
In  regard  to  creative  impulse  he  says, 

In  the  beginning, 
All  external  vision  and  sound  are  suspended, 
Perpetual  thought  itself  gropes  in  time  and  space; 
Then,  the  spirit  at  full  gallop  reaches  the  eight  limits  of 

the  cosmos, 
And  the  mind,  self-buoyant,  will  ever  soar  to  new  unsur- 
mountable  heights. 

When  the  search  succeeds, 
Feeling,  at  first  but  a  glimmer,  will  gradually  gather  into 

full  luminosity, 
Whence  all  objects  thus  lit  up  glow  as  if  each  the  other's 
light  reflects. 

On  the  arduous  process  of  preparation,  when  words,  expressions, 
images  and  metaphors  are  wrung  out  of  the  subconsciousness,  he  says: 

Hence, 
Arduously  sought  expressions,  hitherto  evasive,  hidden, 
Will  be  like  stray  fishes  out  of  the  ocean  bottom  to  emerge 

on  the  angler's  hook; 
And  quick-winged  metaphors,  fleeting,  far-fetched 
Feathered  tribes,  while  sky-faring  are  brought  down  from 

the  curl-clouds  by  the  fowler's  bow. 

33  All  quotations  are  taken  from  Ch'en  Shih-hsiang's  translation  of  Lu  Ch'i's  Wen-ju, 
entitled  Essay  on  Literature  (The  Anthoensen  Press,  Portland,  Maine,  1953).  See  note  13, 
"Preface,"  for  the  other  English  translations  of  this  work. 


xxviii  Introduction 

On  composition  he  says: 

A  composition  comes  into  being  as  the  incarnation  of 

many  living  gestures. 
It  is   (like  the  act  of  Tao)   the  embodiment  of  endless 

change. 
To  attain  Meaning,  it  depends  on  a  grasp  of  the  subtle, 
While  such  words  are  employed  as  best  serve  beauty's 

sake. 

One  of  the  most  penetrating  passages  in  the  fu  is  the  one  on  inspiration : 

Such  moments  when  Mind  and  Matter  hold  perfect 
communion, 

And  wide  vistas  open  to  regions  hitherto  entirely  barred, 

Will  come  with  irresistible  force, 

And  go,  their  departure  none  can  hinder. 

Hiding,  they  vanish  like  a  flash  of  light; 

Manifest,  they  are  like  sounds  arising  in  mid-air. 

So  acute  is  the  mind  in  such  instants  of  divine  compre- 
hension, 

What  chaos  is  there  that  it  cannot  marshal  in  miraculous 
order? 

While  winged  thoughts,  like  quick  breezes,  soar  from 
depths  of  the  heart, 

Eloquent  words,  like  a  gushing  spring,  flow  between  lips 
and  teeth. 

No  flower,  or  plant,  or  animal  is  too  prodigal  of  splendour 

To  recreate  under  the  writer's  pen, 

Hence  the  most  wondrous  spectacle  that  ever  whelmed 
the  eye, 

And  notes  of  the  loftiest  music  that  rejoiced  the  ear. 

But  of  all  the  lines  I  must  choose  the  following  as  a  superb  expression 
of  the  mysterious  source  of  an  artistic  impulse: 

For  it  is  Being,  created  by  tasking  the  Great  Void.34 
And  'tis  sound  rung  out  of  Profound  Silence. 

34  The  Chinese  character  here  rendered  as  "tasking"  literally  means  "to  try"  or  "to 
tax."  A  more  literal  translation  of  the  line  would  be:  "Tax  the  Void  or  nonbeing  to 
yield  Being"  (a  Taoist  conception). 


Introduction  xxix 

Lu  Chi  was  evidently  deeply  influenced  by  Chuangtzu's  concept  of 
nonbeing,  the  Great  Void,  the  supreme  state  which  is  not  only  the 
source  of  an  artistic  impulse,  but  also  the  ultimate  state  of  pure  experi- 
ence which  transcends  all  logic  and  words.  Lu  Chi  spoke  of  this  state 
as  "a  force  which  even  the  Master  Wheelwright  Pien  could  not  express 
in  words." 

Another  contribution  to  literary  history  made  by  Lu  Chi  is  his 
definitions  of  a  number  of  literary  genres,  definitions  which  are  much 
more  adequate  than  those  attempted  by  Ts'ao  P'ei  in  his  Tien-lun 
lun-wen.  He  says: 

The  Lyric  (Shih),  born  of  pure  emotion,  is  gossamer  fibre 

woven  into  the  finest  fabric; 
The  exhibitory  Essay  (Fu),  being  true  to  the  objects,  is 

vividness  incarnate; 
In  Monumental  Inscriptions  (Pei)  rhetoric  must  be  a  foil 

to  facts; 
The  Elegy  (Lai,  lei)  tenderly  spins  out  ceaseless  heartfelt 

grief. 
The  Mnemonic  (Ming)  is  a  smooth  flow  of  genial  phrases, 

succinct  but  pregnant; 
The  staccato  cadences  of  the  Epigram    (Chen)    are   all 

transparent  force. 
While  Eulogy  (Sung)  enjoys  the  full  abandon  of  grand 

style, 
The   Expository    (Lun)    must   in   exactitude   and   clarity 

excel. 
The    Memorial    (Tsou),    balanced    and    lucid,    must    be 

worthy  of  the  dignity  of  its  royal  audience, 
The  Argument  (Shuo)  with  glowing  words  and  cunning 

parables  persuades. 
Meticulous  as  these  classifications  are, 
Lest  passion  and  thought,  given  free  rein,  may  wantonly 

go  astray, 
The  maxim  holds:  Let  Truth  in  terms  most  felicitous  be 

spoken, 
While  of  verbiage  beware. 

At  the  same  time  we  find  Tso  Ssu  (?-c.  306)  developing  the  Classical 


xxx  Introduction 

definition  of  poetry  into  a  kind  of  realism.  In  the  preface  to  his  Three 
Capital  Fu  he  said  that  in  poetry  we  express  our  sentiments  and  in  fu 
we  describe  what  we  see.  If  we  deviate  from  these  fundamental  facts, 
that  is,  our  feelings  and  the  objective  world,  to  indulge  in  ornate 
expressions  and  fabrications,  such  as  the  fu  of  Ssu-ma  Hsiangju,  Yang 
Hsiung,  Pan  Ku,  Chang  Heng,  and  their  group,  in  which  are  men- 
tioned many  things  contrary  to  known  facts,  we  commit  a  crime  against 
truth.  This  attitude  explains  why  it  took  him  ten  years  to  complete  his 
Three  Capital  Fu,  for  he  needed  that  long  to  collect  and  verify  his 
facts.  It  would  seem  that  he  did  not  countenance  the  use  of  imagina- 
tion, the  very  soul  of  any  work  of  art,  including  literary  art.  Fortunately, 
he  did  not  follow  his  own  advice,  for  how  else  could  his  fu  have  caused 
the  price  of  paper  in  Lo-Yang  to  go  up?35 

Chih  Yii  (?-3i2),  following  the  lead  of  Ts'ao  P'ei  and  Lu  Chi,  made 
another  attempt  to  classify  literary  works  but,  like  Prince  Hsiao  T'ung 
later,  he  did  it  by  compiling  anthologies.  From  the  fragments  of  his 
work,  we  find  him  advocating  the  function  of  literature  as  the  depicting 
of  natural  scenes,  the  clarifying  of  human  relations,  the  extensive  study 
of  reason  and  human  nature,  and  ultimately,  the  determining  of  the 
proper  station  of  all  things.36  It  is  clear  that  his  view  of  literature  is  not 
a  pure  one.  It  includes  in  its  province  all  that  is  written,  in  much  the 
same  spirit  as  that  in  which  literature  was  later  conceived  by  Liu 
Hsieh,  the  author  of  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung.  It  is  also  clear  that  his  view 
is  a  utilitarian  one,  as  may  be  seen  from  his  conception  of  literary 
development  as  a  concomitant  to  the  changing  process  of  historical 
needs.37 

At  approximately  the  same  time,  Ke  Hung  (250-330)  applied  Wang 

85  See  his  biography  in  the  Chin-shu.  36   Ch'tian-chin-wen,  chuan  77. 

37  Many  other  attempts  at  literary  classification  were  made  at  this  time,  one  of  which 
was  the  Han-lin  lun  of  Li  Ch'ung  (c.  323).  The  work  has  not  come  down  to  us,  but  from 
Liu  Hsieh's  evaluation,  it  is  "shallow  and  of  little  consequence."  At  Liu  Hsieh's  own 
time,  Hsiao  T'ung,  reportedly  a  patron  of  Liu  Hsieh,  introduced  a  clear-cut  definition  of 
literature  by  including  in  his  anthology,  the  Wen-hsiian,  only  works  of  imagination  and 
art,  and  excluding  the  Classics,  philosophical,  and  historical  works.  He  might  have  been 
one  source  of  inspiration  to  Chung  Hung,  who  restricted  his  scope  still  further  to  that 
of  the  five-word-line  poetry.  But  he  exercised  little  or  no  influence  on  Liu  Hsieh,  who 
took  all  written  records   to  be  within   the  scope  of  literature. 


Introduction  xxxi 

Ch'ung's  progressive  theory  of  history  to  literary  criticism.  But  he 
displayed  a  liberalism  seldom  found  in  the  other  critics  of  the  time. 
He  did  not  attack  literary  embellishment  as  superfluous  and  useless, 
nor  did  he  prize  the  Classics  above  contemporary  literature.  On  the 
contrary,  he  asserted  unequivocally  that  current  compositions  were 
more  beautiful  than  the  ancient,  unadorned  or  simple  Classics,  and  that 
to  evolve  from  simplicity  to  beauty  of  form  was  a  natural  tendency.38 

On  the  question  of  which  is  more  important,  talent  or  discipline,  he 
entertained  a  balanced  view.  He  believed  that  natural  talent  and 
literary  discipline  complement  each  other.  The  importance  of  talent 
was  recognized  by  Ts'ao  P'ei,  and  that  of  discipline  by  Lu  Chi.  To 
Ke  Hung,  one  was  as  indispensable  as  the  other.  To  separate  them 
was  to  rob  each  of  its  vital  complement. 

Due  to  certain  characteristics  of  the  Chinese  language,  tonal  pattern 
has  always  occupied  the  attention  of  great  literary  writers.  Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju  considered  it  an  element  in  the  embellishment  of  the  fit,  and 
Lu  Chi  spoke  of  it  in  the  following  lines: 

The  interactions  of  sounds  and  tones  are  like 
The  five  colours  that  each  the  others  enhances.39 

Even  Chung  Hung,  who  wrote  scathingly  against  Shen  Yueh's  arbi- 
trary rules  for  the  sound  pattern,  acknowledged  the  natural  musical 
quality  of  the  language,  which  he  felt  should  be  spontaneously  applied 
by  the  poet.40  But  it  was  Shen  Yueh  (441-513)  and  his  group  who, 
dissatisfied  with  the  looseness  with  which  tones  and  sounds  had 
hitherto  been  employed  in  the  field  of  versification,  succeeded  in  formu- 
lating rules  governing  poetic  language.  These  rules  formed  a  body  of 
intricately  technical  prosodic  laws.  Nevertheless  they  were  accepted 
by  many  men  of  the  period,  including  Liu  Hsieh,  who  devoted  a 
chapter  in  his  Wen-hsin  (Chapter  XXXIII)  to  their  discussion. 

Since  Shen  Yueh  and  his  group  flourished  during  the  Yung-ming 
period   (483-493),  the  style,  in  accordance  with  their   tonal  laws,  is 

38  Ke  Hung,  Pao-p'u  tzu,  chiian  30,  pp.  155-156. 

39  Ch'en,  Essay  on  Literature,  p.  xxiv. 

40  Chung  Hung,  Shih-p'in  chu  (notation  by  Ch'en  Yen-chieh),  K'ai-ming  shu-chii 
(Shanghai,  1930),  pp.  8-9. 


xxxii  Introduction 

known  as  Yung-ming  ti,  or  the  style  of  the  Yung-ming  period.  In  spite 
of  some  opposition  from  writers  like  Chung  Hung,  these  tonal  laws, 
while  never  followed  to  the  letter,  not  even  by  Shen  Yueh  himself, 
were  destined  to  exercise  tremendous  influence  upon  the  prosody  of 
subsequent  ages,  particularly  the  T'ang  period. 

Chung  Hung  (c.  500)  and  Liu  Hsieh  were  contemporaries  but,  since 
they  apparently  did  not  know  each  other,  Chung  had  no  direct  influence 
on  Liu  Hsieh.  However,  since  his  Shih-p'ing  is  one  of  the  most  impor- 
tant critical  works  of  the  time,  it  deserves  a  short  account  here. 

The  main  purpose  of  the  work  was  to  evaluate  the  poets  of  the 
five-word-line  pattern.  Adopting  the  political  system  of  selecting  offi- 
cials by  classifying  all  nominees  into  three  groups  and  nine  categories, 
Chung  likewise  classified  the  poets  into  three  groups,  arranging  them 
in  order  of  excellence  from  the  highest  through  the  middle  to  the 
lowest.  "The  lowest"  does  not  mean  poor,  since  it  is  a  relative  term, 
and  to  be  included  at  all  in  any  of  the  groups,  a  poet  had  to  possess 
unusual  talent.  Although  later  generations  have  not  agreed  with  all 
of  his  judgments — the  one  concerning  T'ao  Ch'ien  of  the  Chin  having 
been  the  most  hotly  contested — they  are  generally  sound.  The  classifica- 
tion is  prefaced  by  a  short  historical  introduction,  tracing  the  develop- 
ment of  the  five-word-line  pattern  poetry  from  earliest  times  to  the 
time  of  the  Chin.  But  in  the  classification  Chung  included  poets  of 
his  own  day.  In  judging  each  poet,  he  usually  began  by  linking  him 
to  an  earlier  source;  then  he  gave  the  poet's  specific  quality. 

This  practice  of  classification,  the  sterility  of  which  is  quite  obvious 
to  us  today,  was  nevertheless  a  popular  and  legitimate  method  in  Chung 
Hung's  time,  and  it  was  also  used  in  much  ancient  Greek  and  Latin 
criticism.  Aristophanes,  perhaps  the  first  serious  critic  in  the  West, 
made  exactly  such  an  attempt  to  classify  poets  into  various  ranks  of 
excellence.  Chung  Hung's  judgment  may  have  been  subjective  and 
impressionistic,  but  he  seems  to  have  raised  some  of  the  basic  critical 
problems  which  we  still  encounter  today.  Like  Aristophanes,  he  asked 
implicitly:  In  what  order  of  merit  should  poets  be  ranked  and  on 
what  ground  should  they  be  judged?  If  he  did  not  give  us  clear  answers 


Introduction  xxxiii 

to  these  questions,  he  at  least  offered  his  contemporaries  and  students 
of  later  ages  some  suggestive  guides  for  their  evaluation  of  literature. 

To  sum  up:  Throughout  the  early  periods,  the  classical  definition  of 
poetry  as  the  expression  of  the  sentiments  ruled  supreme.  However, 
the  conception  of  the  sentiments  as  moral  ideas  as  well  as  emotion 
prevented  poetry  and,  for  that  matter,  literature  in  general,  from 
developing  into  pure  lyricism,  but  destined  it  to  be  a  vehicle  of  moral 
principles,  and  its  function  to  be  primarily  didactic.  Such  being  the 
case,  it  is  easy  to  see  why  the  Classics  were  always  held  as  the  criteria 
of  literary  excellence,  in  spite  of  the  recognized  need  of  the  principle 
of  flexible  adaptability  to  historical  changes.  One  refreshing  view  is 
the  conception  of  the  creative  process,  a  view  which  grew,  in  nearly 
every  case,  out  of  the  personal  esthetic  experience  of  the  creative  artist. 
In  accounting  for  this  creativity,  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  nearly  all 
writers,  or  poet-critics,  emphasized  both  natural  gifts  and  hard-earned 
erudition.  This  sense  of  balance  is  particularly  marked  in  Liu  Hsieh. 

Liu  Hsieh,41  alias  Yen-ho  (c.  A.D.  465-522)  was  a  native  of  Tung- 
kuan,  the  present  Lii-hsien  in  Shangtung  province.  His  father  died 
when  he  was  a  child  and  he  was  reared  in  poverty  by  his  mother.  When 
he  was  about  twenty  years  of  age,  his  mother  died.  He  never  married, 
partly  because  of  his  poverty,  and  partly,  no  doubt,  because  of  his 
interest  in  Buddhism.  He  is  said  to  have  assisted  Seng-yu  in  editing 
Buddhist  sutras  in  Ting-lin  Monastery,  and  to  have  taken  part  in  the 
preparation  of  the  Hung-ming  chi.  His  own  contribution  to  this  col- 
lection is  "Mieh-huo  lun,"  which  is  found  in  chiian  8.  We  are  told 
that  both  Hsiao  T'ung,  the  author  of  the  famous  anthology  entitled 
Wen  hsiian,  and  Shen  Yueh,  the  great  exponent  of  musical  patterns  in 
literature,  spoke  well  of  his  literary  talents.  But  no  mention  of  Liu 
occurs  in  the  biography  of  either  writer.  Liu  wrote  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung 
{The  Literary  Mind  and  the  Carving  of  Dragons)  in  the  Southern 
Ch'i  period;  but  as  he  lived  into  the  Liang  dynasty,  he  is  generally 
regarded   as   belonging   to   the   Liang   period,   and   his   biography    is 

41  The  section  on  Liu  Hsieh  first  appeared  as  an  article  in  the  Asiatische  Studien1  Etudes 
Asiatiques,  3/4   (1953),   123-34. 


xxxiv  Introduction 

included  in  the  History  of  Liang.  Late  in  life,  he  was  commissioned  by 
Emperor  Wu  of  Liang  to  re-edit  Buddhist  sutras  in  Ting-lin  Monastery, 
this  time  in  cooperation  with  a  monk  by  the  name  of  Hui-chen.  With 
the  completion  of  this  task,  he  petitioned  the  emperor  for  permission  to 
take  Buddhist  vows.  The  permission  was  granted,  and  he  became  a 
monk  in  the  same  monastery  where  he  twice  had  edited  Buddhist 
sutras.  There  he  received  the  Buddhist  name  of  Hui-ti.  Shortly  after- 
wards he  died. 

Some  modern  writers  believe  that  Liu  Hsieh's  classicism  was  moti- 
vated by  a  desire  to  lend  authority  to  his  own  views,42  a  version  of 
"reform  in  the  name  of  antiquity."  But  many  others43  think  that  Liu 
was  sincere  in  preferring  classicism  to  the  growing  tendency  in  current 
literary  circles  to  deviate  from  the  classical  pattern.  Here  I  shall  first 
give  a  brief  account  of  Liu's  classicism,  then  turn  to  a  study  of  his 
literary  criticism  and,  finally,  try  to  ascertain  what  role  classicism  does 
play  in  his  system  and  to  what  degree  he  may  be  considered  a  classicist. 

Liu's  classicism  is  revealed  in  his  "Preface,"  where  he  tells  us  that  he, 
ceremonial  vessels  in  his  hands,  followed  Confucius  in  a  dream.  He 
also  indicates  that  had  there  been  no  Ma  Yung  and  Cheng  Hsiian 
before  him,  he  would  have  used  his  talent  to  make  commentaries  on 
the  Classics.44  Even  his  decision  to  devote  himself  to  literary  criticism 
was  influenced  by  the  fact  that  for  him  the  functions  of  literature  have 
their  source  in  the  Classics.45  In  view  of  the  prevalent  indulgence  in 
an  exceedingly  florid  style  in  literature,  he  considered  it  his  duty  to 
try,  by  writing  critically  on  literature,  to  check  this  divergent  tendency. 
Thus  he  says,  "The  writing  of  Wen-hsin  has  its  source  in  the  Tao, 
its  model  in  the  Sage,  and  its  pattern  in  the  Classics."46  His  book  opens 
with  the  chapter  "On  Tao,  the  Source,"  followed  by  "On  the  Evidence 
from  the  Sages"  and  "On  the  Classics  as  Literary  Sources." 

42  Liang  Sheng-wei,  "Wen-hsiieh  p'i-p'ing-chia  Liu  Yen-ho  p'ing-chuan,"  Hsiao-shuo 
yiieh-pao,  Vol.  XVII,  Supplement. 

43  Lo  Ken-tse,  Wei-chin  liu-ch'ao  wen-hsiieh  p'i-p'ing  shih   (Chungking,  1944). 

44  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  chu,  ed.  by  Fan  Wen-Ian,  K'ai-ming  shu-tien,  1947  (henceforth 
abbreviated  as  Wen-hsin),  chiian  10,  pp.  2ob-2ia. 

46  Ibid. 

46  Ibid.,  p.  21b. 


Introduction  xxxv 

In  the  first  chapter,  while  tracing  the  origin  of  literature  to  nature, 
he  seems  to  envisage  an  orthodox  principle  taken  from  nature,  a 
principle  which  was  handed  down  from  one  sage  to  another  until 
Confucius  completed  it  by  writing  the  "wings."47  The  other  Classics 
were  developed  in  the  hands  of  sages  and  it  was  again  Confucius  who, 
excelling  all  others  before  him,  brought  the  six  Classics  to  their 
final  form.48 

In  the  second  chapter,  Liu  seeks  to  establish  Confucius  as  the 
authority  for  the  various  functions  of  literary  forms  by  reference  to 
his  utterances,  as  recorded  in  the  Classics  and  their  commentaries.  The 
functions  of  these  literary  forms  are  political  and  moral  in  nature.49 
As  for  the  literary  styles  exemplified  in  the  Classics,  they  are :  simplicity 
in  conveying  thought,  linguistic  richness  in  embodying  emotions,  logical 
clarity  in  establishing  fundamental  principles,  and  allegorical  and 
figurative  speech  as  a  means  of  suggestive  remonstration.50 

In  Chapter  Three,  "On  the  Classics  as  Literary  Sources,"  Liu  defines 
the  Classics  as  the  essence  of  literature,  embodying  eternal  principles.51 
According  to  him,  the  general  characteristics  of  the  Classics  are  that 
they  contain  ideas  which  are  completely  adequate  for  expressing  one's 
emotions,  and  that  their  language  is  of  such  a  quality  that  it  follows 
perfectly  the  literary  principles.52  If  one  is  versed  in  them,  one's  utter- 
ance would  naturally  be  profound,  for,  he  says,  "a  bell  of  ten  thousand 
weights  will  not  ring  out  petty  sounds."53  Liu  traces  all  literary  genres 
back  to  the  Classics.  If  one  always  took  the  Classics  as  his  sources, 
there  would  be  no  danger  of  his  becoming  withered  up  and  fading 
away.  If  a  writer  relied  on  the  Classics,  his  work  would  be  distinguished 
by  one  of  the  following  characteristics:  deep  emotions  untainted  by 
artificiality,  unmixed  purity  of  form,  empirical  truth  untarnished  by 
falsehood,  moral  ideas  uninvolved  in  perversity,  simple  style  free  from 
verbosity,  and  literary  beauty  unmarred  by  excess.54 

47  Commentaries  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes.  Liu  Hsieh  apparently  adopted  the  belief 
that  these  were  written  by  Confucius,  a  belief  which  has  been  generally  discredited. 

48  Ibid.,  chiian  i,  pp.  ia-ib.  49  Ibid.,  p.  9b.  50  Ibid.,  p.  10a. 

51  Ibid.,  p.  13a.  ™lbid.  53  Ibid.,  pp.  isa-isb. 

54  Ibid.,  p.  14a. 


xxxvi  Introduction 

Apart  from  these  first  three  chapters,  there  are  many  other  references 
to  the  Classics.  In  the  chapter  entitled  "An  Analysis  of  Sao  or  Ch'u- 
tz'u"  Liu  considers  the  rise  of  Sao  as  a  consequence  of  the  decline  of 
feng  and  ya.55  In  considering  different  views  concerning  the  conformity 
of  Li-sao  to  the  Classics,  Liu  recognizes  two  divergent  tendencies  in 
Li-sao,  one  of  which  is  in  harmony  with  the  Classics  and  the  other 
contrary  to  them.  In  Li-sao  Liu  finds  four  ways  in  which  Li-sao  is  in 
harmony  with  feng  and  ya.  These  are:  The  Li-sao  contains  a  style  of 
tien  and  \ao,  it  employs  the  style  of  satirical  suggestion,  it  adopts  the 
use  of  metaphor  and  allegory,  and  it  expresses  the  sentiments  of  loyalty 
and  lament.  There  are  also  four  things  which  mark  Li-sao  as  unclassi- 
cal.  These  are:  the  inclusion  of  strange  tales,  and  of  fantastic  stories, 
and  evidence  of  an  eccentric  and  narrow  mind,  and  of  an  indecent 
desire  for  a  loose  life.56 

In  the  chapter  on  "An  Exegesis  cf  Poetry,"  a  province  in  which 
classical  and  literary  elements  coincide,  Liu  quotes  the  description  of 
poetry  from  the  Shu-ching:  "Poetry  is  the  expression  of  sentiments,  and 
songs  are  these  expressions  set  to  music."57  He  also  repeats  Confucius' 
statement  that  in  the  Shih-ching  there  is  no  undisciplined  thought.58 
He  cites  with  approval  Confucius'  utilitarian  view  of  poetry,59  and 
endorses  the  general  theory  enunciated  in  Mao's  "Preface"  that  poetry 
reflects  the  political  conditions  of  the  times,  and  that  poetry  declines  as 
time  passes  and  departs  from  the  age  of  the  Sage.  In  line  with  this 
view,  he  condemns  the  poetry  of  the  Cheng-shih  period  (240-248)  and 
of  the  Eastern  Chin  for  being  adulterated  by  Taoism  and  having  a 
metaphysical  flavor.60 

He  believes  that  musical  poetry  (yueh-fu)  rose  after  the  decline  of 
the  ya  odes,61  and  refers  to  the  fu  as  one  of  the  six  elements  of  the 

55  Ibid.,  p.  28b.  5G  Ibid.,  pp.  29a-29b. 

57  Ibid.,  chiian  2,  p.  ia;  Shu-ching,  "Shun-tien"  (Shih-san-ching  chu-shu  ed.),  chiian  3, 
p.  26a. 

58  Lun-yii  yin-te  (Harvard  Yenching  Institute,  Peiping,  1940),  2/2/2. 

59  Wen-hsin,  chiian  2,  p.  ia;  Lun-yii  yin-te,  2/1/15;  4/3/8. 

60  Wen-hsin,  chiian  2,  p.  2a. 

61  Ibid.,  p.  24b. 


Introduction  xxxvii 

Shih-ching?2  Liu  claims  that  the  fu  receives  its  life  from  the  poets  of 
the  Odes,63  and  therefore  may  be  traced  back  to  them. 

Liu  makes  many  allusions  to  the  Classics,  particularly  the  Shih-ching. 
The  chapter  entitled  "Metaphor  and  Allegory"  is  completely  dominated 
by  the  spirit  of  traditional  interpretation.  But  what  has  been  said  is 
enough  to  indicate  Liu's  classical  tendency.  We  shall  pass  on  to  the 
discussion  of  his  literary  criticism. 

The  term  "literary  criticism"  is  used  here  in  its  broadest  possible 
sense.  It  includes  literary  history,  literary  theory,  and  literary  apprecia- 
tion and  evaluation.  In  the  case  of  Liu  Hsieh,  these  three  are  closely 
interwoven  and  give  his  work  an  underlying  unity  in  the  midst  of 
apparent  chaos. 

Liu's  desire  to  write  the  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  arises  from  his  dissatis- 
faction with  the  general  state  of  literary  production  of  the  times,  and 
with  the  fragmentary  manner  in  which  literary  criticism  has  been 
dealt  with.  As  a  prelude  to  his  work,  he  reviews  existing  critical  works 
and  gives  to  each  an  epigrammatic  verdict  which  implies  some  general 
criteria  of  his  own.  Of  Wei-wen,  Lu  Chi,  Chih  Yii,  and  others,  he  says, 
"Each  reflects  a  particular  corner,  and  few  have  envisioned  the  open 
vista."64  And  he  further  comments,  "They  are  all  unable  to  trace  back 
from  the  leaves  to  the  roots,  or  back  from  the  tide  to  its  source."65 
These  verdicts  indicate  a  discerning  mind  equipped  with  a  penetrating 
critical  spirit.  He  is  truly  a  critic  of  critics.  In  the  chapter  called  "A 
General  Consideration  of  the  Art  of  Writing,"  he  says  of  Lu  Chi,  "His 
Wen-fu  has  been  known  for  its  penetrating  and  exhaustive  discussion 
of  the  art  of  writing,  but,  in  its  superficial  attention  to  details,  it  has 
not  adequately  dealt  with  the  substance."66  Thus  Liu  apparently  feels 
that  it  is  up  to  him  to  offer  a  comprehensive  account  of  the  principles 
of  literary  criticism. 

Liu  has  an  interesting  idea  of  a  competent  critic.  In  his  opinion  a 
competent  critic  is  one  who,  to  begin  with,  is  widely  acquainted  with 
literature  and  highly  sensitive  to  its  intrinsic  values.  Then  there  are 

62  Ibid.,  p.  46a.  63  Ibid.,  p.  46b.  **lbid.,  chuan  10,  p.  21a. 

65  Ibid.,  p.  21b.  66  Ibid.,  chuan  9,  p.  12a. 


xxxviii  Introduction 

other  prerequisites  to  the  understanding  of  a  piece  of  literature:  the 
ability  to  recognize  the  genre  and  style,  the  ability  to  determine  if  the 
work  complies  with  the  principle  of  adaptability  to  change,  and  the 
ability  to  distinguish  between  the  extraordinary  and  the  orthodox  in 
subject  matter  and  to  pass  judgment  on  the  appropriateness  of  historical 
allusions  and  musical  patterns.  Above  all,  the  critic  should  be  able  to 
trace  back  from  the  words  to  the  feeling  of  the  author,67  a  criterion 
that  vaguely  indicates  a  belief  in  the  oneness  of  the  creative  genius  and 
appreciative  taste.  Through  these  abilities,  a  critic  is  enabled  to  grasp 
the  meaning  or  the  esthetic  beauty  of  a  literary  work.68  But  an  under- 
standing critic  is  rare,  because  most  people  depreciate  their  contempo- 
raries and  worship  only  the  Ancients.69  However,  an  appreciative 
critic  is  essential  to  the  realization  of  the  value  of  a  literary  work. 
For  a  literary  work  loses  much  of  its  richness  if  it  is  not  appreciated.70 

Liu  traces  the  origin  of  literature  to  nature.  For  him,  just  as  it  was 
for  Horace,  literature  is  both  sweet  and  useful.  His  verbal  emphasis  is 
on  the  useful  and  his  real  interest  in  the  sweet.71  In  his  "Preface"  he 
says,  "Time  is  fleeting  and  life  itself  is  transitory.  If  a  man  really  wants 
to  achieve  fame,  his  only  chance  is  to  devote  himself  to  writing."  This 
utilitarian  view  is  more  than  balanced  by  his  deep  interest  in  aspects 
which  are  purely  literary.  This  interest  is  revealed  in  the  title  of  his 
book:  The  Literary  Mind  and  the  Carving  of  Dragons.  His  own  expla- 
nation is:  "The  literary  mind  is  that  mind  which  strives  after  literary 
forms."72  And  the  term  "the  carving  of  dragons"  stands  specifically 
for  literary  embellishment.  For,  he  says,  "since  from  time  immemorial 
literature  has  always  been  characterized  by  certain  embellishments."'3 
His  view  of  the  scope  of  literature  is  broad.  From  the  types  of  writing 
he  includes  in  his  discussion  of  literature,  it  is  apparent  that  he  holds 
nothing  in  writing  to  be  beyond  the  province  of  literature. 

Literary  development  is  treated  by  Liu  Hsieh  in  a  number  of  ways. 
Development  of  general  trends,  Liu  believes,  follows  the  principle  of 


67  Ibid., 

chiian  io,  p.  14a. 

68  Ibid.,  p.  13b. 

69  Ibid.,  p.  13b. 

70  Ibid., 

p.  14b. 

71  Ibid.,   p.    2lb. 

72  Ibid.,  p.  20b. 

73  Ibid. 

Introduction  xxxix 

the  flexible  adaptability  to  change.  He  says,  "As  time  has  passed  and 
as  dynasties  have  risen  and  fallen,  literature  has  developed  from  the 
simple  to  the  more  ornate  in  form  as  well  as  in  content."74  And  again 
he  says,  "It  is  the  law  of  literature  both  to  move  along  and  to  come  to 
full  circle;  the  merit  of  literature  renews  itself  from  day  to  day.  If  it 
changes,  it  will  endure;  if  it  adapts  itself  to  the  changing  tide,  it  will 
lack  nothing."75  Thus,  the  literary  forms  of  each  generation  conform 
to  the  spirit  of  that  generation  and,  when  changes  take  place  in  the 
spirit  of  the  age,  literary  forms  modify  themselves  accordingly.  This 
explains  the  rise  of  different  genres  in  different  ages.  Occasionally  Liu 
emphasizes  the  moral  and  political  influence  of  an  age  on  the  char- 
acter of  literature. 

When  Liu  moves  from  the  discussion  of  general  trends  in  literature 
to  a  discussion  of  literary  genres,  he  holds  that  the  form  of  each  genre 
is  characterized  by  certain  norms,  and  his  classification  of  literary 
genres  is  based  on  these  norms.  His  distinctions  between  literary  genres 
are,  at  times,  very  strict.  This  indicates  that  he  does  not  seem  to  see 
the  possibility  that  changes  might  have  taken  place  across  the  ages  in 
the  conception  of  these  genres.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  the  arbitrariness 
of  his  classification  cannot  escape  the  attention  of  even  the  most  casual 
reader  when  it  is  noted  that  his  genres  are  not  mutually  exclusive  but 
are  overlapping. 

Liu's  book  abounds  in  critical  evaluation  of  individual  authors  and 
their  works.  All  that  can  be  attempted  here  is  to  ferret  out  the  criteria 
he  seems  to  have  used  in  making  these  evaluations.  These  criteria  seem 
to  fall  into  the  following  categories :  ( i )  natural  talents,  (2)  fullness  of 
feelings  and  emotions,  (3)  style  as  expressed  in  terms  of  artisitc  quality 
of  language,  (4)  moral  convictions  and  philosophy  of  life,  (5)  scholar- 
ship and  learning,  (6)  the  nature  of  the  subject  matter  treated,  and 
(7)  the  musical  patterns.  Liu  himself,  on  two  occasions,  reduces  these 
categories  to  neat  formulas.  On  one  occasion  he  offers  three  main 
patterns:  the  pattern  of  colors,  the  pattern  of  sounds,  and  the  pattern 
of  emotions.76  On  another  occasion  he  gives  four  categories:  emotions 

74  Ibid.,  chiian  9,  p.  22.  75  Ibid.,  chiian  6,  p.  18a.  7G  Ibid.,  chiian  7,  p.  ia. 


xl  Introduction 

and  sentiments,  which  are  the  spirit  of  literature;  facts  and  principles, 
which  are  the  bone  and  marrow;  linguistic  patterns,  which  are  the 
flesh;  and  musical  patterns,  which  are  the  voice  and  the  breath.77  He 
devotes  most  of  the  second  portion  of  his  work  to  the  elaboration  of 
these  elements,  and  the  discussion  of  the  relationship  between  them. 
In  view  of  the  fact  that  Liu  never  discusses  any  element  in  isolation,  it 
may  be  wise  to  begin  our  analysis  with  the  relationship  between  the 
elements. 

In  considering  the  relative  importance  of  these  literary  elements,  Liu 
shows  a  remarkable  sense  of  balance.  He  is  a  critic  in  whom  emotion 
and  intellect,  beauty  of  linguistic  form  and  fullness  of  emotional  con- 
tent are  balanced.  He  says, 

Literary  beauty  means  adorning  the  language;  but  language's  appropri- 
ateness and  beauty  is  conditioned  by  inner  feelings.  Therefore,  feelings  are 
the  warp  of  literary  patterns  and  linguistic  forms  are  the  woof  of  ideas. 
Only  when  the  warp  is  straight,  can  the  woof  be  formed;  and  only  when 
ideas  are  definite,  can  linguistic  forms  be  expressive.78 

His  respect  for  the  ancient  poets  lies  in  the  fact  that  they  built  their 
literary  forms  on  emotions,  while  later  poets  fabricated  emotions  to 
fit  literary  forms.79  But  literary  forms  are  not  fallacious  in  themselves; 
the  fallacy  lies  in  having  the  forms  alone  without  emotions.  Emotions 
are  tuned  to  changes  of  external  scene.  Spring,  summer,  autumn,  and 
winter — each  affects  us  in  a  specific  way  and  arouses  in  us  certain 
specific  emotions.80  Since  stock  phrases  are  inadequate  for  the  depicting 
of  varying  emotions,  Liu  demands  freshness  in  linguistic  pattern  as  a 
condition  of  good  literature.81  Thus  the  importance  of  emotion  is 
matched  by  that  of  literary  expression.  In  defense  of  linguistic  beauty 
he  says,  "What  is  written  by  the  sages  and  worthy  men  is  summed  up 
under  the  phrase  wen-chang.  What  is  it,  if  not  beauty  of  form?"82 
Liu  is  apparently  expressing  a  new  appreciation  of  the  literary  qualities 
of  the  Classics.  For  him,  substance  depends  on  literary  pattern  for 
expression,  just  as  expressions  depend  on  emotions  for  their  content. 

77  Ibid.,  chiian  9,  p.  9b.  78  Ibid.,  chiian  7,  p.  ib.  79  Ibid. 

80  Ibid.,  chiian  10,  p.  ia.  81  Ibid.  82  Ibid.,  chiian  7,  p.  ia. 


Introduction  xli 

Liu  not  only  defends  rhetoric;  he  also  endorses  literary  exaggeration 
and  embellishment.  For  his  justification,  he  paraphrases  Mencius, 
"Though  the  language  be  exaggerated,  it  harms  not  the  ideas."83  Here 
Liu  sees  the  real  function  of  literature  as  consisting  in  the  creation  of 
beautiful  linguistic  forms  for  the  purpose  of  moving  the  heart  of  the 
reader. 

In  his  discussion  of  musical  poetry  he  discloses  the  intimate  relation- 
ship between  music  and  poetry.  He  says,  "Poetry  is  the  heart  of  music, 
and  sound  is  the  body  of  music.  Since  the  body  of  music  lies  in  sound, 
musicians  must  tune  their  instruments;  since  the  heart  of  music  lies  in 
poetry,  superior  men  should  make  right  their  literary  forms."84  From 
this  it  is  only  a  short  step  to  the  view  that  music  is  the  reflection  of  the 
age,  and  that  by  listening  to  the  music  of  any  age  one  is  able  to  discern 
the  character  of  that  age.  Poetry  and  music  are  thus  intimately  bound 
together  by  their  identical  function. 

The  ability  to  weave  these  literary  elements  into  beautiful  rhythmic 
and  musical  expressions  of  real  emotion  and  feeling,  incorporating  into 
the  texture  true  moral  convictions  and  principles,  is,  of  course,  a  gift  of 
nature.  But  effort  and  learning  contribute  much  to  the  richness  in 
materials  and  the  resourcefulness  and  ease  with  which  one  adapts  his 
style  to  the  nature  of  the  subject  under  treatment.85  As  natural  talents 
vary  with  individuals,  Liu  conceives  of  eight  different  styles:  first, 
elegant  and  graceful,  or  in  the  style  of  tien  and  ya;  second,  far-ranging 
and  profound;  third,  polished  and  concise;  fourth,  lucid  and  logical; 
fifth,  profuse  and  flowery;  sixth,  vigorous  and  beautiful;  seventh,  fresh 
and  extraordinary;  and  eighth,  light  and  trivial.  Few  have  the  genius 
to  command  all  these  styles,  but  many  can  adapt  some  style  to  fit 
their  talents.86 

In  the  discussion  of  talents,  there  is  a  chapter  on  "The  Wind  and 
the  Bone,"  "wind"  meaning  lyrical,  or  in  the  manner  of  feng,  and 
"bone"  meaning  vigor  and  strength.  Liu  says,  "He  who  would  express 
mournful  emotions  must  begin  with  the  wind,  and  to  organize  his 

83  Ibid.,  chiian  8,  p.  5b.  84  ihid.,  chiian  2,  p.  25a. 

85  Ibid.,  chiian  6.  p.  ib.  86  ###j  pp    8a-8b. 


xlii  Introduction 

linguistic  elements,  he  must  above  all  emphasize  the  bone."87  The  wind 
gives  wings  to  words  and  the  bone  gives  them  vigor  and  strength.88 
By  the  wind  and  the  bone,  Liu  is  talking  about  what  Wei-wen  had 
called  the  breath.  His  quotation  from  Wei-wen  convinces  us  that  he 
shares  with  Wei-wen  the  feeling  that  genius  is  born  and  not  made.89 
But  important  as  genius  is,  it  is  only  half  the  story;  the  other  half 
depends  on  experience  and  scholarship.  It  is  by  means  of  wide  acquaint- 
ance with  literary  works  and  extensive  experience  that  one  can  hope 
to  avoid  poverty  of  expression.90 

Genius  operates  through  imagination,  the  power  of  association  of 
ideas,  and  the  ability  to  forge  metaphors.  The  manner  in  which  genius 
operates  is  such  that  it  cannot  be  transmitted  by  instruction.  Like  I  Chih 
who  could  not  inform  people  how  he  cooked,  and  the  wheelwright 
Pien  who  could  not  tell  people  how  he  wielded  his  ax,  so  a  writer  is 
unable  to  transmit  his  manner  of  operation  to  others.91 

Liu,  in  his  treatment  of  metaphor  and  of  the  couplet,  displays 
remarkable  analytical  power.  His  analysis  of  metaphor  includes  what 
is  now  described  as  onomatopoeia,92  and  his  analytical  categorization 
of  the  couplet  seems  to  be  the  first  attempt  of  its  kind.93 

With  his  insistence  on  the  importance  of  real  emotions  and  feelings 
as  the  foundation  of  literature,  Liu  inclines  toward  spontaneity  and 
naturalness.94  It  is  not  accidental  that  in  the  first  chapter  he  traces 
literature  to  natural  patterns  and  forms.  By  nature  we  have  seven 
emotions,  and  these  emotions  are  naturally  aroused  when  affected  by 

87  Ibid.,  pp.  I3a-i3b.  88  Ibid.,  pp.  I3b-i4a. 

89  Ibid.,  p.  13b.  Wei-wen-ti,  "Tien-lun  lun-wen,"  Wei-wen-ti  chi  (Han  Wei  liu-ch'ao 
pai-san  ming-chia  chi  ed.,  1892),  chiian  1,  p.  70a. 

90  Wen-hsin,  chiian  6,  p.  ib. 

91  Wen-hsin,  chiian  6,  p.  2a.  "I  Chih"  is  another  name  for  I  Yin.  The  reference  is  to 
a  passage  in  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  where  I  Yin,  in  answer  to  T'ang's  question,  says:  ".  .  . 
The  changes  which  take  place  in  a  cauldron  are  subtle  and  delicate,  neither  expressible 
in  words  by  the  mouth  nor  conceivable  by  the  mind."  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  (Chu-tzu  chi- 
ch'eng  ed.,  Shanghai,  1935),  chapter  on  "Pen-wei,"  chiian  14,  pp.  140-1.  (Cf.  Friihling 
und  Herbst  des  Lit  Bu  We,  translated  by  R.  Wilhelm  [Jena,  1928],  p.  182.)  For  the 
Wheelwright  Pien,  see  Chuangtzu,  Book  XIII,  Chapter  10. 

92  Wen-hsin,  chiian  8,  pp.  ia-ib;  chiian  10,  p.  ia. 

93  Ibid.,  chiian  7,  p.  33b. 

94  Ibid.,  chiian  1,  p.  ia;  chiian  7,  ia-iob. 


Introduction  xliii 

external  circumstances.95  When  thus  affected,  it  is  only  natural  for  us 
to  try  to  express  our  sentiments  in  winged  words.  If  we  follow  our 
spontaneous  tendency,  it  will  be  internal  emotions  which  determine 
the  literary  forms  and  styles,  and  not  the  external  forms  which  force 
themselves  upon  our  inner  feelings.  In  this  spontaneity  we  shall  find 
the  unlimited  resourcefulness  of  our  spirit.  Liu  holds  that  if  we  should 
in  any  way  work  against  our  nature,  in  the  end  we  would  be  exhausted 
and  withered  up.96  His  chapter  on  "The  Nourishing  of  Vitality"  is  a 
lesson  in  spontaneity,  which  is  apparently  based  on  Chuangtzu.  Liu 
shares  Chuangtzu's  view  that  to  keep  one's  mind  empty  and  quiet  is 
the  only  way  to  keep  one's  vigor  forever  fresh  and  sharp  as  a  newly 
honed  blade.97 

Now,  in  evaluating  Liu's  position  as  a  classicist,  let  us  see  what  his 
attitude  really  is  when  he  talks  about  the  Classics.  He  eulogizes  the 
Classics  as  the  source  of  all  literary  genres  and  maintains  a  properly 
reverent  attitude  for  the  orthodox  ideas  in  them.  It  is  in  his  evaluation 
of  the  Classics  as  literature,  however,  that  he  discards  all  platitudes, 
and  waxes  warm  in  true  praise.  Moreover,  in  pronouncing  Li-sao  to  be 
a  "hero"  of  poetry,  but  only  a  "ruffian"  in  the  realm  of  ya  and  sung,98 
he  definitely  conceives  of  poetry  as  independent  of  the  Shih-ching.  In 
reiterating  the  traditional  theory  of  poetic  function  and  development, 
Liu  seems  to  have  done  so  as  a  matter  of  habit  rather  than  as  a  result 
of  conviction.  His  belief  that  literature  develops  in  accordance  with  the 
needs  of  the  times,  and  that  each  new  age  gives  literature  a  new 
emphasis  and  a  fresh  point  of  view  is  in  violent  contradiction  to  tradi- 
tionalism. Poetry  must  change  according  to  the  principle  of  flexible 
adaptability  to  new  needs  of  new  ages.  This  principle  of  adaptability 
to  change  is  enunciated  in  the  same  breath  with  which  he  advises 
people  to  go  back  to  the  Classics.  At  the  very  moment  when  he  exhorts 
men  to  worship  the  Classics,  he  condemns  the  popular  view  of  depreci- 

95  Ibid.,  chiian  2,  p.  ia.  Q6Ibid.,  chiian  9,  pp.  8l>9a. 

97  Ibid.,  pp.  6b-7b.  Cf.  Wang  Hsien-ch'ien,  Chuang-tzu  chi-chieh  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng 
ed,),  chuan  I,  Chapter  3,  "Yang-sheng-chu,"  18-9.  (Cf.  translations  of  Chuangtzu,  Book 
III,  Chapter  2.) 

98  Wen-hsin,  chuan  1,  p.  29b. 


xliv  Introduction 

ating  the  contemporaries  and  worshipping  the  Ancients."  From  the 
general  tenor  of  his  writing,  we  must  conclude  that  his  conservatism 
is  a  matter  of  habit,  while  his  progressive  ideas  rise  from  convictions. 
He  pays  lip  service  to  the  Classics,  but  gives  his  heart  to  the  study  of 
elements  which  are  purely  literary.  And  even  in  treating  the  Classics, 
he  gives  them  more  of  a  literary  appreciation  than  a  moralistic  interpre- 
tation. For  him,  it  seems,  the  Classics  are  important  because  they 
possess  literary  value;  he  does  not  believe  that  literary  value  depends 
upon  conformity  to  the  Classics. 

When  he  discusses  literary  elements  in  the  second  portion  of  his 
book,  his  freedom  from  classicism  is  even  more  surprising.  He  occupies 
himself  almost  exclusively  with  what  is  purely  literary.  In  the  eight 
styles  he  formulates,  only  the  first  style,  tien  ya>  refers  to  the  Shu-chin g 
and  the  Shih-ching.  But  as  used  in  his  critical  judgments  on  individual 
authors  and  their  works,  these  terms  mean  merely  "elegant"  and 
"graceful."  It  is,  therefore,  abundantly  clear  that  whatever  he  con- 
ceives to  be  the  value  of  a  classical  element,  this  value  is  only  one 
among  many  other  literary  values.  He  brings  the  Classics  down  to 
earth  for  us  to  admire  as  works  of  literature.  Such  being  Liu's  literary 
outlook,  it  would  not  be  far  wrong  to  conclude  that  in  his  system 
classicism  plays  the  same  role  as  any  other  literary  element,  and  thus 
it  is  not  possible  to  call  Liu  Hsieh  a  classicist  without  doing  him 
a  grave  injustice. 

Liu  Hsieh  seems  to  have  gathered  up  in  his  Wcn-hsin  tiao-lung  all 
the  strands  of  literary  and  critical  thought  which  we  have  discussed 
in  the  preceding  pages.  He  has  apparently  read  widely,  weighing  the 
ideas  of  earlier  authors  and  then  formulating  his  own.  Being  a  great 
writer  himself,  a  past  master  of  the  beautiful  style  of  the  Six  Dynasties 
period,  which  is  characterized  by  balance  in  structure,  parallelism  of 
expressions,  and  consonance  of  language,  he  inspires  the  reader  not 
only  by  the  content  of  his  work,  but  also  by  his  incomparable  style. 

In  the  chapter  on  "An  Understanding  Critic,"  Liu  Hsieh  made  the 

99  Ibid.,  chiian  6;  compare  text  on  p.  17b  and  "Eulogy"  at  the  end  of  the  essay  on 
p.  1 8a;  see  also  chiian  9,  "Shih-hsu,"  and  chiian  10,  "chih-ying." 


Introduction  xlv 

statement  that  literary  works  had  to  be  appreciated  to  reveal  their 
beauty.  If  we  apply  this  statement  to  his  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung,  there  is 
no  doubt  about  its  being  one  of  the  most  beautiful,  because  it  is  one 
of  the  most  admired,  of  works.  During  his  own  day  Shen  Yiieh,  the 
literary  lion  of  his  age,  kept  it  within  reach  on  his  desk.  Liu  Chih-chi 
(661-721),  the  great  historiographer  of  the  T'ang  dynasty,  spoke  of  him 
in  his  Shih-t'ung  as  the  arbiter  of  taste  during  the  Six  Dynasties  period. 
Huang  T'ing-chien  (1045-1105),  one  of  the  great  poets  of  the  Sung, 
considered  Liu  Chih-chi's  Shih-t'ung  and  Liu  Hsieh's  Wen-hsin  tiao- 
lung  two  works  which  all  scholars  aspiring  to  be  literary  writers  must 
read.  And  Hu  Ying-lin  of  the  Ming,  who  flourished  in  1590,  ranked 
Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  above  Shih-t'ung. 

In  the  Ch'ing  dynasty,  the  compilers  of  the  Ssu-I(u  ch'ilan-shu 
chien-ming  mu-lu  spoke  of  Wen-hsin  as  the  first  literary  critical  work 
which  contains  the  essence  of  literary  and  rhetorical  principles.  Chang 
Hsueh-ch'eng  (1 738-1 801),  another  great  historiographer,  expressed  his 
enthusiasm  and  unbounded  admiration  for  Liu  Hsieh's  Wen-hsin  in 
his  Wen-shih  t'ung-i,  a  work  which  ranks  with  Liu  Chih-chi's  Shih- 
t'ung  in  importance.  And  Juan  Yuan  (1 764-1 849)  who,  because  of  his 
important  official  position,  was  able  to  make  such  an  important  con- 
tribution by  fostering  scholarship,  considered  Liu  Hsieh  the  creator 
of  literary  laws. 

As  late  as  1941,  Fu  Tseng-hsiang,  a  famous  bibliographer,  said, 
"Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  deals  with  the  development  of  literature.  It  is  the 
compass  in  the  literary  world,  a  handbook  to  all  writers  and  scholars."100 
Then,  in  1946,  Fu  Keng-sheng  in  his  Chung-\uo  wen-hsileh  p'i-p'ing 
t'ung-lun  said  of  the  Wen-hsin,  "Its  scope  is  comprehensive,  the  ideas 
it  contains  are  subtle  and  penetrating,  and  its  emphasis  is  balanced, 
without  deviating  from  the  norm.  Clear  in  its  definitions  and  logical 
and  systematic  in  its  categorization,  it  is  the  greatest  literary  critical 
work  ever  produced  in  the  whole  history  of  China."101  Occasionally 

100  pu  Tseng-hsiang,  "Hsu  Hsin-kung  chiao  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  pa,"  Ktio-ming  cha- 
chih,  X,  1 941. 

101  Fu  Keng-sheng,  Chung-hjio  wen-hsileh  p'i-p'ing  t'ung-lun  (Chungking,  1046.  and 
Shanghai,  1947). 


xlvi  Introduction 

we  hear  some  dissenting  note.  Ch'ao  Kung-wu  (flourishing  in  1144) 
criticized  the  factual  accuracy  of  certain  statements  made  by  Liu  Hsieh. 
But  most  writers  have  stood  by  Liu  Hsieh  with  unswerving  faith. 

Before  I  bring  this  introduction  to  a  close,  I  would  like  to  dwell 
briefly  on  the  difficulty  involved  in  a  study  of  Chinese  literary  criticism 
and  how  this  difficulty  may,  to  a  certain  extent,  be  eliminated.  One  of 
the  difficulties  is  to  grasp  firmly  the  meaning  of  the  terms  used  by 
Chinese  writers  and  critics.  In  general,  all  Chinese  terms  are  subject 
to  a  change  of  meaning  in  different  contexts;  but  this  is  especially  true 
in  literary  criticism.  Unless  we  know  exactly  what  certain  terms  mean 
in  certain  contexts,  we  are  at  a  loss  how  to  interpret  them.  This  diffi- 
culty is  increased  by  the  fact  that  many  writers  who  have  not  formed 
their  thought  with  any  degree  of  precision  take  advantage  of  the  con- 
fusion and  use  the  terms  with  abandon  in  an  effort  to  deck  themselves 
with  borrowed  elegance.  It  is  true  that  language  is  a  fluid  thing,  subject 
to  change  of  meaning  in  different  periods;  but  for  any  specific  period, 
there  must  be  some  kind  of  agreement  as  to  the  several  possible 
meanings  one  term  may  have — in  order  to  avoid  utter  chaos.  One  way 
to  get  out  of  this  difficult  situation  is  to  find  a  way  to  define  the  terms 
by  referring  to  the  contexts  in  which  they  actually  occur — a  procedure 
similar  to  the  one  I.  A.  Richards  has  followed  in  his  studies  of  Mencius. 
It  is  my  hope  that  some  day  I  may  have  an  opportunity  to  devote 
myself  to  this  task. 


THE  LITERARY  MIND  AND  THE 
CARVING  OF  DRAGONS 

by  Liu  Hsieh 


Preface1 


The  literary  mind  is  that  mind  which  strives  after  literary  forms.  In  a 
similar  sense,  Chiian-tzu  long  ago  wrote  Ch'ing-hsin  (The  mind  of  the 
lute),  and  Wang-sun  wrote  Ch'iao-hsin  (The  artistic  mind).2  What  an 
excellent  term  indeed  is  "mind!"  And  because  it  is,  I  have  used  it  too. 

And  since  from  time  immemorial  literature  has  always  been  charac- 
terized by  certain  embellishments,  I  am  not  implicating  myself  in  the 
type  of  "dragon  carving"  practiced  by  Tsou  Shih  and  his  group.3 

Now  with  respect  to  the  universe,  it  is  everlasting  and  boundless,  and 
in  it  we  find  people  of  all  types.  He  who  wants  to  stand  out  above  the 
others  must  depend  on  his  intelligence.  Time  is  fleeting  and  life  itself 
is  transitory.  If  a  man  really  wants  to  achieve  fame,  his  only  chance 
is  to  devote  himself  to  writing.  In  his  appearance,  man  resembles 
heaven  and  earth,  and  he  is  naturally  endowed  with  five  talents;  his 
ears  and  eyes  are  comparable  to  the  sun  and  moon;  his  voice  and 
breath  are  like  the  wind  and  thunder;  yet,  as  he  transcends  all  things, 
he  is  really  spiritual.  His  physical  form  may  be  as  fragile  as  the  grasses 
and  trees,  but  his  fame  is  more  substantial  than  metal  and  stone. 
Therefore,  a  man  of  virtue,  in  his  relationship  with  the  people  of  the 
world,  aims  at  establishing  both  his  character  and  his  words.  So  it  is 
not  that  I  simply  happen  to  be  fond  of  argument;  it  is  that  I  cannot 
do  otherwise  than  write.4 

1  This  chapter,  in  which  Liu  Hsieh  states  his  reason  for  the  choice  of  the  title  and  his 
reason  for  writing  the  book,  originally  appeared  at  the  end  of  the  work,  according  to 
common  practice  in  ancient  China. 

2  Both  Chiian-tzu 's  Ch'ing-hsin  and  Wang-sun-tzu's  Ch'iao-hsin  are  listed  in  the 
"I-wen-chih"  in  the  Han-shu.  Ch'iao-hsin,  also  known  as  Wang-sun-tzu,  is  listed  under 
"Ju-chia,"  the  Confucian  School.  See  Han-shu  (Taipei  ed.,  1956),  chiian  30,  p.  13b. 
Ch'ing-hsin  is  listed  under  "Tao-chia,"  the  Taoist  School.  See  ibid.,  p.   15b. 

3  The  term  "Tiao-lung,"  or  carving  of  dragons,  was  first  used  to  describe  the  ornate 
quality  of  Tsou  Shih's  writing.  The  biography  of  Hsiin  Ch'ing  in  the  Shih-chi  speaks 
of  him  as  "Tiao-lung  Shih."  P'ei  Yin,  in  his  commentary,  quoted  Liu  Hsiang  as  saying 
that  Tsou  Shih's  writing  was  patterned  after  the  ornate  style  of  Tsou  Yen,  and  was  like 

the  carving  of  dragons'  patterns.  Hence  he  was  known  as  "Tiao-lung  Shih."  Shih-chi, 
chiian  74,  p.   5a. 

4  Paraphrasing  Mencius.   See  Meng-tzu  yin-te,   24/3B/9;   25/3B/9. 


4  Preface 

As  a  child  of  seven  I  dreamed  of  colored  clouds  like  brocaded  silk  and 
that  I  climbed  up  and  picked  them.  When  over  thirty  years  of  age, 
I  dreamed  I  had  in  my  hand  the  painted  and  lacquered  ceremonial 
vessels  and  was  following  Confucius  and  travelling  toward  the  south. 
In  the  morning  I  awoke  happy  and  deeply  at  ease.  The  difficulty  of 
seeing  the  Sage  is  great  indeed,  and  yet  he  appeared  in  the  dream 
of  an  insignificant  fellow  like  me!  Since  the  birth  of  man  there  has 
never  been  anyone  like  the  Master.5  Now,  insofar  as  I  wished  to  propa- 
gate and  praise  the  teachings  of  the  Sage,  nothing  would  have  been 
better  than  to  write  commentaries  on  the  Classics.  However,  Ma, 
Cheng,6  and  others  have  already  given  us  their  penetrating  interpreta- 
tions of  these  Classics.  Even  if  I  had  had  some  profound  ideas  about 
them,  it  is  unlikely  that  they  would  have  been  sufficient  to  establish 
an  independent  school.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  function  of  wen-change 
or  literary  writing,  is  an  offshoot  of  the  function  of  the  Classics.  The 
Five  Rites7  are  accomplished  on  the  basis  of  literary  writing,  and  the 
Six  Government  Functions8  are  also  performed  with  its  aid.  The  rela- 
tionship between  ruler  and  ministers  is  made  clear  through  literary 
writing,  and  government  and  military  affairs  are  clearly  defined  by 
means  of  it.  And  if  one  traces  these  written  documents  back  to  their 
source,  it  is  found  to  be  none  other  than  the  Classics  themselves. 

However,  our  time  is  far  removed  from  that  of  the  Sage,  and  ortho- 
dox literary  style  has  declined.  Tz'u  writers  love  the  exotic,  and  prize 
in  their  writing  that  which  is  superficial  and  eccentric.  They  try  to 
"decorate  the  feather"  just  to  be  painting  and  will  attempt  to  embroider 
even  the  leather  handkerchief  bag.  All  these  writers  deviate  greatly 
from  their  true  source  in  pursuit  of  the  pretentious  and  the  excessive. 
But  in  the  Boo\  of  History  in  the  discussion  of  tz'u,  or  language,  it  is 

5  Another  paraphrase  of  Mencius.  Ibid.,  12/2A/2. 

6  Ma  Jung,  79-166;  Cheng  Hsiian,  127-200.  Both  are  great  classical  commentators. 

7  See  Chou-i  yin-te,  3 /19b,  commentary.  See  note  5,  Chapter  III,  for  the  list  of  the 
Five  Rites. 

8  Chou-i  yin-te,  1/9D.  They  are:  Chih  (in  charge  of  over-all  policy  making),  chiao 
(in  charge  of  education),  //'  (in  charge  of  rites),  cheng  (administration),  hsing  (law), 
and  shift  (in  charge  of  public  works). 


Preface  5 

said,  "In  writing  one  should  emphasize  the  essentials."9  And  when 
Confucius  presented  his  hsiin,  or  teachings,  he  showed  a  dislike  for 
unorthodoxy.  The  uniqueness  of  the  tz'u  and  the  hsiin  is  due  to  this 
emphasis  on  the  essential.  Therefore,  I  picked  up  my  brush,  mixed  the 
ink,  and  began  to  write  this  essay. 

In  modern  times  there  are  many  who  discuss  literature.  But  as  for 
Wei-wen's  Shu-tien,10  Ch'en-ssu's  Hsu-shu,11  Ying  Yang's  Wen-lun,12 
Lu  Chi's  Wen-fu,13  Chung-hsia's  Liu-pieh,1*  and  Hung-fan's  Han- 
lin15 — each  of  these  reflects  a  particular  corner  of  the  field;  few  have 
even  envisioned  the  whole  open  vista.  Some  praise  or  belittle  the  talents 
of  their  times;  some  evaluate  the  works  of  writers  of  the  past;  some 
vaguely  distinguish  between  the  graceful  and  the  vulgar  style;  and 
some  summarize  the  themes  of  various  essays.  Wei-wen's  Tien-lun  is 
detailed  but  not  comprehensive;  Ch'en-ssu's  letter  is  argumentative  but 
irrelevant;  Ying  Yang's  discussion  is  flowery  but  sketchy;  Lu  Chi's 
Wen-fu  is  artful  but  lacks  unity;  [Chih  Yii's]  Liu-pieh  is  fine  but 
ineffectual;  and  Li  Ch'ung's  Han-lin  is  shallow  and  divorced  from  the 
essentials.  There  have  also  been  Chiin-shan  [or  Huan  T'an],  Kung-kan 
[or  Liu  Chang],  Chi-fu  [or  Ying  Chen],  and  Shih-lung  [or  Lu  Yun], 
and  their  group,  who  discussed  literature  in  vague  and  general  terms; 
although  occasionally  they  produce  some  creative  ideas,  they  are 
unable  to  trace  back  from  the  leaves  to  the  roots,  or  back  from  the  tide 
to  its  source.  They  fail  to  transmit  the  teachings  of  the  earlier  sages, 
and  are  therefore  of  little  help  to  writers  to  come. 

In  writing  the  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  I  attempt  in  Chapter  I  to  show 

9  See  note  19,  Chapter  II. 

10  Ts'ao  P'ei's  Tien-lun  lun-wen,  Wen-hsuan,  chiian  52.  It  is  an  essay  on  style,  with 
particular  reference  to  the  Seven  Masters  of  the  Chien-an  period,  196-220. 

11  Ts'ao  Chih's  letter  to  Yang  Te-tsu.  See  ibid.,  chiian  42. 

12  See  1-wen  lei-chii,  chiian  22. 

13  See  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  17.  Wen-fu  is  available  in  three  English  translations:  The 
Art  of  Letters,  trans,  by  E.  R.  Hughes  (New  York,  1950);  Essay  on  Literature,  trans, 
by  Ch'en  Shih-hsiang  (rev.  ed.,  Portland,  1953);  and  Rhymeprose,  by  Archiles  Fang, 
Harvard  Journal  of  Asiatic  Studies,  XIV  [1951],  527-66. 

14  Chih  Yii's  Wen-chang  liu-pieh  lun.  Fragments  of  it  are  found  in  the  Ch'iian-chin 
wen,  chiian  77. 

15  Li  Ch'ung's  Han-lin  lun.  Fragments  are  found  in  the  Ch'iian-chin  wen,  chiian  53. 


6  Preface 

how  literature  has  its  source  in  the  Tao,  in  Chapter  II  how  it  takes 
its  model  from  the  Sage,  in  Chapter  III  how  it  adopts  the  pattern  of 
the  Classics,  in  Chapter  IV  how  it  consults  the  apocryphal  writings,  and 
in  Chapter  V  how  it  experiences  some  changes  in  the  Sao.  I  have  dealt 
with  the  crucial  factors  of  literature  exhaustively  here. 

In  discussing  wen,  or  writings  which  are  rhymed,  in  Chapters  V 
to  XIII,  and  pi,  unrhymed  writings,  in  Chapters  XVI  to  XXV,  I  have 
classified  them  into  separate  genres  and  traced  each  genre  back  to  its 
source  in  order  to  make  clear  its  development,  and  I  have  defined  a 
number  of  literary  terms  in  order  to  clarify  their  meaning.  I  have 
selected  several  literary  works  for  treatment  under  each  specific  topic, 
and  have  advanced  arguments  to  demonstrate  their  unity.  Thus  in  the 
first  part  of  the  book  a  clear  general  outline  is  presented. 

In  the  analysis  of  emotions  and  their  literary  expressions,  I  have 
sought  in  Chapters  XXXI  and  XXXII  to  determine  their  scope  system- 
atically. I  have  elaborated  on  the  theme  of  creative  thinking  in  Chapter 

XXVI,  and  dealt  with  the  relation  between  style  and  nature  in  Chapter 

XXVII.  I  have  analyzed  lyricism  in  Chapter  XXVIII,  and  explained 
how  to  choose  the  proper  style  in  Chapter  XXX.  I  have  developed  the 
principle  of  flexible  adaptability  to  changing  requirements  in  Chapter 
XXIX,  and  looked  into  the  use  of  musical  patterns  in  Chapter  XXXIII 
and  the  choice  of  words  in  Chapter  XXXIV.  The  theme  of  literary  de- 
velopment is  treated  in  Chapter  XLV,  entitled  "Shih-hsu,"  or  "Literary 
Development  and  Time,"  and  my  own  evaluation  of  several  literary 
talents  is  presented  in  Chapter  XLVII  entitled  "Ts'ai-liieh,"  or  "Literary 
Talents."  In  Chapter  XLVIII,  entitled  "Chih-yin,"  or  "An  Understand- 
ing Critic,"  I  express  my  sad  disappointment;  and  in  Chapter  XLIX, 
entitled  "Ch'eng-ch'i,"  or  "Capacity  of  a  Vessel,"  I  set  forth  my  impartial 
verdict  on  the  characters  of  several  literary  writers.  In  this  "Hsu-chih," 
or  "Preface,"  are  contained  the  ideas  which  sum  up  all  the  succeeding 
chapters.  Thus  in  the  second  part,  from  Chapter  XXVI  on,  the  sub- 
topics are  made  clear  in  all  their  details.  The  postulation  of  principles 
and  definition  of  terms  are  shown  in  the  number  of  the  Great  Change; 


Preface  7 

but  only  forty-nine  chapters  are  employed  for  the  elucidation  of 
literature.16 

It  is  easy  to  evaluate  and  discuss  a  specific  work  of  literature,  but 
rather  difficult  to  deal  comprehensively  and  critically  with  all  literary 
works.  Some  of  them  may  have  forms  as  light  as  fur  and  hair,  but  yet 
have  content  deeper  than  bone  and  marrow.  There  are  also  works 
without  number  whose  ideas  are  implicit  rather  than  explicit  and 
whose  source  is  hidden,  neither  ideas  nor  sources  being  directly  ex- 
pressed in  words.  In  appearance  they  may  look  commonplace,  but  they 
are  in  fact  very  profound.  As  for  my  evaluation  and  ranking  of  the 
existing  literary  works,  some  of  my  conclusions  are  the  same  as  those 
of  former  writers.  It  is  not  that  I  copied  them,  but  that  it  is  impossible 
to  differ  from  them.  And  if  some  of  my  judgments  differ  from  previous 
ones,  it  is  not  that  I  seek  difference  for  its  own  sake,  but  that  there 
are  certain  reasons  why  I  must  differ.  But  whether  identical  to  or 
different  from  previous  judgments,  mine  have  not  been  influenced  by 
either  the  modern  or  the  ancient  critics.  My  sole  purpose  has  been  to 
dissect  the  muscles  and  trace  the  veins  of  literature  and  endeavor  to 
discover  the  proper  standard.  As  for  my  achievement  in  coursing 
through  the  hunting  grounds  of  literature  and  looping  reins  in  the 
palace  of  rhetoric,  I  think  my  work  is  as  exhaustive  as  can  be  expected. 

However,  words  do  not  completely  express  ideas;17  it  is  difficult  even 
for  the  Sage  to  find  it  otherwise.  If  one's  knowledge  is  by  nature 
limited  to  the  capacity  of  a  jar  or  a  tube,  how  can  he  be  expected  to 
offer  all  the  general  principles?   Although  my   critical   hearing  has 

16  The  total  number  of  chapters  of  the  book  is  fifty.  As  one  chapter  is  a  preface,  only 
forty-nine  chapters  are  actually  concerned  with  literature.  In  the  Boo\  of  Changes,  we 
find  the  statement:  "The  number  of  the  Great  Operation  is  fifty;  but  only  forty-nine 
are  actually  used."  Chon-i  yin-te,  42/Hsi  shang/8.  The  operation  refers  to  the  process 
of  divination,  which  is  described  in  the  1-ching  or  Book,  of  Changes,  the  Richard  Wilhelm 
translation  rendered  into  English  by  Cary  F.  Baynes  (BollLngen  Series  XIX,  New  York, 
Pantheon  Books,  Inc.,  1955),  I,  333-36.  (All  subsequent  citations  to  the  1-ching  will  be 
to  this  edition.)  The  numbers  fifty  and  forty-nine  refer  to  the  number  of  yarrow  stalks. 
The  diviner  begins  with  fifty  yarrow  stalks,  but  actually  he  uses  only  forty-nine.  Some 
scholars  believe  that  "the  number  of  the  Great  Change"  ["Ta-i  chih-shu"]  should  be 
read  as  "the  number  of  the  Great  Operation"    ["Ta-yen  chih-shu"]. 

17  Chou-i  yin-te,  44/Hsi  shang/12. 


8  Preface 

been  cleansed  by  the  unlimited  experience  of  past  writers,  how  can  I 
be  sure  that  the  unseen  coming  generations  will  not  look  upon  this 
heritage  of  mine  as  dust? 

The  Tsan: 
Life  is  limited; 

Wisdom  alone  is  without  bound. 
The  pursuit  of  external  things  is  difficult, 

But  one  will  easily  succeed  if  he  works  in  accord  with  his  own  nature. 
Resolute,  like  a  boulder  in  a  creek  I  stand 
Absorbed  in  the  contemplation  of  literature. 
If  literature  is  truly  a  vehicle  for  the  mind,18 
My  mind  has  found  a  place  to  rest. 


L  On  Tao,  the  Source 


Wen,1  or  pattern,  is  a  very  great  power  indeed.  It  is  born  together 
with  heaven  and  earth.  Why  do  we  say  this?  Because  all  color-patterns 
are  mixed  of  black  and  yellow,2  and  all  shape-patterns  are  differentiated 
by  round  and  square.3  The  sun  and  moon  like  two  pieces  of  jade 
manifest  the  pattern  of  heaven;  mountains  and  rivers  in  their  beauty 

18  See  note  5,  Chapter  VI. 

1  The  term  "wen"  has  no  simple  English  equivalent.  As  it  is  used  here  at  the  outset 
of  the  treatise,  it  signifies  a  wide  variety  of  patterns  that  envelop  all  aspects  of  the 
universe.  The  fact  that  each  aspect  has  its  own  particular  pattern  seems  to  have  struck 
Liu  Hsieh  with  great  force.  The  use  of  a  single  term  to  cover  all  these  different  patterns 
suggests  that  in  Liu's  mind  the  presence  of  some  kind  of  pattern  is  the  common  feature 
of  all  aspects  of  the  universe. 

2  Conventionally,  black  is  the  color  of  heaven,  and  yellow  the  color  of  earth.  See  the 
Book,  of  Changes,  "Wen-yen,"  under  Hexagram  K'un;  Chou-i  yin-te  (Peking,  1935), 
4/2/yen.  Taken  together,  black  and  yellow  are  used  as  a  synecdoche  to  represent  all 
colors.  Synecdoche,  the  trope  in  which  a  part  is  used  to  stand  for  the  whole,  is  often 
employed  in  Chinese  writings. 

3  Another  synecdoche:  square,  the  conventional  shape  of  the  earth,  and  round,  the 
conventional  shape  of  heaven,  are  taken  together  to  mean  all  shapes. 


On  Tao,  the  Source  9 

display  the  pattern  of  earth.  These  are,  in  fact,  the  wen  of  Tao  itself. 
And  as  one  sees  above  the  sparkling  heavenly  bodies,  and  below  the 
manifold  forms  of  earth,  there  is  established  a  difference  between  high 
and  low  estate,  giving  rise  to  the  two  archetypal  Forms.4  Man,  and 
man  alone,  forms  with  these  the  Great  Trinity,  and  he  does  so  because 
he  alone  is  endowed  with  spirituality.  He  is  the  refined  essence  of  the 
five  elements — indeed,  the  mind  of  the  universe. 

Now  with  the  emergence  of  mind,  language  is  created,  and  when 
language  is  created,  writing  appears.  This  is  natural.  When  we 
extend  our  observations,  we  find  that  all  things,  both  animals  and 
plants,  have  patterns  of  their  own.  Dragons  and  phoenixes  portend 
wondrous  events  through  the  picturesqueness  of  their  appearance,  and 
tigers  and  leopards  recall  the  individuality  of  virtuous  men  in  their 
striped  and  spotted  variegation.5  The  sculptured  colors  of  clouds  sur- 
pass paintings  in  their  beauty,  and  the  blossoms  of  plants  depend  on  no 
embroiderers  for  their  marvellous  grace.  Can  these  features  be  due 
to  external  adornment?  No,  they  are  all  natural.  Furthermore,  the 
sounds  of  the  forest  wind  blend  to  produce  melody  comparable  to  that 
of  a  reed  pipe  or  lute,  and  the  music  created  when  a  spring  strikes 
upon  a  rock  is  as  melodious  as  the  ringing  tone  of  a  jade  instrument 
or  bell.  Therefore,  just  as  when  nature  expresses  itself  in  physical 
bodies  there  is  plastic  pattern,  so  also,  when  it  expresses  itself  in  sound, 
there  is  musical  pattern.  Now  if  things  which  are  devoid  of  conscious- 
ness express  themselves  so  extremely  decoratively,  can  that  which  is 
endowed  with  mind  lack  a  pattern  proper  to  itself? 

Human  pattern  originated  in  the  Supreme,  the  Ultimate.6  "Mysteri- 
ously assisting  the  gods,"7  the  images  of  the  Changes8  are  the  earliest 

4  Referring  to  the  two  principles,  yin  and  yang.  The  former  is  feminine,  passive,  and 
earthly;  the  latter  is  masculine,  active,  and  celestial. 

5  A  conventional  association.  See  Chou-i  yin-te,  30-31/49/5  hsiang. 

6  A  reference  to  a  statement  in  the  Boof{  of  Changes,  "There  is  in  the  Changes  the 
Supreme  Ultimate,"  Chou-i  yin-te,  43/Hsi,  shang/n  (12).  The  English  version  of 
Richard  Wilhelm's  German  translation  renders  "T'ai-chi"  as  "the  Great  Primal  Begin- 
ning." See  /  Ching,  I,  342. 

7  Chou-i  yin-te  49/Shuo/i. 

8  The  Boo\  of  Changes  is  originally  a  book  on  divination.  With  the  addition  of  later 
commentaries,  the  ten  wings,  and  particularly  the  "Hsi-ts'u,"  it  becomes  a  philosophical 


io  On  Tao,  the  Source 

expressions  of  this  pattern.  Pao  Hsi9  began  [the  Boo\  of  Changes]  by 
drawing  [the  eight  trigrams],  and  Confucius  completed  it  by  writing 
the  "Wings."10  [One  of  these  Wings],  the  "Wen-yen"  or  "Words  with 
Pattern,"  was  written  especially  to  explain  the  "Ch'ien"  and  the 
"K'un."11  Words  with  pattern  indeed  express  the  mind  of  the  universe! 
From  Ho-t'u,  the  Yellow  River  Map,  were  born  the  eight  trigrams, 
and  from  Lo-shu,  the  Writing  from  the  River  Lo,12  came  the  nine 
categories.13  For  these  and  for  the  fruits  contained  in  the  jade  and 
gold  decorated  tablets  and  the  flowers  blooming  in  red  words  and 
green  strips14  was  any  one  responsible?  No.  They  are  natural,  organic 
expressions  of  the  Divine. 

When  birds'  markings  replaced  knotted  cords,  writing  first 
emerged.15  The  facts  about  Yen  and  Hao  are  recorded  in  the  San-fen,16 

work  of  great  importance.  Many  translations  have  been  made,  among  which  the  English 
one  by  James  Legge  and  the  German  one  by  Richard  Wilhelm  are  the  best  known. 
References  in  these  notes  are  to  the  English  translation  by  Cary  F.  Baynes  of  the  Wilhelm 
German  translation. 

The  main  text  is  composed  of  64  hexagrams,  each  of  which  contains  six  lines. 
Commentaries,  or  "judgments"  on  these  hexagrams  and  lines  were  attributed  to 
King  Wen. 

9  Better  known  as  Fu  Hsi,  one  of  the  three  legendary  Huang,  or  Emperors,  identified 
as  T'ai  Hao  in  the  Pai-hu-t'ung.  See  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "San-huang  chi." 

10  See  note  47,  "Introduction." 

11  There  are  sixty-four  hexagrams  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes,  of  which  Ch'ien  and  K'un 
are  the  most  important  two,  treated  at  the  beginning  of  the  Book.  "Wen-yen"  is  one 
of  the  ten  "Wings,"  sometimes  rendered  as  "Words,"  attributed  by  early  scholars  to 
Confucius,  who  devoted  it  to  the  explanation  of  the  first  two  hexagrams  because  of 
their  special  significance.  The  term  "wen"  used  here  is  the  same  "wen"  used  to  designate 
"pattern."  Since  "Wen-yen"  was  supposedly  from  the  pen  of  Confucius,  Liu  Hsieh  seems 
to  have  authority  for  attaching  importance  to  the  term  "wen." 

12  Shang-shu  Chung-hou  wo  ho  chi,  an  apocryphal  work,  quoted  by  Ma  Kuo-han  in 
the  l-shu,  is  reported  to  have  contained  the  statement,  "A  dragon  in  the  Yellow  River 
presented  the  Map,  and  a  tortoise  in  the  Lo  River  carried  the  Writing.  These,  with  red 
words  and  green  characters,  were  given  to  Hsiian-yiian"  (the  Yellow  Emperor). 

13  Chou-i  yin-te,  44 /Hsi,  shang/11.  For  the  "nine  categories,"  see  "Hung  Fan"  in  the 
Boo\  of  History.  For  the  "Map"  and  the  "Writing"  see  l-ching,  I,  332-33. 

14  Jade  tablets,  red  words,  and  green  characters  appear  quite  frequently  in  apocryphal 
writings  purporting  to  supplement  by  elaboration  the  ideas  advanced  in  the  Classics. 
These  writings  were  the  works  of  the  Han  scholars. 

15  Hsu  Shen,  the  first  important  Chinese  lexicographer,  said  in  the  preface  to  his 
Shuo-wen,  the  first  dictionary,  that  Ts'ang  Chieh  began  to  write  on  the  basis  of  the 
markings  of  birds  and  animals.  Hence  by  "birds'  markings"  is  meant  writing. 

16  San-fen  and  Wu-tien  are  mentioned  in  Tso-chuan,  under  the  12th  year  of  Duke 
Chao;  they  were  taken  to  mean  the  records  of  the  three  Huang  and  the  five  Emperors. 


On  Tao,  the  Source  II 

but  since  they  took  place  in  such  a  distant  past,  their  sound  and  color 
are  beyond  our  ken.  It  was  during  the  T'ang  and  the  Yu  reigns  that 
writing  really  began  to  flourish.  The  "Ode  to  the  Chief"17  is  the  first 
expression  of  poetic  sentiment,  and  the  narrative  account  of  "I-chi"  set 
a  precedent  for  future  memorials.  Then  the  House  of  Hsia  arose,  with 
its  lofty  achievements  and  great  merits.  "The  nine  regulated  accom- 
plishments were  written  into  songs,"18  and  the  House  became  still 
richer  in  attainments  and  virtue. 

By  the  time  of  the  Shang  and  the  Chou,  literary  form  surpassed  its 
substance.  The  contents  of  the  "Ya"  and  the  "Sung"19  shine  fresher 
daily  in  their  flowery  brilliance.  When  King  Wen  was  in  trouble,  his 
oracular  judgments  glowed  bright;20  couched  in  rich  and  cryptic 
language,  they  contain  subtle  meanings,  solidly  grounded  and  pro- 
found. And  Tan,  the  versatile  Duke  of  Chou,  gloriously  surpassed  even 
these  achievements  by  writing  poetry  and  compiling  the  "Sung," 
improving  the  literary  qualities  of  all  writing.  Our  Master  [Confucius], 
standing  without  peer  among  the  early  masters,  continued  this  tradi- 
tion of  the  sages  of  the  past.  The  six  Classics,  since  he  has  cast  and 
molded  them,  ring  out  the  resonant  music  of  bronze  and  jade;  they 
present  the  refined  principles  chiseling  human  emotions  and  nature, 
as  they  furnish  outlines  for  all  literary  forms.  The  clapping  of  his 
wooden  bell21  was  answered  for  one  thousand  li  around,  and  his  influ- 
ence will  find  an  echo  ten  thousand  years  from  now.  He  expresses  in 
literary  form  the  light  of  the  universe,  and  opens  the  ears  and  eyes 
of  all  the  people. 

17  In  the  section  entitled  "I-chi"  in  the  Boof^  of  History. 

18  Quoted  from  "Ta-yii  mu"  in  the  Boo/{  of  History,  where  the  nine  accomplishments 
refer  to  the  regulation  of  the  six  treasures,  water,  fire,  metal,  wood,  earth,  and  grain,  and 
the  three  businesses,  the  rectification  of  the  people's  character,  the  conveniences  of  life, 
and  the  securing  of  an  abundant  livelihood.  See  Legge,  The  Chinese  Classics,  Pt.  II,  Bk. 
II,  Ch.  II,  7,  p.  56. 

19  Two  of  the  three  sections  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  containing  poetry  of  the  upper 
classes  and  ceremonial  or  sacrificial  songs  respectively. 

20  The  judgments  on  the  hexagrams  and  lines  were  attributed  to  King  Wen,  who  was 
said  to  have  written  these  when  he  was  imprisoned  by  the  ruler  of  the  Shang. 

21  Confucius  was  compared  to  a  wooden  bell,  sounding  warning  to  the  people.  See 
"Pa-i"  in  the  Analects. 


12  On  Tao,  the  Source 

From  the  time  of  Master  Feng22  to  the  time  of  Confucius,  both 
Feng,  the  first  sage,  who  invented  writing,  and  the  "King  Without 
Crown,"23  who  transmitted  the  teachings,  drew  their  literary  embellish- 
ments from  the  mind  of  Tao,  and  both  taught  by  reference  to  divine 
principles.  Both  took  images  from  the  Yellow  River  Map  and  the 
Lo  River  Writing,  and  both  divined  by  means  of  milfoil  stems  and 
tortoise  shells.  Both  observed  heavenly  patterns  in  order  to  comprehend 
their  changes  exhaustively,  and  both  studied  human  patterns  of 
behavior  in  order  to  transform  them.  It  was  in  this  way  that  they 
were  able  to  legislate  for  the  universe24  and  to  establish  the  principles 
governing  human  society,  to  achieve  gloriously  in  fact,  as  well  as  to 
beautify  literary  forms  and  ideas.  From  these  things  we  know  that  Tao 
is  handed  down  in  writing  through  sages,  and  that  sages  make  Tao 
manifest  in  their  writings.  This  principle  may  be  extended  to  all 
things  without  difficulty,  day  after  day,  without  exhausting  its  applica- 
tions. The  Boo\  of  Changes  says,  "The  stimulation  of  all  celestial 
movements  depends  upon  the  oracular  judgments,"25  and  their  power 
to  stimulate  the  celestial  world  is  derived  from  the  pattern  of  Tao. 

The  Tsan:26 
The  mind  of  Tao  is  subtle,27 

22  A  commentator  on  the  Li-chi  (Book  of  rites)  in  connection  with  a  passage  in  the 
"Yueh-ling"  (Monthly  guide  for  a  ruler)  gives  Feng  as  the  surname  of  Fu  Hsi. 

23  "King  Without  Crown,"  a  title  given  to  Confucius  by  scholars — particularly  scholars 
of  the  New-script  School  during  the  Han  and  Wei  periods,  who  held  that  Confucius, 
with  his  virtue,  should  rule,  although  actually  he  did  not. 

24  This  idea  of  legislation  on  a  cosmic  scale  need  not  be  surprising;  Immanuel  Kant 
speaks  of  the  mind  as  the  legislator  of  the  universe;  and  a  Sung  philosopher,  Chang  Tsai, 
aimed  at  establishing  the  Mind  of  the  Universe. 

25  Chou-i  yin-te,  44/Hsi,  shang/12;  1-ching,  I,  348.  The  term  rendered  here  as  "judg- 
ments" is  "tz'u,"  which  means  also  term,  statement,  or  proposition.  Liu  Hsieh  seems  to 
have  capitalized  on  this  ambiguous  association  of  these  different  meanings  of  the  term 
to  facilitate  his  moving  from  the  importance  of  the  oracle  judgments  to  the  significance 
of  linguistic  form. 

26  The  Tsan,  as  used  in  this  work,  is  a  form  of  rhymed  poetry  with  four-word  lines, 
treated  by  the  author  himself  in  Chapter  9,  where  he  says  that  its  functions  are  to  assist 
in  the  explanation  of  the  subject,  to  pass  value  judgments  on  the  subject,  and  to  give  a 
summary  of  the  subject  treated. 

27  Quoted  from  "Ta-yii  mu"  in  the  Book,  of  History;  this  chapter  has  been  proved  to 
be  a  forgery,  a  fact  not  known  to  Liu  Hsieh.  Hsiintzu,  in  his  chapter  "Chieh-pi"   (On 


Evidence  from  the  Sage  13 

And  it  is  taught  through  divine  principles. 

Glory  to  the  first  sage, 

Who  made  articulate  the  principles  of  love  and  filial  piety. 

The  Map  the  dragon  carried  presents  the  substance, 

And  the  Writing  the  tortoise  brought  makes  manifest  the  form 

Here  may  be  seen  the  patterns  of  heaven 

Which  serve  all  people  as  models. 


//.  Evidence  from  the  Sage 


The  creative  man  is  called  a  sage;  the  man  who  transmits,  an 
understanding  scholar.1  To  cultivate  human  nature  and  emotions  is 
the  mission  of  the  great  Sage.  "The  literary  form  of  the  teaching  of 
the  Master  is  available  to  us";2 — we  have  the  sentiments  of  the  Sage 
expressed  in  writing.  The  wise  teachings  of  former  kings  are  recorded 
on  wooden  and  bamboo  strips,  and  the  graceful  expressions  of  the 
Master  overflow  in  his  aphorisms.3  When  praising  the  ancient  T'ang 
dynasty  [when  literature  first  began  to  flourish],  he  described  [its  ruler 
Yao]  as  brilliant  and  great  [in  mastery  of  literary  form];4  he  also 
praised  the  contemporary  Chou  [when  literary  form  surpassed  its 
substance],  calling  its  culture  rich  and  worthy  of  adoption.5  This  shows 
us  what  importance  Confucius  attached  to  literary  form  in  government 
and  education.  When  the  Earl  of  Cheng  entered  Ch'en,  Confucius 

prejudice),  quoted  lines  which  differ  from  those  found  in  the  Boo\  of  History  in  only 
one  insignificant  particle  from  a  Tao-ching.  The  Tao-ching  was  interpreted  by  the  com- 
mentators on  the  Hsiintzu  as  an  ancient  work  on  moral  principles. 

1  See  Li-chi  yin-te  (Peking,  1937),  19/3. 

2  Lun-yti  yin-te  (Peking,  1940),  8/5/13,  where  Tzu  Kung  stated  that  the  Master's 
literary  form  might  be  heard  while  his  doctrine  on  nature  and  the  way  of  heaven  is 
hardly  ever  touched  upon. 

3  Referring  to  Lun-yii,  the  Analects. 

4  Lun-yti  yin-te,  15/8/19,  where  Confucius  is  recorded  to  have  said  of  Yao,  "brilliant 
with  literary  form." 

■JMf,  5/3/14. 


14  Evidence  from  the  Sage 

believed  that  it  was  his  mastery  of  rhetoric  which  brought  him  success.6 
And  when  the  people  of  Sung  entertained  [Wen-tzu  from  Chao]  by 
preparing  a  formal  feast,  Confucius  commended  them  for  the  observ- 
ance of  proper  ceremony  shown  in  their  attention  to  the  language 
they  used.7  This  shows  us  what  importance  Confucius  attached  to 
literary  form  in  practical  affairs.  In  praising  Tzu-ch'an,  Confucius 
said,  "His  words  are  adequate  for  the  expression  of  his  ideas,  and  his 
literary  forms  are  adequate  to  ornament  his  words,"8  and  in  his  general 
discussion  of  a  superior  man  he  said,  "One  should  be  truthful  in  one's 
sentiments,  but  also  masterly  in  expression."9  This  shows  us  what 
importance  Confucius  attached  to  literary  form  in  self-cultivation. 
Ideas  adequately  expressed  by  words  combined  into  literary  forms — 
sincere  sentiments  embodied  in  masterly  expressions:  these  are  the 
touchstones  of  literary  composition. 

Our  Master  was  as  discerning  as  the  sun  and  the  moon,10  and  as 
sublime  as  the  spiritual  working  of  the  universe.  His  literary  forms 
are  perfect  examples  and  his  ideas  are  perfectly  coherent.  Sometimes 
he  employs  only  a  few  words  to  convey  an  idea,  and  sometimes  he 
indulges  in  a  comprehensive  discussion  of  all  his  sentiments.  Sometimes 
he  reveals  the  nature  of  a  thing  by  pointing  out  the  pattern  it  exhibits, 
and  sometimes  he  implies  the  function  of  it  through  cryptic  innuendo. 
In  the  Spring  and  Autumn  he  uses  one  word  to  express  both  praise 
and  censure  and  in  "San-fu"  he  expresses  a  greater  category  under 
the  form  of  a  lesser.11  These  illustrate  his  expression  of  an  idea  in  a 
few  words.  In  the  "Pin"  lyrics  we  find  many  verses  with  many  lines 
each,  and  in  "Ju-hsing"  there  are  long  discussions  and  ornate  rhetoric.12 
These  illustrate  his  indulgence  in  comprehensive  discussions  of  all  his 
sentiments.   Writing   chiefly    characterized   by    critical   judgment   he 

6  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te  (Peking,  1937),  307/Hsiang  25/7  Tso  fu  2. 

7  Ibid.,  316/Hsiang  27/5  Tso.  8  See  note  6. 
*Li-chi,  32/26. 

10  The  sun  and  the  moon  have  traditionally  been  considered  to  see  as  well  as  to 
illuminate  all  they  shine  upon. 

11  Application  of  the  principle  involved  in  a  fortiori  reasoning. 

12  Confucius  was  assumed  to  be  the  author  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  of  which  "Pin-feng" 
(lyrics  from  the  Pin  region)  is  a  section.  "Ju-hsing"  is  a  chapter  in  the  Li-chi. 


Evidence  from  the  Sage  15 

symbolizes  by  the  hexagram  l(uai  [which  means  "to  judge"],13  and 
writing  chiefly  characterized  by  logical  clarity  he  symbolizes  by  the 
hexagram  li  [which  stands  for  fire  and  the  sun].14  These  illustrate  how 
he  reveals  the  nature  of  a  thing  by  pointing  out  the  pattern  it  exhibits. 
In  the  Four  Images15  there  is  profound  meaning  which  is  delicate  and 
cryptic,  and  in  the  Five  Illustrations16  the  language  is  connotative, 
implicative.  These  illustrate  how  he  implies  the  function  of  a  thing 
through  cryptic  innuendo. 

From  all  these  examples  we  can  see  how  literary  pieces  differ  in  their 
form,  some  being  diffuse  and  others  concise;  and  we  see  also  that  they 
vary  in  their  method  of  presentation,  which  is  sometimes  veiled 
[suggestive,  evocative],  and  sometimes  lucid.  The  choice  of  either 
method  must  depend  on  the  occasion,  remaining  flexibly  adaptable  to 
all  changing  circumstances.  If  one  looks  for  examples  in  the  writing 
of  the  Duke  of  Chou  and  of  Confucius,  he  will  have  obtained  models 
for  his  literary  compositions.  In  discussing  questions,  one  must  seek 
the  guidance  of  the  sages,  and  in  one's  efforts  to  understand  the  sages, 
one  must  make  the  Classics  one's  teachers.17 

The  Boo\  of  Changes  says,  "When  things  have  been  correctly  dis- 
tinguished and  the  language  expressing  them  has  been  made  accurate, 
then  decisive  judgments  are  complete."18  And  the  Boo^  of  History  says, 
"In  the  choice  of  language  one  should  emphasize  the  essential  and 
should  not  indulge  in  the  extraordinary."19  So  we  know  that  the  way 
to  establish  significant  distinctions  is  by  using  language  accurately;  and 
the  way  to  perfect  writing  is  to  emphasize  the  essential.  If  the  writing 

13  Chou-i  yin-te,  46/Hsi,  hsia/2.  K'uai  is  hexagram  43,  meaning  to  distinguish,  hence 
to  judge. 

14  Li  is  hexagram  30. 

15  Chou-i,  44/Hsi,  shang/n.  There  are  many  interpretations  regarding  the  Four 
Images.  The  following  is  Shao  Yung's  interpretation:  yin  or  feminine  principle,  yang  or 
male  principle,  Kang  or  strength,  and  jou  or  softness. 

16  See  Tu  Yu's  Ch'un-ch'iu  Tso-chuan  hsii,  where  the  Five  Illustrations  are  given: 
(1)  subtle  although  apparent;  (2)  full  of  meaning  although  unassuming;  (3)  pursuasive 
although  objective;  (4)  exhaustive  but  well-knit;  and  (5)  both  admonishing  and 
exhortatory. 

17  Reading  with  a  handwritten  version  quoted  by  Sun  Tjang  in  his  Cha-i. 

18  Chou-i  yin-te,  48/Hsi,  hsia/5. 

19  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien  (Peking,  1936),  44/0218-0225. 


16  Evidence  from  the  Sage 

is  thus  perfect,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  succumbing  to  the  love  of 
the  extraordinary;  and  if  significant  distinctions  are  thus  established, 
decisive  judgments  will  emerge.  The  fact  that  profound  ideas  may 
be  obscure  will  not  mean  that  the  language  is  not  accurate;  and  the 
fact  that  the  subtlety  of  a  thing's  expression  may  merely  connote  or 
imply  meaning  will  not  mean  that  the  essential  element  is  not  stressed : 
the  essential  element  and  the  subtlety  of  the  expression  will  be  achieved 
together;  and  accurate  language  and  profound  ideas  will  coexist.  We 
may  observe  these  literary  accomplishments  in  the  works  of  the  sages. 
Yen  Ho  spoke  of  Confucius  as  "decorating  feathers  by  painting  them ; 
futilely  employing  florid  language."20  But  in  his  deprecation  of  the  Sage 
he  fails.  The  literary  works  of  the  Sage  owe  their  grace  and  beauty 
to  the  fact  that  they  are  full  of  both  flowers  and  fruits.  Even  in  the 
case  of  the  Way  of  Heaven  [the  obscure  doctrine  which  the  Master's 
disciples  themselves]  hardly  heard  of,21  we  still  try  to  find  it  out;  in 
the  case  of  the  literary  forms  which  are  accessible  to  us,  should  we 
neglect  to  study  these?  No,  for  if  one  would  follow  the  example  of  the 
Sage  in  organizing  his  writing,  his  literary  efforts  would  almost 
certainly  be  rewarded  with  success. 

The  Tsan: 
Superbly  divine,  he  [Confucius]  was  born  with  knowledge;22 
Sagacious  and  wise,  he  ruled  supreme. 
Profound  reason  shapes  his  literary  theme, 

And  his  breath,  full  of  talent,  weaves  itself  into  exquisite  patterns. 
His  discernment  is  comparable  to  that  of  the  sun  and  the  moon, 
And  his  expressions  contain  more  wealth  than  mountains  and  seas. 
Though  his  shadow  faded  within  a  hundred  years, 
After  a  thousand  ages  his  mind  still  shines. 

20  Chuang-tzu  yin-te,  89/32/27. 

21  See  note  2. 

22  Lun-yii  yin-te,  34/16/9,  where  Confucius  speaks  of  three  kinds  of  men,  distinguished 
by  three  ways  of  possessing  knowledge:  the  highest  type  is  he  who  is  born  with  knowl- 
edge; next  comes  he  who  obtains  it  through  learning;  and  lowest  is  he  who  slaves 
to  get  it. 


///.  The  Classics  as  Literary  Sources 


The  works  dealing  with  the  universal  principles  of  the  Great  Trinity 
[heaven,  earth,  and  man]  are  known  as  ching?-  By  ching  we  mean  an 
expression  of  the  absolute  or  constant  Tao  or  principle,  that  great 
teaching  which  is  unalterable.  Therefore,  the  ching  faithfully  reflect 
heaven  and  earth,  spirits  and  gods.  They  help  to  articulate  the  order 
of  things  and  to  set  up  the  rules  governing  human  affairs.  In  them  is 
found  both  the  secret  of  nature  and  spirit  and  the  very  bone  and 
marrow  of  fine  literature. 

First  came  the  San-fen  of  the  Three  Sovereigns,  followed  by  Wu-tien 
of  the  five  emperors,  Pa-so  and  Chiu-ch'iu.2  As  years  passed,  this  main 
stream  developed  a  great  welter  of  branches  and  side-eddies.  But 
after  our  Master  edited  and  handed  down  this  material,  those  great 
treasures,  the  Classics,  began  to  shine  through.  The  Boo\  of  Changes 
spread  out  its  ten  Wings,  or  Commentaries.  The  Boo\  of  History 
displayed  its  seven  Views.3  The  Boo\  of  Poetry  listed  the  four  begin- 
nings.4 The  Boo\  of  Rites  described  the  five  kinds  of  Rites.5  And  the 
Spring  and  Autumn  presented  the  Five  Illustrations.6 

Here  are  principles  which  are  absolute  in  regard  to  human  nature 
and  emotions,  and  here  is  language  which  conforms  to  the  best  literary 

1  Ching  is  rendered  into  English  as  "classics"  in  the  sense  that  they  have  stood  the 
test  of  time  and  are  universal  and  constant. 

2  See  K'ung  An-kuo's  "Shang-shu  hsu,"  where  the  Pa-so  is  said  to  be  about  the  eight 
trigrams,  and  the  Chiu-ch'iu  geographical  accounts  of  the  nine  continents. 

3  In  the  Shang-shu  ta-chuan,  the  Boo\  of  History  is  divided  into  seven  sections,  and 
through  each  section  one  is  able  to  view  one  quality.  These  are:  righteousness,  benevo- 
lence, sincerity,  capacity,  affairs,  good  government,  and  beauty. 

*  There  are  several  interpretations  of  these  four  beginnings.  In  the  "Mao  shih-hsii," 
the  four  beginnings  mean  "Feng,"  "Ta-ya,"  "Hsiao-ya,"  and  "Sung."  Cheng  Hsiian 
commented,  "By  shih  or  the  beginning  is  meant  that  by  way  of  which  the  kingly  way 
prospers  and  declines."  Another  view  is  expressed  in  "K'ung-tzu  shih-chia"  (the  biog- 
raphy of  Confucius)  in  the  Shih-chi  (The  historical  records):  "Kuan-chii"  is  the 
beginning  of  the  "Feng,"  "Lu-ming"  the  beginning  of  the  "Hsiao-ya,"  "Wen-wang" 
the  beginning  of  the  "Ta-ya,"  and  "Ch'ing-miao"  the  beginning  of  the  "Sung." 

5  The  Five  Rites  are:  for  sacrifice,  for  melancholy  occasions,  for  hospitality,  for  military 
ceremonies,  and  for  auspicious  occasions. 

6  See  note  16,  Chapter  II. 


1 8  The  Classics  as  Literary  Sources 

principles.  As  a  consequence  the  ching  can  unfold  the  student's  under- 
standing and  cultivate  in  him  the  proper  principles;  their  "light  shines 
far  and  wide."7 

The  mind  of  Tao  is  subtle,  and  the  thinking  of  the  Sage  transcendent: 
when  the  walls  and  eaves  are  many  and  high,  breathing  is  naturally 
deep:  a  bell  of  ten  thousand  weights  will  not  ring  out  petty  sounds. 

The  Boo\  of  Changes  deals  with  T'ien;  it  has  penetrated  the  divine 
order,  to  fulfill  itself  fruitfully.8  Accordingly,  the  "Hsi-tz  u"9  says  that 
it  has  boundless  implications,  its  critical  judgments  are  of  high  literary 
quality,  its  language  is  accurate,  and  its  symbolism  deep  :10  "The  leather 
cords  broke  three  times"11 — what  a  profound  source  of  ideas  this  has 
proved  to  be  for  the  Sage! 

The  Boo\  of  History  truthfully  records  what  has  been  spoken.12 
Although  the  terms  used  are  hard  to  understand,  if  one  masters  the 
Erh-ya13  the  ideas  will  be  comprehensible.  Tzu-hsia,  [a  disciple  of 
Confucius  who  specialized  in  literature],  in  his  praise  of  the  Boo\  of 
History  calls  it  "brilliant  as  the  light  of  the  sun  and  the  moon  and 
orderly  as  the  configurations  of  the  stars,"14  which  testifies  to  its  clarity. 

The  purpose  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  is  to  express  feelings  and  senti- 
ments. The  terms  used  in  it  are  to  be  studied  in  the  same  way  as  those 
used  in  the  Boo\  of  History.  The  way  the  lyrics  are  written  and  the 
metaphors  forged,  the  way  the  theses  are  embellished  and  the  parables 
contrived,  create  an  effect  of  warmth  and  tenderness  when  these  poems 
are  recited,  an  effect  which  deeply  moves  the  heart. 

The  Boo\  of  Rites  aims  at  the  establishment  of  traditions.  It  formu- 
lates the  basic  principles  governing  social  customs.  The  principles  and 

7  A  line  quoted  from  the  Book,  of  Poetry,  Mao-shih  yin-te,  63/247/3. 

8  Chou-i  yin-te,  46/Hsi,  hsia/3:  "The  profound  idea  has  entered  the  divine  state  for 
the  purpose  of  bringing  about  its  fruitful  functioning." 

9  Ibid.,  48/Hsi,  hsia/5. 

10  Ibid.,  48/Hsi,  hsia/5:  "The  meanings  are  far-reaching,  the  judgments  are  well 
ordered.  The  words  are  roundabout  but  they  hit  the  mark.  Things  are  openly  set  forth, 
but  they  contain  also  a  deeper  secret."  I-ching,  I,  370. 

11  Quoted  from   "K'ung-tzu  shih-chia,"  the  biography  of  Confucius,  in  the  Shih-chi. 

12  The  Han-shu,  "I-wen  chih":  "The  historian  on  the  left  records  what  is  spoken." 

13  A  dictionary  of  terms  used  in  the  Classics  arranged  according  to  meanings. 

14  Quoted  from  the  Shang-shu  ta-chuan. 


The  Classics  as  Literary  Sources  19 

corollaries  are  subtle  and  oblique,  and  become  clear  only  through 
practical  application.  Every  single  phrase  selected  from  it  is  a  treasure. 

The  Spring  and  Autumn  is  characterized  by  its  clear  reasoning. 
Reason  may  appear  in  the  choice  of  a  single  word.  "Five  meteorites" 
and  "Six  fishhawks"15  are  two  examples  of  a  pattern  of  composition 
marked  by  a  thoroughness  in  reasoning.  In  the  case  of  "The  Chih 
gate  and  the  two  gates,"16  reason  appears  in  the  order:  precedence  and 
sequence.  To  be  so  subtle  and  yet  so  apparent,  so  full  of  meaning  yet 
so  unassuming,  is  to  be  genuinely  profound.17 

In  the  case  of  the  Boo\  of  History,  its  language  may  appear  strange 
to  the  reader,  but  when  he  looks  for  its  ruling  principles  he  will  find 
them  indicated  very  clearly.  In  the  case  of  the  Spring  and  Autumn,  its 
language  may  seem  readily  understandable,  but  when  the  reader  seeks 
the  meaning  of  it  he  begins  to  realize  its  depth.  These  two  works 
illustrate  different  patterns  of  writing  from  the  hands  of  sages,  as  well 
as  different  methods  of  approach,  objective  and  subjective.18 

15  Ch'un-ch'iu  Ching-chuan  yin-te,  in/Hsi  16/1.  "There  were  falling  meteorites  in 
the  state  of  Sung,  five  in  number.  .  .  .  And  there  were  six  fishhawks  flying  backward 
over  the  capital  of  Sung."  Commentary  by  Kung-yang  says:  "Why  is  'falling'  first 
mentioned  and  then  'meteorites'?  It  is  because  this  was  a  record  about  what  one  heard. 
First  one  heard  the  sound  of  falling.  Looking  at  them,  he  found  them  to  be  meteorites. 
After  a  closer  observation  he  discovered  them  to  be  five  in  number.  Why  is  the  number 
'six'  first  mentioned  and  then  'fishhawks'?  Because  in  the  case  of  'the  six  fishhawks  flying 
backward'  it  was  a  record  about  what  one  saw.  Looking  at  them,  one  found  them  to  be 
six  in  number.  Looking  closer,  he  saw  them  to  be  fishhawks.  After  watching  them  at 
leisure,  he  discovered  them  to  be  flying  backward."  For  these  reasons,  the  Spring  and 
Autumn  is  held  to  be  logical,  that  is,  a  work  characterized  by  reason. 

16  Ch'un-ch'iu  Ching-chuan  yin-te,  439/Ting  2/2  Kung-yang.  "Chih  gate  and  the  two 
gates  were  destroyed  by  fire."  "Chih  gate"  is  the  south  gate  of  the  royal  palace,  and 
the  two  gates  are  those  outside  the  Chih  gate  where  proclamations  are  posted.  Chih  gate 
is  apparently  more  important  than  the  two  gates.  The  commentary  by  Kung-yang  says: 
"Why  does  the  record  say  'Chih  gate  and  the  two  gates  were  destroyed  by  fire'?  It  is 
because  the  two  gates  were  not  important.  Why  then  does  it  not  say  Chih  gate  was 
destroyed  by  fire  and  the  fire  was  extended  to  the  two  gates?  It  is  because  it  was  the 
two  gates  which  were  [first]  destroyed  by  fire.  Then  why  is  it  mentioned  last?  It  is 
because  [the  historian]  did  not  wish  to  proceed  from  the  less  important  to  the  more 
important." 

17  See  note  16,  Chapter  II. 

18  The  whole  section  beginning  with  the  line  "The  Boo\  of  Changes  deals  with 
Tien"  to  this  point  is  taken  verbatim  from  Wang  Ts'an's  writing  without  acknowl- 
edgement by  Liu  Hsieh.  However,  such  a  practice  was  quite  common  in  the  early  times, 
and  should   not  be  considered   as  plagiarism.   Wang's   writing  is   found   in  both   l-wen 


20  The  Classics  as  Literary  Sources 

These  Classics  have  deep  roots  and  luxuriant  branches  and  foliage. 
The  language  is  concise  but  the  content  is  meaningful;  the  facts  are 
commonplace,  but  their  metaphorical  implications  are  unlimited.  So, 
although  they  are  ancient,  their  flavor  remains  fresh.  Later  scholars 
take  them  up  and  do  not  feel  that  they  have  become  outmoded;  scholars 
in  the  past  long  used  them  and  never  felt  that  they  were  ahead  of 
their  times.  They  may  be  compared  to  Mount  T'ai,  which  waters  all  the 
lands  about,  or  to  the  Yellow  River,  which  moistens  one  thousand  li. 

Thus,  the  Boo\  of  Changes  originates  the  lun  or  discursive,  shuo  or 
argumentative,  tzu  or  oracular,  and  hsu  or  prefatory  forms  of  writing. 
The  Boo\  of  History  is  the  source  of  the  chao  or  decree,  the  ts'e  or 
edict,  the  chang  or  memorial  expressing  thanks,  and  the  tsou  or  gen- 
eral memorial.  Fu  or  narrative  poetry,  sung  or  sacrificial  poetry,  \e  or 
folk  song,  and  tsan  or  eulogy  have  their  foundations  in  the  Boo\  of 
Poetry.  Ming  or  inscription,  lei  or  elegy,  chen  or  admonition,  and  chu 
or  prayer  have  their  beginnings  in  the  Boo\  of  Rites.  And  chi  or 
chronicle,  chuan  or  biography,  meng  or  oath19  and  hsi  or  proclama- 
tion have  their  roots  in  the  Spring  and  Autumn.  All  these  Classics  have 
reached  great  heights  in  establishing  standards;  they  have  also  opened 
up  vast  new  vistas.  So  that  no  matter  how  writers  may  leap  and  bound, 
they  must  eventually  come  home  to  the  fold  of  the  Classics.  One  may 
pattern  his  writing  after  the  classical  forms  or  enrich  his  diction  by 
studying  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  [with  the  same  confidence  with  which] 
one  may  depend  on  a  mountain's  copper  ores  to  suffice  for  coinage,  or 
rely  on  sea  water  to  make  salt  when  boiled. 

If  one's  writings  were  based  on  the  Classics,  his  style  would  be 
especially  distinguished  by  one  of  the  following  characteristics:  deep 
feeling  untainted  by  artificiality,  unmixed  purity  of  form,  empirical 
truth  untarnished  by  falsehood,  moral  ideas  uninvolved  in  perversity, 
simple  style  free  from  verbosity,  and  literary  beauty  unmarred  by 
excesses.  Master  Yang  compared  [the  writing  of  the  Classics]  to  the 

Lei-chu,  38,  and  T'ai-p'ing  yii-lan,  608.  For  a  discussion  of  this  practice  of  borrowing 
from  other  authors  see  Chang  Hsiieh-ch'eng's   Wen-shih  t'ung-i,  "Shuo-lin." 
19  Reading  ming  as  meng  with  the  T'ang  hand-written  version. 


Emendation  of  Apocrypha  21 

carving  of  jade  into  vessels,  his  idea  being  that  literary  pattern   is 
innate  in  the  five  Classics.20 

A  man  wins  his  mastery  of  literature  through  the  excellence  of  his 
character,  and  his  character  is  manifested  in  his  literary  excellence. 
In  literature,  first  among  the  four  elements  of  instruction,21  both 
symbol  and  colorful  pattern  assist  each  other  to  teach.  No  one  who 
aims  at  the  improvement  of  his  moral  character  and  the  establishment 
of  his  name  fails  to  go  to  the  Sage  for  his  model;  but  when  one  develops 
an  interest  in  a  career  of  literature  and  rhetoric,  he  seldom  realizes 
that  he  too  should  take  the  Classics  as  his  starting  point.  The  poetry 
of  Ch'u  has  alluring  charm  and  the  poetic  prose  of  Han  is  extravagant; 
but  both  are  deviant  forks  which  never  return  to  the  main  stream. 
Would  it  not  be  a  good  thing  to  curb  the  tendency  to  deviate  by 
returning  to  the  source? 

The  Tsan: 
The  universal  principles  governing  the  Great  Trinity 
Are  embodied  in  profound  teachings  and  ancient  learning. 
To  achieve  transformation  in  order  to  return  to  the  One, 
These  teachings  are  divided  into  five. 

The  five  Classics  are  art  masters  moulding  human  nature  and  spirit, 
And  the  great  treasure  house  of  literature, 
Unfathomable  and  lustrous, 
The  Source  of  all  literary  forms. 


IV.  Emendation  of  Apocrypha 

The  Divine  Way  is  plain  and  yet  hidden;  the  Mandate  of  Heaven  is 
subtle  and  yet  manifest.1 

20  See  chapter  on  "Kua-chien"  in  his  Fa-yen. 

21  Lun-yu  yin-te,   13/7/25:  "The  master  taught  wen    [literature],  hsing    [character], 
chung  [loyalty],  and  hsin  [trustworthiness]." 

1  The  Divine  Way  and  the  Mandate  of  Heaven:  the  subject  matter  of  the  apocrypha. 
The  apocrypha  also  claim  to  explain  the  Classics. 


22  Emendation  of  Apocrypha 

Following  the  emergence  of  the  horse-dragon,  there  developed  the 
Boo\  of  Changes-,2  and  with  the  appearance  of  the  divine  tortoise,  the 
"Hung-fan"  saw  the  light  of  day.3  For  this  reason,  "Hsi-tz'u"  says: 
"From  the  Yellow  River  comes  the  diagram  and  from  the  River  Lo 
comes  the  Book,  and  these  the  Sage  followed  as  principles."4  However, 
it  has  been  so  long  ago,  and  records  are  so  obscure,  that  a  body  of 
strange  and  fantastic  literature  has  developed  around  these  Diagrams 
and  this  Book.  Although  some  truth  is  preserved  by  this  apocryphal 
literature,  its  existence  has  permitted  falsehood  to  creep  in. 

The  six  Classics  are  lucid  and  articulate,  but  the  apocrypha  [which 
have  been  attached  to  them]  are  disorganized  and  redundant;  the 
Boo\  of  Filial  Piety  and  the  Analects  are  distinct  and  clear,  but  their 
apocrypha  are  profuse  and  chaotic.  If  we  examine  the  apocrypha  in 
the  light  of  the  Classics,  we  shall  discover  four  proofs  that  their  claims 
to  authenticity  are  false.  First,  inasmuch  as  the  apocrypha  claim  to 
complement  the  Classics,  they  bear  to  the  Classics  the  same  relation- 
ship that  the  woof  bears  to  the  warp  in  weaving.  Now,  only  when 
the  silk  and  hemp  are  not  mixed  with  each  other  may  one  succeed  in 
making  either  hempen  cloth  or  silken  fabric.  But  the  Classics  are 
rational  while  the  apocrypha  are  incredible;  they  are  one  thousand  li 
apart.  So  this  claim  of  the  apocrypha  must  be  false.  Second,  the 
Classics,  the  teachings  of  the  Sage,  are  clear;  the  apocrypha,  supposedly 
divine  teachings,  are  obscure.  Now,  sages'  teachings  would  [ordinarily 
be  comparatively]  comprehensive,  divine  teachings  more  in  the  nature 
of  unifying  principles.  But  the  apocrypha  are  more  voluminous  than 
the  Classics,  and  the  so-called  divine  principles  are  even  more  compli- 
cated than  those  of  the  sages.  So  this  claim  of  the  apocrypha  must  be 
false.  Third,  a  real  mandate  from  heaven  is  accompanied  by  physical 
signs    and    miraculous    prophecies.    But    the    eighty-one    apocryphal 

2  A  dragon  in  the  form  of  a  horse  was  believed  to  have  brought  out  of  the  Yellow 
River  certain  diagrams  which  developed  into  the  eight  trigrams. 

3  The  divine  tortoise  is  believed  to  have  carried  the  Book  on  its  back  out  of  the 
River  Lo.  K'ung  An-kuo  of  the  Former  Han,  a  descendant  of  Confucius,  identified  this 
hook  as  the  "Chiu-ch'ou"  found  in  the  chapter  entitled  "Hung-fan"  in  the  Book,  of 
History  (Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  0063-0066). 

4  Chou-i  yin-te,  44/Hsi,  shang/n. 


Emendation  of  Apocrypha  23 

writings  are  all  attributed  to  Confucius,  Yao  was  made  the  creator  of 
the  "Green  Diagram,"  and  Ch'ang  [King  Wen  of  the  Chou],  was 
credited  with  the  "Red  Book."5  So  this  claim  of  the  apocrypha  must 
be  false.  Fourth,  and  last,  maps  and  diagrams  appeared  on  several 
occasions  before  the  Shang  and  Chou  dynasties,  but  the  Classics  were 
completed  only  at  the  end  of  the  Spring  and  Autumn  period.  For  the 
woof  to  come  before  the  warp  is  contrary  to  custom  in  weaving.  So 
this  claim  of  the  apocrypha  must  be  false.  When  the  false  beliefs  have 
been  isolated  and  rejected,  true  beliefs  differentiate  themselves  and 
become  established.  Since  the  Classics  are  adequate  as  teachings,  what 
contribution  do  the  apocrypha  make  to  them? 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  appearance  of  the  maps  and  diagrams  was 
the  manifestation  of  the  good  mandate  of  Heaven,  the  auspicious 
herald  of  a  sage;  they  are  not  meant  to  supplement  the  Classics.  This 
is  why,  when  the  Yellow  River  did  not  produce  maps  in  his  time, 
our  Master  heaved  a  sigh.  If  authentic  maps  could  have  been  fabricated, 
why  then  the  sigh?6  From  the  circumstance  that  long  ago  King  K'ang 
placed  the  River  Maps  in  the  Eastern  Apartment,7  we  know  that  these 
physical  symbols  of  prophecy  were  rare  treasures  handed  down  from 
one  dynasty  to  another.  Confucius'  contributions  to  them  were  merely 
their  prefaces.  But  later  devotees  of  esoteric  sciences  constructed 
strange  doctrines  about  the  physical  symbols.  Some  of  them  discoursed 
on  the  yin  and  yang,  while  others  invented  narratives  of  calamities  and 
supernatural  occurrences.  The  chirping  of  the  birds  was  deemed  to 
sound  like  human  speech  and  the  nibbling  of  worms  on  leaves  was 
construed  as  a  completed  sentence.8  These  writings,  voluminous  and 

5  Both  references  are  found  in  Ma  Kuo-han,  Yii-han  shan-jang  chi  i-shu. 

6  Lun-yii  yin-te,  16/9/9. 

7  Shang-shu  t'ting-chien,  42/0328-0332.  During  the  Hsia  dynasty,  the  "Tung-hsii," 
or  Eastern  Apartment,  was  the  academy  where  the  aged  were  cared  for. 

8  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chnan  yin-te,  330/Hsiang  30/3  Tso;  see  Tso-chttan,  under  the  30th 
year  of  Duke  Hsiang:  "Birds  chirped  on  the  temple  at  Po,  and  they  sounded  like  'Alas! 
Alas!'  On  the  day  of  chia-wu  the  state  of  Sung  had  a  great  calamity,  and  Po-chi  of 
Sung  died."  See  also  "Wu-hsing  chih"  in  the  Han-shu:  "During  the  reign  of  Emperor 
Chao  [86-74  B.C.]  a  big  willow  tree  in  the  Palace  of  Shang-yuan  broke  in  two  and  fell 
to  the  ground.  One  morning  it  stood  up.  Branches  and  leaves  grew  out.  Worms  nibbled 
its  leaves  to  form  the  sentence:  'Kung-sun  Pin-chi  will  be  made  emperor.'  "  Kung-sun 
Pin-chi   was  the  Emperor   Hsiian    (73-49   b.c.)    who  succeeded   Emperor  Chao. 


24  Emendation  of  Apocrypha 

disorderly  as  they  were,  were  all  attributed  to  Confucius.  Learned 
scholars,  after  much  discussion  and  research,  placed  the  date  of  their 
appearance  during  the  reigns  of  the  Emperors  Ai  [6-1  B.C.]  and  P'ing 
[A.D.  1-5]. 9  The  genuine  secret  treasures  [which  King  K'ang]  had 
stored  in  the  Eastern  Apartment  of  the  Palace,  were  then  mixed  with 
forgeries.  During  the  reign  of  Emperor  Kuang-wu  [A.D.  25-57]  tne 
emperor  placed  great  faith  in  these  apocryphal  writings,  a  precedent 
which  was  followed  by  many,  many  scholars,  competing  shoulder  to 
shoulder  with  one  another.  Prince  P'ei-hsien  [Fu]  collected  apocryphal 
writings  to  elucidate  the  Classics.10  Ts'ao  Pao  wrote  prophecies  in  setting 
the  Boo\  of  Rites  in  order.11  They  had  all  gone  far  indeed  in  their 
deviations  from  the  Tao  and  the  orthodox.  Huan  T'an  was  disgusted 
with  their  nonsense  and  falsehood,12  and  Yin  Ming  ridiculed  their 
superficiality  and  untruth;13  Chang  Heng  exposed  their  errors,14  and 
Hsun  Yueh  drew  attention  to  their  oddity  and  perversity.15  The  judg- 
ments of  these  four  worthies,  who  were  both  erudite  and  penetrating, 
are  indeed  fine  and  to  the  point. 

As  for  the  writings  on  Fu-Hsi,  Shen-nung,  the  Yellow  Emperor, 
and  Shao-hao;  or  on  the  nature  of  Shan,  Tu,  and  the  Chung-lii;16  or 
on  the  physical  symbols  of  the  white  fish  and  red  crow;17  or  on  the 
auspicious  omens  of  yellow  gold  and  purple  jade,18  they  record  a  great 
wealth  of  significant  achievements  in  language  both  rich  and  brilliant. 

9  Hsu  Yang-yuan  disputed  this  point,  maintaining  that  some  of  the  apocryphal  writings 
were  done  toward  the  end  of  the  Western  Han  dynasty,  but  maps  and  statements  of 
prognostication  existed  long  before  then.  Hsu's  essay  is  found  in  Yen  Chieh's  Ching-i 
ts'ung-ch'ao. 

10  Fan  Yeh,  Hou-han  shu  (Po-na  ed.),  42/6*. 

11  Ibid.,  biography  of  Ts'ao  Pao.  12  Ibid.,  biography  of  Huan  T'an. 

13  Ibid.,  biography  of  Yin  Ming.  Reading  with  the  T'ang  manuscript  shen-hsia  as 
jou-chia  to  harmonize  with  the  phrase  in  the  previous  line. 

14  Ibid.,  biography  of  Chang  Heng.  15  Hsiin  Yiieh,  Shen-chien,  "Su-hsien." 

16  It  is  not  possible  to  identify  Shan  and  Tu  with  certainty.  Shan  may  refer  to  Tun-chia 
k'ai-shan  t'u,  and  Tu  to  Ku-yiieh  tu-ching.  Chung-lii  is  a  work  on  natural  calamities 
recorded  in  the  "I-wen  chih"  of  the  Han-shu. 

17  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "Chou  pen-chi,"  relates  how  a  white  fish  jumped  into 
King  Wu's  boat  and  a  fire  descended  from  heaven  and  turned  into  a  red  crow,  all 
symbols  indicating  that  King  Wu  had  received  the  mandate  of  heaven. 

18  Omens  of  good  government,  recorded  in  Tou-wei-i,  apocryphal  interpretation  of 
the  Boo\  of  Rites. 


An  Analysis  of  Sao  25 

While  they  add  nothing  to  the  Classics,  they  are  a  great  help  to 
literary  composition.  Therefore  later  literary  men  picked  out  and 
treasured  the  best  elements  in  them.  P'ing-tzu  [or  Chang  Heng], 
greatly  concerned  lest  these  writings  should  mislead  scholars,  wrote  a 
memorial  urging  that  they  should  be  banned,  but  Chung-yii  [or  Hsiin 
Yueh],  because  they  also  contain  some  truth,  would  not  allow  them  to 
be  burned.  Since  in  all  previous  dynasties  apocryphal  writings  have 
been  treated  as  companions  to  the  Classics,  they  have  been  here  dis- 
cussed in  full. 

The  Tsan: 
The  mighty  River  and  the  mild  Lo 
Gave  birth  to  maps  and  apocrypha, 
Divine  treasures  to  be  stored  for  the  use  of  posterity. 
Although    their    principles    are    obscure,    their    literary    patterns    are 

valuable. 
During  the  two  Han  dynasties 

The  red  and  the  purple  were  one  boiling  mixture.19 
But  now,  having  deleted  their  odd  and  fantastic  features, 
We  preserve  only  what  is  well-carved  and  beautiful. 


V.  An  Analysts  of  Sao1 


After  the  feng  and  ya2  were  no  longer  written,  nothing  worthy 
emerged  to  continue  the  development.  Then  a  remarkable  literary 
achievement  arose  in  a  burst  of  splendor:  the  Li-sao,  soaring  high  in 

19  Red  is  a  primary,  hence  pure,  color,  and  purple  a  secondary  or  mixed  color.  In 
the  Analects,  Confucius  once  said,  "I  hate  the  manner  in  which  purple  takes  away  the 
luster  of  red."  Lun-yu  (Shih-san-ching  chu-shu  ed.),  chiian  17,  7b.  Since  then  red  and 
purple  have  been  interpreted  as  orthodox  or  refined  and  unorthodox  or  vulgar, 
respectively. 

1  Ch'ii  Yuan,  one  of  the  greatest  poets  of  China,  flourishing  in  the  fourth  century  B.C., 
was  from  the  state  of  Ch'u.  A  member  of  the  royal  clan,  he  was  at  first  a  trusted  minister 


26  An  Analysis  of  Sao 

the  wake  of  the  Ancient  Poets,3  and  in  the  van  of  the  writers  of  tz'u. 
Can  it  be  because  the  time  of  the  author  of  the  Li-sao  was  not  yet  long 
removed  from  the  age  of  the  Sage  and  Ch'u  writers  were  men  of 
great  talent? 

Long  ago  Emperor  Wu  [140-87  B.C.]  of  the  Han  loved  Sao,  and 
Prince  [An]  of  Huai-nan  [d.  122  B.C.]  wrote  an  exegesis  of  it.  To  the 
Prince,  while  the  Kuo-feng  expresses  passion  without  sensuality,  and 
the  Hsiao-ya  social  complaint  without  rebelliousness,  the  Li-sao  may 
be  said  to  contain  qualities  of  both.  For,  like  a  cicada,  it  molts  in  the 
midst  of  muck  and  filth  and  then  soars  aloft  beyond  the  dusty  world, 

of  the  King  of  Ch'u.  But  later  he  was  alienated  from  the  King  by  court  intrigues  and  was 
twice  exiled.  Finally  he  drowned  himself.  It  was  during  his  second  exile  that  he  wrote 
the  Li-sao,  or  Encountering  Sorrow.  Hence  the  term  sao  is  roughly  equivalent  to  the 
English  term  "lament."  Although  the  term  occurs  only  in  the  Li-sao,  it  has  often  been 
treated  by  later  scholars  as  a  genre,  applied  to  the  Ch'u-tz'u,  or  "Poetry  of  the  State  of 
Ch'u,"  as  a  whole.  This  chapter  discusses  the  merits  or  the  demerits  of  the  Li-sao  and 
Ch'u-tz'u  in  terms  of  their  relation  to  the  Classics,  quoting  and  evaluating,  in  the 
process,  the  literary  opinions  of  the  Han  scholars  on  them.  Liu  Hsieh  does  not  make 
clear  where  the  discussion  of  the  Li-sao  stops  and  where  that  of  the  Ch'u-tz'u  begins. 
At  one  moment  he  seems  to  be  concerned  with  the  Li-sao  and  in  the  next  breath  he  is 
found  to  be  speaking  about  the  Ch'u-tz'u  as  a  whole.  However,  I  try  to  mark  the  point 
where  Liu  Hsieh  shifts  from  the  Li-sao  to  the  Ch'u-tz'u  as  I  do  in  the  translation  on  the 
basis  of  the  content  he  quotes. 

2  There  are  four  versions  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  (also  translated  as  Boo\  of  Songs, 
Boo\  of  Odes)  of  which  only  the  Mao  version  has  come  down  to  us  intact.  It  is  so 
named  because  a  Han  scholar  by  the  name  of  Mao  Heng  wrote  a  philological  com- 
mentary on  the  Book,  and  this  commentary  was  taught  to  another  Han  scholar  whose 
name  was  Mao  Ch'ang.  The  former  is  known  as  the  Great  Mao,  the  latter  as  Lesser  Mao. 
The  Boo\  of  Poetry  is  composed  of  three  parts:  (i)  feng,  folksongs  and  lyrics  collected 
from  thirteen  different  localities;  (2)  ya,  containing  lyrics  of  a  more  polished  type,  and 
narratives;  (3)  sung,  ceremonial  and  sacrificial  songs,  which  accompanied  dances.  The 
term  feng  means  wind,  and,  figuratively,  is  taken  to  mean  either  the  gentle  influence 
of  lyrical  lamentation  and  complaints  or  the  gentle  way  in  which  one  remonstrates  with 
his  superior,  especially  the  ruler.  The  term  ya  means  graceful.  These  two,  together  with 
sung,  have  been  used  to  designate  the  style  of  a  literary  piece  which  has  the  quality 
of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 

Then  there  are  three  literary  elements  employed  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry:  (1)  fu,  narra- 
tive, (2)  pi,  metaphorical,  and  (3)  hsing,  allegorical.  These  three  elements  and  the 
previously  mentioned  three  types  of  feng,  ya,  and  sung  form  what  are  known  as  the 
"six  elements." 

Finally  we  often  come  across  the  phrase  "four  beginnings."  I  have  shown  how  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry  is  composed  of  three  parts:  feng,  ya,  and  sung.  As  the  ya  is  subdivided 
into  the  Hsiao-ya  (minor  ya)  and  Ta-ya  (major  ya),  the  book  is  considered  to  contain 
four  instead  of  three  parts,  that  is,  feng,  ta-ya,  hsiao-ya,  and  sung.  For  its  different 
interpretations,  see  note  4,  Chapter  III. 

3  In  most  cases,  Liu  Hsieh  uses  shih-jen,  the  Ancient  Poets,  to  refer  to  poets  who 
wrote  the  poems  contained  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 


An  Analysis  of  Sao  27 

its  brilliance  untarnished  by  its  passage  through  the  mud.  The  light 
it  sheds  may  be  compared  to  that  of  the  sun  and  the  moon. 

It  was  the  opinion  of  Pan  Ku  [A.D.  32-92]  that  Ch'ii  Yuan  was 
parading  his  talents  and  making  an  exhibition  of  himself  in  the  Li-sao, 
that  he  drowned  himself  in  the  river  out  of  resentment  and  bitterness, 
that  the  stories  of  I  and  Chiao  and  of  the  two  Yao  beauties4  do  not  tally 
with  those  given  in  the  Tso-ckuan,5  that  references  to  K'un-lun  and 
Hsiian-p'u6  are  not  found  in  the  Classics;  but  that  nevertheless  its 
language  is  beautiful  and  elegant,  setting  a  standard  for  all  tz'u  and  fu ; 
and  that  the  poet  [Ch'ii  Yuan],  though  not  a  man  of  comprehensive 
wisdom,  possessed  talent  of  exquisite  quality.7 

Wang  I  believed  that  the  Ancient  Poets  persuade  by  sheer  force8 
while  Ch'ii  Yuan  is  humble  and  unassuming,  and  that  the  ideas  in 
the  Li-sao  are  based  on  the  Classics :  for  example  the  driving  of  dragons 
in  fours  and  the  riding  of  phoenixes  are  based  on  "He  then  rides  on 
six  dragons  .  .  .  ,"9  [which  is  taken  from  the  Boo\  of  Changes]  and 
references  to  K'un-lun  and  Liu-sha  are  based  on  the  "Division  of  Land" 
in  the  "Yii-kung"  [in  the  Boo\  of  History].  There  is  no  one  among 
the  famed  scholars  who  did  not  take  the  Li-sao  as  a  model  for  his 
formal  literary  writings.  It  is  indeed  gold  in  appearance  and  jade  in 
substance,  a  work  which  has  no  peer  in  a  hundred  generations.10 

At  the  time  of  the  Han,  Emperor  Hsiian  [73-49  B.C.]  admired  its 
consistency  with  the  Classics,11  and  Yang  Hsiung  [53  B.C.-A.D.  18], 

4  Daughters  of  the  ruler  of  Yu-yii,  given  to  Shao-k'ang  as  wives  when  he  was  on  his 
flight. 

5  The  Tso-chuan,  one  of  the  three  commentaries  on  the  Annals  of  Spring  and  Autumn, 
a  history  of  the  state  of  Lu,  edited  by  Confucius.  This  commentary  was  supposedly 
written  by  a  contemporary  of  Confucius.  Its  authenticity  has  been  debated,  but  Bernard 
Karlgren  has  convincingly  demonstrated  it. 

6  K'un-lun,  a  mountain  range  situated  in  the  West  of  China.  Hsiian-p'u,  situated  in 
the  farthest  reach  of  the  K'un-lun  mountains. 

7  See  Pan  Ku's  "Preface  to  the  Li-sao." 

8  The  phrase  t'i-erh,  "lead  by  taking  hold  of  the  ear,"  is  from  the  Boo\  of  Poetry: 
see  the  Mao-shih  yin-te,  68/256/10.  It  is  a  figurative  expression  for  a  forceful  method 
of  remonstrating  with  a  ruler. 

9  Chou-i  yin-te,   1/1/t'uan,   "He  then  rides  on  six  dragons  toward   heaven." 

10  See  Wang  I's  "Preface"  to  Ch'u-tz'u  chang-chii. 

11  The  Han-shu,  biography  of  Wang  Pao. 


28  An  Analysis  of  Sao 

after  critical  and  appreciative  study,  maintained  that  its  style  is  the 
same  as  that  of  the  Odes.12  These  four  scholars  accepted  the  Li-sao  as 
consistent  with  the  Classics,  although  Pan  Ku  criticized  it  for  not 
agreeing  with  the  Tso-chuan.  But  both  in  commendation  and  in  censure 
all  have  been  quite  arbitrary,  and  both  their  blame  and  their  praise 
have  been  exaggerated.  In  their  judgments  they  may  be  said  to  be 
observant  but  not  discriminating;  they  have  been  appreciative  but 
uncritical. 

In  order  to  determine  the  truth  of  their  statements,  we  should  discuss 
concrete  examples  from  the  whole  Ch'u-tzu.  When  he  describes  the 
brilliance  and  greatness  of  Yao  and  Shun,13  or  speaks  of  the  reverence 
and  respect  shown  by  Yii  and  T'ang,14  [Ch'ii  Yuan]  is  adopting  the 
style  of  tien-\ao  [of  the  Boo\  of  History].15  When  he  condemns  the 
lack  of  discipline  of  Chieh  and  Chou,16  or  deplores  the  fall  of  I  and 
Chiao,17  he  is  adopting  the  formal  remonstration.18  When  he  uses 
dragons  as  a  metaphorical  expression  for  men  of  virtue,  and  clouds  and 
rainbows  as  metaphorical  expressions  for  sycophants,  he  is  adopting 
the  devices  of  metaphor  and  moral  allegory.19  When  he  wipes  the 
tears  which  flow  each  time  he  looks  at  [the  palace  of]  the  ruler,  which, 
to  his  grief,  is  closed  to  him  by  nine  gates,  he  is  adopting  the  formal 
expression  of  a  repining  loyal  subject.  Judged  by  its  performance  in 

12  Yang  Hsiung's  statement  is  unidentifiable. 

13  Yao  and  Shun,  legendary  sage-kings,  whose  reigns  are  known  as  T'ang  and  Yii 
respectively. 

14  This  is  according  to  the  T'ang  dynasty  manuscript,  but  it  should  be  T'ang  and 
Yii  according  to  the  Li-sao.  Yii  and  T'ang  were  also  ancient  sage-kings  whose  dynasties 
are  known  as  Hsia  and  Shang  respectively,  and  not  to  be  confused  with  T'ang  and  Yii, 
the  reign  titles  of  Yao  and  Shun  respectively. 

15  In  the  Boo\  of  History  certain  chapters  are  known  as  tien  and  a  few  others  as  \ao. 
Hence  the  phrase  tien-\ao  comes  to  stand  for  the  style  of  the  Boo\  of  History  as  a  whole. 

16  Chieh  was  the  last  ruler  of  the  Hsia,  and  Chou  was  the  last  ruler  of  the  Shang. 
They  are  considered  the  symbol  of  wickedness  just  as  Yao  and  Shun  are  considered 
symbols  of  virtue. 

17 1  usurped  Hsia,  only  to  be  usurped  in  turn  by  Chiao,  and  Chiao  was  destroyed 
when  Shao-k'ang  restored  the  Hsia  rule  in  2096  B.C. 

18  Remonstration  was  conceived  in  the  ancient  times  to  be  a  function  of  the  poems 
in  the  Book  of  Poetry.  Hence,  by  saying  that  Ch'ii  Yuan  is  adopting  the  idea  of  remon- 
stration, Liu  Hsieh  means  that  Ch'ii  is  adopting  the  style  of  the  Book  of  Poetry. 

19  Devices  traditionally  linked  with  the  Book,  of  Poetry. 


An  Analysis  of  Sao  29 

these  four  respects,20  the  Li-sao  is  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  feng 
and  ya.  But  the  references  to  riding  on  clouds  and  dragons  and  such 
narratives  of  the  strange  and  fantastic  as  the  sending  of  Feng-lung21  to 
seek  Fu-fei,  or  the  commissioning  of  the  venom-bearing  falcon  to  act 
as  go-between  to  obtain  the  hand  of  the  daughter  of  Sung  [Yu-sung] — 
all  these  are  matters  which  are  odd  and  strange.  K'ang-hui's22  causing 
heaven  to  collapse  on  the  earth,  the  shooting  down  of  the  [nine]  suns 
by  I,  the  nine-headed  uprooter  of  trees23  and  the  earthly  deity  with 
three  eyes24— all  these  are  tales  which  are  incredible  and  strange.  When 
Ch'ii  Yuan  expresses  his  desire  to  follow  the  example  of  P'eng  Hsien,25 
or  to  accept  contentedly  the  fate  of  [Wu]  Tzu-hsii,26  he  seems  cowardly 
and  small-minded.  His  pointing  with  great  pleasure  to  men  and 
women  sitting  together  all  mixed  up  without  distinction  and  his  con- 
sidering an  all-day  and  all-night  drinking  spree  as  the  height  of  enjoy- 
ment speak  of  licentiousness  and  excess.27  At  these  four  points  the 
Ch'u-tz'u  is  not  in  accord  with  the  Classics.  In  some  respects  it  possesses 
classic  elegance;  in  other  respects  it  is  exaggerated  and  fantastic.  We 
know,  indeed,  that  its  style  cannot  compare  with  that  of  the  literary 
works  of  the  Three  Dynasties,  and  yet  it  is  fuller  of  the  qualities  of 
feng  and  ya  than  that  of  the  literature  of  the  Warring  States  period. 
Though  a  ruffian  in  the  realm  of  ya  and  sung,29,  it  is  a  hero  in  the  land 
of  poetry.  When  we  examine  both  the  bone  structure  of  the  work  and 

20  Of  the  four  respects,  the  first  refers  to  the  style  of  the  Boo\  of  History,  and  the 
remaining  three  to  that  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  The  repining  loyal  subject,  of  which 
Ch'ii  Yuan  is  a  classic  example,  is  first  found  in  the  Book.  °f  Poetry.  He  is  conceived  to 
be  remonstrating  with  his  lord  by  means  of  metaphors  and  allegories.  Later  this  became 
a  conventional  type. 

21  Wang  I's  commentary  to  the  Li-sao  says:  "Feng-lung  is  the  god  of  clouds."  But  it 
is  often  thought  to  be  the  god  of  thunder. 

22  The  Ch'u-tz'u,  chiian  III,  "T'ien-wen."  K'ang-hui  is  another  name  for  Kung-kung. 

23  Found  in  "Chao-hun,"  by  Sung  Yii,  in  the  Ch'u-tz'u. 

24  Also  found  in  Sung  Yii's  "Chao-hun."  The  last  two  tales  cannot  be  attributed  to 
Ch'ii  Yuan. 

25  A  worthy  of  the  Yin  dynasty  who  drowned  himself  when  his  advice  was  not 
followed. 

26  Wu  Tzu-hsii,  who  cut  his  throat  when  he  was  not  listened  to  by  the  King  of  Wu. 
See  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  biography  of  Wu  Tzu-hsii. 

27  Both  references  are  to  Sung  Yii's  "Chao-hun." 

28  The  phrase  "ya  and  sung"  means  here  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  See  note  2,  on  the 
structure  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 


30  An  Analysis  of  Sao 

the  musculature  and  integument  which  that  structure  sustains,  we  see 
that,  although  the  work  adopts  the  basic  idea  of  the  Classics,  there  are 
yet  magnificent  literary  expressions  which  are  the  original  work  of 
the  authors  themselves.  Thus  the  Li-sao  and  Chiu-chang,  brilliant  and 
beautiful,  communicate  frustrated  desires;  the  Chiu-\o  and  Chiu-pien, 
delicate  and  lyrical,  express  grief;  the  Yiian-yu  and  T'ien-wen,  odd  and 
eccentric,  exhibit  great  artfulness;  and  the  Chao-hun  and  Ta-chao> 
gorgeous  and  dazzling,  are  imbued  with  profound  beauty.  The  Po-chii 
reveals  the  true  manner  of  one  in  exile;  and  the  Yti-fu  manifests  a 
talent  that  is  without  peer.  For  these  reasons,  their  spirit  is  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  the  ancients  and  their  language  meets  the  need  of  the 
present  day.  With  their  startling  grace  and  unique  beauty,  they  are 
indeed  incomparable.  From  the  Chiu-huai  downward,  all  the  poets  have 
followed  their  steps,  but,  hopelessly  outdistanced,  not  one  could  over- 
take Ch'ii  and  Sung.29  As  narratives  of  feelings  and  of  wrong,  Ch'ii 
Yuan's  and  Sung  Yii's  works  are  melancholy  and  moving;  in  recount- 
ing a  life  of  isolation  they  communicate  its  almost  unbearable  sorrow; 
mountains  and  streams  leap  before  our  eyes  when  we  listen  to  their 
melodic  descriptions,  and  seasonal  changes  form  part  of  our  experience 
as  we  read  their  literary  accounts  of  them.  Mei  [Sheng,  ?-i4i  B.C.] 
and  Chia  [I,  200-168  B.C.]  entered  the  realm  of  beauty  by  imitating 
their  style;  and  Ma  [Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju,  ?-ii7  B.C.]  and  Yang  [Hsiung, 
53  B.C.-A.D.  18]  attained  the  quality  of  the  wondrous30  by  developing 
their  forms.  Those  who  were  influenced  by  them  include  poets  of  more 
than  one  generation.  Great  talents  have  borrowed  their  main  ideas; 
the  clever,  their  elegant  language;  those  who  compose  poetry,  their 
descriptions  of  mountains  and  streams,  and  poetic  novices  such  moral 
metaphors  as  that  of  "fragrant  grass."31  If  one  is  able  to  lean  on  the 

29  Ch'ii  Yuan  and  Sung  Yii,  the  two  major  poets  of  Ch'u,  authors  of  the  works  cited 
here.  Traditionally,  the  Li-sao,  Chiu-chang,  Chiu-kp,  Yiian-yu,  Tien-wen,  Po-chii,  and 
Yti-fu  are  attributed  to  Ch'ii  Yuan,  and  Chiu-pien  and  Chao-hun  to  Sung  Yii.  The 
Ta-chao,  however,  is  sometimes  attributed  to  Ch'ii  Yuan  and  sometimes  to  Ching  Ch'a, 
another  famous  poet  of  the  State  of  Ch'u. 

30  "Wondrous"   is  one  of  several  rough  classifications  of   literary   quality. 

31  In  the  Ch'u-tz'u,  particularly  the  Li-sao,  fragrant  grasses  and  flowers  are  meta- 
phorically used  to  stand  for  good  moral  qualities,  and  hence  good  men. 


An  Exegesis  of  Poetry  31 

ya  and  the  sung  as  one  leans  on  the  cross  bar  of  a  carriage,  or  to  harness 
the  Ch'u-tz'u  poetry  as  one  harnesses  a  horse,  and  if  one  can  absorb 
their  wondrous  qualities  without  losing  sight  of  their  truths  and 
appreciate  their  flowers  without  neglecting  their  fruits,  then,  just  as 
effortlessly  as  he  glances,  he  will  be  able  fully  to  utilize  his  literary 
power,  and  just  as  spontaneously  as  he  coughs,  he  will  be  able  to  reach 
the  literary  heights.  He  will  have  no  need  to  go  to  Ch'ang-ch'ing  [or 
Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju]  for  inspiration  or  to  Tzu-yiian  [or  Wang  Pao, 
?-6i  B.C.]  for  benefits. 

The  Tsan : 
Without  Ch'ii  Yuan 
How  could  there  be  a  Lisao  ? 
His  startling  talent  sweeps  like  wind, 
And  his  vigorous  patterns  roll  like  clouds. 
The  mountains  and  streams  he  describes  have  no  horizons, 
And  the  emotions  and  ideas  he  expresses  are  those  of  one  who  has 

suffered  much. 
All  the  phases  and  forms  of  the  works  are  of  gold  and  jade, 
And  its  minutest  fragments  overflow  with  beauty. 


VI.  An  Exegesis  of  Poetry1 


Great  Shun2  said:  "Poetry  is  the  expression  of  sentiments,  and  songs 
are  these  expressions  set  to  music."3  Of  this  explanation,  given  by  the 
sage,  the  meaning  is  clear.  That  which  is  the  sentiment  within  the  mind 
becomes  poetry  when  expressed  in  words.4  It  is  here  indeed  that  literary 

1  The  purpose  of  this  chapter  is  to  give  the  origin,  function,  and  development  of 
poetry  from  its  earliest  traces  at  a  time  when  it  was  not  distinguished  from  music  to 
Liu  Hsieh's  own  time. 

2  See  note  13,  Chapter  V. 

3  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien   (Peking,  1936),  02/068-0686. 

4  Mao's  edition  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  (Shih-san-ching  chu-shu  ed.,  1 81 5) ,  5a. 


32  An  Exegesis  of  Poetry 

form  unfurls  itself  to  communicate  reality.5  Poetry  means  discipline,6 
disciplined  human  emotion.  The  single  idea  that  runs  through  the 
three  hundred  poems  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  is  freedom  from  undisci- 
plined thought.7  The  interpretation  of  poetry  as  disciplined  human 
emotions  is  in  thorough  agreement  with  this  observation. 

Man  is  endowed  with  seven  emotions.  When  stimulated  by  external 
objects,  these  emotions  rise  in  response.  In  responding  to  objects  one 
sings  to  express  his  sentiments.  All  this  is  perfectly  spontaneous.  In 
ages  past,  there  was  a  metrical  piece  of  Ke-t'ien-shih's  called  "Hsiian- 
niao,"  which  was  set  to  music;8  and  in  the  music  of  Huang-ti's  "Yiin- 
men"  there  is  not  one  note  which  is  empty  of  meaning.9  At  the  time 
of  Yao  the  song  of  "Ta-t'ang"  was  sung,  and  Shun  created  the  lyric 
called  "Nan-feng."10  Examination  of  these  two  poems,  however,  shows 
that  they  have  only  the  merit  of  communicating  ideas. 

When  Great  Yii  completed  his  work,  his  nine  regulated  achievements 

5  Scholars  usually  attribute  the  first  use  of  the  term  tsai  (to  convey)  to  Chou  Tun-i 
of  the  Sung,  and  the  idea  of  literary  form  as  a  vehicle  conveying  tao  (moral  principles) 
to  Han  Yii  of  the  T'ang,  whose  term  for  this  idea  is  hjuan  (to  string  together).  In  this 
chapter  we  see  that  Liu  Hsieh  was  the  first  one  either  to  use  the  term  tsai  or  to  advance 
the  idea  of  literary  form  as  being  in  itself  a  vehicle  for  ideas.  In  conceiving  the  function 
of  literary  form  to  be  \uan  or  tsai  (to  string  together  or  to  convey)  moral  principles, 
Han  Yii  and  Chou  Tun-i  are  thought  to  have  relegated  the  literary  form  to  a  secondary 
role  and  elevated  moral  principles  to  a  supreme  height.  This  idea  may  be  fully  justified 
in  the  case  of  Chou  Tun-i  and  the  Neo-Confucians  after  him;  it  is  less  applicable  to 
Han  Yii,  who  certainly  valued  literary  form  both  as  an  instrument  and  for  its  own  sake. 
But  it  is  totally  inapplicable  in  the  case  of  Liu  Hsieh,  for  whom  literary  form  and  moral 
principles  are  of  equal  importance. 

6  This  is  according  to  the  Han-shen-u/u,  an  apocryphal  work  purporting  to  explain 
the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 

7  Lun-yii  yin-te,  2I2J2. 

8  Ke-t'ien-shih  is  the  title  of  an  ancient  ruler.  See  the  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  "Shan- 
t'ung  chi":  "He  wins  confidence  while  not  uttering  a  single  word,  and  the  people 
follow  his  way  though  he  makes  no  efTort  to  transform  them.  Great  indeed  is  he,  and 
beyond  name."  The  "Hsuan-niao"  is  second  of  the  eight  musical  poetic  pieces  recorded 
in  the  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  "Ku-yiieh  p'ien"  in  "Chung-hsia  chi,"  chapter  on  the 
ancient  music.  See  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  t'ung-chien,  5/8b. 

9  "Yun-men"  is  a  musical  poem  commemorating  Emperor  Huang-ti's  achievements 
and  virtue.  See  Chou-li  yin-te,  6/ib,  "Ch'un-kuan,"  "Ta  ssu-yiieh,"  and  the  "Cheng-i"; 
the  commentary  to  Cheng  Hsuan's   (127-200)   "Preface  of  Shih-p'u." 

10  "Ta-t'ang"  was  written  by  Shun  in  praise  of  Yao's  determination  to  abdicate.  In  the 
"Yueh-chi"  in  the  Li-chi,  "Ta-chang"  is  mentioned  as  a  song  of  the  Yao  period.  For  the 
poem,  see  the  Shang-shu  ta-chuan,  attributed  to  Fu-Sheng  of  the  Han.  For  "Nan-feng," 
see  Li-chi  yin-te,  19/7. 


An  Exegesis  of  Poetry  33 

were  sung  in  songs;11  and  when  T'ai-k'ang  lapsed  from  virtue,  his 
five  brothers  complained  in  song.12  To  use  poetry  to  eulogize  good 
and  set  right  evil  behavior  is  a  practice  of  long  standing.  From  the 
Shang  to  the  Chou,  the  ya  and  the  sung  are  the  most  perfect  examples. 
The  four  beginnings13  are  dazzling  and  brilliant,  and  the  six  elements14 
are  exhaustive  and  profound.  Tzu-hsia  properly  comprehended  the 
verse  containing  the  line  "Be  white  in  order  to  be  beautiful";15  and 
Tzu-kung,  the  stanza  in  which  chiseling  and  polishing  are  mentioned.16 
For  this  reason  Shang  and  Tz'u  were  considered  by  Confucius  worthy 
to  discuss  poetry  with.17 

After  the  exhaustion  of  the  royal  grace  of  the  Chou  dynasty,  the 
collecting  of  poems  stopped.18  During  the  Spring  and  Autumn  period 
the  old  poetry  was  read  or  recited  by  men  who  wished  to  reveal  their 
ambitions;  it  was  pressed  into  service  to  glorify  diplomatic  guests  at 
state  functions,  and  to  quote  it  with  facility  was  sought  as  a  personal 
ornament.  In  the  state  of  Ch'u  poetry  was  characterized  by  satires 
and  laments,  and  the  Li-sao  may  be  considered  a  satirical  allegory. 
Although  the  first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in  burned  classical  writings,  he 
had  poems  about  the  immortals  written.19 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Han,  Wei  Meng,  following  the  example  of 

11  See  note  18,  Chapter  I. 

12  Wu-tzu,  "five  persons,"  usually  construed  to  mean  five  brothers  of  T'ai-k'ang, 
may  also  mean  Wu-tzu  or  Wu  Kuang,  the  youngest  son  of  Ch'i,  son  of  Yii  and  father 
of  T'ai-k'ang,  as  reported  in  the  Chu-shu  chi-nien.  If  this  rendering  is  correct,  Wu-tzu 
chih-\e  would  be  "The  song  of  Wu-kuang,  T'ai-k'ang's  youngest  brother."  But  there 
seems  little  doubt  that  Liu  Hsieh  took  the  phrase  to  mean  the  five  brothers  of  T'ai-k'ang. 

13  See  note  4,  Chapter  III. 

14  See  note  2,  Chapter  V. 

15  Lun-yii  yin-te,  4/3/8,  where  Tzu-hsia  and  Confucius  were  discussing  lines  from 
the  "Shih-jen"  in  the  Boof{  of  Poetry.  The  line  quoted  in  the  Analects  and  here  is  not 
contained  in  the  Mao  edition  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  See  Mao-shih  yin-te,  12/57/2. 

16  Lun-yii  yin-te,  2/1/15.  The  poem  discussed  is  found  in  Mao-shih  yin-te,  12/55/1. 
In  both  these  cases,  a  moralistic  interpretation  of  poetry  is  emphasized. 

17  Shang  is  another  name  of  Tzu-hsia  and  Tz'u  another  name  of  Tzu-kung.  See 
references  in  the  Analects  in  notes  15  and   16. 

18  Han-shu,  "I-wen  chih":  "In  ancient  times  there  was  an  office  in  charge  of  collecting 
lyrics  and  folksongs.  From  these  poems  the  ruler  learned  of  the  conditions  of  the  people. 
Such  knowledge  would  acquaint  him  of  the  success  and  failure  of  his  government  and 
would  serve  as  a  basis  for  improvement." 

19  This  happened  in  the  thirty-sixth  year  of  his  reign  (211  B.C.),  but  the  poems  are 
lost.  See  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "Ch'in-shih-huang  pen-chi." 


34  An  Exegesis  of  Poetry 

the  Chou  poets,  first  used  the  four-word-line  form  for  the  formal 
remonstration.  Emperor  Wu  [140-87  B.C.]  loved  literature  and,  in  the 
tower  of  Po-liang,  crossed  wits  with  his  ministers  to  produce  poetry.20 
And  there  were  Yen21  and  [Ssu-]ma  [Hsiang-ju]  and  the  like  who 
were  limited  by  nothing  in  their  poetic  creativity.  When  Emperor 
Ch'eng  [32-7  B.C.]  ordered  the  selection  and  collection  of  the  poetry 
of  the  time,22  more  than  three  hundred  poems,  including  almost  all 
the  literary  pieces  of  the  day,  were  collected.  In  all  these  literary 
remains  we  find  no  trace  of  five-word-line  poetry.  Therefore  scholars 
of  later  times  cast  doubt  on  the  authenticity  of  [the  poems  attributed 
to]  Li  Ling23  and  Pan,  a  woman  palace-official,  during  the  time  of 
Emperor  Ch'eng. 

In  the  "Hsing-lu"  in  the  "Shao-nan"24  we  find  half  the  lines  [in  the 
second  and  third  stanzas]  to  be  of  the  five-word  type,25  and  the  entire 
"boy's  song,"  "Ts'ang-lang,"  is  of  five-word  lines.26  "Hsia-yii,"27  a 
song  of  a  court  jester,  appeared  long  ago  during  the  time  of  the 
Ch'un-ch'iu  period;28  and  the  folk  song  "Hsieh-ching"  was  current  in 
recent  times.29  So  when  we  investigate  the  periods  and  look  for  evi- 
dence, it  is  clear  that  the  five-word-line  pattern  has  long  been  in 
existence.  As  for  the  "Ancient  Poems,"30  they  are  fine  and  beautiful. 

20  This  reportedly  happened  in  the  year  108  B.C.  The  poetry  may  be  described  as 
"round  robin"  poetry.  The  emperor  led  off  with  a  line,  to  be  followed  by  his  ministers 
one  after  another,  each  giving  a  line  with  the  same  rhyme  or  rhymes.  Ku  Yen-wu  of 
the  Ch'ing  dynasty  considered  these  lines  to  be  later  forgeries,  because  the  titles  affixed 
to  many  of  the  ministers  who  took  part  were  created  in  later  times.  See  his  ]ih-chih  lu, 
chiian  21. 

21  Yen  Chi,  flourishing  in  the  second  century  B.C. 

22  See  the  "Main  Preface"  of  the  "I-wen  chih"  in  the  Han-shu. 

23  Five-word  line  poems  have  been  attributed  to  Li  Ling  and  his  friend  Su  Wu. 
Liu  Hsieh  seems  to  be  the  first  one  to  question  their  authenticity.  Later  Su  Shih  (1036- 
1101)  made  the  same  point. 

24  "Shao-nan"  is  one  of  the  fifteen  sections  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  containing  poems 
collected  from  among  the  states,  and  "Hsing-lu"  is  a  poem  under  this  section;  its  number 
is  17. 

25  Mao-shih  yin-te,  1/17/2,  3. 

26  Mancius,  27/4A/9.  Also  found  in  the  "Yii-fu"  in  the  Ch'u-tz'u. 

27  The  first  two  characters  of  a  five-word-line  poem  used  as  a  title. 

28  Kito-yu,  "Chin-yii." 

29  Hsieh-ching  are  the  first  two  characters  of  the  folk  song.  It  was  current  during  the 
time  of  Emperor  Ch'eng.  See  the  "Wu-hsing  chih"  in  the  Han-shu. 

30  The  term  "Ancient  Poems"  refers  particularly  to  the  group  of  nineteen  five-word- 


An  Exegesis  of  Poetry  35 

Some  attributed  them  to  Mei  Shu  of  the  Western  Han,31  except  for 
the  poem  on  "Ku-chu,"  which  was  believed  to  be  from  the  pen  of 
Fu  I.32  But  if  we  compare  their  literary  style,  they  seem  to  be  the 
productions  of  the  Two  Han.  Their  composition  and  rhetoric  are 
unadorned  and  yet  not  crude.  Realistic  in  describing  objective  scenes 
and  deeply  moving  in  depicting  inner  emotions,  they  are  indeed  the 
crown  of  the  five-word-line  poetry. 

The  "Yiian-pien"  or  Lament  of  Chang  Heng,33  pure  and  elegant, 
is  absorbing  in  interest;  and  those  poems  about  the  immortals,  or  those 
of  a  slow  rhythm,34  are  graceful  in  the  freshness  of  their  sound-patterns. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Chien-an  reign  [A.D.  196-220]  the  five-word- 
line  pattern  developed  by  leaps  and  bounds.  Emperor  Wen35  and 
Ch'en  Ssu36  galloped  ahead  with  a  free  rein,  while  Wang,  Hsu,  Ying, 
and  Liu,  with  eyes  fixed  on  the  road,  raced  along  in  competition.37 
Their  common  themes  are  love  for  the  wind  and  the  moon,  excursions 
to  gardens  and  parks,  royal  grace  and  favors,  drunken  revelry  and 
feasts.  Heroic  in  giving  free  play  to  their  vitality,  open  and  artless  in 
the  application  of  their  talents,  never  resorting  to  petty  cleverness  in 
the  expression  of  their  feelings  or  in  their  descriptions  of  what  they 
saw,  and  in  harnessing  language  for  their  descriptions,  aiming  simply 
at  lucidity — in  all  these  ways  they  manifest  the  same  spirit. 

During  the  reign  of  Cheng-shih   [240-248]   of  the  Wei,  the  trend 


line  poems,  collectively  known  as  "Ku-shih  shih-chiu  shou"   (Nineteen  ancient  poems), 
of  which  the  authorship  and  date  have  been  matters  of  conjecture  and  debate. 

31  Mei  Sheng  (?-i4i  B.C.). 

32  "Ku-chu"  means  a  lone  bamboo,  symbolic  of  a  betrothed  woman  pining  for  her 
lover  to  come  to  take  her  as  his  bride.  Fu  I  flourished  during  the  reigns  of  Emperor 
Ming   (A.D.   58-75)    and   Emperor  Chang    (A.D.   76-88)    of  the  Later   Han. 

33  A  four-word-line  poem  entitled  "Autumn  Aster"  by  Chang  Heng  is  quoted  in  the 
Yii-lan  as  a  poem  in  his  lament  group.  See  T'ai-p'ing  yii-lan,  chuan  893. 

34  These  poems  are  not  identifiable. 

35  Ts'ao  P'ei,    187-226,   who   usurped   the   throne  and  created   the  Wei   dynasty. 

36  Ts'ao  Chih,  Ts'ao   P'ei's   brother,    192-232. 

37  Wang  Ts'an  (177-217),  Hsu  Kan  (171-218),  Ying  Yang  (?-2i7),  and  Liu  Chen 
(?-2i7)  are  four  of  the  seven  poets  known  as  "The  seven  masters  of  the  Chien-an 
period."  The  remaining  three  are:  K'ung  Yung  (153-208),  Ch'en  Lin  (?-2i7),  and 
Yuan  Yii  (?-2i2).  They  are  also  known  as  Seven  Masters  in  Yeh,  the  place  where  they 
all  resided,  and  are  so  grouped  in  Emperor  Wen's  literary  critical  essay,  Tien-Inn  Inn-wen. 
All  of  them  used  the  five-word-line  poem  as  their  main  literary  form. 


36  An  Exegesis  of  Poetry 

was  to  explain  tao,38  and  poetry  of  this  period  contains  elements  of  the 
cult  of  immortality.  Ho  Yen  [  P-249]  and  his  like  are  in  general  super- 
ficial and  shallow.  Only  Hsi  [K'ang,  223-262],  whose  works  are  charac- 
terized by  pure  and  lofty  emotions,  and  Yuan  [Chi,  210-263],  whose 
ideas  are  far-reaching  and  profound,  achieved  outstanding  stature.  As 
to  the  "Po-i"39  by  Ying  Chu  [190-252],  that  independent  and  coura- 
geous man,  its  language  is  odd  but  the  ideas  are  true.  It  retains  the 
spirit  of  the  Wei. 

In  the  Chin  dynasty  [266-316]  the  taste  of  most  men  of  talent  leaned 
toward  the  trivial  and  ornate.  Chang,40  P'an,41  Tso  [Ssu]  and  Lu42 
walked  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  the  lane  of  poetry.  Their  language  is 
more  ornate  than  that  of  the  Cheng-shih  period,  but  they  did  not  have 
the  vigor  of  the  Chien-an  masters.  Some  of  them  delighted  in  a 
fastidious  use  of  literary  phrases,  while  others  sought  to  embroider 
[their  literary  reputations  with]  the  conventional  and  trivial.  These 
were  the  general  trends  of  the  time. 

During  the  period  of  the  Chiang-tso   [317-420] 43  literary  writings 

38  This  is  the  tao  of  the  religious  sect,  to  be  distinguished  from  philosophical  Taoism; 
although  it  was  still  discussed  under  the  names  of  Lao  and  Chuang.  Lao  refers  to 
Laotzu,  believed  to  have  lived  during  the  sixth  century  B.C.  Before  he  retired,  he  left 
behind  a  short  work  of  about  5,000  words,  expounding  a  mystical  principle  which  is 
called  tao.  About  two  hundred  years  later,  Chuangtzu  continued  the  tao  philosophy, 
a  kind  of  naturalism  with  emphasis  on  absolute  individual  spontaneity  and  freedom. 
Because  tao  was  considered  a  metaphysical  principle,  the  discussion  on  Lao  and  Chuang, 
particularly  during  the  Wei  and  Chin  dynasties,  is  known  as  metaphysical  talk.  During  the 
Ch'in  dynasty  there  arose  a  belief  in  the  physical  immortality  of  man.  One  of  the 
incentives  that  urged  the  First  Emperor  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty  to  roam  all  over  China 
was  to  seek  the  elixer  of  life  by  exploring  famous  mountains  in  the  hope  of  meeting 
with  the  immortals.  The  Taoists  of  the  Han  and  Later  Han  periods  practiced  alchemy 
in  an  effort  to  produce  the  elixer. 

89  Poems  so  called  because  they  express  the  idea  that  in  po-lii  or  "one  hundred  ideas" 
there  may  be  i-shih,  or  "one  miss";  this  is  the  origin  of  the  form  known  as  "Po-i,"  or 
"One  hundred-one." 

40  There  were  three  Chang  brothers:  Tsai,  Hsieh,  and  K'ang,  all  flourishing  in  the 
fourth  century.  See  the  Chin-shu,  chiian  55,  the  biography  of  Chang  K'ang.  Another 
theory  groups  Chang  Hua  (232-300)  with  Chang  Tsai  and  his  brother  Hsieh  to  form 
"Three  Chang." 

41  There  were  two  P'an:  Yiieh  (?-30o)  and  his  nephew  Ni. 

42  The  two  Lu  brothers  were  Chi  (261-303)  and  Yiin  (262-303). 

43  Referring  to  the  time  when  the  Chin  moved  south  under  the  pressure  of  the  northern 
barbarian  tribes,  to  establish  the  Eastern  Chin. 


An  Exegesis  of  Poetry  37 

were  burdened  with  metaphysical  discussions.44  Writers  ridiculed  the 
desire  for  worldly  attainments  and  indulged  in  talks  on  complete 
spontaneity,  or  total  obliviousness  to  mental  machination  and  schemes. 
Although  Yuan  and  Sun45  and  those  who  followed  them  had  each  his 
own  particular  way  of  carving  and  coloring  his  literary  patterns,  still, 
with  respect  to  intense  rhetorical  interest,  none  was  in  the  same  class 
[with  those  who  wrote  prior  to  the  Chiang-tso  period].  For  example, 
the  poems  by  Ching-yang  [or  Kuo  P'u,  276-324]  on  the  immortals  are 
distinguished  and  truly  great. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Sung  [420-479]  some  development  in  the 
literary  trend  was  evident.  Chuang  and  Lao  had  receded  into  the 
background  and  the  theme  of  mountains  and  streams  then  began  to 
flourish.  Writers  vied  in  weaving  couplets  which  might  extend  to 
hundreds  of  words,  or  in  attempting  to  achieve  the  wondrous46  by 
a  single  line.  In  expressing  feelings,  they  always  made  them  in  complete 
harmony  with  the  things  they  described;  and  in  literary  phraseology 
they  tried  their  best  to  achieve  freshness.  These  are  the  fields  in  which 
recent  writers  have  been  competing. 

As  we  trace  literary  development  through  successive  periods,  we 
can  detect  a  developing  trend  in  literary  sentiments.  And  as  we  single 
out  which  features  are  common  to  and  which  are  unique  in  various 
periods,  the  main  outline  of  the  trend  will  become  clear.  In  the  four- 
word-line  poetry,  which  is  the  orthodox  form,  grace  and  brilliance  are 
the  fundamental  qualities;  while  in  the  five-word-line  verse,  which  is 
a  derived  pattern,  the  important  elements  are  purity  and  beauty. 
Flowers  [the  ornate  or  romantic  elements]  and  fruits  [the  factual  or 
realistic  elements]  are  employed  differently  in  accordance  with  indi- 
vidual talents.  Thus  P'ing-tzu  [or  Chang  Heng,  78-135]  achieved 
the  grace  of  the  ideal  poetry,  Shu-yeh  [or  Hsi  K'ang,  223-262]  its 
brilliance,  Mao-hsien  [or  Chang  Hua,  232-300]  approached  its  purity, 
and  Ching-yang  [or  Chang  Hsieh]  developed  its  beauty.  Tzu-chien 

44  Discussions  on  Taoist  conceptions  found  in  the  Laotzu,  the  Chuangtzu,  and  the 
Boo1{  of  Changes. 

45  Yuan  Hung  and  Sun  Ch'o,  both  flourishing  in  the  fourth  century. 

46  See  note  30,  Chapter  V. 


38  An  Exegesis  of  Poetry 

[or  Ts'ao  Chih,  192-232]  and  Chung-hsuan  [or  Wang  Ts'an,  77-217] 
combined  in  their  works  all  these  good  qualities;  while  T'ai-ch'ung 
[or  Tso  Ssu]  and  Kung  Kan  [or  Liu  Chen,  ?-2i7]  each  captured  a 
particular  aspect  of  its  beauty. 

Although  the  form  of  poetry  has  a  universal  norm,  the  workings  of 
poets'  minds  are  never  stereotyped.  Each  writes  according  to  his  own 
nature  and  gifts,  and  few  are  able  to  encompass  all  the  good  qualities. 
If  a  poet  has  a  shrewd  understanding  of  the  difficult,  he  will  find  his 
course  easy;  but  if  he  carelessly  attempts  to  treat  everything  as  easy, 
the  difficult  will  certainly  remain  there  in  store  for  him. 

As  for  the  mixed  form  containing  three-  and  six-word  lines,  it  has 
its  origin  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  And  the  writing  of  the  "Li-ho"47  has 
its  beginning  in  the  apocryphal  writings.  The  "Hui-wen"48  began  with 
Tao  Yuan;49  and  "round-robin"  poetry  is  modeled  after  the  lines 
produced  in  the  Tower  of  Po-liang.  Some  of  these  forms  are  great  and 
others  are  petty,  but  they  all  aim  at  expressing  emotions  and  ideas. 
Hence  we  include  them  all  in  the  realm  of  poetry.  But  we  shall  not 
attempt  to  deal  with  all  of  them  in  detail. 

The  Tsan: 
People  are  born  with  feelings, 
With  instincts  to  hum  and  sing. 

The  stream  of  poetry  took  its  rise  during  the  time  of  ancient  emperors, 
And  forks  of  it  appear  in  the  two  "Nan."50 
Poetry  is  in  harmony  with  both  the  spirit  and  the  reason, 
And  develops  in  accord  with  historical  circumstances. 
Glorious  and  rich, 
It  is  a  splendid  spectacle  for  all  time. 

47  Li  means  to  take  apart  and  ho,  to  combine.  In  this  form  of  poetry,  some  lines 
take  characters  apart  and  others  combine  these  parts  to  form  new  characters.  Hence  the 
name  "To  separate  and  to  combine."  Here,  poetic  qualities  are  almost  nonexistent,  and 
the  reader  is  confronted  with  a  set  of  riddles. 

48  Another  literary  game  of  composing  poetic  lines  which  can  be  read  from  right 
to  left  or  from  left  to  right,  and  from  up  downward  or  from  down  upward. 

49  Not  identifiable. 

50  See  note  24  for  "Shao-nan." 


VII.  Musical  Poetry  (Yueh-fu)1 


The  Yueh-fu  may  be  described  as  tones2  prolonged  according  to  rules 
of  prosody  and  intervals3  chosen  according  to  rules  of  harmony.4  The 
nine  songs  in  the  central  heaven5  are  those  of  God,  and  the  eight  tunes 
of  Ke-t'ien6  belong  to  the  times  of  ancient  emperors.  From  the 
"Hsien"7  and  "Ying"8  downward  there  is  little  evidence  to  discuss. 
The  "Hou-jen"  song  of  T'u-shan9  marked  the  beginning  of  the  music 
of  the  south.  The  folk  song  "Fei-yen"  of  Yu-sung10  was  the  beginning 
of  the  music  of  the  north.  With  the  sighing  of  [K'ung-]chia  of  the 
Hsia  dynasty  at  Tung-yang,  the  music  of  the  east  began.11  And  Yin 
Cheng's  nostalgia  for  his  old  city  when  he  moved  to  the  West  River 

1  Originally  a  government  bureau  established  at  the  time  of  Emperor  Wu  (140- 
87  B.C.)  of  the  Han  dynasty  to  collect,  write,  and  compose  songs,  probably  for  ritual 
purposes.  The  term  Yueh-fu  then  was  used  to  stand  for  the  songs  collected  or  written 
by  members  of  the  bureau.  In  this  chapter  the  musical  aspect  is  emphasized,  although 
it  is  quite  plain  that  this  aspect  cannot  be  completely  divorced  from  poetry  itself. 

2  There  are  five  tones:  Kung  (C),  Shang  (D),  Chiao  (E),  Chih  (G),  and  Yu  (A), 
a  whole  tone  scale. 

3  Twelve  pitch  pipes,  producing  a  chromatic  scale  from  C  to  A. 

4  This  is  a  quotation  from  "Shun-tien"  in  the  Boo\  of  History.  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien, 
02/0687-0692. 

5  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "Chao  shih-chia":  Chao  Chien-tzu  reported  his  dream  in 
which  he  went  to  the  central  heaven  where  he  heard  nine  songs. 

6  See  note  8,  Chapter  VI,  where  we  have  Ke-t'ien-shih. 

7  The  music  of  Yao  called  "Hsien-ch'ih."  See  the  Pai-hu-t'ung,  "Ti-wang  li-yiieh." 

8  The  music  of  Emperor  Kao,  called  "Wu-ying"  according  to  the  Pai-hu-t'ung  and 
"Liu-ying"  according  to  an  apocryphal  work  on  the  Classic  of  music,  quoted  in  a  com- 
mentary on  "Yiieh-chi"  in  the  Li-chi. 

9  "Hou-jen"  are  the  first  two  words  of  a  song  by  a  girl  who  waited  for  Yu  of  the 
Hsia  dynasty  on  behalf  of  her  mistress,  the  daughter  of  T'u-shan-shih.  Literally,  "hou- 
jen"  means  one  who  waits. 

10  There  were  two  beautiful  girls  in  the  tribe  of  Yu-sung  who  were  trying  to  catch 
a  flying  swallow  sent  to  see  them  by  God.  When  the  swallow  left  and  flew  to  the  north 
never  to  return,  they  made  a  song,  which  ends  in:  "Swallow!  Swallow!  It  flew  away!" 
The  phrase  "fei-yen"  means  a  flying  swallow. 

11  K'ung-chia  of  the  Hsia  dynasty  hunted  at  Tung-yang.  A  great  gust  of  wind  blinded 
him  and  he  groped  his  way  into  a  peasant's  house.  It  happened  that  the  peasant's  wife 
was  feeding  her  baby  boy.  Some  people  took  this  coming  of  the  Hsia  ruler  as  a  good 
omen  for  the  boy's  future,  while  others  thought  it  was  a  misfortune.  K'ung-chia  took 
the  boy  with  him,  saying  that  nothing  would  happen  to  the  boy,  now  that  he  was  a  son 
of  the  ruler.  When  the  boy  grew  up  his  feet  were  injured  when  a  tent  with  a  broken 
beam  fell  on  them,  and  he  was  obliged  to  become  a  gate  keeper.  K'ung-chia  sighed: 
"Alas!  What  a  misfortune!  Isn't  that  fate!" 


40  Musical  Poetry 

initiated  the  music  of  the  west.12  There  is  no  general  rule  for  the 
development  of  musical  patterns.  Ordinary  men  and  women  express 
their  feelings  in  local  folk  songs;  these  songs  were  gathered  by  official 
poetry  collectors  and  set  to  music  by  blind  music  masters.13  These 
feelings  set  silk  strings  and  bamboo  reeds  vibrating  while  the  living 
spirit  informed  the  brasses  and  stone  bells.  Because  of  this  bond 
between  music  and  meaning  Master  K'uang  could  predict  success  and 
failure  by  testing  the  wind;14  and  Chi-cha  could  detect  symptoms 
of  a  state's  rise  and  fall  in  musical  subtleties  which  he  recognized.15 
How  keen  their  perception  was! 

Music  is  organically  related  to  one's  moral  nature.  Its  influence 
penetrates  one's  very  fibres  and  marrow.  Therefore,  our  early  kings 
took  great  pains  to  check  excesses  in  this  realm.  The  education  of 
noble  sons  included  a  requirement  that  they  practice  the  singing  of 
the  nine  virtues.16  Therefore  they  were  able  to  respond  emotionally 
to  the  seven  beginnings,17  and  their  moral  influence  was  capable  of 
changing  the  "eight  winds"  [the  empire]. 

After  the  decline  of  the  ya  [or  orthodox]  music,  sounds  that  drowned 
one's  soul  prevailed.  During  the  Ch'in  musical  classics  were  burned; 

12  Yin  Cheng  is  another  name  for  Ho-t'an-chia  of  the  Shang  (1542-1533  B.C.)-  As 
a  reference  for  notes  9,  10,  11,  and  12,  see  Lti-shih  Ch'un-ch'iu,  "Chi-hsia  chi,"  "Yin- 
ch'u  pien." 

13  For  the  practice  of  poetry  collecting,  see  the  Kung-yang  chuan,  commentary  by 
Ho  Hsiu  of  the  later  Han.  Somewhat  different  versions  are  given  in  the  Han-shu, 
"Shih-huo  chih,"  in  a  letter  from  Liu  Hsin  to  Yang  Hsiung,  quoted  in  the  Fang-yen. 

14  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  288/Hsiang  18/6  Tso. 

Chin  people  heard  that  Ch'u  was  about  to  attack  Chin.  Master  K'uang,  a  court  musician 
in  Chin,  played  the  songs  of  eight  winds  (winds  from  eight  directions).  He  noted  that 
the  south  wind  lacked  vigor.  He  predicted  that  Ch'u,  a  state  in  the  south,  would  never 
succeed. 

15  Chi-cha,  a  prince  from  the  state  of  Wu,  came  to  the  state  of  Lu  and  listened  to  the 
music  of  different  dynasties  and  states.  He  was  able,  through  listening  to  the  music,  to 
pass  judgments  on  the  quality  of  government  of  these  various  dynasties  or  states.  See 
Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  326-327/Hsiang  29/8  Tso. 

16  For  the  enumeration  of  the  nine  virtues,  see  "The  Kao-yu  mo"  in  the  Book,  of 
History,  16a.  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  04/0139-0165.  They  are  described  as:  "tolerant  and 
yet  dignified,  gentle  and  yet  independent,  frank  and  yet  polite,  in  control  and  yet 
respectful,  yielding  and  yet  effective,  straightforward  and  yet  mild,  simple  and  pure, 
decisive  and  practical,  and  strong  and  acting  according  to  principles." 

17  The  beginnings  of  heaven,  earth,  man,  and  the  four  seasons.  These  beginnings  find 
expression  in  the  following  respective  notes:  C,  D,  E,  Vff,  G,  A,  and  B. 


Musical  Poetry  41 

however,  at  the  beginning  of  the  Han  some  were  recovered.  Chih 
[a  Han  musician]  recorded  the  musical  notes,  and  Shu-sun  [T'ung] 
fixed  the  modes.  Kao-tsu  [the  first  emperor  of  the  Han,  206-195  B.C.] 
created  the  "Wu-te  wu"  [a  martial  dance],  and  Emperor  Wen  [179- 
157  B.C.]  initiated  the  Ssu-shih,"  [or  "Four  Seasons"  dance].18  Though 
these  were  made  in  the  spirit  of  the  "Shao-hsia,"19  they  also  adopted 
some  of  the  Ch'in  patterns.  But  that  melodious  music  is  silent  now, 
never  to  return.  At  the  time  of  Emperor  Wu  [140-87  B.C.],  who 
emphasized  rituals,  the  Yiieh-fu  was  first  established.  Through  that 
office  songs  of  Chao  and  Tai  were  collected,  and  the  melodies  of  Ch'i 
and  Ch'u  were  preserved.  [Li]Yen-nien  composed  flowing  tunes,  and 
Chu  [Mai-ch'en]  and  [Ssu]-ma  [Hsiang-ju]  wrote  songs  in  the  style 
of  the  Sao.  The  "Kuei-hua"  is  a  mixed  tune;  it  is  beautiful  but  not 
classical;  and  the  "Ch'ih-yen"  and  other  pieces  are  high-flown  but 
not  really  elegant.20  The  music  introduced  by  Prince  Hsien  of  Ho-chien 
is  graceful  but  seldom  employed.  It  was  apropos  of  the  group  just 
mentioned  that  Hsi  An  remonstrated  against  the  writing  of  [compara- 
tive trivia,  or,  as  he  put  it,]  "songs  in  honor  of  the  heavenly  horse."21 
When  Emperor  Hsiian  [73-49  B.C.]  came  upon  the  scene,  he  went 
back  to  the  ya  and  the  sung,  and  in  poetry  he  tried  to  imitate  the 
spirit  of  the  "Lu-ming."22  But  by  the  time  of  the  periods  of  Emperor 
Yuan  [48-33  B.C.]  and  Emperor  Ch'eng  [32-7  B.C.],  vulgar  music 
had  gradually  spread.  Orthodox  music  runs  against  the  current  of 
popular  taste,  and  it  is  very  difficult  to  maintain  it.  Later  ritual  anthems 
contain  some  graceful  elements  but,  although  their  language  may  be 
elegant,  their  music  no  longer  has  the  quality  of  the  ancient  music- 
masters  K'uei  or  K'uang. 
The  three  rulers  of  the  Wei,23  quick-witted  and  richly  endowed, 

18  See  the  Han-shu,  "Li-yueh  chih."  "Wu-te  wu"  symbolized  the  happiness  the  world 
experienced  when  Kao-tzu  brought  peace  to  the  chaotic  world  by  means  of  his  military 
campaigns;  and  "Ssu-shih  wu"  showed  that  the  world  was  enjoying  peace  and 
prosperity. 

19  Name  of  an  ancient  musical  piece.  See  Choti-li  yin-te,  6/ 6a. 

20  These  songs  are  given  in  the  Han-shu,  "Li-yueh  chih." 

21  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "Yiieh-shu."  22  No.  161  in  the  Boo/{  of  Poetry. 

23  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  155-220,  Ts'ao  P'ei,  187-226,  and  Ts'ao  Jui,  who  ruled  from  227  to  239. 


42  Musical  Poetry 

often  cut  up  both  words  and  tunes  to  form  trivial  lyrics  and  common 
rhythms.  As  for  their  "Pei-shang"  and  "Ch'iu-feng"  and  so  on,24  the 
themes  are  either  carousal  or  complaints  against  military  campaigns; 
their  minds  are  always  preoccupied  with  inordinate  pleasures,  and 
their  language  expressive  of  mournful  thoughts.  Although  their  work 
is  consistent  with  the  three  tunes  of  the  Han,  it  is  corrupt  when  com- 
pared with  the  "Shao-hsia."25 

In  the  Chin  dynasty  there  appeared  Fu  Hsiian  with  a  profound 
understanding  of  music.  He  gave  grace  to  the  ritual  songs  he  created, 
to  be  used  in  the  ceremonies  of  ancestral  worship.  And  Chang  Hua's 
new  compositions  were  also  used  in  court  dances.  Tu  K'uei,  by  retun- 
ing  the  pitch  pipes,  imparted  ease  and  grace  to  the  music  of  the  time, 
while  Hsun  Hsu  altered  the  measurement  of  the  standard  pitch,  as  a 
result  of  which  the  traditional  tone  and  rhythm  were  made,  respectively, 
more  sad  and  more  rapid.  For  this  reason  Juan  Hsien  contended  that 
it  represented  a  deviation  from  the  true  traditional  tone,  and  this 
opinion  of  his  was  later  confirmed  by  the  discovery  of  an  authentic, 
ancient  metal  rule.26  These  string-  and  wind-accompanied  songs27  are 

24  "Pei-shang"  are  the  first  two  characters  of  a  song  written  by  Ts'ao  Ts'ao;  and 
"Ch'iu-feng"  the  first  two  words  of  a  song  written  by  Ts'ao  P'ei. 

25  See  note  19  above. 

26  In  his  study  of  the  music  of  the  time,  Hsun  Hsu  discovered  some  discrepancy 
between  different  notes.  His  inference  led  him  to  the  conclusion  that  the  ancient  rule 
was  about  4/10  of  an  inch  shorter  than  the  one  in  use  since  the  Han.  So  he  ordered  a 
new  rule  made,  according  to  which  new  pitch  pipes  were  constructed.  These  pipes  in 
turn  served  as  standards  for  the  tuning  of  various  instruments.  Then  the  rule  was  used 
to  test  ancient  extant  instruments.  He  found  the  measurements  thus  obtained  agreed 
perfectly  with  the  inscriptions  on  those  instruments.  And  then  a  jade  pipe,  a  musical  stone 
of  the  Chou  time,  and  a  bell  of  the  Han  time  were  unearthed.  When  the  new  pipes  were 
used  to  test  their  tune,  they  agreed.  Now  while  all  people  looked  upon  Hsiin's  dis- 
covery with  great  admiration,  Yuan  Hsien  objected  that  the  note  according  to  the  new 
rule  was  too  high.  It  happened  that  after  Yiian's  death  a  bronze  rule  was  discovered. 
Its  inscription  was  so  vague  that  it  was  not  possible  to  date  it.  But  there  was  no  doubt 
that  it  was  an  ancient  rule.  And  it  was  4/10  of  an  inch  longer  than  that  of  Hsiin's.  But 
the  writers  of  the  Chin-shu  (to  which  the  reader  is  referred  for  further  details)  con- 
cluded in  favor  of  Hsiin  because  of  the  confirmation  given  him  by  those  ancient  instru- 
ments. See  the  Chin-shu,  "Lii-li  chih." 

27  "Ho-yiieh"  is  an  abbreviated  expression  of  "Hsiang-ho  ko,"  a  form  of  singing 
accompanied  by  string,  wind  (flute),  brass,  and  stone  instruments.  Liu  included  in  this 
category  all  the  musical  pieces  he  discussed  in  this  chapter. 


Musical  Poetry  43 

characterized  by  refinement  and  excellence;  their  external  expressions 
and  inner  sentiments  accord  perfectly.  From  this  perfect  accord  we 
know  that  poetry  is  the  mind  of  music  and  sound  is  its  body.  Since 
the  body  of  music  is  sound,  blind  music  masters  tune  the  instruments; 
since  the  mind  of  music  is  poetry,  superior  men  perfect  literary  forms. 
In  "A  love  of  music  without  indulgence  in  excesses"28  lies  the  reason 
why  the  customs  of  the  state  of  Chin  were  praised;29  while  "[The 
gallant  and  the  girl,]  they  are  going  to  sport  together"30  spelled  the 
downfall  of  the  state  of  Cheng.31  Therefore  we  know  that  when 
Chi-cha  made  his  judgments,  he  was  listening  to  the  language  of  the 
songs,  not  merely  the  music. 

As  for  love  songs,  tender  and  sentimental  or  mournful  tunes 
expressing  final  and  fateful  decisions,32  they  overflowed  with  sensuous 
language.  How,  then,  was  it  possible  for  proper  music  to  emerge? 
However,  the  popular  taste  reveled  in  the  new  and  strange.  In  the 
presence  of  classical  music,  which  is  mellow  and  full  of  dignity,  people 
would  stretch  and  yawn;  but  when  they  listened  to  the  eccentric 
language  [of  the  Liu  Sung  love-songs],  they  would  slap  the  thigh  and 
begin  to  hop  up  and  down  like  sparrows.  This  marked  the  first  step 
toward  a  state  of  affairs  in  which  both  poetry  and  music  were  tinged 
by  the  influence  of  Cheng.33 

The  words  which  are  set  to  a  piece  of  music  are  poetry,  and  the 
musical  sounds  of  sung  poetry  are  melody.  In  employing  musical 
sounds  to  accompany  the  words  one  often  finds  that  poetry  is  too 
complicated  to  be  reduced  to  musical  rhythm.  Hence,  Ch'en  Ssu  [or 

28  A  line  from  the  "Hsi-so"  in  "T'ang-feng,"  Mao-shih  yin-te,  23/1 14/2.  T'ang  was 
later  the  state  of  Chin. 

29  The  praise  was  expressed  by  Chi-cha  of  Wu,  who  came  to  the  state  of  Lu  on  a 
diplomatic  mission.  See  note  15  above. 

30  A  line  occurring  in  both  stanzas  of  "Chen-wei"  in  "Cheng-feng."  Mao-shih  yin-te, 
I9/95/I»  2-  The  state  of  Cheng  is  known  for  its  love  of  sensuous  pleasure  in  both 
poetry  and  music. 

31  Also  a  judgment  expressed  by  Chi-cha. 

32  "Love  songs"  presumably  refers  to  poetry  by  Pao  Chao  of  Liu  Sung,  420-479;  and 
"mournful  tunes"  refers  to  songs  expressing  the  feelings  of  a  deserted  wife,  such  as 
"Pai-t'ou  yin." 

33  See  note  30  above. 


44  Musical  Poetry 

Ts'ao  Chih]34  complimented  Li  Yen-nien35  as  well-versed  in  adding 
words  to,  or  subtracting  words  from,  the  ancient  lyrics  [to  make  them 
fit  the  new  music].  He  deleted  superfluous  words,  revealing  the  value 
of  simplicity.  The  "Ta-feng"  of  Kao-tsu  [of  the  Han]36  and  the 
"Lai-ch'ih"  of  Emperor  Wu37  were  set  to  music  and  sung  by  boys' 
choruses.  In  these  songs  there  was  no  musical  discord.  Tzu-chien 
[or  Ts'ao  Chih]  and  Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi]  both  wrote  fine  songs; 
but  these  were  never  given  to  the  singers,  nor  accompanied  by  instru- 
ments.38 For  this  reason  they  were  considered  discordant  by  the  average 
listener  with  popular  taste.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  average  listener 
lacks  imagination.  The  military  songs  of  Hsuan  [the  Yellow  Emperor] 
and  Ch'i  [-po]39  and  the  elegies  of  Han  times,  though  differing  in 
their  themes,  the  former  military  and  the  latter  funereal,  are  both 
included  in  the  Yiieh-fu.  And  those  written  by  Miu  Hsi  [of  the  Wei 
dynasty]  could  be  considered  in  the  same  class  with  these.  Long  ago, 
when  Tzu-cheng  [or  Liu  Hsiang  of  the  Han;  77-6  B.C.]  treated 
literary  works,  he  distinguished  poetry  and  songs  into  two  categories. 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  a  brief  consideration  has  here  been  given  to 
music,  to  define  its  place  and  function. 

The  Tsan: 

The  eight  timbres40  introduce  musical  patterns  into  literary  works, 
In  which  the  words  are  implanted  to  express  the  form. 
Folk  songs  were  sung  in  the  wild, 

34  Known  as  Prince  Ch'en;  Ssu  was  his  posthumous  title. 

35  A  musician  during  the  time  of  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Han. 

36  The  first  two  words  of  a  song  Kao-tsu  wrote.  It  is  found  in  the  "Yiieh-shu"  in 
the  Shih-chi. 

37  The  last  two  words  of  a  song  written  by  the  emperor  mourning  the  loss  of  a  beauti- 
ful concubine.  It  is  found  in  the  "Wei-ch'i  chuan"  in  the  Han-shu. 

38  The  word  "singers"  in  the  phrase  which  is  here  rendered  "never  given  to  the 
singers"  is  actually  "wu-chao  ling-jen,"  literally,  actors  without  royal  edict.  According 
to  a  note  to  this  term  by  Chi  Yun  of  the  Ch'ing  dynasty,  all  poets  during  the  T'ang 
dynasty  who  wrote  poems  according  to  the  patterns  of  the  ancient  Yiieh-fu,  or  created 
new  titles  for  their  poems,  are  known  as  "Wu-chao  ling-jen."  This  would  suggest  that 
their  poems  were  not  written  to  be  set  to  music. 

89  See  the  "Yueh-chih"  in  the  Sung-shu. 

40  Sounds  from  metal,  stone,  earthenware,  leather,  silk,  wood,  gourd,  and  bamboo, 
materials  out  of  which  musical  instruments  are  made. 


Elucidation  of  Fu  45 

While  melodies  drawn  from  metal  and  stone  filled  the  steps  of  the 

court. 
It  is  difficult  to  recapture  the  spirit  of  the  ancient  music, 
But  it  is  all  too  easy  to  encourage  a  taste  for  the  sounds  of  Cheng. 
This  is  true  not  only  for  the  appreciation  of  music, 
But  also  for  our  grasp  of  the  principle  of  conduct. 


VIII.  Elucidation  of  Fu 


The  Boo\  of  Poetry  contains  six  elements,  the  second  of  which  is 
called  fu.  Fu  means  to  arrange;  it  signifies  arrangement  of  the  patterns 
that  give  form  to  literature,  and  expresses  the  feelings  that  conform 
to  objective  things.2  Duke  Shao  once  said  that  dukes  and  ministers 
presented  poetry,  music  masters  presented  chen  [admonitions],  and 
the  blind  presented  fu.  In  the  Commentary  it  is  said  that,  "One  who 
can  write  a  fu  when  ascending  to  the  height  .  .  .  may  be  made  a 
minister."3 

In  the  "Preface"  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  poetry  is  considered  to  belong 
to  the  same  category  as  fu  [inasmuch  as  fu  is  there  given  as  one  element 
of  the  book];  but  in  the  commentaries  fu  is  spoken  of  as  a  separate 
genre.4  However,  if  their  ultimate  purpose  is  considered,  all  are  seen 

1  Fu  is  a  genre  developed  from  the  poetry  of  the  state  of  Ch'u,  the  Ch'u-tz'u.  Liu 
Hsieh  in  this  chapter  begins  by  referring  to  the  various  senses  in  which  the  term  fu 
is  used,  then  traces  it  to  its  incipient  forms  in  earlier  times,  determining  its  relation  to 
Ancient  Poetry  and  the  Ch'u-tz'u,  and  finally  follows  its  development  to  his  own  time. 

2  The  function  of  fu  is  to  give  direct  narration,  unhampered  by  either  metaphor  or 
allegory.  We  often,  however,  find  fu  mixed  with  both  metaphor  and  allegory.  Hence 
another  interpretation  given  by  Liu  Hsiang:  That  which  is  chanted  without  being  sung 
is  fu,  suggesting  thus  that  there  is  a  special  manner  in  which  fu  is  chanted.  For  the  six 
elements  of  poetry,  see  note  2,  Chapter  V. 

3  Commentary  refers  to  Mao  Commentary  on  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  The  line  quoted 
here  is  taken  from  the  commentary  to  poem  no.  50,  "Ting  chih  fang  chung,"  in  the 
"Yung-feng"  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 

4  In  the  "Chou-yii"  in  the  Kuo-yii,  fu  is  mentioned  along  with  shih  (poetry),  chen 
(admonitions),  and  chien  (remonstrances);  in  the  Mao  Commentary,  it  is  separately 
mentioned  apart  from  shih  (oaths),  shuo  (argumentative  writings),  and  lei  (elegy). 


46  Elucidation  of  Fu 

to  be  trunk  and  branches  of  one  tree.  [To  emphasize  the  independence 
of  fu  as  a  coordinate  rather  than  a  subordinate  form]  Liu  Hsiang 
showed  clearly  that  it  is  chanted,  not  sung;5  and  Pan  Ku  pronounced 
it  to  be  a  later  development  of  the  ancient  poetry.6  As  for  the  "Ta-sui" 
of  Duke  Chuang  of  Cheng7  and  the  "Hu-ch'iu"  of  Shih  Wei,8  their 
expressions  are  terse  and  their  lines  are  short,  and  all  of  their  poetry  is 
their  own  original  creation;  but  although  they  follow  the  form  of  fu> 
they  only  marked  its  dawn,  still  far  from  daylight.  It  was  Ling-chim 
[or  Ch'u  Yuan]  who,  with  his  writing  of  the  Sao  style,  first  broadened 
the  scope  of  both  its  sound  patterns  and  its  external  expressions.  If 
this  summary  is  correct,  then  fu  first  received  its  mandate  as  a  literary 
form  in  the  works  of  the  Ancient  Poets  and  expanded  its  scope  in  the 
Ch'u-tz'u.  Since  then  Hsiin  K'uang  [or  Hsiintzu]  wrote  the  fu  of  "Li" 
and  "Chih"9  and  Sung  Yii10  composed  the  fu  of  "Feng"11  and  "Tiao."12 
These  writers  first  gave  the  name  fu  to  their  writings,  consciously 
distinguishing  it  in  this  way  from  poetry.  Originally  a  satellite  among 
the  six  elements  of  poetry,  it  now  assumed  the  status  of  a  great  inde- 
pendent state.  The  "guest-host"  narrative  was  the  first  form  of  fu,13 
and  an  elaboration  of  sounds  and  external  expressions  followed,  with 
the  employment  of  all  the  known  literary  effects.14  It  was  the  first 
time  a  distinction  was  made  between  poetry  and  fu,  the  beginning  of 
fu's  receiving  its  distinctive  name. 

The  Ch'in  dynasty  was  not  known  for  its  literary  achievements. 
At  that  time  we  find  some  fu  in  a  mixture  of  forms.  The  poets  at  the 

5  The  Han-shu,  "I-wen  chih."  This  chapter  on  literature  in  Pan  Ku's  Han-shu  is  based 
on  the  "Ch'i-liieh,"  a  bibliographical  account  of  seven  different  categories,  including 
classics,  their  commentaries,  speculative  writings,  poetry,  and  fu,  started  by  Liu  Hsiang 
and  completed  by  his  son  Liu  Hsin  of  the  Han. 

6  See  preface  of  Pan  Ku's  "Liang-tu  fu,"  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 

7  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-tc,  3 /Yin  1/3  Tso. 

8  Ibid.,  94/Hsi  5/1  Tso. 

9  The  Hsiintzu,  "Fu-pien"   (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  18,  Chapter  26. 

10  Believed  to  be  a  disciple  of  Ch'u  Yuan,  and  flourishing  during  the  third  century  B.C. 

11  In  the  Wen-hsiian. 

12  Ku  wen-yuan  (Wan-yu  wen-k'u  ed.),  chiian  II,  pp.  63-5. 

13  The  "K'e-chu"  (guest-host)  fu  was  first  started  by  Hsiin  K'uang,  in  the  form  of 
a  dialogue.  Hence  the  name. 

14  This  elaboration  refers  to  Ch'u  Yuan. 


Elucidation  of  Fu  47 

beginning  of  the  Han  dynasty  wrote  them  after  the  earlier  pattern. 
Lu  Chia  attacked  the  problem  very  early;  Chia  I  developed  the  trend; 
Mei  Sheng  and  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  made  the  style  popular;  and  Wang 
Pao  and  Yang  Hsiung  brought  it  to  powerful  fulfillment.  And  writers 
from  Mei  Kao  and  Tung-fang  [So]  on  down  treated  all  kinds  of 
subjects.  Examples  of  fu  multiplied  in  the  time  of  Emperor  Hsiian 
[73-49  B.C.]  and  were  edited  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Ch'eng 
[32-7  B.C.].  Those  presented  for  royal  perusal  amounted  to  more  than 
a  thousand.  When  we  examine  their  sources,  we  are  convinced  that 
they  originated  in  the  state  of  Ch'u  and  reached  their  height  in  the 
Han  dynasty.  The  fu  on  the  themes  of  capitals,  palaces,  parks,  and 
hunting,  as  well  as  those  describing  travels  and  expressing  thought,15 
are  all  works  whose  function  is  "to  set  the  boundaries  of  a  state  and 
to  mark  the  divisions  in  the  country";16  [in  other  words  these  works 
influenced  the  conduct  of  rulers]  and  their  significance  lies  in  their 
glorification  of  the  state.  They  struck,  in  their  preface,  the  right  note, 
and  concluded  with  summaries  in  logical  order.  In  the  former,  the 
main  themes  are  proposed  and  the  fundamental  feelings  made  articu- 
late; and  in  the  latter  the  logical  pattern  is  given,  showing  its  natural 
rhetorical  flow.  Since  the  last  stanza  of  the  "No"17  had  been  called  by 
Min-ma  [Fu]  the  luan  [conclusion]18  we  know  that  both  the  sung 
compiled  by  the  Yin  people  and  the  fu  done  by  the  Ch'u  poets  belong 
to  the  category  of  masterpieces  and  form  the  pivot  of  graceful  writings. 
As  to  those  works  whose  themes  are  plants,  animals,  and  other  miscel- 
laneous things,  they  express  feelings  which  arise  in  response  to  external 
situations,  feelings  which  are  reactions  to  chance  experiences  with 
various  scenes.  In  describing  the  external  situations,  the  language  should 
be  delicate  and  closely  knit;  and  in  forging  metaphors  in  relation  to 
the  nature  of  things,  appropriateness  in  principle  should  be  emphasized. 

15  On  capitals:  Pan  Ku's  "Liang-tu"  and  Chang  Heng's  "Erh-ching";  on  palaces: 
Wang  Yen-shou's  "Ling-kuang"  and  "Ching-fu";  on  parks  and  hunting:  fu  by  Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju  and  Yang  Hsiung,  such  as  "Shang-lin,"  "Kan-ch'iian,"  "Chiang-yang,"  and 
"Yu-la."  Most  fu  are  found  in  the   Wen-hsiian. 

16  The  functions  of  government  offices  as  defined  in  the  Chou-li. 

17  Mao-shih  yin-te,  81/301. 

18  The  Kuo-yii,  "Lu-yii,"  hsia. 


48  Elucidation  of  Fu 

These  are  in  the  realm  of  minor  works,  but  are  crucial  points  in  the 
achievement  of  the  qualities  of  the  wondrous  and  the  skillful. 

As  for  the  following  ten  fu  writers:  Hsun  [K'uang]  used  riddles  to 
state  his  thought;  Sung  [Yii]  first  used  the  grandiloquent  language 
which  marked  the  beginning  of  the  affected  patterns;  Mei  Sheng's 
"T'u-yuan"  combines  the  fundamental  with  what  is  new;  Hsiang-ju's 
"Shang-lin"  employs  a  variety  of  images  to  create  the  beautiful;  Chia  I 
in  his  "Fu-niao"  shows  keen  perception  in  his  analysis  of  feelings  and 
ideas;  Tzu-yiian  [or  Wang  Pao]  in  his  "Tung-hsiao"  is  most  accurate 
in  imitating  the  ever-changing  patterns  of  sound  and  appearance; 
the  "Liang-tu"  of  Meng-chien  [or  Pan  Ku]  is  clear  and  graceful; 
Chang  Heng's  "Erh-ching"  is  lively  and  grand;  the  "Kan-ch'uan"  of 
Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung]  set  the  style  for  profound  themes;  the 
"Ling-kuang"  of  [Wang]  Yen-shou  is  filled  with  images  of  flight  and 
movement.  They  were  all  heroes  in  the  realm  of  the  tzu  and  fu. 

The  works  of  Chung-hsiian  [or  Wang  Ts'an]  are  fine  and  detailed 
and  they  always  start  out  with  vigor.  Wei-ch'ang  [or  Hsu  Kan]  is 
learned  and  comprehending,  and  his  writings  occasionally  fall  into 
bold  colorful  patterns.  The  fu  of  T'ai-ch'ung  [or  Tso  Ssu]  and  An-jen 
[or  P'an  Yueh]  established  great  models  for  composition  on  stately 
themes;  and  those  of  Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi]  and  Tzu-an  [or  Wang 
Kung-sui]  are  solid  achievements  on  popular  subjects.  Ching-ch'un 
[or  Kuo  P'u]  was  sophisticated  and  clever  and  his  flow  of  rhetoric 
was  bountiful;  and  Yen-po  [or  Yuan  Hung]  dealt  in  generalities  and 
was  never  exhausted  but  always  full  of  feelings.  These  were  also  the 
leaders  of  the  fu  in  the  Wei  and  the  Chin  dynasties. 

The  reason  for  making  "ascension  to  the  height"  the  peculiar  quality 
of  fu  is  that  it  is  the  sight  of  concrete  objects  which  excites  the  emotions. 
Since  the  emotions  have  been  excited  by  concrete  objects,  the  ideas 
associated  with  the  objects  always  remain  clear;  and  since  the  objects 
are  viewed  with  feeling,  the  language  used  to  describe  them  is  always 
beautiful.  Beautiful  language  and  clear  ideas  complement  each  other 
as  the  symbol  and  the  symbolized.  They  are  like  red  and  purple  silk 
in  weaving,  and  black  and  yellow  pigments  in  painting.  The  patterns, 


Ode  and  Pronouncement  49 

though  mixed,  possess  substance,  and  the  colors,  though  variegated, 
are  fundamentally  based.  This  is  the  main  principle  of  the  fu  writing. 
However,  for  those  who  run  after  the  secondary  and  overlook 
fundamentals,  even  if  they  did  read  one  thousand  fu,  they  would  only 
sink  deeper  in  their  perplexity  about  its  essential  qualities.19  As  a  result, 
profuse  flowers  would  tend  to  ruin  the  branches  and  rich  viands  to 
damage  the  bone,  offering  neither  the  values  necessary  to  maintain 
moral  principles  nor  any  aid  in  the  form  of  admonition  and  warning. 
It  was  for  this  reason  that  Master  Yang  [Hsiung]  regretted  his  youthful 
indulgence  in  the  "art  of  worm-carving,"  and  ridiculed  the  beautiful 
patterns  of  fog  and  clouds.20 

The  Tsan: 
The  fu  was  derived  from  poetry 
And  developed  into  several  different  forms. 
In  describing  objects  and  picturing  appearances 
The  richness  of  its  patterns  is  like  that  of  carving  and  painting; 
It  casts  lustre  over  the  dull, 

And  paints  the  commonplace  in  language  that  has  no  limitations. 
In  style,  its  ultimate  achievement  is  beauty  under  control,21 
And  its  language  is  the  result  of  the  cutting  out  of  weeds. 


IX.  Ode  and  Pronouncement  (The  Sung  and  the  Tsan) 


In  the  list  of  the  "Four   Beginnings,"   the  sung  occupies   the  final 

19  Huan  T'an,  Hsin-lun,  quoted  Yang  Hsiung  as  saying:  "One  who  has  read  one 
thousand  fu  will  be  good  at  it." 

20  Yang  Hsiung,  Fa-yen,  "Wu-tzu  pien":  "Someone  asked,  'When  you  were  young 
you  loved  fu,  did  you  not?'  'Yes,  but  it  was  the  worm-  and  seal-carving  of  a  child.'  In 
a  little  while  he  continued,  'An  adult  will  not  do  it.'  .  .  .  Someone  said,  'But  it  has 
the  beautiful  patterns  of  fog  and  clouds!'  [Yang]  said,  'That  would  be  just  moth-worm 
to  a  seamstress's  work.'  " 

21  Yang  Hsiung,  Fa-yen,  "Wu-tzu,":  "The  fu  of  the  ancient  poets  has  beauty 
which  is  under  control;  and  that  of  later  literary  men  has  beauty  which  is  infected  with 
abandonment." 


50  Ode  and  Pronouncement 

position.  Sung  means  to  describe  a  spectacle;  its  function  is  to  praise 
great  virtue  and  describe  the  performance  of  rites  honoring  it.1  During 
the  time  of  Ruler  K'u,  Hsien  Mo  wrote  sung  to  be  set  to  the  music  of 
"chiu-shao."2  Since  the  Shang  dynasty,  the  genre  has  been  complete 
with  words  and  form. 

Feng  is  that  form  whose  influence  reaches  the  limit  of  a  state;  ya  is 
that  form  whose  corrective  influence  reaches  the  four  directions  of 
the  realm;  and  sung  is  that  which  is  used  in  ceremonies  before,  and 
prayers  to,  the  spirits.  The  feng  and  the  two  ya,  concerned  with  human 
affairs,  are  of  two  types:  the  modified  and  the  correct.3  But  the  sung's 
main  function  is  to  appeal  to  the  spirits;  hence  it  should  be  perfect. 
The  sung  of  Lu  glorifies  Duke  Tan  [of  Chou],  and  the  sung  of  Shang 
records  the  merits  of  earlier  kings.  Both  are  songs  proper  for  temple 
rites  and  are  not  ordinary  pieces  to  be  sung  during  feasts.  The  "Shih- 
mai"4  was  written  by  Duke  Chou;5  and  in  the  sung  of  this  sage  we 
find  the  model  of  the  genre.  But  all  people  have  their  own  minds,  and 
there  is  no  stopping  their  mouths.  The  Chin  carriage  driver's  praise 
of  the  fields  on  the  plain6  and  the  satire  of  the  people  of  Lu  on 
[Confucius'  leather]  knee  guard7  were  originally  straightforward 
statements  which  were  not  sung:  they  were  short  exhortations  or 
satires.  But  [Tso]  Ch'iu-ming8  and  Tzu-kao9  turned  them  into  sung. 


1  Cf.  note  4,  Chapter  III.  The  sung  refers  particularly  to  the  last  section  of  the 
of  Poetry,  which  consists  of  songs  sung  in  accompaniment  to  dances  during  ceremonial 
rites  in  honor  of  the  ancestors  of  the  dynasty  makers.  It  is  here  that  we  find  poetry, 
music,  and  dance  linked  together  to  perform  one  function. 

2  See  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  "Chung-hsia  chi,"  "Ku-yiieh  p'ien." 

3  For  the  explanation  of  the  ideas  of  the  modified  and  correct  forms,  see  "The  Great 
Preface"  in  the  Mao  version  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  attributed  first  to  Tzu-hsia,  a  disciple 
of  Confucius,  and  later  to  Wei  Hung  of  the  later  Han. 

4  The  Mao-shih  yin-te,  75/273. 

5  About  the  affairs  of  King  Wu.  See  the  Kuo-yii,  "Chou-yii,"  and  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching- 
chuan  yin-te,  199/Hsiian  12/3  Tso. 

QIbid.,  132/Hsi  28/5  Tso. 

7  In  K'ung-ts'ung-tzu,  "Ch'en  wang-i  pien,"  it  is  stated  that  when  Confucius  first 
served  the  state  of  Lu  as  its  prime  minister,  the  people  of  Lu  ridiculed  him  for  his 
leather  kneecap.  But  three  years  later,  when  Confucius  succeeded  in  bringing  about  the 
transformation  of  the  land,  the  people  began  to  sing  their  praise  of  him. 

8  The  supposed  author  of  the  Tso-chuan. 

9  Alias  K'ung  Ch'uang,  and  not  the  man  our  author  wanted  to  refer  to.  He  seems  to 


Ode  and  Pronouncement  51 

These  are  cases  of  "plain  sung"  in  which  the  sung  form  was  modified 
to  include  subject-matter  from  the  affairs  of  men.  When  San-lii10 
wrote  his  "Orange  Sung'  he  imparted  to  it  a  colorful  language  of 
exquisite  fragrance  and  taste,  steeped  in  metaphor  and  allegory.  Here 
even  the  orange,  a  thing  of  little  importance,  received  the  treatment 
of  sung. 

Emperor  Cheng  of  the  Ch'in  had  sung  engraved  on  tablets  to 
commemorate  his  own  achievements.  Emperor  Hui  and  Emperor 
Ching  of  the  Han,  too,  had  the  virtues  of  their  ancestors  sung.  This 
practice  of  sung- writing  was  continued  generation  after  generation. 

As  for  the  sung  by  Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung]  in  honor  of  Ch'ung- 
kuo,11  the  sung  by  Meng-chien  [or  Pan  Ku]  to  Marquis  Tai,12 
Wu-chung's  [or  Fu  Fs]  commemoration  of  Hsien-tsung  [Emperor 
Ming  of  the  later  Han],  and  Shih  Ts'en's  eulogy  of  Empress  Hsi,13 
they  either  imitated  the  style  of  the  "Ch'ing-miao,"14  or  modeled 
themselves  on  the  "Chiung"15  and  the  "No";16  although  they  differ 
in  depth  and  detail,  they  have  the  same  function  in  that  they  commemo- 
rate the  virtuous  and  describe  their  ceremonial  rites,  and  are  thus 
alike  in  being  elegant  documents  of  the  state. 

In  the  "Pei-cheng"  of  Pan  [Ku]  and  the  "Hsi-cheng"17  of  Fu  [I], 
we  find  that  what  are  designated  as  sung  have  been  transformed  into 
mere  prefaces.  And  is  this  not  to  praise  the  erroneous,  and  thus  do 
violence  to  the  form?  And  the  "Kuang-ch'eng"  and  "Shang-lin"  of 
Ma  Yung  [79-166]  are  graceful  like  fu.  How  he  sacrificed  the  substance 
in  his  love  for  rhetoric!  On  the  other  hand,  both  Ts'ui  Yiian's  "Wen- 
hsiieh"  and  Ts'ai  Yung's  "Fan-ch'ii"  give  beauty  to  prefaces  and  are 
brief  and  simple;  Chih  Yii's  critical  writing  is  fine  and  clear,  but  when 

have  made  a  mistake  about  the  identity  of  his  man:  the  one  he  wanted  is  Tzu-shun, 
quoted  in  K 'ung-ts 'ung-tzu,  the  source  of  his  information. 

10  The  title  of  Ch'ii  Yiian's  office,  the  function  of  which  was  to  be  in  charge  of  the 
education  of  the  young  nobles  of  the  royal  clans  in  the  state  of  Ch'u. 

11  The  Han-shu,  biography  of  Chao  Ch'ung-kuo. 

12  The  title  of  Tou  Jung.  See  the  T'ai-p'ing  yii-lan,  chiian  588,  where  the  Wen-chang 
liu-pieh  lun  by  Chih  Yii  is  quoted  on  this  point. 

13  She  became  empress  in  A.D.  102.  14  Mao-shih  yin-te,  75/266. 
15  Ibid.,  79/297.                                                16  Ibid.,  81/301. 

17  Ch'uan-hou-han  wen  contains  Fu  I's  "Hsi-cheng." 


52  Ode  and  Pronouncement 

[passing  judgments  on  Yang  Hsiung's  "Ch'ung-kuo"  sung  or  Fu  Fs 
"Hsien-tsung"  sung]  he  treated  the  sung  together  with  both  feng  and 
ya  without  discriminating  between  their  purposes,  he  was  advancing 
unsound  theory,  similar  to  the  absurd  discussion  of  yellow  and  white.18 

During  the  Wei  and  the  Chin  few  sung  got  out  of  the  rut.  Of  the 
works  by  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih],  the  "Huangtzu"  is  outstanding; 
and  among  the  many  pieces  by  Lu  Chi,  the  "Kung-ch'en"  is  the  most 
prominent.  The  fact  that  they  mixed  praise  and  censure  in  the  same 
piece  is  indeed  an  example  of  the  corrupt  style  of  an  age  of  decline.19 

The  sung  must  possess  the  qualities  of  elegance  and  grace,  and  its 
language  has  to  be  clear  and  bright.  In  its  narration  it  is  similar  to 
the  fu,  but  it  must  not  succumb  to  florid  and  excessive  language.  It  has 
the  spirit  of  reverence  and  prudence  which  characterizes  the  ming,  or 
inscription,  but  differs  from  it  in  not  being  admonition  or  warning.  In 
its  praise  and  honoring  of  its  subject,  it  formulates  beautiful  expressions, 
but  its  content  has  the  broadest  scope.  It  has  finesse  and  artifice  adapted 
to  the  feelings  aroused.  This  is  the  essence  of  the  sung. 

The  term  tsan  means  "to  pronounce  and  assist."  Formerly,  during 
the  worship  of  Yii-shun,20  the  music  master  repeated  the  tsan,  which 
was  the  initial  pronouncement  of  the  ceremony.  When  I21  "assisted" 
Yu,  and  I  Chih22  "assisted"  Wu  Hsien,23  they  both  made  laudatory 
pronouncements  in  a  loud  voice,  giving  assistance  by  rendering  in 
exclamations  that  which  was  beyond  language.  Therefore,  when  the 
Court  of  State  Ceremony  was  first  created  during  the  Han,  such  pro- 

18  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  "Pieh-lei  pien":  "A  sword  expert  said,  'Its  [the  sword's]  white 
color  means  that  it  is  hard,  and  its  yellow  color  means  that  it  is  strong.  Now  the  yellow 
color  is  mixed  with  the  white;  it  must  be  both  hard  and  strong.  It  is  a  good  sword.' 
The  objector  said,  'Its  white  color  means  that  it  is  not  strong,  and  its  yellow  color  means 
that  it  is  not  hard.  Now  the  yellow  color  is  mixed  with  the  white;  it  must  be  neither 
hard  nor  strong.  How  can  it  be  a  good  [sharp]  sword?'  " 

19  The  original  function  of  the  sung  is  to  praise,  and  never  to  censure. 

20  See  note  13,  Chapter  V. 

21 1  was  Yu's  minister,  to  whom  Yii  tried  to  give  his  rule  in  the  manner  of  Yao  and 
Shun. 

22  Another  name  for  I  Yin,  a  minister  of  T'ang  of  the  Shang  dynasty. 

23  There  were  three  persons  of  this  name:  a  sorcerer  at  the  time  of  the  Yellow 
Emperor,  a  sorcerer  during  the  Shang,  and  a  medical  doctor  of  Yao.  Since  I  Chih  is 
I  Yin,  we  shall  assume  that  the  second  Wu  Hsien  is  meant.  A  sorcerer  in  ancient  times 
was  prominent  in  ceremonies. 


Ode  and  Pronouncement  53 

nouncements  were  designated  tsan,  an  ancient  term.  But  [Ssu-ma] 
Hsiang-ju  was  the  first  author  to  try  his  brush  on  a  tsan,  one  which 
commemorated  Ching  K'o.24  In  the  historical  works  of  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien 
and  Pan  Ku,  tsan  were  employed  to  express  both  praise  and  censure. 
These  gave  summaries  in  terse  language  and  adopted  the  style  of  the 
sung  for  pronouncing  judgments.  And  the  critical  remarks  at  the  end 
of  chi,  or  chronicles  of  rulers,  and  chuan,  or  biographies,  are  also  given 
the  same  name  tsan.  And  yet  Chung-ch'ia  [or  Chih  Yii]25  erroneously 
called  them  shu,  or  narratives.  This  was  indeed  wide  of  the  mark. 
When  Chin-ch'un  [or  Kuo  P'u]  made  his  commentary  on  the  ya  he 
wrote  tsan  for  all  animals  and  plants.  What  he  treated  included  both 
the  praise  and  the  censure.  This  type  of  tsan  may  be  likened  to  the 
modified  type  of  sung.  But  the  original  idea  of  the  tsan  developed  out 
of  the  desire  to  express  praise  or  admiration.  For  this  reason  its  style 
has  always  been  terse,  allowing  little  room  for  expansion.  Its  lines  are 
always  in  the  four-word  pattern,  and  its  rhymes  are  limited.  Its  guid- 
ing principle  is  to  employ  brevity  of  language  to  portray  adequately 
the  feelings  involved  and  to  develop  its  literary  expressions  with 
emphasis  on  lucidity.  Although  its  roots  strike  deep  into  the  past,  it 
has  seldom  been  put  to  use.  In  general  it  may  be  considered  a  branch 
of  the  sung. 

The  Tsan: 
To  give  dignity  to  ceremonies  the  sung  is  the  proper  form, 
And  to  perpetuate  achievements  one  employs  the  tsan. 
Both  carve  colorful  designs  and  spread  out  literary  patterns; 
Both  are  sonorous  and  brilliant. 
Old  in  years  and  distant  in  time, 

Their  beautiful  music  may  still  be  likened  to  the  dawn. 
But  when  they  are  applied  to  common  things, 
Their  dazzling  language  soon  invites  boredom. 

24  A  heroic  soul  during  the  Warring  States  period,  who  was  sent  as  an  assassin  to  kill 
the  King  of  Ch'in. 

25  Flourishing  in  the  third  century. 


X.  Sacrificial  Prayer  and  Oath  of  Agreement  (The  Chu 
and  the  Meng)1 

The  position  of  heaven  and  earth  having  been  fixed,  sacrifice  is  offered 
to  all  the  deities.  After  the  worship  of  the  six  subjects2  has  been  per- 
formed and  sacrificial  ceremonies  to  the  hills  and  streams  have  been 
properly  administered,  there  will  be  seasonal  rain  and  gentle  breezes, 
giving  life  to  corn  and  millet.  For  this  reason  the  people  pay  these  deities 
whom  they  worship  good  measure  in  return.  The  fragrance  of  great 
sacrifice3  arises  from  one's  enlightened  virtue;  and  the  words  of  faith 
offered  by  the  sacrificial  officials  must  be  of  literary  excellence.  Long 
ago  I  Ch'i4  initiated  the  twelfth-moon  sacrifice  to  be  offered  to  the 
eight  deities.  Its  words  are:  "Let  earth  return  to  its  habitat  and  water 
to  its  gully,  and  let  no  insects  appear,  and  may  all  grasses  and  plants 
return  to  their  marshy  place."  These  are  the  words  of  the  sacrificial 
prayer  of  Shen  Nung.5 

The  words  of  Shun's  prayer  to  the  deity  of  the  field  run:  "I  carry 
this  plough  to  till  the  southern  field.  May  all  the  people  within  the  four 
seas  share  this  abundance."  His  devotion  to  the  interest  of  the  people 
is  clearly  shown  in  these  words.  And  Li  [T'ang]  of  Shang,  with  his 
sage  reverence  increasing  day  by  day,  sacrificed  to  heaven  with  a  black 
bull,  pleading  that  if  any  sin  should  be  committed  anywhere  within 
the  realm  he  might  assume  the  responsibility  for  it.  These  are  the  words 
of  his  prayer  to  heaven.  During  the  time  of  drought  T'ang  again 
prayed  in  a  carriage  of  white,6  and  in  the  prayer  he  chided  himself 
for  six  things.7  These  are  the  words  of  prayers  for  seasonal  rain  and 
the  proper  regulation  of  other  elements  of  nature. 

1  In  this  chapter,  Liu  Hsieh  traces  the  chu  and  the  meng  to  their  earliest  forms.  Since 
both  involve  an  appeal  to  deities,  they  are  grouped  together. 

2  The  four  seasons,  cold  and  heat,  the  sun,  the  moon,  the  stars,  and  flood  and 
drought. 

3  Referring  to  the  acceptance  of  the  sacrifice  by  deities. 

4  Identified  as  either  Shen  Nung,  the  divine  farmer,  or  Yao,  the  legendary  emperor. 

5  See  Li-chi,  "Chiao  t'e  sheng."  Li-chi  yin-te,  11/21. 

6  White  is  symbolic  of  grief. 

7  The  prayer  is  preserved  in  the  Hsiintzu,  "Ta-liieh  p'ien."  The  six  things  are:    (1) 


Sacrificial  Prayer  and  Agreement  55 

The  officer  of  sacrifice  during  the  Chou  dynasty  was  in  charge  of 
the  six  prayers  offered  in  the  six  sacrifices:  "Myriads  of  things  all  have 
their  life"8  was  presented  before  the  sacrifice  of  heaven  and  earth; 
"Universally  acting  in  dignity"  was  sung  at  the  ceremonies  to  welcome 
the  sun;  "Rising  early  and  retiring  late"  was  a  prayer  said  before 
the  ancestral  temples;  "Happiness  bountiful  and  without  limit"  was 
included  in  the  prayer  offered  while  sacrificing  sheep  to  the  deities; 
and  during  the  sacrifice  offered  either  to  the  god  of  earth,  or  to  the 
supreme  Deity  on  the  battlefield,  there  were  always  literary  expressions. 
For  it  was  in  these  expressions  that  the  ancients  showed  reverence 
to  gods  and  respect  to  ancestors. 

Since  the  time  of  Ch'un-ch'iu,  sacrilege  has  been  committed  in  the 
adulation  and  flattery  practiced  at  sacrifices.  Officers  of  sacrifice  were 
corrupted  by  bribes,  and  historians  indulged  in  ornate  rhetoric  which 
dispersed  the  deities,  who  ceased  to  honor  the  sacrifices  by  descending. 

When  Chang  Lao  congratulated  [Chao  Wu-tzu]  on  the  completion 
of  his  house,  his  words  of  congratulation  were  considered  good  prayers 
either  for  rejoicing  or  for  mourning.9  K'uai  K'uei  was  blessed  because 
of  his  prayer  in  battle  about  his  tendons  and  bones.10  Even  under 
adverse  circumstances,  people  always  resorted  to  prayers. 

As  for  the  "Chao-hun"  in  the  Ch'u-tz'u,  it  may  be  considered  the 
pattern  of  beauty  for  prayers.  The  various  sacrifices  of  the  Han11 
revealed  the  functions  of  prayers  and  the  manner  in  which  they  were 
performed.  They  contain  in  them  the  ideas  of  great  scholars,  but  include 
also  some  suggestions  from  necromancers.  So,  the  secret  prayers  to 
shift  calamities   [from  the  royal  person  to  the  people]    were  vastly 


intemperate  government,  (2)  causing  the  people  to  suffer,  (3)  luxury  in  the  palaces, 
(4)  interference  in  government  by  palace  women,  (5)  bribery,  and  (6)  employment  of 
sycophants.  In  his  prayer  T'ang  asked  if  these  were  the  reasons  for  the  drought. 

8  A  line  of  the  prayer  during  a  sacrifice  to  heaven;  similar  ideas  are  expressed  in  the 
prayer  to  earth.  See  Ta-tai  li-chi,  "Kung-kuan  p'ien." 

9  See  Li-chi,  "T'an-kung,"  hsia.  Li-chi  yin-tc,  4/64. 

10  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chnan  yin-te,  469/Ai  2/7  Tso.  K'uai  K'uei  was  the  heir  to  the 
throne  of  Wei.  There  was  a  rebellion  in  the  state  and  he  took  part  in  the  suppression. 
About  to  go  into  battle,  he  prayed  that  his  tendons  and  bones  might  suffer  no  mishap. 

11  See  Shih-chi,  "Feng-shan  shu." 


56  Sacrificial  Prayer  and  Agreement 

different  in  spirit  from  those  of  T'ang.12  And  the  practice  of  using 
little  children  to  drive  away  the  imps  of  pestilence  was  similar  in  spirit 
to  the  curse  of  the  sorcerers  of  Yiieh.13  The  principle  of  conduct  was 
gradually  losing  its  hold  on  society. 

Since  the  Yellow  Emperor's  malediction  against  the  perverse,  and 
Tung-fang  So's  scolding  of  the  ghosts,  later  imprecations  upon  evil 
have  all  been  characterized  by  clever  anathema,  the  only  exception 
being  Ch'en-ssu's  [or  Ts'ao  Chih's]  prayer  against  the  calamity  of 
storm,  which  was  offered  in  a  spirit  of  righteousness.14 

According  to  the  accepted  rule,  the  function  of  a  sacrificial  prayer 
was  limited  to  the  reporting  of  events.  But  the  sacrificial  pieces  of  the 
middle  periods15  contain  praises  for  good  words  and  conduct.  This 
inclusion  of  the  act  of  praising  in  a  sacrificial  piece  was  an  expansion 
of  the  function  of  the  genre. 

Again,  during  Han  times  there  were  elegiac  edicts  on  occasions  of 
royal  mourning;  and  when  Chou  [or  King  Mu]  lost  his  concubine 
Sheng-chi,  the  historian  of  the  inner  palace  presented  the  elegiac  edict. 
According  to  these  evidences,  the  elegiac  edict  was  originally  an  edict 
whose  purpose  was  to  confer  honor,  but  since  the  occasion  was  a  sad 
one,  the  language  was  chosen  to  accord  with  that  mood.  So  the  elegiac 
edict  has  the  same  significance  as  the  lei,  or  simple  elegy,  except  that 
its  words  are  addressed  to  spirits.  It  begins  like  the  lei  and  ends  on  an 
elegiac  note;  it  has  the  style  of  a  sung  and  the  form  of  a  prayer.  [This 
last  is  true  because]  the  grand  historian16  modeled  his  pronouncement 
after  the  prayer  of  Chou  times. 

Whenever  words  are  purposefully  grouped  together,  flowery  pat- 
terns are  developed;  but  in  the  invocation  of  the  spirits,  real  feeling 
must  be  stressed.  Both  for  refining  the  language  and  for  establishing 
one's  sincerity,  the  necessary  condition  is  to  have  a  clear  conscience. 
The  spirit  in  which  a  prayer  is  said  must  be  one  of  sincerity  and 

12  See  note  7  above. 

13  The  people  of  Yiieh  believed  in  ghosts  and  sorcery.  See  Han-shu,  "Chiao-ssu  chih." 

14  The  piece  is  quoted  in  the  l-wen  lei-chii,  chiian  100. 

15  Apparently  referring  to  the  Han  and  the  Wei  periods. 

16  In  ancient  China  a  grand  historian  was  in  charge  of  mourning  ceremonies. 


Sacrificial  Prayer  and  Agreement  57 

reverence;  and  the  form  in  which  sacrifices  are  offered  should  be  one 
of  respect  and  contrition.  These  are  the  main  ideas.  The  sacrificial 
piece  offered  to  the  Meng-shan  by  Pan  Ku  is  the  very  model  of  sin- 
cerity and  reverence  in  a  prayer;17  and  P'an  Yueh's  elegy  on  his  wife 
Yu  expresses  the  essence  of  respect  and  grief  in  sacrifice.18  If  these 
pieces  are  studied  thoroughly,  the  secret  of  their  success  will  be 
clearly  seen. 

The  term  meng  means  to  make  clear  [or  to  declare].  With  red  bull, 
white  horse,  pearl  tray,  and  jade  vessel,19  the  parties  declared  their 
intentions  at  dawn  before  the  spirits.  During  the  times  of  the  Three 
Ancient  Kings,20  the  forms  of  oath  and  declaration21  were  not  used. 
When  they  found  it  necessary  to  swear  in  signing  an  agreement,  they 
gave  their  words  and  withdrew.  During  the  decline  of  the  Chou 
dynasty,  there  were  many  declarations  of  agreement;  at  times  these 
were  concluded  by  force.  The  practice  started  with  Ts'ao  Mo22  and 
was  finally  resorted  to  by  Mao  Sui.28  King  Chao  of  the  state  of  Ch'in 
made  an  oath  promising  the  I  tribe  a  gift  of  yellow  dragons  in  his 
agreement  with  them;24  and  the  first  ruler  of  the  Han  swore  by  the 
mountains  and  rivers  in  the  statement  he  made  when  he  created  the 
dukedoms.25  But  only  when  the  righteous  principle  underlying  it  was 
maintained  was  it  possible  to  fulfill  the  conditions  of  the  agreement. 
As  soon  as  the  principle  came  to  be  neglected,  the  agreement  was  also 
thrown  to  the  winds.  Whether  an  agreement  is  to  be  respected  or 
ignored  lies  completely  in  the  hands  of  men:  the  oath  has  nothing  to 

17  Fragments  of  this  piece  are  preserved  in  Yen  K'o-chun's  Ch'uan-hou-han  wen, 
chiian  26. 

18  Fragments  of  this  piece  are  preserved  in  l-wen  lei-chii,  chiian  38. 

19  At  a  ceremony  where  intentions  were  declared  in  a  treaty  to  be  signed,  a  red  bull 
or  white  horse  was  used.  The  tray  was  used  to  hold  the  blood  and  the  vessel  the  food. 
The  ears  of  the  bull  were  cut  and  put  in  the  tray,  which  was  held  in  the  hands  of  the 
leader  of  a  confederation.  Hence  the  term  "holding  the  ears  of  a  bull"  means  leadership. 

20  The  first  kings  of  the  Hsia,  Shang,  and  Chou. 

21  The  declaration  is  in  the  form  of  an  oath,  stating  that  if  either  party  should  break 
the  contract  agreed  upon  that  party  should  be  destroyed  by  heaven,  spirits,  and  men. 

22  See  Shih-chi,  "Tzih-k'o  lieh  chuan."    23  See  Shih-Chi,  biography  of  P'ing-yiian  Chun. 
24Ch'ang  Chii,  Hua-yang  \uo-chih.  King  Chao  promised  the  I  tribe  a  pair  of  yellow 

dragons  should  Ch'in  attack  I. 

26  Shih-chi,  "Kung-ch'en  hou  nicn-piao." 


58  Sacrificial  Prayer  and  Agreement 

do  with  it.  The  oath  Tsang  Hung  wrote  to  accompany  the  ceremony  of 
dipping  the  fingers  in  blood  has  enough  righteous  force  to  shatter  the 
clouds;26  the  iron  oath  of  Liu  K'un  [of  the  Chin]  possesses  spirit  so 
subtly  moving  that  it  even  affected  the  sleet  and  frost.27  But  these  oaths 
did  no  good  to  either  the  Han  or  the  Chin :  on  the  contrary,  the  parties 
to  the  agreement  became  enemies.  Therefore  we  know  that  when  sin- 
cerity is  not  at  the  bottom  of  one's  heart,  there  is  no  use  in  agreements. 
The  main  points  to  cover  in  drawing  up  an  agreement  are  these: 
state  the  crisis,  encourage  loyalty  and  filial  piety,  pledge  each  other  to 
share  the  same  fate  of  life  or  death,  pledge  each  other  to  work  together, 
pray  to  the  spirits  to  witness  the  agreement,  invoke  the  nine  heavens 
as  judge,28  establish  sincerity  with  earnestness,  and  express  all  these 
things  with  all  soberness  in  literary  language.  They  are  the  elements 
common  to  all  agreements.  However,  it  is  not  the  language  which  is 
difficult  to  produce;  what  is  difficult  is  to  keep  the  agreement  expressed 
in  that  language.  Let  all  people  coming  afterward  note  that  loyalty  and 
sincerity  are  enough,  and  that  there  is  no  need  to  depend  on  the  spirits. 

The  Tsan  : 
Worship    with    piety    and    conclude    declarations    of    intention    with 

solemnity. 
The  sacrificial  officers  furnish  words  for  these  acts. 
The  attainment  of  sincerity  depends  on  the  attitude  of  reverence, 
And  the  language  must  be  sweet. 

In  later  periods  writers  indulged  in  excessive  ornamentation, 
And  their  words  are  spun  into  tapestries  of  red  and  blue. 
But  to  get  the  spirits  to  come  and  accept  the  sacrifice 
It  is  important  that  one's  conscience  be  clear. 

26  Hou-han  shu,  biography  of  Tsang  Hung.  All  forces  joined  together  against  Tung 
Tso  at  the  end  of  the  Han  dynasty,  and  this  was  an  occasion  for  all  of  them  to  stick 
their  fingers  in  the  blood  of  the  bull.  Tsang  Hung  was  the  one  who  came  forward  to  give 
the  oath  when  nobody  else  seemed  to  dare  to  assume  the  responsibility,  for  it  required  a 
great  deal  of  literary  talent. 

27  The  Chin  was  under  the  threat  of  barbarian  invasion.  Liu  and  Tuan  P'i-ti  swore 
to  come  to  each  other's  assistance  in  defending  the  Chin  against  the  barbarians.  The 
oath  is  quoted  in  1-wen  lei-chii,  chuan  33. 

28  This  phrase  is  quoted  from  the  Li-sao. 


XL  Inscription  and  Exhortation  (The  Ming  and  the  Chen) 


The  Yellow  Emperor  long  ago  carved  sayings  on  his  carriage  and 
desks  to  admonish  himself  lest  he  should  falter;  and  the  Great  Yti  of 
the  Hsia  dynasty  chiseled  sentences  on  drum  and  bell  frames  to  serve 
as  remonstrances.  Ch'eng-t'ang  of  the  Shang  cut  the  "Rule  for  Daily 
Renewal"  on  his  trays  and  basins;1  and  King  Wu  of  the  Chou  wrote 
on  the  doors  and  mats  teachings  that  would  keep  him  vigilant.  The 
Duke  of  Chou  left  on  a  bronze  statue  words  urging  caution  in  speak- 
ing; and  Confucius  made  an  about-face  at  the  warning  of  a  tilted 
vessel.2  The  sages  long  ago  recognized  the  necessity  of  keeping  oneself 
admonished. 

The  term  ming  means  to  name;  to  distinguish  an  article  necessarily 
entails  calling  it  by  name.  To  make  this  appellation  correct  and  assay 
its  connotation,  great  moral  development  is  essential.3  Tsang  Wu- 
chung,  in  his  discussion  of  the  ming^  said,  "They  deal  with  the  virtues 
of  the  Son  of  Heaven,  the  achievements  of  the  lords,  and  the  military 
merits  of  the  ministers."4  The  writing  on  the  tripod  which  the  Hsia 
dynasty  cast  from  the  tribute  bronze  offered  by  the  chiefs  of  the  nine 
districts5  and  the  Chou  inscription  on  the  buckthorn  arrow  presented 
by  the  Su-shen  tribe6  are  examples  of  inscriptions  commemorating 
virtues  of  the  Son  of  Heaven.  The  epigraph  for  Lii  Wang7  on  the 

1  This  rule  exhorts  one  to  renew  oneself,  that  is,  to  improve,  with  the  coming  of  each 
new  day.  See  Li-chi,  "Ta-hsiieh  p'ien." 

2  The  lesson  of  the  tilted  vessel:  when  empty,  it  tilted;  when  filled  to  the  middle,  it 
sat  up  straight;  and  when  full,  it  toppled. 

3  The  name,  as  here  used,  must  not  only  denote  the  article  to  which  it  is  given  but 
also  connote  a  virtue  which  the  name  of  the  article  suggests.  Hence,  "to  name"  actually 
means  to  suggest  a  moral  exhortation  in  an  inscribed  appellation.  For  these  moral 
achievements  are  what  the  name  connotes.  Without  these  connotative  contents  the  name 
cannot  be  considered  as  correct. 

4  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  289/Hsiang  19/4  Tso  fu  2. 

5  The  tribute  was  an  expression  of  appreciation  on  the  part  of  the  nine  chiefs  for 
the  virtue  of  the  Hsia  ruler.  See  ibid.,  182/Hsiian  3/5  Tso. 

6  King  Wu  triumphed  over  the  Shang,  and  the  Su-shen  tribe  came  to  court  with  the 
buckthorn  arrow  as  tribute.  King  Wu  ordered  that  the  good  virtues  of  the  early  kings 
be  commemorated  in  an  inscription  on  the  arrow.  See  Kuo-yii,  "Lu-yu,"  hsia. 

7  Lii  Wang  was  King  Wu's  chief  adviser. 


6o  Inscription  and  Exhortation 

vessel  cast  by  K'un-wu8  and  the  inscription  on  the  conquered  tribe's 
Chung-shan  Fu  tripod9  speak  of  lords'  achievements.  And  Wei  K'o's 
record  of  military  exploits  on  the  Bell  of  Ching10  and  K'ung  K'uei's 
register  of  the  merits  [of  the  ancestors  of  Wei]  on  the  Wei  tripod11 
are  concerned  with  ministers'  military  merits. 

The  bestowal  on  Fei  Lien  of  a  stone  sarcophagus12  and  the  discovery 
of  the  posthumous  title  of  Duke  Ling  [of  Wei]  in  his  burial  ground13 
are  indeed  weird  tales,  dealing  as  they  do  with  inscriptions  on  under- 
ground stone.  And  there  are  also  quite  ridiculous  examples:  King 
Wu-ling  of  the  state  of  Chao  had  footprints  carved  on  the  city  wall 
of  Po-wu,  and  King  Chao  of  the  state  of  Ch'in  ordered  a  chess  game 
made  on  the  top  of  Mount  Hua;  both  were  bent  on  showing  off  to 
posterity  by  these  absurdities.14  After  examining  these  examples,  the 
proper  significance  of  an  inscription  must  have  become  clear  to  us. 

Ch'in  Shih-huang's  inscriptions  on  mountains  are  beautiful  and 
erudite;  although  his  government  was  ruthless,  these  inscriptions  have 
real  literary  brilliance.  Pan  Ku's  epigraph  on  Mount  Yen-jan  and  that 
left  by  Chang  Ch'ang  on  the  slab  at  Hua-yin15  may  be  considered  the 

8  A  great  metallurgist  in  ancient  times. 

9  The  Southern  Huns;  during  the  Later  Han  period,  they  were  brought  under  control 
by  Tou  Hsien,  to  whom  they  presented  this  tripod. 

10  See  Kuo-yii,  "Chin-yu."  The  event  took  place  in  the  fifteenth  year  (?)  of  Duke 
Hsiian  of  Lu.  "Ching"  refers  to  Duke  Ching  of  Chin. 

11  See  Li-chi,  "Chi-t'ung."  Li-chi  yin-te,  25/23. 

12  The  Shih-chi,  chronology  of  Ch'in  State.  Fei  Lien,  a  minister  of  the  Shang  dynasty, 
was  building  an  altar  at  Huo  t'ai-shan  when  a  stone  coffin  was  unearthed,  on  which  was 
found  an  inscription  saying  that  the  coffin  was  given  to  Fei  Lien  for  his  loyalty. 

13  See  Chuangtzu,  "Tse-yang  p'ien,"  and  Chang  Hua's  Po-wu  chih,  "I-wen  p'ien." 

14  Po-wu  is  a  city  in  modern  Ho-pei;  Chao's  footprints  are  said  to  be  three  feet  wide 
and  five  feet  long;  with  the  caption:  "Chu-fu  [the  title  the  king  conferred  upon  himself 
while  still  living]  frequented  this  place."  King  Chao's  chess  game  consisted  of  six  chien 
(I  am  not  quite  sure  what  a  chien  or  a  chu,  a  dictionary  definition  of  chien,  would  be.) 
each  eight  feet  long,  and  twelve  chessmen,  each  eight  inches  tall,  with  the  inscription: 
"King  Chao  often  played  the  game  with  heavenly  deities  at  this  spot."  In  the  case  of 
King  Wu-ling,  we  know  he  made  up  his  own  posthumous  name;  but  in  the  case  of  King 
Chao,  no  such  information  is  available.  From  this  consideration,  the  tale  seems  to  be  a 
later  forgery. 

15  Tou  Hsien,  a  general  of  the  Later  Han,  after  pacifying  the  northern  frontier, 
ascended  Mount  Yen-jan  and  had  slabs  erected  for  the  recording  of  his  military  achieve- 
ments. Pan  Ku  was  responsible  for  the  text  of  the  inscription.  See  Hou-han  shu,  biography 
of  Tou  Hsien.  Chang  Ch'ang's  text  is  found  in  the  Ku- wen-yuan,  chiian  18. 


Inscription  and  Exhortation  61 

best  of  epigraphs.  Ts'ai  Yung's  works  are  characterized  by  a  fullness 
of  feeling,  standing  all  alone  in  all  times.  His  words  on  the  halberd 
of  General  Ch'iao  breathe  the  classical  spirit,  and  his  words  on  the  Chu 
Mu  tripod  are  a  perfect  model  of  stone  inscription.  For  here  he  indulged 
in  that  in  which  he  was  particularly  well-versed.  The  words  of  Ching- 
t'ung  [Feng  Yen]  put  on  various  weapons  follow  the  prosodic  form 
of  wu-mingy16  but  they  deal  with  events  which  are  not  pertinent  to  the 
weapons,  and  furthermore,  they  are  either  too  verbose  or  too  brief, 
never  managing  to  strike  a  happy  medium.  And  Ts'ui  Yin's  weapon 
inscriptions  are  mostly  laudatory;  only  a  few  are  admonitory.  Li  Yu's 
writings  are  limited  in  ideas  and  lacking  in  rhetorical  organization;  he 
mixed  inscriptions  on  the  divine  milfoil  plants  and  tortoise  shells  with 
those  on  games  and  chess,  and  placed  those  on  balance  and  bushel,  im- 
portant in  measurement,  after  those  on  mortars  and  pestles.  Since  he 
did  not  even  take  time  to  distinguish  the  proper  categories  and  relative 
importance  of  the  articles  he  treated,  how  can  we  expect  him  to  have 
paid  attention  to  the  inner  structure  [or  moral  connotations]  of  these 
things  ?  The  nine  precious  weapons  of  Emperor  Wen  of  Wei17  are  sharp, 
and  yet  their  inscriptions  are  blunt.  Chang  Tsai  alone,  in  the  piece  he 
inscribed  at  Chien-ke,18  reveals  a  talent  of  crystal  beauty.  Fleet-footed, 
he  arrived  ahead  of  others,  though  he  had  a  slow  start.  In  inscribing 
this  work  on  the  Min  and  the  Han19  he  indeed  attained  what  was 
appropriate  to  the  genre. 

The  function  of  the  chen,  or  exhortation,  literally  "needle,"  is  to 
attack  sickness  and  prevent  disease  [of  character],  as  the  therapeutic 
puncture  does  in  medicine.  This  form  of  writing  flourished  during  the 
Three  Dynasties.  Only  fragments  of  two  pieces  from  the  Hsia  and 
the  Shang  are  still  extant;  and  in  the  Chou  dynasty,  of  the  "Pai-kuan 
chen,"  or  "Exhortations  to  the  King  by  a  Hundred  Officials"  ordered 
by  Hsin  Chia,20  only  the  "Yu-chen"  or  "Exhortation  by  Hunters"  is  a 
piece  perfect  in  both  form  and  ideas.  By  the  time  of  the  Ch'un-ch'iu 

16  Inscription  on  a  military  weapon.  17  Ts'ao  P'ei. 

18  In  Szechuan,  bordering  on  Shen-hsi.  19  Two  rivers  flowing  through  Szechuan. 

20  Hsin  Chia  was  a  grand  historian  during  the  time  of  King  Wu. 


62  Inscription  and  Exhortation 

period,  the  form  had  declined,  but  its  tradition  was  still  continued. 
Thus  we  have  a  chen  of  Wei  Chiang,  who  warned  his  ruler21  by 
referring  to  the  conduct  of  Hou-i22  and  the  chen  of  the  ruler  of  Ch'u, 
who  counseled  his  people  to  work  hard.23  Since  the  Warring  States 
period,  the  inculcation  of  virtue  has  been  discarded  and  the  recording 
of  achievements  emphasized,  so  that  the  ming  has  taken  the  place  of 
the  chen,  which  is  now  neglected.  But  to  Yang  Hsiung,  who  delved 
into  the  tradition  of  ancient  times,  the  Yu-chen  became  the  model  for 
his  twenty-five  pieces  on  the  minister,  magistrate,  prefect,  and  governor. 
Later  Ts'ui  and  Hu24  filled  the  lacunae  and  completed  what  is  col- 
lectively known  as  the  "Pai-kuan,"  or  the  "One  Hundred  Offices." 
These  pieces  define  the  functions  and  ranks  of  the  hundred  offices, 
like  a  pendant  mirror25  giving  definite  warnings  and  admonitions;  they, 
indeed,  were  written  in  the  purity  of  style  of  ancient  times  [the  Hsia 
and  the  Shang],  and  ascended  to  the  height  attained  by  Hsin  Chia  in 
a  later  period  [the  Chou].  We  do  have  also  P'an  Hsu's  compositions  on 
tallies,  which  are  pertinent  but  shallow,  and  the  piece  by  Wen  Ch'iao, 
which  is  learned  but  overburdened;  Wang  Chi's  work  on  "Kuo-tzu"26 
teems  with  quotations,  but  the  facts  are  unsystematically  arranged; 
while  P'an  Ni's  piece  on  carriages,  though  containing  correct  moral 
principles,  is  full  of  weeds.27  Few  of  these  later  works  are  able  to 
achieve  the  proper  standard.  As  to  Wang  Lang's  chen  on  miscellaneous 
articles,  those  on  napkins  and  shoes  may  have  the  spirit  of  warning, 
but  they  are,  in  fact,  inappropriate.  They  do  conform  to  the  rules  of 
the  chieh,  or  warning28  and  the  ming  or  inscription,  in  that  they  are 

21  The  Duke  of  Chin. 

22  Hou-i  lost  his  kingdom  because  he  loved  hunting,  and  the  Duke  of  Chin  loved 
hunting,  too.  Hence  the  reference  to  Hou-i,  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Yu-chen.  See 
Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  258/Hsiang  4/7  Tso  fu  I. 

23  See  ibid.,  197/Hsiian  12/3  Tso. 

24  Ts'ui  Yin  and  Ts'ui  Yuan;  Hu  Kuang. 

25  A  mirror  used  as  a  pendant,  with  the  function  of  showing  if  one  is  properly 
groomed.  By  extension  it  becomes  a  symbol  for  warning  or  admonition. 

26  The  National  Academy,  of  which  Wang  Chi  was  once  the  chancellor. 

27  Verbose  in  style. 

28  Previously  Liu  Hsieh  used  chieh  as  a  verb,  i.e.,  to  warn,  which  has  affinity  with 
exhortation,  i.e.,  chen.  Apparently  it  is  introduced  here  as  a  synonym  of  chen. 


Inscription  and  Exhortation  63 

terse  and  concerned  only  with  essentials;  but  the  chen  on  water,  fire, 
well,  and  stove  are  loquacious  without  end.  All  this  is  due  to  his  per- 
sonal idiosyncrasy. 

The  chen  is  intended  to  be  recited  at  court,29  while  the  ming  is  to 
be  inscribed  on  vessels.  Though  they  differ  in  name  and  function,  they 
share  a  common  quality  in  their  spirit  of  warning.  The  sole  purpose 
of  the  chen  is  to  prevent  mistakes,  hence  its  language  is  solid  and 
pertinent;  but  the  ming  has  the  additional  function  of  giving  praise, 
hence  its  style  must  be  grand  and  brilliant.  The  matters  selected  for 
treatment  must  be  appropriate  and  clearly  presented;  and  the  language 
used  should  be  simple  and  yet  profound.  In  these  requirements  are 
summed  up  the  main  ideas  of  these  genres.  However,  as  the  pieces  in- 
scribed on  the  arrow  and  the  tripod  of  the  conquered  states30  have  been 
scattered,  the  difference  in  the  uses  of  the  chen  and  the  ming  have 
seldom  been  applied  in  later  times.  It  is  up  to  the  writers  to  judge  for 
themselves  in  selecting  important  subjects. 

The  Tsan: 
The  ming  expresses  the  moral  ideas  implied  in  the  name  of  articles, 
While  the  chen  suggests  moral  principles. 
There  are  some  words  we  may  well  wear  as  our  "inscriptions," 
But  water  can  never  be  used  as  a  mirror  can  [either  to  reflect  truly  or 

to  bear  an  inscription]. 
Hold  fast  to  this  principle  of  truthfulness  and  self-admonishment, 
And  be  reverential  in  word  and  deed. 
Ideas  of  classic  grace  are  naturally  grand, 
And  the  pithy  phrase  is  always  a  thing  of  beauty. 

29  Music  masters  presented  the  chen  at  court.  See  the  Kuo-yu,  "Chou-yii." 

30  See  notes  6  and  9  above. 


XII.  Elegy  and  Stone  Inscription  (The  Lei  and  the  Pei) 

The  Chou  was  a  dynasty  of  great  virtues,  and  ming,  or  inscriptions, 
and  lei,  or  elegy,  were  written  to  commemorate  them.  Those  who  can 
write  an  elegy  on  the  occasion  of  a  death  are  capable  of  being  ministers. 
To  write  an  elegy  is  to  sum  up,  that  is,  to  sum  up  the  virtuous  conduct 
of  the  deceased  and  immortalize  it.  Very  little  is  known  to  us  about  the 
writing  of  elegy  before  and  during  the  Hsia  and  the  Shang.  During 
the  Chou  dynasty  elegies  were  written,  but  they  were  never  written 
for  a  shih.1  Furthermore,  it  was  not  the  practice  for  a  person  inferior 
in  social  status  to  write  an  elegy  for  his  superior,  or  for  a  younger  man 
to  write  an  elegy  for  an  older  one.2  In  the  case  of  the  ruler,  heaven  was 
invoked  to  write  his  elegy.3  To  read  an  elegy  before  the  dead  and  to 
confer  upon  him  a  posthumous  title  is  a  ceremony  of  very  great  im- 
portance. It  was  after  the  battle  of  Ch'eng-ch'iu,  where  the  Duke  of 
Lu  fought  [the  forces  of  the  state  of  Sung],  that  an  elegy  was  first 
written  in  honor  of  a  shih.4  When  Confucius  died,  Duke  Ai  of  Lu 
wrote  the  elegy.  Although  it  is  not  a  work  of  profundity,  in  the  depth 
of  feeling  expressed  it  has  preserved  for  us  the  ancient  tradition  of  this 
form  of  writing.5 

With  the  elegy  written  for  Huitzu  by  his  wife,  the  language  became 
sad  and  the  rhythm  prolonged.6  During  the  Han  dynasty,  elegies  were 
written  in  this  latter  vein.  The  one  by  Yang  Hsiung  for  Empress  Yuan 
tends  towards  verbosity.7  Its  important  lines,  including  the  one  which 
mentions  "Sha-lu,"8  have  been  quoted,  but  Chih  [-yii]  suspected  that 

1  Member  of  the  lowest  rank  in  the  official  hierarchy. 

*Li-chi  yin-te,  7/28.  3  Ibid.,  7/28.  4  Ibid.,  3/17. 

5  The  elegy  is  preserved  in  the  Tso-chuan,  Duke  of  Ai,  sixteenth  year,  Ch'un-ch'iu 
ching-chuan  yin-te,  492/Ai  16/4  Tso.  See  also  Li-chi,  3/107. 

6  Preserved  in  Liu  Hsiang's  Lieh-nii  chuan.  It  may  not  be  authentic.  "Huitzu"  is  the 
posthumous  name  given  to  Chan  Ch'in  by  his  wife.  He  flourished  during  the  Ch'un-ch'iu 
period  and  lived  at  Liu-hsia  in  the  state  of  Lu;  hence  he  was  known  as  Liu  Hsia.  The 
posthumous  name  "Hui"  means  benevolence. 

7  The  empress  was  the  consort  of  Emperor  Yuan,  48-33  B.C.,  and  the  mother  of 
Emperor  Ch'eng,  32-7  B.C.  The  elegy  is  found  in  Ku  wen-yuan,  chuan  20. 

8  Four  lines  of  the  elegy  are  found  in  the  biography  of  Empress  Yuan  in  the  Han-shu 
by  Pan  Ku.  Sha-lu  is  the  name  of  a  mountain  in  Ho-pei. 


Elegy  and  Stone  Inscription  65 

this  quotation  was  the  whole  piece.9  As  a  matter  of  fact,  would  it  be 
possible  to  give  a  full  account  of  the  collected  virtues  of,  and  do  proper 
honor  to,  a  royal  personage  in  four  brief  lines?  Elegies  written  by  Tu 
Tu10  have  achieved  fame  before  the  time  of  the  present  generation. 
But  though  the  piece  for  Wu  [Han]  is  good,  his  other  pieces  are  rather 
weak.  Could  it  be  that  Emperor  Kuang-wu's11  praise  of  him  changed 
people's  evaluation  of  his  works?12  Fu  I's  elegies  are  well-organized 
and  well-proportioned.  And  those  by  Su  Shun13  and  Ts'ui  Yuan  are 
logical  and  clear.  Their  narratives  read  like  biographies,  their  language 
is  beautiful,  and  their  tonal  arrangements  have  a  pleasant  effect.  They 
were  unquestionably  talented  writers  of  the  elegy.  P'an  Yueh,  in  or- 
ganizing his  ideas,  followed  especially  the  example  of  Hsiao-shan  [or 
Su  Shun];  he  is  good  at  expressing  sorrow,  and  creates  fresh  and 
felicitous  expressions  with  ease.  For  this  reason  he  is  looked  upon  by 
people  of  later  dynasties  as  one  who  brightened  the  beauty  of  the  genre. 
Ts'ui  Yin's  elegy  for  Chao  and  Liu  T'ao's  for  Huang14  both  capture 
the  spirit  of  the  genre,  and  their  beauty  lies  in  their  brevity  and  rele- 
vance. Those  of  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  have  achieved  a  great  name, 
but  their  style  is  long-winded  and  drawn  out.  In  the  last  part  of  his 
elegy  for  his  brother,  Emperor  Wen,  for  about  one  hundred  lines  he 
indulged  in  talking  about  himself.  This  is  a  serious  departure  from 
the  ideal  standard. 

The  ministers  of  the  Yin  sang  praises  of  T'ang  to  commemorate  the 
blessings  of  the  black  bird,15  and  the  Chou  historians  chanted  songs  in 
honor  of  King  Wen  to  recount  the  great  achievements  of  Hou-chi.16 

9  Chih-yii,  in  his  Wen-chang  liu-pieh,  made  this  statement,  unaware  of  the  existence 
of  the  complete  piece. 

10  His  biography  is  in  the  Hou-han-shu.         X1  The  first  ruler  of  the  Later  Han. 

12  Tu's  elegy  for  Wu  Han  is  found  in  the  l-wen  lei-chu,  chiian  47. 

13  Biography  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 

14  Biographies  of  both  men  are  in  the  Hou-han-shu,  but  their  works  are  not  contained 
in  them,  nor  are  they  found  elsewhere. 

15  Probably  referring  to  "Hsiian-niao,"  No.  393  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  Hsiian-niao,  a 
bird  of  black  color,  identified  as  a  swallow,  is  supposedly  the  agent  through  whose 
blessings  Shang,  the  ancestor  of  the  Shang  people,  was  born.  The  elegy,  however,  seems 
to  refer  to  "Ch'ang-fa,"  whose  number  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  is  304. 

16  Referring  apparently  to  "Sheng-min,"  No.  245.  Hou-chi  was  the  first  ancestor  of 
the  Chou  people,  and   his  birth   is  described   in   this  poem. 


66  Elegy  and  Stone  Inscription 

The  description  of  the  summed  up  virtues  and  merits  of  ancestors  is 
indeed  the  principle  followed  by  the  Ancient  Poets  in  the  writing  of 
the  lei. 

Such  a  piece  of  writing,  in  expressing  mournful  feelings,  develops 
according  to  the  circumstances  to  which  these  feelings  are  the  re- 
sponses. Fu  I's  elegy  written  for  Pei-hai17  begins:  "The  light  of  the 
sun  was  darkened,  and  the  whole  Huai  district  was  blanketed  in  rain." 
This  expression  of  feeling  at  the  beginning  of  the  elegy  became  a 
model  for  later  writers.  And  his  imitators  were  often  attracted  to  him 
by  his  cleverness. 

With  respect  to  its  organization,  the  elegy  consists  of  a  selection  of 
the  sayings  and  an  account  of  the  life  of  the  deceased.  It  is  biographical 
in  form,  and  the  language  it  adopts  is  that  of  the  sung,  or  ode,  be- 
ginning in  glory  and  ending  in  sorrow.  In  its  portrayal  of  the  deceased 
as  a  man,  it  brings  him  aflectingly  before  us;  and  in  expressing  grief, 
its  mournful  tune  suggests  profound  sorrow.  This  is  the  main  idea 
of  the  elegy. 

Pei,  or  stone  monument,  means  pei,  or  walled  terrace.  Emperors  and 
kings  of  ancient  times  erected  pei,  or  stone  monuments,  on  which  to 
keep  records  of  their  reigns,  or  as  places  to  render  sacrifices  to  heaven 
and  earth,  and  erected  pei,  or  walled  terraces,  on  the  mountains.  Because 
of  this  homophone  they  called  the  walled  terrace  pei.18  The  record  of 
King  Mu  of  the  Chou  inscribed  on  the  stone  of  Yen-shan  gives  us  an 
inkling  of  the  function  of  the  pei  in  ancient  times. 

Then  there  were  the  monuments  in  ancestral  temples,  erected  [in 
the  central  courtyard]  between  the  two  rows  of  side  rooms;  these 
monuments  served  merely  as  hitching  posts  for  sacrificial  animals,  and 
were  not  used  at  first  for  inscriptions  recording  merits  and  achieve- 
ments. When  in  later  times  bronze  articles  became  scarce,19  stone 
monuments  were  used  instead  of  bronze;  both  signify  the  immortal. 

17  Prince  Ching.  Fragments  of  this  piece  are  found  in  Ku  wen-yuan. 

18  Pei  meaning  a  stone  monument,  the  sense  in  which  the  term  in  the  title  is  used, 
and  pei  meaning  a  terrace  signify  each  other  because  of  their  homophone.  This  principle 
of  linking  semantically  two  homophonous  characters  is  often  resorted  to  by  scholars  for 
the  explanation  of  many  characters  found  in  the  ancient  Classics. 

19  Bronze  was  generally  used  for  the  purpose  of  recording  merits  and  achievements. 


Elegy  and  Stone  Inscription  6y 

[Later,  monuments  were  also  erected  over  the  tombs.]  From  the  monu- 
ments erected  in  the  temples  to  those  erected  over  the  tombs,  all  had 
somewhat  the  significance  of  the  piling  up  of  earth  to  build  a  founda- 
tion.20 

After  the  time  of  the  Later  Han,  pei  and  chieh  rose  like  clouds.21 
But  of  all  the  carvings  from  the  blades  of  these  later  talents  those  by 
Ts'ai  Yung  stand  out  without  peer.  Among  the  stone  inscriptions  for 
which  he  was  responsible,  the  "Yang  Tz'u  Pei,"  or  "Monument  to 
Yang  Tz'u,"  is  marked  by  strong  character  and  classic  beauty,  the  two 
pieces  on  Ch'en  [T'ai-ch'iu]  and  Kuo  [Yu-tao]  are  completely  free 
from  any  flattery,  and  those  on  Chou  [Hsieh]  and  Hu  [Kuang],  pure 
and  balanced.  In  recounting  events,  they  are  comprehensive  and  yet 
brief  and  to  the  point;  and  in  rhetoric,  they  are  graceful  and  smooth. 
We  find  in  them  an  inexhaustible  flow  of  translucent  phrases,  and  also 
brilliant  ideas  which  are  unique.  All  these  are  a  result  of  a  talent  which 
is  natural  and  spontaneous.22 

The  works  of  K'ung  Yung  were  modeled  after  those  of  Po-chieh 
[or  Ts'ai  Yung].  The  two  pieces  on  Chang  [Chien]  and  Ch'en,23 
clear-cut  and  beautifully  phrased,  may  be  considered  as  being  in  the 
same  class  as  those  by  Ts'ai. 

Sun  Ch'o24  intended  his  works  for  pei  and  lei.  But  his  pieces  on 
Wen  [Ch'iao],  Wang  [Tao],  Hsi  [Chien],  and  Yii  [Liang]25  are 
wordy  and  without  order.  His  only  well-written  piece  is  the  one  on 
Huan  I.26 

20  The  "piling  up  of  earth  to  build  a  foundation,"  an  activity  common  to  the  erection 
of  all  monuments,  is  here  used  to  signify  their  common  quality — an  indication  of 
immortality. 

21  Both  pei  and  chieh  mean  stone  slabs  or  monuments.  A  square  stone  slab  is  called 
a  pei,  and  a  round  stone  is  called  chieh.  See  Wen-t'i  t'ung-shih.  See  also  Hou-han-shu, 
commentary  in  the  biography  of  Tou  Hsien. 

22  For  Ts'ai's  works,  see  Ts'ai  Chting-lang  chi.  Ts'ai's  dates  are  A.D.  132-192. 

23  Fragments  of  K'ung's  inscription  on  Chang  are  preserved  in  Ch'iian  hou-han  wen, 
chiian  83.  The  one  on  Ch'en  is  lost. 

24  Flourishing  during  the  fourth  century. 

25  All  of  the  Eastern  Chin. 

26  Fragments  of  the  pieces  on  Wang  and  Hsi  are  found  in  I- wen  lei-chii,  chiian  45, 
and  of  that  on  Yii  in  chiian  47.  The  piece  on  Huan  I,  however,  has  completely  disap- 
peared. 


68  Elegy  and  Stone  Inscription 

The  writing  of  the  pei  requires  the  talent  of  a  historian.  In  organiza- 
tion it  is  biographical,  and  its  language  is  that  of  the  ming.  From  its 
description  of  great  virtues  the  reader  should  be  able  to  visualize  the 
benign  countenance  taking  shape  in  the  subtle  breezes;  and  in  its 
account  of  a  successful  life  he  should  be  able  to  perceive  the  glory  of 
the  craggy  height  which  the  one  commemorated  had  attained.  In  these 
we  have  the  substantial  features  of  the  pei. 

A  stone  monument  is  in  fact  an  inscribed  article,  and  the  inscription 
is  the  literary  pattern  of  the  monument.  To  select  a  name  for  the  article 
in  accord  with  its  nature  was  an  activity  prior  to  that  of  composing  the 
elegy.  Therefore,  all  writings  inscribed  on  stone  to  honor  merits  are 
included  in  the  genre  of  ming,  or  inscription,  and  those  of  them  which 
give  accounts  of  the  deceased  on  upright  stone  slabs  are  classified 
under  lei,  or  elegy. 

The  Tsan: 

To  give  an  account  of  facts  and  recapture  what  has  passed  into  noth- 
ingness 

Are  reasons  for  the  creation  of  the  lei  and  the  pei. 

In  them,  virtues  are  inscribed  and  life  commemorated 

In  clusters  of  colorful  literary  modes. 

The  style  in  which  the  deceased  is  described  gives  one  the  feeling  of 
seeing  him  in  person, 

And  listening  to  its  language  is  like  listening  to  mournful  sobs. 

The  flower  incised  in  stone  and  ink 

Will  not  fade  because  of  the  collapse  of  the  shadow  [physical  body]. 


XIII.  Lament  and  Condolence  (The  Ai  and  the  Tiao) 


According  to  the  rule  of  conferring  posthumous  titles,  one  who  dies 
young  is  given  the  title  of  ai,  or  lamented.  Ai,  or  to  lament,  means  /,  or 


Lament  and  Condolence  69 

to  adhere;  sorrows  adhere  to  the  heart;  hence  the  term  at,  or  to 
lament,  or  simply  sorrow.  One  gives  vent  to  one's  sorrows  by  means 
of  writing,  which  is  tearless  lamentation.  Therefore  this  form  of  writing 
does  not  apply  to  the  death  of  older  people,  but  always  to  those  who 
meet  an  untimely  death.1 

Long  ago,  three  good  generals  were  buried  with  King  Mu  of  Ch'in 
as  sacrifices,  not  having  been  allowed  to  be  ransomed  even  by  the  lives 
of  a  hundred;  these  deaths  may  be  considered  as  untimely  and  unjust. 
The  poem  "Huang-niao"  sings  its  grief  for  them.  Is  this  not  the  example 
of  lament  from  the  Ancient  Poets  themselves?2  At  the  time  when 
Emperor  Wu  of  the  Han  [140-87  B.C.]  sacrificed  to  heaven  and  earth, 
Huo  Tzu-hou3  suddenly  died.  The  emperor  expressed  his  grief  in  a 
poem  which  may  also  be  included  in  the  genre  of  lament.  It  was  the 
lamentation  of  Ts'ui  Yuan  for  Prince  Ju-nan4  of  the  Later  Han  which 
gave  the  genre  a  new  form.  But  in  the  violence  of  its  onset  upon  the 
gate  of  the  realm  of  ghosts,  its  language  becomes  grotesque  and  un- 
cultured; and  in  its  references  to  dragons  and  cloud-riding,  it  may 
succeed  in  suggesting  a  desire  for  immortality,  but  it  entirely  lacks 
the  emotion  of  sorrow.  The  last  five  stanzas  are  in  five-word  form, 
the  style  of  folk  songs,  and  are  more  or  less  moulded  after  the  pattern 
set  up  by  Emperor  Wu. 

Both  Su  Shun  and  Chang  Sheng  also  wrote  lament.  Though  they 
began  to  see  its  subtle  flowers,  they  had  yet  to  penetrate  to  the  core  of 
its  fruit.  Of  all  the  lament  writers  during  the  Chien-an  period  [196- 
220],  only  the  work  of  Wei-ch'ang  [or  Hsu  Kan]  may  be  considered 
good.  His  "Hsing-nii,"  or  "Lamentation  for  a  Daughter,"  has  oc- 
casional bursts  of  real  feeling.  Then  came  P'an  Yiieh,  whose  laments 
were  patterned  after  the  beauty  of  Hsu's  style.  With  his  clear  thought, 
his  flexible  language,  his  deep  sentiments  and  profound  sorrows;  with 
his  account  of  events  reading  like  a  biography,  his  composition  in  the 

1  Literally,  yao  and  hun,  meaning  "dying  young"  and  "dying  an  infant  less  than 
three  months  old,"  respectively. 

2  See  Mao-shih  yin-te,  27/131. 

3  Huo  Shan,  the  son  of  Huo  Ch'ii-pin,  a  great  general.  4  Unidentifiable. 


70  Lament  and  Condolence 

spirit  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  and  his  four-word  pattern,  short  and 
rhythmic,  never  a  line  loose  or  sluggish,  he  was  able  to  state  his  ideas 
simply  in  words  that  are  gentle,  and  to  grace  an  old  form  with  a  fresh 
interest.  His  "Chin-lu"  and  "Tse-lan"  are  without  heir.5 

In  general,  the  main  things  to  consider  in  a  lament  are,  on  the  one 
hand,  sorrowful  feelings  and,  on  the  other,  a  language  capable  of  ex- 
pressing love  and  regret.  The  dead  was  young  and  had  not  had  a 
chance  to  establish  his  virtue;  hence,  in  commending  him,  one  does 
not  go  beyond  speaking  of  him  as  intelligent  and  bright;  since  he  was 
weak  and  unable  to  shoulder  any  responsibility,  one  mourns  for  the 
loss  of  his  physical  form.  When  the  composition  springs  from  a  heart 
full  of  grief,  it  will  be  fine;  but  if  one  manipulates  one's  heart  to  con- 
form with  literary  expressions,  the  piece  must  be  characterized  by 
excess.  An  excessively  ornate  piece  may  contain  beautiful  expressions, 
but  it  is  not  the  right  vehicle  for  expressing  sorrow.  The  important 
thing  in  writing  a  lament  is  that  genuine  feeling  be  the  basis  of  one's 
mournful  tone  and  that  the  expression  be  moving  enough  to  bring 
forth  one's  tears. 

The  term  tiao,  or  to  condole,  means  chih,  or  to  arrive.  A  line  in  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry  runs: 

"Shen  chih  tiao  i,"  meaning  "The  Spirits  have  arrived."6 

The  occasion  on  which  a  posthumous  title  is  being  fixed  upon  a  man 
of  virtue  who  has  lived  out  his  natural  term  is  a  time  of  extreme  im- 
portance, an  occasion  full  of  sorrow.  Therefore  the  arrival  of  guests 
to  condole  with  the  bereaved  is  termed  chih-tao.  But  when  a  death  is 
caused  by  crushing  or  drowning,  an  event  contrary  to  the  normal 
course,  no  condolence  is  given.7  When  Sung  suffered  from  flood  and 

5  "Chin-lu"  mourning  a  son,  and  "Tse-lan"  a  girl.  The  second  piece  was  written  for 
his  friend's  wife,  whose  daughter  died  when  she  was  three. 

6  "T'ien-pao"  in  the  Boof{  of  Poetry,  Mao-shih  yin-te,  35/166/5.  Tiao  is  a  modern 
pronunciation.  According  to  Shuo-wen,  it  should  be  pronounced  ft",  and  according  to 
Karlgren,  tiog,  which  is  phonetically  linked  to  tao,  the  ancient  pronunciation  of  which 
is  tog,  meaning  to  arrive.  As  tao  and  chih  are  semantically  linked,  ft'  and  chih  become 
synonyms. 

7  See  "T'an-kung,"  shang,  in  the  Li-chi  for  the  three  conditions  in  which  no  condolence 
is  to  be  offered,  i.e.,  no  guests  are  to  come.  Li-chi  yin-te,  3/25. 


Lament  and  Condolence  71 

Cheng  from  fire,  envoys  from  other  states  came  to  express  their  sym- 
pathy; for  both  when  calamities  fall  upon  a  state  and  when  people 
die,  condolences  are  in  order.8  When  Chin  built  Ssu-ch'i  terrace  and 
Ch'i  attacked  Yen,  Shih  Chao  and  Su  Ch'in  offered  condolences  im- 
mediately after  expressing  their  congratulations.9  For  whether  it  was 
the  oppression  of  the  people  [as  in  Chin's  building  of  the  Ssu-ch'i 
terrace]  or  the  provocation  of  an  enemy  state  [as  in  Ch'i's  attack  upon 
Yen  during  the  latter's  mourning  period],  both  were  ways  leading  to 
destruction.  All  these  cases  were  fit  occasions  for  offering  condolence. 

Some  people  lose  their  lives  because,  while  occupying  high  positions, 
they  are  arrogant;  some  lead  perverse  lives  because  they  are  impatient 
and  filled  with  resentment;  some  have  great  ambitions  and  yet  are 
born  out  of  their  times;  and  some  possess  talents  but  find  themselves 
burdened  with  too  many  distractions.  All  expressions  imparting  sym- 
pathy to  the  spirits  of  people  like  these  are  designated  tiao. 

When  Chia  I  floated  down  the  River  Hsiang,10  full  of  resentment, 
he  wrote  to  condole  with  the  spirit  of  Ch'ii  Yuan.  This  piece  is  perfect 
in  style  and  clear  in  its  narrative.  Its  language  is  pure  and  its  thought 
sad.  It  is  indeed  an  outstanding  work  of  its  kind.11  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang- 
ju's  expression  of  sympathy  to  Erh-shih12  is  entirely  a  specimen  of  /&,13 
although  Huan  T'an  considered  it  full  of  mournful  feeling,  causing 
the  reader  to  heave  a  sympathetic  sigh.  Its  last  section  is  particularly 

8  For  the  Sung  flood,  see  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  59/Chuang  11/3  Tso;  and 
for  the  Cheng  fire,  see  ibid.,  394 /Chao  2  Tso. 

9  The  building  of  Ssu-ch'i  terrace,  while  an  occasion  for  celebration,  was  considered 
a  fit  subject  for  condolence  by  Shih  Chao,  who  accompanied  the  Earl  of  Cheng  to  Chin 
for  that  occasion,  because  such  construction  served  no  useful  purpose,  but  added  to  the 
burden  of  the  people.  See  Tso-chuan,  Duke  Chao,  the  eighth  year,  or  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching- 
chuan  yin-te,  368/Chao  8/3  Tso.  Ch'i  attacked  Yen  when  the  latter  had  lost  its  king 
and  the  new  king,  I,  had  just  been  inaugurated.  As  Yen  was  in  no  position  to  resist, 
Ch'i  took  ten  cities.  While  this  expansion  of  territory  on  the  part  of  Ch'i  was  an 
occasion  for  congratulations,  it  also  revealed  the  ruthless  nature  of  the  ruler  of  Ch'i, 
which  could  prove  his  own  downfall.  Therefore,  Su  Ch'in  offered  condolences  immedi- 
ately after  having  expressed  congratulations.  See  Chan-hjuo  ts'e,  "Yen-ts'e." 

10  Ch'ii  Yuan  had  drowned  himself  in  the  River  Hsiang  in  Hunan. 

11  Chia  I,  like  Ch'ii  Yuan,  was  alienated  from  his  ruler  because  of  slanderous  syco- 
phants. In  this  condolence  he  was  in  fact  giving  vent  to  his  own  resentment. 

12  The  second  emperor  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty. 

13  See  Chapter  VIII. 


72  Lament  and  Condolence 

pertinent,  for  it  is  concise  and  capable  of  evoking  sad  thoughts.  As 
to  the  condolence  offered  by  Yang  Hsiung  to  Ch'ii  Yuan,  it  was  a  work 
of  great  labor  but  little  merit.  Yang  was  deeply  intent  on  reversing  the 
point  of  view  found  in  the  Li-sao;  and  for  this  reason  his  work  is 
characterized  by  clumsy  expressions  and  uncouth  rhyme.  Both  Pan 
Piao14  and  Ts'ai  Yung  were  proficient  in  the  manipulation  of  words; 
however,  they  followed  Chia  I  as  shadows  and  can  hardly  be  consid- 
ered his  equals.  Then  there  are  the  condolences  to  [Po-]i  and  [Shu-] 
ch'i15  written  by  Hu  [Kuang],  Yuan  [Yii],  and  Chung-hsiian  [or 
Wang  Ts'an].  Those  by  Hu  and  Yuan  are  all  praises  and  no  blame; 
the  one  by  Chung-hsiian,  however,  expertly  criticized  them.16  Hu  and 
Yuan  praised  Po-i  and  Shu-ch'i  for  their  integrity,  while  Wang  Ts'an 
regretted  their  narrow-mindedness;  each  was  expressing  his  personal 
view.  Ni  Heng's17  expression  of  sympathy  to  P'ing-tzu  [or  Chang 
Heng],18  although  elegant  and  decorative,  is  light  and  pure;  and  that 
offered  by  Lu  Chi19  to  Wei  Wu  [or  Ts'ao  Ts'ao]  has  an  expertly  writ- 
ten preface,  but  a  wordy  text.  None  besides  these  cited  here  is  of  any 
consequence. 

TiaOy  or  condolence,  although  in  use  in  ancient  times,  was  adorned 
with  beautiful  language  only  in  later  times;  indeed,  when  ornamented 
unduly  and  slowed  in  tempo,  it  becomes  fu.  To  write  condolence  prop- 
erly, one  should  have  correct  ideas,  in  conformity  with  the  nature 
of  the  case;  one  should  bring  to  light  the  virtues  of  the  deceased  and 
block  the  tendency  to  indulge  in  what  is  perverse;  one  should  carefully 
consider   what  to  praise  and  what  to  censure;   and  one's  language 

"A.D.  3-54. 

15  Two  brothers  of  the  Shang  dynasty  who  signified  their  refusal  to  acknowledge 
the  sovereign  power  of  the  Chou  by  declining  to  eat  Chou  grains.  They  removed  them- 
selves to  the  foot  of  Mount  Shou-yang,  feeding  on  weeds.  When  reminded  that  even 
weeds  belonged  to  the  Chou  dynasty,  they  starved  themselves  to  death.  They  are  known 
in  Chinese  history  as  examples  of  loyalty  and  integrity. 

16  Wang  Ts'an  served  under  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  whose  intention  to  usurp  the  throne  at  the 
end  of  the  Han  dynasty  was  evident,  though  it  was  his  son,  Ts'ao  P'ei,  who  finally  took 
the  throne.  It  was  natural  for  him  to  criticize  Po-i  and  Shu-ch'i,  who  failed  to  see  the 
effect  of  the  revolution  of  King  Wu  in  exterminating  the  ruthless  government  of  the 
last  ruler  of  the  Shang  dynasty. 

17  173-198.  18  78-139.  10  261-303. 


Miscellaneous  Writings  73 

should  be  sad  and  yet  accurate.  Then,  no  one  can  deny  one  the  ability 
to  write  in  perfect  form. 

The  Tsan: 
The  Ai  grieves 
For  those  who  die  young; 
Sprouting  grain  that  fails  to  flower 
Has  since  old  times  been  mourned.20 
But  even  a  man  of  comprehensive  talents 
Has  often  lost  his  bearings  in  this  form  and  failed  to  put  it  under 

control.21 
What  is  worthy  of  being  mourned  one  thousand  years  later 
Is  here  clothed  in  words. 


XIV.  Miscellaneous  Writings 


The  works  of  men  of  intellect  and  wide  learning  are  characterized  by 
colorful  expressions  which  are  brought  to  life  by  their  vigorous  spirits. 
Rich  in  literary  ideas,  these  men  bring  forth  productions  that  are  always 
fresh  and  new.  Sung  Yii,  a  man  of  talent,  was  often  subject  to  the 
ridicule  of  the  vulgar.  So  he  wrote  tui-wen>  to  let  out  his  feelings.  It 
was  due  to  his  vigorous  spirit  that  he  was  able  in  his  writing  to  soar 
with  absolute  freedom  in  the  boundless  expanse  of  the  universe.1  And 
Mei  Sheng,  the  master  of  exquisite  phraseology,  first  wrote  "Ch'i-fa,"2 
whose  language  is  as  rich  as  the  patterns  of  clouds  and  whose  beauty 

20  See  the  Analects,  "Tzu-han,"  Lun-yii  yin-te,  17/9/22,  where  Confucius  used  this 
metaphor  to  illustrate  the  untimely  death  of  Yen  Hui,  his  most  beloved  disciple,  whose 
death  Confucius  deeply  mourned. 

21  This  refers  to  the  fact  that  with  over-adornment  and  slow-moving  rhythm,  tiao — 
or  lamentation — becomes  /«. 

1  Sung  Yii  flourished  in  the  third  century  B.C.  Tui-wen,  literally  "answering  ques- 
tions," is  a  form  of  writing.  His  "Tui  Ch'u-wang  wen"  (Answer  to  the  question  of 
the  king  of  Ch'u)  is  in  Hsiao  T'ung's  Wen-hsuan. 

2  Mei  Sheng  died  in  141  B.C.  "Ch'i-fa"  literally  means  seven  shots,  that  is,  to  arouse 


74  Miscellaneous  Writings 

surprises  us  like  gusts  of  wind.  In  this  piece  of  ch'i,  Mei  first  touches 
on  sensual  pleasures  and  desires;  he  begins  with  the  perverse,  but  con- 
cludes with  the  proper;  his  purpose  was  to  give  warning  to  one  who 
was  brought  up  in  ease.  Yang  Hsiung,  contemplating  in  the  [T'ien-lu] 
ko,3  and  deeply  occupied  in  writing,  collected  familiar  words  and 
trivial  phrases  to  form  lien-chu4  whose  language,  though  frivolous, 
is  bright  and  smooth.  These  three  [tui-wen,  ch'i,  and  lien-chu]  are  in 
fact  branches  of  literature,  inferior  pieces  produced  in  times  of  leisure. 
Once  tui-wen  was  created,  Tung-fang  So  took  it  and  expanded  it, 
giving  it  the  title  "K'e-nan,"  or  "Objections  by  a  guest  or  an  opposition 
party."  By  citing  cases  from  the  past,  he  explained  away  his  own 
frustrations.  The  work  is  clear  and  logical.  Yang  Hsiung  wrote  "Chieh- 
ch'ao,"5  in  a  vein  which  contains  a  great  deal  of  humor.  He  doubles 
back  and  forth,  trying  to  explain  away  his  failure  in  life,  and  does  so 
with  moderate  success.  We  have  also  Pan  Ku's  "Pin-hsi,"  containing 
flowers  of  wonderful  colors;  Ts'ui  Yin's  "Ta-chih,"  displaying  a  lan- 
guage of  classical  elegance;  Chang  Heng's  "Ying-wen,"  close-knit  and 
graceful;  Ts'ui  Shih's  "Ta-chi,"  well  ordered  although  slightly  crude; 
Ts'ai  Yung's  "Hsi-hui,"  profound  in  thought  and  brilliant  in  expres- 
sions; and  Ching-ch'un's  [or  Kuo  P'u's]  "K'e-ao,"  overflowing  with 
feeling  and  rich  in  colors.  Though  these  writers  followed  one  an- 
other's example,  their  works  may  all  be  considered  great.  On  the  other 
hand,  although  the  "K'e-wen"  of  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  may 
contain  wonderful  expressions,  it  is  rather  loose  in  reasoning;  and 
Yii  K'ai's  "K'e-tzu"  has  ideas  in  abundance,  but  is  weak  in  literary 
expression.  Writings  of  this  quality  are  numerous,  and  none  is  worthy 

one  to  action  by  seven  stimulating  cases.  In  the  present  piece,  Mei  Sheng  tried  to 
stimulate  the  heir  apparent  to  actions  appropriate  to  his  status.  The  origin  of  this 
particular  style  is  a  moot  question.  But  many  scholars  since  the  time  of  Han  had 
employed  it  as  a  vehicle.  It  is  known  as  ch'i,  or  "seven." 

3  A  royal  library  of  the  Early  Han,  built  by  Hsiao  Ho,  the  first  prime  minister  of  the 
Han  dynasty. 

4  Lien-chu  means  "continuous  string  of  pearls."  A  piece  of  writing  in  which  phrases 
and  ideas  are  threaded  together  like  pearls  on  a  string  is  given  this  name.  In  his  biog- 
raphy in  the  Han-shu,  Yang  is  said  to  have  been  an  editor  in  the  royal  library. 

5  "Chieh-ch'ao,"  literally,  to  explain  away  people's  ridicule,  is  faithfully  patterned 
after  Tung-fang  So's  "K'e-nan,"  although  in  it  he  spoke  ill  of  Tung-fang's  character. 


Miscellaneous  Writings  75 

of  our  attention.  For  the  purpose  of  this  type  of  writing  is  to  give 
vent  to  one's  frustrated  feelings.  If  one  finds  himself  in  adversity,  he 
will  conquer  his  disappointment  by  dwelling  on  the  principle  of  life; 
if  one  finds  himself  at  odds  with  his  times,  he  will  console  himself 
by  cultivating  peace  of  mind.  One  always  maintains  a  frame  of  mind 
both  deep  and  lofty,  and  expresses  it  in  the  colorful  patterns  of  a 
unicorn  or  a  phoenix.  These  are  the  fundamentals  in  the  writing  of 
this  literary  form. 

Since  the  writing  of  "Ch'i-fa,"  many  have  followed  in  Mei's  footsteps. 
A  look  at  this  initial  attempt  of  Mei's  will  convince  us  that  it  is  truly 
outstanding,  indeed  a  work  of  great  beauty.  We  have  Fu  I's  "Ch'i-chi," 
which  exhibits  the  art  of  combining  the  pure  and  the  pertinent;  Ts'ui 
Yin's  "Ch'i-i,"  which  has  contrived  to  enter  the  realm  of  learning  and 
grace;  the  "Ch'i-pien"  of  Chang  Heng,  which  abounds  in  variegated 
figures;  the  "Ch'i-su"  of  Ts'ui  Yuan,  in  which  moral  principles  find 
their  place;  Ch'en-ssu's  [or  Ts'ao  Chih's]  "Ch'i-ch'i,"  whose  beauty 
lies  in  its  grandeur  and  vigor;  and  Chung-hsuan's  [or  Wang  Ts'an's] 
"Ch'i-hsi,"  which  handles  facts  and  their  raison  d'etre  with  clarity. 
Between  the  "Ch'i-shuo"  of  Huan  Lin  and  the  "Ch'i-feng"  of  Tso  Ssu, 
there  were  more  than  ten  writers  who  attached  themselves  to  them 
like  branches  or  like  shadows.  Some  of  their  works  are  rich  in  literary 
patterns  but  weak  in  ideas,  while  others  expound  moral  principles 
in  all  their  purity  but  are  impure  in  language.  In  general,  they  all 
describe  palaces  and  hunting,  and  in  grand  style.  They  are  concerned 
with  outlandish  costumes  and  exotic  wood,  describing  with  extreme 
dexterity  heart-enchanting  songs  and  women.  Their  delightful  con- 
ceptions stir  one  to  the  bone  and  marrow,  and  their  bewitching 
phrases  captivate  the  soul.  Although  they  begin  with  the  lustful,  they 
conclude  with  what  is  right.  But  for  every  person  to  whom  they  may 
have  succeeded  in  bringing  the  moral  lesson  home  by  means  of  satirical 
metaphors,  there  are  hundreds  who  are  encouraged  to  lead  licentious 
lives,  and  are  unable  to  return  to  simplicity.  It  was  for  this  reason  that 
Yang  Hsiung  ridiculed  the  idea  of  beginning  with  the  lustful  notes 


y6  Miscellaneous  Writings 

of  Cheng  and  Wei,  and  striking  up  the  refined  music  only  at  the  end 
of  the  singing.6  The  only  piece  that  speaks  of  ancient  worthies,  basing 
its  thought  on  Confucian  principles,  is  the  "Ch'i-su"  [by  Ts'ui  Yuan] ; 
although  it  is  not  outstanding  in  its  literary  quality,  the  ideas  it  con- 
tains are  really  lofty  and  profound. 

Many  writers  have  also  imitated  the  lien-chu.  Tu  Tu,  Chia  K'uei, 
Liu  Chen,  P'an  Hsu,  and  their  group  intended  to  make  strings  of 
pearls,  but  only  succeeded  in  stringing  fish  eyes.7  They  may  be  com- 
pared to  the  crawling  of  the  youth  from  Shou-ling,  a  far  cry  from  the 
gait  of  Han-tan  which  he  had  set  out  to  acquire.8  [Their  act  of  imi- 
tation is  as  ugly  as  that  of]  the  homely  neighbor  woman  who  held 
her  hands  over  her  heart  in  imitation  of  the  beautiful  Hsi-shih,  [with 
a  grimace  that  created  an  effect]  totally  different  from  that  of  Hsi-shih's 
knitted  brows.9  But  Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi]  alone,  through  careful 
consideration,  brought  to  the  form  new  ideas  couched  in  swift-moving 
language,  and  extended  its  scope  by  neat  organization  and  firm  sen- 
tence structure.  Need  he  indeed  envy  the  four-inch  pearl  of  Chu 
Chung?10  It  is  easy  to  be  perfect  in  writing  short  literary  pieces,  and 
easy  too  to  make  one's  thoughts  presentable  when  they  are  not  formed 
in  haste.  Any  piece  which  is  so  written  as  to  have  clear  ideas  and  neat 
expressions,  coherent  narrative,  and  melodious  sounds  which  always 
ring  clear-cut  and  clean,  is  worthy  of  the  name  chu,  or  pearl. 

Since  the  Han  many  terms  have  been  employed  to  designate  mis- 
cellaneous writings.  These  are:  tien,11  or  important  documents;  fao,12 

6  See  his  biography  in  the  Han-shu. 

7  A  figure  connoting  falsehood,  for  fish  eyes  look  like  pearls  but  are  not. 

8  A  certain  youth  from  Shou-ling,  in  the  state  of  Yen  (modern  Peking),  came  to 
Han-tan,  the  capital  of  the  state  of  Chao  (in  modern  Ho-pei),  to  learn  the  Han-tan  gait. 
But  before  he  succeeded  in  his  study,  he  lost  all  he  had  known.  Hence  he  had  to  crawl 
back  to  Shou-ling.  The  figure  is  found  in  the  Chuangtzu  {Chuangtzu  yin-te,  45/17/79)* 
and  ridicules  the  folly  of  an  imitation  of  others  which  results  in  the  loss  of  one's  own 
originality. 

9  Another  reference  from  the  Chuangtzu,  "T'ien-yun"  (38/14/42),  where  it  is  said 
that  long  ago  Hsi-shih,  a  great  beauty,  was  afflicted  with  a  bad  heart.  In  her  pain,  she 
held  her  hands  over  her  heart  and  knitted  her  brows.  An  ugly  neighbor,  seeing  that 
she  was  very  beautiful  in  such  a  posture,  tried  to  imitate  her. 

10  See  Lieh-hsien  chuan,  by  Liu  Hsiang  of  the  Early  Han. 

11  Originated  in  the  "Yao-tien"  and  "Shun-tien"  of  the  Book  of  History. 

12  Also  originated  in  the  Boo\  of  History. 


Miscellaneous  Writings  77 

or  to  inform;  shih,13  or  to  take  an  oath,  or  military  proclamation; 
wen?*  or  to  inquire;  Ian,15  or  to  peruse;  lueh,  or  a  precis;  p'ien,  or  a 
piece  of  composition,  or  simply  a  book;  chang,  or  a  chapter;  ch'ti,  or 
a  ditty;  tsao,  or  a  piece  of  instrumental  music;  lung,  or  a  short  song; 
yin,  or  a  prelude;  yin,  or  a  sad  chanting  [to  be  distinguished  from  the 
previous  yin];  feng,  or  a  satirical  writing;  yao,  or  a  folk  song  sung 
without  instrumental  accompaniment;  and  yung,  or  a  song.  These 
different  names  may  all  be  classified  together  under  the  category  of 
miscellaneous  writings.  But  if  we  distinguish  among  them  with  respect 
to  their  meanings,  each  may  be  included  in  its  appropriate  group.16 
And  since  each  has  a  logical  place,  we  shall  not  deal  with  them  here 
out  of  their  proper  contexts. 

The  Tsan: 
Great  were  the  earlier  scholars, 
Men  of  solid  learning  and  overflowing  talents. 
Their  surplus  energy  they  devoted  to  sheer  literary  virtuosity,17 
Dashing  off  light,  beautiful  phrases,  showing  off  their  cleverness. 
These  display  themselves  in  clusters  like  branches, 
Twinkling  as  if  they  were  Orion  or  the  Pleiades. 
But  those  who  tried  to  imitate  the  "brow-knitting" 
Succeeded  only  in  unsettling  their  own  minds. 

13  Also  originated  in  the  Boo\  of  History. 

14  Originated  during  the  Han  time. 

15  It  is  found  in  the  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  which  is  also  known  as  Lii-lan,  that  which 
is  perused  by  Master  Lii. 

16  For  example:  tien  may  be  included  in  "Feng-sh'an"  (Chapter  XXI),  \ao  in  "Chao- 
tz'e"  (Chapter  XIX),  shih  in  "Chu-meng"  (Chapter  X),  wen  in  "I-tui"  (Chapter  XXIV), 
ch'ii,  ts'ao,  lung,  yin,  yin,  feng,  yao,  and  yung  in  "Yueh-fu"  (Chapter  VII),  chang  in 
"Chang-piao"  (Chapter  XXII). 

17  See  Lun-yii  yin-te,  1/1/6.  "When  there  is  energy  left  after  moral  practice,  then 
take  up  literature." 


XV.  Humor  and  Enigma  (The  Hsieh  and  the  Yin) 


A  poem  of  Jui  Liang-f  u's  contains  these  lines : 

[The  king]   has  his  own  private  thoughts, 
And  he  exhausts  and  enrages  the  people.1 

The  mental  processes  of  the  people  are  as  precipitous  as  mountains,  and 
their  mouths,  when  stopped,  are  like  dammed-up  rivers.  As  their  re- 
sentment and  anger  differ,  their  ways  of  expressing  these  feelings  in 
jests  or  derision  also  vary.  When  once  long  ago  Hua  Yuan  left  his 
armor  in  the  field  after  his  defeat,  the  soldiers  guarding  the  city 
ridiculed  him  in  a  song  gibing  at  his  protruding  eyes.2  And  when 
Tsang  Ho  lost  his  army,  he  was  the  subject  of  a  satirical  tune  referring 
to  him  as  a  pigmy.3  In  both  cases  the  people  mocked  the  appearance 
of  the  subjects  of  their  songs  in  order  to  express  their  inner  resentment 
and  scorn.  Again  there  were  the  rude  popular  songs  using  the  figures 
of  the  silkworm  and  crab  and  the  inappropriate  song  referring  to  the 
colorful  pattern  of  a  raccoon.4  Crude  though  these  may  be,  in  case  they 
could  be  of  service  in  the  way  of  giving  warning  to  people,  they  were 
all  recorded  in  the  Boo\  of  Rites,  or  the  Li-chi.  These  examples  show 

1  Mao-shih  yin-te,  69/257/8.  According  to  the  preface  to  the  poem,  Jui  was  criticizing 
King  Li  of  the  Chou  dynasty,  who  paid  no  attention  to  the  people  but  followed  his  own 
intentions.  "He  has  his  own  lungs  and  intestines." 

2  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,   179-180/Hsuan  2/1  Tso. 

3  Ibid.,  259/Hsiang  4/Tso  fu  2.  Tsang  was  a  very  small  man. 

4  Li-chi  yin-te,  4/72.  A  man  of  Ch'eng — a  city  of  Lu,  in  present  day  Shangtung — 
would  not  wear  mourning  for  his  elder  brother.  But  as  soon  as  he  heard  that  Tzu-kao, 
a  disciple  of  Confucius  known  for  his  filial  piety,  was  appointed  the  magistrate  of 
Ch'eng,  he  started  to  wear  mourning  for  his  brother.  The  people  of  Ch'eng  sang  a 
song,  which  runs:  "A  silkworm  has  silk,  while  a  crab  has  a  basket;  .  .  .  and  when  his 
brother  died,  he  wore  mourning  for  Tzu-kao."  Just  as  the  basket,  that  is,  the  house 
the  crab  carried,  was  not  for  holding  the  silk  the  silkworm  produced,  so  the  mourning 
of  the  man  of  Ch'eng  was  not  for  his  own  brother.  The  same  chapter  of  the  Li-chi,  4/69, 
tells  us  that  while  Confucius  was  working  on  the  coffin  for  the  mother  of  an  old  friend 
by  the  name  of  Yuan  Jang,  the  latter  sang  that  the  carving  of  the  wood  was  as  beautiful 
as  the  pattern  of  a  raccoon's  head.  This  was  highly  inappropriate  for  the  occasion,  but 
Confucius  forgave  him  because  he  was  his  old  friend.  Some  scholars  with  a  Taoist  bent 
considered  Yuan  Jang  a  man  of  great  achievement  because  he  succeeded  in  freeing 
himself  from  his  emotions,  which  are  the  human  bondage. 


Humor  and  Enigma  79 

us  that  even  humorous  sayings  and  enigmatic  statements  are  not  to 
be  discarded. 

Hsieh ,  or  humor  or  jest,  means  chieh,  or  all,5  that  is,  something 
expressed  in  crude  language  to  the  taste  of  the  common  people,  which 
is  enjoyed  by  all.  In  ancient  times  King  Wei  of  Ch'i  indulged  in  drink- 
ing and  feasting,  and  Ch'un-yu  [K'un]  admonished  him  by  means  of 
a  comic  story  about  good  wine.6  And  during  a  feasting  party  given  by 
King  Hsiang  of  Ch'u,  Sung  Yii  wrote  a  [witty]  fu  arguing  that  he  was 
not  fond  of  women.7  Both  of  these  aimed  at  subtle  advice  and  may  be 
commended.  Then  we  have  jester  Chan's  ironic  comment  on  [Erh-shih's 
proposal  to]  paint  the  city  walls,8  and  jester  Meng's  sarcastic  remon- 
strance against  the  funeral  service  for  a  dead  horse;9  in  both  cases  clever 
speeches  and  witty  arguments  were  employed  to  suppress  what  would 
have  been  stupidity  and  ruthlessness.  For  this  reason,  Tzu-ch'ang  [or 
Ssu-ma  Ch'ien],  when  compiling  his  history  [the  Shih-chi],  included 

5  Chieh  (meaning  "all")  is  a  component  in  hsieh,  giving  it  its  phonetic  element.  The 
signific  element  of  hsieh  is  furnished  by  the  radical  yen,  meaning  "to  talk."  But  Liu 
Hsieh  was  apparently  treating  the  phonetic  chieh  as  a  signific  element.  However, 
since  by  a  signific  is  meant  merely  a  general  area  within  which  the  meaning  of  the 
word  may  fall,  and  since  in  many  cases  specific  meaning  is  furnished  by  what  is  usually 
taken  to  be  a  phonetic,  Liu  may  be  correct  here.  In  that  case,  we  have  to  translate  the 
term  chieh   (all)  to  mean  "some  kind  of  harmony  among  all  people." 

6  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  Shih-chi,  "Ku-chi  lieh-chuan."  Ch'un-yii  K'un  told  the  king  that 
sometimes  he  was  drunk  after  drinking  a  ton  (about  a  liquid  pint),  and  sometimes  he 
was  drunk  after  drinking  a  shih  (ten  times  a  ton).  He  described  how  drinking  loosened 
up  his  morals,  and  brought  the  king  to  his  senses,  so  that  he  promised  to  give  up 
all-night  drinking  sprees. 

7  The  fu  is  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 

8  When  Erh-shih,  the  second  emperor  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty,  planned  to  have  the  city 
walls  painted,  jester  Chan  said,  "Good.  Even  if  your  majesty  did  not  speak  about  it, 
I  would  have  petitioned  for  it.  Though  the  painting  of  the  city  walls  might  prove  a 
great  sorrow  and  burden  to  the  people,  it  is  indeed  fine!  The  city  walls  would  be  bright 
and  slippery,  and  no  enemy  could  climb  them;  and  even  if  they  did  climb  them,  they 
would  all  be  easily  tarnished.  However,  this  would  hardly  give  shelter  to  your  own 
home."  Erh-shih  laughed  and  gave  up  his  plan.  See  Shih-chi,  "Ku-chi  lieh-chuan." 

9  Ibid.:  A  favorite  horse  of  King  Chuang  of  Ch'u  died.  The  king  ordered  all  his 
ministers  to  wear  mourning,  and  planned  to  give  it  a  funeral  service  fitting  a  high 
official.  When  his  subordinates  advised  against  it,  he  decreed,  "Those  who  dare  to  advise 
against  the  funeral  of  the  horse  shall  die."  Jester  Meng  heard  of  it,  came  before  the 
king,  and  started  to  cry.  When  asked  why,  he  said,  "The  horse  was  the  king's  favorite. 
In  a  state  as  great  as  Ch'u,  nothing  is  impossible.  It  would  indeed  be  too  much  of  a 
slight  to  bury  it  with  a  service  only  befitting  a  minister;  it  should  be  buried  with  a 
service  befitting  a  ruler  .  .  .  for  only  thus  would  the  lords  know  that  your  majesty 
values  horses  and  despises  human  beings."  The  king  gave  up  his  plan. 


80  Humor  and  Enigma 

in  it  a  chapter  on  the  humorists  ["Ku-chi  lieh-chuan"],  because  in  spite 
of  their  wandering  and  devious  speeches  they  always  aim  toward  the 
right  principle.  However,  what  is  by  nature  not  of  the  purest  easily 
leads  to  the  faulty.  Thus  we  have  Tung-fang  [So]  and  Mei  Kao,  who 
"feed  on  the  dregs  of  the  wine,"  [that  is,  they  had  a  tendency  to  sink 
to  the  level  of  the  common  herd].10  They  did  nothing  to  correct  the 
tendency  and,  instead,  indulged  in  raillery  and  took  indecent  personal 
liberties.  Thus,  even  if  they  referred  to  their  works  as  fu,  they  knew 
very  well  that  these  are  no  better  than  comic  preces.  Mei  showed  some 
measure  of  regret  when  he  saw  that  he  had  been  looked  upon  as  a 
jester.11  Thus  Wei-wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  used  comic  themes  to  write 
jokes;12  and  Hsiieh  Tsung  jested  sarcastically  during  a  diplomatic 
reception.13  These  jokes,  though  effective  in  producing  merriment 
during  a  feast,  serve  no  practical  purposes.  And  yet  good  writers  often 
went  out  of  their  way  to  join  in  the  fun;  P'an  Yueh's  joke  on  an  ugly 
woman  and  Shu  Hsi's  on  a  pastry  peddler  are  good  examples.14  And 
those  who  followed  in  their  footsteps  number  more  than  a  hundred. 
The  humorists  during  the  Wei  and  the  Chin  accentuated  the  trend  by 
their  mutual  influence.  We  find  the  nose  of  Ying  Yang  compared  to 
an  egg  whose  end  has  been  cut  off  by  a  thief,  and  the  physical  form 
of  Chang  Hua  compared  to  the  handle  of  a  pestle.15  These  loquacious 
writings  are  a  disgrace  to  moral  principles.  Are  they  not  as  unseemly 
as  laughter  from  a  drowning  man  or  riotous  songs  from  a  criminal? 
Yin,  or  enigma,  literally  means  to  hide:  to  use  obscure  language  to 
hide  ideas  or  to  employ  an  artful  parable  to  point  to  certain  facts. 

10  A  figure  taken  from  the  "Yii-fu"  in  the  Ch'u-tz'u,  meaning  to  follow  the  trend 
of  the  crowd. 

11  See  the  Han-shu,  the  biographies    of  Tung-fang  So  and  of  Mei  Kao. 

12  His  joke  book  is  not  reported  in  his  biography  in  the  "Wei-chih"  in  the 
San-\uo-chih. 

13  See  his  biography  in  the  "Wu-chih"  in  the  San-\uo-chih. 

14  Pan's  work  is  not  identifiable.  Shu's  work  is  found  in  Hsu  Ku  Wen-yiian. 

15  The  reference  to  the  case  of  Ying  Yang  (A.D.  ?-2i7)  cannot  be  identified.  That 
of  Chang  Hua  (A.D.  232-300)  is  found  in  the  Shih-shuo  hsin-yu  by  Liu  I-ch'ing,  "P'ai- 
tiao  p'ien"  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  6,  Chapter  25,  p.  206.  Six  persons  are 
mentioned  together  with  six  descriptions.  Since  the  correlation  between  the  persons 
mentioned  and  the  subsequent  descriptions  is  not  specified,  Liu  Hsieh  must  have  some 
other  source  as  the  basis  for  his  statement. 


Humor  and  Enigma  81 

When  Hsiian  [Wu-]  she  [of  Hsiao]  asked  Ch'u  generals  to  save  him 
[when  Hsiao  was  under  attack  by  Ch'u,  and  Hsiian  knew  that  the 
Hsiao  army  would  be  routed],  their  talk  about  "yeast"  really  referred 
to  the  dry  well  [in  which  Hsiian  hid  while  waiting  to  be  rescued].16 
And  when  [Shen]  Shu-i  [of  Wu]  begged  for  food  from  the  ministers 
of  Lu,  he  sang  of  pendant  jade,  while  the  ministers  told  him  to  call 
for  ^eng-^'uei.17  Wu  Chii18  satirized  the  king  of  Ch'u  with  the  parable 
of  the  great  bird,19  and  a  Ch'i  gentleman  gibed  at  the  Lord  of  She 
with  the  parable  of  a  sea  fish.20  And  Chuang  Chi  [Chih]  used  the 
allegory  of  the  tail  of  a  dragon,21  while  Tsang  Wen[-chung]  sent  a 

16  Yeast  was  good  for  prevention  of  getting  wet;  see  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chnan  yin-te, 
200 /Hsiian  12/5  Tso. 

17  Shu-i,  in  his  song,  told  the  Lu  people  that  while  everybody  in  the  Ch'u  camp  had 
a  jade  pendant,  he  alone  had  to  go  without;  and  while  everybody  had  good  wine  to 
drink,  he  and  other  commoners  could  only  look  on  as  they  drank.  The  Lu  ministers 
told  him  to  call  for  ^eng-f^'uei,  which  is  a  riddle  meaning  food  and  water,  for  in  the 
army  food  was  not  to  be  given  out  to  the  enemy. 

18  Flourishing  during  the  seventh  century  B.C. 

19  Shih-chi,  "Ch'u  shih-chia."  For  three  years  after  King  Chuang  of  Ch'u  ascended 
the  throne,  he  gave  no  orders.  Day  and  night  he  passed  in  revelry.  His  only  proclamation 
to  the  people  runs:  "Those  who  dare  remonstrate  with  me  shall  die."  Then  came  Wu 
Chii,  who  said  he  had  a  riddle  to  present  before  his  majesty.  "On  a  mound  there  is  a 
bird  which  for  three  years  would  neither  fly  nor  cry.  What  is  that  bird?"  King  Chuang 
said,  "For  three  years  it  may  not  have  made  a  single  flight,  but  once  it  flies,  it  will 
penetrate  the  sky;  for  three  years  it  may  not  have  cried,  but  once  it  cries,  its  cry  will 
startle  all  the  people.  Go  home,  Chii.  I  now  know." 

20  Chan-\uo  ts'e,  "Ch'i-ts'e."  Ching-kuo-chiin  was  about  to  build  the  city  walls  of 
She.  Annoyed  by  objectors,  he  ordered  that  no  one  should  be  admitted  to  his  residence. 
A  Ch'i  gentleman  pleaded  that  he  be  given  a  chance  to  say  only  three  words,  saying 
that  if  he  should  say  a  word  more,  he  was  willing  to  accept  the  death  penalty.  Ching- 
kuo-chiin  saw  him.  The  gentleman  rushed  in  and  said,  "Sea  big  fish,"  and  rushed  out. 
When  called  on  to  explain,  he  refused,  saying  that  he  was  not  willing  to  play  with 
death.  Chun  told  him  to  forget  about  his  agreement  and  give  the  explanation.  So  he  said, 
"Have  you  not  heard  of  the  big  fish?  No  net  can  get  it,  and  no  hook  can  catch  it. 
However,  if  ever  it  is  out  of  water,  even  ants  can  do  anything  they  wish  with  it.  Now 
the  state  of  Ch'i  is  your  water.  Having  Ch'i,  why  should  you  build  walls  for  She? 
If  ever  you  should  lose  Ch'i,  even  if  you  heightened  the  walls  of  She  to  the  sky,  it 
would  be  of  no  use  to  you."  Chun  said,  "Good."  He  gave  up  building  walls  for  She. 

21  Lieh-nu  chuan  (Ssu-pu  pei-yao  ed.),  chiian  6,  p.  46.  Chuang  Chih  said  to  King 
Ch'ing-hsiang  of  Ch'u,  "The  big  fish  is  out  of  water;  the  dragon  is  without  a  tail;  the 
walls  are  about  to  fall  in,  and  yet  Your  Majesty  will  not  take  a  look."  When  told  to 
explain,  she  said,  "The  fish  out  of  water  is  Your  Majesty,  who  is  now  five  hundred  li 
from  the  capital.  The  dragon  without  a  tail  points  out  the  fact  that  you  are  now  forty 
years  of  age  and  yet  without  an  heir.  .  .  .  The  walls  about  to  fall  in  at  which  Your 
Majesty  will  not  take  a  look  mean  that  confusion  is  about  to  reign  and  yet  you  will  not 
change  your  way." 


82  Humor  and  Enigma 

cryptic  message  using  the  figure  of  a  sheepskin.22  Historical  records 
abound  in  cases  of  the  employment  of  yin;  some  of  the  important  ones 
served  to  bring  about  good  government  and  helped  develop  personality, 
and  some  of  the  minor  ones  also  assisted  in  recalling  the  erring  and 
in  dissolving  doubts.  For  a  guiding  principle  of  the  yin  is  expediency, 
and  it  is  employed  at  critical  moments.  Enigmas  and  humorous  writ- 
ings may  be  considered  to  be  two  aspects  of  the  same  thing.  There  were 
eighteen  collections  of  enigmas  during  the  Han  dynasty,  and  Liu  Hsin 
and  Pan  Ku  placed  them  at  the  end  of  "Songs."23 

King  Chuang  of  Ch'u  and  King  Wei  of  Ch'i  in  ancient  times  loved 
enigmas.  After  their  time  came  Tung-fang  Man-ch'ien  [or  Tung-fang 
So],  who  was  particularly  clever  in  making  them.  But  his  are  mostly 
absurd  statements  and  calumnious  jests,  which  serve  no  moral  purpose. 

Since  the  time  of  Wei,  jokers  and  jesters  have  been  disparaged.  Men 
of  culture,  ridiculing  yin,  transformed  them  into  riddles.24  A  riddle  is 
a  piece  of  writing  so  circuitous  that  it  leads  people  into  a  maze.  Some 
riddles  are  based  on  the  structure  of  characters,  and  some  on  the 
pictures  and  forms  of  articles.  They  show  refinement  and  cleverness 
in  the  manipulation  of  thoughts,  and  simplicity  and  clarity  in  the 
array  of  expressions;  their  ideas  are  indirect  and  yet  correct,  and  their 
language  is  ambiguous  and  yet  suggestive.  We  find  the  beginning  of 
this  development  already  evident  in  Hsiin-ch'ing's  "Ts'an-fu."  The 
riddles  by  Wei- wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  and  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih] 
are  terse  and  close-knit;  those  by  Kao-kuei-hsiang-kung  are  compre- 
hensive in  citing  illustrations  but,  while  cunning  and  clever,  they  miss 

22  Ibid.,  chiian  3,  p.  25.  Tsang  Wen-chung  of  Lu  was  sent  to  Ch'i  as  an  envoy.  Ch'i 
detained  him  and  raised  an  army  to  attack  Lu.  Wen-chung  sent  a  cryptic  message  to 
the  Duke  of  Lu.  The  language  was  so  ambiguous  that  only  his  mother  knew  how  to 
decipher  it.  The  message  contains  many  figures  meaning  various  things.  Among  them 
is  the  one  about  sheepskin  mentioned  in  the  text,  which  means  that  Ch'i  was  feasting  its 
troops  and  getting  ready  for  an  assault  against  Lu.  Liu  Hsieh  picked  this  one  out  as 
representative. 

23  According  to  the  arrangement  given  in  the  "I-wen  chih"  in  the  Han-shu,  these 
enigmas  are  placed  below  /«,  and  not  "Songs."  Perhaps  Liu  Hsieh  was  using  the  term 
fu  loosely,  as  he  and  most  writers  of  the  time  so  often  did. 

24  It  seems  that  an  enigma  attempts  to  hide  ideas  from  those  for  whom  they  are  not 
intended,  and  a  riddle  is  to  puzzle  people's  minds  generally. 


Historical  Writings  83 

the  important  point.  When  we  re-examine  the  enigmas  of  the  ancients, 
we  find  that  they  are  perfectly  logical,  concerned  with  what  is  im- 
portant. When  did  they  indulge  in  childish  burlesques,  aiming  at 
thigh-slapping  merriment? 

However,  the  place  of  the  hsieh  and  yin  in  literature  is  comparable 
to  that  of  the  "Small  Talk"  [anecdotal  writings  which  were  considered 
as  of  no  great  importance]  in  the  midst  of  the  Nine  Schools.25  For  the 
petty  officials  collected  these  anecdotes  to  broaden  their  scope  of  ob- 
servation. If  one  should  allow  himself  to  follow  in  their  steps,  would 
he  be  more  advanced  than  [Ch'un-yu]  K'un  and  [Tung-fang]  So  and 
the  firm  friends  of  Chan  and  Meng,  the  jesters? 

The  Tsan: 
The  satires  and  enigmas  of  the  ancient  times 
Aimed  at  getting  people  out  of  critical  situations  and  relieving  them  of 

boredom. 
"Though  silk  and  hemp  exist, 
One  does  not  discard  straw  and  rush."26 
If  the  ideas  are  appropriate  and  fitting  to  the  situation, 
They  may  help  give  admonition  and  warning; 
Should  they  be  mere  farce  and  jokes, 
They  would  have  a  very  damaging  effect  upon  moral  living. 


XVI.  Historical  Writings 

The  beginning  of  human  history  lies  so  far  back  in  time  that  it  is 
shrouded  in  primitive  darkness.  For  us  who  live  in  modern  times,  are 

25  See  the  "I-wen  chih"  in  the  Han-shu.  Actually  ten  schools  are  listed:  Confucians, 
Taoists,  the  School  of  Yin-yang,  Legalists,  the  School  of  Vertical  Alliance  and  Horizontal 
Confederacy,  Logicians,  Mohists,  Miscellaneous,  Agriculturists,  and  the  School  of  Small 
Talk.  But  "I-wen  chih"  also  states  that,  of  these  ten  schools,  only  nine  are  worthy  of 
attention. 

26  A  quotation  from  a  poem  preserved  in  Tso-chuan.  See  Ch-un-ch'iu  ching-chuan 
yin-te,  229 /Cheng  9/12  Tso. 


84  Historical  Writings 

not  written  records  the  only  sources  of  learning  about  the  ancient 
world?  During  the  time  of  Hsiian-yiian  [the  Yellow  Emperor]  lived 
Ts'ang  Chieh,  who  served  as  a  historian.  So  it  has  apparently  been  a 
practice  since  time  immemorial  to  keep  an  office  in  charge  of  records. 
In  the  "Ch'u-li"  it  is  said,  "Historians  carry  brushes  in  attendance  on 
the  king's  left  and  right."1  Shih,  or  a  historian,  literally  means  shih,  or 
to  employ,  one  who  waited  on  the  left  or  right  of  the  king  and  who 
was  employed  to  keep  records.  In  ancient  times,  the  left-hand  historian 
kept  records  of  what  was  done,  and  the  right-hand  historian,  of  what 
was  said.  The  classic  of  what  was  said  is  in  the  Boo\  of  History  and 
the  classic  of  what  was  done  is  in  the  Annals  of  Ch'un-ch'iu.  In  the 
T'ang  and  Yii  dynasties  were  developed  the  Tien  and  the  Mu>2  and 
during  the  Shang  and  Hsia3  were  developed  the  \ao  and  shih.4  When 
the  Chou  received  the  new  mandate  of  heaven,  Duke  Chi  [of  Chou] 
laid  the  foundation  of  all  institutions.  He  considered  the  three  methods 
of  determining  the  first  month  of  the  year,5  and  formulated  the  Chou 
calendar;  he  also  employed  the  system  of  using  the  four  seasons  for 
the  orderly  recording  of  events.6  When  the  lords  established  their 
states,  each  had  his  own  state  history,  the  purpose  of  which  was  to  give 
distinction  to  the  good  and  ill  fame  to  the  evil,  so  as  to  establish  certain 
norms  governing  mores. 
When  the  Chou  declined  during  the  reign  of  King  P'ing,7  there  was 

1  See  Li-chi  yin-te,  1/37.  The  phrase  "in  attendance  on  the  king's  left  and  right"  was 
added  by  Liu  Hsieh. 

2  In  the  Boo\  of  History,  the  first  two  chapters  have  the  titles  "Yao-tien"  and  "Shun- 
tien,"  and  the  next  two  chapters,  "Ta-yii  mu"  and  "Kao-yao  mu." 

3  The  order  should  be  Hsia  and  Shang.  Liu's  choice  was  probably  influenced  by  the 
tones  of  the  characters  in  the  first  line,  so  he  changed  the  order  for  pleasant  tonal  effect. 

4  In  the  Boo\  of  History,  Chapters  11,  12,  27,  29,  30,  32,  33,  and  34  ar^  \ao,  and 
Chapters  7,  10,  21,  49,  and  50  are  shih. 

5  From  the  time  of  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Han  dynasty  until  19 12  when  the  solar 
calendar  was  adopted,  China  had  used  the  Hsia  method  of  determining  the  first  month 
of  the  year.  The  Shang  dynasty  arranged  its  first  month  to  fall  on  the  twelfth  month 
of  the  Hsia  calendar;  the  Chou  dynasty,  on  its  eleventh  month.  These  three  ways  of 
determining  the  first  month  are  known  as  san-cheng,  or  "three  first  months." 

6  In  recording  events,  Ch'un-ch'iu  first  gives  the  year  of  the  reigning  duke  of  Lu, 
then  the  seasons — spring,  summer,  autumn,  and  winter — ,  then  the  month,  and  then 
the  day.  The  last  two  items  are  sometimes  omitted. 

7  King  P'ing  (770-720  B.C.)  moved  Chou's  capital  to  the  east  (the  present  Lo-yang 
in  Honan)  under  the  pressure  of  the  western  barbarians. 


Historical  Writings  85 

nothing  in  the  government  that  was  morally  worthy  of  being  sung  in 
the  Odes;8  laws  and  regulations  were  discarded,  and  moral  principles 
collapsed.  The  Master  [Confucius],  grieving  for  the  disappearance  of 
the  kingly  way  and  the  fall  of  orthodox  principle,  was  smitten  with 
sadness,  when  he  resided  at  home,  because  of  the  failure  of  the  phoenix 
to  arrive;  and  shed  tears,  while  loitering  on  the  street,  on  hearing  of 
the  capture  of  a  unicorn.9  So  he  retired  to  the  place  of  the  Great  Master 
of  Music  for  advice  to  rectify  the  trends  of  music  and  bring  them  back 
to  the  ya  and  the  sung™  and  he  edited  Ch'un-ch'iu,  on  the  basis  of 
the  history  of  Lu.  In  this  work,  he  dealt  with  successes  and  failures  in 
history  to  illustrate  his  approval  and  disapproval  [of  various  facets  of 
the  contemporary  scene],  and  exposed  the  factors  governing  the  desti- 
nies of  states  to  show  what  was  to  be  encouraged  and  what  warned 
against.  One  word  of  praise  from  him  was  worth  more  than  the 
carriage  and  official  cap  of  high  government  position;  and  one  word 
of  censure  cut  deeper  than  hatchet  and  halberd.  However,  the  purpose 
of  the  work  is  deep  and  profound,  and  its  language  connotative  and 
terse.  As  [Tso]  Ch'iu-ming  was  a  contemporary,  he  knew  the  secrets 
of  its  subtle  words.  He  therefore  traced  its  roots  and  followed  all  its 
important  ramifications  to  the  end,  and  in  so  doing  created  a  style  of 
writing  known  as  chuan,  or  commentary.  By  chuan,  or  to  comment, 
is  meant  chuan,  or  to  transfer,  that  is,  to  transfer  the  ideas  of  the  Classics 

8  One  of  the  literary  principles  advocated  in  the  preface  to  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  and 
reinforced  by  numerous  later  attempts  (Cheng  Hsiian's  Shih-p'u  hsii,  preface  to  the 
chronology  of  poetry,  being  the  best  known)  is  that  the  quality  of  poetry  is  intimately 
related  to  the  quality  of  the  government.  By  "quality"  here  is  meant  mainly  moral 
quality.  For  the  function  of  poetry  is  assumed  to  be  didactic. 

9  For  a  reference  to  the  phoenix,  as  an  omen  of  a  wondrous  event,  see  Chapter  I 
above;  and  for  the  significance  of  the  unicorn,  see  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te, 
487/ Ai  1 4/ 1  Kung.  Both  phoenix  and  unicorn  are  symbols  indicating  the  prevailing  of 
a  kingly  way,  or  signs  that  a  sage  is  in  command.  In  the  case  of  the  phoenix,  Confucius 
mourned  that  there  was  no  such  sign,  meaning  that  he  was  not  at  the  helm  of  the 
government,  hence  the  figure  of  residing  at  home;  and  in  the  case  of  the  unicorn,  its 
appearance  was  at  a  time  when  there  was  no  kingly  government  to  correspond  to  the 
auspicious  prognostication.  This  appearance  is  symbolized  by  Confucius'  loitering  on  the 
street.  Of  course,  both  the  phoenix  and  the  unicorn  were  used  with  reference  to  his 
own  political  fortune  in  life. 

10  Ya  and  sung  constitute  the  orthodox  music  as  contrasted  with  the  Cheng,  or  licen- 
tious music,  which  prevailed  at  that  time. 


86  Historical  Writings 

one  receives  to  those  who  come  after  one.  Chuan,  or  the  commentary, 
is  indeed  the  wings  of  the  sage's  writings,  and  the  crown  of  all  written 
records. 

The  office  of  historian  was  still  in  evidence  during  that  period 
peculiarly  characterized  by  [the  political  sophistry  of]  the  Vertical 
Alliance  and  Horizontal  Confederacy  [of  the  Warring  States  period].11 
When  the  state  of  Ch'in  unified  the  seven  states,  it  was  found  that  each 
of  the  warring  states  had  its  own  ts'e,  or  records.  Since  these  were 
simple  records  without  running  commentaries,  they  used  the  term 
for  bamboo  slips,  or  ts'e,  to  designate  them.12  When  the  Han  destroyed 
the  houses  of  Yin  and  Hsiang,13  the  first  years  witnessed  a  parade  of 
military  achievements.  Lu  Chia  [228-140  B.C.],  steeped  in  the  ancient 
models,  wrote  Ch'u-han  ch'un-ch'iu  [History  of  the  Struggle  between 
Ch'u  and  Han].14 

Then  came  the  grand  historian  [Ssu-ma]  T'an,15  whose  family  for 
generations  had  served  in  the  capacity  of  "holders  of  bamboo  slips" 
[or  historians].  [T'an's  son]  Tzu-ch'ang  [or  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien]  continued 
the  tradition,  and  enumerated  the  achievements  of  the  rulers.  [Here  he 
was  faced  with  a  problem.]  Should  he  compare  all  rulers  to  Yao  and 
designate  the  chapters  on  them  tien?1Q  But  not  all  the  rulers  were 
worthy  ones;  in  their  midst  were  some  who  were  unworthy.  Should 
he  follow  the  example  of  Confucius  and  give  the  title  ching,  or  classic, 
to  his  writings?  But  his  style  of  writing  could  not  compare  with  that 
of  the  First  Sage.  So  he  adopted  the  title  used  in  the  Lii-lan  [or  Lii-shih 

11  During  this  period,  political  speculators  fell  into  two  groups,  one  maneuvering  to 
line  up  the  states,  now  reduced  to  seven  in  number,  for  Ch'in,  known  as  the  Vertical 
Alliance,  and  the  other  maneuvering  them  against  Ch'in  with  Ch'i  as  their  leader, 
known  as  the  Horizontal  Confederacy. 

12  For  the  Chan-\uo  ts'e,  see  A.  Wylie,  Notes  on  Chinese  Literature  (Shanghai,  1922), 
p.  32,  under  Chen  \wo  ts'ih. 

13  The  House  of  Yin  refers  to  the  Ch'in  dynasty  and  the  House  of  Hsiang,  to  Hsiang 
Yii,  Liu  Pang's  chief  rival  for  power  at  the  end  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty. 

14  King  of  Ch'u  was  Hsiang  Yii's  title  and  King  of  Han,  Liu  Pang's. 

15  T'an  was  the  father  of  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien,  the  first  great  historian. 

16  The  first  chapter  of  the  Boo\  of  History  deals  with  the  accomplishments  of  Yao 
and  is  called  "Yao-tien."  The  term  tien  thus  acquires  a  specific  significance  as  a  style, 
generally  characterized  by  archaic  flavor,  which  was  taken  to  be  a  sign  of  elegance.  Later 
it  came  to  mean  what  is  really  elegant  without  being  archaic. 


Historical  Writings  87 

ch'un-ch'iu\  and  gave  the  general  title  of  chi>  or  annals,  to  all  these 
chapters.17  This  is  a  grand  title,  as  it  has  the  meaning  of  "a  principle."18 
[The  whole  work  includes:]  the  chi,  or  annals,  which  treat  of  all 
sovereigns  and  kings,  the  lieh-chuan,  or  biographies,  of  lords  and 
titular  personages,  the  eight  treatises  on  the  various  aspects  of  the 
government,  and  the  ten  charts  of  chronologies  and  titleholders.19 
This  arrangement,  though  differing  from  the  ancient  form,  serves  to 
relate  historical  facts  in  neat  order.  His  merits  include  his  effort  to 
create  a  factual  record  without  evasion  or  omission,  his  comprehensive- 
ness in  covering  his  sources,  his  purity  of  style,  his  extensive  observa- 
tions, and  his  logical  clarity;  and  his  faults  include  his  love  for  the 
strange,  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  the  Classics,  and  the  absence  of  order 
in  his  arrangement  of  certain  materials.  These  merits  and  faults  have 
been  discussed  in  detail  by  Shu-p'i  [or  Pan  Piao,  A.D.  3-54].  Pan  Ku 
followed  in  his  steps  in  writing  the  history  of  the  Han  dynasty,  and 
a  knowledge  of  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien's  literary  quality  will  carry  us  over 
half  the  distance  in  understanding  Pan  Ku's  work.  His  ten  treatises 
are  all-inclusive  and  rich  in  sources;  his  tsan,  or  concluding  remarks 
of  praise  or  censure,  and  hsii,  or  prologues,  are  grand  and  beautiful; 
the  work  is  a  specimen  of  the  combination  of  scholarship  and  literary 
grace  which  gives  the  reader  a  taste  that  lingers  on.  He  wrote  in  the 
tradition  of  the  Classics  and  looked  to  the  Sage  as  his  example;  his 
narratives  are  both  rich  and  brilliant;  these  are  his  merits.  He  was 
accused  of  passing  over  his  father  and  plagiarizing  his  work,  and  of 
demanding  payment  of  gold  as  a  compensation  for  writing  the  history. 
But  these  false  accusations  were  eloquently  disposed  of  by  Kung-li 
[or  Chung  Ch'ang-t'ung,  180-220]. 20  Narratives  of  historical  events 
by  Tso  [Ch'iu-ming]  are  attached  to  the  main  text  of  the  Classic  [of 

17  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  contains  12  chi,  8  Ian  (perusal),  and  6  lun  (essays). 

18  "Principle"  is  another  connotation  of  chi,  in  the  sense  that  it  serves,  like  the  annals, 
as  a  general  outline  in  which  all  events  fall  into  place. 

19  Liu  Hsieh  seems  to  have  unwittingly  omitted  the  "shih-chia"  (or  the  biographies  of 
members  of  high  families),  and  placed  under  the  lieh-chuan,  which  deal  with  prominent 
men,  what  should  have  been  placed  under  the  "shih-chia." 

20  Chung's  work  is  lost;  only  three  items  are  preserved  in  Ma  Kuo-han's  Yii-han 
shan-jang  chi-i. 


88  Historical  Writings 

Ch'un-ch'iu].  His  language  is  succinct;  yet  it  is  rather  difficult  to  get 
a  clear  idea  of  clans  and  families.  It  was  the  biographical  section  of  the 
history  by  [Ssu-ma]  Ch'ien  that  first  presented  a  clear  picture  and 
easy  view  of  the  prominent  men.  This  served  as  an  example  for  all 
later  historians.  When  Emperor  Hsiao-hui  [of  the  Han,  194-188  B.C.] 
was  gathered  to  his  fathers,  his  mother,  Empress  Lii,  acted  as  a  regent, 
and  both  Pan  Ku  and  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  devoted  a  chi  to  her.  This  is 
contrary  to  the  principle  found  in  the  Classics,  and  did  not  do  justice 
to  the  actual  fact.  Why?  Because  since  the  time  of  Pao-hsi,21  nobody 
has  ever  heard  of  a  female  ruler.22  The  hard  fate  the  Han  met  with 
should  not  be  made  a  basis  for  a  general  way  of  viewing  all  later 
dynasties.  It  was  King  Wu  who  first  swore  that  a  hen  should  not 
herald  the  approach  of  morning;23  and  Duke  Huan  of  Ch'i,  in  a  con- 
ference, stated  that  no  woman  should  be  allowed  to  interfere  with  the 
affairs  of  the  state.24  Queen  Hstian  of  Ch'in25  brought  moral  chaos 
to  her  state,26  and  [the  violent  interference  of  Empress  Lii]  threatened 
to  end  the  life  of  the  Han.27  Not  only  should  state  affairs  not  be 
entrusted  to  the  hands  of  a  woman,  but  even  names  and  titles28  should 
be  applied  to  them  with  discretion.  But  when  Chang  Heng  [A.D.  78- 
139]  was  in  charge  of  the  records,  he  committed  the  same  mistake 
that  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  and  Pan  Ku  had  committed.  His  idea  of  devoting 
a  chi  to  Empress  Yuan  and  Empress  P'ing29  is  indeed  absurd.  Although 

21  Better  known  as  Fu-hsi,  one  of  the  three  legendary  sovereigns. 

22  Chi,  annals,  is  a  title  reserved  for  rulers.  To  call  the  biography  of  an  empress  chi 
and  use  it  as  a  framework  in  which  other  events  of  the  time  fall  into  place  is,  by 
implication,  a  moral  indorsement  of  a  female  sovereign.  Since  the  function  of  a  his- 
torian, according  to  this  ancient  tradition,  was  to  give  implied  value  judgment  by  means 
of  certain  loaded  words  or  phrases,  Liu  Hsieh  considered  Pan  Ku's  and  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien's 
application  of  the  term  chi  to  the  biography  of  the  empress  highly  censurable. 

23  See  the  Book,  of  History,  "Mu-shih,"  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  0091-0094. 

24  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  ioo/Hsi  9/4  Ku. 

25  Queen  Hsiian  of  Ch'in  had  illicit  relations  with  a  barbarian  king. 

26  Shih-chi,  "Hsiung-nu  lieh-chuan." 

27  Empress  Lii,  the  consort  of  the  first  emperor  of  the  Han,  removed  emperors  from 
the  throne,  murdered  princes  of  the  Liu  family,  and  made  members  of  her  own  Lii 
family  princes,  an  act  in  direct  defiance  to  the  will  of  the  deceased  first  emperor. 

28  In  the  present  case,  Liu  had  in  mind  the  application  of  the  term  chi. 

29  Empress  Yuan  was  the  consort  of  Emperor  Yuan  [48-33  B.C.]  and  Empress  P'ing, 
the  consort  of  Emperor  P'ing  [A.D.  I -5]. 


Historical  Writings  89 

Tzu-hung  was  not  really  [born  of  the  royal  concubine  Chang],  he  was 
after  all  the  heir  of  Emperor  Hsiao-hui;  and  although  Ju-tzu  [Ying, 
A.D.  6-8]  was  raised  from  a  lowly  status,  he  was,  nevertheless,  a  suc- 
cessor to  Emperor  P'ing.  Both  of  these  are  legitimate  subjects  of  chi; 
why  be  concerned  with  the  two  empresses?30 

The  chi  and  chuan,  or  annals  and  biographies,  of  the  Hou-han-shu 
originated  in  the  Tunk-kuan.31  The  works  of  Yuan  [Shan-sung]  and 
Chang  [Ying]  are  one-sided,  confused,  and  without  order;  and  those 
of  Hsueh  [Ying]  and  Hsieh  [Ch'eng]  are  full  of  loopholes  and  mis- 
takes and  generally  are  unreliable;  but  those  of  Ssu-ma  Piao  [A.D. 
?-3o6],  which  are  both  comprehensive  and  authentic,  and  those  of 
Hua  Ch'iao,  which  are  both  accurate  and  appropriate,  may  be  con- 
sidered the  crown  of  the  group.32  The  three  great  historical  figures 
of  the  Wei  dynasty33  were  given  chi  treatment  in  some  writings  and 
chuan  in  others.  The  Yang-ch'iu,34  and  Wci-liich35  and  the  Chiang- 
piao36  and  Wu-lu37  are  characterized  alternately  by  emotional  bias 
which  made  them  difficult  to  authenticate,  and  by  perfunctory  and 
loose  treatment,  a  failure  to  grasp  the  essential.  The  three  Records 

30  Referring  to  Empress  Lii,  for  whom  both  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  and  Pan  Ku  wrote  chi, 
and  to  Empress  P'ing,  for  whom  Chang  Heng  proposed  a  chi.  According  to  Liu  Hsieh, 
a  chi  should  be  devoted  to  Tzu-hung  instead  of  to  Empress  Lii,  and  one  to  Ju-tzu  instead 
of  to  Empress  P'ing.  But  Liu  mentioned,  in  fact,  three  empresses.  His  carelessness  sets 
later  scholars  to  wonder  which  two  empresses  are  intended  in  the  final  sentence. 

31  An  academy  where  scholars  did  their  writing,  and  where  the  royal  library  was 
housed. 

32  Yuan  wrote  Hou-han-shu;  Chang,  Hou-han-nan-chi;  Hsueh,  Hou-han-chi;  Hsieh, 
Hou-han-shu.  With  the  exception  of  Hsieh,  who  belonged  to  the  Wu  period,  they  were 
all  of  the  Chin  Dynasty. 

33  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  Liu  Pei,  and  Sun  Ch'uan,  rulers  of  Wei,  Shu,  and  Wu  respectively. 
The  period  is  known  as  the  Three  Kingdoms  period,  extending  roughly  from  220-265. 
In  considering  all  three  as  within  the  framework  of  the  Wei,  Liu  Hsieh  was  apparently 
committed  to  the  view  that  the  Wei  faction  of  the  three  kingdoms  is  to  be  considered 
as  the  legitimate  and  orthodox  dynasty  succeeding  the  Han. 

34  By  Sun  Sheng  (c.  302-373).  The  full  title  is  Wei-shih  Ch'un-ch'iu  (History  of  the 
Wei  Dynasty).  "Ch'un"  was  later  changed  to  "Yang,"  because  the  character  "ch'un"  was 
part  of  the  name  of  Empress  Chien-wen  of  the  Chin,  hence  under  taboo. 

35  A  brief  history  of  the  Wei,  by  Yu  Huan  of  the  Wei. 

36  Historical  records  of  the  Yangtze  valley,  that  is,  the  state  of  Wu,  by  Yii  P'u  of 
the  Chin. 

37  Records  of  Wu,  by  Chang  Po  of  the  Chin. 


90  Historical  Writings 

[of  the  Three  Kingdoms]  by  Ch'en  Shou,38  however,  are  lucid  in  their 
language,  and  sound  in  their  selection  of  material.  Hsiin  and  Chang 
correctly  compared  them  to  the  works  of  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  and  Pan  Ku.39 

Records  about  the  Chin  dynasty  are  numerous.  Lu  Chi  [261-303] 
made  a  start,  but  did  not  cover  the  whole  field.  Wang  Shou[-chih] 
completed  his  own  project,  but  did  not  bring  it  to  the  conclusion 
requested  of  him.40  Kan  Pao  [of  the  Chin]  wrote  Chi,  or  Chin-chi 
which,  because  of  his  good  judgment  in  choosing  the  right  criterion 
for  historical  composition,  has  been  well  praised;41  and  Sun  Sheng's 
Yang-ch'iu  has  been  pronounced  an  able  piece  of  work  on  account  of 
its  conciseness. 

I  have  observed  that  the  writers  of  commentaries  on  the  Classic  of 
Ch'un-ch'iu  formulated  certain  principles  and  general  schemes  gov- 
erning the  writing  of  history.  But  from  Shih  [-chi]  and  Han  [-shu] 
downward,  no  criteria  were  established.  It  was  Teng  Ts'an  [of  the 
Chin]  who  in  his  Chin-chi  first  created  a  set  of  general  principles.  He 
was  able  to  shake  himself  loose  from  the  influence  of  the  Han  and 
the  Wei  and  reach  back  to  the  Yin  and  the  Chou  for  his  principles. 
Although  he  was  a  rustic  scholar  from  the  valley  of  Hsiang,42  he  took 
the  forms  of  tien  and  muAZ  as  his  ideals.  When  An-kuo  [Sun  Sheng] 
later  formulated  his  principles,  he  was  using  the  principles  Teng 
had  prescribed. 

In  writing  a  historical  record,  one  has  to  keep  in  mind  [a  number 

38  The  histories  of  the  three  kingdoms,  Wei,  Shu,  and  Wu,  by  Ch'en  Shou  of  the 
Chin,  233-297. 

39  Chang  refers  to  Chang  Hua,  (232-300),  who  was  known  to  have  great  admiration 
for  Ch'en  Shou.  See  Ch'en's  biography  in  the  Chin-shu.  But  it  is  difficult  to  identify 
Hsiin.  The  only  person  who  comes  to  mind  is  Hsiin  Hsu  (?-289);  however,  he  spoke 
disparagingly  of  Ch'en  (see  Ch'en's  biography).  It  is  barely  possible  that  Hsiin  might 
have  changed  his  opinion  about  Ch'en  over  a  period  of  time. 

40  Wang  Shou-chih,  380-435,  of  Liu-Sung,  using  his  father's  notes  on  the  T'ai-yiian 
(376-396)  and  Lung-an  (397-404)  periods,  wrote  the  Chin  An-ti  Yang-ch'iu  (History 
during  the  reign  of  Emperor  An  of  the  Chin  Dynasty  [397_4°4])-  It  was  so  good  that 
he  was  asked  to  continue  it  to  the  end  of  the  dynasty,  which  lasted  until  419.  But  Wang 
brought  it  up  only  to  the  ninth  year  of  I-hsi,  413. 

41  Kan  followed  Tso-chuan  as  his  example. 

42  Teng  was  from  Ch'ang-sha,  in  modern  Hunan,  watered  by  the  River  Hsiang.  See 
his  biography  in  the  Chin-shu. 

43  See  note  2  above. 


Historical  Writings  91 

of  things] :  the  record  must  include  sources  collected  by  hundreds  of 
authors;  stand  the  test  of  time  for  thousands  of  years;  show  the 
evidences  of  rise  and  decline  of  a  state,  and  demonstrate  the  reasons 
for  its  rise  and  decline;  through  such  a  record  the  institutions  of  a 
dynasty  may  be  made  to  last  as  long  as  the  sun  and  the  moon,  and 
through  it  the  accomplishments  of  a  government,  whether  ruled  by 
moral  suasion  or  by  force,  may  become  as  great  and  lasting  as  heaven 
and  earth.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  at  the  beginning  of  the  Han 
dynasty  the  office  of  historian  was  considered  one  of  extreme  impor- 
tance: all  documents  and  statistical  reports  were  first  collected  in  the 
office  of  the  grand  historian,  the  purpose  being  to  acquaint  him  with 
the  laws  and  institutions  of  the  nation,  and  he  was  expected  to  look 
into  the  stone  building  [the  royal  library]  and  the  metal  [book]  chests 
and  to  unroll  broken  pieces  of  silk  and  examine  fragments  of  bamboo 
slips44  in  order  to  gain  extensive  experience  in  the  art  of  inquiring 
into  antiquity. 

In  forming  ideas  and  selecting  words  to  express  them,  he  was  to 
establish  his  rules  on  the  basis  of  the  Classics;  and  in  giving  encour- 
agement or  warning,  approval  or  disapproval,  he  was  to  rest  on  the 
principles  formulated  by  the  Sage.  For  only  so  would  his  judgments 
be  clear  and  precise,  free  from  both  acrimony  and  unwarranted 
generosity. 

The  chi  is  a  form  of  chronology  and  the  chuan  a  framework  for 
arranging  events;  they  are  not  inconsequential  writings,  but  factual 
records.  However,  when  chronology  stretches  out  too  long,  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  list  with  any  precision  events  happening  either  at  the  same  time 
or  at  a  different  time;  and  when  events  are  accumulated  in  mass,  it 
is  easy  to  be  careless  about  their  beginnings  and  endings.  This  is  why 
it  is  difficult  to  obtain  a  synoptic  view.  Sometime  the  same  achievement 
is  shared  by  many  characters;  if  it  is  recorded  in  every  case,  the  work 
will  suffer  from  redundancy;  and  if  it  is  mentioned  only  once,  the 
work  will  suffer  from  being  perfunctory.  This  is  why  it  is  not  easy  to 
have  a  general  arrangement  of  material.  These  are  the  kinds  of  argu- 

44  Both  silk  and  bamboo  slips  were  writing  materials. 


g2  Historical  Writings 

merits  on  which  were  based  Chang  Heng's  criticisms  of  Shih  [Ch'ien] 
and  Pan  [Ku],  and  Fu  Hsiian's  [217-278]  sarcastic  remarks  about  the 
records  of  the  Later  Han. 

In  recapitulating  the  life  of  the  distant  past,  the  farther  back  the 
past  is,  the  more  chances  there  will  be  that  the  reports  are  unreliable. 
Kung-yang  Kao45  made  the  remark,  "What  is  transmitted  differs  in 
different  versions";46  and  Hsun  K'uang  said,  "Recording  the  distant, 
they  are  neglecting  the  recent."47  As  a  matter  of  fact,  when  in  doubt, 
do  not  record,  because  it  is  essential  to  have  reliable  historical  records. 
However,  people  in  general  love  what  is  strange,  and  pay  no  attention 
either  to  facts  or  to  what  ought  to  be.  In  transmitting  what  they  hear, 
they  magnify  it  in  pompous  style,  and  in  recording  the  distant  past, 
they  describe  it  in  detail.  They  throw  out  what  is  commonplace  and 
pick  out  what  is  unusual,  boring  and  digging  to  find  support  for 
unwarranted  views,  bragging  that  "in  my  book  is  recorded  what 
cannot  be  found  in  earlier  histories."  This  is  the  source  of  all  error 
and  exaggerations,  the  greatest  of  poisonous  influences  in  writing  about 
the  past. 

When  we  come  to  the  treatment  of  contemporaries,  many  facts  are 
often  distorted.  While  Confucius'  judgments  concerning  the  periods 
of  Duke  Ting  and  Duke  Ai48  are  couched  in  subtle  language  [his 
example  is  too  seldom  followed];  secular  opinions  are  still  influenced 

45  Who  wrote  the  Kung-yang  commentary  on  the  Ch'un-ch'iu. 

46  The  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  4/Yin  1/6  Kung;  25/Huan  2/4  Kung; 
487/Ai  14/1  Kung. 

47  This  phrase  is  not  found  in  the  Hsiintzu.  What  is  found  there  is  the  view  that, 
because  of  the  nature  of  circumstances,  an  account  of  the  distant  past  is  necessarily  brief, 
and  that  of  recent  times  is  in  greater  detail.  See  Hsiintzu,  chiian  3,  Chapter  5,  p.  52. 
See  also  Han-shih  wei-chuan  (Hsiieh-tsin  t'ao-yiian  ed.),  chiian  3,  p.  15a.  There  may 
be  a  textual  corruption,  and  the  text  might  be  emendated  to  read  "brief  in  recording 
the  past  and  detailed  in  the  account  of  the  present."  This  would  be  more  in  line  with 
Hsuntzu's  idea  and  also  with  what  follows  in  the  text.  Liu  Hsieh  could  have  misquoted 
Hsiintzu  to  support  his  own  view,  although  the  misquoted  statement,  when  viewed  as 
a  critical  remark,  is  not  necessarily  contrary  to  Hsuntzu's  view. 

48  Duke  Ting,  509-495  B.C.;  Duke  Ai,  494-468  B.C.  They  were  the  last  two  dukes 
of  Lu  treated  in  Confucius'  Ch'un-ch'iu,  who  were  his  contemporaries.  Confucius 
stopped  writing  in  481,  the  fourteenth  year  of  Duke  Ai,  when  he  heard  that  a  unicorn, 
a  symbol  of  sage  government,  was  captured. 


Historical  Writings  93 

by  selfish  interests.  If  the  subject  is  from  a  family  of  great  prestige 
and  honor,  he  tends  to  be  eloquently  adorned,  even  though  he  may 
be  a  mediocrity.  But  should  the  subject  be  a  frustrated  scholar,  all  his 
virtue  will  not  save  him  from  ridicule.  This  blowing  on  the  already 
frostbitten  and  puffing  at  the  already  bedewed,49  or  fabrication  of  hot 
and  cold  with  the  brush  is  a  common  distortion  involved  in  writing 
about  a  contemporary,  and  a  thing  to  be  deeply  deplored.  So  we  see 
that  historical  accounts  of  the  past  are  characterized  by  errors  of  one 
sort,  and  those  of  our  own  times  by  distortion  of  another  kind.  To  be 
able  to  give  a  rational  account  of  a  matter  and  keep  rigidly  to  what 
is  true,  one  has  to  have  a  pure  mind. 

It  is  true  that  Confucius  advocated  giving  honor  to  the  virtuous 
and  protecting  one's  dear  ones  by  hiding  their  faults,  because  a  tiny 
flaw  will  not  disfigure  a  beautiful  jade.  But  straightforward  writing 
by  a  good  historian  consists  [partially]  in  the  censure  of  the  villainous 
and  the  wicked,  just  as  a  farmer  roots  out  weeds  when  he  sees  them. 
This  is  a  principle  which  will  remain  valid  for  all  time.  With  respect 
to  the  art  of  systematically  handling  a  mass  of  material  of  all  sorts, 
with  respect  to  the  importance  of  devoting  oneself  to  the  reliable  and 
getting  rid  of  the  strange,  with  respect  to  understanding  of  proper 
sequence,  and  with  respect  to  the  careful  choice  of  concepts  to  be 
employed  in  dealing  with  the  facts,  one  must  have  a  perfect  grasp  of  the 
general  principle.  With  the  perfect  understanding  of  this  principle,  one 
will  be  able  to  comprehend  systematically  all  the  related  factors. 

Indeed,  the  responsibility  of  a  historian  involves  the  ordering  of  a 
dynasty;  he  is  responsible  to  all  the  people  within  the  boundaries  of 
the  seas,  in  his  shouldering  of  the  burden  of  pronouncing  moral  judg- 
ments. What  other  labor  can  compare  to  this  burden  of  the  writer's  in 
magnitude?  With  all  the  learning  of  [Ssu-ma]  Ch'ien  and  [Pan]  Ku, 
they  have  been  the  subjects  of  criticism  for  generation  after  generation. 
When  one  lets  his  private  prejudices  lead  him  astray,  that  is  the  grave- 
yard of  his  writing. 

49  To  make  one  who  is  cold  feel  colder. 


94  Historical  Writings 

The  Tsan: 

Historical  writing  began  during  the  time  of  the  Yellow  Emperor, 
And  its  form  was  perfected  by  Duke  Chou  and  Confucius. 
History  relates  the  development  of  events  from  generation  to  generation, 
And  it  is  the  final  book  of  judgment  on  what  is  good  and  what  is  evil. 
In  it  the  good  is  honored  and  the  evil  censured, 
An  act  which  stirs  the  soul  of  all  times. 

For  the  beauty  of  historical  writing,  we  go  to  [Tso]  Ch'iu-ming, 
But  for  the  courage  of  calling  a  spade  a  spade,  we  pay  tribute  to  Nan 
[Shih]  and  Tung  [Hu].50 


XVII .  Speculative  Writings 


Speculative  writings  are  works  by  men  who  have  entered  into  the 
realm  of  Tao  and  have  seen  the  Truth.  Of  these  men,  those  of  the 
highest  order  aim  at  the  establishment  of  virtue;  men  of  a  lower  order 
seek  to  immortalize  their  convictions  in  words.1  The  masses  of  people, 
living  in  herds,  are  plagued  by  the  reflection  that  they  are  lost  in  oblivion 

50  Both  Nan  and  Tung  exhibited  great  courage  in  recording  facts.  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching- 
chuang  yin-te,  305/Hsiiang  25/2  Tso:  In  548  B.C.,  Ts'ui  Chu  murdered  Duke  Chuang 
of  Ch'i.  The  historian  put  the  record  in  the  book:  "Ts'ui  Chu  murdered  his  ruler."  He 
was  killed  by  Ts'ui.  The  brother  of  the  historian  picked  up  the  brush  and  wrote  that 
Ts'ui  had  murdered  his  ruler.  He  too  was  killed  by  Ts'ui.  Another  brother  was  also 
killed  by  Ts'ui  for  attempting  to  put  his  regicide  on  record.  When  the  fourth  brother 
came  to  do  his  duty,  Ts'ui  let  him  alone.  At  that  time  Nan  Shih  came  with  his  brush, 
fearing  that  all  the  Ch'i  historians  had  been  killed  and  that  no  one  was  left  to  put  the 
regicide  on  record.  While  on  his  way,  he  heard  that  the  record  had  been  made  and 
returned  home.  Reference  to  Tung  Hu  is  also  found  in  the  same  source,  181/Hsiian 
2/4  Tso:  In  607  B.C.  Chao  Ch'uang  murdered  Duke  Ling  of  Chin.  Chao  Tun  was 
then  the  prime  minister.  To  show  that  the  minister  had  failed  in  his  duty  of  keeping 
order  in  the  state  and  dealing  out  just  punishment  to  the  criminal,  Tung  Hu,  who  was 
the  historian,  wrote  in  the  book  that  Chao  Tun  murdered  his  ruler.  When  Chao  Tun 
tried  to  argue  with  Tung,  he  received  a  severe  moral  lesson. 

1  An  abbreviated  quotation  from  the  Tso-chuan,  where  Shu-sun  Pao,  when  visiting 
Chin,  was  engaged  in  a  discussion  of  immortality.  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching  chuan  yin-te, 
302/Hsiang  24/1  Tso.  The  original  text  gives  three  types  of  immortality:  virtue,  achieve- 
ments, and  words. 


Speculative  Writings  95 

among  their  many  petty  activities;  and  even  gentlemen,  in  finding 
a  place  for  themselves  in  the  world,  are  vexed  that  their  names  and 
virtues  are  not  known.  Only  those  with  outstanding  talents  and  unique 
power  of  comprehension  are  able  to  perpetuate  their  brilliance  in 
words,  so  that  their  names  are  suspended  on  high  like  the  sun  and 
moon.  Feng-hou,  Li-mu,  and  1-yin  were  all  by  men  of  this  type.2  These 
writings  contain  the  words  of  the  ancient  sages  and  were  recorded 
during  the  Warring  States  period.  Yii  Hsiung,  a  man  who  understood 
Tao,  was  an  adviser  to  King  Wen  [of  Chou],  and  his  words  and  the 
records  of  his  life  were  collected  to  form  the  Yiitzu  [or  Master  (Phi- 
losopher) Yii].  The  practice  of  designating  a  work  as  tzu,  or  a  philo- 
sophical or  speculative  work,  began  with  this  Yiitzu.  Then  came 
Po-yang  [or  Laotzu],  an  expert  on  ceremonial  rites,  to  whom  Confucius 
went  for  instruction;  his  speculation  about  tao  and  te  heads  the  list  of 
all  philosophical  works.3  Now,  Yii  [Hsiung]  was  King  Wen's  friend, 
while  Li  [Erh,  that  is,  Laotzu]  was  Confucius'  teacher;  and  from  these 
sages  and  worthies,  all  contemporaries,4  issued  the  two  distinct  streams, 
of  the  Classics  and  the  Tzu,  philosophical  or  speculative  writings.5 

2  See  Han-shu,  "I-wen-chih." 

3  Tao  means  the  first  principle  of  the  world,  and  te  the  particular  principles  of  tao 
which  are  embodied  in  particular  things.  Roughly,  Tao  corresponds  to  the  Platonic 
Idea,  and  te,  to  Plato's  ideas  of  individual  things.  There  was  a  tradition  that  Laotzu, 
when  he  was  about  to  go  into  retirement,  wrote  at  a  friend's  request  a  book  of  five 
thousand  words  known  as  Tao-te-ching  (A  classic  of  Tao  and  Te). 

In  referring  to  Laotzu  as  Confucius'  teacher,  Liu  Hsieh  was  giving  a  view  which 
has  been  repeatedly  questioned  since  Ts'ui  Tung-pi's  Shu-ssa  K'ao-hsin  In  and  Wang 
Chung's  Laotzu  h^ao-i  of  the  Ch'ing  times.  In  modern  times,  with  the  possible  exception 
of  Hu  Shih,  most  scholars  believe  that  the  Tao-te-ching  emerged  in  book  form  during 
the  Warring  States  period,  481-222  B.C.,  and  could  not  have  come  from  Laotzu  who 
gave  Confucius  advice.  As  to  the  authenticity  of  Laotzu  as  a  historical  figure,  nothing 
definite  has  been  established.  In  the  Shih-chi,  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  was  already  uncertain 
about  him.  He  talked  about  at  least  three  different  persons,  and  was  not  sure  whether 
they  were  one  and  the  same  person  who  wrote  Tao-te-ching.  No  further  fact  has 
emerged  since  then  which  could  even  remotely  hint  at  a  possible  solution  of  the 
entangled   problem. 

4  Yii,  who  was  considered  a  worthy,  was  a  contemporary  of  King  Wen,  considered 
a  sage,  and  Li,  a  worthy,  was  a  contemporary  of  Confucius,  a  sage. 

5  Yiitzu  and  Laotzu  are  philosophical  writings,  while  the  Bool{  of  Changes,  in  whose 
completion  King  Wen  had  a  part,  and  the  books  of  Poetry,  History,  Rites,  Music,  and 
the  Ch'un-Ch'iu,  with  which  Confucius  was  considered  by  our  author  as  being  inti- 
mately connected,  are  Classics. 


96  Speculative  Writings 

During  the  period  of  Ch'i-kuo  [the  Warring  States,  480-222  B.C.], 
when  might  was  the  principle  of  government,  able  men  swarmed  like 
bees.  Meng  K'o  [or  Mencius],  who  embraced  Confucianism,  won 
respect;  Chuang  Chou  attained  freedom  and  spontaneity  in  his  eluci- 
dation of  the  Tao;  Mo  Ti  upheld  the  virtues  of  frugality  and  simple 
living;  Yin  Wen  discussed  the  problem  of  correspondence  between 
name  and  fact;  Yeh-lao  based  his  theory  of  government  on  good  utiliza- 
tion of  land,  and  Tsoutzu  [or  Tsou  Yen]  based  his  on  astronomical 
observations;  Shen  [Pu-hai]  and  Shang  [Yang]  instituted  the  laws 
through  the  application  of  the  sword  and  saw  as  instruments  of  punish- 
ment; Kuei-ku  won  success  by  means  of  casuistry;6  Shih  Chiao  was 
versed  in  all  the  miscellaneous  arts;  and  as  for  the  Ch'ing-shih,  it  was 
woven  out  of  the  street  talk  of  the  times.  And  the  works  written  under 
the  influence  of  these  are  numerous.  All  of  them  are  characterized  by 
flights  of  rhetoric  and  moving  artfulness,  and  their  authors  were  over- 
whelmed with  honor  and  glory. 

The  devastating  fire  lighted  by  the  ruthless  Ch'in  emperor  destroyed 
much  ancient  literature;7  it  burnt  more  furiously  than  that  on  the 
ridge  of  a  jade-producing  mount;8  but  its  enveloping  flames  left  the 
writings  of  the  various  philosophers  untouched. 

During  the  reign  of  Emperor  Ch'eng  of  the  Han  [32-7  B.C.],  thought 
was  given  to  the  problem  of  salvaging  books  from  oblivion,  and  Tzu- 
cheng  [or  Liu  Hsiang]  was  entrusted  with  the  task  of  editing  and 
collating  the  variant  texts.  As  a  result,  the  Ch'i-liieh9  give  forth  their 
profuse  fragrance,  and  the  works  of  the  Nine  Schools10  were  collected 

6  This  probably  refers  to  Kuei-ku 's  disciples,  Su  Ch'in  and  Chang  I,  who  became 
prime  ministers  because  of  their  ability  to  persuade  people  to  accept  their  views. 

7  The  first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in,  to  tighten  his  totalitarian  rule,  burnt  in  213  B.C., 
with  few  exceptions,  all  Classics,  histories  of  the  states  he  had  destroyed,  and  works 
which  were  not  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  his  rule.  One  year  later  he  buried  alive 
scholars  who  disputed  his  policy. 

8  Meaning,  the  fire  destroys  at  one  stroke  both  the  jade  and  rocks,  making  no  distinc- 
tion between  what  is  valuable  and  what  is  not,  a  figure  taken  from  the  "Yin-cheng"  in 
the  Boof(  °f  History.  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  09/0204-7.  Liu  changed  the  first  word 
of  the  phrase  without,  however,  changing  the  meaning. 

9  Seven  Epitomes  of  Literature,  which  include  classics,  philosophy,  poetry,  military 
tactics,  divination  and  numerology,  and  the  skills  of  technicians,  including  medical 
practitioners.  See  the  "I-wen  chih"  in  the  Han-shu. 

10  See  note  25,  Chapter  XV, 


Speculative  Writings  97 

and  put  together  like  the  scales  of  a  fish.  After  the  selecting  and 
editing,  there  remained  the  collected  works  of  over  one  hundred  and 
eighty  authors. 

During  the  Wei  and  the  Chin,  many  writers  arose;  they  preserved 
all  of  the  speeches  that  had  gone  unrecorded  and  wrote  down  all  of 
the  miscellaneous  sayings.  These  they  arranged  according  to  categories, 
and  what  they  obtained  filled  their  boxes  and  graced  their  carriages.11 
But  although  a  great  many  sayings  were  accumulated,  their  main 
ideas  can  easily  be  summed  up.  For  all  works  dealing  with  morals  and 
government  developed  out  of  the  five  Classics.  Those  which  are  pure 
conform  to  the  classical  pattern,  and  those  which  are  impure  do  not. 
The  "Yueh-ling"  in  the  Li~chi12  was  the  model  for  the  chi  of  the 
Lu-shih  ch'un-ch'iu^  and  the  chapter  "San-nien-wen-sang"  [Inquiry 
into  the  three  year  mourning,  in  the  Li-chi]  is  described  in  the 
Hsiintzu.14  The  Lil-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  and  the  Hsiintzu  may  be  classified 
as  pure.  But  as  for  minister  [Hsia]  Chi's  talk  about  thunder  in  the 
eyebrow  of  a  mosquito  in  answer  to  a  question  by  T'ang  of  Shang,15 
and  Hui-shih's  answer  to  the  king  of  Liang  about  a  war  fought  between 
two  states  each  occupying  one  antenna  of  a  snail,  leaving  many  dead 
on  the  field,16  and  the  discussion  about  removing  mountains  and  step- 
ping over  the  sea  in  the  Liehtzu11  and  the  story  of  the  fall  of  heaven 

11  People  filled  their  carts  or  carriages  with  books  in  boxes  when  they  traveled. 

12  Listing  the  various  activities  to  be  performed  during  the  twelve  months,  correspond- 
ing to  the  twelve  chi  in  the  Lu-shih  ch'un-ch'iu. 

13  See  note  17,  Chapter  XVI. 

14  See  the  latter  part  of  the  "Li-lun"  (Discourse  on  rites)  in  the  Hsiintzu,  chiian  13, 
Chapter  19. 

15  Liu  Hsieh  refers  here  to  the  Liehtzu,  in  whose  chapter  "T'ang  wen,"  or  "Tang's 
questions,"  a  number  of  absurd  things  are  discussed,  including  the  one  quoted  here. 
Although  Liu  stigmatized  this  and  the  others  he  mentions  as  impure,  many  of  them 
actually  should  be  viewed  as  metaphorical  or  allegorical.  In  the  present  case,  Hsia  Chi 
was  merely  trying  to  show  the  relativity  of  all  things,  and  that  what  appeared  to  man 
to  be  minute  beings,  such  as  mosquitoes,  were  immense  to  other,  more  minute  beings, 
which  could  live  in  a  mosquito's  eyebrow  and  hear  the  rolling  sound  of  thunder. 

16  Found  in  the  "Tse-yang  p'ien"  in  the  Chuangtzu.  See  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  70/25/27: 
A  Ch'u  clan  established  its  state  on  the  left  antenna  of  a  snail,  and  a  Man  clan  on  the 
right.  They  went  to  war,  leaving  tens  of  thousands  of  dead  on  the  field.  The  victors 
followed  the  enemy  in  hot  pursuit  for  five  days  and  then  returned. 

17  Found  in  the  "T'ang  Wen"  in  the  Liehtzu. 


98  Speculative  Writings 

and  collapse  of  the  earth  in  the  Huai-nan-tzu18 — these  are  all  examples 
of  the  impure. 

For  this  reason  the  world  has  always  thought  ill  of  speculative  works 
because  they  are  adulterated  with  empty  and  absurd  discussions.  For 
example,  the  Classic  of  Kuei-tsang19  displays  a  great  array  of  examples 
of  the  unbelievable  and  strange:  there  is  mention  of  I's  shooting  ten 
suns  to  death,  and  the  fleeing  of  Ch'ang-o  to  the  moon.20  If  the  Boo\ 
of  Changes  of  the  Yin  [or  Shang  dynasty]  is  of  this  nature,21  what  can 
one  expect  of  the  rest  of  the  speculative  writings  ?  In  the  Boo\  of  Lord 
Shang  and  the  Han-fei-tzu  respectively  are  discussed  "Six  Lice"22  and 
"Five  Worms,"23  in  which  filial  piety  is  neglected  and  virtue  aban- 
doned. It  was  no  accident  that  Lord  Shang  was  torn  to  pieces  and 
Han  Fei  was  poisoned.24  The  arguments  about  the  white  horse  and 
the  orphaned  calf  by  Kung-sun  [Lung-tzu]  are  exercises  in  casuistry, 
but  they  lack  logical  validity;25  and  it  was  not  without  reason  that  Wei 
Mou  compared  them  to  the  notes  of  the  owl.26  When  Prince  Tung- 
p'ing  asked  to  see  the  speculative  works  and  the  Shih-chi,  the  Han  court 
did  not  grant  him  the  request27  because  the  Shih-chi  contains  a  great 
deal  of  military  strategy  and  the  speculative  works  abound  in  sophistry. 
But  men  of  wide  learning  should  try  to  get  the  gist  of  these  writings, 

18  In  the  "T'ien-wen  hsiin"  in  the  Huai-nan-tzu.  Also  in  Ch'u-tz'u,  "T'ien-wen." 

19  Supposedly  a  divination  book  of  the  Shang  dynasty,  corresponding  to  the  Boo\  of 
Changes  of  the  Chou.  See  note  21  below. 

20  Ch'ang-o,  a  girl,  swallowed  an  immortality  pill;  she  fled  to  the  moon  and  became 
the  goddess  of  the  moon. 

21  There  are  three  books  of  Changes,  all  dealing  with  divination.  That  of  the  Hsia 
is  known  as  Lien-shan,  that  of  Shang  as  Kuei-tsang,  and  that  of  the  Chou  as  Chou-I. 

22  "Six  Lice"  are  discussed  in  two  chapters  in  the  Boo\  of  Lord  Shang,  Chapters  4 
and  20.  They  are  yearly  crops,  food,  good  things,  pleasures,  ambition,  and  career.  Yearly 
crops  and  food  are  the  worries  of  farmers;  good  things  and  pleasures,  the  evil  influences 
of  merchants;  and  ambition  and  career,  the  concerns  of  officials. 

23  "Five  Worms"  is  the  title  of  Chapter  49  in  Han-fei-tzu,  discussing  five  types  of 
evil  forces  which  may  cause  the  downfall  of  a  state  and,  therefore,  should  be  eliminated. 

24  The  death  of  Lord  Shang  is  recorded  in  Chan-\uo  ts'e  (Kuo-hsiieh  chi-pen  ts'ung- 
shu  ed.,  T'aipei),  chiian  3,  p.  15.  Han  Fei's  death  is  recorded  in  his  biography  in  the 
Shih-chi,  "Erh-shih-wu-shih"  (T'aipei,  1956),  chiian  63,  p.  5a. 

25  See  Kung-sun  lung-tzu,  Chapter  2  on  "White  Horse"  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  edition), 
pp.  4-7;  and  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  93/33/77-78. 

26  Ibid.,  45/17/68-77.  But  here  the  comparison  is  made  between  Kung-sun  Lung-tzu 
and  a  frog  in  a  well,  whose  outlook  is  necessarily  limited — not  an  owl. 

27  This  took  place  in  the  first  year  of  King  Hsiian  of  the  Han  dynasty  (73  B.C.). 


Speculative  Writings  99 

giving  a  casual  glance  to  the  flowers  but  enjoying  the  fruits,  weeding 
out  the  false  and  accepting  the  true.  A  panorama  of  all  the  different 
views  contained  in  these  writings  would  be  a  great  scholarly  spectacle. 

After  examination,  we  find  that  the  works  of  Mencius  and  Hsiintzu 
are  characterized  by  their  sound  moral  ideas  and  graceful  style;  those 
of  Kuan  [Chung]  and  Yen  [Ying]  by  the  clarity  of  their  factual 
accounts  and  the  purity  of  their  language;  that  of  Lieh-yii-k'ou  [or 
Lieh  tzu]  by  its  vigorous  spirit  and  wonderful  rhetoric;  that  of  Tsoutzu 
by  its  wild  imagination  and  forceful  expressions;  those  of  Mo-ti  and 
[his  disciple]  Sui-ch'ao  by  the  clarity  of  their  ideas  and  the  simplicity 
of  their  language;  those  of  Shih  Chiao  and  Wei  Liao  by  their  full 
understanding  of  the  arts  and  the  bluntness  of  their  words.  The  Ho- 
\uan-tzu,  continuous  and  unbroken,  contains  deep  utterances,  and  the 
Kuei-\u-tzu,  vast  and  boundless,  returns  to  profound  ideas.  To  articu- 
late his  feelings  with  sparkling  clarity  is  a  special  gift  of  Wentzu; 
Yin-wen  knows  the  secret  of  forging  phrases  which  are  both  terse  and 
refined.  Shen  Tao  was  clever  in  analyzing  intricate  syllogisms,  and 
Han  Fei  was  known  for  his  wealth  of  parables  and  fables.  Lii-shih 
was  prescient  in  ideas  and  perfect  in  style,  and  Huai-nan,  whose 
selection  of  his  materials  was  unusually  broad  and  extensive,  couched 
them  in  beautiful  language.  These  writers  are  the  flowers  of  the 
whole  profession  of  philosophy,  and  the  language  they  employed  is, 
in  general,  the  very  essence  of  literary  writing. 

As  to  Lu  Chia's  Hsin-yti,  Chia  Fs  Hsin-shu,  Yang  Hsiung's  Fa-yen, 
Liu  Hsiang's  Shuo-yiian,  Wang  Fu's  Ch'ien-fu,  Ts'ui  Shih's  Cheng-lun, 
Chung  Ch'angf-t'ung's]  Chang-yen,  and  Tu  I's  Yu-ch'iu,  some  of 
these  are  discourses  on  the  Classics,  while  others  deal  with  the  art  of 
government.  But  although  they  are  all  known  as  lun,  or  discourse,  they 
should  be  classified  as  philosophical  works.  Why?  Because  a  philo- 
sophical treatise  is  concerned  with  a  comprehensive  elucidation  of  all 
things,  while  a  discourse  is  devoted  to  the  study  of  a  specific  subject. 
Therefore,  since  the  works  quoted  here  are  complex  in  subject  matter, 
they  should  be  classified  as  philosophical  treatises.  Prior  to  the  Six 
States  [or  Warring  States]  period,  writers  were  not  very  far  removed 


ioo  Speculative  Writings 

in  time  from  the  Sage,  so  that  they  could  discourse  in  high  style  over 
the  heads  of  their  contemporaries,  and  each  could  open  up  a  new  vista 
for  himself.  The  years  after  the  two  Han  periods  witnessed  a  gradual 
decline  in  vigor  of  this  form  of  writing.  The  writers,  while  perfectly 
clear  about  the  "broad  highway"  [of  the  Confucian  school]  before 
them,28  had  generally  become  dependent  and  eclectic.  This  signalized 
the  gradual  change  taking  place  between  the  time  close  to  the  Sage 
and  that  farther  away. 

Alas!  Only  when  a  man  is  out  of  tune  with  his  times  is  it  possible 
for  his  ideas  and  orthodox  principles  to  find  a  chance  for  expression.29 
He  places  himself  in  his  mind  among  the  ancients  and  transmits  his 
thought  to  people  who  come  thousands  of  years  after  him.  Musical 
instruments  of  metal  and  stone  may  have  perished;  but  must  their 
music  be  silenced  too? 

The  Tsan: 
Men  of  character  have  a  certain  way  of  conducting  themselves  in  the 

world : 
Endowed  as  they  are  with  precious  gifts  and  outstanding  excellence, 
And  with  power  to  bring  all  things  to  expression, 
And  with  intellect  enough  to  comprehend  the  universe. 
They  establish  virtue;  they  allow  nothing  to  remain  hidden;30 
They  instruct,  being  in  possession  of  Tao.31 

They  follow  each  his  own  inclination  in  his  particular  development, 
Because  their  several  fields  are  clearly  delineated. 

28  By  the  time  of  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Early  Han,  the  Confucian  school  had  achieved 
a  position  of  eminence  in  the  thought-life  of  the  Chinese  people. 

29  Philosophers  in  ancient  China  were  often  frustrated  scholars  who,  failing  to  win 
the  ears  of  the  rulers  and  make  themselves  serviceable  to  some  court,  and  consequently 
failing  to  find  a  way  to  put  their  ideas  and  principles  into  practice,  retreated  to  a  quiet 
spot  either  to  teach  or  to  write,  thus  giving  these  ideas  a  better  chance  to  survive. 
Confucius  and  Mencius  are  two  of  the  most  conspicuous  examples. 

30  Liu  Hsieh  was  trying  to  reconcile  the  apparent  difference  of  two  ways  of  life:  one, 
that  of  establishing  virtue,  and  the  other,  that  of  establishing  words.  Liu  attempted  here 
to  make  a  man  of  virtue  also  a  man  of  letters. 

31  Expressing  thought  similar  to  the  previous  line. 


XVIII.  Treatise  and  Discussion  (The  Lun  and  the  Shuo) 


The  principles  propounded  by  the  Sage  are  known  as  ching,  or 
Classics,  and  the  works  which  explain  the  Classics  and  set  forth  their 
underlying  ideas  are  known  as  lun,  or  treatise  or  discourse.  Lun,  or 
to  discourse,  literally  means  lun,  or  to  set  in  order.  If  in  the  process  of 
setting  these  ideas  in  order  one  has  not  gone  amiss,  he  will  have 
succeeded  in  keeping  the  purpose  of  the  Sage  from  failing. 

Long  ago,  the  subtle  words  of  Chung-ni  [or  Confucius]  were 
recorded  by  his  disciples  from  recollection.  With  the  Classics  in  mind, 
they  termed  their  recordings  Lun-yii,  or  the  Analects.  This  was  the 
first  instance  of  the  application  of  the  term  lun  to  all  similar  treatises. 
Prior  to  the  Lun-yii  the  character  lun  did  not  appear  as  a  title  to  any 
Classics.1  May  not  the  two  lun  which  are  found  in  the  Liu-t'ao  have 
been  so  entitled  at  a  later  date?2 

A  study  of  the  genre  lun  reveals  that  it  has  developed  into  many 
types:  when  it  treats  of  government,  its  style  is  in  harmony  with  that 
of  the  i,  or  discourse,  and  shuo,  or  discussion;  when  it  comments  on  the 
Classics,  it  has  the  same  form  as  the  chuan,  or  commentary,  and  chu, 
or  note;  as  a  historical  judgment,  it  is  used  together  with  the  tsan, 
or  generally  complimentary  comment,  and  the  p'ing,  or  critique;  as  an 
attempt  to  elucidate  a  certain  text,  it  is  treated  like  the  hsu,  or  pro- 
logue, and  yin,  or  introduction.  Thus,  i  means  to  talk  properly;  shuo, 
to  speak;  chuan,  to  transmit  the  master's  instruction;  chu,  to  give 
explanatory  notes;  tsan,  to  express  one's  judgment;  p'ing,  to  evaluate 
the  validity  of  arguments;  hsu,  to  give  a  preliminary  arrangement  of 

1  The  text  originally  runs:  "Prior  to  the  Lun-yii  the  character  lun  did  not  appear  in 
any  Classics."  But  in  the  light  of  the  context,  Liu  Hsieh  must  have  meant  that  no  works 
about  the  Classics  had  been  termed  lun,  as  Fan  Wen-Ian  contends.  Moreover,  the 
character  lun  is  found  in  the  Boo\  of  History  and  the  Chou-li. 

2  The  Liu-t'ao  is  a  treatise  on  strategy  attributed  to  Lu  Shang,  assistant  to  King  Wu 
of  Chou.  The  modern  edition  does  not  contain  the  term  lun  as  part  of  two  titles  as 
indicated  by  Liu  here.  From  Chang-huai  T'ai-tzu's  commentary  to  the  biography  of 
Ho  Chin,  in  the  Hou-han  shu,  we  know  that  the  term  still  occurred  at  that  time  as 
part  of  the  first  and  second  chapters.  We  do  not  know  when  the  text  became  corrupt. 


102  Treatise  and  Discussion 

things;  and  yin,  a  preface,  or  foreword.  They  are  eight  distinct  forms, 
but  all  have  the  same  ultimate  import  as  the  lun.  Lun  means  to  take 
into  consideration  a  variety  of  statements  for  the  purpose  of  examining 
minutely  a  specific  idea.  Therefore,  Chuang  Chou  [or  Chuangtzu] 
entitled  his  chapter  on  the  equality  of  all  things  lun,  and  in  the 
Ch'un-ch'iu  of  [Lii]  Pu-wei,  there  is  an  orderly  arrangement  of  six 
lun?  The  discussions  on  the  Classics,  once  held  at  Shih-ch'ii  palace 
[a  royal  library,  in  51  B.C.]  and  once  in  Pai-hu  hall  [in  A.D.  79]  were 
participated  in  by  a  group  of  scholars,  the  results  of  whose  discussions 
were  entitled  luny  a  most  proper  designation.  Pan  Piao's  "Wang-ming 
[lun]"  and  Yen  Yu's  "San-chiang  [-chiin  lun]"  give  a  vivid  expression 
of  their  thought,  and  may  be  included  in  the  genre  of  historical  writing. 
During  the  period  when  the  Wei  first  came  into  power,  logic  and 
law  were  the  studies  of  the  day.  Fu  Ku  [209-255]  and  Wang  Ts'an 
were  experts  in  the  logical  analysis  of  name  and  reason.  By  the  time  of 
Cheng-shih  [240-248],  literature  became  the  first  concern.  It  was  Ho  Yen 
[?-249]  and  his  group,  however,  who  were  responsible  for  beginning 
the  writing  of  the  metaphysical  treatises.  At  this  time,  Tan  [or  Laotzu] 
and  Chou  [or  Changtzu]  came  into  focus  and  competed  with  Ni-fu  [or 
Confucius]  for  the  highway.  The  "Ts'ai-hsing"  of  Lan-shih  [or  Fu 
Ku],4  the  "Ch'ii-fa"  of  Chung-hsiian  [or  Wang  Ts'an],5  the  analysis 
of  sound  by  Shu-yeh  [or  Hsi  K'ang],6  the  "Pen-hsuan"  of  T'ai-ch'u 
[or  Hsia-hou  Hsiian],7  the  two  "Elucidations"  of  Fu-ssu  [or  Wang 
Pi],8  and  the  two  treatises  of  P'ing-shu  [or  Ho  Yen]9  are  all  the  results 
of  profound  and  unique  insights,  original  with  each  author,  and  all 

3  See  note  12,  Chapter  XVI. 

4  A  treatise  on  talent.  See  his  biography  in  "Wei-chih." 

5  On  the  elimination  of  self-conceit.  The  treatise  has  not  been  preserved. 

6  A  treatise  on  the  theme  that  human  voice  has  no  intrinsic  quality  expressing  sadness 
or  happiness.  See  his  collected  works. 

7  On  the  originally  mysterious.  The  character  "hsiian,"  meaning  mysterious,  seems 
to  be  a  clerical  error.  According  to  all  other  available  sources,  it  should  be  "wu,"  meaning 
nothingness.  The  treatise  deals  with  the  Taoist  concept  of  nothingness  or  void.  See 
his  biography  in  the  "Wei-chih,"  in  the  San-\uo  chih,  and  also  Chang's  commentary 
in  the  "Chung-ni  p'ien"  in  the  Liehtzu. 

8  Only  one  is  recorded,  "The  Elucidation  of  the  Boo\  of  Changes,"  although  he  wrote 
commentaries  on  both  the  Book.  °f  Changes  and  Laotzu. 

9  On  two  important  Taoist  concepts:   nonaction  and  the  unnamable. 


Treatise  and  Discussion  103 

are  characterized  by  penetrating  and  sparkling  arguments  creating 
logic  that  is  close-knit  and  flawless.  These  authors  were  indeed  men 
of  outstanding  talents. 

Then  we  have  Li  K'ang's  "Yun-ming  [lun],"10  which  deals  with  a 
theme  similar  to  that  dealt  with  in  the  Lun-heng11  but  surpasses  the 
latter  in  quality,  and  Lu  Chi's  "Pien-wang,"12  which  was  modeled 
after  the  pattern  of  the  "Kuo-ch'in  [lun],"13  but  fell  short  of  it.  How- 
ever, both  pieces  may  be  considered  beautiful. 

In  the  Sung  dynasty  [420-479]  Kuo  Hsiang,  whose  mystical  insight 
penetrated  the  realm  of  the  mysterious,14  and  I-fu  [or  Wang  Yen] 
and  P'ei  Wei,  who  had  a  controversy  over  the  problem  of  being  and 
nonbeing15  dominated  their  day,  leaving  their  names  behind  them. 
However,  those  who  saw  only  the  principle  of  being  were  tied  to 
physical  manifestations;  while  those  emphasizing  nonbeing  confined 
themselves  to  the  silent  and  the  void.  Each  may  have  had  a  penetrating 
vision  of  one  aspect  of  the  problem,  but  neither  group  arrived  at  the 
final  truth.  May  not  the  condition  in  which  one's  thought  is  able  to 
penetrate  the  source  of  the  mystery  be  the  ultimate  state  of  prajna}16 
The  common  discussions  during  the  period  of  the  Eastern  Chin  were 
all  centered  around  metaphysical  subjects.  Although  not  a  day  lacked 
its  new  arguments,  the  principles  were  taken  from  previous  writers. 

As  to  Chang  Heng's  "Chi-shih,"  which  reads  like  a  piece  of  comic 

10  On  fate,  of  which  the  main  themes  are:  peace  or  confusion  are  the  result  of  natural 
evolution;  one's  life,  whether  frustrated  or  successful,  the  result  of  fate;  and  honor  or 
humble  station,  the  result  of  accidents  in  time. 

11  By  Wang  Ch'ung  of  the  Later  Han,  c.  A.D.  27-100. 

12  Expressing  the  idea  that  Wu,  one  of  the  three  kingdoms  where  Lu's  family  was  a 
very  prominent  one,  should  not  have  fallen  to  the  Chin. 

13  The  faults  of  the  Ch'in,  by  Chia  I  of  the  Early  Han. 

14  Kuo,  A.D.  P-3I2,  wrote  a  commentary  on  the  Chuangtzu. 

15  Wang,  255-311,  a  Taoist  scholar,  advocated  that  nonbeing  was  the  first  principle 
of  things;  while  P'ei,  267-300,  a  Confucian,  wrote  an  essay  adhering  to  the  principle 
of  being.  However,  during  this  period,  a  controversy  such  as  this  usually  took  on  a 
Buddhist  tinge. 

16  Prajna  means  wisdom  or  understanding,  which  is  the  principal  means,  by  its  en- 
lightenment, of  attaining  to  nirvana.  Liu  Hsieh  was  a  Buddhist  scholar,  and  took  the 
Buddhist  vow  shortly  before  he  died.  However,  in  the  Wen-hsin,  this  is  the  only  occasion 
on  which  we  find  him  using  a  Buddhist  term  explicitly. 


104  Treatise  and  Discussion 

writing,  K'ung  Yung's  "Hsiao-lien,"  which  indulges  in  satires,17  and 
Ts'ao  Chih's  "Pien-tao,"  which  looks  like  a  copybook,18  these  are  not 
written  in  the  orthodox  terms,  and  it  seems  better  that  no  lun  of  this 
type  be  written  at  all. 

As  a  genre,  the  lun  performs  the  function  of  establishing  what  is 
true  and  what  is  not.  It  goes  over  all  available  tangible  evidence  and 
pursues  truth  to  the  realm  of  the  intangible.  It  bores  hard  to  get  under- 
standing and  drops  its  hook  deep  to  obtain  profundity.  It  is  the  "net 
and  hoof"  of  all  thought,  and  it  is  also  the  measure  of  all  things.19 
Hence  its  ideological  content  should  be  coherent  and  its  language  free 
from  verbosity;  it  should  bring  the  mind  and  the  reason  together  in 
perfect  accord  and  leave  no  sign  of  patchwork  in  the  organization; 
the  expressions  it  employs  should  be  so  intimately  coordinated  with 
the  thought  that  the  enemy  is  baffled  as  to  where  to  attack.  In  these 
qualities  consists  the  essence  of  the  lun.  In  a  lun,  it  is  as  if  one  were 
splitting  wood;  the  main  thing  is  to  split  it  according  to  its  grain. 
When  the  axe  is  sharp  it  often  cuts  across  the  grain;  just  so,  when 
one's  language  is  clever,  he  often  violates  the  reason  in  order  to 
rationalize  and  reach  an  understanding.  Sometimes  a  lun  may  appear 
to  be  a  clever  piece  on  the  score  of  its  language,  but  in  view  of  the 
evidence  it  adduces  it  will  be  seen  to  be  absurd.  Only  a  man  of  virtue  is 
able  to  comprehend  the  desire  of  the  people  of  the  world.  Why  should 
one  resort  to  sophistry  in  writing  a  lun  ? 

As  to  commentaries,  in  these  the  lun  perforce  disintegrates  as  a 
genre,  although  throughout  the  wide  variety  of  such  miscellaneous 
writings  the  ultimate  purport  remains  the  same.  However,  the  com- 
mentary by  Ch'in  Yen-chlin  [or  Ch'in  Kung]  on  the  "Yao-tien"  runs 
to  over  one  hundred  thousand  words  and  Chu  P'u's  on  the  Boo\  of 
History  to  three  hundred  thousand.  Men  of  learning,  impatient  with 
such  wordy  details,  have  kept  themselves  clear  of  laboring  with  philo- 

17  Neither  piece  is  preserved. 

18  Quoting  and  refuting  fantastic  stories  from  the  religious  Taoists,  who  believed  in 
the  immortality  of  man  and  the  effect  of  an  elixir  of  life. 

19  The  figures  of  the  net  and  the  hoof  are  taken  from  the  Chuangtzu,  where  they  are 
used  as  external  symbols  for  the  capturing  of  the  inner  mystery  of  things. 


Treatise  and  Discussion  105 

logical  and  textual  problems.  Nevertheless,  the  philological  elucidation 
of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  by  Master  Mao,20  the  commentary  on  the  Boo\ 
of  History  by  [K'ung]  An-kuo  [of  the  Early  Han],  the  commentary 
by  Cheng  [Hsiian]  on  the  Boo\  of  Rites,  and  Wang  Pi's  commentary 
on  the  Boo\  of  Changes  are  precise  and  illuminating.  These  may  be 
considered  paragons  of  the  lun  as  commentary. 

The  character  shuo,  or  to  speak  or  to  discuss,  has  the  sense  or 
meaning  of  yiieh,  or  to  please.21  And  as  tui,  or  to  please,  is  a  mouth 
and  tongue  [according  to  the  "Shuo-kua"  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes], 
then  the  way  to  please  is  by  means  of  one's  words.  But  when  one's 
attempt  to  please  goes  beyond  his  actual  state  of  feeling,  he  is  guilty 
of  hypocrisy.  For  this  reason  Shun  abhorred  flattery.  Some  of  the 
fine  examples  of  shuo  are  I  Yin's  talk  on  taste,  which  was  responsible 
for  the  prosperous  rule  of  the  Yin  [or  Shang],22  T'ai-kung's  discussion 
on  fishing,  which  caused  the  Chou  to  rise,23  the  diplomatic  speech  of 
Chu  Wu  [or  Chu  Chih-wu],  which  relieved  Cheng  of  impending 
invasion,24  and  the  persuasive  address  of  Tuan-mu  [Tz'u,  or  Tzu-kung], 
which  saved  Lu.25 

During  the  Warring  States  period  [481-222  B.C.]  sophists  rose  like 
clouds.  They  indulged  in  the  so-called  "vertical  and  horizontal  in- 
trigues,"26 and  competed  in  what  have  been  termed  the  "long  and 

20  There  were  two  scholars  by  the  name  of  Mao  who  specialized  in  the  Boo\  of 
Poetry:  the  Great  Mao,  whose  personal  name  was  Heng,  and  the  Lesser  Mao,  whose 
name  was  Ch'ang.  The  former  flourished  during  the  Six  States  period  and  was  responsible 
for  the  commentary  on  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  which  was  later  handed  down  to  the  latter, 
who  lived  in  the  Early  Han. 

21  The  character  shuo  is  composed  of  two  elements:  yen  (to  speak)  on  the  left,  and 
tui  (to  please)  on  the  right.  Hence  shuo  has  two  senses:  to  speak  or  to  please.  Later, 
the  yen  radical  is  replaced  by  a  heart  radical,  when  it  is  taken  to  mean  "to  please"  and  is 
pronounced  yiieh.  But  the  original  form  persists,  though  its  pronunciation  is  identical 
with  yiieh,  when  it  means  "to  please." 

22  I  Yin,  a  minister  of  T'ang  of  the  Shang,  used  taste,  the  aim  of  culinary  art,  as  a 
parable  to  illustrate  the  quality  of  good  government.  See  note  90,  Introduction. 

23  See  Shih-chi,  "Ch'i  T'ai-kung  Shih-chia." 

24  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,   138/Hsi  30/6  Tso. 

25  A  disciple  of  Confucius.  See  Shih-chi,  biographies  of  the  disciples  of  Confucius. 

26  Under  the  leadership  of  Chang  I,  an  intrigue  was  put  into  operation  to  persuade 
the  six  states  to  line  up  in  support  of  the  state  of  Ch'in,  which  is  known  as  heng,  or 
horizontal   alliance;   and   under  that  of  Su   Ch'in,   the  states   were  persuaded   to   form 


106  Treatise  and  Discussion 

short  tactics."27  The  "Chuan-wan"  charges  forward  with  its  clever 
phrases,  and  the  "Fei-ch'ien"  is  the  embodiment  of  tactical  dexterity.28 
The  eloquence  of  one  man  was  more  weighty  than  the  precious  nine 
tripods;  a  tongue  three  inches  long  was  stronger  than  a  million  troops.29 
Brilliant  and  scintillating,  [Su  Ch'in]  carried  the  six  seals;30  rich  and 
opulent,  [Chang  I]  was  enfeoffed  with  five  cities.31 

After  the  Han  had  disposed  of  Ch'in  and  Ch'u,32  the  sophists  slowed 
their  pace.  Li  [I-chi,  ?-203  B.C.]  was  boiled  alive  in  Ch'i;33  and  K'uai 
T'ung  barely  escaped  the  Han  cauldron.34  Although  we  have  Lu  Chia, 

a  league  in  opposition  to  the  state  of  Ch'in,  which  is  known  as  tsung,  or  vertical 
federation. 

27  The  "long  and  short  tactics"  refers  to  the  tactics  adopted  by  the  warring  states  in 
upsetting  one  another's  plans,  tactics  which  were  somewhat  Machiavellian  in  character. 
In  his  preface  to  the  Chan-\no  ts'e  (The  tactics  of  the  warring  states),  Liu  Hsiang  of 
the  Han  said  that  "kuo-ts'e"  (state  tactics)  were  also  known  as  "tuan-ch'ang"  (the  short 
and  the  long).  Chan-\uo  t'se,  "Preface,"  p.  i.  Liu  Hsieh  in  Chapter  XVI  interpreted 
ts'e  as  "bamboo  slips,"  and  Chan-\uo  t'se  as  "records  of  the  warring  states."  See  p.  86. 
But  Liu  Hsiang  apparently  took  the  term  ts'e  in  a  different  sense,  meaning  tactics.  Here 
Liu  Hsieh  seems  to  have  the  same  idea  in  mind,  although  the  term  ts'e  does  not 
actually  appear. 

28  "Chuan-wan"  and  "Fei-ch'ien"  are  two  chapters  in  Kuei-\u-tzu,  on  techniques  of 
roughly  Machiavellian  character.  Kuei-ku-tzu  was  the  teacher  of  Su  Ch'in  and  Chang  I, 
leaders  of  vertical  federation  and  horizontal   alliance,  respectively. 

29  See  Shih-chi,  biography  of  Prince  P'ing-yiian.  Mao  Sui,  a  guest  in  the  household 
of  Prince  P'ing-yiian  of  the  state  of  Chao,  by  sheer  talking,  persuaded  the  king  of  Ch'u 
to  come  to  Chao's  rescue,  when  the  latter  was  attacked  by  the  state  of  Ch'in.  The  prince 
spoke  of  his  eloquence  as  more  weighty  than  the  nine  tripods,  and  of  his  three-inch  tongue 
as  stronger  than  a  million  troops. 

30  Su  was  entrusted  with  the  premiership  by  the  rulers  of  the  six  states  in  cementing 
the  vertical  federation  against  Ch'in.  The  seal  was  emblematic  of  the  premiership. 

31  Chang's  policy  to  form  a  horizontal  alliance  to  support  Ch'in  was  so  successful 
that  Ch'in  made  him  this  enfeoffment  in  gratitude. 

32  The  Ch'in  was  destroyed  in  207  B.C.  by  the  combined  forces  of  Han  and  Ch'u. 
In  the  ensuing  struggle  between  Han  and  Ch'u,  which  lasted  until  202  B.C.,  Han 
emerged  as  the  victor  and  established  a  new  dynasty. 

33  With  powerful  eloquence,  Li  succeeded  in  persuading  the  ruler  of  Ch'i  to  surrender 
more  than  seventy  cities  to  Han  without  shooting  an  arrow.  But  another  general  of  Han, 
Han  Hsin,  ?-200  B.C.,  goaded  by  K'uai  T'ung,  attacked  Ch'i,  partly  for  the  purpose 
of  occupying  the  territory  of  Ch'i,  and  partly  for  the  destruction  of  Li  I-chi.  Having 
been  softened  by  Li's  talk,  Ch'i  was  an  easy  prey.  However,  Li  was  boiled  alive  by  Ch'i, 
as  Han  Hsin's  attack  made  him  a  conspirator.  This  took  place  in  204  B.C. 

34  Later  K'uai  T'ung  persuaded  Han  Hsin  to  revolt  against  the  Han.  When  Han  Hsin 
was  about  to  be  executed,  he  deplored  the  fact  that  he  had  not  listened  to  K'uai  T'ung. 
On  hearing  this,  Kao-tsu,  the  first  emperor  of  the  Han,  ordered  K'uai  to  be  boiled 
alive.  But  K'uai  was  spared  when  he  made  the  point  that  at  the  time  when  he  persuaded 
Han  Hsin  to  revolt,  the  situation  of  the  empire  was  still  unsettled.  Anybody  was  entitled 
to  his  ambition.  And  it  was  entirely  due  to  Han  Hsin's  stupidity  and  unwillingness  to 


Treatise  and  Discussion  107 

famed  for  his  literary  ability,  Chang  Shih  [-chih],  so  effective  in  his 
discourse,  Tu  Ch'in,  lucid  in  his  literary  expression,  and  Lou  Hu  with 
his  eloquence,  some  proudly  making  their  points  on  the  steps  of  the 
royal  court  and  some  "attacking  the  defective"35  at  the  table  of  the 
nobles,  they  all  tended  to  bend  with  the  wind,  and  none  dared  go 
upstream  against  the  flow.  The  important  thing  in  employing  the  shuo, 
or  discussion,  is  to  grasp  the  opportune  moment,  sometimes  discussing 
with  leisurely  ease  and  sometimes  with  tension;  further,  the  shuo  need 
not  always  be  effected  in  speech,  for  it  can  also  be  executed  in  writing. 
Fan  Sui's  [letter  to  King  Chao  of  Ch'in],  discussing  affairs  of  state, 
and  Li  Ssu's  [memorial  to  the  first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in],  arguing 
against  the  latter's  order  to  get  rid  of  all  guest  ministers,  drive  home 
the  important  points,  and  every  word  in  them  hits  the  right  mark. 
Although  [in  tendering  these  memorials  both  men]  were  touching 
the  reversed  scales  [of  the  dragon],36  they  succeeded  in  putting  over 
their  ideas.  These  may  be  considered  the  best  examples  of  shuo  as 
embodied  in  memorials.  Tsou  Yang's  attempts  to  warn  Prince  Wu 
and  Prince  Liang  were  expressed  in  clever  metaphors  and  irrefutable 
arguments;  therefore,  although  in  danger,  he  came  out  unscathed.  But 
Ching-t'ung's  [or  Feng  Yen's]  addresses  to  influence  the  minds  of  Pao 
[Yung]  and  Teng  [Yu]  are  slow  in  narrative  and  progression  and 
verbose  in  language,  so  that  in  all  his  attempts  he  failed  to  win 
confidence.37 

The  crucial  requirement  in  a  shuo  is  to  present  at  an  opportune 
moment  ideas  which  are  crystal-clear  and  true.  Positively,  one's  ability 
in  the  art  of  shuo  should  help  him  execute  his  duty  with  success;  and 
negatively,  it  may  enable  him  to  avoid  disgrace.  Except  when  dealing 
with  a  deceitful  enemy,  its  principles  have  always  been  loyalty  and 

listen  to  advice  that  Han  Hsin  had  met  his  sorrowful  fate  and  Kao-tsu  had  become 
what  he  was.  See  Han  Hsin's  biography  in  the  Shih-chi. 

35  "Attacking  the  Defective"  is  a  chapter  in  the  Kuei-\n-tzu,  pointing  out  the  im- 
portance of  detecting  and  attacking  any  defects  that  we  might  have  and  planning  to 
mend  them. 

36  It  is  certain  death  to  touch  the  reversed  scales  of  a  dragon.  This  figuratively  expresses 
being  caught  in  a  fit  of  anger  of  the  ruler,  aroused  by  adverse  criticism. 

37  See  his  biography  in  the  Hon-han-shu. 


io8  Treatise  and  Discussion 

truthfulness.  In  it  one  opens  his  heart  before  the  ruler  and  conveys 
his  ideas  in  winged  words.  These  are  the  fundamentals  of  a  shuo. 
Master  Lu  [Chi]  spoke  of  shuo  as  "brilliant  and  yet  deceitful";38 
one  might  well  ask,  Why? 

The  Tsan: 
Logical  reason  takes  form  in  words, 
And  their  account  of  this  reason  forms  a  lun. 
Words  probing  the  depths  of  man  and  nature 
Reach  far,  though  originating  in  the  "square  inch"   [of  the  human 

heart].39 
Whether  the  prospect  is  dark  or  bright,  [a  lun  writer]  follows  one 

single  principle, 
And  without  evasion  faces  the  ghosts  and  spirits. 
Exercising  control  through  speech, 
Exhaling  and  inhaling,  he  restrains  and  encourages. 


XIX.  Edict  and  Script  (The  Chao  and  the  Ts'e) 


Translator  s  note:  From  the  text  of  this  chapter,  it  seems  obvious  that  no 
one  of  the  terms  used  to  stand  for  different  types  of  writing  has  a  specific 
sense  in  which  it  is  used  consistently  in  different  contexts;  and  it  is  also 
obvious  that  our  author  made  no  attempt  to  clarify  this  confusion.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  this  tendency  to  treat  a  term,  which  has  many  senses,  as  if 
it  had  only  one  sense,  and  to  raise  it  to  the  status  of  a  genre,  while  using 
it  as  inconsistently  as  it  originally  was  used  in  different  settings,  is  one  of 
the  major  faults  of  Liu  Hsieh,  against  which  we  have  a  legitimate  com- 
plaint. Mark  how  the  terms  chao  and  ts'e  are  treated  in  this  chapter.  At 
first  they  are  treated  as  if  they  were  technical  terms,  serving  to  designate 
specific  types  of  writing.  But  as  we  go  along,  we  find  to  our  grief  that 

38  A  line  from  Lu  Chi's  Wen-ju.  See  note  13,  "Preface." 

39  The  ancient  Chinese,  like  Aristotle,  believed  the  human   heart  to  be   the  seat  of 
reasoning. 


Edict  and  Script  109 

in  addition  to  using  chao  specifically  as  a  royal  pronouncement,  the  author 
also  uses  it  as  a  general  term  for  all  royal  edicts;  and  the  term  ts'e,  in  addi- 
tion to  being  used  as  a  script  of  enfeoffment,  is  also  used  to  mean  writings 
in  general.  The  same  is  true  with  the  terms  chih,  ch'ih,  \ao,  ming,  etc.  This 
seems  to  have  originated  from  a  deliberate  policy  of  ignoring  the  semantic 
distinction  between  different  senses  of  a  term,  and  of  effecting  by  means  of 
ambiguity  a  loose  and  easy  flow  in  literary  associations  of  ideas.  This  ex- 
plains in  part  the  unscientific  manner  in  which  the  genres  are  classified. 
They  are  neither  mutually  exclusive  nor  independently  comprehensive.  We 
find,  for  example,  the  genre  of  poetry  discussed  in  Chapters  V,  VI,  VII, 
and  VIII.  The  genre  lun  is  discussed  specifically  in  Chapter  XVIII;  but  it 
is  also  touched  upon  in  Chapters  III,  IV,  V,  XVII,  and  many  others.  In 
Chapter  XVII  the  lun  is  defined  as  a  discourse  devoted  to  the  study  of  a 
specific  subject;  and  works  by  Lu  Chia,  Chia  I,  Yang  Hsiung,  Liu  Hsiang, 
Wang  Fu,  Ts'ui  Shih,  Chung  Ch'ang-t'ung,  and  Tu  I  are  classified  as 
philosophical  writings,  in  spite  of  their  having  been  named  as  lun,  because 
some  of  them  discourse  on  the  Classics.  But  in  Chapter  XVIII,  the  lun 
includes  not  only  philosophical  works  by  the  Taoists  of  the  Wei  and  Chin, 
but  also  Mao's  commentary  on  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  K'ung  An-kuo's  com- 
mentary on  the  Boo\  of  History,  Cheng  Hsiian's  commentary  on  the  Boo\ 
of  Rites,  and  Wang  Pi's  commentary  on  the  Boo\  of  Changes — a  direct 
contradiction  by  Liu  Hsieh  of  his  own  statement  in  the  previous  chapter. 
Here  then,  we  find  the  major  task  of  a  student  of  Chinese  literary  criticism: 
to  try  to  penetrate  beyond  the  veil  of  literary  terminology  and  feel  his  way 
through  the  labyrinth  of  the  minds  of  Chinese  authors,  which  are  very 
inadequately  expressed  in  words.  Thus  we  may  also  find  out  why  it  is  not 
possible  for  the  ancients  to  do  otherwise,  and  we  may  see  the  necessity  of 
intuitive  insight  so  often  insisted  upon  by  them  and  so  clearly  demonstrated 
by  Chuangtzu  in  numerous  figures,  parables,  and  anecdotes.  Perhaps  one 
has  to  be  a  mystic  before  one  can  really  understand  the  minds  of  the  ancient 
Chinese  authors. 

As  an  emperor  rules  over  his  empire,  his  words  have  a  mysterious 
effect.  Though  he  himself  remains  deep  and  silent  in  front  of  an 
embroidered  screen,1  his  voice  is  heard  to  the  limits  of  the  four  borders. 
To  accomplish  this,  he  depends  on  the  chao,  or  edict,  and  the  ts'e,  or 
script.  Long  ago,  during  the  time  of  the  Yellow  Emperor,  of  T'ang 

1  The  ruler  sits  before  the  embroidered  screen,  which  becomes  a  symbol  of  the  royal 
personage. 


no  Edict  and  Script 

[or  Yao],  and  of  Yii  [or  Shun],  all  royal  pronouncements  were  called 
ming,  which  means  "the  authority  which  defines  nature."2  During 
the  period  of  the  Three  Dynasties  [Hsia,  Shang,  and  Chou],  the  ming 
had  the  further  function  of  a  proclamation  or  an  oath.  An  oath  was 
used  in  connection  with  the  conduct  of  military  affairs,  and  a  proclama- 
tion in  connection  with  the  prosecution  of  governmental  activities. 
The  ming,  or  mandate,  is  revealed  by  heaven;  hence,  it  is  employed 
for  appointing  officers  and  conferring  blessings.  Under  the  hexagram 
of  hou  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes,  it  is  said,  "The  ruler  despatches  his 
ming  to  be  proclaimed  to  the  four  directions."3  The  mandate  thus  pro- 
claimed would  stir  the  people  as  the  wind  under  heaven  stirs  the  grass.4 
Later,  during  the  Seven  States  period,  the  term  ling  was  used.  It  means 
"to  commission."  When  the  Ch'in  unified  the  empire,  the  term  ming 
was  dropped  and  in  its  place  chih,  or  to  institute,  was  used.  In  the 
early  years  of  the  Han  when  rules  and  regulations  were  first  formu- 
lated, the  ming  were  classified  under  four  categories:  the  tse-shu,  or 
script  of  enfeoffment;  the  chih-shu,  or  ordinance;  the  chao-shu,  or 
pronouncement;  and  the  chieh-ch'ih,  or  warning.  The  "royal  warning" 
was  issued  to  the  local  officials;  the  "royal  pronouncement"  was  issued 
to  the  hundred  central  officials;  the  "ordinance"  was  issued  to  declare 
an  amnesty,  and  the  "royal  script"  was  issued  to  invest  princes  and 
lords  with  fiefs.  The  term  tse,  or  script,  has  the  literal  meaning  "a 
bamboo  slip";  chih,  or  ordinance,  "to  institute";  chao,  or  pronounce- 
ment, "to  proclaim";  and  ch'ih,  or  warning,  "to  correct."  The  Boo\ 
of  Poetry  says,  "Reverence  this  bamboo  slip";5  the  Boo\  of  Changes 
says,  "Men  of  virtue  on  the  basis  of  this  [image  of  limitation]  institute 
measures  and  regulations";6  the  Chou-li  speaks  of  the  proclamation  of 

2  According  to  Fan  Wen-Ian,  hsing  (nature)  should  be  emendated  to  read  hsing 
(surname),  because  in  ancient  China  only  a  noble  had  a  surname;  each  was  granted  by 
the  ruler.  Hence,  the  term  "pai-hsing"  (one  hundred  names)  meant  "one  hundred 
officers."  However,  there  does  not  seem  to  be  any  necessity  for  this  reading.  In  Li-chi 
(see  Li-chi  yin-te,  31  /i)  it  is  stated,  "Heavenly  mandate,  or  ming,  is  called  nature,  or 
hsing."  It  makes  perfect  sense  to  think  of  royal  pronouncements  as  defining  the  nature 
of  each  function  or  appointment. 

3  Chou-i  yin-te,  27/44/hsiang.  4  Lun-yii  yin-te,  24/12/19. 

5  Mao-shih  yin-te,  36/168/4.  6  Chou-i  yin-te,  36/60/hsiang. 


Edict  and  Script  1 1 1 

an  enlightened  ruler;7  and  the  Boo\  of  History  speaks  of  "keeping 
oneself  correct  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  mandate  of  heaven";8  all  these 
terms  are  grounded  in  the  Classics.  The  restriction  of  the  use  of  chao> 
or  proclamation,  to  "reach  afar"  and  that  of  ming,  or  oral  dictate,  to 
"control  the  near"  are  practices  instituted  in  the  Ch'in.  The  Li-chi 
says  [that  "the  words  of  a  ruler  are  like]  silk  [fibers,  when  unspoken] 
and  like  thread  [when  spoken],9  and  these  words  are  instruments  for 
the  successful  management  of  the  ruler's  relations  with  the  various 
chieftains.  Yii  [Shun]  emphasized  the  importance  of  the  office  whose 
responsibility  it  was  to  receive  the  ruler's  words,10  and  the  Chou  con- 
sidered that  office  the  throat  and  tongue  of  the  kings.11  The  two  Han, 
therefore,  made  responsibility  for  the  chao-\ao>  or  pronouncement  and 
proclamation,  part  of  the  office  of  the  grand  historian.  The  words 
spoken  by  the  king  were  always  set  down  in  the  historical  records,  for 
when  spoken,  the  words  of  the  king  become  rope12  and,  like  sweat, 
once  out  they  can  never  be  recalled.13  Therefore,  Emperor  Wu  [of 
Han,  140-87  B.C.],  because  [his  uncle]  Prince  Huai-nan  was  a  man  of 
literary  distinction,  had  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju  look  over  the  letters  he 
drafted  to  this  prince.14  And  as  in  Lung-yu  [in  present  Kansu],  there 
were  many  literary  scholars,  Emperor  Kuang-wu  [of  the  Later  Han, 
A.D.  25-57]  Paid  particular  attention  to  the  literary  quality  of  his  mes- 
sages to  them.  This  was  done  not  merely  to  win  praise  of  the  day,  but 
also  to  show  a  reverent  care  for  the  opinion  of  later  times. 

The  style  of  the  chao  prior  to  Emperors  Wen  [179-157  B.C.]  and 
Ching  [156-141  B.C.]  was  frivolous  and  impure,  but  during  the  time 
of  Emperor  Wu,  who  inclined  towards  Confucianism,  it  was  grand 

7  Chou-li  yin-te,  q/iSb.  "Ming-chun"  (an  enlightened  ruler)  should  be  read  "ming 
shen"  (bright  spirits). 

8  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  5/0534-7. 

9  The  Li-chi:  "The  words  of  the  ruler  are  like  silk  fibers,  but  when  they  are  spoken 
they  are  like  threads;  the  words  of  a  ruler  are  like  threads,  but  when  they  are  spoken 
they  are  like  ropes."  The  great  effect  of  words,  especially  when  spoken  by  the  ruler,  is 
given  a  figurative  treatment  here.  See  Li-chi  yin-te,  33/7. 

10  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  2/730-4.  "  Mao-shih  yin-te,  71/260/3. 

12  See  note  9  above. 

13  See  the  biography  of  Liu  Hsiang  in  the  Han-shu. 

14  See  Prince  Huai-nan's  biography  in  the  Han-shu. 


ii2  Edict  and  Script 

and  profound.  His  scripts  of  enfeoffment  to  the  three  princes  [Ch'i, 
Yen,  and  Kuang-ling]15  have  the  same  literary  quality  as  the  hsiin  and 
tien;16  the  lesson  and  warning  they  conveyed  were  both  profound  and 
graceful,  good  examples  for  later  generations  to  imitate.  In  his  letter 
to  Yen  Tsu,  Emperor  Wu  mentioned  that  Yen  had  tired  of  his  duty 
in  the  Ch'eng-ming  lu;17  this,  in  fact,  shows  in  what  great  favor  the 
emperor  held  Yen.  Later,  the  epistle  of  Emperor  Hsiian  [73-49  B.C.] 
to  Governor  Ch'en  Sui  expresses  the  depth  of  his  feelings  for  his  old 
friend.18 

When  Emperor  Kuang-wu  [25-57]  brought  order  to  the  chaotic 
world,  he  was  deeply  concerned  about  his  language.  However,  in  the 
heat  of  the  moment,  he  often  lost  his  poise  in  expressing  his  joy  or 
anger.  In  his  letter  to  Teng  Yu,  he  described  the  office  of  Ssu-t'u  as 
that  of  Yao,19  and  in  his  threatening  letter  to  Hou  Pa  [also  a  Ssu-t'u], 
he  referred  to  the  execution  axe.20  Royal  letters  like  these  are  indeed 
contrary  to  the  form  of  chao  demanded  by  good  taste.  Emperors  Ming 

15  See  the  biographies  of  the  three  princes  in  the  Shih-chi. 

16  Both  the  hsiin  and  the  tien  are  chapter  titles  in  the  Boo\  of  History.  Hsiin  means 
to  give  instruction.  The  History  has  a  chapter  entitled  "I-hsiin"  (The  instruction  of  I 
Yin)  by  a  T'ang  minister.  When  T'ang  died,  his  grandson  ascended  to  the  throne,  and  I 
wrote  this  for  the  benefit  of  the  young  ruler.  As  to  the  tien,  the  first  two  chapters  of  the 
History  include  this  term  in  their  titles.  Hsiin-tien  may  be  rendered  simply  as  "classical." 

17  See  Yen  Tsu's  biography  in  the  Han-shu.  Yen  Tsu  had  gone  away  from  court  to  be 
the  governor  of  K'uai-chi,  in  modern  Chekiang,  his  native  place.  The  emperor  apparently 
let  him  go  with  reluctance.  Ch'eng-ming  lu  was  a  hall  in  the  palace  where  attendant 
ministers  stayed. 

18  Emperor  Hsiian,  when  humble,  often  lost  to  his  friend  Ch'en  Sui  in  games  and  was 
unable  to  pay.  After  he  became  emperor,  he  made  Ch'en  an  official,  and  eventually  wrote 
him  a  letter  mentioning  jokingly  that  the  appointment  was  in  payment  of  his  gambling 
debts  to  Ch'en. 

19  In  the  Chou  time,  Ssu-t'u  was  one  of  the  six  Chief  Ministers;  in  the  Han,  a  prime 
minister  was  known  as  Ssu-t'u,  one  of  the  three  Grand  Ministers.  Teng  was  made  Ssu-t'u 
by  Kuang-wu.  In  A.D.  25,  when  Kuang-wu  ascended  the  throne,  Teng  was  in  charge  of 
the  military  expeditions  in  the  west.  When  he  delayed  his  operation  against  Ch'ang-an, 
the  old  capital,  Kuang-wu  sent  him  a  stiff  letter,  in  which  he  declared  that  a  Ssu-t'u 
was,  in  effect,  a  Yao  (the  exemplary  ruler  of  the  past),  and  that  he  should  therefore 
make  all  haste  to  bring  his  campaign  to  a  successful  completion,  in  order  to  give  succor 
to  the  long-suffering  people  of  the  west.  See  his  biography  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 

20  Hou  Pa  recommended  a  certain  person  whom  Emperor  Kuang-wu  hated;  suspecting 
that  Hou  was  bribed,  he  sent  him  a  letter  threatening  to  execute  him.  See  the  biography 
of  Feng  Ch'in  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 


Edict  and  Script  113 

[58-75]  and  Chang  [76-88]  emphasized  learning,  and  consequently 
issued  some  graceful  chao. 

During  the  reigns  of  Emperors  An  [107-125]  and  Ho  [89-105],21 
government  declined  and  in  the  Hall  of  Rites  [where  scholars  were 
gathered],  there  were  few  scholars  with  talent.  When  a  royal  chao  or 
ch'ih  [that  is,  pronouncement  or  warning]  was  to  be  drafted,  a  scholar 
from  outside  the  Hall  was  often  summoned  to  do  it.  At  the  end  of  the 
reign  of  Chien-an  [196-220],  we  find  a  rise  in  interest  in  literature.  The 
"Chiu-hsi"  of  P'an  Hsii22  was  elegant  and  graceful,  outstanding  in  its 
group.  Wei  K'ai's  edict  of  abdication23  is  marked  with  brilliant 
rhetoric,  quite  unsurpassed. 

Since  the  times  of  Wei  and  Chin,  the  drafting  of  royal  edicts  had 
been  one  of  the  functions  of  the  royal  secretary.  Liu  Fang  [of  the 
Wei]  and  Chang  Hua  [of  the  Chin]  were  both  appointed  to  this 
position.  Edicts  and  orders  flowed  from  their  brushes,  wonderful  to 
listen  to.  The  edicts  of  Emperor  Wen  of  Wei  are  for  the  most  part 
grand  in  both  language  and  ideas,  and  his  inappropriate  use  of  the 
phrase  "to  exercise  awesome  authority  or  to  confer  blessed  happiness" 
may  be  considered  the  one  black  spot  in  his  well-considered  works.24 
When  the  Chin  dynasty  obtained  a  second  lease  on  life,25  Emperor 
Ming  [323-325]   alone  patronized  the  talented.  Wen  Ch'iao,  because 

21  Liu  Hsieh  reversed  the  order  for  euphonic  reasons. 

22  "Chiu-hsi"  means  conferment  of  nine  honors  to  the  virtuous  lords  by  the  Son  of 
Heaven.  Often  we  find  that  a  minister  grew  too  powerful,  and  the  Son  of  Heaven 
conferred  these  honors  under  duress.  This  was  the  case  when  Emperor  Hsien,  the  last 
emperor  of  the  Han,  conferred  these  honors  on  Ts'ao  Ts'ao  in  213.  On  this  occasion, 
P'an  Hsii  was  commissioned  to  write  the  royal  edict  for  the  emperor. 

23  Emperor  Hsien,  the  last  emperor  of  the  Later  Han,  abdicated  in  favor  of  Ts'ao  P'ei, 
the  eldest  son  of  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  in  A.D.  220.  The  royal  edict  proclaiming  the  abdication 
was  written  by  Wei  K'ai. 

24  The  phrase  is  taken  from  the  Boo\  of  History  (see  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien, 
24/0602-9),  where  it  is  pointed  out  that  one  should  not  "exercise  his  awesome 
authority"  or  "confer  blessed  happiness"  without  good  reason.  Here  the  emperor  was 
using  the  phrase  to  describe  the  kind  of  behavior  he  expected  of  the  general,  to  whom 
he  was  sending  the  edict.  When  Chiang  Chi  remonstrated  with  him,  he  had  the  edict 
recalled  before  it  reached  its  destination,  and  had  the  phrase  dropped.  See  the  biography 
of  Chiang  Chi  in  the  Wei-chih. 

25  Referring  to  the  Eastern  Chin,  after  the  Western  Chin  collapsed  under  the  pressure 
of  the  invasion  of  the  northern  tribes. 


H4  Edict  and  Script 

of  the  purity  of  his  literary  style,  was  appointed  royal  secretary.  From 
this  time  on,  interest  in  their  literary  quality  became  a  strong  influence 
on  the  composition  of  edicts. 

The  words  of  a  ruler  are  lofty  and  laden  with  meaning;  hence  they 
are  suspended  on  high  for  all  to  look  up  to,  they  are  the  laws  to  all 
chieftains,  and  they  are  pledges  capable  of  winning  the  confidence  of 
all  states.  Therefore,  in  making  appointments  and  selecting  the  virtuous 
for  such  appointments,  an  edict  should  contain  ideas  as  bright  as  the 
sun  and  the  moon;  in  enfeoffment,  it  should  be  rich  in  literary  quality, 
with  the  grace  of  the  breeze  and  the  timely  rain;  in  warning  or  ordinary 
decree,  it  should  have  brilliance  that  flows  from  the  brush,  sparkling 
like  stars  in  the  Milky  Way;  in  connection  with  the  conduct  of  military 
expeditions,  it  should  thunder  forth  in  rolling  majesty;  in  giving 
pardon,  it  should  be  as  gracious  as  the  dews  in  the  spring;  and  in  the 
just  application  of  law  and  punishment,  its  language  should  be  as 
sharp  as  the  autumn  frost.  These  are  the  main  principles  governing 
the  royal  edict. 

Chieh-ch'ih,  or  royal  warning,  are  edicts  written  in  language  which 
is  sharp  and  cutting.  The  order  given  by  King  Mu  of  the  Chou  [1023- 
983  B.C.]  to  Chiao-fu  to  receive  regulations  governing  the  royal  warn- 
ing may  be  cited  to  illustrate  this  point.26  King  Wu  [or  Ts'ao  Ts'ao] 
of  Wei  said  that  in  writing  a  warning,  the  language  should  be  directed 
to  the  facts,  and  no  vagueness  should  be  allowed.  This  remark  mani- 
fests his  wisdom  with  respect  to  government  administration.  And 
Emperor  Wu  of  the  Chin  served  all  his  ministers  with  warnings;  he 
warned  the  military  governors  of  the  importance  of  military  affairs; 
he  warned  the  civil  governors  of  the  importance  of  handling  sub- 
ordinates; he  warned  prefects  of  the  importance  of  being  kind  to  the 
people  and  not  too  observant  of  their  faults;  and  he  warned  the  guard 
of  their  duty  in  defense.  His  are  warnings  which  may  be  considered 
classical. 

Chieh,  or  to  advise  against,  means  literally  "to  take  care."  Yii  [of  the 

26  See  the  Mu-t'ien-tzu  chuan. 


Edict  and  Script  115 

Hsia]  spoke  of  the  function  of  a  chieh  as  good.  Now,  the  ruler  and 
the  father  rank  first  among  the  respected,  among  the  three  with 
boundless  grace  [which  it  is  impossible  for  one  to  repay];27  and  both 
the  advice  of  Emperor  Kao-tsu  of  the  Han  [202-192  B.C.]  to  the  heir 
apparent  and  Tung-fang  So's  admonishment  to  his  son  are  of  the 
same  nature  as  the  "Ku-ming."28  From  Ma  Yuan  [14  B.C.-A.D.  49] 
downward,  each  writer  has  left  behind  his  advice  to  his  family.  And 
the  advice  to  her  daughters  by  Pan  Chi  [or  Pan  Chao,  ?-c.  116,  sister 
of  Pan  Ku,  the  historian]  may  be  considered  words  from  the  mouth  of 
a  woman  teacher. 

Chiao,  or  to  teach,  literally  means  hsiao,  or  to  imitate.  Words  once 
spoken  form  the  models  for  people  to  imitate — for  example,  the  five 
teachings  disseminated  by  Hsieh;29  therefore  the  words  of  kings  and 
lords  have  come  to  be  grouped  under  the  general  term  chiao,  or  teach- 
ing. Cheng  Hung's  teachings  during  his  tenure  as  the  prefect  of  Nan- 
yang  were  well  remembered  by  later  generations,30  because  they  were 
clear  statements  of  his  administration.  On  the  other  hand,  when  K'ung 
Yung  was  the  prefect  of  Pei-hai,  his  declarations  to  the  people  were 
marked  with  literary  embellishments  but  lacking  in  rational  substance. 
His  is  a  practice  contrary  to  the  right  principle  of  government.  As  to 
both  the  skill  in  detail  and  the  succinctness  of  Chu-ke  K'ung-ming 
[that  is,  Chu-ke  Liang,  a  great  strategist  of  the  Three  Kingdoms 
period]  and  the  brilliant  judgments  of  Yii  Chih-kung  [or  Yii  I],  both 
are  well  grounded  in  reason  and  have  achieved  the  right  standard  in 
language.  They  furnish  the  best  examples  of  chiao. 

In  addition  to  chiao,  there  is  also  ming,  or  mandate.  It  is  said  in  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry,  "There  is  ming  from  heaven,"  showing  the  importance 

27  The  third  one  from  whom  we  receive  boundless  grace  is  the  teacher. 

28  In  the  Boo\  of  History,  Chapter  42,  the  advice  which  King  Ch'eng  of  the  Chou, 
on  his  deathbed,  gave  to  his  son  King  K'ang. 

29  Hsieh  was  a  minister  of  Shun,  who  appointed  him  to  be  the  Ssu-t'u,  a  minister  in 
charge  of  education.  The  five  teachings  are:  father's  justice,  mother's  love,  elder  brother's 
kindness,  younger  brother's  respect,  and  son's  filial  piety.  See  Shang-shu  t'ung  chien, 
2/0478-98,   and    Ch'un   cli'iu   ching-chuan   yin-te,    176/Wen    18/9    Tso. 

30  This  is  not  mentioned  in  the  biography  of  Cheng  Hung  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 


n6  Edict  and  Script 

of  ming.zl  And  in  the  Chou-li,  the  Shih-shih  had  the  duty  of  keeping 
the  ruler  informed  or  chao32  showing  that  the  chao  was  then  rela- 
tively unimportant.33  In  our  own  day,  the  chao  is  important  and  the 
ming  unimportant;  this  indicates  the  change  from  ancient  to  modern 
times. 

The  Tsan: 
The  august  king,  in  giving  orders, 

Shows  inner  reverence  and  outer  respect  in  his  pronouncements. 
His  words  are  like  silk,3* 
And  all  the  people  love  to  hear  them. 
Their  brilliant  sound  soars  high, 
And  on  mighty  winds  is  carried  to  a  distance. 
Vigorous  ideas  and  lively  language 
Decorate  these,  his  majestic  commands. 


XX.  War  Proclamation  and  Dispatch  (The  Hsi  and  the  I) 


As  lightning  precedes  thunder,  so  awesome  proclamations  precede 
military  expeditions.  Just  as  the  sight  of  lightning  evokes  a  fear  of  the 
ensuing  thunder,  so  the  hearing  of  a  proclamation  makes  the  listener 
freeze  with  fear  of  military  strength.  It  has  long  been  a  practice  to  send 
out  proclamations  before  military  expeditions.  Yu-yii  [Shun]  was  the 
first  to  sound  the  warning  to  his  state;  the  ruler  of  Hsia  was  the  first 
to  take  the  oath  in  the  army;  Yin  [or  Shang]  took  the  oath  outside 
the  army  camp;  and  the  Chou  took  the  oath  immediately  before  the 

31  Mao-shih  yin-te,  59/236/6. 

82  An  office  whose  function  was  to  inform,  or  chao,  the  ruler  of  what  is  good.  See 
Chou-li,  "Ti-kuan"  (Shih-san  ching  chu-su  ed.),  chiian  14,  p.  2a. 

33  Relatively  unimportant  because  it  was  used  by  the  official  and  was  not  used  like 
ming  as  a  mandate  from  heaven,  nor  as  royal  decree. 

34  See  note  9  above. 


War  Proclamation  and  Dispatch  117 

battle.1  Thus  we  know  that  during  the  time  of  the  [Five]  Emperors 
[one  of  whom  was  Shun],  warning  was  sent  out  before  a  military  cam- 
paign; and  during  the  time  of  the  Three  Kings  [of  the  Hsia,  Shang, 
and  Chou],  an  oath  was  taken  at  the  time  the  expedition  was  launched. 
In  all  these  cases,  the  instructions  were  directed  to  their  own  troops, 
and  nothing  was  said  to  the  enemy.  But  when  King  Mu  of  Chou 
launched  an  expedition  to  the  west,  Lord  Ts'ai  Mou-fu  remarked  that 
in  ancient  times  there  were  both  proclamations  to  set  forth  the  purpose 
of  the  expedition  and  proclamations  in  which  the  crimes  of  the  enemy 
were  enumerated.  This  may  be  considered  the  beginning  of  the  hsi,  or 
war  proclamation. 

During  the  period  of  the  Ch'un-ch'iu,  all  military  expeditions  were 
initiated  by  the  lords.2  Mindful  that  the  enemy  might  not  acknowledge 
their  authority,  these  lords,  in  order  to  maintain  it,  had  to  give  their 
expeditions  noble  justifications  in  order  to  inspire  awe,  and  this  they 
accomplished  by  exposing  in  proclamations  the  evil  done  by  the  enemy. 
This  was  just  what  Liu  Hsien-kung  had  in  mind  in  his  advice  [to 
Shu-hsiang  of  Chin,  when  the  state  of  Ch'i  was  reluctant  to  come  to 
terms] :  "Inform  them  of  the  reason  by  proclamation,  and  support  it 
with  troops."3  Duke  Huan  of  Ch'i,  on  his  expedition  against  the  state 
of  Ch'u,  rebuked  it  for  failing  to  send  tribute  [to  the  Chou  court];4 
Duke  Li  of  Chin  seized  upon  the  burning  of  [the  Chin  city  of]  Chi- 
kao  as  his  reason  for  attacking  Ch'in,5  and  Kuang  Chung  and  Lii 
Hsiang  both  wrote  proclamations  before  their  military  expeditions.6 
A  careful  examination  of  their  content  shows  that  they  are  actually 
what  we  now  call  hsi,  or  war  proclamations. 

It  was  during  the  Warring  States  period  that  such  proclamations 

1  Taken  from  the  Ssu-ma  Fa,  military  regulations.  The  purpose  of  the  oath  is  to 
prepare  the  people  for  the  forthcoming  expedition. 

2  This  was  a  sign  of  the  decline  of  the  Chou,  because  normally  all  military  expeditions 
should  have  been  initiated  by  the  king. 

8  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  382/Chao  13/5  Tso. 

4  Ibid.,  92/Hsi  4/4  Tso.  At  this  time  the  Chou  was  so  weak  that  the  king  was  a 
figurehead.  Strong  vassal  lords  acted  in  the  name  of  the  Son  of  Heaven.  So  Ch'i,  the 
strongest  state  of  the  time,  took  Ch'u's  failure  to  send  tribute  to  Chou  as  an  excuse  for 
attacking  it. 

5  Ibid.,  235/  Ch'eng  13/4  Tso.  6  Kuan  against  Ch'u,  Lii  against  Ch'in. 


n8  War  Proclamation  and  Dispatch 

came  to  be  known  as  hsi.  Hsi  means  clear,  clearly  revealed,  clearly 
understood.  Chang  I,  when  sending  a  hsi  to  Ch'u,  wrote  it  down  on  a 
bamboo  slip  only  one  foot  and  two  inches  long.7  The  clearly  expressed 
language  of  the  hsi  is  grasped  as  a  poster  is  grasped  when  it  is  pre- 
sented before  the  eyes  and  ears. 

The  purpose  of  a  military  expedition  is  to  restore  peace,  and  it  must 
not  be  initiated  on  one's  own  account.  Formerly  when  the  Son  of 
Heaven  took  charge  of  an  expedition  in  person,  he  would  say:  "I 
respectfully  execute  this  act  of  punishment  in  the  name  of  heaven."8 
And  when  it  was  a  vassal  lord  who  launched  the  campaign,  he  would 
say:  "Reverently  I  impose  this  penalty  in  the  name  of  the  king."9  In 
this  way  the  Son  of  Heaven  shared  his  responsibility  with  his  generals 
and  gave  them  encouragement,10  and  the  generals  received  orders 
from  the  emperor  himself  to  undertake  punitive  expeditions.  This  was 
done  not  only  to  insure  success  in  destroying  the  enemy,  but  also  to 
provide  the  utmost  opportunity  for  couching  the  orders  in  severe  lan- 
guage expressive  of  a  militant  spirit.  Such  proclamations  would  have  a 
resounding  impact,  like  that  of  stormy  winds,  and  their  militant 
spirit  would  destroy  the  enemy's  morale  like  the  comet  sweeping  away 
[evils  with  its  tail].  They  expressed  martial  indignation  and  constrained 
the  spirits  of  the  malefactors.  They  gave  evidence  indicating  the  ripen- 
ing moment  of  evil,  and  pointed  out  that  the  days  of  the  malefactors, 
whose  crime  had  reached  its  limits,  were  numbered.  They  struck 
terror  to  the  hearts  of  the  evil,  but  gave  confidence  to  those  who  were 

7  Chang  I  was  wrongly  accused  of  stealing  jade  cups  while  being  entertained  at  the 
Ch'u  court  and  was  consequently  lashed.  When  he  became  the  prime  minister  of  Ch'in, 
he  sent  Ch'u  a  hsi  to  the  effect  that  he  now  would  steal  Ch'u  cities.  A  hsi  is  sometimes 
defined  as  "a  foot  and  two." 

8  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  21/0702-13;  22/0165-73. 

9  See   K'ung  Yin-ta's  commentary  on   Shang-shu   t'ung-chien,    22/0165-73. 

10  Literally,  "division  by  the  city  gate  threshold  and  a  push  to  the  chariot,"  paraphrase 
of  a  line  from  the  biography  of  Feng  T'ang  in  Pan  Ku's  Han-shu.  The  original  line  in 
the  Han-shu  runs:  "Your  servant — addressing  Emperor  Wen — heard  that  in  ancient  times 
when  a  king  dispatched  a  general  on  an  expedition,  he  would  kneel  down  to  give  the 
general's  chariot  a  push  and  say:  'Within  the  threshold  of  the  city  gate  I  assume  responsi- 
bility, and  beyond  the  threshold,  you,  my  general,  assume  full  responsibility.'  "  Later 
"division  by  threshold"  came  to  mean  division  of  responsibility,  and  "to  give  the  chariot 
a  push"   meant  to   give   encouragement. 


War  Proclamation  and  Dispatch  119 

faithful  and  obedient.  They  caused  hundred-foot  chariots  to  break 
before  a  written  note  scarcely  a  foot  long  and  a  city  wall  of  ten  thou- 
sand chih11  to  crumble  under  the  weight  of  a  hsi.  Wei  Hsiao's  hsi  re- 
counting the  three  crimes  [of  Wang  Mang]12  caused  the  Hsin  dynasty13 
to  collapse.  Though  unembellished,  its  language  is  succinct  and  its  nar- 
rative clear.  In  it  the  scholars  of  Lung-yu14  found  a  model  for  the  hsi. 
Ch'en  Lin's  hsi  against  Ts'ao  Ts'ao  is  marked  with  strength  and  cour- 
age; although  its  expose  of  the  family  background  is  exaggerated,  as 
in  its  assertion  that  Ts'ao's  grandfather  was  a  eunuch  and  his  father 
a  beggar  receiving  support  from  others;  and  although  it  contains  the 
allegation,  more  false  than  acrimonious,  that  Ts'ao  had  the  imperial 
tombs  dug  up  for  their  treasure,  its  strong  language  in  describing 
Ts'ao's  crimes  is  as  stark  as  exposed  bones.  With  great  courage  he 
braved  the  anger  of  Ts'ao  Ts'ao;  and  it  was  a  sheer  stroke  of  luck  that 
he  was  not  destroyed  along  with  the  clique  of  Yuan  [Shao].15  Chung 
Hui  [225-264],  in  his  hsi  to  the  generals  in  Shu,  cited  his  evidence  con- 
vincingly, and  the  hsi  of  Huan  Wen  [312-373]  against  the  barbarians16 
is  even  more  telling  in  recounting  their  ruthlessness.  These  are  all 
products  of  vigorous  brushes. 

In  general  a  hsi  speaks  either  of  one's  own  kindness  and  fair  judg- 
ment, or  of  the  enemy's  ruthlessness  and  cruelty.  It  stresses  salient 
factors  of  timeliness  and  human  relations,  and  discusses  comparative 
military  strengths  and  strategic  positions;  it  refers  to  oracular  revela- 
tions of  the  future,  and  to  the  lessons  reflected  in  the  pendant  mirror 
of  the  past.17  Although  it  is  based  on  the  realities  of  the  national  situa- 
tion, it  utilizes  the  deceptive  tactics  always  involved  in  military  art. 

11  About  fifty  miles. 

12  Crimes  against  heaven,  earth,  and  men.  See  Wei  Hsiao's  biography  in  the  Hou- 
han-shu. 

13  Created  by  Wang  Mang,  who  usurped  the  throne  in  A.D.  o.  His  dynasty  lasted 
until  A.D.  23.  He  chose  Hsin  as  his  dynastic  title  because  he  was  enfeoffed  Lord  Hsin-tu. 

14  Present-day  Kansu. 

15  He  wrote  the  hsi  for  Yuan  Shao,  who  was  planning  a  punitive  expedition  against 
Ts'ao  Ts'ao. 

16  Referring  to  Shih  Le,  who  was  overrunning  North  China  at  the  time. 

17  For  the  meaning  of  the  pendant  mirror,  see  note  25,  Chapter  XI.  "The  pendant 
mirror  of  the  past"  means  history. 


120  War  Proclamation  and  Dispatch 

To  put  over  its  ideas,  it  makes  use  of  deceit;  and  to  give  force  to  its 
claim,  it  employs  brilliant  language.  These  tactics  are  imperative  in  all 
hsi  writing.  Therefore,  in  formulating  ideas  for  a  hsi  or  in  attempting 
to  make  its  words  fly  home,  the  important  thing  to  remember  is 
strength.  To  make  the  words  fly  home  is  essentially  to  give  them 
speed,  to  avoid  a  slow-moving  style;  and,  as  a  hsi  is  to  be  posted  for 
all  to  see,  never  to  allow  its  ideas  to  be  vague.  Its  facts  should  be 
evident,  its  reason  sound,  its  spirit  high,  and  its  language  clear-cut; 
these  are  the  essentials  of  a  hsi.  As  to  involved  style  or  delicate  and  clever 
content,  they  are  not  materials  for  the  genre. 

We  might  add  that  when  local  officials  call  for  recruits  their  procla- 
mations are  also  known  as  hsi,  since  their  idea  is  to  announce  an 
intention  clearly. 

/,  or  to  transform  or  dispatch,  means  literally  to  change,  to  transform 
ways  and  change  mores,  to  dispatch  an  order  for  people  to  follow. 
[Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju's  dispatch  refuting  the  opinions  of  the  people  of 
Shu  [who  opposed  contacting  the  southwestern  tribes]  is  lucid  in 
language  and  comprehensive  in  arguments;  it  may  be  considered  the 
very  bone  of  both  i  and  hsi.  Liu  Hsin's  dispatch  rebuking  scholars  in 
the  T'ai-ch'ang  ministry18  is  couched  in  strong  language,  contains  ideas 
which  are  clear,  and  may  be  considered  the  best  of  all  civil  dispatches. 
Lu  Chi's  dispatch  to  the  hundred  officials19  is  simple  in  language  and 
plain  in  recounting  facts,  and  may  be  said  to  be  the  best  of  all  military 
dispatches.  These  examples  demonstrate  that  the  hsi  and  the  i  may  be 
used  on  both  civil  and  military  occasions.  In  a  military  situation,  the 
hsi  is  used  to  address  the  enemy  and  the  i  to  address  the  allies;  the 
distinction  is  made  for  the  purpose  of  rooting  out  any  suspicion  in  the 

18  The  T'ai-ch'ang  ministry  was  in  charge  of  rites,  a  function  similar  to  that  of  a 
modern  ministry  of  education.  Scholars  who  were  experts  in  the  study  of  particular 
classics  were  appointed  Po-shih  (learned  men)  in  the  ministry.  Liu  Hsin  proposed  to 
create  three  new  Po-shih  for  the  three  classics:  the  Boo\  of  History,  particularly  the 
chapter  "T'ai-shih,"  the  great  oath  King  Wu  made  at  the  beginning  of  his  expedition 
against  the  Shang,  the  thirty-nine  chapters  of  the  newly  recovered  Book  °f  Rites,  and 
the  Tso-chuan,  Tso's  commentary  on  the  Ch'an-ch'iu.  He  was  vehemently  opposed  by 
the  Po-shih  in  the  T'ai-ch'ang  ministry,  and  he  rebuked  them  in  the  dispatch  referred 
to  here. 

10  Not  recorded,  presumably  lost. 


Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  121 

minds  of  the  people  and  planting  in  its  stead  firm  concord.  Between 
the  two  terms  there  is  thus  a  slight  difference  in  application,  but  they 
are  similar  in  form  and  content.  To  know  the  i  we  need  only  refer  to 
the  hsi.  We  shall  not,  therefore,  deal  with  it  again  here. 

The  Tsan: 
[In  hunting,  ancient  kings]  used  beaters  on  three  sides,  and  [Tang  of 

Shang  also  ordered]  the  net  to  be  loose  [on  three].20 
Therefore  all  punitive  expeditions  are  preceded  by  proclamations. 
Look  into  the  pendant  mirror  of  the  past  for  lucky  and  unlucky  omens; 
And  depend  on  milfoil  stems  and  tortoise  shell  to  predict  the  success  or 

failure  of  a  campaign. 
Suppress  the  overbearing  and  ruthless, 
And  exterminate  the  poisonous. 
Transform  ways  and  change  mores; 
The  grasses  incline  under  the  strength  of  the  wind  of  proclamation.21 


XXL  Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  (Feng  Shan)1 


[A  ruler]  is  situated  as  the  Big  Dipper2  and  confronts  the  brilliant 

20  In  the  Boo\  of  Changes  under  the  hexagram  pi  (=~=),  it  is  said,  "In  hunting 
the  king  uses  beaters  on  three  sides  only  and  foregoes  game  that  runs  off  in  front." 
See  Chou-i  yin-te,  8/8/5.  And  in  the  Lu-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  T'ang  of  the  Shang  dynasty  is 
said  to  have  ordered  the  game  warden  to  let  loose  three  sides  of  the  net.  See  Lii-shih 
ch'un-ch'iu  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  10,  p.  102.  These  figures  are  used  here  to 
indicate  the  reluctance  of  a  good  ruler  to  use  force.  A  proclamation  is  here  conceived 
to  be  an  attempt  to  correct  wrongs  without  resorting  to  force. 

21  A  figure  taken  from  the  Analects,  where  the  wind  refers  to  the  influence  of  the  men 
of  virtue,  while  the  grasses  are  the  people.  See  Analects,  24/12/19.  The  proclamation  is 
then  the  vigorous  wind  and  the  enemy  is  the  grass. 

1  One  of  the  things  done  during  these  sacrifices  was  to  inscribe  on  stone  tablets  the 
achievements  of  the  ruler. 

2  The  Big  Dipper  or  Ursa  Major  was  thought  to  be  the  chariot  of  the  Supreme  Being. 
and  it  occupies  the  center  of  heaven  around  which  all  heavenly  bodies  revolve,  a  position 
similar  to  that  of  a  ruler  on  earth. 


122  Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth 

south;3  he  moves  Polaris4  and  gives  support  both  to  the  common  people 
and  to  the  virtuously  eminent.  Has  such  a  ruler  ever  failed  to  inscribe 
his  imperial  achievements  by  weaving  together  the  Tao,  or  first  prin- 
ciple, and  the  te,  or  particular  principles,  as  the  warp  and  the  woof 
are  woven  together?  The  "Green  Diagram"  says,  "Through  whirl  and 
permeation,  the  ten  thousand  things  are  evolutionally  transformed," 
expressing  the  effect  of  the  influence  of  great  virtue.  And  the  "Red 
Book"  says,  "The  way  will  be  smooth  if  righteousness  overcomes  selfish 
desires,  and  disastrous  if  selfish  desires  overcome  righteousness,"  show- 
ing the  importance  of  extreme  reverence  and  vigilance.5  Such  reverence 
and  vigilance  serve  to  build  the  ruler's  virtue  up  to  its  majestic  height; 
and  this  high  moral  quality  of  his  achieves  the  evolutional  transforma- 
tion referred  to.  Accordingly  there  have  been  seventy-two  monarchs 
who  in  the  past  have  offered  sacrifices  to  heaven  and  earth.6 

Long  ago  the  Yellow  Emperor,  because  of  the  spirituality  of  his 
personality,  was  the  recipient  of  most  auspicious  blessings,  and  he 
inscribed  a  record  of  his  merit  on  the  lofty  Mount  [T'ai]  and  had 
tripods  cast  at  Mount  Ching.  Shun's  sacrifice  to  T'ai-shan  is  clearly 
recorded  in  the  "Yu-tien."7  And  we  hear  of  the  sacrifices  to  heaven  and 
earth  made  by  King  Ch'eng  and  King  K'ang  [of  Chou]  as  recorded 
in  the  apocrypha  of  the  Classic  of  Music.  When  Duke  Huan  of  Ch'i 
had  become  drunk  with  power,  he  cast  his  eyes  toward  imperial  rule. 
But  I-wu  [or  Kuan  Chung]  shrewdly  remonstrated  with  him  by 
detailing  the  extraordinary  omens  necessary  for  assuming  the  imperial 

3  In  the  Chuangtzu  (for  "Nan-mien,"  i.e.,  facing  south,  see  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  6/2/62, 
30/12/26,  81/29/19;  in  47/18/27,  we  have  the  phrase  "Nan-mien-wang,"  a  king  who 
faces  south),  and  in  the  "Shuo-kua"  of  the  Boo\  of  Changes  (see  Chou-i  yin-te, 
5o/shuo/4),  we  find  mention  of  the  ruler  facing  south,  but  nowhere  has  a  satisfactory 
explanation  for  this  practice  been  found.  In  the  "Shuo-kua"  it  is  merely  said  that  the 
south  is  bright,  hence  the  sage  faces  south  in  audience  with  the  people  of  the  world, 
as  he  faces  the  light  in  his  rule. 

4  Supposedly  the  first  star  in  the  Ursa  Major  constellation,  conceived  in  ancient  China 
as  the  first  heaven.  If  the  ruler  moves  this  first  star,  around  which  all  other  heavenly 
bodies  revolve,  he  is  evidently  the  prime  mover  in  the  world. 

5  Both  the  "Green  Diagram"  and  the  "Red  Book"  have  been  mentioned  in  Chapter  IV, 
p.  23.  See  note  5,  Chapter  IV. 

6  Reporting  to  heaven  and  earth  on  their  achievements,  the  expression  of  extreme 
reverence  and  vigilance. 

7  "Shun-tien,"  the  second  chapter  of  the  Boo\  of  History. 


Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  123 

role,  and  forestalled  his  attempt.8  From  this  incident,  we  learn  that 
jade  tablets  and  gold  inscriptions  are  the  special  omens  of  an  emperor. 
But  what  has  been  said  of  the  chien,9  appearing  in  the  west,  and  the 
tieh,10  appearing  in  the  east,  is  idle  chatter  without  basis;  what  is  really 
meant  is  the  ruler's  great  virtue.11  The  monograph  "Feng-shan" 
(Sacrifices  to  heaven  and  earth)  among  the  eight  treatises  in  the  Shih- 
chi  of  Shih-ch'ien  [or  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien]  is  about  special  rites  of  sacrifices 
which  were  also  occasions  for  recording  the  merits  of  the  rulers  and 
ofTering  secret  prayers.12  We  find  in  this  monograph  a  truly  grand 
spectacle  of  heaven  worship.  The  inscriptions  of  Ch'in  Shih-huang-ti 
[first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in]  on  Mount  T'ai  were  from  the  brush  of 
Li  Ssu;  written  in  the  language  of  a  legalist,  their  style  is  neither 
elevated  nor  smooth.  However,  clean  and  vigorous,  they  were  the  best 
literary  efforts  of  the  time. 

During  the  height  of  the  two  Han,  Emperor  Wu  performed  sacrifices 
to  heaven  and  earth  at  Mount  Su-jan  and  Emperor  Kuang-wu  per- 
formed sacrifices  to  heaven  and  earth  at  Mount  Liang-fu;  both  records 
are  masterpieces,  glorifying  their  virtue  and  preserving  their  merits 
in  memory.13  The  "Feng-shan"  of  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju  is  elegant  and 
leads  the  genre  in  beauty.  It  traces  its  origin,  narrates  successive  per- 
formances of  the  sovereigns  and  kings  at  sacrifices,  mentions  clearly 
the  physical  symbols  of  the  mandate  of  heaven,  and  makes  the  great 
achievements  of  past  rulers  shine.  In  it  Hsiang-ju  reached  back  to 
antiquity  for  evidence  that  was  of  service  to  the  contemporary  ruler 
[Emperor  Wu],  and  extolled  his  good  and  brilliant  reign  above  those 

8  The  duke's  ambition  to  assume  the  position  of  the  Son  of  Heaven  was  frustrated 
through  the  failure  of  certain  omens  to  materialize.  These  omens  were  then  construed 
to  be  the  prerogatives  of  a  ruler  mandated  by  heaven. 

9  A  chien  is  a  one- winged  bird.  These  birds  fly  only  in  pairs. 

10  A  tieh  is  a  one-eyed  fish.  These  fish  swim  only  in  pairs. 

11  The  chien  and  tieh,  the  jade  tablets  and  gold  inscriptions,  are,  according  to  Kuan 
I-wu,  some  of  the  things  which  must  appear  as  symbols  of  investiture  by  the  mandate 
of  heaven. 

12  See  Shih-chi,  "Feng-shan  shu"  (Taipei,  Erh-shih-wu-shih  ed.),  chiian  28,  p.  106. 
In  167  B.C.,  Emperor  Wen  abolished  secret  prayers  by  means  of  which  the  sacrificial 
officials  attempted  to  shift  calamity  from  the  emperor  to  the  people.  Ibid.,  p.  12a. 

13  Strictly  speaking,  they  sacrificed  to  heaven  at  Mount  T'ai  and  to  earth  at  Mount 
Liang-fu.  See  "Wu-ti  chi"  in  the  Han-shu  and  "Kuang-wu  chi"  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 
Liu  Hsieh's  statements  are  elliptic  for  the  purpose  of  euphony. 


124  Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth 

of  previous  sage  kings.  He  sang  his  praise  of  the  reign  by  citing  aus- 
picious omens,  and  pleaded  with  the  emperor  to  go  to  offer  sacrifices 
to  heaven  and  earth  at  the  great  mountain.  Such  a  piece  is  without 
peer,  a  creation  completely  new.14 

The  stone  inscription  extolling  Emperor  Kuang-wu's  virtue  was 
from  the  brush  of  Chang  Ch'un.  Its  first  part  is  in  the  [classical]  style 
of  tien-mu,  and  its  last  part  in  the  style  of  a  prayer,  or  chu.  It  cites 
prognostications  from  the  apocrypha,  describes  the  chaotic  times,15 
and  gives  an  account  of  Kuang-wu's  military  merits  and  civil  virtues. 
Lucid  in  narrative  and  articulate  in  reasoning,  although  it  is  somewhat 
lacking  in  embellishment,  it  is  more  than  adequate  in  its  content. 
These  two  writers  [Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  and  Chang  Ch'un]  left  behind 
concrete  evidence  on  stone  on  Mount  T'ai.16  Although  Yang  Hsiung's 
"Chu-ch'in"17  and  Pan  Ku's  "Tien-yin"18  have  not  been  inscribed,  they 
are  in  the  style  of  the  chi,  or  chronicle  of  rulers,  and  shan,  or  sacrificial 
writings.  "Chu-ch'in"  was  patterned  after  the  work  of  Ch'ang-ch'ing 
[or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju];  it  embodies  strange  stories  told  in  a  sophisti- 
cated language  and  touches  the  supernatural.  However,  with  its  close- 
knit  structure  and  coherent  and  smooth  language,  it  is  indeed  the 
result  of  the  utmost  intellectual  effort.  The  subject  matter  dealt  with 
in  the  "Tien-yin"  has  the  qualities  of  grace  and  beauty.  Based  on  the 
experience  he  obtained  through  a  study  of  previous  writings,  it  seems 
to  have  achieved  the  right  principle.  It  succeeds  with  flying  colors  in 
expressing  ideas  in  adequate  language:  for  example,  it  speaks  of 
"Feng-shan"  as  "beautiful  and  not  elegant,"  and  of  "Chu-ch'in"  as 
"elegant  and  not  true."  This  seems  to  illustrate  the  truth  that  hindsight 
is  easily  clearer  than  foresight  and  that  taking  advantage  of  an  existing 
situation  gives  one  a  better  chance  for  success  than  creating  anew. 

When  we  come  to  the  "Shou-ming"  (Reception  of  mandate)  of 
Han-tan  [Ch'un],  we  find  it  only  the  echo  of  former  sounds;  for  like 

14  This  piece  is  found  in  Shih-chi,  Han-shu,  and   Wen-hsiian. 

15  Referring  to  the  time  of  confusion  subsequent  to  the  usurpation  by  Wang  Mang. 

16  The  stone  inscription  of  Hsiang-ju's  writing  is  not  mentioned  elsewhere. 

17  The  full  title  is:  "Chii-ch'ing  mei-hsin,"  criticizing  Ch'in  and  extolling  Hsin — 
Wang  Mang's  dynastic  title. 

18  Extolling  the  virtue  of  the  Han. 


Sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  125 

the  tail  of  a  wind  its  strength  is  about  spent.  It  just  collects  rhymes  to 
form  a  sung,  or  song.  Although  smooth  in  language  and  logical  in 
order,  it  lacks  the  vigor  for  flight.  The  "Wei-te"19  of  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao 
Chih]  postulates  a  host  as  protagonist  and  a  guest  as  antagonist,  but 
the  question  and  answer  dialogue  becomes  so  devious  and  slow-moving 
that  it  consumes  thousands  of  words:  it  is  most  laborious  but  of  little 
merit,  lacking  both  swiftness  and  flaming  force. 

Feng-shan,  or  "sacrifices  to  heaven  and  earth,"  serve  to  document  the 
institutions  of  an  age.  Before  laying  down  the  general  plan  of  the 
genre,  one  should  first  understand  the  main  features  of  its  construc- 
tion. Its  bone  structure  should  be  erect  and  in  the  realm  of  the  hsun-tien, 
or  classical,  and  it  ought  to  be  clothed  in  a  language  that  is  elegant 
and  rich;  its  ideas  may  be  old  and  yet  not  be  so  deep  that  they  become 
obscure,  and  its  language,  though  modern,  should  betray  no  sign  of 
shallowness.  It  will  be  a  masterpiece  if  it  contains  ideas  that  shoot 
forth  tongues  of  fire  and  its  language  is  as  clear-cut  as  a  sword  blade. 
Even  if  imitation  should  become  the  order  of  the  day,  when  the 
development  of  the  genre  has  reached  its  limit,  if  one  is  able  to  give  it 
a  freshness  of  ornamentation,  his  works  would  exceed  his  predecessors' 
in  excellence. 

The  Tsan : 
In  sacrifices  to  heaven  the  ruler's  merits  are  emblazoned  on  stone, 
As  a  report  to  heaven  from  whom  he  has  received  such  heavenly  grace. 
Heard  afar  from  high  mountains 
Is  his  fame,  noble  and  bright. 

Monuments  are  erected,  penetrating  the  nine  heavens, 
Their  inscriptions  emblazoned  in  gold, 

Cut  according  to  the  norm  set  by  the  geese  [that  is,  to  none],20 
And  to  the  patterns  of  twisted  trees, 
As  lively  as  dragons. 

19  Extolling  the  virtue  of  the  Wei. 

20  In  T'ai-hsiian  ching,  by  Yang  Hsiung,  it  is  said,  "The  pattern  of  the  geese  conform 
to  no  norm,"  used  here  along  with  the  next  figure  to  illustrate  the  rugged  style  of  stone 
inscriptions. 


XXII.  Memorial,  Part  I  (The  Chang  and  the  Piao) 


Offices  are  created  to  carry  on  the  various  functions  of  government, 
and  officials  of  all  ranks  work  together.  While  the  Son  of  Heaven, 
with  fringes  of  pearls  on  his  crown,  holds  court,  lords  and  vassals 
come  to  seek  audience,  tinkling  with  jade  pendants.  They  report  orally 
in  words  whose  validity  is  openly  checked  by  reference  to  their  actual 
accomplishments.  Thus,  when  Yao  consulted  the  four  chiefs  who  were 
in  charge  of  the  vassal  lords,  or  when  Shun  recommended  the  eight 
worthies  [to  Yao],  or  when  officials  repeated  their  courteous  refusal 
of  their  appointments,1  or  when  the  ruler  dispatched  his  ministers  on 
missions — in  all  these  cases,  the  words  were  uttered  at  court  without 
resort  to  paper  and  brush.  Hence  the  meaning  of  the  term  chang-piao 
is  a  report  [that  is,  tsou]  by  word  of  mouth,  and  an  examination  of 
the  validity  of  the  words  by  reference  to  accomplishments  stands  for 
the  ceremony  of  bestowing  a  title  of  nobility.  When  T'ai-chia  [T'ang's 
grandson;  1738-1725  B.C.]  ascended  the  throne,  I  Yin  wrote  a  memorial 
warning  him  of  certain  pitfalls;2  and  when  T'ai-chia  again  became 
heedful  of  the  constant  principle  of  right  and  returned  to  Po,3  I  Yin 
again  wrote  memorials  to  praise  his  effort.4  This  was  the  first  instance 
we  find  of  such  advice  offered  as  written  memorials. 

The  Chou,  having  the  advantage  of  the  experiences  of  the  previous 
two  dynasties,  witnessed  further  literary  developments.  It  was  custom- 
ary to  express  one's  gratitude  by  kowtowing  and  lauding  his  majesty's 
gracious  mandate,  or  to  express  one's  sense  of  humility  before  the 
great,  enlightened  order  of  enfeoffment  orally;  for  at  the  time  oral  and 
written  forms  were  not  yet  clearly  distinguished,  but  expressions  of 
gratitude  can  be  readily  seen. 

During  the  period  of  the  Seven  States  no  change  in  the  old  form 
took  place.  When  memorializing  the  throne,  one  was  said  to  present 

1  This  includes  the  declining  of  the  offer  of  the  throne. 

2  See  note  1 6,  Chapter  XIX.  3  Capital  of  Shang. 

4  The  three  chapters  in  the  Book,  of  History  entitled  "T'ai-chia,"  grouped  together  as 
Chapter  14  in  the  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien. 


Memorial,  Part  I  127 

a  shu,  or  letter.  It  was  the  Ch'in  which  first  instituted  the  change  from 
shu  to  tsou,  or  memorial.  According  to  the  Han  institution,  there  were 
four  categories:  chang,  or  to  make  clear  or  articulate;  tsou,  or  to  me- 
morialize; piao,  or  to  express;  and  1,  or  to  discuss.  The  purpose  of  the 
chang  was  to  make  clear  one's  feeling  of  gratitude;  of  the  tsou,  to 
investigate  and  to  impeach;  of  the  piao,  to  express  one's  own  feelings; 
and  of  the  i,  to  maintain  a  difference  of  opinion.  Chang  literally  means 
"clear  or  articulate."  In  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  there  is  a  line:  "forming 
chang  in  heaven,"5  which  means  that  its  pattern  is  made  articulate.  As 
an  example  of  an  application  of  the  idea  to  material  things,  a  mixture 
of  red  with  white  is  called  chang.6  Piao  means  literally  "to  post." 
[Chapter  32]  in  the  Boo\  of  Rites  is  entitled  "Piao-chi,"  meaning  that 
one's  inner  virtue  is  posted  outside  in  one's  manners.  As  an  example  of 
the  application  of  this  idea  to  material  things,  to  measure  the  shadow 
on  a  sundial  is  known  as  piao.  Thus  the  term  chang-piao  seems  to 
have  originated. 

We  find  included  in  the  "Ch'i-lueh"  and  "I-wen  [chih]"7  records 
of  all  poetic  writings;  and  yet  the  chang,  piao,  tsou,  and  i,  all  crucial 
in  the  conduct  of  government,  are  omitted,  because  they  were  con- 
cerned with  the  affairs  of  various  organs  of  government  and  were  kept 
in  the  files  of  their  government  offices.  Few  of  the  piao  of  the  Early 
Han  period  are  still  extant.  And  during  the  Later  Han  one  of  the 
conditions  for  being  selected  for  official  appointment  was  to  pass  an 
examination  in  the  chang  and  tsou.  Tso  Hsiung's  tsou  and  i,  which 
set  the  pattern  for  documents  of  the  Grand  Secretariat,  and  Hu  Kuang's 
chang  and  tsou,  the  best  in  the  country,  were  both  great  literary  pro- 
ductions.8 A  perusal  of  Po-shih's  [or  Hu  Kuang's]  chang  on  his  visit 
to  the  royal  tombs  will  convince  us  of  the  elegance  of  his  classical  style.9 

5  The  Book  of  Poetry,  60/238/4. 

6  The  line  is  quoted  from  K'ao-hjung  chi,  which  means  to  give  form  or  to  make 
articulate.  See  also  Chou-li,  chiian  40,  p.  25a:  "[A  mixture  of]  red  with  white  is  called 
chang." 

7  See  note  9,  Chapter  XVII. 

8  Tso  Hsiung  flourished  during  the  beginning  of  the  second  century;  Hu  Kuang 
lived  from  91  to  172. 

9  The  work  is  lost. 


128  Memorial,  Part  I 

Long  ago,  Duke  Wen  of  Chin  [636-628  B.C.]  accepted  the  order  of 
enfeoffment  only  after  declining  it  three  times.  Hence,  since  the  end 
of  the  Han  no  one  has  memorialized  more  than  three  times  in  declining 
his  appointment.  And  Ts'ao  [Ts'ao]  considered  it  unnecessary  for  an 
official  to  memorialize  three  times  in  courtesy  declining,  and  also  felt 
that  the  memorial  should  not  contain  any  superficial  and  flowery 
rhetoric.  For  this  reason,  the  piao  and  chang  during  the  first  years  of 
the  Wei  dynasty  were  written  in  a  matter-of-fact  style.  If  one's  interest 
is  in  the  beautiful,  then  there  is  little  here  that  may  be  considered 
praiseworthy.  But  Wen-chii's  [or  K'ung  Yung's]  memorial  recom- 
mending Ni  Heng10  is  marked  with  lively  spirit  and  flying  colors, 
and  those  of  K'ung-ming  [or  Chu-ke  Liang],  bidding  farewell  to  the 
young  ruler,11  fully  express  his  ideas,  which  were  couched  in  smoothly 
flowing  language.  These  writings  may  differ  in  that  Wen-chii's  is 
beautiful  while  Chu-ke's  are  factual,  but  both  are  heroes  in  the  genre 
of  piao.  The  chang  and  piao  of  [Ch'en]  Lin  and  [Juan]  Yii  won  them 
great  fame  during  their  time;  K'ung-chang's  [or  Ch'en  Lin's]  was 
particularly  known  for  its  literary  vigor.  His  piao  is  indeed  the  standard 
of  its  kind.  Ch'en-ssu's  [or  Ts'ao  Chih's]  piao  is  the  best  of  all  these 
talented  works,  elegant  in  style,  melodic  in  prosody,  pure  in  language, 
and  clear  in  thought.  He  artfully  adapted  his  talents  to  things  as  they 
were,  and  always  described  the  changing  situation  with  the  same  life 
and  spirit.  Just  because  he  was  in  full  control  at  the  rein,  he  was  able  to 
maintain  an  equally  even  pace  whether  he  was  slowing  down  or 
speeding  up  his  tempo. 

During  the  first  years  of  the  Chin  dynasty,  Chang  Hua  [232-300] 
was  the  leader  among  writers  of  this  genre.  The  three  memorials  in 
which  he  declined  the  investiture  of  a  lordship  are  comprehensive  in 
reasoning  and  succinct  in  language;  in  elaborating  ideas  and  in  com- 
paring facts,  he  always  succeeded  in  producing  a  matched  pair.  The 

10  Flourishing  during  the  Chien-an  period,  196-220. 

11  Liu  Ch'an,  the  second  ruler  of  Shu,  one  of  the  three  kingdoms.  He  ruled  from 
223  to  263,  when  he  surrendered  to  the  Wei.  In  these  memorials,  K'ung-ming  outlined 
his  plans  for  the  invasion  of  Wei  and  gave  advice  to  the  young  ruler  concerning  the 
affairs  of  the  state. 


Memorial,  Part  I  129 

world  has  valued  his  "Chiao-liao  Fu"  [Ode  to  the  wren],  and  has 
overlooked  his  chang  and  piao.  The  memorial  by  Yang  [Hu,  221-278] 
declining  the  office  of  a  grand  general  has  been  greatly  praised,  and 
that  of  Yii  [Liang,  289-340]  declining  the  position  of  the  royal  private 
secretary  has  been  highly  lauded.  Clear  and  orderly  in  declaring  their 
minds,  theirs  are  works  marked  with  literary  grace.  The  memorial  by 
Liu  K'un  [270-317]  beseeching  [Emperor  Yuan]  to  assume  the  throne12 
and  Chang  Chun's  about  himself13  are  clear  and  straightforward,  both 
memorials  especially  excelling  in  their  narrative  accounts. 

The  functions  of  chang  and  piao  are,  respectively,  to  praise  royal 
virtues  and  to  express  one's  own  opinion  before  the  imperial  court. 
They  are  both  the  ornaments  of  the  person  responsible  for  them  and 
the  flowers  of  the  state.  With  the  chang  one  lays  bare  one's  heart  before 
the  imperial  gate;  therefore  its  rule  is  explicitness;  and  as  the  piao  is 
a  request  to  halt  a  certain  action,  there  should  be  brilliance  in  its  basic 
structure.  If  we  seek  after  the  reality  implied  in  the  names  of  both 
forms,  we  shall  find  that  the  chang  is  the  fundamental  form.  Therefore, 
the  form  of  a  chang  is  highly  articulated,  and  its  aim  is  to  achieve  the 
classical;  it  gives  the  essentials  without  being  sketchy,  and  is  clear 
without  being  circumstantial.  The  genre  of  piao  deals  with  a  wide 
variety  of  matters.  As  the  relative  positions  of  truth  and  falsehood  are 
always  changing,  the  piao  must  have  intellectual  delicacy  in  order  to 
insure  that  its  influence  will  prevail,  and  purity  of  style  to  drive  home 
the  effect  of  its  beauty.  However,  when  one  has  genuine  feelings,  his 
outward  expressions  are  dependent  upon  his  mental  attitude;  while 
superficial  writers'  feelings  become  cramped  by  the  literary  form.  If  one 
can  achieve  a  proper  balance  between  embellishment  and  compendious- 
ness,  so  that  flowers  and  fruits  are  in  good  proportion  to  each  other, 
and  if  there  is  complete  freedom  from  stammering,  one  will  have 
achieved  the  right  standard.  Tzu-Kung  [a  disciple  of  Confucius]  said, 
"Use  your  mind  to  control  ideas  and  your  words  to  win  confidence"; 

12  This  was  in  317  when  North  China  was  overrun  by  the  invading  tribes  from  the 
north.  The  ascension  of  Emperor  Yuan  to  the  throne  marked  the  beginning  of  the  Eastern 
Chin  dynasty. 

13  This  piece  has  not  been  identified. 


130  Memorial,  Part  I 

his  idea  is  that  literary  expressions  and  ideas  should  be  made  one.14 
Hsiin  Ch'ing  once  remarked  that  it  was  more  satisfying  to  see  a  man's 
beautiful  literary  expressions  than  woven  patterns  of  silk.15  Did  he 
not  express  an  idea  similar  to  Tzu-Kung's? 

The  Tsan: 

In  presenting  piao  at  the  imperial  gate 

Or  offering  advice  before  the  embroidered  screen,16 

Words  should  be  pure  and  clear 

And  ideas  stately  and  grand, 

Respectful  in  the  narrative  of  details, 

And  neatly  ordered,  in  putting  first  things  first  and  last  things  last. 

When  endowed  with  literary  talent,  a  man  of  virtue 

Produces  works  which  are  truly  works  of  art. 


XXIII.  Memorial,  Part  II  (The  Tsou  and  the  Ch'i) 


The  ministers  of  the  T'ang  and  Yii  dynasties  memorialized  the  throne 
by  word  of  mouth.  During  the  Ch'in  and  the  Han,  the  memorials  of 
the  officials  were  known  as  tsou.  Whether  the  memorial  was  concerned 
with  political  affairs,  institutions  and  rites,  a  report  of  an  emergency, 
or  an  accusation  and  impeachment,  its  general  name  was  tsou.  Tsou 
means  to  present,  that  is,  to  present  in  words  the  feeling  of  the  masses 
of  the  people  before  the  throne.  The  form  tsou  was  created  by  the 
first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in.  The  writings  of  the  [Ch'in]  legalists,1 
however,  were  not  known  for  their  literary  quality.  If  we  examine 
[Prime  Minister]  Wang  Wan's  memorial  lauding  the  military  merits 

14  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chtian  yin-te,  484/ai  12/3  Tso. 

15  Hsiintzu  chi-chieh,  chiian  3,  Chapter  5,  p.  53.  Liu  Hsieh  modified  the  statement  to 
suit  his  purpose. 

^See  note  1,  Chapter  XIX. 

1  The  Ch'in  built  its  rule  on  legalist  principles. 


Mem  orial,  Part  II  131 

and  virtue  of  [the  first  emperor],  with  its  terse  expressions  and  simple 
ideas,  or  that  of  Li  Ssu  about  [the  tomb  at]  Mount  Li,  brief  in  narrative 
and  absurd  in  ideas,  we  shall  see  that  the  lack  of  grace  and  benign 
spirit  in  government  has  found  expression  in  the  writings  of  the 
dynasty.2  Since  the  Han,  memorials  have  also  been  known  as  shang- 
shu3  [that  is,  presentation  of  a  shu\.  As  there  have  been  good  scholars 
in  great  number,  the  literary  quality  of  the  shu  has  been  most  com- 
mendable. Chia  Ps  memorial  on  the  importance  of  agriculture,  Ch'ao 
Ts'o's  on  military  affairs,  K'uang  Heng's  on  sacrificial  rites  to  heaven, 
Wang  Chi's  on  the  principle  of  conduct,  or  li,  Wen  Shu's  on  mitigating 
criminal  punishment,  and  Ku  Yung's  remonstrating  against  the  belief 
in  the  immortals4  are  works  marked  by  clear-cut  and  effective  reason- 
ing, and  smooth  and  readable  literary  style.  These  writers  may  be  said 
to  have  known  the  main  fine  points  of  the  genre. 

The  Later  Han  witnessed  the  emergence  of  many  worthies,  the 
brilliance  of  whose  magnificent  utterances  has  not  been  dimmed.  Yang 
Ping's  urgent  remonstrance  with  the  emperor  on  the  basis  of  a  natural 
calamity,5  and  Ch'en  Fan's  indignation  about  discriminatory  grants 
of  royal  favor6  are  works  [characterized  by  advice  so  frank  as  to  be 
painful  in  the  ear]  as  a  fishbone  [in  the  throat].7  Chang  Heng's  criti- 
cism of  earlier  historical  works,8  and  Ts'ai  Yung's  concern  about  court 
rituals9  are  specimens  of  erudition  and  lucidity. 

2  A  good  illustration  of  the  assumed  literary  principle  that  the  quality  of  a  government 
is  reflected  in  the  literary  writings  of  the  time. 

3  Shu  means  to  analyze  systematically. 

4  A  belief  advocated  by  the  religious  Taoists.  Many  Chinese  rulers,  desperate  for  im- 
mortality, succumbed  to  it. 

5  Emperor  Huan,  147-167,  overindulged  in  pleasures.  One  day  when  he  was  out  visit- 
ing, a  great  tree  was  blown  down,  roots  and  all,  by  a  big  wind.  Yang  Ping  took  this  as 
an  omen  which  augured  ill  for  the  emperor  if  he  did  not  mend  his  ways.  See  his  biog- 
raphy in  Hou-hanshu. 

6  Also  written  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Huan. 

7  Straightforward  advice  hurts  one's  ear  as  a  fishbone  in  one's  throat  hurts  his  throat. 
Hence  a  fishbone  in  the  throat  becomes  a  figure  for  frank  advice. 

8  Chang  Heng,  in  his  memorial  to  Emperor  An,  107-125,  listed  over  ten  items  in 
Ssu-ma  Ch'ien's  Shih-chi  and  Pan  Ku's  Han-shu  which  were  not  in  accord  with  historical 
facts,  and  expressed  the  desire  to  work  in  the  Tung-kuan  where  all  historical  records 
were  kept.  See  his  biography  in  the  Hou-hanshu,  chiian  89. 

9  See  his  biography  in  the  Hou-hanshu,  chiian  90  hsia. 


132  Memorial,  Part  II 

In  the  Wei  dynasty  there  arose  many  prominent  ministers,  who 
produced  a  large  number  of  literary  works.  Kao  T'ang's  [or  Kao  Tang- 
lung's]  astrological  memorial,10  Huang  Kuan's  memorial  on  education, 
Wang  Lang's  on  economy,  and  Chen  I's  on  the  competitive  examina- 
tions dealt  with  their  subject  matters  exhaustively,  and  with  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  government. 

The  Chin  dynasty  was  afflicted  with  a  great  deal  of  trouble,  and 
under  these  adverse  circumstances  masses  of  people  were  forced  to  take 
to  the  road.  Liu  Sung's  memorial  expressing  his  concern  about  the 
situation  of  the  times,  and  that  of  Wen  Ch'iao  expressing  his  anxiety 
about  the  lavish  expenditures  on  construction,  set  the  pattern  of  loyalty 
for  those  in  charge  of  the  management  of  the  state. 

The  tsou  as  a  form  of  writing  demands  as  its  foundation  the  qualities 
of  lucidity,  truthfulness,  simplicity,  and  sincerity;  and  it  opens  with  an 
approach  which  is  analytical  and  systematic.  The  ideas  expounded 
should  be  cogent  enough  to  fire  enthusiasm  for  carrying  the  task  to 
completion,  and  the  experience  of  the  author  broad  enough  to  enable 
him  to  follow  out  all  the  ramifications  of  the  reasoning.  He  should 
consider  the  principles  prevailing  in  ancient  times  in  his  management 
of  the  present,  and  keep  the  mass  of  details  under  control  and  reduce 
them  to  the  essential.  It  is  in  these  that  the  substance  of  this  form 
of  writing  consists. 

The  tsou's  function  in  accusation  and  impeachment  is  to  clarify 
the  law  and  rid  the  state  of  evil.  The  T'ai-p'u  of  the  Chou  checked  a 
criminal  act  and  corrected  evil  conduct;  the  Yii-shih  of  the  Ch'in 
enforced  the  law;  the  Han  created  the  Chung-ch'en  to  be  in  charge  of 
accusation  and  impeachment.11  These  officers  occupied  a  position  simi- 
lar to  that  of  a  striking  hawk,12  and  so  had  to  grind  and  sharpen 
their  spirits  to  such  a  point  that  stormy  winds  would  whirl  from  the 

10  Certain  astronomical  phenomena  were  taken  to  be  a  warning  given  by  the  August 
Heaven  to  the  Son  of  Heaven  for  his  misconduct. 

11  T'ai-p'u,  Yii-shih,  and  Chung-ch'en  were  law-enforcing  offices  of  the  respective 
dynasties. 

12  Hawk  is  used  as  a  figure  for  a  law-enforcing  officer  because  of  the  similar  nature 
of  ruthlessness. 


Memorial,  Part  II  133 

tips  of  their  brushes  and  cutting  frosts  settle  on  their  bamboo  strips.13 
K'ung  Kuang's  memorial  accusing  Tung  Hsien  is  a  factual  narrative 
of  the  latter's  crime,  while  that  of  Lu  Ts'ui  accusing  K'ung  Yung  is 
false  and  mudslinging  libel.  The  heart  of  a  great  scholar  is  indeed 
different  from  that  of  a  treacherous  man.14  Fu  Hsien  [of  Chin,  239- 
294]  was  a  man  of  strong  and  candid  character,  and  his  memorials 
are  marked  with  firm  and  biting  statements.  Liu  Wei  [of  Chin, 
flourishing  about  317]  was  stern  and  just,  and  yet  his  impeachment 
memorials  are  often  vague  and  sketchy.  Each  seems  to  have  his  own 
way  of  doing  things.  Later  writers  of  impeachment  memorials  used 
these  as  their  references,  and  although  new  forms  were  emerging 
every  day,  the  old  pattern  has  been  preserved  unchanged. 

While  the  aim  of  an  armorer  is  to  protect,  that  of  a  maker  of  arrows 
is  to  kill.15  Since  it  is  its  purpose  to  expose  evil,  an  impeachment 
memorial  cannot  help  but  be  severe  and  harsh.  In  the  Boo\  of  Poetry, 
when  censuring  a  sycophant,  it  says,  "Throw  him  to  the  wolf  and 
tiger";16  in  the  Boo\  of  Rites,  when  showing  displeasure  toward  those 
who  are  unprincipled,  it  compares  them  to  parrots  or  chimpanzees;17 
Mo  Ti,  in  denouncing  the  Confucians,  looked  upon  them  as  sheep  and 
hogs;  while  Mencius,  when  ridiculing  the  Mohists,  compared  them  to 
birds  and  beasts.18  If  we  find  such  cutting  expressions  in  Poetry,  Rites, 
Mencius,  and  Motzu,  how  can  we  expect  impeachment  memorials, 
whose  very  nature  is  severeness,  to  be  free  from  them?  Thus,  writers 
in  general  vie  with  one  another  in  the  art  of  upbraiding.  They  blow 
aside  the  fur  to  seek  faults19  and  penetrate  the  bone  to  find  crimes.20  They 

13  These  were  necessary  paraphernalia  for  rendering  a  court  judgment. 

14  See  Tung  Hsien 's  biography  in  Han-shu,  chiian  93,  and  that  of  K'ung  Yung  in 
Hou-han-shu,  chiian  100. 

15  Mengtzu  yin-te,  13/2A/7.  16  Mao-shih  yin-te,  48/200/6. 

17  The  Book  °f  Rites.  See  Li-chi  yin-te,  1/6,  "Ch'ii-li."  Both  parrots  and  chimpanzees 
can  talk,  but  they  are  not  men  because  they  do  not  live  according  to  moral  principles 
(//').  If  a  man  failed  to  live  according  to  moral  principles,  he  would  be  just  another 
parrot  or  chimpanzee. 

18  Motzu,  "Fei-ju,"  hsia;  Mengtzu  yin-te,  25/3B/9. 

19  A  phrase  used  in  the  biography  of  Prince  Ching  of  Chung-shan  in  Han-shu,  mean- 
ing to  go  out  of  the  way  to  discover  weak  points. 

20  This  line  may  also  be  interpreted  as:  ".  .  .  and  are  cruel  and  ruthless  in  their 
bone-penetrating  accusations." 


134  Memorial,  Part  II 

seem  to  be  good  at  scolding,  but  often  miss  the  golden  mean.  If  only 
they  could  open  wide  the  gate  of  morals  and  post  high  principles,  or 
erect  a  standard  by  pointing  to  the  road  of  righteousness,  then  those 
who  climbed  over  forbidden  walls  would  have  their  legs  broken  and 
those  who  sought  unsanctioned  short  cuts  would  lose  their  toes.21  And 
where  would  be  the  necessity  for  hot  words  and  scandalous  utterances, 
or  the  desire  to  blame  and  censure?  Thus,  in  an  effort  to  establish  a 
standard  and  to  apply  its  criteria  for  this  form  of  writing,  one  should 
first  understand  its  essential  nature.  Its  structure  should  conform  to  a 
certain  classic  form  and  its  language  possess  a  style  worthy  of  becoming 
a  prevailing  standard.  In  order  to  be  an  outstanding  hero  among  the 
feasting  guests,  upright  and  reverent  within  and  righteous  and  impar- 
tial without,  a  writer  in  this  genre  should  possess  the  legalist  spirit  of 
law  and  the  literary  vigor  of  the  Confucians;  he  should  be  able  to 
oppose  powerful  and  ruthless  forces  unafraid22  and  convey  his  con- 
victions through  ink,  giving  no  quarter  to  crooked  elements;23  indeed, 
his  voice  should  be  a  moving  influence  beyond  the  bamboo  strips. 

Ch'i,  or  to  inform,  means  literally  "to  open."  When  Kao-tsung 
[Emperor  Wu-ting  of  the  Shang;  1339-1279  B.C.]  said,  "Open  your 
heart  and  fertilize  my  mind,"24  he  was  using  the  term  in  this  sense. 
The  name  of  Emperor  Ching  [of  the  Early  Han]  was  Ch'i,  hence  it 
was  taboo  during  the  Han  and  the  term  ch'i  was  not  used.25  It  was 
during  the  Wei  period  that  short  notes  to  the  throne  were  called  ch'i. 
Sometimes  at  the  end  of  a  memorial,  ching-ch'i  ["I  respectfully  open 
my  heart,"  or  "respectfully  submitted"]  was  used  as  a  closing  phrase. 
Since  the  time  of  Chin,  ch'i  has  become  current  in  use.  It  is  used  either 
as  a  piao  or  as  a  tsou.  In  presenting  political  views  it  is  used  as  an 

21  Climbing  walls  and  taking  short  cuts  are  figures  for  behavior  which  does  not 
conform  to  the  recognized  moral  standard. 

22  Mao-shih  yin-te,  71/260/5.  2Z  Ibid.,  66/253/5. 

24  Kao-tsung  procured  the  services  of  Fu  Yueh,  an  able  minister  who  had  appeared  to 
him  in  a  dream.  The  line  quoted  was  addressed  to  Fu.  The  term  for  "open"  is  ch'i. 
Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  17/01 60-5. 

25  The  people  are  not  allowed  to  speak  or  write  the  character  which  happens  to  be 
part  of  the  name  of  their  ruler  or  of  their  father.  To  violate  this  taboo  is  considered  an 
act  of  sacrilege. 


Memorial,  Part  II  135 

alternate  to  the  tsou,  and  it  becomes  a  substitute  for  the  piao  when  it 
is  used  to  decline  the  conferment  of  a  title  of  nobility  or  to  express 
gratitude  for  royal  grace.  It  is  of  the  very  essence  of  its  nature  to  be 
pure,  to  be  conformable  to  the  principles  of  rhetoric  and  swift  in  tempo, 
to  be  distinct  and  clean  in  presenting  arguments,  and  to  be  in  beautiful 
literary  form  but  without  excessive  ornamentation.  These,  in  general, 
are  some  of  the  ideas  governing  the  genre  ch'i. 

Again,  the  piao  and  tsou  contain  ideas  which  are  firm  and  to  the 
point;  they  are  known  as  "frank  speaking,"  and  [because  it  is  frank, 
aims  at  correcting  the]  bias;  of  course,  if  the  kingly  way  itself  is  in- 
fested with  personal  bias,  the  spirit  of  the  broad  and  grand  is  violated.26 
[But  at  any  rate,  it  is  because  of]  its  [aiming  at  correcting]  the  personal 
bias27  [that  this  form]  is  known  as  frank  speaking.  And  Emperor 
Ch'eng  of  the  Han  highly  praised  Pan  Po's  frank  address,  just  because 
he  valued  straightforwardness. 

Ever  since  the  establishment  during  the  Han  dynasty  of  the  eight 
talented  scholars,28  there  have  been  secret  memorials  concerning  the 
principles  of  yin  and  yang.  These  memorials  were  submitted  in  sealed 
black  pouches,  a  circumstance  which  earned  them  the  name  of  "sealed 
memorials."  Now,  when  Ch'ao  Ts'o  had  received  instruction  in  the 
Boo^  of  History  [from  Fu-sheng],  he  came  back  and  reported  to  the 
emperor  on  pien-i  [that  is,  on  all  that  was  convenient  (pien)  to  the 
government  and  all  that  was  suitable  (/')  to  the  people].  And  later 
such  pien-i  were  often  attached  to  the  "sealed  memorials,"  the  idea 
being  to  keep  the  reports  a  top  government  secret.  The  king's  minis- 
ters, unselfish  in  motive,29  will  always  speak  frankly.  So  when  there 

26  In  the  "Hung  Fan"  of  the  Book,  of  History  we  have:  "There  is  neither  one-sided- 
ness  nor  partisan  spirit,  for  broad  and  grand  is  the  kingly  way;  and  there  is  neither 
partisan  spirit  nor  one-sidedness,  for  the  kingly  way  is  level  and  plain."  S hangs hu 
t'ung-chien,  24/0490-505. 

27  The  text  is  corrupt.  The  interpretation  given  here  is  based  on  the  emendated  read- 
ings of  Fan  Wen-Ian  and  Wang  Li-ch'i. 

28  Each  of  these  was  entrusted  with  one  special  duty:  some  in  charge  of  harmonizing 
the  yin  and  the  yang  principles,  some  in  charge  of  the  calendar,  music,  etc.  See  "Hsu 
li-yiieh  chih"  in  Hou-lian-shu,  and  Chang-huai's  commentary. 

29  An  abbreviated  quotation  from  the  Book,  of  Changes,  statement  attached  to  line  two 
of  the  hexagram  chien.  See  Chou-i  yin-te,  24/39/2.  The  full  line:  "The  king's  minister 


136  Memorial,  Part  II 

are  good  ministers,  there  will  be  good  government.  Therefore  it  is  not 
necessary  to  dwell  at  length  on  this  form  of  writing. 

The  Tsan: 
The  Ssu-chih30  in  black  garb 
Keeps  government  clean  of  all  evil  influences. 
With  brush  sharp  as  a  sword 
And  ink  deadly  as  poisonous  wine, 
His  censorious  cut  may  penetrate  the  bone, 
And  yet  it  will  not  mar  the  complexion. 
In  offering  political  views  or  suggesting  policies, 
He  is  the  man  to  trust. 


XXIV.  Discussion  and  Answer  (The  I  and  the  Tui) 


On  the  Plain  of  Chou  [King  Wen's  grandfather,  the  ancient  lord  Tan- 
fu]  asked  questions  and  discussed  [matters],1  and  "discussion"  is  the 
meaning  of  the  term  /'.  The  literal  meaning  of  /,  or  to  discuss,  is  1,  or 
appropriate,  [so  that  the  complete  concept  is]  "an  examination  of  mat- 
ters to  find  out  what  is  appropriate."  In  the  Boo\  of  Changes  under 
the  hexagram  chieh,  or  limitation,  it  is  said,  [Guided  by  hexagram 
chieh]  the  superior  man  creates  measures  and  discusses  the  nature  of 
virtue  and  conduct.2  Now  the  "Book  of  Chou"  [in  the  Boo\  of 
History]  says,  "When  affairs  are  discussed  according  to  certain  rules 


is  beset  by  obstruction  upon  obstruction,  but  it  is  not  due  to  his  selfish  motive." 

30  An  office  created  in  the  Han  to  assist  the  prime  minister  in  exposing  the  corrupt 
elements  in  the  government. 

1  A  combination  of  ideas  contained  in  two  lines  in  Poem  237  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 
In  this  poem  the  first  effort  in  the  building  of  the  Chou  dynasty  is  described.  Tan-fu 
was  discussing  problems  with  those  who  chose  to  follow  him  to  Mount  Ch'i,  to  which 
they  removed  under  the  pressure  of  the  western  tribes.  As  is  true  in  so  many  cases, 
it  is  the  term  "discussing"  which  attracts  our  author  in  whatever  context  it  occurs. 

2  Chou-i  yin-te,  36-37/60/hsiang. 


Discussion  and  Answer  137 

[or  chih],  the  government  will  be  free  from  error."3  So  according  to 
the  principles  laid  down  in  the  Classics  themselves,  in  this  type  of  dis- 
cussion chieh-chih  [that  is,  "limitation  and  regulation,"  or  simply  "the 
exercise  of  control"]  must  be  emphasized. 

Kuan  Chung  once  said  that  Hsuan-yiian  [the  Yellow  Emperor] 
instituted  the  practice  of  i  in  the  Tower  of  Enlightenment.4  So  it  is 
deeply  rooted  in  the  distant  past.  During  the  difficult  times  of  inunda- 
tion, Yao  asked  the  four  chiefs  for  advice;  and  Shun,  in  selecting  men 
to  fill  the  hundred  offices,  asked  for  the  opinion  of  the  five  ministers. 
The  rise  of  the  three  dynasties  [Hsia,  Shang,  and  Chou]  was  due  to 
their  efforts  in  seeking  advice  from  the  woodcutters  [or  the  common 
people].  In  the  Ch'un-ch'iu  it  is  related  that  when  [Ch'u]  freed  the 
duke  of  Sung,  Duke  Hsi  of  Lu  took  part  in  the  discussion.5  When 
King  Wu-ling  of  Chao  was  planning  to  adopt  barbarian  dress,6  his 
policy  was  contested  [tseng-lun]  by  his  uncle  [Prince  Ch'eng].7  And 
the  reform  policy  of  Shang  Yang  was  hotly  argued  [chiao-pien]  by 
Kan  Lung.8  Although  the  forms  [/',  or  discussion;  lun,  or  discourse; 
and  pien,  or  argument]  are  all  different,  it  is  easy  to  see  in  what  ways 
they  agree  and  differ. 

It  was  in  the  Han  dynasty  that  po-i  became  an  independent  term.9 
Po  means  mixed  [originally,  mixed  of  different  colors].  When  the  i 

8  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  40/0318-25. 

4  See  Kuantzu,  "Huan-kung  wen"  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian  18,  Chapter  56, 
p.  302. 

5  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,   117-118/Hsi  21/8,  8   Kung-yang. 

6  This  took  place  in  306  B.C.  See  "Chao  Shih-chia"  in  Shih-chi. 

7  /  has  been  defined  in  Chapter  XXII  as  "to  maintain  a  difference  of  opinion."  So  even 
though  the  term  i  does  not  appear  in  this  and  the  following  instance,  this  sense  of  the 
term  is  apparently  meant  when  the  author  speaks  of  "contesting"  or  "arguing." 

8  See  the  biography  of  Lord  Shang  in  Shih-chi.  Lord  Shang  was  a  legalist  and,  like 
all  the  legalists,  advocated  changes  in  the  government,  to  meet  the  need  of  the  time, 
which  were  based  upon  a  concept  of  history  closer  to  that  of  modern  times  than  any 
other  in  ancient  China.  But  Kan  Lung,  arguing  on  the  basis  of  ancient  sages'  principles, 
tried  to  wreck  his  reform  policy.  In  all  these  cases,  what  interests  the  author  is  the  fact 
of  arguing  or  discussing.  The  various  forms  of  arguing  or  discussing  represent  for  him 
the  different  moments  in  the  development  of  the  form  of  writing  called  /  in  this  chapter. 

9  See  the  four  forms  of  memorials  in  Chapter  XXII,  of  which  the  fourth  is  i,  an 
abbreviated  form  of  po-i.  Po-i  is  the  kind  of  memorial  which  maintains  a  personal  opinion 
differing  from  the  opinion  of  others. 


138  Discussion  and  Answer 

is  not  pure  but  mixed,  it  is  characterized  as  po.  With  the  explicit 
definition  of  the  i  during  the  two  Han  periods,  it  achieved  a  distinct 
form.  As  the  court  was  crowded  with  talented  scholars,  it  was  filled 
with  their  discourse.  Chia  I,  in  his  effort  to  express  the  ideas  for  the 
old  scholars  at  court,  was  an  example  of  a  nimble  talent  for  discussion.10 
As  for  Chu-fu's  i  arguing  against  the  prohibition  of  carrying  bows,11 
[Han]  An-kuo's  argument  about  the  Huns,12  Chia  Chuan-chih's  con- 
tention over  the  expedition  against  Chu-yai,13  and  Liu  Hsin's  i  on  the 
controversy  over  the  worship  of  the  royal  ancestors,14  they  may  differ 
in  content  as  well  as  in  language,  but  they  have  all  achieved  the 
essential  aims  of  the  genre. 

Then  there  were  Chang  Min's  judgment  on  the  law  governing 
insult,15  Kuo  Kung's  argument  about  exercising  the  power  of  execu- 
tion on  one's  own  authority,16  Ch'eng  Hsiao's  condemnation  of  the 

10  See  his  biography  in  Shih-chi. 

11  "Chu  Fu"  should  be  "Wu-ch'iu."  See  the  biography  of  Wu-ch'iu  Shou-wang  in 
Han-shu,  where  the  1  is  recorded. 

12  See  his  biography  in  Han-shu. 

13  See  his  biography  in  Han-shu.  Chu-yai  is  the  present  Hai-nan  island  south  of 
Kuangtung  province.  The  natives  rebelled  against  the  Han  rule,  and  there  was  talk  of 
sending  an  expedition  against  them.  Chia  Chiian-chih  argued  against  it. 

14  During  the  first  year  of  Emperor  Ai  (6  B.C.),  after  a  long  controversy  over  the 
problem  of  how  many  ancestral  halls  were  to  be  maintained  by  the  ruling  house  and 
which  were  to  be  discontinued  after  a  certain  period,  Liu  Hsin  came  forth  with  the 
proposal,  based  on  the  "Wang-chih"  (the  King's  Institution)  in  the  Li-chi,  that  the  Son 
of  Heaven  maintain  seven  ancestral  halls,  which  he  defended  against  various  other  pro- 
posals, including  one  that  only  five  halls  be  maintained.  Liu  Hsin  also  believed  that  a 
ruler  with  great  achievements  should  have  a  hall  maintained  permanently.  He  included 
in  this  category  the  hall  of  Emperor  Wu,  which  it  had  previously  been  urged  should  be 
discontinued  at  a  given  time. 

15  During  the  reign  of  Chien-ch'u  (76-83)  a  son  killed  a  man  who  had  insulted  his 
father.  Emperor  Chang  (76-88)  pardoned  him,  saving  him  from  execution,  the  punish- 
ment for  killing.  During  the  next  reign,  that  of  Emperor  Ho  (89-105),  this  precedent 
became  established  as  law,  known  as  the  law  governing  insult.  Chang  Min,  afraid  that 
this  might  lead  to  lawlessness,  argued  against  it.  Emperor  Ho  accepted  his  advice. 

16  During  the  reign  of  Yung-p'ing  (58-59),  Ch'in  P'eng,  a  subordinate  of  General 
Tou  Ku,  was  given  a  separate  command.  He  executed  people  on  his  own  authority.  Tou 
Ku  reported  it  to  the  throne  as  a  case  of  insubordination.  The  emperor  had  the  ministers 
at  court  discuss  the  matter.  With  the  exception  of  Kuo  Kung,  all  ministers  were  in  favor 
of  Tou  Ku's  opinion  that  Ch'in  P'eng  had  no  authority  to  execute  people  without  first 
reporting  the  case  to  his  superior.  Kuo  argued  that  since  P'eng  had  been  given  a  separate 
command,  he  should  also  exercise  the  authority  of  control  over  his  forces,  as  it  would  be 
impossible  for  him   to  carry  out  his  duty   with  any  degree  of  efficiency   if   he  had   to 


Discussion  and  Answer  139 

chiao-shih,17  Ssu-ma  Chih's  discussion  about  the  use  of  coin,18  Ho 
Tseng's  proposal  to  exempt  married  daughters  from  being  involved 
in  the  crime  of  their  father's  family,19  Ch'in  Hsiu's  suggestion  on 
Chia  Ch'ung's  posthumous  title;20  all  these  are  good  and  appropriate 
in  view  of  the  facts  they  were  dealing  with.  The  authors  may  be  said 
to  have  understood  the  principles  of  the  form  of  i. 

During  the  Han  period  Ying  Shao  led  the  group  of  the  best  dis- 
putants; and  during  Chin  times  it  was  Fu  Hsien  who  stood  out  among 
the  able  i  writers.  Chung-yuan  [or  Ying  Shao],  a  learned  scholar  of 
antiquity,  was  systematic  in  explanation  and  organization;  Ch'ang-yii 
[or  Fu  Hsien],  on  the  other  hand,  though  possessing  considerable 
knowledge  of  government,  was  rather  loose  and  verbose  in  his  presen- 
tation. Lu  Chi's  judgment  in  his  discussion  [of  the  proper  form  for 
the  biographies  of  the  first  three  rulers  of]   the   Chin   dynasty21   is 

consult  his  superior  in  matters  which  required  immediate  decision.  The  emperor  accepted 
his  opinion, 

17  The  chiao-shih  were  all-purpose  officials  created  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Wu 
of  Han  to  meet  a  certain  emergency;  they  became  very  powerful  and  arrogant  during 
the  time  of  Chia-p'ing  (249-254)  of  the  Wei  dynasty.  They  interfered  with  every  office, 
simply  because  there  was  no  clear-cut  definition  of  their  functions.  As  a  result  of  Ch'eng's 
argument  against  them,  the  office  was  abolished. 

18  In  221  Emperor  Wen  of  the  Wei  dynasty  abolished  the  use  of  coin  and  ordered 
grains  and  silk  to  be  used  in  its  stead.  During  the  next  reign,  speculators  wet  the  grain 
and  reduced  the  weight  of  the  silk,  creating  a  great  deal  of  confusion.  Ssu-ma  Chih 
counseled  returning  to  the  use  of  coin.  Emperor  Ming  ordered  that  the  use  of  coin 
be  restored. 

19  Previously  a  woman  had  been  criminally  implicated  if  either  her  father's  family  or 
her  husband's  had  committed  a  crime.  Ho  Tseng,  in  the  memorial  prepared  for  him  by 
Ch'eng  Hsien,  argued  that  it  was  against  the  spirit  of  the  law  to  place  a  woman  in 
double  jeopardy.  His  final  contention  was  that  an  unmarried  woman  should  be  involved 
only  in  her  father's  crime,  and  a  married  woman  only  in  that  of  her  husband's  family. 

20  Chia  Ch'ung,  one  of  the  strong  men  who  helped  the  house  of  Ssu-ma  in  usurping 
the  throne  from  the  house  of  Ts'ao  and  establishing  the  Chin  dynasty,  died  without  male 
issue.  His  wife  adopted  the  son  of  their  daughter,  whose  surname  was  Han,  to  carry  on 
the  line.  Ch'in  Hsiu  ridiculed  this  act.  When  the  imperial  order  came  that  a  posthumous 
title  be  suggested  for  Chia  Ch'ung,  Ch'in  Hsiu  proposed  htiang,  a  title  traditionally  con- 
ferred upon  those  whose  conduct  was  not  in  accordance  with  the  correct  principles.  The 
proposal  was  not  accepted. 

21  Lu's  opinion  in  this  matter  is  preserved  in  Ch'u-shiieh  chi,  a  collection,  edited  by 
Hsu  Chien  et  al.  of  the  T'ang  under  the  auspices  of  the  imperial  personage.  Lu  Chi 
believed  that  the  first  three  rulers  of  the  Chin  dynasty  had  been  ministers  of  the  Wei 
dynasty  throughout  their  lives,  and  hence  their  lives  should  be  written  in  the  form  of 
"true  records,"  but  that  since  they  enjoyed  the  name  of  rulers  the  style  should  be  that 
of  chi,  or  annals.  See  Chapter  XVI  on  History. 


140  Discussion  and  Answer 

sharp  and  keen.  However,  its  literary  vigor  suffers  from  his  verbosity. 
But  nevertheless  each  writer  has  his  own  beauty  and  has  preserved 
for  us  his  characteristic  style. 

Action  should  be  preceded  by  discussion22  and  understanding  must 
come  from  investigation  of  the  doubtful;23  for  it  is  thus  that  one  is 
enabled  to  approach  the  task  of  dealing  with  affairs  of  state  in  a  spirit 
of  reverence  and  vigilance  capable  of  rendering  his  statescraft  widely 
effective.  Therefore,  in  substance,  the  1  must  be  based  on  an  adoption 
of  the  Classics  as  pivot;  on  a  selection  of  facts  from  previous  times, 
adapted  to  the  changing  needs  of  the  present;  on  reasoning  which 
does  not  try  to  complicate  matters  by  adducing  inconsequential  ramifi- 
cations, and  must  use  rhetoric  which  does  not  elaborate  any  embel- 
lishment unnecessarily.  When  dealing  with  worship  and  sacrifice,  the 
writer  should  know  thoroughly  the  rites  connected  with  it,  and  in 
military  matters,  he  should  be  versed  in  the  art  of  war.  A  knowledge 
of  agriculture  is  a  prerequisite  for  dealing  with  agricultural  matters, 
and  a  thorough  understanding  of  law  is  the  sine  qua  non  of  any 
attempt  to  pass  a  legal  judgment.  When  all  these  requirements  have 
been  met,  the  writer  may  bring  forth  ideas  which  are  transparently 
clear,  succinctly  couched  in  language  which  is  both  accurate  and  proper. 
His  ability  to  use  language  should  appear  in  the  lucidity  and  purity 
of  his  style,  and  he  should  not  aim  at  artifice  through  excessive  orna- 
ment. In  dealing  with  events  he  should  strive  for  clearness  and  thor- 
oughness, and  he  should  never  seek  originality  by  seemingly  profound 
but  vague  presentation.  This  is  the  general  outline  of  the  form  of  /'. 
If  a  writer  ignorant  of  the  art  of  government  wields  his  brush  and 
plays  with  literary  composition,  piling  random  phrase  upon  phrase, 
fabricating  and  concocting  to  show  his  cleverness,  not  only  is  his 
empty  rhetoric  refuted  in  the  face  of  facts,  but  even  the  little  reason 
he  may  have  is  buried  under  the  pile  of  his  own  aimless  rhetoric.  Long 
ago,  the  Marquis  of  Ch'in,  who  was  marrying  his  daughter  to  the 
Prince   of   Chin,   sent   along   [seventy]    beautifully   dressed   maids-in- 

22  Chou-i  yin-te,  41/hsi  hsiang/6.  2S  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  24/0137-40. 


Discussion  and  Answer  141 

waiting,  and  the  Prince  of  Chin  preferred  the  maids  to  the  princess.24 
A  man  from  Ch'u  sold  pearls  in  a  cassia-tinted  magnolia  case  to  a 
man  of  Cheng,  and  the  man  of  Cheng  bought  the  case  and  returned 
the  pearls.25  If  one's  language  surpasses  his  ideas,  permitting  the  un- 
essential to  outshine  the  fundamental,  it  is  simply  a  repetition  of  the 
cases  of  the  Ch'in  princess  and  the  Ch'u  pearls. 

In  a  tui-ts'e,26  one  expresses  his  political  opinion  in  answer  to  ques- 
tions given  in  an  edict;  and  in  a  she-ts'e27  one  makes  an  investigation 
of  the  matter  in  question  and  then  presents  his  opinion.  When  one's 
words  are  to  the  point,  it  is  like  hitting  the  mark  in  archer  target- 
practice.  Though  these  terms  are  different  from  /,  they  are,  in  fact,  i 
under  new  garb. 

In  ancient  times  the  selection  of  accomplished  scholars  was  made  by 
choosing  those  able  in  practical  affairs  and  investigating  their  words. 
It  was  in  the  middle  of  the  reign  of  Emperor  Wen  of  the  Han  [179-157 
B.C.]  that  the  recommendation  of  the  hsien-liang,  or  the  virtuous  and 
good,  was  first  put  into  practice.28  And  Ch'ao  Ts'o,  in  his  tui-ts'e29 
proved  himself  the  best  of  all.  Emperor  Wu  [140-87  B.C.],  bent  on  a 
more  enlightened  government,  sought  men  of  eminent  ability.  At  that 
time,  in  the  tui-ts'e  competition,  the  first  man  on  the  list  received  im- 
mediate official  appointment,  and  in  the  she-ts'e  competition,  the  one 
who  was  in  the  chia  or  the  highest  category30  entered  officialdom.  These 
were  important  among  the  methods  used  for  the  selection  of  men  of 
ability.  Ch'ao  Ts'o  in  his  tui-ts'e  drew  evidence  from  both  ancient  and 

24  See  Han-fei-tzu,  chiian  n,  Chapter  32,  "Wai  ch'u-shuo,"  tso,  hsiang,  p.  198. 

25  Ibid.,  pp.  198-99. 

26  A  memorial  in  which  one  answers  specific  questions  in  an  edict. 

27  Literally,  to  shoot  an  edict,  a  memorial  in  which  one  gives  an  answer  to  a  question 
he  chooses  from  among  a  number  of  questions,  the  nature  of  which  is  not  previously 
revealed. 

28  This  occurred  in  the  year  165  B.C.,  when  Ch'ao  Ts'o  came  out  first  on  the  list. 
Early  in  the  second  year  of  the  reign  of  Emperor  Wen,  178  B.C.,  the  first  imperial  edict 
went  out  for  the  recommendation  of  the  virtuous  and  good,  but  it  was  the  second  edict 
which  brought  in  the  first  crop  of  them. 

29  In  this  memorial  Ch'ao  gave  an  answer  to  the  emperor's  question  on  the  problem 
of  establishing  peace  and  prosperity. 

30  The  questions  to  be  answered  in  a  she-ts'e  are  classified  into  different  categories 
according  to  the  degree  of  their  difficulty.  The  most  difficult  are  in  the  chia  category. 


142  Discussion  and  Answer 

modern  sources;  his  language  is  clear-cut  and  effective,  and  the  facts 
he  cites  are  pertinent  and  well  chosen.  His  placement  at  the  top  of  the 
list  was  very  well  justified  indeed.  [Tung]  Chung-shu's  tui-tse  con- 
tinued the  tradition  set  forth  in  the  Ch'un-ch'iu.  His  was  grounded 
in  the  transforming  principles  of  the  yin  and  the  yang,  and  he  was 
fully  cognizant  of  the  changes  which  took  place  in  succeeding  dynasties. 
He  had  to  deal  with  a  large  mass  of  material,  but  he  remained  free 
from  distraction.  This  was  because  he  thoroughly  understood  the 
principles  of  things.  Kung-sun  [Hung's]  tui-tse  is  brief,  showing  no 
sign  of  learned  scholarship;  but  in  view  of  his  concentration  on  es- 
sentials and  expression  of  them  in  succinct  language,  and  the  perti- 
nence of  the  facts  he  cited  to  make  clear  the  true  nature  of  the  situation, 
he  deserved  his  elevation  to  the  top  by  the  Son  of  Heaven  in  spite  of 
his  low  rating  by  the  T'ai-ch'ang.31  Tu  Ch'in's  tui-tse  was  sketchy 
and  left  some  of  the  imperial  questions  unanswered,  but  it  pointed 
out  the  real  source  of  the  emperor's  trouble;32  he  wrote  to  express  his 
views  on  politics  and  government;  he  was  not  writing  simply  for 
writing's  sake.  In  the  Later  Han,  Lu  P'ei's  tui-tse  was  sincere  and 
simple  in  language  and  in  spirit.  He  brought  to  the  form  the  grace 
and  elegance  of  a  great  Confucian,  and  [from  among  more  than  a 
hundred  scholars]  he  alone  was  placed  at  the  top.  The  five  writers 
listed  above  set  the  bright  standard  of  former  times.  Since  then  Wei 
and  Chin  writers  have  gone  in  for  literary  embellishment.  We  can 
expect  a  great  deal  of  difficulty  when  one  whose  chief  interest  is  in 
embellishment  tries  to  record  facts;  and  those  selected  to  answer  im- 
perial questions  in  later  times  often  pleaded  illness  and  kept  away  from 
the  tests.  Thus  it  became  impossible  to  get  writing  which  was  even 
literary.  During  the  Han  time  when  a  feast  was  given  in  honor  of  the 
po-shih,  or  learned  scholars,  pheasants  gathered  in  the  court,33  but 

31  An  office  in  charge  of  ceremonial  rites,  which  traditionally  is  also  in  charge  of 
education  and  state  examination. 

32  The  questions  for  answers  came  from  Emperor  Ch'eng  (32-7  B.C.),  who  indulged 
in  women.  At  the  end  of  Tu  Ch'in's  answer,  he  admonished  the  emperor  about  his 
indulgence,  which  was  the  emperor's  real  trouble. 

33  This  happened  in   18  B.C.,  the  third  year  of  Hung-chia    (20-17  Bc)   during  the 


Discussion  and  Answer  143 

when  the  Chin  [emperor]  examined  the  hsiu-ts'ai,  or  outstanding  tal- 
ents, only  chun,  or  a  species  of  deer,  appeared.34  There  is  nothing 
strange  about  these  [contrasting]  circumstances,  because  in  one  case 
the  examination  system  was  well  kept,  while  in  the  other  case  it 
showed  signs  of  neglect. 

A  po-i35  is  a  memorial  in  which  one  argues  one-sidedly,  and  each 
arguer  holds  to  his  own  opinion.  In  a  tui-ts'e,  one  develops  his  point 
of  view  in  answer  to  the  imperial  questions  in  order  to  bring  forth 
the  principles  of  government.  In  dealing  with  the  events  of  the  day, 
he  shows  his  deep  understanding  of  the  art  of  ruling,  and  in  presenting 
his  reasons,  he  proves  to  be  a  man  of  insight  with  respect  to  the  current 
situation.  He  goes  back  to  the  Three  Sovereigns  and  the  Five  Emperors 
for  suggestions  to  mould  the  present  world,  and  his  is  not  circuitous 
high-sounding  empty  talk.  He  recommends  measures  which  are  ex- 
pedient under  changing  circumstances  to  get  the  people  out  of  difficulty, 
and  his  is  not  the  sharp  eloquence  of  a  sophist.  Like  winds  sweeping 
over  the  vastness  of  space  and  reaching  far,  or  a  river  full  and  yet  not 
overflowing — a  tui  such  as  this  is  an  excellent  answer  in  the  court  of 
the  king. 

Difficult  indeed  is  the  task  of  evaluating  the  talent  of  a  scholar.  He 
may  be  versed  in  the  art  of  ruling  but  lack  the  ability  to  write,  or  he 
may  possess  literary  ability  and  yet  be  inexperienced  in  government. 


reign  of  Emperor  Ch'eng.  The  gathering  of  pheasants  was  considered  a  good  omen, 
happening  only  at  a  time  when  there  was  good  government  and  peace,  and  when  art 
and  literature  were  patronized  at  court. 

34  The  connotation  of  the  term  chiin  is  not  clear.  Sun  Sheng  took  it  to  be  an  auspicious 
omen,  indicating  patronage  of  art  and  literature  at  court.  See  Chins hu,  "Wu-hsing-chi." 
In  this  sense,  its  appearance  could  be  considered  as  untimely,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
appearance  of  the  unicorn,  which  prompted  Confucius  to  give  up  editing  the  Ch'un-ch'iu. 
From  the  context,  however,  the  term  chiin  seems  to  augur  ill,  perhaps  to  symbolize  a  lack 
of  patronage  of  art  and  literature.  In  Chapter  XLVIII  Liu  Hsieh  contrasted  chiin  with  lin, 
the  legendary  unicorn.  But  this  is  hardly  sufficient  evidence  to  establish  the  connotation 
of  the  term  chiin,  because  in  that  chapter  he  also  contrasted  chih,  a  pheasant,  which 
means  a  good  omen  in  our  present  context,  with  feng,  a  phoenix,  thus  making  chih 
necessarily  a  symbol  for  something  not  auspicious.  Perhaps,  this  is  another  case  of  our 
author's  looseness  in  the  use  of  terms. 

35  See  note  9  above. 


144  Discussion  and  Answer 

The  object  of  selection  through  tui-ts'e  should  be  men  of  versatile 
talents,  men  full  of  ideas  who  have  enough  literary  ability  to  communi- 
cate them  far  and  wide.  Rare  indeed  is  such  talent! 

The  Tsan: 
The  object  of  the  i  is  political  planning, 

And  there  should  be  a  complete  accord  between  the  word  and  the  fact. 
There  should  always  be  a  valid  reason  for  making  any  judgment, 
And  the  language  in  which  it  is  expressed  should  never  be  weak. 
In  answering  imperial  questions  at  court, 
Many  minds  meet  at  the  same  time  to  reach  concord. 
The  principles  of  government  are  held  in  high  esteem, 
And  are  conveyed  far  and  wide  in  elegant  form. 


XXV.  Epistolary  Writing  (The  Shu  and  the  Chi) 


The  great  Shun  [of  the  Yii  dynasty]  said,  "The  function  of  shu  is  to 
keep  records,"1  that  is,  to  record  the  events  of  the  day.  For  shu  is  the 
general  name  for  the  words  of  sages  and  men  of  virtue.  It  is  the  nature 
of  the  shu  that  its  principal  emphasis  is  on  words.  Yang  Hsiung  said, 
"Words  are  the  sound  of  the  mind;  and  shu  is  its  picture."2  When  the 
mind's  sound  and  picture  take  form,  we  shall  be  able  to  see  in  them 
the  character  of  the  man,  whether  he  is  a  man  of  virtue  or  a  petty  man. 
Thus  by  shu  is  meant  to  express,  that  is  to  express  one's  mind  in  words 
and  put  them  down  on  bamboo  or  wooden  slips.  This  is  the  result  of 
taking  a  suggestion  from  the  hexagram  \uai,z  whose  emphasis  is  on 
clear-cut  lucidity. 

1  S hangs hu  t'ung-chien,  5/0271-4.  Shu  here  means  writing  in  the  form  of  a  book. 
Later  it  came  to  mean  letter  writing. 

2  Yang-tzu   fa-yen    (Chu-tzu   chi-ch'eng   ed.),   chiian    5,   p.    14.   Here  shu   apparently 
means  writing  down  the  words. 

3  Hexagram  no.  43.  See  l-ching,  I,  177. 


Epistolary  Writing  145 

During  the  Three  Dynasties4  the  function  of  the  government  was 
simple,  and  there  was  little  epistolary  writing.  During  the  period  of 
Ch'un-ch'iu,  international  relations  became  more  complicated,  and  the 
volume  of  letters  and  number  of  emissaries  greatly  increased.  Jao-ch'ao 
presented  Shih-hui  a  ts'e?  Tzu-chia  [of  Cheng]  wrote  a  letter  to  Chao 
Hsuan-tzu  [of  Chin],6  Wu-ch'en  left  Tzu-fan  a  note,7  and  Tzu-ch'an 
[of  Cheng]  sent  a  letter  to  Fan  Hsiian-tzu  of  Chin  remonstrating 
[against  Chin's  demanding  heavy  tribute  from  smaller  states].8  Reading 
these  four  letters,  one  feels  he  is  talking  face  to  face  with  the  authors. 
Again  when  [Duke  Ch'eng  of]  T'eng  died,  Tzu-shu  Ching-shu  [of 
Lu]  presented  T'eng  with  a  letter  of  condolence.9  From  the  existence 
of  these  examples,  we  know  that  words  entrusted  to  envoys  were  often 
put  down  in  the  form  of  epistles. 

The  epistolary  writings  during  the  Seven  States  period  were  clever 
and  beautiful,  and  there  were  many  of  them.  And  the  body  of  writing 
of  this  type  dating  from  the  time  of  Han  presents  a  profuse  variety 
of  expressions  and  spirits.  Shih-ch'ien's  [or  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien's]  letter  to 
Jen-an,  Tung-fang  So's  letter  arguing  with  Kung-sun  [Hung],  Yang 
Yun's  answer  to  [Sun]  Hui-tsung,  and  Tzu-yiin's  [or  Yang  Hsiung's] 
reply  to  Liu  Hsin  are  all  works  characterized  by  grand  ideas  and  a 
lofty  spirit,  each  having  its  own  particular  pattern;  each  is  an  em- 

4  Traditionally,  the  three  dynasties  of  Hsia,  Shang,  and  Chou.  Here  the  author  appar- 
ently used  it  to  include  Hsia,  Shang,  and  the  first  part  of  Chou. 

5  There  are  two  interpretations  of  the  term  ts'e:  a  horsewhip  and  a  bamboo  slip  con- 
taining a  political  message.  The  author  apparently  adopted  the  second  interpretation. 
But  the  first  interpretation  is  more  fitting  with  the  situation  of  a  departing  man.  See 
Tso-chuan,  Duke  Wen,  thirteenth  year  (Shih-san-ching  chu-su  ed.),  chiian  19  hsia, 
p.  10b,  commentaries. 

6  In  the  seventeenth  year  of  Duke  Wen  of  Lu,  Chin  met  with  the  lords  at  Huang-fu 
in  a  conference.  The  Duke  of  Chin  refused  to  see  the  Marquis  of  Cheng  because  Cheng 
had  shown  some  tendency  to  align  itself  with  the  state  of  Ch'u.  Cheng  Tzu-chia  wrote 
the  letter  to  explain  Cheng's  earlier  dealings  with  Ch'u.  See  Ch-un-ch'iu  ching-chuan 
yin-te,  174/  Wen  17/5  Tso. 

7  Wu-chen,  a  minister  of  Ch'u,  who  fled  to  Chin  when  Tzu-fan  and  Tzu-chung,  on 
account  of  old  grudges,  massacred  Wu-ch'en's  clan,  wrote  a  note  to  Tzu-fan  and  Tzu- 
chung  from  Chin,  stating  that  he  would  not  give  either  of  them  any  rest.  He  then  went 
from  Chin  to  Wu,  an  undeveloped  state  neighboring  Ch'u,  and  taught  the  Wu  people 
the  art  of  war.  After  this,  Wu  became  a  constant  threat  to  Ch'u,  giving  Tzu-fan  and 
Tzu-chung  no  rest  at  all.  Ibid.,  225 /Ch'eng  7/  10  Tso. 

8  Ibid.,  302/Hsiang  24/fu  1.  *  Li-chi  yin-te,  4/46. 


146  Epistolary  Writing 

broidery  on  a  foot  of  silk,10  expressing  all  the  flutterings  and  oscilla- 
tions of  the  square-inch  heart.11 

In  the  Later  Han  period,  Ts'ui  Yuan  was  especially  good  at  the 
art  of  letter  writing.  During  the  Wei,  Yiian-yu  [or  Juan  Yii  ?]  was 
described  as  "light  and  swift."12  And  the  writings  of  Wen-chii  [or 
K'ung  Yung]  were  all  preserved,  including  fragments  [in  recognition 
of  their  excellence].13  Hsiu-lien  [or  Ying  Chii]  loved  letter  writing  and 
paid  much  attention  to  its  perfection,  but  his  must  be  ranked  as  sec- 
ondary. Hsi  K'ang's  letter  severing  friendly  relations  [with  Shan  T'ao; 
205-283]  is  one  marked  by  lofty  ideas  and  a  grand  style.1*  Chao  Chih's 
letter  [to  Hsi  Fan]  depicting  his  sadness  at  separation  is  expressive  of 
the  eagerness  and  impatience  of  youth.  As  to  the  hundred  letters  dictated 
by  Ch'en  Tsun,  each  conveys  his  feelings  in  exactly  the  right  measure, 
and  as  to  those  written  by  Ni  Heng  [for  Huang  Tsu],  each  is  ap- 
propriate in  expressing  sentiments  toward  relations  of  all  degrees  of 
closeness.  These  two  were  especially  talented  in  the  art  of  letter  writing. 

A  general  survey  of  the  nature  of  shu  reveals  that  its  purpose  is  to 
state  one's  feelings  in  words  without  reserve,  and  its  function  is  to  un- 
burden the  mind  of  its  melancholy  thought  in  the  form  of  elegant 
colors.  Therefore  its  style  should  be  orderly  and  smooth,  capable  of 
expressing  the  spirit  of  the  writer,  easy  and  soft  and  pleasant  to  the 
reader.  With  its  language  clear  and  natural,  it  is  indeed  the  presentation 
of  the  sound  of  the  heart. 

The  distinction  of  men  of  honor  and  nobility  is  brought  out  by  the 
attitude  of  reverence  expressed  in  the  ceremonial  form.  Before  the 
Warring  States  period,  the  epistles  of  both  the  ruler  and  the  ministers 
were  styled  shu.  With  the  establishment  of  Ch'in  institutions,  we  ob- 

10  Silk  was  then  the  writing  material. 

11  See  p.  108  above,  and  note  39,  Chapter  XVIII. 

12  A  term  Wei  Wen-ti — Ts'ao  P'ei — used  in  his  letter  to  Wu  Chih  ( ?-23o)  to  describe 
Juan  Yii's  letter  writing.  See  Wen-hsiian  (Ssu  pu  pei-yao  ed.),  chiian  42,  p.  421. 

13  Wei  Wen-ti  liked  K'ung  Yung's  writing  so  much  that  he  ordered  everything 
written  by  him  to  be  presented  to  the  court  for  prizes  of  gold  and  silk. 

14  Shan  T'ao,  about  to  retire,  was  going  to  recommend  Hsi  K'ang  to  take  his  place. 
On  hearing  this,  Hsi  wrote  a  letter  swearing  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  him.  Hsi,  who 
had  a  Taoist  bent,  was  afraid  to  be  mixed  up  in  the  politics  of  that  tumultuous  time. 


Epistolary  Writing  147 

serve  the  first  appearance  of  piao  and  tsou.15  In  the  case  of  the  epistles 
to  princes  and  dukes,  the  term  tsou-shu,  or  memorial  letter,  was  also 
used.  The  tsou-shu  of  Chang  Ch'ang  to  the  mother  of  Prince  Chiao- 
tung  expresses  excellent  ideas.16  Various  terms  appeared  during  the 
Later  Han.  In  the  office  of  the  [San-]kung  [the  three  highest  ministers], 
the  term  tsou-chi,  or  letter  presenting  the  record,  was  used  [for  corre- 
spondence], while  in  the  headquarters  of  local  generals,  tsou-ch'ien,  or 
letter  presenting  the  note,  was  used.  Chi  means  to  express  one's  ideas, 
that  is,  to  present  his  ideas.  Ch'ien  means  to  express,  that  is,  to  express 
and  indicate  one's  feelings.  Ts'ui  Shih's  tsou-chi  [to  Liang  Chi]17 
sounded  the  moral  tone  of  self-effacement  and  yielding;  while  Huang 
Hsiang's  tsou-ch'ien  at  Chiang-hsia18  left  behind  a  pattern  in  expressing 
reverence.  Kung-kan's  [or  Liu  Chen's]  ch'ien  and  chi,  or  letters  to 
high  ministers  and  local  generals,  or  letter  writing  in  general,  are 
beautiful  and  contain  ideas  which  prove  to  be  beneficial  advice  to 
the  receivers.  And  yet  Tzu-huan  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  left  him  out  [of  his 
essay  on  literature],  a  fact  which  accounts  for  his  neglect  by  the  world. 
If  we  overlook  the  reputation  and  concentrate  on  the  fact,  we  shall  see 
that  Liu  Ch'en's  epistolary  writings  are  much  more  beautiful  than  his 
poetry.  Liu  I's  letter  expressing  his  gratitude  for  royal  grace  contains 
pertinent  similes  reflecting  his  sincere  sentiment,  and  Lu  Chi's  letter 
defending  himself  is  thorough  in  expressing  his  feeling  and  artful  in 
form.  Both  may  be  considered  good  specimens  of  the  ch'ien.  Ch'ien 
and  chi  are  related  to  the  piao,  or  the  memorial  expressing  gratitude, 
on  one  hand,  and  to  the  shu,  or  memorial  letter,  on  the  other.  They 
should  be  written  in  a  spirit  of  reverence  without  any  sign  of  fear, 
and  should  be  succinct  without  showing  any  arrogance,  pure  and 
graceful  in  unfolding  the  wealth  of  the  writer's  talents,  and  bright  and 
colorful  in  embodying  their  sounds  in  a  literary  form.  These  charac- 
teristics form  the  special  province  of  ch'ien  and  chi. 

15  See  Chapters  XXII  and  XXIII. 

16  The  prince's  mother  indulged  in  hunting.  Chang  Ch'ang  cited  good  examples  from 
the  past  to  warn  her  concerning  her  indulgence. 

17  Ts'ui  served  under  Liang  Chi.  The  letter  is  lost. 

18  Also  lost. 


148  Epistolary  Writing 

The  scope  of  shu-chi19  is  vast,  covering  a  number  of  forms.  Since 
days  of  old  there  have  been  many  terms  used  to  designate  various 
kinds  of  notes  and  records.  For  those  used  in  ruling  and  guiding  the 
people,  we  have:  p'u,  or  chronicle;  chi,  or  register;  pu,  or  warrant;  and 
lu,  or  record;  in  medicine,  chronology,  astrology,  and  divination,  we 
have:  fang,  or  prescription;  shu,  or  operation;  chan,  or  divination; 
and  shih,  or  formula;  in  proclaiming  laws  and  military  movement, 
we  have:  lii,  or  law;  ling,  or  order;  fa,  or  regulation;  and  chih,  or 
ordinance;  in  creating  confidence  in  trade  relations,  we  have:  fu, 
or  tally;  ch'i,  or  contract;  chiian,  or  bond;  and  shu,  or  sales  slip; 
in  government  requests  for  information,  we  have:  \uan,  or  credential; 
tz'u,  or  to  pierce;  chieh,  or  record  of  settlement;  and  tieh,  or  memo- 
randum; and  in  expressing  their  feelings,  the  people  use:  chuan,  or 
notice;  lieh,  or  narrative  account;  tzu,  or  viva  voce-,  and  yen,  or  prov- 
erb. All  these  give  utterance  to  the  reasons  formed  in  the  mind  and 
present  it  in  words.  Although  they  are  insignificant  as  literary  forms, 
they  precede  everything  else  in  importance  in  handling  government 
affairs. 

Fu,  or  chronicle,  means  literally  p'u,  or  comprehensive.  [This  form] 
presents  the  order  of  successive  generations;  it  is  comprehensive  in 
its  inclusion  of  all  events.  Cheng  Hsiian,  in  preparing  a  p'u  for  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry20  apparently  adopted  this  sense  of  the  term  for  his 
composition. 

Chi,  or  register,  means  literally  chieh,  or  to  borrow.  Every  year  the 
government  borrows  a  labor  force  from  the  people,  and  keeps  a  classi- 
fied census  on  a  wooden  slip.  During  the  Ch'un-ch'iu  period,  an  office 
was  established  in  charge  of  the  census  register,  an  instance  of  chi. 

Pu,  or  warrant,  means  literally,  p'u,  or  a  vegetable  garden;  the 
classified  collection  of  government  documents  is  similar  to  the  planned 
planting  of  grasses  and  trees  in  a  garden.21  Chang  T'ang  and  Li  Kuang 

19  This  expression  has  been  rendered  as  "epistolary  writing."  But  from  what  may  be 
gathered  from  this  last  section  of  the  chapter,  it  seems  to  have  a  broader  scope,  sug- 
gesting the  English  term  "memo."  This  is  another  case  of  the  loose  use  of  terms. 

20  The  work  is  known  as  Shih-p'u — a  chronicle  of  the  Boof^  of  Poetry. 

21  Apparently  pu  is  also  used  in  the  sense  of  a  file.  How  this  is  connected  with  the 
sense  of  warrants  is  not  clear. 


Epistolary  Writing  149 

were  both  served  by  the  officials  with  warrants,  the  function  of  which 
is  to  apprehend  the  fraudulent. 

Lu,  or  record,  means  literally  ling,  or  topic.  An  ancient  history  en- 
titled Shih-pen22  keeps  records  on  bamboo  slips,  with  titled  topics; 
hence  the  use  of  the  term  lu  in  regard  to  it. 

Fang,  or  prescription,  means  yii,  or  a  corner.  Each  medicinal  herb, 
in  healing,  has  its  particular  virtue,  particularly  effective  in  one  corner 
of  the  realm  of  medicine;  hence  the  medicinal  formula  is  known  as 
fang. 

Shu,  or  operation,  means  lu,  or  a  road.  When  we  have  applied 
number  to  the  calculation  of  the  calendar,  our  view  of  the  road  [or 
way]  will  then  become  clear.  The  Chiu-chang  [Nine  chapters  on  arith- 
metic] deals  with  calculus;  so  it  is  known  as  shu,  or  the  way  of  opera- 
tion. Wan-pi23  of  Huai-nan  [or  Prince  An  of  the  Han]  also  belongs 
to  this  group. 

Chan,  or  divination,  means  literally  chan,  or  to  spy  or  watch.  Some- 
times the  stars  are  observable  and  sometimes  not.  Only  by  waiting  and 
watching  is  one  able  to  see  them.  [Duke  Hsi  of  Lu]  ascended  the  ter- 
race and  had  the  astrological  changes  recorded.24  So  this  was  called 
chan,  or  to  divine. 

Shih,  or  formula,  means  literally  tse,  or  principle.  The  waxing 
and  waning  of  the  yin  and  the  yang  principles,  or  the  passing  away 
and  coming  into  being  of  the  five  elements,  though  they  appear 
to  be  changes  which  occur  without  any  regularity,  may  be  seen  to  be 
obeying  certain  principles  when  they  are  put  under  observation. 

Lu,  or  law,  or  pitch  pipe,  means  chung,  or  middle  or  norm.25  With 
the  establishment  of  huang-chung26  the  five  tones  are  set  correctly. 

22  Containing  the  records  of  rulers  and  great  ministers  from  the  time  of  the  Yellow 
Emperor  to  the  end  of  the  Ch'in,  together  with  their  posthumous  titles. 

23  A  work  dealing  with  the  calendar  and  arithmetic. 

24  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  94/Hsi  5/  Tso  supplement  I. 

25  A  pitch  pipe  is  a  bamboo  tube,  whose  length  determines  its  tone,  used  as  a  tuning 
fork.  There  are  twelve  pitch  pipes  of  various  lengths  so  adjusted  that  they  give  twelve 
semitones,  forming  a  chromatic  scale  of  twelve  notes,  starting  with  C.  Since  they  are 
used  for  tuning  the  other  instruments,  they  furnish  the  law  by  which  tones  arc  deter- 
mined. Hence  law  becomes  part  of  the  meaning  of  lit. 

26  The  first  note  on  the  chromatic  scale,  equivalent  to  C. 


150  Epistolary  Writing 

And  with  the  formulation  of  laws  for  governing  the  people,  the  eight 
kinds  of  punishments  may  be  justly  applied.  To  call  such  laws  lu  shows 
that  they  aim  at  the  golden  mean  or  the  norm. 

Ling,  or  order,  means  literally  ming,  or  mandate.  A  mandate  pro- 
claims certain  prohibitions,  as  if  on  the  authority  of  heavenly  origin. 
The  order  given  by  Kuan  Chung  prevailed  like  a  flowing  stream 
because  he  had  the  ability  to  get  the  people  to  obey  it  voluntarily. 

Fa,  or  regulation,  means  literally  hsiang,  or  sign  or  signal.  Military 
tactics  do  not  confine  themselves  to  following  a  prescribed  plan;  but 
whether  an  operation  is  going  to  be  a  surprise,  or  to  follow  orthodox 
procedure,  there  must  always  be  some  sign  [or  signal]  to  indicate  its 
course.  Hence  the  use  of  the  term  fa,  or  regulation  or  sign. 

Chih,  or  ordinance,  means  literally  ts'ai,  or  to  cut  or  tailor.  A  chih 
is  issued  by  the  superiors  to  prescribe  the  conduct  of  the  subordinates, 
in  the  same  manner  as  a  craftsman  manufactures  his  vessels. 

Fuy  or  tally,  means  literally  fu,  or  authenticity.  In  calling  and  sum- 
moning troops,  one  has  to  guard  against  false  orders;  so  the  command 
has  to  have  evidence  of  inner  authenticity.27  During  the  Three  Dynas- 
ties, jade  was  used  as  a  tally,  while  during  the  Han  times  metal  and 
bamboo  were  used.  In  later  times,  these  were  discarded,  and  written 
tallies  were  substituted  for  them. 

Ch'i,  or  contract,  means  chieh,  or  to  tie  a  knot.  Life  was  simple  in 
remote  antiquity,  and  knotted  cord  was  used  to  make  a  contract  bind- 
ing. The  way  modern  tribes  in  the  west  count  and  the  way  peddlers 
keep  records  of  their  money  are  reminiscent  of  this  practice. 

Chiian,  or  bond,  means  literally  shu,  or  to  bind  or  control,  that  is, 
to  state  binding  conditions  clearly  to  avoid  possible  fraud.  Because 
the  characters  on  a  chiian  are  cut  into  halves,  in  Chou  times  a  chiian 
was  known  as  halved  writing.28  In  ancient  times  there  was  also  an  iron 
bond,  to  strengthen  one's  credit.  The  bond  Wang  Pao  wrote  when  he 

27  "Inner  authenticity"  is  a  rendering  of  chung-ju,  the  sixty-first  hexagram  in  the 
Boo\  of  Changes. 

28  The  phrase  "p'an-shu"  occurs  in  "Hsiao-ssu-k'ou"  in  Chou-li  (Chou-li  yin-te, 
9/243).  According  to  a  commentator,  p'an-shu  means  halved  writing. 


Epistolary  Writing  151 

bought  the  bearded  slave  may  be  considered  a  humorous  pattern  of 
a  bond.29 

Shu,  or  sales  slip,  means  literally  pu,  or  to  spread  out,  in  the  sense 
of  spreading  out  sales  articles  and  itemizing  them  with  rough  de- 
scriptions. Hence  small  bonds  and  short  writings  are  known  as  shu. 

Kuan,  or  pass  or  credentials,  means  pi,  or  to  close.  People  enter  and 
go  out  through  a  gate,  and  one  must  be  careful  in  keeping  the  gate 
closed.  In  government  it  is  important  to  know  thoroughly  the  condi- 
tions promoting  smooth  working  or  bottlenecks  in  government  opera- 
tions. When  Han  Fei  asked,  "[Kung-]Sun  T'an-hui  was  a  virtuous 
minister,  so  why  was  he  confined  to  his  district?"  he  had  in  mind  this 
kind  of  carefulness.30 

Tz'u,  or  to  pierce,  means  literally  ta,  or  to  convey.  The  Ancient  Poet 
pierced  wrongdoing  by  means  of  satires;  and  in  the  Chou-li  we  find 
three  situations  in  which  tz'u  was  employed:31  When  a  narrative 
account  of  things  is  successfully  conveyed,  it  is  like  the  piercing  of  a 
stoppage  by  means  of  a  needle. 

Chieh,  or  to  untie,  or  a  record  of  settlement,  means  literally  shih,  or 
to  resolve,  that  is,  to  untie  and  resolve  [or  settle]  a  knotty  problem  by 
citing  facts  as  evidence.32 

Tieh,  or  memorandum,  means  literally  yeh,  or  a  leaf.  Short  bamboo 
slips  bound  into  tieh  are  like  leaves  on  the  branch.  [Lu]  Wen-shu  [of 
Han]  cut  the  leaves  of  rushes  [to  form  a  tieh  for  the  purpose  of  keeping 
records];  this  illustrates  what  is  meant  by  tieh.33  Before  a  decision  is 

29  When  Wang  Pao  stopped  at  the  house  of  a  widow,  a  slave  that  had  belonged  to  her 
dead  husband  refused  to  go  out  and  buy  wine  for  him.  Enraged,  Wang  suggested  that 
he  should  buy  the  man.  The  slave  said  that  he  would  not  do  anything  which  was  not 
explicitly  stated  in  the  bond.  So  Wang  drafted  the  bond,  describing  in  detail  the  man's 
duties,  which  included  all  forms  of  service  imaginable.  After  reading  the  bond,  the 
slave  kowtowed  and  apologized,  saying  that  he  would  rather  die  than  become  Wang's 
slave.  He  then  obediently  went  out  to  buy  wine  for  Wang.  See  Sun  Hsing-yen,  Hsu 
\u-wen-yuan,  chiian  20. 

30  See  Han-jei-tzu,  chiian  17,  Chapter  42,  p.  302. 

31  See  Chou-li,  "Ch'iu-kuan"  under  "Ssu-tz'u" — officials  in  charge  of  piercing.  The 
three  tz'u:  to  get  information  governing  high  ministers,  to  get  information  about  lower 
officials,  and  to  get  information  about  the  people.  See  Chou-li  yin-te,  9/ 14b,  26b. 

32  For  example,  a  record  of  settlement  of  a  quarrel  over  some  territorial  boundary. 

33  For  Lu  Wen-shu,  see  his  biography  in  Han-shu. 


152  Epistolary  Writing 

reached  in  government  planning,  short  tieh  are  kept  for  reference  and 
discussion.  So  a  more  detailed  tieh  is  known  as  a  ch'ien,  or  note. 
Ch'ien  literally  means  fine  or  detailed. 

Chuan,  or  notice,  including  obituary,  means  literally  mao,  or  de- 
scription, that  is,  to  describe  according  to  the  original  source  in  order 
to  establish  the  facts.  Memorials  suggesting  posthumous  titles  for 
men  of  virtue  of  previous  times  all  contain  obituaries  describing  the 
characters  of  these  men.  This  is  the  most  important  form  of  chuan. 

Lieh,  or  narrative  account,  means  literally  ch'en,  or  to  exhibit,  ex- 
hibiting true  situations  so  that  they  will  be  clearly  discernible. 

Tz'u,  or  viva  voce,  means  literally  word  of  mouth,  by  means  of 
which  one  conveys  his  ideas  to  others.  Tzu-ch'an  [of  the  state  of 
Cheng]  was  gifted  with  tz'u,  and  the  various  lords  profited  from  it. 
Indeed,  it  is  impossible  to  do  without  tz'u?* 

Yen,  or  proverb,  means  literally  a  straightforward  statement.  As 
condolences  are  also  unadorned,  they  too  are  known  as  yen.35  A  simple 
expression  of  the  market  place  is:  "Fruits  without  flowers."  Duke  Mu 
of  Tsou  made  the  statement:  "A  leaking  bag  still  holds  things."36  These 
are  examples  of  yen.  In  "T'ai-shih"  it  is  said,  "There  is  an  ancient  saying 
'A  hen  should  not  herald  the  approach  of  morning.'  "37  And  in  "Ta-ya" 
is  the  statement:  "People  used  to  say,  'Through  grief  I  grow  old.'"38 

34  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  335/Hsiang  31/6  Tso:  The  various  lords  came 
to  pay  respects  to  Chin,  and  were  quartered  in  humble  dwellings.  When  the  Duke  of 
Cheng  arrived,  he  was  not  given  an  audience.  Tzu-ch'an,  a  minister  of  Cheng,  through 
his  eloquence,  convinced  the  Chin  of  their  mistake  in  neglecting  their  duty  of  treating 
the  lords  properly.  As  a  result,  the  Chin  ordered  proper  quarters  built  to  house  the  visiting 
lords. 

35  Yen  meaning  proverb  and  yen  meaning  condolence  are  two  different  characters. 
Our  author  uses  only  one  character,  the  former  one,  for  both  meanings,  because  of  their 
phonetic  and  probably  semantic  link.  This  is  the  first  known  instance  where  the  word 
is  used  in  both  senses. 

36  Chia  I,  Hsin-shu,  "Ch'un-ch'iu  p'ien." 

37  This  statement  is  found  in  "Mu-shih,"  Chapter  22  in  the  Boo\  of  History,  and  not 
in  "T'ai-shih,"  which  is  Chapter  21.  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  22/0091-4. 

38  This  line  is  found  in  the  "Hsiao-ya"  section  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  in  poem  no. 
197,  entitled  "Hsiao  P'an,"  and  not  in  the  "Ta-ya"  section.  Furthermore,  the  first  part 
of  the  quotation,  "People  used  to  say,"  is  not  in  the  original  text.  Mao-shih  yin-te, 
46/197/2. 


Epistolary  Writing  153 

Both  these  are  proverbs  coming  down  to  us  from  antiquity,  quoted  in 
the  Classics. 

Then  Ch'en  Lin,  in  his  remonstration,  said,  "Catch  sparrows  blind- 
folded"; and  P'an  Yueh,  in  his  lamentation,  quoted,  "Like  pearls  on 
one's  palm,  intimate  as  husband  and  wife";  both  are  proverbs  employed 
in  literary  pieces.  If  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  and  the  Boo\  of  History,  which 
are  works  from  the  hands  of  the  sages,  quote  proverbs  which,  as  literary 
expressions,  are  the  most  vulgar  imaginable,  how  can  one  overlook 
these  writings  which  are  superior  to  the  proverbs? 

A  survey  of  these  types  of  letters  shows  that  they  all  may  be  sub- 
sumed under  the  general  category  of  the  Shu  and  the  Chi  [which  is 
the  title  of  this  chapter].  Some  which  deal  with  identical  subject  matter 
vary  in  their  literary  expressions:  some  emphasize  only  the  simple 
content,  while  others  also  employ  literary  embellishment.  The  form 
varies  with  the  type  of  material  under  treatment,  the  important  thing 
being  the  grasp  of  essentials.  Sometimes  for  the  lack  of  one  word  the 
meaning  is  left  incomplete,  and  sometimes  one  word  too  many  in  a 
sentence  renders  it  awkward:  these  pitfalls  should  receive  the  careful 
attention  of  those  in  charge,  and  yet  are  often  overlooked  by  those 
whose  interest  is  in  superficial  beauty  of  expression.  However,  superb 
talents  and  great  writers  often  neglect  the  art  of  letter  writing.  Such 
men  are  like  Chiu-fang  Yen,  whose  knowledge  of  a  steed  did  not  in- 
clude a  knowledge  of  its  color  or  sex.39  Words,  which  are  the  ornament 
of  a  man's  person,  are  also  an  auspicious  decoration  of  a  state.  Scholars 
in  the  "forest  of  brush"40  should  give  thought  to  the  form  and  structure 
of  this  genre. 

39  Hui-nan-tzu,  chiian  12,  "Tao-ying  hsiin,"  p.  198:  "Duke  Mu  of  Ch'in  .  .  .  sent  him 
[Chiu-fang  Yen]  in  search  of  a  steed.  He  returned  after  three  months  and  reported  that 
he  had  got  one,  and  it  was  in  Sha-ch'iu.  Duke  Mu  asked,  'What  kind  of  a  horse  is  it?' 
The  answer  was:  'A  male,  yellow  in  color.'  a  messenger  was  sent  to  fetch  it  and  found 
that  it  was  a  female  horse,  and  its  color  was  black.  Duke  Mu  was  displeased.  He  sent 
for  Po-lo  [the  most  famous  horse  expert  in  antiquity]  and  told  him,  'It  is  an  utter  failure! 
The  one  you  recommended  to  go  in  search  of  a  steed  does  not  even  know  the  animal's 
color  or  sex!  How  can  he  know  anything  about  a  horse?'  Po-lo  heaved  a  long  sigh  and 
said,  '.  .  .  What  Yen  was  impressed  by  was  the  inner  spirit.  He  grasped  the  subtle  factor 
and  neglected  the  vulgar  detail.'  " 

40  That  is,  the  literary  world. 


154  Epistolary  Writing 

The  Tsan: 

Literary  writing  develops  into  many  forms, 

Of  which  one  is  the  epistolary: 

It  appears  like  a  galloping  steed  caparisoned  in  gold, 

But  fulfills  its  function  through  simple  utterances. 

From  the  time  of  antiquity  its  sound  has  been  heard, 

And  it  brings  response  from  a  thousand  li  away. 

The  mass  of  entangled  affairs 

Becomes  comprehensive  through  their  being  recorded. 


XXVI.  Spiritual  Thought  or  Imagination  (Shenssu) 


An  Ancient  said,  "One  may  be  on  the  rivers  and  sea  in  body,  but  his 
mind  remains  at  the  palace  gate."1  This  is  what  I  mean  by  shenssu,  or 
spiritual  thought  or  imagination.  One  who  is  engaged  in  literary 
thought  travels  far  in  spirit.  Quietly  absorbed  in  contemplation,  his 
thinking  reaches  back  one  thousand  years;  and  with  only  the  slightest 
movement  of  his  countenance,  his  vision  penetrates  ten  thousand  li\ 
he  creates  the  music  of  pearls  and  jade  between  his  poetic  lines,  and 
he  witnesses  the  rolling  of  wind  and  clouds  right  before  his  brows  and 
lashes.  These  things  are  possible  because  of  the  work  of  the  imagination. 
Through  the  subtlety  of  the  imagination,  the  spirit  comes  into  con- 
tact with  external  things.  The  spirit  resides  in  the  mind,  and  the  key 
to  its  secret  is  controlled  by  both  the  feelings  and  the  vital  force. 
Physical  things  reach  our  minds  through  our  ears  and  eyes,  and  the 
key  to  their  apprehension  is  the  skilled  use  of  language.  When  the 
key  works  smoothly,  there  is  nothing  which  will  not  appear  in  its  true 

1  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  79/28/56.  In  its  original  context,  the  line  speaks  of  the  worldly 
ambition  of  a  man  who  is  in  retirement.  However,  Liu  Hsieh  ignores  this  implication  and 
is  concerned  only  with  the  amazing  power  of  thought  which  transports  one  to  places 
where  his  body  is  not. 


Spiritual  Thought  or  Imagination  155 

form;  but  when  its  operation  is  obstructed,  the  spirit  loses  its  rationale. 
For  this  reason,  vacancy  and  tranquility  are  important  in  the  develop- 
ment of  literary  thinking:  the  achievement  of  this  state  of  vacancy  and 
tranquility  entails  the  cleansing  of  the  five  viscera  and  the  purification 
of  the  spirit.  One  has  also  to  acquire  learning  in  order  to  maintain  a 
store  of  precious  information,  and  to  contemplate  the  nature  of  reason 
so  as  to  enrich  his  talents;  he  must  search  deeply  and  experience  widely 
in  order  that  he  may  exhaustively  evoke  the  source  of  light;  he  must 
master  literary  traditions  in  order  to  make  his  expressions  felicitous 
and  smooth.  It  is  only  then  that  he  commissions  the  "mysterious 
butcher"2  [who  dwells  within  him]  to  write  in  accord  with  musical 
patterns;  and  it  is  then  that  he  sets  the  incomparably  brilliant  "master 
wheelwright"3  [who  dwells  within  him]  to  wield  the  ax  in  harmony 
with  his  intuitive  insight.  This,  in  short,  is  the  first  step  in  the  art 
of  writing,  and  the  main  principle  employed  in  the  planning  of  a 
literary  piece. 

When  shen-ssu  [or  spiritual  thought]  is  in  operation,  all  possible 
vistas  open  up  before  it.  Rules  and  principles  become  mere  formalities 
and  there  is  not  the  least  trace  of  carving  or  engraving.4  When  one 
ascends  mountains  [in  such  an  inspired  state],  the  whole  mountain 
will  be  tinged  with  the  coloring  of  his  own  feelings;  and  when  his 
eyes  rove  over  the  seas,  the  seas  will  be  saturated  with  his  ideas.  He 
can  roam  as  companion  of  the  wind  and  the  clouds  according  to  the 
measure  of  his  talents.  At  the  moment  when  a  writer  first  picks  up  his 
pen,  and  before  anything  has  yet  been  written,  he  feels  as  if  his  creative 
vigor  were  doubled;  but  at  the  completion  of  the  piece,  he  usually 

2  Ibid.,  7-8/3/2-12.  The  "mysterious  butcher,"  in  his  cutting  of  a  bull,  exhibits  such 
profound  understanding  of  the  bull  that  his  knife  swims  between  the  joints  and  is  still 
as  sharp  as  if  newly  honed,  even  after  nineteen  years  of  service.  Although  Chuangtzu, 
a  Taoist,  was  theoretically  opposed  to  all  expressions,  literary  or  otherwise,  this  butcher 
has  become  the  symbol  of  the  highest  achievement  in  literary  creation.  He  is  one  who 
works  through  the  spirit  rather  than  through  the  senses. 

3  Ibid.,  36/13/68-74.  The  master  wheelwright  wields  his  ax  to  make  a  wheel  in  a 
manner  absolutely  unique,  and  hence  not  communicable.  He  is  another  example  of  the 
artistic  height  which  is  reached  not  by  effort  but  by  intuitive  insight. 

4  Referring  to  laborious  effort. 


156  Spiritual  Thought  or  Imagination 

has  succeeded  in  conveying  only  half  of  what  he  had  at  first  contem- 
plated. Why  is  this  so?  Because  one's  ideas  may  easily  be  extraordinary 
when  he  is  free  to  work  in  the  realm  of  fancy,  but  it  is  very  difficult 
for  one  to  give  beauty  to  his  language  when  he  is  tied  down  to  the 
factual  details.  Therefore,  although  the  idea  takes  shape  from  spiritual 
thinking,  and  the  language  receives  its  form  from  the  idea,  idea, 
thought,  and  language  may  be  so  closely  related  that  they  are  experi- 
enced as  one,  or  they  may  differ  as  strikingly  as  if  they  were  a  thousand 
li  from  each  other.  A  writer  may  go  beyond  the  world  in  search  of 
patterns  which  are  there  in  the  square  inch  of  his  heart,  and  sometimes 
his  thought  strays  over  mountain  and  river  for  ideas  which  are  only  a 
few  inches  or  feet  away.  So  be  vigilant  over  your  heart  and  cultivate 
the  intuitive  method;  there  is  little  need  of  onerous  mental  effort,  for 
one  who  is  endowed  with  natural  excellence  balanced  as  a  harmonious 
whole  has  no  need  to  strain  himself. 

Individuals  vary  with  respect  to  their  natural  talents;  some  are  slow 
and  some  are  quick.  And  when  they  express  themselves  in  literary 
forms,  they  also  excel  in  many  different  ways.  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju 
chewed  his  brush  to  bits,  Yang  Hsiung  had  nightmares  because  of  his 
inability  to  continue  writing,  Huang  T'an  fell  ill  because  of  onerous 
thinking,  Wang  Ch'ung  exhausted  his  vitality  in  his  intellectual  labors, 
Chang  Heng  took  ten  years  to  study  the  capitals  [for  his  fu],5  and 
Tso  Ssu  took  twelve  years  to  collect  material  for  the  writing  of  his 
fu  on  capitals.6  It  is  true  that  all  of  these  men's  works  are  of  immense 
magnitude,  but  they  are  all  the  result  of  thinking  which  is  slow  and 
laborious.  On  the  other  hand,  Prince  Huai-nan  [or  Liu  An]  completed 
his  fu  on  Encountering  Sorrow  before  the  morning  was  spent,  Mei 
Kao  had  his  piece  ready  as  soon  as  he  received  the  royal  commission, 
Tzu-chien  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  wrote  poetry  as  easily  as  if  he  were  reciting, 
Chung-hsuan  [or  Wang  Ts'an]  let  his  brush  fly  as  if  copying  from  a 

5  He  wrote  one  fu  on  the  western  capital  and  one  on  the  eastern  capital.  See  Wen- 
hsuan,  chiian  2  and  3. 

6  He  has  three  fu  on  the  capitals  of  the  three  kingdoms  known  collectively  as  "San- 
tu-fu":  Shu,  Wu,  and  Wei.  See  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  4  and  5. 


Spiritual  Thought  or  Imagination  157 

ready-made  draft,  Juan  Yii  penned  a  letter  on  the  saddle,  and  Ni  Heng 
produced  memorials  while  at  meals.  These  pieces,  all  brief  and  terse, 
are  all  works  of  quick  thinking. 

A  spirited  scholar,  with  the  essentials  of  the  art  of  writing  in  his 
mind,  is  quick  to  meet  situations  with  an  instantaneous  response  even 
before  he  has  time  for  consideration;  while  a  man  of  profound  thought, 
whose  emotional  reactions  are  complicated  and  who  is  ever  aware  of 
all  possible  alternatives,  achieves  light  and  maps  plans  only  after 
prolonged  questioning  and  inquiring.  A  man  whose  mechanism  of 
response  is  quick  does  his  work  in  a  hurry;  but  it  takes  a  long  time 
for  a  man  of  deliberation  to  show  his  accomplishments.  Though  these 
two  groups  of  people  differ  in  their  ways  of  writing,  one  group  writing 
with  ease  and  the  other  with  great  labor,  both  types  must  be  men  of 
comprehensive  learning  and  broad  experience.  The  mind  which  is  only 
laborious  without  the  support  of  learning  resembles  the  empty  quick- 
witted mind  devoid  of  talent  in  that  neither  has  ever  been  known  to 
accomplish  anything.  There  are  two  dangers  besetting  the  man  who 
stops  to  ponder  while  writing:  if  he  is  not  clear  about  principles,  his 
work  will  seem  diffuse  and  insubstantial;  but  if  he  is  prolix,  his  work 
will  suffer  from  confusion.  Comprehensive  learning  and  broad  ex- 
perience are  the  only  foods  that  will  nourish  writing  afflicted  with 
poverty  of  substance,  and  coherence  and  unity  are  the  only  medicines 
which  will  cure  confusion.  To  be  coherent  and  unified  as  well  as  com- 
prehensive is  also  one  way  to  reduce  mental  effort. 

As  emotional  situations  vary  in  complexity,  literary  forms  vary  with 
them.  Unpolished  expressions  may  make  brilliant  ideas  concrete,  and 
from  commonplace  things  may  be  coaxed  new  revelations.  Compare 
the  finished  cloth  with  the  hempen  thread.  Although  the  cloth  is  the 
same  in  substance  as  the  hemp,  the  added  processes  of  weaving  and 
spinning  have  given  the  cloth  beauty  and  made  it  precious.  But  the 
subtle  meanings  beyond  our  thought  and  the  profound  inner  workings 
of  the  heart  inexpressible  in  words  are  not  to  be  reached  by  language; 
here  one  should  know  enough  to  halt  his  brush.  Only  the  most  subtle 


158  Spiritual  Thought  or  Imagination 

soul  understands  their  secret,  and  only  the  most  spiritual  mind  compre- 
hends their  number.  The  [master  chef]  I  Chih  was  unable  to  tell  people 
how  he  cooked,7  and  wheelwright  Pien  could  not  inform  people  how 
he  wielded  his  ax.8  [Great  art]  is  infinitely  subtle. 

The  Tsan: 
Under   the  operation   of  the   spirit   the  phenomenal   world   becomes 

articulate, 
But  does  so  responsive  to  varying  emotional  situations. 
Things  are  apprehended  by  means  of  their  appearances, 
And  the  mind  responds  by  the  application  of  reason. 
It  carves  and  engraves  in  accordance  with  sound  patterns, 
Forging  metaphors  and  allegories  as  it  goes. 
It  gathers  together  all  its  ideas  and  works  them  into  harmony, 
And  [like  General  Chang  Liang]  wins  victory  afar  while  sitting  in  its 

tent.9 


XXVII.  Style  and  Nature  (T'i-hsing) 


When  the  emotions  are  moved,  they  express  themselves  in  words;  and 
when  reason  is  born,  it  emerges  in  a  pattern.  For  we  start  with  the 
imperceptible  and  follow  through  to  the  revealed,  and  on  the  basis 
of  inner  realities  seek  external  realities  in  harmony  with  them.  How- 
ever, people  differ  in  talent,  in  physical  vitality,  in  scholarship,  and  in 
manner:  in  talent  some  are  mediocre  and  some  brilliant;  in  physical 

7  Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.,  Shanghai,  1935),  chiian  14,  pp.  140-41. 
"I  Chih"  is  another  name  for  I  Yin,  who,  in  answer  to  T'ang's  question,  says,  ".  .  .  The 
changes  which  take  place  in  a  cauldron  are  subtle  and  delicate,  neither  expressible  in 
words  by  the  mouth  nor  conceivable  by  the  mind." 

8  See  note  3  above. 

9  It  was  said  of  Chang  Liang  of  the  Han  that,  although  remaining  in  his  army  tent 
when  he  mapped  out  his  campaign  strategy,  he  won  victories  one  thousand  It  away.  See 
his  biography  in  the  Han-shu.  The  parallel  position  of  the  mind  or  the  spirit  is  hinted 
at  here. 


Style  and  Nature  159 

vitality  some  are  strong  and  some  weak;  in  scholarship  some  are  super- 
ficial and  some  profound;  in  manner  some  are  graceful  and  some 
vulgar.  All  these  are  partly  the  outcome  of  temperament  and  nature, 
and  partly  the  result  of  a  process  of  training.  For  this  reason,  we  find 
in  the  domain  of  the  brush  forest  various  grotesque  forms  taking  shape 
like  rolling  clouds;  and  in  the  garden  of  literature  different  activities 
burgeon  forth  as  waves  surge  upon  waves.  Thus,  in  the  use  of  lan- 
guage and  in  the  grasp  of  content,  a  man  is  destined  to  be  either 
mediocre  or  brilliant,  and  no  one  can  make  him  what  is  contrary  to 
his  talent;  in  temper  and  disposition,  he  is  destined  to  be  either  vital 
or  spiritless,  and  no  one  can  change  the  degree  of  his  physical  vitality; 
in  his  reactions  to  things  and  grasp  of  meanings,  he  is  destined  to  be 
either  superficial  or  profound,  and  no  one  has  ever  heard  of  achieve- 
ment out  of  proportion  to  a  man's  scholarship;  and  in  style  and  form, 
he  is  destined  to  be  either  graceful  or  vulgar,  and  few  can  be  what 
is  contrary  to  their  training.  Each  follows  the  way  he  cherishes  in  his 
heart,  and  people's  hearts  differ  as  much  as  their  faces.  All  in  all,  we 
may  enumerate  eight  different  styles:  first,  elegant  and  graceful,  or  in 
the  style  of  tien  and  ya;1  second,  far-ranging  and  profound;  third, 
polished  and  concise;  fourth,  lucid  and  logical;  fifth,  profuse  and 
flowery;  sixth,  vigorous  and  beautiful;  seventh,  fresh  and  extraordinary; 
and  eighth,  light  and  trivial. 

The  style  which  is  defined  as  elegant  and  graceful  models  itself 
after  the  classical  forms  and  adopts  the  Confucian  principles;  the  far- 
ranging  and  profound  couches  its  content  in  cryptic  phrases  and  obscure 
expressions,  treating  of  truths  deep-seated  in  the  nature  of  things;  the 
polished  and  concise  has  mastered  the  problems  of  diction  and  sen- 
tence structure,  analyzing  them  down  to  the  minutest  details;  the  lucid 
and  logical  employs  straightforward  language  to  express  clear  ideas 
with  reasoning  so  pertinent  that  it  satisfies  our  minds;  the  profuse  and 
flowery  indulges  in  creating  beautiful  patterns  through  a  wealth  of 
metaphors,  aiming  at  brightening  and  illuminating  all  branches  and 

1  That  is,  the  style  of  the  Boo\  of  History  and  the  Book,  of  Poetry. 


160  Style  and  Nature 

ramifications  of  its  subject;  the  vigorous  and  beautiful  distinguishes 
itself  by  eloquent  discourse  and  grand  composition  glowing  with 
remarkable  colors;  the  fresh  and  extraordinary  shuns  the  hackneyed 
and  competes  for  success  in  the  vogue  of  the  moment,  devoting  itself 
to  the  unconsidered,  the  biased,  the  diverting  and  the  strange;  and  the 
light  and  trivial  is  characterized  by  its  frivolous  language  weakly  or- 
ganized, following  the  lead  of  the  vulgar,  without  any  strength  of 
its  own.  As  we  see,  the  graceful  contrasts  with  the  extraordinary,  the 
profound  differs  from  the  lucid,  the  profuse  conflicts  with  the  concise, 
and  the  vigorous  clashes  with  the  light.  When  we  understand  these 
styles,  we  can  make  the  plant  of  literary  composition  grow,  roots,  leaves, 
and  all,  in  the  garden  of  literature. 

Since  the  eight  styles  are  constantly  interchanged,2  success  depends 
on  scholarship.  Talent  resides  within,  and  is  born  of  the  physical 
vitality  of  the  blood.  This  physical  [and  hence  temperamental]  vitality 
gives  substance  to  our  feeling  and  ideas,  and  these  determine  the  form 
language  will  take.  The  beauty  one  imparts  to  his  language  depends, 
therefore,  entirely  on  his  temperament  and  nature.  The  sharp  and 
quick-witted  Chia  I  produced  literary  pieces  with  a  clean  and  pure 
style;  Ch'ang-ch'ing  [or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju],  proud  and  eccentric,  over- 
burdened his  works  with  exaggerated  reasoning  and  excessive  wordi- 
ness; the  writings  of  Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung]  are  abstruse,  al- 
though giving  the  reader  a  taste  which  lingers,  because  of  his  retiring 
and  reticent  nature;  Tzu-cheng  [or  Liu  Hsiang]  was  clear  in  his  ideas 
and  exhaustive  in  his  treatments  of  facts,  because  he  was  unassuming 
and  simple;  Meng-chien  [or  Pan  Ku],  a  man  of  grace  and  excellence, 
was  careful  in  composition  and  resourceful  in  thought;  P'ing-tzu  [or 
Chang  Heng],  widely  learned,  was  thorough  in  investigation,  and  well- 
organized  as  well  as  colorful  in  expression;  Chung-hsiian  [or  Wang 
Ts'an],  hasty  and  spirited,  exhibited  outstanding  works,  indicating 
a  fruitful  talent;  Kung-kan  [or  Liu  Chen],  narrow-minded  and  biased, 

2  This  seems  to  refer  to  the  possible  changing  from  one  style  to  another  by  an 
individual. 


Style  and  Nature  161 

used  strong  language  and  showed  startling  emotion;  as  to  Ssu-tsung 
[or  Juan  Chi],  who  was  easy  and  free,  he  sang  in  the  spirit  of  a  recluse 
a  tune  wafted  into  the  distance;  Shu-ya  [or  Hsi  K'ang],  romantic  and 
gallant,  gave  us  high  spirit  and  bright  colors;  An-jen  [or  P'an  Yueh], 
light  and  swift,  was  poignant  in  his  remarks  but  rhythmic  in  prosody; 
and  Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi],  reverent  and  decorous,  couched  his  [more] 
exuberant  feelings  in  obscure  expressions.  From  these  examples,  we 
draw  the  clear  inference  that  the  outer  and  the  inner  realities  always 
correspond.  Is  this  not  the  general  principle  which  we  constantly  find 
exemplified  in  nature  as  well  as  in  the  realm  of  talent  and  vitality? 

Talent  is  bestowed  by  heaven,  but  in  learning  one  must  be  very 
careful  in  choosing  the  first  step  in  the  course  of  his  training.  It  is  like 
carving  or  dyeing,  in  which  the  success  depends  on  the  first  step  of 
the  process.  When  a  vessel  has  been  made,  or  a  color  printed,  it  is 
difficult  to  change.  So  when  a  child  learns  how  to  carve,  he  should 
first  learn  the  graceful  way.  From  mastery  of  this  root  he  may  proceed 
to  acquire  the  leaves;  and  in  this  way  his  thought  will  be  perfectly 
comprehensive  in  itself.  Although  the  eight  styles  are  all  different,  there 
is  a  common  denominator,  and  once  this  denominator  is  understood, 
the  writer  will  have  in  his  grasp  the  center  of  the  circle,  and  all  radii 
will  meet  at  this  center  like  spokes  gathering  at  a  hub.  So  it  is  im- 
portant that  a  man  imitate  one  certain  style  to  initiate  his  training 
process  and  continue  to  develop  his  talent  in  a  way  which  conforms 
to  his  nature.  This  is  the  principle  to  be  used  as  a  guide  in  literary 
composition. 

The  Tsan: 
There  is  a  great  variety  of  talents  and  natures,  and  a  great  variety  of 

literary  styles. 
Verbal  expressions  are  the  musculature  and  integument, 
But  feelings  and  ideas  are  the  bone  and  marrow. 
There  are  forms  which  are  graceful  and  beautiful  like  silk  broideries; 


162  Style  and  Nature 

And  there  are  forms  which  are  the  result  of  laborious  artifice,  but 

[only  succeed  in  turning  the  vermilion  into  the  vulgar]  purple.3 
By  training  a  writer  may  achieve  a  result  as  true  as  [nature  itself], 
And  this  kind  of  beauty  is  reached  by  a  gradual  process  of  labor. 


XXVIII.  The  Wind  and  the  Bone  (Teng-\u) 


The  Boo\  of  Poetry  contains  six  elements,  and  of  these  feng,  or  wind, 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  list.  It  is  the  source  of  transformation,  and 
the  correlate  of  emotion  and  vitality.  He  who  would  express  mournful 
emotions  must  begin  with  the  wind,  and  to  organize  his  linguistic 
elements  he  must  above  all  emphasize  the  bone.  Literary  expressions 
are  conditioned  by  the  bone  in  much  the  same  way  as  the  standing 
posture  of  a  body  is  conditioned  by  its  skeleton;  feeling  gives  form  to 
the  wind  very  much  as  a  physical  form  envelops  the  vitality  which 
animates  it.  When  expressions  are  organized  on  the  right  principles, 
literary  bone  is  there;  and  when  the  emotion  and  vitality  embodied 
are  swift  and  free,  there  we  find  the  purity  of  the  literary  wind.  If  a 
literary  piece  has  nothing  but  rich  and  brilliant  colors,  without  wind 
and  bone  to  keep  it  air-borne,  then  one  shaking  is  enough  to  destroy 
its  splendor,  lacking  as  it  does  the  vigor  which  can  justify  fame.  There- 
fore, a  condition  for  organizing  one's  thought  and  planning  one's 
composition  is  to  develop  to  the  full  one's  vitality;  for  when  one  is 
strong  and  whole,  he  will  shine  with  fresh  brilliance.  The  concept  here 
applied  to  literary  composition  is  enriched  by  comparison  with  our 
observation  of  the  use  of  wings  by  a  bird  of  prey.  He  whose  bone 
structure  is  well  exercised  will  always  be  versed  in  rhetoric;  and  he 
who  is  deep  of  wind  will  always  be  articulate  in  expressing  his  feel- 
ings. To  be  firm  and  exact  in  diction,  and  in  resonance  sure  without 

3  See  note  19,  Chapter  IV. 


The  Wind  and  the  Bone  163 

being  heavy:  this  is  what  is  meant  by  vigor  of  wind  and  bone.  Now 
to  be  thin  in  ideas  and  fat  in  words,  or  confused  and  disorganized, 
without  unity,  are  sure  signs  of  lack  of  this  kind  of  bone.  And  when 
ideas  are  incomplete  and  incomprehensive,  lifeless  and  without  vitality, 
it  is  an  evidence  of  the  absence  of  the  wind.  Long  ago,  when  P'an  Hsu 
wrote  his  edict  conferring  the  nine  honors  on  Prince  Wei,1  he  pat- 
terned his  thought  after  the  Classics.  All  other  talents,  on  seeing  his 
work,  hid  their  brushes,  because  his  had  this  vigor  of  bone  and  marrow. 
The  fu  on  the  immortals  by  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju2  exhibited  a  vitality 
which  soared  to  the  clouds.  He  was  proclaimed  poet  laureate  because 
his  work  possessed  such  powerful  strength  of  wind.  If  one  has  the 
ability  to  see  the  essentials  illustrated  in  these  cases,  he  may  be  able  to 
succeed  in  his  literary  pursuits.  But  no  amount  of  embellishment  will 
do  him  any  good,  if  he  fails  to  follow  these  essential  principles. 

It  was  for  this  reason  that  Wei-wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  said,  "Vitality  is 
the  main  factor  in  writing.  The  substance  of  this  vitality  is  either 
clear  or  turbid,  and  its  states  cannot  be  achieved  by  effort."3  In  dealing 
with  K'ung  Yung,  he  said,  "The  substance  of  his  vitality  is  lofty  and 
exquisite";  in  the  case  of  Hsu  Kan,  he  said,  "Occasionally  Hsu  exhibits 
the  [rather  low]  vitality  which  is  known  to  characterize  the  district  of 
Ch'i";4  and  in  the  case  of  Liu  Chen,  he  said,  "He  possesses  transcendent 
vitality."  Kung  Kan  [or  Liu  Chen]  also  remarked,  "Master  K'ung's 
style  is  lofty  and  stately,  definitely  possessing  extraordinary  vitality,  a 
vitality  not  expressible  in  brush  and  ink."5  These  writers  laid  a  common 
emphasis  on  vitality. 

A  pheasant,  with  all  its  colorful  feathers,  is  limited  in  its  scope  of 
flight  to  a  hundred  paces,  because  it  is  fat-fleshed  and  has  little  or  no 

1  See  note  22,  Chapter  XIX. 

2  Referring  to  his  "Ta-jen  fu,"  which  was  presented  to  the  emperor.  The  emperor 
was  so  enthralled  that  he  felt  he  was  floating  upon  clouds,  making  an  excursion  through 
the  universe.  See  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju's  biography  in  the  Han-shu. 

3  This  and  the  following  statements  are  found  in  Wei-wen's  "Essay  on  Literature." 
See  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  52. 

4  Li  Shang,  the  commentator  of  Wen-hsiian,  said  that  the  district  of  Ch'i  was  known 
for  a  slow  style  in  writing.  Ibid.,  chiian  52. 

5  Kung  Kan's  essay  is  lost. 


164  The  Wind  and  the  Bone 

vigor.  An  eagle  may  not  have  beautiful  plumage  patterns,  but  its  wings 
carry  it  high  in  the  sky,  because  of  its  strong  bone  structure  and 
mighty  vitality.  Strength  of  literary  talent  is  comparable  to  these  cases. 
If  we  had  the  wind  and  the  bone  without  colors,  we  would  have  a 
group  of  eagles  in  the  forest  of  literature;  but  if  we  had  colors  without 
the  wind  and  the  bone,  we  would  have  a  crowd  of  pheasants  jumping 
about  in  a  garden  of  letters.  Only  when  a  literary  piece  has  both  beau- 
tiful colors  and  the  ability  to  soar  high  do  we  have  a  singing  phoenix 
in  the  world  of  literature. 

When  a  writer  casts  and  molds  his  works  after  the  patterns  of  the 
Classics,  soars  and  alights  in  the  manner  in  which  philosophers  and 
historians  have  soared  and  alighted,6  and  is  equipped  with  a  profound 
knowledge  of  the  ever-changing  emotions  and  the  ability  to  display 
with  a  delicate  touch  styles  suitable  to  them,  he  will  be  able  to  conceive 
new  ideas  and  carve  extraordinary  expressions.  For  the  writer  who 
knows  what  style  is  fitting  will  be  able  to  form  new  ideas  without  in- 
troducing confusion;  and  he  who  knows  the  ever-varying  emotions  will 
be  able  to  adopt  extraordinary  expressions  without  ever  overdoing  it. 
But  if  before  the  bone  and  the  emotional  patterns  are  full-grown,  or 
if  before  the  wind  and  the  rhetoric  have  been  sufficiently  cultivated,  a 
writer  should  pass  over  the  old  rules  and  run  after  new  creations,  he 
would  more  often  than  not  meet  with  failure,  although  he  might  oc- 
casionally come  up  with  some  clever  ideas.  For  a  piece  which  is  con- 
structed of  mere  extraordinary  phrases  is  a  mistake,  and  how  can  one 
consider  it  a  constant  principle?  The  Boo\  of  Chou  says,  "In  writing 
one  should  emphasize  the  essential  and  should  not  indulge  in  the  ex- 
traordinary."7 The  purpose  of  this  statement  is  to  prevent  excessive 
literary  embellishment.  But  the  art  of  writing  has  many  avenues,  and 
each  scholar  may  choose  what  delights  him.  However,  because  those 
who  know  do  not  instruct  and  those  who  really  study  have  no  teachers,8 

6  Philosophical  works  and  histories  have  always  been  held  as  examples  of  good 
literary  style.  See  Chapters  XVI  and  XVII  above. 

7  See  note  19,  Chapter  II. 

8  The  art  of  writing  is  to  be  grasped  intuitively  and  not  discursively. 


Flexible  Adaptability  165 

one  may  become  accustomed  to  the  flowery  and  pursue  the  excessively 
ornamental,  drifting  along  aimlessly,  forgetting  to  return.  But  if  one 
will  make  sure  that  his  form  is  correct  and  that  he  has  a  clear  and 
vigorous  style,  he  will  possess  pure  wind  and  strong  bone,  and  his 
whole  work  will  gleam  with  brilliance.  If  one  pays  attention  to  these 
considerations,  why  should  the  art  be  beyond  his  reach? 

The  Tsan: 
Emotion  and  vitality  are  one, 
And  so  are  rhetoric  and  style. 
If  one's  language  is  clear  and  vigorous, 
He  will  be  showered  with  the  honors  of  a  jade  tablet. 
So  cultivate  the  vigor  of  the  wind, 
And  make  the  bone  more  robust; 
When  talent  stands  out  sharply  in  all  its  ruggedness, 
It  may  then  be  clothed  in  colors  that  glow  and  gleam. 


XXIX.  Flexible  Adaptability  to  Varying  Situations 
(Tung-pien) 


The  genres  to  which  literary  compositions  may  belong  are  definite;  an 
individual  composition  is  permitted  stylistic  flexibility.  How  do  we 
know  this  is  so?  Because  in  the  case  of  genres,  like  shih,  or  poetry;  fu, 
or  poetic  narrative;  shu,  or  epistolary  writing;  and  chi,  or  memoir, 
their  names  and  content  correspond;  therefore,  they  are  definite.  But 
as  for  literary  expressions  and  vital  force,  they  must  adapt  themselves 
to  varying  situations  in  order  to  endure;  therefore,  they  are  flexible. 
The  genres,  because  of  the  definite  correspondence  between  their  names 
and  content,  have  to  base  themselves  on  established  principles;  but 
because  the  style  must  maintain  its  flexible  adaptability  to  varying  situ- 
ations, its  very  essence  is  its  sensitivity  to  new  modes  and  cadences. 


1 66  Flexible  Adaptability 

I 

Only  by  observing  this  truth  can  a  writer  gallop  on  a  road  that  does 

not  end  in  an  impasse,  or  drink  out  of  a  spring  which  is  inexhaustible. 
When  one  has  to  endure  his  thirst  because  the  well  rope  is  too  short, 
or  give  up  the  road  because  his  legs  are  tired,  it  is  not  because  he  has 
exhausted  the  applicability  of  literary  principles,  but  because  he  is  inex- 
perienced in  the  art  of  flexible  adaptability.  Literature  may  be  looked  at 


i 


as  very  much  like  grasses  and  plants :  their  roots  and  trunks,  which  are 
attached  to  the  soil,  are  all  of  the  same  nature;  their  smells  and  tastes, 
which  are  exposed  to  the  sun,  differ  from  individual  to  individual.1 

In  the  lyrics  and  songs  of  the  nine  dynasties,2  we  find  that  feeling 
tone  and  literary  pattern  agree  with  each  other  in  each  one.  The  "Tuan- 
chu"  of  the  period  of  the  Yellow  Emperor  is  an  example  of  emphasis 
on  extreme  simplicity;3  the  "Tsai-hsi"4  of  the  T'ang  then  developed 
beyond  it.  The  "Ch'ing-yiin"  of  the  Yii  is  more  richly  embellished  than 
that  of  the  T'ang,  and  the  "Tiao-ch'iang"  of  the  Hsia  is  even  more 
lavishly  ornamented  than  that  of  the  Yii.  When  we  come  to  the  Shang 
and  the  Chou,  we  find  their  poetry  vastly  more  beautiful  than  that  of 
the  Hsia.  But  they  all  agree  in  being  the  expressions  of  genuine  feel- 
ing and  the  narratives  of  their  times.  During  the  Ch'u  period,  sao  was 
produced  on  the  pattern  of  the  Chou  poems;  and  the  fu  and  sung  of 
Han  times  reflect  the  forms  of  the  Ch'u  songs.  Wei's  poetic  composition 
defers  to  the  style  of  the  Han  in  a  spirit  of  admiration,  and  Chin's 
literary  writings  pattern  themselves  after  the  colorful  works  of  the 
Wei.  A  careful  analysis  will  show  that  the  literary  productions  during 

1  Attachment  to  the  soil  refers  to  the  definite  correspondence  between  the  name  and 
content  of  a  genre,  and  the  exposure  to  the  sun  refers  to  adaptability  to  varying  situations. 

2  Two  lists  of  dynasties  follow.  The  first  list  contains:  Yellow  Emperor  period,  T'ang, 
Yii,  Hsia,  Shang,  Chou,  Ch'u,  Han,  Wei,  and  Chin,  ten  in  all.  The  second  list  contains, 
in  addition  to  these,  Sung — a  total  of  eleven.  As  Liu  Hsieh's  work  was  completed  in 
Ch'i,  the  dynasty  which  followed  the  Sung,  the  latter  should  be  included.  It  seems  that 
the  period  of  the  Yellow  Emperor  and  that  of  Ch'u  should  both  be  eliminated:  the 
Yellow  Emperor  period,  because  it  was  a  predynastic  time,  and  Ch'u,  because  it  was  a 
part  of  the  Chou.  Without  these,  we  have  altogether  nine  dynasties. 

3  "Tuan-chu,"  a  folk  song,  consists  of  four  two-word  lines,  of  which  the  meaning  is 
not  clear.  It  runs:  "Bamboo  broken;  Bamboo  continued;  Dust  flying;  Chasing  meat." 
The  song  is  recorded  in  the  Wu-yiieh  ch'un-ch'iu,  by  Chao  Yeh  of  the  Han  dynasty. 

4  Not  identifiable. 


Flexible  Adaptability  167 

the  times  of  the  Yellow  Emperor  and  the  T'ang  are  pure  and  simple; 
during  the  Yu  and  Hsia,  simple  and  rational;  during  the  Shang  and 
Chou,  beautiful  and  graceful;  during  the  Ch'u  and  Han,  exaggerated 
and  alluringly  charming;  in  the  times  of  the  Wei  and  Chin,  superficial 
and  ornamental;  and  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sung,  pretentious  and 
novelty-ridden.  Declining  from  the  simple  to  the  pretentious,  literary 
taste  becomes  thinner  and  thinner  as  it  approaches  our  own  time.  The 
reason  for  this  is  found  in  the  fact  that  a  rivalry  in  producing  something 
new,  to  the  neglect  of  the  ancient  values,  has  lulled  the  wind  and  sapped 
vitality.  At  present,  most  of  the  outstanding  talented  scholars  who 
devote  themselves  to  literature  overlook  the  Han  pieces  and  emulate 
the  examples  of  the  Sung  period.  Even  if  they  have  read  all  the 
standard  literary  works  both  ancient  and  modern,  they  seem  to  attach 
themselves  to  the  recent  and  avoid  the  remote.  But  the  color  blue  is 
prepared  from  indigo  and  the  color  red  is  prepared  from  madder.  And 
although  blue  and  red  are  better  colors  than  their  sources,  they  are 
incapable  of  further  change.  Huan  Chiin-shan  [or  Huan  T'an]  said, 
"As  I  read  the  much  ornamented  works  of  recent  writers  I  feel  that 
they  may  be  beautiful,  but  I  attach  no  weight  to  them.  But  when  I 
read  works  by  Liu  [Hsin]5  and  Yang  [Hsiung],  I  often  profit  by 
them."  This  is  an  example  in  point.  If  one  wishes  to  refine  upon  the 
blue  and  purify  the  red,  one  must  return  to  the  indigo  and  the  madder 
and  begin  there;  just  so,  to  correct  pretentiousness  and  cure  super- 
ficiality, a  writer  must  come  back  to  the  Classics  and  begin  there.  Only 
when  a  writer  is  able  to  strike  a  middle  road  between  the  demands  of 
substance  and  of  form,  and  to  follow  the  right  principles  when  con- 
fronted with  a  choice  between  a  graceful  and  a  vulgar  expression,  is  he 
a  man  with  whom  we  can  discuss  the  problem  of  flexible  adaptability. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  Han  dynasty,  there  was  already  strenuous 
effort  to  perfect  the  descriptions  of  the  sounds  and  outward  appearances 
of  nature.  Later  writers  pursued  this  tendency.  Although  occasionally 
they  soared  beyond  the  old  course,  they  invariably  came  to  rest  in  the 

5  Liu  Hsiang's  son,  a  great  bibliophile  of  the  Han  dynasty.  He  died  in  A.D.  23. 


168  Flexible  Adaptability 

cage  of  the  traditional.  Mei  Sheng  in  his  "Ch'i-fa"  wrote,  "As  I  look  over 
the  Eastern  Sea,  I  see  unrolled  before  me  the  vast  space  merging  with 
the  blue  sky."  Then  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju  wrote  in  his  "Shang-lin  fu," 
"As  I  look  at  [the  plain],  there  is  no  beginning  to  it;  and  when  I 
investigate  it,  there  is  no  edge  to  it:  the  sun  rises  from  its  eastern  pool 
and  the  moon  emerges  on  its  western  slope."6  Ma  Yung7  wrote  in  his 
"Kuang-ch'eng  sung,"  "Heaven  and  earth  merge  into  one;  there  is 
no  beginning  and  no  edge;  from  the  east  rises  the  great  luminary  [the 
sun],  and  on  the  western  slope  is  born  the  moon."8  Yang  Hsiung  wrote 
in  his  "Chiao-lieh,"9  "Here  rise  and  set  the  sun  and  moon,  and  heaven 
and  earth  meet."  And  finally  Chang  Heng  wrote  in  his  "Hsi-ching  fu," 
"Just  here  the  sun  and  moon  rise  and  set,  the  symbols  of  ju-san  and 
meng-ssu."10  These  five  writers,  in  their  several  attempts  to  describe 
what  is  vast  and  unbounded,  seem  to  breathe  one  spirit.  There  are 
many  such  examples;  the  writers  always  try  to  emulate  one  another. 
And  to  know  which  elements  to  preserve  and  which  to  change,  in  a 
complicated  situation,  is  to  possess  flexible  adaptability. 

Therefore,  in  laying  down  principles  governing  literary  traditions, 
one  must  have  a  broad  view  of  the  literary  forms.  He  should  first 
broaden  his  experience  in  order  to  deepen  his  perception,  and  acquire 
a  synthetic  outlook  which  creates  harmony  among  all  the  literary 
precepts;  then  he  may  open  up  new  vistas  and  create  pivotal  points  of 
his  own.  [These  accomplishments  won],  he  will  be  in  a  position  to  keep 
his  art  under  harness,  controlling  it  as  if  from  a  distance,  and  progress 
at  his  leisure;  [these  accomplishments  won],  he  will  be  able  to  achieve 
an  artistic  harmony  perfectly  in  accord  with  his  temperament  and  sus- 
tain his  vitality,  adapting  it  to  varying  situations.  To  his  work  will 

6  The  line  here  differs  from  the  original,  which  says:  ".  .  .  the  moon  sets  down  the 
western  slope."  This  is  a  description  of  the  vastness  of  the  plain  on  which  the  author's 
eyes  feast. 

7  A  great  Han  commentator  of  the  Classics  (79-166). 

8  A  description  of  the  vastness  of  the  universe. 

9  The  original  title  is  "Yii-lieh  fu." 

10  A  description  of  the  vastness  of  the  universe.  Fu-san  is  the  mythical  tree  the  top  of 
which  the  sun  first  touches  in  its  course  from  the  eastern  sky;  and  meng-ssu,  the  mythical 
pool  into  which  it  sets. 


On  Choice  of  Style  169 

belong  the  colors  of  the  curving  ridge  of  a  rainbow  or  the  splendor 
of  the  spreading  wings  of  a  red  bird.11  Writings  of  this  quality  will  be, 
without  exception,  outstanding.  But  a  writer  who  confines  himself  to  a 
narrow  conception  of  his  art  and  feels  proud  of  his  one  limited  achieve- 
ment will  be  good  for  nothing  but  to  toddle  in  a  circle  in  a  court;  how 
could  such  a  man  be  expected  to  gallop  over  ten  thousand  li? 

The  Tsan: 

It  is  the  law  of  literature  both  to  move  along  and  to  come  to  full  circle; 

The  merit  of  literature  renews  itself  from  day  to  day. 

If  it  changes,  it  will  endure; 

If  it  adapts  itself  to  the  changing  tide,  it  will  lack  nothing. 

Success  will  be  his  who  follows  the  changing  times, 

And  he  will  have  no  need  of  fear  if  he  can  take  advantage  of  his  op- 
portunities. 

With  an  eye  on  present  circumstances,  create  what  is  extraordinary, 

And  establish  laws  by  reference  to  ancient  practice. 


XXX.  On  Choice  of  Style1 


One's  emotion  has  a  number  of  different  moods,  and  each  must  be 
expressed  in  a  particular  literary  style.  All  writers  choose  the  genres2 
which  accord  with  their  emotional  moods,  and  adopt  the  styles  proper 

11  For  the  curving  ridge  for  a  rainbow,  see  Chang  Heng's  "Hsi-ching  fu,"  and  for  the 
red  bird,  see  his  "Ssu-shiin  fu."  Both  are  found  in  the  Wen-shiian,  chiian  2  and  16 
respectively. 

1  The  term  shih,  which  is  here  rendered  as  "style,"  means  situation  or  condition,  as 
in  the  phrase  ti-shih,  the  topographical  condition  or  strategic  situation  of  a  place.  It  also 
means  bent  or  tendency,  as  in  the  phrase  shan-shih,  the  contour  or  tendency  of  a 
mountain.  Figuratively  it  means  power  on  account  of  position  or  situation.  As  used  in 
this  chapter,  it  means  the  tendency  of  a  rhetorical  flow,  the  spirit  or  style  of  a  literary 
piece. 

2  The  term  for  "genre"  is  ft,  which  means  body,  substance,  form,  or  genre  in  literary 
criticism.  It  is  also  used  to  mean  style.  This  shows  again  that  there  is  no  consistent  way  of 
rendering  Chinese  literary  terms.  Their  meaning  has  to  be  determined  in  context. 


170  On  Choice  of  Style 

to  these  genres.  By  style  is  meant  that  rhetorical  form  most  naturally 
suggested  by  a  specific  genre.  It  follows  just  as  naturally  as  the  straight 
course  of  an  arrow  shot  from  a  bow,  or  the  whirlpool  at  the  bend  of  a 
rapid  mountain  stream.  The  round  [heaven],  because  of  its  roundness, 
tends  naturally  to  rotate;  the  square  [earth],  because  of  its  squareness, 
tends  naturally  to  remain  at  rest.3  Literary  genre  and  style  likewise 
follow  natural  tendencies.  Those  who  pattern  their  writing  after  the 
classical  genre  will  achieve  the  excellent  qualities  of  severe  elegance 
and  grace;4  and  those  who  pattern  theirs  after  the  sao  genre  will 
succeed  in  capturing  the  flowers  of  charm  and  high-mindedness.  Super- 
ficial writings  are  as  a  rule  shallow  in  style,  and  those  which  are  clear-cut 
in  language  and  logical  and  simple  in  ideas  are  generally  devoid  of 
embellishment.  For  it  is  the  natural  tendency  [shih,  or  style]  of  rapid 
waters  not  to  be  rippled  and  of  withered  trees  not  to  give  shade. 

In  painting,  it  is  colors  which  present  the  infinite  possibilities  of 
form;  and  in  literature,  it  is  literary  phraseology  which  attempts  the 
adequate  expression  of  emotional  moods.  Different  mixtures  of  colors 
produce  the  forms  of  dogs  and  of  horses;  different  emotional  moods 
produce  the  different  styles,  of  which  some  are  graceful  and  some 
vulgar.  In  this  art  of  literary  casting,  each  piece  has  its  one  specific 
principle,  and  even  if  it  has  no  rigidly  defined  scope,  its  limits  should 
not  be  trespassed.  However,  those  who  would  be  well  versed  in  literary 
composition  must  comprehend  all  possible  styles.  For  although  the 
eccentric  and  the  orthodox  are  opposed  to  each  other,  both  should  be 
mastered;  and  although  the  vigorous  and  the  delicate  are  different, 
each  should  be  used  at  the  appropriate  moment.  If  one  loves  the  ele- 
gantly severe  and  dislikes  the  ornate,  he  will  be  one-sided  when  held 
up  against  the  standard  of  comprehensive  mastery.  We  are  reminded 
of  the  two  men  of  Hsia,  one  boasting  about  his  bow  and  another  about 
his  arrow,  [not  knowing  that]  with  neither  alone  would  it  be  possible 
to  shoot.  If  a  writer  allows  himself  to  include  both  the  graceful  and  the 

3  The  round  and  square  are  symbols  of  heaven  and  earth,  respectively. 

4  The  Boo\  of  History  is  characterized  by  severe  elegance  and  the  Boof{  of  Poetry  by 
grace. 


On  Choice  of  Style  171 

vulgar  in  the  same  literary  piece,  he  violates  the  principle  of  unity. 
This  is  like  the  man  of  Ch'u,  who,  while  praising  his  shield  [as 
impenetrable],  hawked  his  spear  [as  irresistible,  without  realizing  that] 
it  would  be  difficult  to  sell  both  [on  such  recommendations].5 

When  a  writer  encompasses  all  genres  within  his  scope,  he  must 
exercise  discriminating  judgment.  Whether  the  mode  of  \ung  or  the 
mode  of  shangQ  ought  to  be  used,  or  whether  the  color  red  or  the  color 
purple  should  be  applied,  depends  upon  the  circumstances. 

In  writing  the  chang,  or  memorial  expressing  thanks;  piao,  or  me- 
morial expressing  feeling;  tsou,  or  memorial  to  impeach;  and  i,  or 
memorial  to  discuss,7  one  should  aim  at  elegance  and  grace;  for  the 
writing  of  fu,  or  poetic  narrative;  sung,  or  ceremonial  ode;  \e,  or 
song;  and  shih,  or  poetry,8  purity  and  beauty  are  the  standard;  in  the 
case  of  the  fu,  or  tally;  hsi,  or  proclamation;  shu,  or  epistolary  writing; 
and  /,  or  despatch,9  correctness  of  style  demands  lucidity  and  clear-cut 
judgment;  in  the  case  of  the  shih,  or  historical  writing;  lun,  or  essay; 
hsu,  or  preface;  and  chu,  or  commentary,10  the  stylistic  features  worthy 
of  imitation  are  thoroughness  and  pertinence;  in  writing  the  chen,  or 
admonition;  ming,  or  inscription  on  articles;  pei,  or  inscription  on 
monuments;  and  lei,  or  elegy,11  one's  style  should  be  comprehensive 
and  deep;  and  finally,  in  writing  lien-chu,  or  continuous  string  of 
pearls,  and  ch'i-tz'u,  or  poetry  in  the  form  of  "seven,"12  one  should 
seek  artistry  and  charm  of  style.  In  all  these  cases,  one  chooses  a  style 
in  accord  with  a  genre,  adapting  his  style  to  the  particular  situation. 

5  For  the  men  of  Hsia  with  their  bow  and  arrow,  see  Yu-lan,  chiian  347;  and  for  the 
man  of  Ch'u  with  his  spear  and  shield,  see  Han-fei-tzu,  chiian  15,  Chapter  36,  "Nan-i," 
p.  265.  A  man  of  Hsia  said,  "My  bow  is  good,  so  I  need  no  arrow."  Another  said,  "My 
arrow  is  good,  so  I  do  not  need  a  bow."  The  man  of  Ch'u  was  selling  a  shield  and  a 
spear.  He  first  praised  his  shield:  "My  shield  is  so  strong  that  nothing  can  pierce  it." 
Then  he  praised  his  spear:  "My  spear  is  so  sharp  that  it  pierces  anything." 

6  For  the  five  whole-tone  scale,  of  which  k.ung  and  shang  are  two  tones,  see  note  2, 
Chapter  VII.  Each  of  these  tones  may  be  used  as  a  primary  note,  giving  thus  five  modes. 

7  See  Chapter  XXII.  8  See  Chapters  VI,  VII,  VIII,  and  IX. 
9  See  Chapters  XX,  XXIV,  and  XXV.             10  See  Chapters  VIII,  XVI,  and  XVIII. 

11  See  Chapters  XI  and  XII. 

12  For  lien-chu  see  note  4,  Chapter  XIV;  and  for  ch'i-tz'u,  see  note  2,  on  ch'i-ja 
(seven  shots),  in  the  same  chapter. 


172  On  Choice  of  Style 

Although  there  may  be  an  occasional  blending  of  styles,  creating  a 
tapestry  of  diverse  literary  passages  similar  to  a  variegated  brocade, 
such  a  "brocade"  must  of  necessity  have  one  fundamental  color,  the 
color  of  the  basic  fabric. 

Huan  T'an  once  said,  "Writers  have  each  his  own  love.  Some  love 
what  is  apparently  dazzling,  not  knowing  the  value  of  what  is  solid 
and  veritable;  some  love  a  great  quantity  of  information,  blind  to  the 
importance  of  what  is  essential  and  simple."  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih] 
also  said,  "Among  contemporary  writers,  some  love  verbosity  and 
erudition,  keeping  their  meaning  deep  and  obscure;  some  love  to 
analyze  their  terms  and  sentence  structure  into  clear-cut  distinctions 
to  the  point  of  hairsplitting.  The  difference  in  their  taste  is  a  natural 
consequence  of  the  difference  in  their  training."  In  other  words,  they 
differ  in  their  natural  bents  or  styles. 

Liu  Chen  once  said,  "The  essence  of  literature  may  be  expressed 
in  a  variety  of  styles:  the  romantic,  the  realistic,  the  vigorous,  and  the 
delicate.  Among  all  the  contemporary  writers  there  is  only  one  of  whose 
writing  it  may  be  said  that  even  when  he  has  said  all  there  is  to  be  said, 
his  style  is  still  unspent."13  Kung-kan  [or  Liu  Chen]  here  uses  the 
word  [shih  or  style]  also  in  the  sense  of  ch'i,  or  vitality  or  force.  The 
force  by  which  a  literary  piece  is  carried  along  may  be  either  vigorous 
or  weak,  and  used  in  this  sense  force  need  not  necessarily  mean  only 
vigorous  expression  and  heroic  mood.  Lu  Yiin  said  that,  before  he 
heard  the  literary  opinion  of  Master  Chang,  he  himself  tended  in  his 
literary  judgments  to  emphasize  expressions  rather  than  feeling,  and 
to  pay  more  attention  to  the  force  [in  the  sense  of  vigor]  than  to  the 
beauty  of  a  style,  but  that  after  hearing  Chang's  view,  he  preferred 
to  accept  it.14  The  content  should  of  course  be  emphasized  over  literary 
expression,  but  it  is  just  as  necessary  for  the  style  to  be  beautiful  as 
[to  be  forceful].  Although  [Lu  Yiin]  missed  the  truth  at  first,  he  was 
able  later  to  follow  good  advice. 

13  The  quotation  is  unidentifiable,  and  it  is  not  known  which  writer  he  has  in  mind. 

14  Quoted  from  Lu  Yun's  letter  to  his  elder  brother  Lu  Chi,  the  author  of  the 
Wen-ju.  Chang  is  not  identifiable. 


On  Choice  of  Style  173 

Recent  poets,  in  most  cases,  have  been  attracted  by  sophistry  and 
artistry.  A  study  of  their  style  reveals  that  it  is  the  consequence  of  a 
tendency  toward  pretentiousness.15  Bored  by  the  old,  they  defy  all 
reason  in  the  creation  of  new  forms.  This  pretentious  style,  although 
apparently  difficult,  is  in  fact  nothing  other  than  a  confounding  of 
normal  word  order.  Confounding  the  normal  order  in  an  essay  may 
result  in  impoverishment  of  content,  but  reversing  the  word  order  in 
a  sentence  introduces  novelty.  The  way  to  achieve  this  element  of 
surprise  is  to  reverse  the  order  of  words  in  a  sentence,  to  suppress  the 
second  element  of  a  correlative  term,  and  to  place  what  is  normally 
found  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence  outside  that  sentence.  New  patterns 
are  obtained  by  departing  from  the  normal  way,  reversing  the  order 
and  changing  the  positions  of  words. 

Many  people,  despite  the  fact  that  highways  level  and  well-paved 
exist,  take  to  short  cuts,  because  by  these  short  cuts  they  can  reach 
their  goals  sooner.  Many  writers,  although  they  know  that  essays  as 
normally  written  are  simple  and  clear,  often  indulge  in  the  abnormal, 
because  they  are  catering  to  the  taste  of  the  vulgar.  But  those  who  have 
profound  understanding  achieve  artistry  by  new  conceptions  and  ideas; 
and  not  only  do  those  whose  desire  is  merely  to  be  different  lose  their 
hold  on  the  genre,  but  also  their  works  become  specimens  of  eccentricity. 
A  well-trained  talent  holds  on  to  the  norm  by  which  to  harness  the 
element  of  surprise;  but  a  novice,  whose  courage  is  born  of  inexperi- 
ence, rushes  after  the  odd,  and  so  loses  touch  with  the  norm.  When 
this  tendency  is  allowed  to  go  on  unchecked  and  unreversed,  literary 
style  begins  to  decline.  For  one  who  is  concerned  with  the  art  of  ex- 
pression, no  pains  should  be  spared  to  think  the  whole  thing  through. 

The  Tsan: 
When  a  thing  takes  form,  its  style  is  also  defined. 
The  beginning  and  the  end  agree  in  perfect  accord. 
A  rapid  whirl  spins  as  a  compass  does, 

15  This  tendency  toward  pretentiousness  was  in  vogue  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sung 
period.  See  Chapter  XXIX  for  literary  trends  during  various  periods. 


174  ®n  Choice  of  Style 

And  an  arrow  travels  in  a  straight  line. 

When  galloping  a  charger,16  follow  its  natural  tendency. 

Emotional  moods  and  their  literary  expressions  will  blend  in  perfect 

harmony. 
But  if  one  goes  out  of  his  way  to  imitate  the  steps  of  others, 
His  efforts  will  have  the  same  reward  as  those  of  Shou-ling.17 


XXXI.  Emotion  and  Literary  Expression 


The  literary  writings  of  the  sages  and  worthy  men  are  summed  up 
under  the  phrase  wen-change  or  literary  pattern.  What  is  this,  if  it  is 
not  literary  decorativeness  ? 

Water  by  nature  is  plastic,1  allowing  the  formation  of  ripples;  and 
it  is  of  the  essential  nature  of  trees  to  be  solid,  supporting  flowers  on 
their  calyxes.  The  ornamental  pattern  of  a  thing  is  of  necessity  condi- 
tioned by  its  essential  nature.  On  the  other  hand,  tigers  and  leopards, 
deprived  of  their  patterns,  would  have  the  same  kind  of  hide  as  dogs 
and  sheep;  and  rhinoceros  skins  require  red  varnish  [when  they  are 
made  into  armor].  The  essential  nature  of  a  thing  also  depends  on  its 
ornamental  patterns. 

For  the  depiction  of  our  inner  spirits,  or  the  description  of  physical 
objects,  the  contents  of  the  mind  are  inscribed  in  "the  markings  of 
birds"2  [that  is,  in  writing]  and  in  the  literary  expressions  woven  on 

16  "A  charger"  refers  figuratively  to  a  genre,  the  natural  tendency  of  which  is  the 
proper  style. 

17  Chuangtzu,  45/17/79:  "Have  you  not  heard  of  Shou-ling  yii-tzu's  efforts  to  imitate 
the  steps  of  others  at  Han-tan?  Not  only  did  he  fail  to  learn  the  [dance]  steps  of  the 
master,  he  also  lost  his  native  ability  to  walk.  He  had  to  crawl  all  the  way  home." 

1  The  original  term  is  hsii,  meaning  empty.  The  reason  for  rendering  it  as  "plastic" 
is  that  it  is  matched  by  the  term  shift,  meaning  solid,  in  the  next  line.  Furthermore,  the 
term  empty  does  not  seem  to  express  the  right  idea.  Liu  Hsieh  seems  to  be  trying  to  show 
the  flexibility  of  water,  by  which  it  may  produce  ripples.  This  flexibility  I  try  to  express 
by  the  term  plastic. 

2  See  note  15,  Chapter  I. 


Emotion  and  Literary  Expression  175 

"fish  nets"  [that  is,  paper].3  Brilliance  achieved  in  this  way  we  call 
literary  decorativeness.  Three  main  patterns  are  involved  in  the  crea- 
tion of  literature:  the  color  pattern,  made  up  of  the  five  colors;4  the 
sound  pattern,  made  up  of  the  five  sounds;5  and  the  emotional  pattern, 
made  up  of  the  five  emotions.6  It  is  the  mixing  of  the  five  basic  colors 
which  produces  elegant  embroidery;  it  is  the  harmonizing  of  the  five 
basic  sounds  which  creates  the  ancient  music,  such  as  the  piece  "Shao- 
hsia";7  and  it  is  the  expression  of  the  five  emotions  which  gives  us  the 
essence  of  literature.  All  these  processes  are  natural  results  of  the  opera- 
tion of  Divine  Reason. 

In  the  Boo\  of  Filial  Piety  a  classical  example  illustrates  the  dictum 
that  during  the  mourning  period  one's  words  ought  not  to  be  adorned; 
from  this  we  may  infer  that  during  normal  times  the  words  of  a  man 
of  virtue  are  not  without  adornment.8  It  is  because  Laotzu  hates 
hypocrisy  that  he  says,  "Beautiful  words  are  not  trustworthy,"9  al- 
though his  own  "five  thousand  words"10  are  refined  and  wonderful; 
he  never  sacrifices  beauty.  Chuang  Chou  speaks  of  "eloquence  carving 
likenesses  of  the  ten  thousand  things."  This  apparently  refers  to  literary 
decorativeness.11  And  Han  Fei  speaks  of  "enchanting  appeal  in  argu- 
ment and  discussion,"  meaning  embroidered  beauty.12  But  to  achieve 
a  merely  embroidered  beauty  by  grafting  enchanting  appeal  upon 
one's  argument,  and  to  effect  mere  literary  decorativeness  by  the 
image-carving  of  eloquence  are  examples  of  an  extreme  decline13  in 
literary  tendency.  A  careful  study  of  the  Boo\  of  Filial  Piety  and  the 

3  Paper  was  first  manufactured  of  bark,  hemp,  rags,  and  fish  nets  by  Ts'ai  Lun  in 
A.D.   105. 

4  Five  colors:  green,  yellow,  red,  white,  and  black.  See  "I-chi"  in  the  Boo\  of  History, 
Ts'ai  Shen's  commentary. 

5  Five  sounds:  see  note  2,  Chapter  VII. 

6  Five  emotions:  joy,  anger,  sadness,  pleasure,  and  resentment. 

7  See  note  19,  Chapter  VII.  8  See  "San-ch'ing"  in  the  Boo\  of  Filial  Piety. 

9  See  Laotzu,  Chapter  81.  10  Laotzu  contains  roughly  five  thousand  words. 

11  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  34/13/21. 

12  Han-jei-tzu,  chiian  11,  Chapter  32,  "Wai-ch'u  shuo,"  tso,  shang,  p.  204. 

13  The  term  is  pien  or  change.  As  used  here,  it  definitely  implies  "decline,"  the  sense 
in  which  it  is  used  in  connection  with  the  pien-jeng  and  pien-ya,  the  lyrics  which  have 
declined  in  moral  tone. 


176  Emotion  and  Literary  Expression 

Laotzu  shows  us  that  both  their  rhetoric  and  content  are  conditioned 
by  inner  feeling  and  emotion,  while  a  study  of  the  Chuangtzu  and 
Han-fei-tzu  reveals  to  us  that  they  indulged  in  language  far  more 
flowery  than  necessary  to  express  the  facts.14  If  we  choose  carefully 
between  the  sources  of  the  Ching  River  and  the  Wei;15  and  if  we  rein 
ourselves  in  before  we  decide  between  the  right  and  the  wrong  course, 
we  shall  be  able  to  harness  literary  decorativeness  properly  for  our  use. 
Cosmetics  are  used  to  beautify  the  complexion,  but  the  enchanting  appeal 
in  the  look  is  born  of  natural  beauty;  similarly  the  function  of  literary 
decorativeness  is  to  adorn  discourse,  and  beauty  of  eloquence  is  based 
on  real  emotion.  Therefore,  emotion  is  the  warp  of  literary  pattern, 
linguistic  form  the  woof  of  ideas.  Only  when  the  warp  is  straight 
can  the  woof  be  rightly  formed,  and  only  when  ideas  are  definite  can 
linguistic  form  be  meaningful.  This  is  the  fundamental  principle  in 
literary  creation. 

The  Ancient  Poets,  in  writing  their  poems,  built  their  literary 
forms  on  emotion,  while  later  poets,  in  writing  their  fu  and  sung, 
created  emotion  to  fit  literary  forms.  How  do  we  know  this  is  so? 
Because  the  rise  of  the  feng  and  ya  was  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Ancient 
Poets,  full  of  real  emotions  and  opinions,  sang  of  these  emotions  and 
opinions  in  satirical  remonstrances  against  their  superiors:  this  is 
what  is  meant  by  building  literary  forms  on  emotion.  The  philosophers, 
on  the  contrary,  felt  no  real  frustration,  but  indulged  in  exaggerated 
ornamentation  merely  for  the  sake  of  winning  fame  and  fishing  for 
worldly  glory :  this  is  what  is  meant  by  creating  emotion  to  fit  a  literary 
form.  A  literary  piece  will  be  pertinent,  simple,  and  realistic,  if  it  is 
based  on  feeling;  but  if  it  aims  merely  at  literary  achievement,  though 
it  may  have  deceptively  alluring  charm,  it  will  be  prolix  and  diffuse. 

14  This  may  seem  to  mean  that  both  Chuangtzu  and  Han  Fei  should  be  criticized  for 
their  emphasis  on  literary  adornment.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  literary  adornment  is  exactly 
what  the  two  philosophers  were  trying  to  censure.  Liu  Hsieh  quotes  the  expressions  out 
of  context,  creating  thus  a  wrong  impression  in  the  mind  of  the  reader.  Liu's  criticism 
of  these  philosophers  is  rather  based  on  their  writings  as  a  whole  than  on  these  lines. 

15  Rivers  Ching  and  Wei  come  to  form  one  body  in  Shensi.  The  Ching  is  muddy, 
while  the  Wei  is  clear;  hence  to  distinguish  between  the  Ching  and  the  Wei  means  to 
distinguish  between  what  is  pure  and  what  is  muddy. 


Emotion  and  Literary  Expression  177 

Later  writers  take  to  the  diffuse  and  neglect  the  genuine,  and  forsake 
the  style  of  the  feng  and  ya  for  that  of  the  tz'u  and  fu.1Q  Works  which 
are  based  on  genuine  feeling  become  more  scarce  every  day,  while 
those  which  aim  at  merely  literary  achievement  become  more  and  more 
abundant.  People  whose  minds  are  completely  dominated  by  worldly 
ambition17  sing  vaguely  of  the  blissful  state  of  retirement,  while  people 
whose  hearts  are  wholly  entangled  in  the  business  of  the  day  purpose- 
lessly paint  a  life  beyond  this  workaday  world.  These  people  have  lost 
their  souls,  and  live  lives  of  contradiction.  Peach  and  plum  trees  do  not 
speak,  and  yet  paths  are  formed  beneath  them;18  even  an  orchid  will 
not  be  fragrant19  if  it  has  been  planted  by  a  male,  for  he  would  lack 
true  inner  feeling.  When  even  in  the  case  of  such  insignificant  things 
as  these  plants,  the  inner  feeling  involved  and  the  fruit  borne  are  of 
prime  importance,  how  much  more  should  this  be  the  case  with 
literary  writing,  whose  main  purpose  is  to  express  the  inner  feeling! 
If  words  contradict  the  inner  feeling,  how  can  we  look  to  the  literary 
expressions  for  truth? 

We  put  sentences  together  to  form  beautiful  patterns  for  the  purpose 
of  making  our  ideas  clear.  If  the  patterns  become  too  florid  and  the 
rhetoric  too  eccentric,  our  ideas  will  be  rendered  vaguer  than  ever. 
We  know  very  well  that  to  fish  with  fancy  kingfisher-feather  line  and 

16  Referring  to  the  poetry  of  the  state  of  Ch'u  and  the  Han  dynasty. 

17  This  line  can  be  rendered  as  "whose  mind  is  completely  dominated  by  a  desire  to 
seek  carriage  and  cap,"  both  symbols  of  officialdom. 

18  A  paraphrase  of  a  line  in  the  tsan  to  the  biography  of  Li  Kuang,  in  the  Shih-chi. 
The  implied  meaning:  If  you  have  anything  real  to  offer,  like  the  peach  and  plum  trees, 
though  you  do  not  speak,  people  will  gather  about  you,  just  as  people  come  to  the  trees, 
forming  paths  under  them.  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  seems  to  be  expressing  the  same 
thought  when  he  writes:  "If  a  man  has  good  corn,  or  wood,  or  boards,  or  pigs  to  sell, 
or  can  make  better  chairs  or  knives,  crucibles  or  church  organs  than  anybody  else,  you 
will  find  a  broad,  hard-beaten  road  to  his  house,  though  it  be  in  the  woods"  (Journals, 
ed.  by  Edward  Waldo  Emerson  and  Waldo  Emerson  Forbes  [1912],  VIII,  528).  A 
better-known  and  frequently  quoted  variant  is  believed  to  have  been  first  used  by 
Emerson  in  one  of  a  series  of  lectures  given  in  California  in  1871:  "If  a  man  can  write  a 
better  book,  preach  a  better  sermon,  or  make  a  better  mouse-trap  than  his  neighbor, 
though  he  build  his  house  in  the  woods,  the  world  will  make  a  beaten  path  to  his  door." 

19  A  paraphrase  of  a  line  in  the  Huai-nan-tzu  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'cng  ed.),  chiian  10, 
p.  158.  Fragrance  is  by  nature  a  feminine  quality. 


178  Emotion  and  Literary  Expression 

cassia  bait  is  to  lose  the  catch.20  The  saying,  "Reason  is  covered  up  by 
flowery  expressions"21  probably  means  just  this.  "She  is  dressed  in  a 
brocade  dress,  over  which  is  an  unlined  slipover  robe":  it  is  dislike  of 
the  gaudiness  of  the  brocade  dress  that  prompts  the  use  of  the  slipover 
robe.22  In  the  hexagram  pi  [of  the  Boo\  of  Changes'],  under  "hsiang," 
the  ultimate  color  is  said  to  be  white.23  The  important  thing  is  to  return 
to  the  fundamentals.24  If  a  writer  can  work  out  a  plan  for  expressing 
his  ideas  and  formulate  a  basic  outline  for  speaking  his  mind  [then 
his  ideas  will  be  well  organized  and  his  mind  will  be  at  rest].  When 
his  mind  is  at  rest,  he  may  then  begin  to  formulate  a  sound  pattern, 
and  when  his  ideas  are  well  ordered,  he  may  then  array  them  with 
literary  decorativeness.  In  this  manner,  the  substance  will  not  be 
damaged  by  the  literary  adornment,  and  the  mind  will  not  be  drowned 
in  a  mass  of  erudite  information.  The  classic  pattern  will  shine  forth 
in  vermilion  and  indigo,  and  the  vulgar  color  scheme  of  blue  and 
purple25  will  be  supplanted.  Only  then  may  a  writer  be  spoken  of  thus : 
"Carved  and  chiselled  is  his  external  pattern,"26  and  it  will  be  said  of 
him :  "He  is  indeed  a  man  of  virtue,  whose  external  form  perfectly  bal- 
ances his  inner  substance."27 

The  Tsan: 
Words  travel  far  because  of  their  literary  beauty: 
This  is  very  fully  borne  out  by  experience. 
When  the  thought  in  the  mind  is  well  formed, 
It  blooms  forth  in  glory. 
The  silk  from  Wu  easily  fades, 
And  the  blooms  of  the  shun  tree  are  beautiful  to  no  good  purpose.28 

20  Ma  Kuo-han,  Yii-han  shan-han  chi-i  shu,  chiian  72. 

21  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  4/2/25.  22  Mao-shih  yin-te,  12/57/1. 

23  Chou-i  yin-te,  15/22/shang,  hsiang.  Pi,  the  name  of  the  hexagram,  means  orna- 
mental. The  original  line  runs:  "To  use  white  as  an  ornament  is  free  from  misfortune." 

24  In  this  case,  white  is  the  fundamental  color  for  ornament. 

25  For  the  connotation  of  purple,   see  note   19,  Chapter  IV.  Like  purple,  blue  is  a 
secondary  color,  and  hence  has  a  similar  connotation. 

26 Mao-shih  yin-te,  60/238/5. 

27  A  paraphrase  of  a  line  in  the  Analects.  See  Lun-yii  yin-te,  10/6/18. 

28  The  flowers  of  the  shun  tree,  also  known  as  chin,  fade  in  a  day. 


Casting  and  Cutting  179 

Flowery  rhetoric,  when  lacking  in  genuine  feeling, 
Soon  dulls  our  taste. 


XXXII .  Casting  and  Cutting,  or,  On  Editing  of  Ideas 
and  Rhetoric  (]ung-ts'ai) 


When  emotions  and  ideas  are  in  order,  literary  patterns  become  ap- 
parent. The  nature  of  the  ideas  expressed  in  a  literary  piece — their  vigor 
or  their  delicacy — determines  the  choice  of  a  fundamental  form  for  a 
piece;  and  the  flexible  adaptability  to  changing  situations  enables  one 
to  meet  the  varying  needs  of  different  times.  In  establishing  funda- 
mental form,  there  are  definite  genres  to  choose  from,  although  one 
may  err  through  personal  bias.  But  there  is  no  definite  formula  for 
meeting  the  needs  of  the  time;  hence  rhetoric  often  suffers  from  ver- 
bosity and  confusion.  The  important  task  for  a  writer,  then,  is  to  cast 
and  to  cut,  that  is,  on  the  one  hand  to  give  form  to  his  emotions  and 
ideas,  and  on  the  other  to  polish  his  rhetoric.  For  jung,  or  casting, 
means  to  give  form  to  fundamentals,  and  ts'ai,  or  cutting,  means  to 
shear  away  or  delete  superfluous  words.  The  operation  of  cutting  will 
prevent  the  growth  of  verbal  weeds,  and  the  process  of  casting  will 
bring  into  relief  the  immanent  logical  order.  The  results  may  be  com- 
pared to  the  clearly  marked  distinctions  of  a  carpenter's  line,  and  the 
relief  cut  out  with  the  blade  of  an  ax.  A  double  toe  or  finger  is  a 
superfluous  part  one  is  born  with,  and  a  tumor  or  goiter  is  a  super- 
fluous part  acquired  by  one's  body.  In  literature  repetition  of  an  idea 
is  an  intellectual  poly  dactyl;  and  the  redundance  of  a  phrase  or  sen- 
tence constitutes  a  tumor  of  the  rhetoric. 

During  the  first  moments  of  our  thinking,  we  are  often  vexed  with 
a  welter  of  linguistic  choices.  Lack  of  a  standard  in  our  minds  will 
certainly  lead  to  a  misplacing  of  emphasis.  For  this  reason,  we  establish 


180  Casting  and  Cutting 

three  criteria  to  be  considered  when  a  literary  piece  is  contemplated: 
a  good  beginning,  consisting  in  choosing  the  correct  genre  as  the  ap- 
propriate medium  for  expressing  the  inner  feeling;  as  the  next  proper 
step,  the  collection  of  material  which  is  relevant  to  the  theme;  and  as 
the  final  step,  the  creation  of  linguistic  patterns  forceful  enough  to 
raise  the  important  points  into  relief.  And  then  one  may  attend  to  the 
floral  embellishment  and  the  arrangement  of  facts  to  be  treated;  or  he 
may  decide  what  new  passages  to  add  or  sentences  to  delete.  Strict 
application  of  literary  principles  and  selective  "carving"  of  material 
with  intrinsic  excellence  will  naturally  result  in  unity,  coherence,  and 
order.  If  a  writer  fails  to  master  these  criteria  and  allows  his  mind  to 
go  wherever  rhetoric  leads  it,  he  will  be  overwhelmed  by  mistakes  and 
burdened  with  literary  double  toes  and  tumors. 

Now  that  we  have  established  the  three  criteria,  we  may  begin  to 
consider  the  choice  of  words,  or  forming  of  sentences.  If  there  is  any 
sentence  that  can  be  deleted,  we  know  the  writing  is  loose.  And  when 
not  a  word  can  be  removed,  we  know  the  writing  is  well-knit.  Essential 
ideas  and  important  statements  give  us  a  short,  pithy  form,  and 
winding  thought  and  running  rhetoric  are  always  lengthy  and  dis- 
cursive. The  choice  of  whether  to  be  discursive  or  pithy  depends  on 
the  writer's  taste.  One  may  elaborate  two  sentences  into  one  chapter, 
or  he  may  condense  a  chapter  into  two  sentences.  A  resourceful  thinker 
is  usually  a  good  elaborator,  and  a  logical  talent  is  usually  a  good  con- 
denser. A  good  condenser  deletes  words  while  he  preserves  the  ideas, 
and  a  good  elaborator  uses  a  number  of  different  expressions  to  make 
the  ideas  clear.  If  the  clarity  of  the  ideas  suffers  because  of  the  reduc- 
tion, the  result  will  be  poverty  of  ideas  instead  of  logic;  and  if  linguistic 
redundance  results  from  the  rhetorical  embellishment,  the  result  will 
be  weedy  and  vague  instead  of  resourceful. 

Chang  Chun1  once  said  of  Hsieh  Ai  and  Wang  Chi,  both  literary 
scholars  of  Hsi-ho,2  "Ai's  writing  is  lengthy,  but  no  part  of  it  can  be 
deleted;  while  Chi's  is  short,  but  nothing  can  be  added  to  it."  These  two 

1  See  his  biography  in  the  Chin-shu.  2  In  present  Shansi. 


Casting  and  Cutting  181 

may  be  called  experts  in  the  art  of  casting  and  cutting;  they  had  a  thor- 
ough understanding  of  the  discursive  and  pithy  forms. 

Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi]  was  talented,  but  he  was  long-winded  in  his 
rhetoric;  his  brother  Shih-lung  [or  Lu  Yiin]  was  slow  in  thought,  but 
he  loved  purity  and  brevity.  Yiin,  in  evaluating  Chi's  work,  often  criti- 
cized his  discursiveness,  but  he  did  not  consider  it  a  fault  because  of 
the  freshness  of  his  thought.  This  attitude  is,  in  fact,  the  result  of 
brotherly  consideration. 

When  a  dress  is  to  be  made,  even  though  the  material  may  be  a 
beautifully  embroidered  silk,  there  are  still  measurements  to  follow. 
A  tailor  will  not,  because  of  the  beautiful  pattern  of  a  material,  throw 
into  disorder  the  relative  position  of  collar  and  sleeves.  If  it  is  difficult 
for  a  writer  who  is  clever  to  succeed  in  a  style  which  is  lengthy  and 
discursive,  how  much  more  difficult  would  it  be  for  a  clumsy  writer? 
Of  course,  in  the  Wen-fu  [Lu  Chi]  says,  "Even  thorns  and  brushwood, 
when  allowed  to  flourish,  [will  share  the  reflected  glory  of  the  beau- 
tiful birds  which  gather  there]"  or  "strike  up  vulgar  notes  to  complete 
a  tune."3  It  is  not  that  his  understanding  is  not  penetrating,  but  that  he 
is  unwilling  to  cut  the  lengthy  short. 

The  hundred  segments  form  one  body,  and  all  depend  on  the  spirit 
for  their  being;  and  not  a  single  one  of  all  the  various  items  in  literary 
composition  can  be  divorced  from  rhetorical  expression  on  the  one 
hand  and  the  writer's  feeling  on  the  other.  Without  casting  and  cutting, 
it  would  never  be  possible  to  be  rich  in  opinions  and  emotions  without 
being  too  lengthy,  or  to  employ  beautiful  language  without  committing 
excesses. 

The  Tsan: 
A  literary  composition  has  its  doors  and  windows, 
Whose  positions  express  the  architectural  balance  of  the  piece. 
Language  flows  like  a  stream, 
And  will  overflow  its  banks  if  it  runs  too  full. 
Weighing  what  to  cut  and  what  to  add, 

8  See  note  13,  "Preface." 


1 82  Casting  and  Cutting 

Considering  what  to  enrich  and  what  to  thin, 

Cutting  short  the  lengthy  and  shearing  away  the  weedy, 

This  is  the  way  to  avoid  tedious  burden. 


XXXIII.  Musicalness 


The  origin  of  music  is  found  in  the  human  voice,  inherent  in  which 
is  the  scale  of  \ung  and  shang.1  Musical  quality  of  the  human  voice 
is  inherent  in  man's  very  heart  blood  and  physical  vitality.  On  this 
basis,  early  kings  created  music  and  song.  So  we  know  that  musical 
instruments  depict  the  human  voice :  the  human  voice  does  not  imitate 
the  sounds  of  the  instruments.  Language  may  be  the  crux  of  literary 
writing  and  the  key  to  the  divine  intelligence  [imagination],  but  the 
musicalness  of  the  voice  is  the  result  of  the  movements  of  the  lips  and 
mouth  only. 

In  antiquity,  instruction  in  singing  was  preceded  by  a  study  of 
musical  laws,  according  to  which  quick  notes  were  to  accord  with 
\ung  and  slow  ones  with  chih.2  Kung  and  shang  are  high  notes,  while 
chih  and  yii  are  low  notes.3  From  the  difference  in  the  movement  of  the 
throat,  tongue,  lips,  and  teeth,  it  is  possible  to  distinguish  the  different 
tonal  qualities  clearly. 

When  one  detects  a  discordant  note  while  playing  a  lute,  he  is  aware 

1  Two  of  the  five  notes,  the  others  being  chiieh,  chih,  and  yii.  Kung  is  C;  shang,  D; 
chueh,  E;  chih,  G;  and  yii,  A.  The  use  of  two  notes  to  stand  for  the  whole  scale  is  a 
synecdoche. 

2  See  Han-jei-tzu,  chiian  13,  Chapter  34,  "Wai-ch'u-shuo,"  yu,  shang,  p.  245. 

3  The  original  reading:  "Shang  and  chih  are  high  notes,  while  kiing  and  yii  are  low 
notes."  According  to  Huang  K'an,  the  line  should  run:  "Kung  and  shang  are  high  notes 
and  chih  and  yii  are  low  notes."  See  his  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  cha-chi  (Peiping,  1934), 
p.  64.  However,  interpreting  Kung-shang  to  be  level  tones,  and  chueh-yii  abrupt  tones, 
Wang  Li-k'i,  who  edited  Le  Wen  Sin  Tiao  Long  (Peking,  1951),  chooses  the  following 
reading:  "Chih  and  yii  are  high  notes,  and  kung  and  shang  low  notes."  Huang's  reading 
is  adopted  here,  because  it  is  more  reasonable  to  think  of  level  tones  as  high  notes  and 
abrupt  tones  as  low  notes  than  the  other  way  round. 


Music dness  183 

of  it  and  will  retune  the  string.  But  if  there  is  any  fault  in  a  literary 
composition,  the  writer  seldom  recognizes  it  and  makes  the  necessary 
corrections.  The  musical  note  is  produced  on  strings,  and  yet  it  is 
possible  to  achieve  harmony;  but  one  often  fails  to  achieve  concord 
with  the  sounds  which  are  born  in  the  mind.  Why?  Because  it  is  easy 
to  be  clever  when  listening  to  notes  from  an  external  source  but  diffi- 
cult to  be  understanding  when  listening  to  the  inner  voice.  The  reason 
for  this  is  that,  when  we  listen  to  instrumental  notes,  it  is  our  hands 
which  adjust  the  strings;  but  when  we  listen  to  the  inner  voice,  we 
often  confuse  the  sounds  with  other  mental  activities.  Music  may  be 
governed  by  mathematical  formulas,  but  these  cannot  be  adapted  for 
verbal  expressions. 

Tones  are  of  two  kinds:  the  flying,  or  p'ing,  literally  level,  and  the 
sinking,  or  tse,  literally  abrupt;  and  consonance  is  also  of  two  varieties: 
a  pair  of  alliterated  words  or  a  pair  of  rhymed  words.  Neither  an  al- 
literated nor  a  rhymed  pair  can  be  separated  in  a  line  or  in  a  sentence 
without  doing  some  harm  to  the  prosody.4  Furthermore,  a  sinking 
tone,  when  enunciated  alone,  sounds  abrupt,  as  if  cut  short;  and  a 
flying  tone  alone  has  a  tendency  to  fly  away,  never  to  return.  All  these 
elements  must  be  interwoven  to  produce  a  tightly  knit  harmonious 
whole.  Should  any  one  element  in  the  concatenation  go  amiss,  a  discord 
will  result.  It  is  a  type  of  disease  which  may  be  called  a  stutter  in 
literary  writing. 

The  literary  stutter  results  from  a  love  of  the  odd.  In  chasing  after 
the  new  and  strange,  the  writer  naturally  embrangles  his  throat  and 
lips.  To  get  rid  of  this  stuttering,  he  must  be  firm  in  attacking  it.  If 
obstructed  on  the  left,  he  should  try  his  fortune  on  the  right;  if  ham- 
pered in  the  rear,  he  should  seek  a  solution  ahead.  Only  then  will  the 
tone  ring  like  resonant  jade  and  the  language  fill  the  ear  with  smooth- 
ness like  that  of  a  string  of  beads:  the  beauty  or  the  ugliness  of  the 

4  Both  paired  alliteration  and  paired  rhyme  are  considered  a  compound,  always  to  be 
kept  together.  The  Boof{  of  Poetry  abounds  in  these  compounds.  Ts'en-ts'i  is  an  alliterated 
pair  and  yao-tiao  a  rhymed  pair.  See  poem  no.  i.  Transliteration  is  Karlgren's. 


184  Music  dness 

spoken  sound  and  the  graphic  picture5  appears  in  the  metrical  chant- 
ing of  it.  Literary  taste  is  expressed  in  words  and  sentences;  and 
vitality  finds  its  full  manifestation  in  ho,  or  harmony,  and  yun,  or 
rhyme.  By  ho  is  meant  the  harmony  of  different  sounds  and  tones,  and 
by  yiin,  the  consonant  response  of  the  same  final  vowel.6  The  yun  has 
a  definite  pattern,  so  it  is  comparatively  easy  to  arrange  the  sounds  to 
fit  the  pattern;  but  the  ho  elements  are  sometimes  low  and  sometimes 
high,  so  it  is  rather  difficult  to  harmonize  all  the  tones.  Although  it 
may  be  easy  for  a  writer  to  be  deft  in  wielding  a  pen,  he  will  find  it 
difficult  to  select  tones  which  will  be  harmonious;  on  the  other  hand,  it 
is  difficult  to  achieve  perfection  in  literary  writing,  although  it  is  easy 
to  versify  according  to  a  rhyme  scheme.  However,  although  the  subtle 
and  delicate  nature  of  the  employment  of  yun  and  ho  is  difficult  to 
describe,  we  have  here  touched  upon  the  main  principles  involved. 

Perfect  accuracy  in  music  is  illustrated  in  the  blowing  of  a  flute. 
The  choice  of  notes  to  achieve  harmony  is  illustrated  in  the  playing 
of  a  lute.  In  playing  a  lute,  the  musician  must  move  the  bridge  con- 
stantly and  may  therefore  occasionally  make  mistakes;  but  in  flute 
playing,  since  the  notes  are  all  of  a  fixed  nature,  it  does  not  matter 
how  the  musician  plays,  he  will  always  produce  the  note  intended.  The 
writing  of  Ch'en  Ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  and  P'an  Yueh  is  of  the  nature 
of  a  flute-blowing  melody,  while  that  of  Lu  Chi  and  Tso  Ssu  is  of  the 
nature  of  the  bridge-moving  harmony  of  the  lute  player.  On  the  basis 
of  these  examples  one  may  draw  many  further  inferences. 

The  Ancient  Poets  generally  emphasize  purity  and  conciseness  in 
their  rhyme  scheme.  But  the  songs  of  Ch'u  manifest  Ch'u  character- 
istics, and  their  pretentious  rhyme  scheme  is  very  complicated  indeed. 
When  Chang  Hua  treated  of  rhyme,  he  said  that  Shih-heng  [or  Lu 
Chi]  exhibits  many  Ch'u  characteristics;  and  in  the  Wen-fuy  Lu  him- 
self mentioned,  "Keep  the  full  details  without  change."7  [Lu]  may  be 

5  "The  sound  and  picture"  is  from  a  line  of  Yang  Hsiung's  Fa-yen,  quoted  in  an 
earlier  chapter.  See  Chapter  XXV,  p.   144. 

6  Two  or  more  lines  ending  in  the  same  vowel. 

7  Lu  Chi's  Wen-fu,  in  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  17,  p.  174.  Liu  Hsieh  quotes  this  line  to 
show  Lu  Chi's  love  of  pretentious  style. 


Music  dness  185 

said  to  have  attached  himself  to  the  musical  pattern  of  Ling-chiin  [or 
Chii  Yuan],8  and  to  have  lost  sight  of  the  classical  tune  based  on  the 
huang-chung*  [and  the  twelve-tone  scale].  The  organization  of  sounds 
in  a  musical  pattern  should  be  smooth  and  round.  A  pretentious  sound 
pattern  in  a  literary  piece  is  generally  hopelessly  more  impracticable 
than  the  forcing  of  a  square  handle  into  a  round  socket.  If  one  is  able 
to  avoid  this  fault  of  the  square  handle,  he  will  not  commit  any  great 
mistake. 

A  well-trained  talent  with  a  deep  understanding  is  usually  fastidious 
about  the  choice  of  words  and  tones;  but  a  less  experienced  person 
perfunctorily  takes  the  sounds  as  they  come  along.  Sounds  taken  as  they 
come  may  be  compared  to  those  produced  by  a  sweeping  wind,  or  the 
jarring  notes  from  the  yii10  played  by  [the  inept]  Nan-kuo.11  The 
Ancients  arranged  their  musical  jade  pendants  by  placing  the  \ung 
jade  on  the  left  and  the  chih  jade  on  the  right,  for  the  purpose  of  giving 
melody  to  their  steps,  so  as  to  avoid  confusion  in  the  pattern  of  the 
sounds.12  The  musical  patterns  are  used  to  regulate  the  sound  of  a 
literary  piece.  Can  they  be  overlooked? 

The  Tsan: 
In  expressing  emotion,  one  must  go  far  for  his  standard, 
But  the  musical  patterns  are  near  at  hand. 

The  rhythm  of  flute  blowing  is  based  on  that  of  our  physical  vitality, 
And  the  tones  of  bells,  on  the  sounds  of  our  lips  and  mouth. 
When  sounds  have  their  seasoning  of  salt  and  plum  sourness,13 
The  music  will  be  as  smooth  as  yii  and  chin?'4' 

8  The  chief  poet  of  Ch'u.  See  Chapter  V. 

9  The  first  note  in  the  chromatic  scale.  See  note  3,  Chapter  VII. 

10  A  musical  instrument  consisting  of  thirty-six  reed  pipes. 

11  Chin-shu,  in  the  biography  of  Liu  Shih:  "Mr.  Nan-kuo  does  not  [know  how  to] 
play  the  yii." 

12  See  Li-chi  yin-te,  13/17. 

13  Salt  and  plum,  which  are  sour,  are  used  to  season  food.  See  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien, 
17/0524-31. 

14  Yii,  elm,  whose  seeds  are  edible,  and  chin,  a  kind  of  vegetable,  are  used  as  spices. 
Chin  tastes  smooth. 


1 86  Music  due ss 

When  the  errors  in  sound  pattern  are  eliminated,15 
It  will  be  difficult  to  hide  the  musical  quality  of  a  piece. 


XXXIV.  Paragraph  and  Sentence 


There  is  a  definite  order  to  be  observed  in  the  treatment  of  emotions 
and  ideas,  and  there  is  a  definite  position  for  each  word.  The  ordering 
of  emotion  and  ideas  is  known  as  change  or  paragraphing;  and  the 
placement  of  words  is  called  chu\  or  constructing  a  sentence.  Chang 
means  literally  "to  make  clear,"  and  chu  "to  define  a  position."  To 
define  the  positions  of  words  is  to  string  words  together  to  form  a  dis- 
tinct sentence;  and  to  make  clear  emotion  and  ideas  is  to  give  unity 
of  thought  complete  form.  Although  they  differ,  the  functions  of 
chang  and  chu  cross  each  other  like  main  roads  and  side  streets,  afford- 
ing good  conditions  for  communication. 

In  order  to  express  what  one  has  to  say,  one  needs  to  form  sentences 
from  words,  to  organize  sentences  into  paragraphs,  and  to  organize 
paragraphs  into  completed  compositions.  The  brilliance  of  a  literary 
piece  depends  on  the  faultlessness  of  each  paragraph;  the  clarity  of  the 
paragraph  depends  on  the  flawlessness  of  each  sentence;  and  the  purity 
of  the  sentence  depends  on  a  happy  choice  of  words.  For  when  the 
stem  stands  up,  the  branches  naturally  follow;  and  when  one  under- 
stands a  unifying  principle,  he  understands  all  about  the  ten  thousand 
[phenomena  subsumed  under  that  principle]. 

Literary  compositions  are  sometimes  long  and  sometimes  short;  and 
the  division  into  paragraphs  and  the  construction  of  sentences  conform 
to  different  tempos  at  different  times.  For  these  differences  there  is  no 

15  These  errors  refer  to  the  eight  faults  in  sound  patterns,  formulated  by  Shen  Yueh 
and  others.  See  K6  B5  Dai  Shi's  Bun  Kyo  Hi  Fu  Ron,  where  these  faults  are  extensively 
treated.  Ko  Bo  Dai  Shi  Zenshu  (Tokyo,  1910),  Vol.  VIII,  chiian  5,  pp.  138-73.  In 
addition  to  these  eight,  Ko  Bo  Dai  Shi  discussed  twenty  other  faults.  For  these  additional 
faults,  see  especially  pp.  151-62. 


Paragraph  and  Sentence  187 

fixed  rule,  and  one  must  adapt  his  methods  to  varying  circumstances. 
A  sentence  is  composed  of  several  words,  which  must  be  grouped  to 
make  sense;  and  a  paragraph  comprehends  all  aspects  of  one  idea,  and 
all  must  be  fully  expressed  before  the  paragraph  may  be  considered 
a  paragraph.  The  way  emotions  and  ideas  are  introduced  and  expressed, 
at  tempos  varying  with  different  situations,  may  be  likened  to  the 
whirl  and  swirl  of  a  dance,  in  which  each  dancer  has  his  special  posi- 
tion in  the  formation  and  a  special  limit  within  which  he  is  constrained; 
it  may  also  be  likened  to  intonation  in  singing,  with  rising  and  falling 
cadence. 

The  Ancient  Poets,  in  forging  metaphors,  often  take  ideas  out  of 
their  context;  however,  in  a  composition  one  organizes  paragraphs  and 
constructs  sentences  in  an  orderly  manner  from  beginning  to  end,  just 
as  one  would  pull  a  silk  thread  from  a  cocoon.  The  beginning  lines 
should  lead  to  the  ideas  to  be  embodied  in  the  middle  of  the  composi- 
tion, and  the  concluding  sentences  should  reiterate  the  thought  ex- 
pressed in  what  has  gone  before.  Thus  one  may  achieve  literary  beauty 
in  form  and  organic  unity  in  content,  and  the  piece  from  beginning 
to  end  will  be  such  a  tightly  knit  composition  that  its  different  parts 
will  be  to  each  other  like  flower  to  calyx.  For  words,  if  they  lost  their 
appropriate  companions,  would  be  isolated  without  friends;  and  feel- 
ings and  ideas,  when  set  down  out  of  order,  would  float  around  forever 
with  no  place  to  rest.  Therefore,  in  constructing  sentences,  one  must 
avoid  reversing  the  proper  order  of  words;  and  in  forming  paragraphs, 
one  must  pay  attention  to  the  order  in  which  the  ideas  are  treated.  This 
is  the  principle  in  dealing  with  feelings  and  ideas,  and  the  general  rule 
governing  rhetoric. 

Neither  a  composition1  nor  the  sentences  it  contains  are  a  fixed 
length,  but  the  number  of  words  in  a  composition  or  in  a  sentence  may 
be  arbitrarily  fixed.  A  four-word  line  is  a  close-knit  but  unhurried  unit; 
a  six- word  line,  though  loose,  is  not  slow;  and  sometimes  the  pattern 
is  changed  to  three-word  or  five- word  lines  as  an  adjustment  to  meet 

1  Reading  with  Wang  Li-k'i  "p'ien-chu"  (i.e.,  a  composition  and  the  sentences  [it 
contains]),  for  "pi-chii"  (i.e.,  brush  and  sentences). 


1 88  Paragraph  and  Sentence 

D 

an  exigency.  The  form  of  the  poems  and  of  the  sung,  or  sacrificial 
odes,  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  is  marked  with  a  dignity  whose  proper 
pattern  is  the  four- word  line;  exceptions  are  "Ch'i-fu"  and  Chao-yin,"2 
which  are  made  up  of  two-word  lines.  As  far  as  we  can  determine,  the 
two-word  line  pattern  began  with  the  "Tuan-chu,"  a  folk  song  accom- 
panied by  the  bamboo  flute,  which  was  popular  during  the  time  of 
Emperor  Huang;3  the  three- word  line  pattern  first  appeared  in  the 
"Ode  to  the  Chief"  composed  during  the  Yii  period;4  the  four- word 
line  pattern  flourished  during  the  time  of  the  Hsia,  as  is  seen  in  the 
song  of  "Lo-jui"  [that  is,  "Song  on  the  Trend  of  the  River  Lo"];5  the 
five-word  line  pattern  made  its  appearance  in  the  Chou  dynasty,  with 

the  poem  "Hsing-lu"6  as  one  example;  and  the  six- word  and  seven-word 
B 

line  patterns  are  found  in  both  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  and  the  Songs  of 

Ch'u.  [The  last  two  patterns]  achieved  perfection  in  the  Western  Han 
period.7  The  evolution  of  the  patterns  in  expressing  feeling  has  gone 
full  circle,  one  form  replacing  another  in  accordance  with  the  needs 
of  each  age. 

While  some  writers  vary  their  rhymes,  others  repeat  the  same  tone, 
in  order  to  give  cadence  and  rhythm  to  their  expression  and  breath. 
Chia  I  and  Mei  Sheng  changed  their  rhymes  every  two  lines,  while 
Liu  Hsin  and  Huan  T'an  stuck  to  the  same  one  for  a  hundred  lines. 
In  cases  like  these,  each  is  carrying  out  his  own  intention.  Wei-wu,8  in 
commenting  on  fu,  or  poetic  prose,9  expressed  disgust  with  the  repeti- 
tion of  rhymes  and  praised  those  who  were  good  at  changing  their 
rhymes.10  Lu  Yun  also  said  that  in  the  case  of  the  four-word  line 

2  See  nos.  185  and  268  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 

3  See  note  3,  Chapter  XXIX.  4  See  note  17,  Chapter  I. 

5  Could  this  be  what  is  called  the  "Writing  from  the  River  Lo?"  See  note  12,  Chapter 
I.  According  to  the  "Wu-hsing  chih"  in  the  Han-shu,  the  "Lo  River  Writing"  was  given 
to  Yii,  the  creator  of  the  Hsia  dynasty,  and  is  contained  in  Chapter  24  in  the  Boo\  of 
History,  entitled  "Hung-fan."  The  part  considered  to  be  the  "Lo  River  Writing"  is  written 
in  a  four-word  line  pattern,  though  it  is  not  a  song  or  a  poem,  as  we  would  expect.  See 
Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  24/0090-0155. 

6  No.  17  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  7  Also  known  as  Former  Han. 

8  Or  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  the  father  of  Ts'ao  P'ei  and  Ts'ao  Chih. 

9  See  Chapter  VIII.  10  This  quotation  is  not  identifiable. 


Paragraph  and  Sentence  189 

pattern  it  is  best  to  change  the  rhyme  every  four  lines.11  From  these 
expressions  it  would  seem  that  the  opinion  of  these  two  men  about 
rhyme  is  similar  to  that  of  Mei  Sheng  and  Chia  I.  However,  if  we 
change  the  rhyme  every  two  lines,  we  may  find  the  tonal  pattern  a 
little  too  hasty;  but  on  the  other  hand,  not  to  change  the  rhyme  for  a 
hundred  lines  will  tax  the  lips  and  mouth  to  the  full.  Although  an 
exquisite  talent  with  a  passion  for  words  may  be  able  to  achieve  the 
best  in  whatever  form  he  happens  to  apply  his  mind  to,  it  is  better 
to  hold  to  the  mean  with  the  certainty  that  one  will  not  plunge  into 
a  pitfall. 

The  Ancient  Poets  used  the  [purely  metric  particle]  hsi12  as  an 
integral  part  of  a  sentence;  but  in  the  "Songs  of  Ch'u"  it  is  used  as  an 
extra  word.  In  fact,  hsi  in  a  sentence  serves  to  assist  the  words  by  pro- 
longing their  sound.  It  was  used  long  ago  by  Shun  when  he  composed 
his  "Nan-feng."13  But  Wei-wu  did  not  like  it,  perhaps  because  it  adds 
nothing  to  the  meaning  of  a  piece?  Fu,  wei,  \ai>  and  \u  are  particles 
to  initiate  a  sentence;14  chih,  erh,  yii,  and  *  are  particles  used  tradi- 
tionally as  conjunctions  inserted  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence;15  hu,  tsai, 
i,  and  yeh  are  particles  usually  used  to  conclude  a  sentence.16  These 
particles  seem  idle  words  with  no  factual  content,  but  in  use  they  have 

11  Quoted  from  his  letter  to  his  elder  brother  Lu  Chi. 

12  A  particle  giving  pause  to  a  line  without  adding  to  it  any  new  sense. 

13  See  note  10,  Chapter  VI. 

14  When  placed  at  the  beginning  of  a  sentence,  the  particle  fu  serves  to  initiate  the 
ideas  expressed;  wei,  to  show  a  contrast  to  the  idea  in  the  previous  sentence;  \ai,  to 
introduce  a  fact  or  a  general  truth;  \u,  to  show  a  causal  relation  between  the  sentence 
it  introduces  and  the  preceding  one. 

15  Chih,  when  placed  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence,  serves  as  a  particle  to  show  a  rela- 
tionship between  what  precedes  and  what  follows  it;  erh,  to  show  a  transition  or  addi- 
tion; yii,  to  express  a  relationship  or  comparison;  i,  to  show  instrumentality,  reason,  etc. 

16  when  placed  at  the  end  of  a  sentence,  the  particle  hu  serves  to  express  either  a 
question  or  an  exclamation;  tsai,  to  express  an  exclamation;  i,  to  indicate  the  completion 
of  an  idea;  yeh,  to  indicate  the  conclusion  of  a  sentence,  serving  as  a  full  stop.  In  ex- 
plaining these  particles,  I  have  stated  that  "when  placed"  at  certain  positions,  they  would 
mean  such  and  such,  because  we  do  find  them  also  placed  at  other  places  than  those 
enumerated  by  Liu  Hsieh.  Obviously  it  was  not  his  interest  either  to  make  an  exhaustive 
study  of  all  the  functions  of  the  particles  mentioned,  or  to  study  all  the  particles  ex- 
haustively, though  such  a  study  could  have  been  very  interesting  and  important.  At  any 
rate,  Liu  Hsieh  deserves  commendation  for  being  the  first  to  direct  attention  to  some 
of  the  particles  and  treat  them  as  a  group. 


190  Paragraph  and  Sentence 

a  real  function  to  perform.  Clever  writers  will  use  them  dexterously  to 
fill  in  whatever  is  lacking  in  the  style,  assisting  the  sentences  with  these 
extra  words.  If  no  mistake  can  be  permitted  in  the  use  of  extra  words, 
how  much  less  can  it  be  allowed  when  one  is  engaged  in  forming 
paragraphs  and  constructing  sentences! 

The  Tsan: 

There  are  rules  about  the  organization  of  a  paragraph, 

Though  sentence  construction  is  without  a  definite  pattern. 

Ideas  should  be  developed  around  a  central  theme, 

And  elements  of  rhetoric  should  never  be  without  appropriate  com- 
panions. 

Define  emotion  by  the  choice  of  a  proper  tune, 

So  that  they  may  encircle  and  respond  to  each  other. 

When  to  separate,  when  to  merge,  when  to  emphasize  similarity  and 
when  to  emphasize  difference — 

These  decisions  are  worthy  of  one's  utmost  effort. 


XXXV.  Linguistic  Parallelism 


Nature,  creating  living  beings,  endows  them  with  limbs  in  pairs.  The 
divine  reason  operates  in  such  a  way  that  nothing  stands  alone.  The 
mind  creates  literary  language,  and  in  doing  this  it  organizes  and 
shapes  one  hundred  different  thoughts,  making  what  is  high  supple- 
ment what  is  low,  and  spontaneously  producing  linguistic  parallelism. 
During  the  ages  of  the  T'ang  and  the  Yii,1  when  language  was  not 
adorned  to  any  great  extent,  we  already  find  Kao  Yao  using  the 
following  expression: 

tsui  i  wei  ch'ing 
\ung  i  wei  chung 

1  Dynasties  ruled  by  Yao  and   Shun,  two  ancient  legendary  kings. 


Linguistic  Parallelism  191 

[Crime:  when  in  doubt,  then  deem  it  light; 
Merit:  when  in  doubt,  then  deem  it  heavy.]2 

and  I  [another  minister  of  Shun]  saying: 

man  chao  sun 

ch'ien  shou  i 

[Fullness  of  self  brings  decrease; 

Modesty  receives  increase.]3 

Without  intending  to  produce  couplets,  they  did  so,  spontaneously.  The 
"Wen-yen"  and  "Hsi-tz'u"  of  the  Boo\  of  Changes  embody  the  pro- 
found thought  of  the  Sage.  In  the  narration  of  the  four  virtues  of  the 
hexagram  ch'ien,  the  sentences  are  matched  in  couplets,  and  in  the 
description  of  the  kinds  of  responses  evoked  by  the  dragon  and  the 
tiger,  the  words  are  all  paralleled  in  pairs.  When  describing  the  hexa- 
grams of  ch'ien  and  1(un  as  easy  and  simple  respectively,  the  passage 
winds  and  turns,  with  lines  smoothly  woven  into  one  another;  and  in 
depicting  the  going  and  coming  of  the  sun  and  the  moon,  the  alternate 
lines  form  couplets.  Occasionally  there  may  be  some  variation  in  the 
structure  of  a  sentence,  or  some  change  in  word  order,  but  parallelism 
is  always  the  aim.4  As  to  the  parallelism  found  in  the  work  of  the 
Ancient  Poets  or  in  the  antiphonal  lines  of  the  Chou  ministers,5  both 
contain  both  single  elements6  and  couplets,  each  appropriate  for  the 
situation  at  hand;  and  these  come  forth  spontaneously  with  no  trace 
of  labor.  In  the  hands  of  Yang  [Hsiung],  [Ssu-]  Ma  [Hsiang-ju], 
Chang  [Heng]  and  Ts'ai  [Yung],  all  of  whom  stressed  linguistic 
parallelism  particularly  strongly,  couplet  writing  flourished  as  spectacu- 

2  The  Boo\  of  History  (Shih-san-ching  chu-shu  ed.),  4/73.  Kao  Yao  was  a  minister 
of  Shun.  I  have  arranged  the  two  lines  in  such  a  way  as  to  show  the  parallel  structure. 
More  freely  translated:  "When  we  are  in  doubt  about  the  crime  committed,  we  would 
rather  err  on  the  side  of  lenience;  and  when  we  are  in  doubt  about  someone's  merit,  we 
would  rather  err  in  giving  a  heavier  reward  than  is  deserved." 

3  Ibid.,  4/ 1 4a. 

4  For  the  text  of  this  passage,  see  Chou-i  yin-te,  1/1/yen,  2/1/yen,  39/Hsi  shang/i, 
46  Hsi  hsia/3. 

5  It  was  the  general  practice  at  that  time  for  diplomatic  envoys  to  sing  their  missions 
in  verse,  and  to  be  answered  in  verse. 

6  I  use  "element,"  because  it  may  refer  to  characters,  phrases,  or  sentences. 


192  Linguistic  Parallelism 

larly  as  Sung  painting7  and  Wu  casting,8  and  in  fact  they  too  indulged 
in  a  species  of  carving  and  engraving;  as  a  result  of  it,  we  find  their 
coupled  sentences  developing  side  by  side  with  colorful  patterns,  and 
their  parallelism  bursting  forth  in  conjunction  with  exquisite  tonal 
arrangement.  The  host  of  talented  writers  during  the  Wei  and  the 
Chin  analyzed  sentence  structure  with  scrupulous  attention  and  coined 
phrases  in  harmony  with  their  thought;  they  even  split  hairs,  and 
scrutinized  the  infinitesimal.  But  only  those  who  struck  the  mysterious 
spring  entered  into  the  realm  of  art.  The  superficial  and  the  sophisti- 
cated labored  to  no  avail. 

Of  the  forms  of  couplet  there  are  four  kinds:  the  verbal  couplet,  the 
factual  couplet,  the  couplet  of  contrast,  and  the  couplet  of  agreement. 
It  is  easy  to  compose  a  verbal  couplet,  but  it  is  comparatively  difficult 
to  make  a  factual  one;  a  couplet  of  contrast  is  superb,  but  one  of  agree- 
ment is  comparatively  poor.  In  a  verbal  couplet,  one  matches  mere 
words;  in  a  factual  couplet,  one  must  deal  with  what  is  actually  experi- 
enced; a  couplet  of  contrast  is  one  in  which  different  ways  of  reasoning 
meet  on  common  ground;  and  a  couplet  of  agreement  one  in  which 
different  facts  illustrate  a  single  idea. 

For  example: 

The  verbal  couplet:  "Labor  to  improve  your  demeanor  in  the  garden 
of  rites;  let  yourself  soar  in  the  field  of  books."  From  the  "Shang-lin  fu" 
by  Ch'ang-ch'ing  [or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju]. 

The  factual  couplet:  "[The  ancient  beauty]  Mao-ch'iang,  hiding 
herself  behind  her  lapel,  may  not  be  the  standard  to  compare  [the 
goddess]  with;  [the  ancient  beauty]  Hsi-shih,  her  face  covered,  lost 
color  before  [the  goddess]."  From  the  "Shen-nii  fu"  by  Sung  Yu. 

1  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  56/21/45:  "The  ruler  of  Sung  was  having  paintings  made.  All 
the  painters  gathered  together  and  stood  up  ceremoniously  after  receiving  their  com- 
missions and  doing  obeisance  to  the  ruler.  .  .  .  One  painter  came  late,  walking  un- 
hurriedly, and  when  he  received  his  commission  he  did  not  stand  up.  Instead,  he  went 
to  his  quarters.  The  ruler  sent  someone  to  watch  him.  He  found  that  the  painter  had 
taken  off  his  dress  and  sat  naked  with  his  two  legs  stretched  out.  The  ruler  said,  'This 
is  the  right  way  to  behave.  He  is  indeed  a  true  painter.'  " 

8  The  state  of  Wu  is  famous  for  casting  swords.  See  the  "Ho-lii  nei-chuan"  in  the 
Wu-yiieh  ch'un-ch'iu. 


Linguistic  Parallelism  193 

The  couplet  of  contrast:  "Chung  I,  the  humble,  played  the  music  of 
Ch'u;  Chuang  Hsi,  the  prominent,  groaned  in  the  manner  of  Yiieh."9 
From  "Teng-lou  fu"  by  Chung-hsiian  [or  Wang  Ts'an]. 

The  couplet  of  agreement:  "Han-tsu  thought  of  Fen-yii;  Kuang-wu 
thought  of  Pai-shui."  From  "Ch'i-ai"  by  Meng-yang  [or  Chang  Tsai].10 

A  verbal  couplet  can  be  forged  in  one's  imagination — hence  it  is  easy; 
a  factual  couplet  must  have  an  actual  source  in  one's  knowledge — hence 
it  is  difficult;  the  "humble"  [i.e.,  Chung  I]  and  the  "prominent"  [i.e., 
Chuang  Hsi]  contrast,  but  express  the  same  nostalgia — hence  the 
couplet  is  superb;  in  the  example  of  the  couplet  of  agreement,  the  two 
main  characters  are  both  rulers  and  have  identical  hopes — hence  it  is 
poor.  Furthermore,  of  the  factual  couplets,  some  may  be  couplets  of 
contrast  and  some  of  agreement.  If  one  can  infer  on  the  basis  of  these 
principal  categories,  he  will  see  the  ten  thousand  branches  lying 
revealed  before  him. 

Chang  Hua  wrote  in  one  of  his  poems: 

Roaming  geese  soar  together  wing  to  wing; 
Returning  swans  know  enough  to  link  their  plumes. 

And  Liu  K'un  also  wrote: 

Hsuan-ni  [or  Confucius]  lamented  the  capture  of  the  unicorn; 
During  the  hunt  in  the  west  K'ung  Ch'iu  [or  Confucius]  shed  tears.11 

9  Chung  I,  a  native  of  Ch'u,  became  a  captive  in  Chin.  When  asked  to  play  the  lute, 
he  played  a  southern  tune,  a  spontaneous  expression  of  a  desire  to  go  home.  See  Ch'un- 
ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  228/ch'eng  9/fu  2.  Chung  Hsi,  a  native  of  Yiieh,  became  a 
high  official  of  Ch'u.  When  sick,  he  groaned  in  the  manner  of  Yiieh,  also  a  spontaneous 
expression  of  a  nostalgia.  See  Shih-chi  (1739),  chiian  70,  the  biography  of  Ch'en  Chen, 
p.  1 8b. 

10  The  first  three  pieces  cited  here  are  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian.  The  last  one  is  not, 
though  two  other  poems  by  Chang  Tsai  with  the  same  title  are  included  in  the  Wen- 
hsiian.  Han-tsu  (or  Kao-tsu),  the  first  emperor  of  the  Han  dynasty,  sacrificed  at  the 
temple  in  the  village  of  Fen-yii  in  his  home  district,  with  the  hope  that  the  deities 
might  help  him  bring  peace  to  the  empire.  See  Han-shu,  "Chiao-ssu  chih."  Kuang-wu, 
the  first  emperor  of  the  Later  Han,  also  hoping  for  peace,  for  he  had  had  to  fight  his 
way  to  the  top,  thought  of  Pai-shui,  a  river,  the  theme  of  an  ancient  poem  now  lost. 
Among  the  lines  which  are  preserved  in  Liu  Hsiang's  Lieh-nii  chuan  are  these  two  lines: 
"The  state  has  not  been  pacified;  where  shall  I  proceed?"  See  Liu  Hsiang's  Lieh-nii 
chuan   (Ssu-k'u  pei-yao  ed.),  chiian  6,  p.  4. 

11  Both  "wing  to  wing"  and  "to  link  plumes"  mean  companionship  or  love.  And  in 


194  Linguistic  Parallelism 

Such   redundance  makes   these   lines   examples   of  polydactylism   in 
parallel  sentences.12 

In  a  verbal  couplet,  the  beauty  lies  in  artistry  and  cleverness;  but  in 
a  factual  couplet,  the  important  thing  is  appropriateness.  When  two 
verbal  expressions  of  unequal  quality  are  matched  in  a  couplet,  it  is 
like  harnessing  to  a  two-horse  carriage  a  thoroughbred  on  the  left  and 
a  nag  on  the  right.  An  isolated  fact  unmatched  is  like  the  one-legged 
monster  J(uei,  which  hobbles  and  limps.13  If  a  literary  piece  lacks  won- 
derful spirit  or  vitality,  or  if  its  language  is  without  extraordinary 
patterns,  then  even  if  it  is  full  of  beautiful  parallel  expressions,  their 
mediocrity  serves  merely  to  make  our  ears  and  eyes  drowsy  and  to  put 
us  to  sleep.  What  is  important  here  then  is  to  make  the  reasoning 
coherent  and  the  factual  reference  pertinent;  to  fill  the  paragraphs  with 
dazzling  jade  in  pairs,  to  use  alternatingly  single  and  coupled  elements, 
and  to  moderate  the  brilliance  of  the  effect  through  the  variety  of  the 
pendants.  If  one  generalizes  on  the  basis  of  these  observations,  he  will 
see  the  main  principles  unravel  of  themselves. 

The  Tsan: 
A  body  requires  its  limbs  to  be  in  pairs; 
A  phrase,  once  forged,  must  have  its  counterpart. 
With  the  left  hand  one  lifts;  and  one  holds  with  the  right, 
To  attain  both  the  essence  and  the  flavor. 

Parallelism  gleams  and  dazzles  like  flowers  which  are  entwined, 
Reflecting  without  distortion  like  a  calm  mirror. 
It  flows  in  two  streams,  smooth  as  jade, 
Giving  rhythm  as  do  the  pendant  jewels.14 

Liu  K'un's  verse  both  lines  have  exactly  the  same  theme,  that  is,  that  Confucius  was 
sad  on  hearing  of  the  capture  of  the  unicorn  during  the  hunt  in  the  west. 

12  Chang  Hua's  poem  is  found  in  the  Yii-t'ai  hsin-yung,  compiled  by  Hsu  Ling,  507- 
583;  Liu  K'un's  poem  is  found  in  Wen-hsiian. 

13  For  the  one-legged  monster,  see  Han-fei-tzu,  chiian  12,  Chapter  33,  "Wai-ch'u-shuo," 
tso,  hsia,  p.  222;  and  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  44I1JI53. 

14  See  Li-chi  yin-te,  13/17. 


XXXVI.  Metaphor1  and  Allegory  (Pi  and  Hsing) 


Broad  and  profound  is  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  in  which  are  contained  the 
Six  Elements.2  Master  Mao3  in  his  commentary,  however,  drew  par- 
ticular attention  to  the  hsing,  or  allegory,  alone;  was  this  not  perhaps 
because  the  feng,  or  lyric,  spontaneously  stirs  the  emotions,  the  fu,  or 
narrative,  might  affect  them  indifferently,  and  the  pi,  or  metaphor,  is 
obvious,  but  the  hsing  alone  is  obscure?  Pi  involves  reasoning  by 
analogy,  and  hsing  response  to  a  stimulus.  When  we  reason  by  analogy, 
we  group  things  by  comparing  their  general  characteristics;  and  when 
we  respond  to  stimuli,  we  formulate  our  ideas  according  to  the  subtle 
influences  we  receive.  The  hsing  is  the  result  of  our  responding  to  a 
stimulus,  and  the  pi  a  consequence  of  reasoning  by  analogy.  Formally, 
the  pi  is  a  linguistic  expression  charged  with  accumulated  indignation, 
and  the  hsing  is  an  admonition  expressed  through  an  array  of  parables.4 
Since  the  Ancient  Poets  had  to  treat  of  a  variety  of  situations  with 
ever-changing  significance,  they  needed  these  two  devices  to  express 
their  responses  to  them. 

The  parables  employed  in  the  hsing  appear  subtle,  but  they  are  so 
apparent!  They  may  sound  insignificant,  but  they  are  profound  in 
their  implications.  For  example,  in  the  "Kuan-chii"5  the  fishhawks 
know  a  formal  separation  of  the  sexes,  an  oblique  reference  to  the 
virtue  of  the  queen;  and  the  shih-chiu  bird6  [in  another  poem]  is 
chaste,  which  is  also  symbolic  of  the  character  of  the  royal  mate.  Do 

1  Metaphor  is  used  to  cover  both  simile  and  metaphor. 

2  See  note  2,  Chapter  V.  3  See  note  20,  Chapter  XVIII. 

4  Note  the  moralistic  conception  of  poetry  first  propounded  in  the  prefaces  of  the 
Boo\  of  Poetry:  the  "Main  Preface"  and  the  prefaces  to  individual  poems,  attributed  to 
Wei  Hung  of  the  Later  Han. 

5  The  "Kuan-chii"  is  the  first  poem  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  and  seems  to  be  a  marriage 
song.  But  it  is  traditionally  interpreted  to  be  a  poem  celebrating  the  virtue  of  the  bride 
of  King  Wen,  father  of  King  Wu,  the  founder  of  the  Chou  dynasty.  Chii-chiu,  tishhawks, 
are  taken  to  be  the  symbol  of  virtue,  because  they  are  believed  to  practice  a  formal 
separation  between  the  sexes,  i.e.,  to  have  a  sense  of  sexual  honor.  For  this  reason,  the 
poem  is  thought  to  allude  to  the  virtue  of  Queen  Wen. 

6  The  theme  of  another  poem  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  no.  12.  Shih-chiu,  thought  to  be 
doves  or  cuckoos,  are  believed  to  be  loyal  to  their  mates,  hence,  a  symbol  of  chastity. 


196  Metaphor  and  Allegory 

not  conjecture  about  these  birds,  for  what  is  intended  to  be  emphasized 
to  us  is  chastity;  and  do  not  let  these  birds  of  prey  distract  your  mind, 
because  the  important  thing  is  the  virtue  of  sexual  separation.  Such 
parables  are  like  the  first  rays  of  light  before  the  break  of  dawn,  still 
enveloped  in  ambiguity.  This  is  the  reason  why  commentaries  are 
required  to  make  the  meaning  clear. 

What  do  we  really  mean  by  pi}  A  description  of  things  used  to  stand 
for  ideas,  and  the  use  of  figures  of  speech  to  intimate  the  nature  of 
certain  facts.  Thus  gold  and  pewter  are  used  to  stand  for  illustrious 
virtue,  a  jade  tally  signifies  an  outstanding  man,7  a  caterpillar  means 
education,8  cicadas  and  grasshoppers  denote  howling  and  shouting,9 
washing  clothes  symbolizes  sadness  of  heart,10  and  the  rolling  up  of  a 
mat  is  used  as  a  figure  for  firmness  of  will:11  these  illustrate  the  mean- 
ing of  the  pi.  As  to  lines  such  as,  "Your  hemp  robe  is  like  snow,"12  or 
"The  two  outside  horses  go  as  if  they  were  dancing,"13  they  all  belong 
to  the  pi  category. 

When  King  Hsiang  of  Ch'u  trusted  in  the  words  of  the  sycophants, 
the  San-lii,14  filled  with  loyalty  and  moral  indignation,  created  the 
Sao  in  the  spirit  of  the  BooJ^  of  Poetry ;  the  Sao,  intended  as  a  remon- 
strance, employs  both  the  pi  and  the  hsing.15 

The  Han  dynasty  may  have  prospered  generally,  but  the  poets  were 
weak.  The  principle  of  remonstrance  was  forgotten,  and  the  meaning 
of  hsing  lost.  In  their  stead  we  find  the  fu,  or  narrative,  and  the  sung, 
or  sacrificial  song,  loud  in  chorus,  and  pi  forged  profusely  as  cloud 
patterns.  Such  confusion  and  haste  went  counter  to  the  principles  of  old. 

There  is  a  variety  of  ways  in  which  a  pi,  that  is,  a  metaphor,  may  be 

7  See  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  poems  nos.  55,  252. 

8  Ibid.,  no.  96.  "Ming-ling"  is  a  caterpillar  of  an  insect  identified  as  Heliothis  armigera. 

9  Ibid.,  no.  255.  10  Ibid.,  no.  26. 

11  Ibid.  Actually,  the  line  runs:  "My  heart  is  not  a  mat,  you  cannot  roll  it."  Rolling 
up  a  mat  would  seem  to  connote  the  opposite  of  firmness.  But  in  classical  allusions, 
Chinese  scholars  often  quote  out  of  context,  and  expect  the  reader  to  understand  the 
meaning  by  referring  in  his  own  mind  to  the  original  context  and  the  original  meaning. 

12  Ibid.,  no.  150.  13  Ibid.,  no.  78. 

14  The  office  Ch'u  Yuan  occupied  before  he  was  alienated.  The  function  of  the  office 
was  to  educate  the  young  members  of  the  three  royal  clans. 

15  For  Ch'u  Yuan  and  his  Li-sao,  see  Chapter  V  above. 


Metaphor  and  Allegory  197 

made :  it  may  employ  similarity  of  sound,  visual  resemblance,  compara- 
bility to  a  mental  content,  or  capability  of  being  illustrated  by  certain 
facts.  Sung  Yii,  in  his  "Kao-T'ang  fu,"  wrote:  "The  mourning  of  the 
branches  sounds  like  a  yii";  this  is  a  pi  comparing  sounds.16  Mei  Sheng 
said  in  his  "T'u-yiian,"  "Ablaze  in  confusion,  [the  birds]  look  like  dust 
in  the  midst  of  white  clouds";17  this  is  a  pi  comparing  appearances. 
Chia  I,  in  his  "Fu-niao  fu,"  said,  "Calamity  and  blessing  are  inter- 
twined like  the  strands  of  a  cord";  this  is  a  pi  comparing  a  physical 
pattern  with  a  pattern  of  events.  Wang  Pao's  "Tung-hsiao"  contains, 
[The  sound  of  a  flute]  "is  soft  and  warm,  like  the  voice  of  a  loving 
father  speaking  to  his  son";  this  is  a  pi  comparing  the  sounds  of  an 
instrument  with  the  feeling  of  the  heart.  Ma  Yung's  "Ch'ang-ti"  has 
these  lines:  [The  tune  of  the  long  horizontal  flute]  "is  rich  and  con- 
tinuous, like  the  eloquence  of  Fan  [Chii]  and  Ts'ai  [Tse]";18  this  is 
a  pi  comparing  the  wealth  of  a  sound  pattern  with  the  eloquence  of 
argument.  And  Chang  Heng,  in  his  "Nan-tu  fu,"  said,  "The  dancers 
rose  and  danced  a  Cheng  dance  which  was  like  the  drawing  of  a  silk 
thread  from  a  cocoon";19  this  is  a  pi  comparing  the  manners  of  things. 
Metaphors  like  these  are  the  chief  elements  in  tz'u20  and  fu.21  But  poets 
who  employed  this  pi  every  day  forgot  the  art  of  the  hsing.  They 
became  versed  in  the  insignificant  and  lost  sight  of  the  important.  This 
is  why  their  writing  never  equaled  that  of  the  Chou  period. 

As  for  Yang  [Hsiung],  Pan  [Ku],  Ts'ao  [Chih],  Liu  [Chen],  and 
their  group,  they  described  mountains  and  rivers,  and  the  patterns  of 
clouds  and  things.  In  these  descriptions  they  wove  metaphors  into 
beautiful  forms,  capable  of  startling  the  ears  and  bewitching  the  eyes 
of  the  reader.  This  is  their  achievement.  In  An-jen's  [or  P'an  Yueh's] 

16  Sung  Yu's  fu  is  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian.  For  yii,  see  note  10,  Chapter  XXXIII. 

17  Mei's  poem,  which  is  found  in  Ku-wen-yiian,  has,  instead  of  "Ablaze  in  confusion," 
"Swiftly  and  in  confusion." 

18  Both  Fan  and  Ts'ai  were  eloquent  public  speakers  of  the  Warring  States  period. 

19  This  piece  and  the  previous  one  are  both  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian.  The  line  quoted 
here  is  an  abbreviation.  The  original  runs:  "(They)  sat  singing  the  southern  songs,  and 
rose  to  dance  the  Cheng  dance,  which  was  like  the  soaring  of  white  cranes  and  the 
drawing  of  a  silk  thread  from  a  cocoon." 

20  See  Chapter  V  above.  21  See  chapter  VIII  above. 


198  Metaphor  and  Allegory 

"Ying-fu,"  the  line  "Shooting  gold  in  a  sandy  beach,"  and  in  Chi-ying's 
[or  Chang  Han's]  miscellaneous  poems,  the  line  "Green  branches  look 
like  a  bundle  of  jade"  are  both  in  the  true  spirit  of  the  pi.22 

Throughout  all  the  variety  of  the  pi,  the  excellence  lies  in  the  aptness 
of  the  representation.  A  writer  is  valueless  if,  trying  to  carve  a  swan, 
he  succeeds  only  in  approximating  a  duck. 

The  Tsan: 

The  pi  and  the  hsing  of  the  Ancient  Poets 

Are  perfect  perceptions  resulting  from  their  responses  to  the  stimuli 
of  facts. 

Things  which  are  as  far  apart  as  Hu  [in  the  north]  and  Yiieh  [in  the 
south] 

May  through  their  similarities  be  as  close  as  the  liver  and  the  gall.23 

For  a  writer  to  be  able  to  be  faithful  to  the  original  in  his  representation 
depends  on  the  working  of  his  mind; 

And  in  the  forging  of  language  he  must  be  both  firm  and  daring. 

In  creating  lyrics  and  poems,  the  mass  of  materials  should  be  so  organ- 
ized as  to  flow  as  smoothly  as  a  stream. 


XXXVII.  Embellishment  as  Description 


"What  is  beyond  shape  is  called  tao,  and  what  is  within  shape  is  called 
ch'irx  [Ch'i  means  literally  instrument,  the  tangible,  hence,  the  phe- 
nomenal.] It  is  difficult  to  depict  the  noumenal  tao,  for  even  words 
which  have  been  refined  cannot  approximate  it;  but  the  phenomenal 
ch'i  are  easy  to  describe,  for  their  forms  can  be  accurately  pictured 

22  Both  P'an's  and  Chang's  poems  are  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian.  The  theme  of  P'an's  fu 
is  the  fireflies,  which  appear  like  shooting  gold  in  a  sandy  beach. 

23  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  12/5/7:  "From  the  point  of  view  of  difference,  the  liver  and 
gall  are  as  far  apart  as  Ch'u  and  Yiieh."  Liu  Hsieh  made  use  of  this  reference  with  some 
modifications. 

1  Chou-i  vin-te,  44/hsi  shang/12. 


Embellishment  as  Description  199 

through  vigorous  language.  Amount  of  talent,  whether  great  or  small, 
has  no  bearing  on  this;  it  is  due  to  the  nature  of  the  tao,  or  principle, 
and  the  ch'iy  or  particular  things,  themselves.  [In  the  phenomenal 
world]  all  things  from  heaven  and  earth  downward  partake  of  sound 
and  shape.  Whenever  language  is  used  to  describe  them,  there  is  always 
embellishment  in  the  description.  Even  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  and  the 
Boo\  of  History,  whose  language  is  marked  with  classic  grace,  and 
may  serve  as  the  standard  for  the  whole  world  to  look  up  to,  we  find 
exaggerated  accounts  of  facts,  expressed  in  highly  ornamented  language. 
For  example:  to  describe  height,  we  have:  "Lofty  is  [the  Sacred  Moun- 
tain]; grandly  it  reaches  to  heaven";2  to  describe  narrowness,  we  have: 
"[Who  says  the  River  is  broad?]  It  is  not  even  wide  enough  for  a 
knifelike  canoe."3  Referring  to  a  great  number,  we  have:  "His  sons 
and  grandsons  will  be  a  thousand,  a  hundred  thousand";4  and  referring 
to  a  small  number,  we  have:  "Of  the  people  [of  Chou]  there  was  not 
one  body  left  undamaged."5  In  describing  [how  the  great  flood]  inun- 
dated mountains,  [the  Boo\  of  History]  talks  about  its  "overflowing 
heaven";6  and  in  speaking  of  the  mutiny  [of  the  Shang  troops  against 
their  own  ruler],  it  says  that  "pestles  floated"  in  the  bloodshed.7  The 
language  in  all  these  cases  is  certainly  exaggerated;  but  it  does  not  do 
any  violence  to  the  ideas.  The  crying  of  an  owl  has  always  been  ugly; 
could  its  cry  become  pleasant  because  it  settled  in  the  grove  by  the 
semicircular  moat?8  The  t'u  plants  taste  bitter;  could  their  taste  become 
sweet  because  they  grew  on  the  Chou  plain?9  Yes,  for  in  these  cases 
the  real  intention  is  to  praise,10  and  the  distortion  of  the  ideas  serves 

2  The  Boo\  of  Poetry,  no.  259.  Karlgren's  translation.  3  Ibid.,  no.  61. 

4  Ibid.,  no.  249.  5  Ibid.,  no.  258.  6  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  1/0299-0302. 

7  Ibid.,  23/0343-0355.  In  the  account  of  King  Wu's  campaign  against  the  last  ruler 
of  the  Shang  dynasty,  it  is  said  that  when  the  Shang  troops  revolted  there  was  so  much 
blood  shed  that  pestles  floated  in  it. 

8  The  Boo\  of  Poetry,  no.  299:  "Fluttering  are  those  flying  owls,  they  settle  in  the 
grove  by  the  semicircular  moat;  they  eat  the  fruits  of  our  mulberry  trees,  and  comfort 
us  with  their  fine  note." 

9  Ibid.,  no.  237:  "The  plain  of  Chou  was  rich  and  ample:  even  the  ch'in  and  t'u 
were  sweet  like  honey-cakes." 

10  Poem  299  is  in  praise  of  a  marquis  of  Lu,  celebrating  his  interest  in  the  state  college. 
symbolized  by  the  semicircular  moat.  And  poem  237  praises  the  ancestors  of  the  Chou, 
who,  through  thick  and  thin,  had  made  the  plain  of  Chou  inhabitable. 


200  Embellishment  as  Description 

as  a  kind  of  ornament.  The  great  Sage's  recorded  remarks  may  be 
treated  as  principles,  expressed  by  Mencius  in  the  following  words: 
"Those  who  comment  upon  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  should  not  because  of 
one  term  misconstrue  the  meaning  of  a  sentence;  and  should  not 
because  of  a  sentence  misconstrue  the  original  idea."11 

Lavish  exaggeration  in  description  was  first  employed  in  the  works 
of  Sung  Yii  and  Ching  Ch'a;  and  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju,  who  gave 
[Emperor  Wu  himself]  a  sense  of  flying  on  the  wind,12  contributed  to 
the  ascendancy  of  literary  oddities  and  excesses.  In  his  "Shang-lin  fu"  he 
said  that  shooting  stars  and  an  arching  rainbow  entered  the  window 
of  the  Shang-lin  palace;  and  elsewhere,  in  a  description  of  a  successful 
hunt,  he  wrote  that  fei-lien13  and  ckiao-ming1*  were  caught.15  Yang 
Hsiung,  following  in  his  wake,  spoke  of  the  precious  in  his  "Kan-ch'iian 
fu"  by  borrowing  the  gems  of  jade  trees,  and  of  height  by  referring  to 
the  fall  of  ghosts  and  deities.16  As  to  [Pan  Ku's  mention  of]  the  one- 
eyed  fish  swimming  in  pairs  in  his  "Hsi-tu  fu,"17  and  [Chang  Heng's 
mention  of]  the  sea  deity,18  in  the  light  of  reason  there  is  no  possible 
way  to  prove  them,  but  as  cases  of  exaggeration,  they  have  not  gone 
to  extremes.  When  Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung],  in  his  "Yu-lieh  fu," 
flogged  Fu-fei  to  feed  Ch'u  Yiian,19  or  when  Chang  Heng,  in  his 

11  Mengtzu  yin-te,  36/52/4. 

12  See  note  2,  Chapter  XXVIII. 

13  Fei-lien  is  a  mythological  bird,  with  the  body  of  a  bird  and  the  head  of  a  deer, 
known  as  the  dragon-sparrow. 

14  Another  mythological  bird,  resembling  a  phoenix. 

15  "Shang-lin  fu"  is  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 

16  "Kan-ch'iian  fu"  is  also  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 

17  Following  Chi's  emendation  of  reading  "Hsi-tu"  for  "Tung-tu,"  which  is  ap- 
parently a  mistake.  See  the  Wen-hsiian. 

18  Also  found  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 

19  Fu-fei  was  said  to  be  the  daughter  of  Fu-hsi,  a  mythological  character.  She  drowned 
in  the  Lo  River,  thus  becoming  Goddess  of  Lo.  Ch'u  Yiian  mentioned  her  as  one  of  the 
beauties  he  wanted,  but  failed  to  get.  In  the  original  piece  the  line  runs:  [Emperor  Wu's 
hunting  party]  "flogged  Fu-fei  and  fed  Ch'u  Yiian,  P'eng,  and  Hsu."  See  Wen-hsiian, 
chiian  8.  Yang  Hsiung  here  tried  to  point  out  the  extravagant  scale  of  the  emperor's 
hunting  expedition.  He  disturbed  the  Lo  River  in  the  north,  of  which  Fu-fei  was  the 
deity,  and  reached  the  banks  of  the  rivers  in  the  south  where  Ch'u  Yiian,  P'eng  Hsien, 
and  Wu  Tzu-hsii  drowned.  Flogging  and  feeding  are  figures  for  reaching  these  rivers. 
Liu  Hsieh  disregarded  the  original  context  and  combined  the  two  instances,  the  flogging 
and  the  feeding,  as  if  the  poet  was  flogging  Fu-fei  to  feed  Ch'u  Yiian,  omitting,  in  the 


Embellishment  as  Description  201 

"Yii-lieh  fu,"  exiled  the  water  deity  to  the  desert  in  the  north,20  they 
were  loose  indeed  in  emptily  using  these  excessive  descriptions,  for 
neither  was  the  beautiful  Goddess  of  Lo  a  spirit  of  the  mountains  and 
rivers,  nor  was  the  water  deity  the  spirit  of  hills  and  marshes.21  These 
are  cases  in  which  the  effort  to  exaggerate  the  majestic  air  and  adorn 
[ ]22  has  resulted  in  incongruity  and  inconsistent  statements. 

[There  are  writings  which]  describe  the  appearances  of  mountains 
and  seas,  or  body  forth  the  forms  of  palaces  and  temples;  they  make 
them  stand  in  craggy  height,  some  glimmering  and  some  glowing; 
ablaze  with  brilliance,  lofty  in  form,  these  almost  come  to  life.  Such 
extraordinary  spectacles  are  achieved  by  exaggeration  and  adornment. 
Young  talents,  full  of  admiration  for  physical  vitality  and  ambitious 
for  fame,  are  thinking  of  real  soaring  when  they  think  of  flying,  and 
feel  ashamed  of  tolerating  the  least  constraint  in  step  when  they  think 
of  galloping.  When  they  describe  something  brilliant  and  dazzling, 
not  even  the  colors  of  spring  are  good  enough  to  present  its  beauty; 
and  when  they  portray  a  state  of  blight  and  decay,  not  even  a  winter 
valley  is  adequate  to  indicate  its  desolation;  when  they  speak  of  happi- 
ness, we  hear  laughter  in  the  very  midst  of  their  words;  and  when  they 
speak  of  sorrow,  sound  is  mixed  with  tears.  Writings  like  these  can 
certainly  unfold  what  is  hidden  and  put  to  flight  what  has  been  earth- 
bound;  they  open  the  eyes  of  the  blind  and  startle  the  ears  of  the  deaf. 

But  when  adornment  goes  to  extremes,  sounds  swarm  disorderly  in 
the  mind;  and  when  exaggeration  exceeds  what  is  appropriate,  there 
is  incongruity  in  both  name  and  fact.  If  one  can  appreciate  the  degree 
of  exaggeration  employed  in  the  Poetry  and  History,  and  stop  short  of 
the  excessive  elements  in  the  writings  of  Yang  [Hsiung]  and  [Ssu-]ma 

process,  the  other  two  heroes  who  also  drowned  themselves  in  the  water.  Liu's  chief 
purpose  was,  of  course,  to  show  the  exaggerated  embellishment  of  Yang  Hsiung. 

20  Chang's  fu  is  found  in  the  Ch'iian-hou-han  wen  in  fragments.  The  line  cited  here 
is  not  found  there. 

21  The  theme  of  these  two  fu  is  hunting,  which  is  believed  to  be  often  obstructed  by 
the  spirits  of  mountains  and  rivers.  Since  neither  the  Goddess  of  Lo  nor  the  water  deity 
was  such  a  spirit,  they  could  do  nothing  about  the  hunting.  Hence,  Liu  Hsieh  speaks 
of  their  use  as  empty  or  purposeless. 

22  The  text  is  corrupt  here. 


202  Embellishment  as  Description 

[Hsiang-ju],  so  that  exaggeration  is  held  within  proper  limits,  and 
adornment  does  not  involve  falsehood,  then  he  will  certainly  achieve 
true  excellence. 

The  Tsan: 
Exaggeration  and  adornment  have  their  function: 
When  has  literature  ever  followed  a  straitened  path? 
The  sweep  of  words  is  always  likened  to  the  movement  of  a  great  roc 

[across  the  sky],23 
And  the  expansion  of  vitality  to  the  gradual  rising  of  geese. 
Pour  out  the  sea  to  get  the  pearls, 
And  level  Mount  K'un  for  jade:24 

These  figures  are  exaggerations,  but  they  are  not  excessive, 
Extravagant  they  certainly  are,  but  still  faultless. 


XXXVIII.  Factual  Allusion  and  Textual  Reference 

Factual  allusion  and  textual  reference  are  factors  outside  the  realm  of 
literary  composition.  In  a  factual  allusion,  one  adduces  a  fact  to  support 
some  generalization;  and  in  a  textual  reference,  one  cites  an  ancient 
text  to  support  a  statement.  When  King  Wen  wrote  propositions  for 
the  lines  of  the  hexagrams  which  he  had  fixed,  in  his  comment  on  the 
nine-in-the-third-place  line  in  the  hexagram  chi-chi  he  alluded  to  the 
military  expedition  of  Kao-tsung  in  the  past;1  and  in  his  comment  on 
the  six-in-the-fifth-place  line  of  hexagram  ming-iy  he  mentioned  the 

23  The  roc  is  a  fabulous  bird  of  enormous  size,  flying  at  a  height  of  90,000  //'.  See 
Chuangtzu  yin-te,  1/1/3. 

24  Mount  K'un  is  famous  for  jade  buried  in  it.  Its  full  name  is  K'un-kang. 

1  A  hexagram  consists  of  six  lines.  The  lines  are  of  two  kinds:  the  yin,  i.e.,  a  broken 

line  like ,  and  the  yang,  i.e.,  an  unbroken  line  like  —  .  These  lines  are  numbered 

upward  from  the  bottom.  The  yin  lines  are  known  as  sixes  and  the  yang  as  nines. 
The  first  yang  line  in  a  hexagram  is  called  the  "nine  in  the  first  place,"  and  the  first 
yin  line,  the  "six  in  the  first  place,"  etc.  Hexagram  chi-chi  is  number  63  of  the  64 
hexagrams.  "Kao-tsung"  was  one  of  the  Yin  rulers,  generally  known  as  Wu-ting,  who 
reigned  from  1324  to  1266  B.C.  During  his  reign  he  led  an  expedition  against  the  devil's 


Allusion  and  Reference  203 

steadfastness  of  Prince  Chi  in  recent  times.2  In  these  examples  facts 
are  adduced  to  illustrate  certain  ideas.  [In  the  Boo\  of  History],  when 
Lord  Yin  led  his  expedition  against  Hsi  and  Ho,3  teachings  from  the 
Cheng-tien  were  quoted  [by  Lord  Yin];4  and  King  P'an-keng  repeated 
to  his  people  the  sayings  of  Ch'ih-jen.5  In  these  cases,  maxims  of  antiq- 
uity are  cited  as  general  principles.  It  is  then  the  rule  of  the  Sages  and 
their  general  practice  in  the  Classics  to  cite  old  maxims  to  clarify  general 
principles  and  to  allude  to  sociohistorical  facts  to  illustrate  ideas. 

The  Hsiang  commentary  to  hexagram  Ta-ch'u6  says:  "The  superior 
man  acquaints  himself  with  many  sayings  of  antiquity  and  many  deeds 
of  the  past,"  so  it  is  possible  that  these  might  also  be  encompassed 
within  the  scope  of  literary  writing.7  Ch'ii  [Yuan]  and  Sung  [Yii]  are 
known  to  have  followed  the  example  of  the  Ancient  Poets  in  their 
poetry;  but  on  close  examination  we  find  that,  although  they  cited  the 
Ancient  Poems,  they  did  not  follow  the  original  texts.  However,  Chia  I, 
in  his  "Fu[-niao]  fu,"  pioneered  with  his  direct  quotation  from  the 
Ho-\uan  tzuf  and  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju,  in  his  "Shang-lin  fu,"  quoted 

country,  that  is,  the  Huns,  and  conquered  them.  See  Chou-i  yin-te,  38/63/3. 

2  Ming-i  is  hexagram  36.  Prince  Chi,  a  relative  of  the  evil  tyrant  Chou-hsin,  the  last 
ruler  of  the  Shang  dynasty,  maintained  his  firm  conviction  despite  his  cruel  treatment 
at  the  hands  of  the  tyrant.  Ibid.,  23/36/5  hsiang. 

3  See  the  "Yin-cheng"  (The  expedition  of  Yin),  Chapter  9  in  the  Book,  of  History. 
Hsi  and  Ho  failed  in  their  duties  as  astronomers  because  of  their  indulgence  in  drinking. 
Hence  the  punitive  campaign. 

4  Cheng-tien  is  believed  to  be  a  work  of  government  institutions  in  the  Hsia  dynasty. 
The  teachings  cited:  "When  they  anticipate  the  time,  let  them  be  put  to  death  without 
mercy;  when  they  are  behind  the  time,  let  them  be  put  to  death  without  mercy."  James 
Legge,  The  Chinese  Classics,  Vol.  Ill,  Part  I,  p.  166.  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  9/0162-0177. 
"They"  refers  to  astronomers.  They  were  held  responsible  for  the  accurate  calculation 
of  the  appearance  of  the  heavenly  phenomena. 

5  P'an-keng  was  a  ruler  of  the  Yin.  Ch'ih-jen 's  sayings:  "In  men,  we  seek  individuals 
of  old  families;  in  vessels,  we  do  not  seek  old  ones,  but  new."  Legge,  The  Chinese 
Classics,  Vol.  Ill,  Part  I,  pp.  229-30.  Shang-shu  t'ung-chien,  16/0412-0426.  For  "in- 
dividuals of  old  familiies"  Legge  also  suggests  "old,  experienced  men,"  which  seems  to 
be  a  better  rendering. 

6  Ta-ch'u  is  hexagram  26.  For  the  quotation  see  Chou-i  yin-te,  17/26/hsiang,  and 
also  I -chin  g,  I,  ill. 

7  "These"  refers  to  factual  allusion  and  textual  reference,  which  at  the  outset  of  the 
chapter  were  considered  as  being  outside  of  literary  composition. 

8  By  a  Chou  author,  whose  name  is  not  known.  The  work  is  a  mixture  of  Taoism 
and  legalism. 


204  Allusion  and  Reference 

from  a  letter  written  by  Li  Ssu.9  But  these  examples  occur  only  once 
in  ten  thousand  instances. 

By  the  time  Yang  Hsiung  quoted  passages  from  the  Boo\  of  Poetry 
and  the  Boo\  of  History  in  writing  his  "Pai-kuan  chen,"  and  Liu  Hsin 
quoted  from  past  histories  in  writing  his  "Sui-ch'u  fu,"  writers  had 
come  gradually  to  employ  such  allusions  and  references  fairly  com- 
monly. And  when  Ts'ui  [Yin,  ?-92],  Pan  [Ku],  Chang  [Heng],  and 
Ts'ai  [Yung]  began  to  select  passages  from  the  Classics  and  histories, 
spreading  their  flowers  and  fruits  far  and  wide,  and  established  their 
reputations  through  writing,  they  became  models  who  were  imitated 
by  later  scholars. 

Although  ginger  and  cassia  need  soil  to  grow,  their  bitter  taste  comes 
from  their  nature;  similarly,  although  literary  composition  requires 
hard  study,  real  ability  to  compose  comes  out  of  one's  natural  endow- 
ment. Talent  issues  from  within,  and  study  is  achieved  by  external 
effort.  Sometimes  one  is  erudite  and  yet  lacking  in  talent,  and  some- 
times one  is  talented  and  yet  a  pauper  in  learning.  Poverty  in  learning 
makes  a  writer  hesitant  in  alluding  to  facts  to  prove  his  ideas;  while  a 
lack  of  talent  results  in  a  laborious  effort  to  coin  phrases  to  express 
adequately  the  feelings.  This  illustrates  the  distinction  between  what 
proceeds  from  within  and  what  is  achieved  by  external  effort. 

Thus,  in  literary  writing,  the  mind  operates  in  harmony  with  the 
writing  brush,  with  talent  playing  the  part  of  leader,  and  learning 
the  role  of  its  assistant.  When  leader  and  assistant  work  in  perfect 
harmony,  vivid  literary  patterns  will  emerge;  but  if  either  talent  or 
learning  is  one-sided  or  narrow,  the  result,  although  it  may  have  artistry, 
will  seldom  be  a  work  of  high  quality.  Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung], 
with  all  his  talent,  said  of  himself  in  a  memorial  that  he  was  a  man 
deficient  in  learning,  and  that  his  literary  achievement  was  the  result 
of  the  study  he  did  in  the  Stone  Chamber.10  That  the  inner  and  the 

9  Flourished  in  the  latter  part  of  the  third  century  B.C.  See  D.  Bodde's  China's  First 
Unifier. 

10  The  Stone  Chamber  was  built  by  Hsiao  Ho,  the  first  prime  minister  of  the  Han 


Allusion  and  Reference  205 

outer  must  supplement  each  other  is  a  rule  that  is  true  for  all  times. 
In  speaking  of  the  writing  of  Master  Chang,  Wei-wu  [or  Ts'ao  Ts'ao] 
said  that  his  work  was  poor;  for  Chang  was  superficial  in  his  scholar- 
ship and  limited  in  his  literary  experience,  and  his  only  specialty  was 
plagiarizing  the  insignificant  writings  of  Ts'ui  and  Tu.  Not  every- 
thing he  wrote  could  be  inquired  into  too  closely,  for  if  it  were,  he 
could  not  have  identified  its  original  source.11  This  is  the  result  of  the 
fault  of  being  ill-informed. 

The  Classics  and  ancient  historical  records  are  deep  and  profound, 
and  they  are  voluminous  in  quantity.  They  are  the  profound  source  of 
all  writings,  and  the  spiritual  realm  in  which  talent  and  imagination 
make  their  abode.  Writers  like  Yang  [Hsiung],  Pan  [Ku],  and  others 
all  drew  upon  them  as  their  sources.  In  them  they  tilled  and  farmed 
with  all  their  might,  and  they  fished  and  hunted  as  they  wished. 
Anyone  who  is  able  to  hold  a  knife  and  do  some  cutting  will  surely  be 
among  those  who  enjoy  the  riches  of  these  sources.  Therefore,  the 
development  of  a  writer's  talent  depends  on  the  breadth  of  his  literary 
experience.  One  piece  of  fur  from  under  a  fox's  foreleg  will  not  keep 
one  warm,  nor  could  one  be  satisfied  until  he  had  eaten  thousands 
of  chicken  feet.  So  in  acquiring  learning  the  writer  must  read  widely 
and  in  referring  to  facts  he  must  be  concise;  in  organization  he  must 
exercise  his  logical  sense  and  in  reasoning  he  must  be  clear  and  accurate. 
When  all  these  good  points  meet  in  a  writer,  both  his  inner  and  his 
external  potentialities  will  have  been  realized  to  the  full.  Liu  Shao,  in 
his  "Chao-tu  fu,"  said,  "A  retainer  of  Prince  [P'ing-yiian]  yelled  at 
strong  Ch'u  and  forced  its  king  to  take  oath,  dipping  his  finger  in 
blood;  and  a  subordinate  official  in  the  employ  of  a  eunuch  chided  the 
powerful  Ch'in  and  made  its  king  play  the  earthen  fou."12  Such  a  use 

dynasty,  to  house  the  maps,  charts,  and  documents  he  collected  from  the  Ch'in  palace. 
The  Chamber  became  an  imperial  library,  where  were  deposited  all  literary  works 
obtained  in  subsequent  reigns.  Yang  Hsiung's  statement  is  found  in  his  letter  to  Liu 
Hsin,  now  preserved  in  the  Ku-wen-yiian,  chiian  10. 

11  Wei-wu's  statements  are  not  identifiable,  and  it  is  impossible  to  determine  who 
Chang,  Ts'ui,  and  Tu  were. 

12  Fragments  of  "Chao-tu  fu"  are  included  in  Yen  Ko-chun's  Ch'iian  san-\uo  wen, 
chiian  32.  These  historical  facts  are  mentioned  in  the  Shih-chi.  See  Shih-chi  chi  chu-shih 


206  Allusion  and  Reference 

of  historical  facts  is  both  entirely  reasonable  and  very  significant.  For 
when  facts  are  adduced  appropriately  to  make  a  point,  these  facts, 
though  not  especially  important  in  themselves,  will  yield  real  fruit. 
Their  function  may  be  compared  to  that  of  the  linchpin  of  a  wheel 
which,  though  only  an  inch  in  length,  controls  the  whole  wheel,  or  to 
the  bolt  of  a  gate  which,  though  only  a  foot  in  length,  controls  the  gate. 
When  subtle  words  and  fitting  facts  are  misplaced  so  that  their  signifi- 
cance is  lost,  it  is  like  using  gold  and  jade  to  decorate  one's  legs  or 
applying  cosmetics  to  one's  chest.  When  a  writer's  allusions  to  past 
events  are  appropriate  to  the  situation  in  question,  it  is  as  if  he  himself 
has  created  them.  But  if  the  facts  alluded  to  are  out  of  harmony  with 
the  context,  their  use  will  always  be  a  blemish. 

Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  was  the  outstanding  talent  of  them  all. 
But  in  his  letter  to  K'ung  Chang  he  said,  "The  song  of  Ke-tien  was 
sung  by  a  thousand  voices,  and  those  who  chimed  in  numbered  ten 
thousand;  and  for  this  reason,  people  did  not  value  the  ancient  music 
of  Shao-hsiaP  This  is  a  mistaken  allusion,  for  the  song  of  Ke-tien  was 
sung  by  a  chorus  of  three  men.  And  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju,  in  his  "Shang- 
lin  fu,"  said,  "There  was  the  dance  of  T'ao-t'ang  and  the  song  of 
Ke-tien,  which  was  sung  by  a  thousand  and  chimed  in  with  by  ten 
thousand."  The  "one  thousand  singers"  and  "ten  thousand  chimers-in" 
are  products  of  Hsiang-ju's  own  imagination,  and  a  flight  too  far  afield 
of  the  original  song  of  Ke-tien;  to  exaggerate  three  into  ten  thousand 
is  loose  reporting  and  irresponsible  rendering,  clearly  an  absurdity.13 

The  "Yiian-k'uei,"  a  poem  on  a  garden  sunflower,  by  Lu  Chi,  runs: 

[Things]  shelter  their  feet  by  the  same  instinct, 
But  each  has  a  unique  life  pattern  which  differs  from  ten 
thousand  others. 

The  sunflower's  ability  to  protect  its  feet  was  cited  [by  Confucius]  to 


ts'ung-ho  yin-te,  76/3b  and  15/3613.  The  name  of  the  retainer  is  Mao  Sui,  and  the  name 
of  the  subordinate  official  is  Lin  Hsiang-ju.  Fou  is  a  musical  instrument  made  of 
earthenware.  "Dipping  a  finger  in  blood"  means  taking  oath  at  the  signing  of  a  treaty. 

13  Ssu-ma   Hsiang-ju   was   the  first  one   to   make   this   exaggerated   statement,   which 
was  later  quoted  by  Ts'ao  Chih. 


Allusion  and  Reference  207 

ridicule  the  artless  Pao-chuang[-tzu],14  and  that  creepers  know  how 
to  shelter  their  roots  was  stated  by  Yueh  Yii.15  So  if  [Lu  Chi]  meant 
to  liken  the  sunflower  to  the  creepers,  his  allusion  is  a  mistake;  and  if 
he  thought  that  shelter  was  a  better  term  to  use  than  protect,  then  he  lost 
sight  of  the  true  nature  of  the  original  situations  in  his  modification.16 
This  is  a  case  of  very  slovenly  thinking.  When  men  as  brilliant  and 
keen  as  Tzu-chien  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  or  as  penetrating  and  meticulous 
as  Shih-heng  [or  Lu  Chi]  could  not  avoid  making  mistakes  of  this 
kind,  we  may  as  well  save  our  censure  in  a  case  like  that  of  Ts'ao  Jen, 
who  made  a  mistake  in  alluding  to  Kao-t'ang.17 

An  artificer  makes  judgments  about  timber,  and  a  literary  man 
makes  choices  among  the  Classics.  Good  timber  is  transformed  into 
definite  form  by  the  application  of  an  ax;  appropriate  facts  are  turned 
into  a  part  of  a  literary  work  through  the  exercise  of  knife  and  brush. 
May  scholars,  whose  function  it  is  to  think,  be  worthy  of  their  names 
in  the  face  of  the  artificer! 

The  Tsan: 

Profound  and  rich  are  the  Classics  and  ancient  texts, 

Their  language  is  exquisite  and  their  ideas  have  far-reaching  impli- 
cations, 

14  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  247/Ch'eng  17/5  Tso:  "Confucius  said,  Tao- 
chuang-tzu  did  not  have  even  the  instinct  of  a  sunflower,  for  even  a  sunflower  is  able 
to  protect  its  feet.''  "  Confucius  made  this  remark  when  he  heard  that  Pao-chuang-tzu's 
legs  had  been  cut  off  by  the  Duke  of  Ch'i  because  of  a  charge  of  implication  in  a  certain 
court  intrigue  of  which  Pao  was  unable  to  clear  himself.   [Italics  mine. — V.Y.S.] 

15  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  155 /Wen  7/5  Tso:  "Duke  Chao  [of  Sung]  was 
about  to  dispose  of  the  princes.  Yueh  Yii  said,  'This  is  not  right.  The  royal  clans  are  the 
branches  and  leaves  of  the  royal  house.  Should  they  be  disposed  of,  there  would  be 
nothing  to  shelter  its  roots.  Even  creepers  know  how  to  shelter  their  trunks  and  roots, 
.  .  .  how  much  more  do  we  expect  a  ruler  of  a  state  to  be  able  to  do  so.'  "  [Italics 
mine.— V.Y.S.] 

16  To  keep  the  allusion  free  from  confusion,  instead  of  "shelter  their  feet,"  Lu  Chi 
should  have  said,  "protect  their  feet,"  because  "protect"  was  originally  used  with  feet 
in  a  situation  when  the  sunflower  was  cited  as  a  comparison.  Lu's  modification  serves 
only  to  confuse  the  picture. 

17  Ts'ao  Jen  should  be  Ts'ao  Hung,  who,  in  his  letter  to  Wei  Wen-ti,  or  Ts'ao  P'ei, 
said,  "It  is  said  that  people  who  pass  by  Kao-t'ang  sing  in  the  manner  of  Wang  Pao." 
According  to  Mencius,  it  was  Mien  Chii,  and  not  Wang  Pao,  who  was  a  singer  at 
Kao-t'ang,  and  whose  song  everyone  wished  to  learn.  See  Mengtzu  yin-te,  48/6B/6. 


208  Allusion  and  Reference 

Their  realm  is  vast  as  rivers  and  seas, 

And  fruitful  as  Mount  K'un  and  Forest  Teng;18 

They   are   [filled  with  literary   allusions   and  timber]   for   a  literary 

carpenter  to  choose  and  take, 
And  jade  and  pearls  in  abundance  as  gifts. 

To  be  able  to  use  the  words  of  others  as  if  they  were  one's  own  creation 
Is  to  have  perfect  understanding  of  the  past. 


XXXIX.  Philology  and  Choice  of  Words' 


When  the  array  of  written  signs  was  complete,  the  practice  of  knot 
tying  was  discontinued;  it  was  the  markings  of  birds  which  showed 
the  way  toward  the  creation  of  characters.  These  signs  and  characters 
make  up  the  external  appearances  of  our  speech  and  are  the  dwelling 
place  of  literary  form.  When  Minister  Ts'ang  Chieh  first  devised  them, 
ghosts  cried  and  heaven  rained  grain  [as  an  omen  of  the  power  of  the 
characters].2  The  Yellow  Emperor,  through  their  use,  made  officials 
fulfill  their  duties  and  chronicled  the  conditions  of  the  people  in  bold 
relief.  According  to  the  principles  established  by  the  early  kings,  all 
characters  ought  to  be  written  in  the  same  style.  And  royal  emissaries 
were  sent  out  to  record  opinions  and  usage  among  the  people,  for  the 
purpose  of  standardizing  the  script  and  pronunciation.  In  the  Chou-li 
(Book  of  Chou  institutions)  there  is  mentioned  Pao-shih,  whose  duty 

18  For  Mount  K'un,  see  note  24,  Chapter  XXXVII.  Forest  Teng  is  a  legendary  forest 
mentioned  in  the  Huai-nan-tzu,  "Tsui-hsing":  "K'ua-fu  [a  spiritual  beast]  threw  away 
his  staff,  which  turned  into  Forest  Teng." 

1  The  first  part  of  this  chapter  is  based  on  the  "Epilogue"  to  the  Shuo-wen,  which 
is  a  lexicon  by  a  Han  scholar  named  Hsu  Shen.  The  book  was  completed  in  A.D.  100. 

2  Ts'ang  Chieh,  a  minister  of  the  Yellow  Emperor,  was  credited  with  the  invention 
of  characters.  In  the  "Pen-ching-hsun"  of  the  Huai-nan  tzu  it  is  said  that  when  Ts'ang 
Chieh  invented  characters,  heaven  rained  grains  and  ghosts  cried  at  night.  Wang  Ch'ung, 
a  Han  scholar  and  a  naturalist,  convincingly  refuted  this  statement  which  suggested  the 
evil  effect  of  the  invention  of  characters.  See  his  Lun-heng,  "Kan-hsu  p'ien"  (Chu-tzu 
chi-ch'eng  ed.),  p.  52. 


Philology  and  Choice  of  Words  209 

it  is  to  teach  the  six  lexigraphic  principles.3  When  the  Ch'in4  [autocrat] 
put  the  old  texts  to  the  fire,5  it  was  the  government  officials  who  were 
made  teachers  instead.6  Prime  Minister  Li  Ssu  created  Ch'in's  chuan 
or  "seal  style"  by  modifying  the  old  script,  which  had  been  devised 
by  Historian  Chou  [of  King  Hsiian  of  Chou,  827-782  B.C.];  later 
Ch'eng  Miao  created  what  is  known  as  the  li  style.7  Since  that  time  the 
ancient  script  has  been  abandoned.  In  the  code  compiled  during  the 
first  years  of  the  Han,  the  rules  governing  character  writing  are  clearly 
published.  The  grand  historian,  in  his  instruction  of  the  pupils,  taught 
them  and  examined  them  on  the  six  styles.8  And  officials  and  others 
who  made  mistakes  in  writing  characters  in  their  memorials  were 
customarily  impeached  and  punished.  For  example,  Shih  Chien,  miss- 
ing a  stroke  in  the  character  ma  [horse,  in  his  memorial  to  the  throne], 
was  afraid  of  the  death  penalty.9  Although  this  was  because  he  was  a 
cautious  man,  it  also  indicated  that  the  character  writing  was  con- 
sidered of  great  importance  at  the  time.  During  the  reign  of  Emperor 
Wu  [140-87  B.C.],  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju  composed  the  lexicon  Fan- 
chiang  p'ien.  During  the  reigns  of  Emperors  Hsiian  [73-49  B.C.]  and 
P'ing  [A.D.  1-5],10  attempts  were  made  to  collect  philological  works. 
Chang  Ch'ang  permanently  standardized  the  correct  pronunciation, 

3  These  principles  are:  pictographs,  simple  ideographs,  compound  ideographs,  loan 
characters,  phonetic  compounds,  and  derivative  characters.  See  Y.  R.  Chao,  Mandarin 
Primer  (Harvard  University  Press,  1948),  pp.  60-63. 

4  The  first  dynasty  under  which  China  was  unified. 

5  This  happened  in  the  year  213  B.C.  The  first  emperor  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty  was 
intent  on  standardizing  not  only  weights  and  measures  and  other  more  tangible  aspects 
of  the  life  of  the  people,  but  sought  also  to  unify  thought  by  doing  away  with  all  books 
which  might  for  one  reason  or  another  challenge  his  authority. 

6  Not  all  books  were  burned.  Books  spared  were  housed  in  the  imperial  library.  The 
people  were  forbidden  to  keep  books  in  their  homes,  on  pain  of  death.  If  they  wished 
to  learn,  they  had  to  go  to  the  government.  A  neat  method  of  thought  control. 

7  A  square  type  of  script  evolved  by  modifying  the  chuan  style. 

8  According  to  the  "I-wen-chih"  in  the  Han-shu,  the  code  was  compiled  by  Hsiao  Ho. 
The  six  styles  are:  \u  or  ancient;  ch'i  or  strange  (c/i'i  is  a  variety  of  kti  style);  chuan 
or  seal;  //  or  square;  miu-chuan  or  winding  seal;  and  ch'ung  or  worm  style. 

9  Shih-chi,  the  biography  of  Wan-shih  chiin,  chuan  103;  Han-shu,  the  biography  of 
Shih  Fen,  chuan  46. 

10  Instead  of  Emperor  "P'ing,"  the  text  has  Emperor  "Ch'eng,"  which  is  apparently 
a  mistake.  See  "Epilogue"  to  the  Shuo-wen,  and  the  "I-wen  chih"  in  the  Han-shu. 


210  Philology  and  Choice  of  Words 

and  Yang  Hsiung  wrote  philological  elucidations  of  strange  charac- 
ters.11 Both  [Chang  and  Yang]  were  versed  in  the  lexicons  [Erh-]ya12 
and  [Ts'ang-]chieh  p'ien,13  and  made  a  comprehensive  study  of  both 
the  pronunciation  and  the  meaning  of  characters.  These  works  came 
to  be  thoroughly  understood  by  all  who  were  great  writers.  These 
writers  composed  narrative  fu  on  capital  cities  and  gardens,  employing 
loan  characters  and  phonetic  compounds.  For  this  reason,  the  philo- 
logical studies  of  the  Former  Han  were  concerned  mostly  with  re- 
markably important  characters.  This  was  due  not  only  to  their  unique 
philological  system,  but  also  to  the  unusual  fact  that  such  a  system 
was  common  knowledge  among  all  writers. 

By  the  time  of  the  Later  Han,  the  study  of  philology  went  into 
eclipse.  Attention  was  directed  to  "double  script"  and  "obscure  com- 
mentary," of  which  half  is  good  and  half  is  poor.14 

During  the  Wei  dynasty,  the  emphasis  was  on  literary  patterns,  and 
there  was  a  general  rule  governing  the  use  of  characters.  When  people 
returned  to  the  works  of  the  Han,  they  found  them  difficult  and  deep. 
Thus  Ch'en  Ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  spoke  of  the  works  of  Yang  [Hsiung] 
and  [Ssu-] ma  [Hsiang-ju]  as  obscure  in  aim  and  deep  in  purpose,  their 
language  incomprehensible  in  the  absence  of  a  teacher  and  their  ideas 
not  understandable  without  broad  scholarship.  This  was  due  not  only 
to  the  fact  that  Yang  and  Ssu-ma  were  outstanding  talents,  but  also 
to  the  fact  that  the  characters  which  they  used  had  become  obscure. 

Since  the  time  of  the  Chin,  writers  in  general  have  used  simple  and 
easy  characters.  For  if  everybody  is  used  to  the  easy,  who  will  essay  the 
difficult?  Now,  one  strange  or  unfamiliar  character  would  arouse  a 
startled  feeling  about  all  of  a  writer's  sentences,  and  would  be  described 
as  "impish"  if  unrecognized  by  three  people.  But  what  everybody 
knows  becomes  easy,  even  though  it  was  originally  difficult,  and  what 

11  Yang's  work  is  known  as  "Hsiin-tsuan  p'ien,"  also  a  lexicon.  See  the  "I-wen  chih" 
in  the  Han-shu. 

12  A  pre-Ch'in  lexicon,  treating  of  characters  found  in  the  Classics. 

13  Another  lexicon,  written  by  Li  Ssu,  the  first  prime  minister  of  the  Ch'in  dynasty. 
Li  used  the  name  of  the  first  lexicographer  as  his  title. 

14  Examples  of  "double  script"  and  "obscure  commentary"  may  be  found  in  the 
"Epilogue"  to  the  Shuo-wen. 


Philology  and  Choice  of  Words  211 

has  been  discarded  by  the  age  becomes  difficult,  even  though  it  may 
have  been  easy  originally.  We  should  exercise  the  utmost  discretion 
in  our  choice  of  words. 

The  Erh-ya  was  compiled  by  the  disciples  of  Confucius,  and  is  the 
lapel  and  sash  of  the  Poetry  and  History.  The  lexicon  Tsang-chieh  was 
compiled  by  Li  Ssu,  and  it  is  the  remnant  vestiges  of  Historian  Chou's 
ancient  script  based  on  bird-markings.  The  lexicon  Erh-ya  is  the  prime 
source  of  philological  elucidation;  the  Tsang-chieh  a  garden  of  won- 
drous literary  forms.  They  differ  from  each  other  but  supplement  each 
other  like  the  left  and  right  limbs.  Those  who  understand  the  new  by 
inference  from  the  old  are  savants  in  the  art  of  writing. 

The  meaning  of  a  character  changes  with  the  passing  of  time,  as 
new  senses  are  adopted  and  old  ones  are  discarded.  It  also  evolves  from 
simple  into  complex  forms,  differing  in  their  esthetic  appeal.  The  sound 
of  the  mind  is  expressed  in  speech,  and  speech  resides  in  characters: 
when  reciting,  we  find  beauty  in  \ung  and  shang,  that  is,  "the  con- 
sonance of  the  speech";  and  when  we  compose,  our  ability  is  made 
manifest  by  the  forms  of  the  characters  which  we  choose. 

In  grouping  words  and  composing  a  piece,  a  writer  must  be  versed 
in  the  choice  of  words:  first  of  all,  he  must  avoid  what  is  odd  and 
strange;  second,  he  must  avoid  characters  with  the  same  radical;  third, 
he  must  weigh  carefully  his  repetitions;  and  fourth,  he  must  be  bal- 
anced in  the  use  of  the  simple  and  complex  forms.  By  the  odd  and  the 
strange  is  meant  characters  which  are  unusual.  Ts'ao  Chu,  for  instance, 
has  a  poem  which  runs: 

ch'i  pu  yuan  ssu  yu 

pien   hsin   wu  hsiung  nu 
[It  is  not  that  I  do  not  wish  to  make  this  trip, 
But  my  narrowed  mind  hates  brawling.] 

Hsiung  and  nu  are  two  odd  and  strange  words,  which  spoil  the  beauty 
of  the  whole  piece.  There  are  other  works  using  words  even  more 
odd  and  strange  than  these.  How  can  they  be  looked  upon  without 
aversion  ? 


212  Philology  and  Choice  of  Words 

By  characters  of  the  same  radical  is  meant  several  characters  in 
succession  with  one  radical,  that  is,  one  half  of  each  of  their  forms, 
in  common.15  In  the  description  of  mountains  and  rivers,  such  a  device 
has  been  used  in  all  ages.16  But  when  applied  to  ordinary  writing,  the 
practice  is  a  definite  defect,  because  it  offends  our  sensibilities.  If  it 
cannot  be  helped,  it  may  be  permissible  for  the  number  to  grow  to 
three  in  succession.  Once  it  is  allowed  to  go  beyond  three,  is  it  not 
virtually  a  glossary? 

By  repetition  is  meant  the  conflict  created  by  the  appearance  of  the 
same  character  more  than  once  in  the  same  poem.  Such  occurrences  in 
the  Poetry  and  the  Li-sao  are  spontaneous  and  accidental.  But  in  recent 
times  they  are  considered  bad  taste.  However,  if  both  positions  require 
the  same  word,  it  is  wiser  to  allow  the  second  use  than  to  weaken  the 
composition  by  avoiding  it.  Therefore,  good  writers  who  have  the 
wealth  of  ten  thousand  literary  pieces  to  their  credit  may  sometimes 
find  themselves  paupers  with  respect  to  the  availability  of  one  single 
word.  For  at  times  a  single  word  looms  large,  because  it  is  difficult 
to  avoid  repeating  it. 

Simple  and  complex  forms  refers  to  the  plump  or  the  bony  appear- 
ance of  the  characters.  If  sentence  after  sentence  contains  a  host  of 
bony  words,  the  lines  will  be  thin  and  sparse,  ugly  to  look  at;  if,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  piece  is  filled  with  plump  characters,  the  whole  piece  will 
be  dark  and  blotted.  One  who  can  choose  words  well  will  use  the 
simple  and  the  complex  in  so  harmonious  a  pattern  that  visually  they 
will  form  a  string  of  pearls. 

The  four  points  enumerated  here,  although  not  necessarily  relevant 
to  all  writing,  must  be  considered  on  general  grounds.  Should  one 
happen  to  practice  them  without  a  conscious  realization  of  their  truth, 
he  has  not  obtained  the  inner  understanding  of  the  art  of  writing. 

15  Note  3  above  lists  the  six  lexigraphic  principles,  of  which  one  is  phonetic  compounds. 
A  phonetic  compound  consists  of  two  parts,  one  serving  as  the  phonetic,  and  one  serving 
as  the  signific.  Characters  constructed  on  this  principle  are  always  complete  structures; 
each  constituent  may  be  a  radical.  In  the  Chinese  language  there  are  214  radicals.  It  is 
possible  to  form  a  sentence  of  several  words  with  the  same  radical. 

16  That  is,  it  is  logical  to  use  characters  with  the  mountain  radical  when  describing 
mountains,  and  characters  with  the  water  radical  when  describing  rivers. 


Philology  and  Choice  of  Words  213 

Now  Classics  and  old  documents  are  often  obscure  and  vague,  and 
their  wood  and  bamboo  strips  in  confusion;  the  strips  are  often  eaten 
by  bookworms  and  the  silk  split  to  pieces;  and  many  wrong  characters 
creep  in,  in  the  course  of  three  copyings.17  Sometimes  the  mistake  is  in 
the  pronunciation,  sometimes  in  the  text  itself.  The  disciple  of  Tzu-ssu18 
[quoted  from  the  Chou-sung] :  wu  mu  pu  ssu  ("Oh,  it  is  august  and 
most  similar")  instead  of  wu  mu  pu  i  ("Oh,  it  is  august  and  never- 
ending").  This  is  a  mistake  in  pronunciation.19  In  the  historical  records 
of  the  Chin,  there  is  a  line:  san  shih  tu  ho  ["three  pigs  cross  the  river"]. 
This  is  a  mistake  in  the  text,20  which  should  run  chi-hai  she  ho  ["on 
the  date  of  chi-hai,  cross  the  river"].  In  the  Shang-shu  ta-chuan,21  there 
is  a  line:  pieh  feng  huai  yu  ["strange  wind  and  torrential  rain"];  but 
in  the  Ti-wang  shih-chi22  we  have  instead:  lieh  feng  yin  yii  ["strong 
wind  and  continuous  rain"].  Pieh  looks  like  lieh,  and  huai  looks  like 
yin;  hence  the  shift  from  one  to  the  other  was  made  unknowingly. 
Yin  [as  used  in  yin-yil,  "continuous  rain"]  and  lieh  [as  used  in  lieh 
feng,  "strong  wind"]  are  perfectly  appropriate  words  to  use,  and  do 
not  sound  strange;  but  huai  and  pieh  are  contrary  to  normal  usage  and 
sound  strange  and  odd.  However,  Fu  I,  in  his  "Elegy"  [to  Prince  Ching 
of  Pei-hai],  had  already  used  huai  yii  [torrential  rain];23  and  Yiian- 

17  See  Ke  Hung's  Pao-p'u  tzu,  "Hsia-lan  p'ien,"  quoting  a  proverb:  "When  a  book  is 
copied  three  times,  yii  [fish]  becomes  lu  [stupid]."  These  two  characters  look  alike,  and 
are  easily  mistaken  by  copyists,  one  for  the  other.  Pao-p'u  tzu,  chiian  19,  p.  97.  Wood 
and  bamboo  strips  and  silk  are  all  writing  materials. 

18  Tzu-ssu  was  Confucius'  grandson. 

19  The  character  originally  pronounced  /  [ending]  is  mispronounced  ssu  (one  of  the 
twelve  earthly  branches)  because  it  looks  like  the  character  which  is  pronounced  ssu. 
Then  this  is  again  mistakenly  changed  to  ssu,  [similar]  because  of  their  being  homopho- 
nous.  The  line  is  quoted  from  poem  no.  267  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry. 

20  Tu  should  be  she,  but  since  they  have  the  same  meaning,  they  are  not  what  con- 
cerned the  author.  The  point  here  is  that  chi-hai,  a  term  for  a  specific  date,  is  taken 
to  be  san  shih,  meaning  three  pigs;  the  mistake  was  made  because  chi-hai,  when  care- 
lessly written,  looks  like  san  shih. 

21  Attributed  to  Fu  Sheng  of  the  Early  Han. 

22  By  Huang-fu  Mi  of  the  Chin,  215-282. 

23  Fragments  of  the  elegy  are  found  in  the  Ku-wen  yuan,  containing  the  line  cited 
here.  In  his  chapter  on  Elegy,  Liu  Hsieh  quoted  the  same  line.  See  Chapter  XII  above. 
But  instead  of  huai  yu  (torrential  rain),  we  find  fen  wu  (mists  and  haze),  showing  that 
someone  must  have  altered  Liu's  text. 


214  Philology  and  Choice  of  Words 

chang  [or  Wang  Yung,  467-493]  in  his  "Preface"  employed  pieh  feng.24 
Thus  we  know  that  love  for  the  strange  is  a  weakness  common  to  all 
writers,  both  present  and  past.  The  textual  lacuna  has  been  treated 
with  caution  by  the  Sage.25  If  one  is  able  to  give  up  what  is  strange 
for  what  is  in  harmony  with  the  normal  sense,  he  will  be  in  a  better 
position  to  discuss  the  problem  of  the  right  choice  of  words. 

I 

The  Tsan: 

Chuan,  the  seal  script,  and  li,  the  square  style,  influence  each  other; 

The  lexicons  Tsang-chieh  and  Erh-ya  classify  and  elucidate. 
1 

The  old  script  and  the  new  differ  in  their  forms. 

They  differ  too  in  their  esthetic  appeal. 

>  Characters  easily  become  corrupt, 

Making  the  free  flow  of  literary  writing  difficult. 

If  both  the  pronunciation  and  the  strokes  of  characters  are  clear  and 

correct, 

Literary  patterns  will  dance  with  vigor  and  liveliness. 


XL.  The  Recondite  and  the  Conspicuous  (Yin-hsiu)1 


The  movement  of  our  thought  reaches  remote  distances,  and  literary 
feeling  develops  from  deeply  buried  sources.  A  source  which  is  pro- 
found permits  growth  in  many  directions,  and  vigorous  roots  foster 
conspicuous  branches.  In  the  case  of  the  beauty  of  a  literary  composi- 
tion, it  too  has  both  conspicuous  and  recondite  elements.  The  recondite 
elements  are  the  weighty  ideas  beyond  the  expressions,  and  the  con- 

24  Yuan-chang's  "Preface"  has  been  identified  as  his  "Ch'ii-shui  shih-hsii." 

25  See  Lun-yii  yin-te,  3/2/18;  32/15/26. 

1  This  chapter  is  only  a  fragment.  Lines  quoted  in  a  work  of  the  Southern  Sung 
period,  11 27-1 279,  are  not  found  here.  An  attempt  was  made  to  forge  the  missing 
portion,  but  no  scholar  was  deceived. 


The  Recondite  and  the  Conspicuous  215 

spicuous  the  startling  excellencies  in  the  piece.  The  beauty  of  the 
recondite  lies  in  its  mystery,  and  that  of  the  conspicuous  in  its  startling 
transcendency.  It  is  these  which  are  preeminently  the  exquisite  qualities 
of  the  ancient  literature,  and  form  the  happy  conjunction  of  talent 
and  feeling.  The  recondite,  as  a  form,  suggests  ideas  which  are  beyond 
linguistic  expression  and  are  comprehended  indirectly  through  abstruse 
overtones,  which  unobtrusively  reveal  hidden  beauty.  This  creation 
of  meaning  may  be  compared  to  the  practice  of  forming  a  new  hexa- 
gram by  realigning  the  lines  of  another,2  or  recalling  how  rivers  contain 
pearls  and  jade.  The  realignment  of  the  lines  of  a  hexagram  gives  birth 
to  the  "four  images,"3  and  the  pearls  and  jade  in  the  depths  of  the 
water  cause  the  formation  of  square  and  round  waves.4 

North  wind  moves  autumn  grass; 

Horses  at  the  border  think  of  returning  home. 

These  lines  speak  of  cold  weather  and  sad  events,  the  lament  of  a 
man  who  finds  himself  exiled  from  home.  Generally,  in  a  volume  of 
collected  work,  not  one  tenth  may  be  considered  good;  and  of  this 
tenth  scarcely  two  percent  contains  lines  of  startling  excellence.  The 
excellent  and  conspicuous  come  as  the  result  of  spontaneous  thought; 
they  are  not  to  be  sought  by  laborious  effort.  Furthermore,  some  writers 
try  to  appear  deep  by  being  obscure;  their  work  may  have  profundity, 
but  not  the  quality  described  as  the  recondite.  Others  painstakingly 
engrave  and  carve  to  attain  artistry;  their  work  may  have  beauty,  but 
not  startling  excellence.  Natural  beauty  is  like  that  of  plants  lit  up  in  the 
splendor  of  their  blossoms,  and  colorful  adornment  may  be  compared 
to  silk  dyed  red  and  green.  The  red  and  green  of  dyed  silks  are  deep 
and,  indeed,  rich  and  fresh;  and  the  blossoms  that  brighten  the  trees, 
whose  beauty  is  completely  exhibited  on  the  surface,  glow  in  blazing 

2  Take,  for  example,  hexagram  %'uei,  no.  38:  g|;  one  may  form  another  hexagram 
by  taking  the  second,  third,  and  fourth  lines,  r_=,  and  the  third,  fourth,  and  fifth 
lines,     =2E ,  to  form  hexagram  chi-chi:     jEE,  which  is  no.  6$. 

3  See  note  15,  Chapter  II. 

4  For  this  belief,  see  Shih-tzu,  quoted  in  the  l-wen  lei-chii,  chiian  8. 


216  The  Recondite  and  the  Conspicuous 

glory.  In  the  same  manner,  outstanding  lines  glow  in  the  garden  of 
literature. 

The  Tsan: 
Profound  literary  writing  contains  hidden  beauty 
With  a  flavor  that  is  rich  and  enduring. 
The  interlacing  of  the  language 

May  be  compared  to  the  realigning  of  the  lines  in  a  hexagram. 
An  outstanding  line 

Is  the  hub  where  are  gathered  the  ten  thousand  thoughts. 
It  moves  the  mind  and  startles  the  ears, 
With  the  music  of  a  sheng  or  a  p'ao.5 


XLI.  Literary  Flaws 


Kuan  Chung  once  said,  "That  which  flies  without  wings  is  sound, 
and  that  which  is  firm  without  roots  is  feeling."  Because  sound  does 
not  depend  on  wings,  it  is  very  easy  for  it  to  fly;  and  because  feeling 
does  not  depend  on  roots,  it  is  not  at  all  difficult  for  it  to  gain  a  firm 
footing.  Since  this  applies  particularly  to  literary  writing,  should  one 
not  compose  with  the  utmost  caution?1 

Scholars  have  since  earliest  times  been  competitors,  even  though  they 
may  have  lived  in  different  ages.  Some  are  endowed  with  outstanding 
talent,  vigorous  and  quick;  others  are  deeply  contemplative,  closely 
attentive  to  details.  However,  it  is  difficult  to  achieve  perfection  in 
thinking,  and  rarely  indeed  has  thought  ever  been  without  flaws.  The 
writing  of  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih]  is  the  most  talented  of  all,  and 

5  Sheng  is  a  musical  instrument  consisting  of  a  number  of  pipes  of  different  lengths. 
P'ao  is  also  a  musical  instrument,  made  of  a  bottle  gourd. 

1  The  slightest  mistake  in  literary  writing  would  be  broadcast  without  wings,  and 
become  firmly  established  in  the  minds  of  people,  though  without  roots.  Hence  the 
necessity  of  extreme  caution. 


Literary  Flaws  217 

yet  in  his  "Elegy  for  Emperor  Wu,"  he  said,  "May  his  august  spirit 
eternally  hibernate."2  And  in  his  "Panegyric  to  Emperor  Ming,"  he 
said,  "His  majesty's  body  flutters  and  is  airy."3  "Flutters"  and  "airy" 
connote  qualities  which  characterize  a  butterfly,  and  "eternally  hiber- 
said,  "His  majesty's  body  flutters  and  is  airy."3  "Flutters"  and  "airy" 
to  apply  these  phrases  to  the  most  exalted  of  all  men? 

Tso  Ssu,  in  his  "Ch'i  feng,"  speaks  of  filial  piety,  and  yet  does  not 
follow  through  properly.4  In  the  light  of  the  violation  of  moral  prin- 
ciples involved,  there  is  no  point  in  paying  attention  to  the  rest  of  the 
writing. 

P'an  Yueh  was  particularly  versed  in  lament.  But  in  lamenting  his 
brother-in-law,  he  said  that  he  was  moved  by  the  remnant  grace  of  the 
mouth;  and  in  mourning  the  death  of  his  son,  he  said  that  his  heart 
was  dazed  as  if  in  a  state  of  doubt.5  These  phrases  in  the  Boo\  of  Rites 
are  meant  for  people  higher  in  status,  but  were  applied  by  P'an  to  those 
lower  in  status;  although  the  writings  express  well  his  grief,  they  suffer 
by  the  misapplication  of  these  phrases.  [In  the  Boo\  of  Rites  it  is  said] 
that  a  superior  man  compares  people  who  are  comparable.6  And  yet 
Ts'ui  Yuan  [77-142],  in  his  "Elegy  to  Master  Li,"  compared  his  conduct 
with  that  of  the  Yellow  Emperor  and  Emperor  Yii.7  And  Hsiang  Hsiu 
[of  the  Chin],  in  his  fu  about  Hsi  [Kang,  223-262],  compared  Hsi's 
crime  with  that  of  Li  Ssu.  Although  one  ought  rather  to  err  in  over- 
estimation  than  in  overcondemnation,8  if  one  must  err  at  all,  such  com- 
parison is  still  like  the  songs  which  Kao  Hou  [of  Ch'i  during  Chou 

2  Emperor  Wu  was  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  Ts'ao  Chih's  father,  who,  though  powerful,  never 
actually  became  emperor.  The  title  was  posthumously  given  him  by  his  son  Ts'ao  P'ei, 
who  usurped  the  Han  throne  in  221  and  became  the  first  ruler  of  the  Wei  dynasty. 

3  Emperor  Ming  was  the  second  ruler  of  the  Wei  dynasty,  Ts'ao  P'ei's  son  and  Ts'ao 
Chih's  nephew.  Both  pieces  are  found  in  Ts'ao  Chih's  collected  work:  Tz'ao  Tzu-chien  chi. 

4  The  work  is  lost.  Liu  Hsieh's  text  is  so  cryptic  that  without  reference  to  the  original 
work  it  is  not  possible  to  make  it  intelligible. 

5  "The  remnant  grace  of  the  mouth"  is  used  in  connection  with  the  mother  {Li-chi 
yin-te,  13/24),  and  "as  if  in  a  state  of  doubt"  is  used  in  connection  with  the  funeral 
of  parents  {Li-chi  yin-te,  3/41;  35). 

6  Ibid.,  2/18. 

7  The  work  is  not  identifiable. 

8  A  reference  to  a  saying  of  Ts'ai  Sheng-tzu  of  the  Chou.  See  Ch'un-ch'in  ching-chuan 
yin-te,  312/Hsiang  26/fu  6. 


218  Literary  Flaws 

times]  sang,  completely  out  of  tune  with  the  nature  of  the  occasion.9 
Language  used  with  artistry  easily  wins  applause,  but  there  is  no  way 
to  cover  up  stupid  expressions.  For  a  flaw  in  language  may  lie  even 
deeper  than  a  flaw  in  white  jade  and  still  be  seen.10  As  it  is  impossible 
to  give  examples  of  all  kinds,  only  four  kinds  of  flaws  have  been  men- 
tioned here. 

The  factors  of  prime  importance  in  literary  composition  are  the 
choice  and  the  meanings  of  words.  Correct  choice  of  words  results 
from  a  sound  grounding  in  philology,  and  clarity  of  meaning  comes 
from  a  process  of  careful  reasoning.  But  at  the  end  of  the  Chin  dynasty, 
vagueness  became  the  order  of  the  day.  At  first  the  following  words 
were  in  use:  shang,  "to  appreciate";  chi>  "to  be  in  the  midst  of";  ch'i, 
"the  strange  or  extraordinary";  and  chih,  "to  arrive,"  or  "the  ultimate"; 
and  then  there  came  into  vogue  fu,  "to  touch";  J(ou,  "to  knock";  ch'ou, 
"to  pledge  with  wine";  and  tso,  "to  pledge  a  host  in  wine."11  Often  a 
single  word  was  used  to  indicate  a  certain  feeling.  Now  words  like 
shang,  "to  appreciate,"  hsiin,  "to  elucidate  or  admonish,"  hsi,  "to  con- 
fer," and  lot,  "to  bestow,"  do  not  concern  the  understanding  of  the 
mind;  neither  do  fu,  "to  touch,"  hsiin,  "to  admonish,"  chih,  "to  grasp," 
and  wo,  "to  hold,"  have  anything  to  do  with  feeling  and  reason.12  I 
have  not  heard  of  any  reference  to  these  words  in  the  ya  and  the  sung, 
nor  have  I  seen  them  used  in  the  Han  and  Wei  writings.  The  topics  of 
the  writings  taken  by  themselves  seem  to  indicate  clear  ideas;  but  a  close 
study  of  the  content  reveals  that  it  is  nonsense.  This  is  the  condition 
we  find  when  writers  become  pretentious  in  expressing  their  feelings, 

9  Ibid.,  284/Hsiang  16/3  Tso.  Kao  Hou,  a  minister  from  Ch'i,  sang  a  song  at  the 
diplomatic  conference  called  by  Chin.  It  was  the  general  principle  of  the  time  to  sing 
songs  which  were  appropriate  to  the  occasion.  But  Kao  Hou  selected  songs  which  were 
not  in  harmony  with  the  theme  of  the  conference.  This  violation  of  the  principle  was 
taken  by  the  Chin  state  to  be  an  attempt  on  the  part  of  Ch'i  to  challenge  the  leadership 
of  Chin. 

10  A  reference  to  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  See  Mao-shih  yin-te,  68/256/5:  "A  flaw  in  a 
white  jade  can  still  be  ground  away;  a  flaw  in  language,  for  that  nothing  can  be  done." 

11  It  is  impossible  to  determine  the  specific  cases  to  which  these  refer.  Suffice  it  to  say 
that  these  and  many  others  were  used  during  the  Six  Dynasties  period  in  a  way  too 
vague  to  be  considered  "correct"  or  "clear." 

12  No  specific  cases  offer  themselves  to  illustrate  the  idea  our  author  has  in  mind  in 
citing  the  use  of  these  words. 


Literary  Flaws  219 

the  result  of  a  literary  trend  of  increasing  decadence.  Writers  since  the 
Sung  [420-479]  have  done  nothing  to  alter  the  trend;  it  is  a  literary 
habit  which  results  from  the  cumulative  effect  of  constant  practice,  for 
such  a  trend  is  not  the  work  of  one  day. 

Recent  poets  are  often  suspicious.  They  are  addicted  to  the  habit 
of  construing  anything  written  to  mean  something  obnoxious,  either 
by  homophonous  reading  or  by  a  form  of  reverse  spelling.13  Such  a 
practice,  although  it  would  never  have  been  tolerated  in  the  past,  must 
be  taken  into  consideration  at  the  present  time.14 

When  we  find  our  writing  similar  to  others'  work,  it  would  seem  to 
be  our  obligation  to  delete  it.  Why  plagiarize  beautiful  expressions  as 
if  they  were  our  own  creations?  The  precious  ceremonial  jade  and 
grand  bow  of  Lu  will  never  belong  to  [the  rebel  minister  Yang  Hu].15 
Some  indulge  in  wholesale  plagiarism,  "carrying  away  the  trunk," 
and  others  in  selected  copying,  "picking  out  of  a  satchel."16  However, 
if  one  plagiarizes  the  Ancients,  he  will  be  regarded  with  small  con- 
tempt, while  if  he  plagiarizes  his  contemporaries,  he  is  simply  courting 
disaster. 

In  writing  commentaries  the  purpose  is  to  explain  and  emend  facts 
and  principles.  But  if  the  author  makes  a  mistake  in  his  effort  to  do 
so,  his  conclusions  may  be  completely  unfounded.  In  [Chang  Heng's] 

13  For  homophonous  reading,  an  example  of  a  later  age  is  perhaps  the  best.  Once  the 
first  emperor  of  the  Ming  dynasty  was  eulogized  in  the  following  words:  wei  shih  tso 
tse,  "to  be  the  standard  of  the  world."  But,  being  suspicious  in  nature  and  thinking  that 
the  writer  was  ridiculing  him  because  he  rose  from  the  lowest  level  of  social  hierarchy, 
he  read  this  as  wei  shih  tso  tse,  "to  be  the  thief  of  the  world."  As  an  example  of  reverse 
spelling,  let  me  cite  the  following  case:  Jen  Fang  (460-508)  commented  upon  Ho  Seng- 
chih's  poetry  as  being  kao-hou,  "lofty  like  heaven  and  thick  or  weighty  like  earth." 
Ho  Seng-chih  suddenly  became  enraged  because,  by  spelling  out  the  two  words  in 
reverse,  instead  of  \ao-hou  he  got  \ou-hao,  "barking  of  a  dog." 

14  Carelessness  in  this  respect  might  involve  one  in  painful  experience,  because  of  the 
suspicious  nature  of  the  writers  of  the  time. 

15  A  reference  to  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chnan  yin-te,  452/Ting  8/16.  Yang  Hu,  a  house 
minister  of  the  House  of  Chi,  the  minister  of  the  state  of  Lu.  Having  failed  in  a  coup 
d'etat,  Yang  Hu  got  hold  of  the  precious  jade  and  grand  bow,  insignia  conferred  upon 
the  Duke  of  Chou  by  King  Wu,  the  founder  of  the  Chou  dynasty.  Literary  plagiarism 
is  here  compared  to  the  thieving  of  the  state  insignia  by  a  rebel  minister. 

16  "Carrying  away  the  trunk"  and  "picking  out  of  a  satchel"  are  expressions  describing 
the  conduct  of  a  thief,  found  in  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  23/10/1,  2. 


220  Literary  Flaws 

"Hsi-ching  fu,"  he  mentions  Chung-huang,  Yii,  and  Huo.  Hsieh 
Tsung,  in  his  comment  on  them,  said  they  were  eunuchs.  This  proves 
that  Hsieh  Tsung  had  not  heard  of  the  man  who  captured  [a  monkey 
with  his  left  hand],  while  [with  his  right]  he  was  trying  to  hit  a 
variegated  tiger.17  And  in  the  Chou-li,  or  "Chou  institutions,"  in  con- 
nection with  land  tax,  there  is  the  first  use  of  the  term  p'i  ma,  "one 
of  a  pair  of  horses."18  Now  Ying  Shao19  explained  p'i,  properly  "one 
of  a  pair,"  as  a  suitable  adjective  to  apply  to  head  or  hooves.  Can  we 
call  this  the  proper  way  to  explain  the  matter?20  According  to  the 
proper  use  of  terms  in  ancient  times,  the  term  Hang,  "a  couple,"  is 
applied  to  carriages,  and  the  term  p'i,  "a  pair,"  to  horses.  Both  p'i  and 
Hang  are  used  to  express  parallelism.  For  in  the  case  of  carriages,  there 
must  be  a  secondary  carriage  supporting  the  main  carriage.  And  in  the 
case  of  the  horses,  there  are  two  outside  horses  and  two  inner  horses. 
Since  neither  carriages  nor  horses  ever  go  alone,  either  may  properly 
be  modified  by  a  term  implying  a  pair.  When  this  purpose  of  giving 
terms  is  properly  understood,  then  even  when  there  is  only  one  horse, 
the  term  p'i  is  also  applied.  For  when  we  speak  of  p'i-fu,  "one  husband," 
and  p'i-fu,  "one  wife,"21  the  idea  of  "a  pair"  is  implied.22 

Now  this  matter  of  carriages  and  horses  is  certainly  not  of  great 
profundity,  yet  it  has  been  misunderstood  for  ages;  and  the  art  of 

17  Chung-huang  [Hsia]  Yii,  and  [Wu]  Huo  were  men  of  strength  and  courage  in 
ancient  times.  For  Chung-huang,  see  Li  Shang's  note  to  Chang  Heng's  "Hsi-ching  fu," 
and  for  Yii  and  Huo,  see  Chan-\uo-ts 'e  (Kuo-hsueh  chi-pen  ts'ung-shu  ed.),  Vol.  I, 
chiian  5,  p.  40. 

18  Actually  the  expression  occurs  in  Cheng  Hsiian's  commentary  to  "Hsiao-ssu  t'u"  in 
the  Chou-li,  and  Cheng  here  was  quoting  from  Ssu-ma  fa,  an  ancient  work  on  govern- 
ment and  military  institutions.  See  Chou-li  (Shih-san-ching  chu-shu  ed.,  1815),  chiian 
11,  p.  6b. 

19  Flourishing  in  the  latter  part  of  the  second  century,  author  of  Feng-shu  t'ung, 
explanatory  notes  on  different  categories  of  things. 

20  Ying  Shao's  Feng-shu  t'ung,  as  it  exists  today,  is  probably  not  complete,  for  it  does 
not  contain  the  cited  explanation  of  the  term  p'i. 

21  These  two  expressions  appear  exactly  the  same  in  transliteration;  therefore  it  may 
be  puzzling  to  the  uninitiated  with  regard  to  the  Chinese  language.  In  Chinese,  they 
appear  in  different  forms,  and  their  pronunciation  is  also  different.  Fu,  meaning  "hus- 
band," is  the  first  tone,  and  fu,  meaning  "wife,"  the  fourth. 

22  For  the  very  terms  fu  and  fu  mutually  imply  each  other.  They  would  never  have 
been  considered  as  standing  alone. 


Literary  Flaws  221 

poetry  writing  is  of  rather  intimate  concern  to  us,  and  yet  it  has  been 
the  subject  of  enormous  misconceptions;  how  is  it  possible  then  to 
eliminate  errors  when  one  comes  to  the  enquiry  into  classical  texts? 
As  it  is  palpably  absurd  to  explain  p'i  in  terms  of  counting  heads  and 
hooves,  or  to  select  men  of  courage  by  drafting  eunuchs,  I  have  chosen 
to  present  these  examples  here  as  a  warning.  Paintings  may  glow  for 
a  time  after  they  are  first  created,  but  they  will  inevitably  fade  away; 
literary  work,  on  the  other  hand,  shines  even  brighter  with  the  passage 
of  time.  And  if  for  one  morning  a  writer  is  able  to  correct  himself 
according  to  the  proper  standard,  he  will  have  nothing  to  be  ashamed 
of  in  the  thousand  years  that  follow. 

The  Tsan: 
I  [a  most  accurate  archer]  shot  [his  sparrow  in]  the  wrong  [eye],23 
And  [the  great  horseman]  Tung-yeh  [Chi]  failed  in  his  horsemanship;24 
Excellent  though  a  man's  talent  is, 
He  will  fall  if  he  takes  an  erroneous  course. 
If  there  is  one  flaw  in  the  language  of  a  piece, 
Though  one  tried  a  thousand  years,  it  could  not  be  removed. 
The  nearest  thing  to  perfection 
Is  for  a  piece  to  be  [relatively]  free  from  defect. 

23  I  was  the  ruler  of  Yu-ch'iung  tribe  who  usurped  the  throne  of  Hsia  for  a  short 
time.  Once,  in  the  company  of  Wu  Ho,  he  was  asked  to  shoot  the  left  eye  of  a  sparrow. 
By  mistake  he  shot  its  right  eye.  He  never  forgot  this  shame  throughout  his  life.  See 
T'ai-p'ing  yii-lan,  chiian  82. 

24  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  50/19/59.  Tung-yeh  Chi  came  to  see  Duke  Chuang  [of  Lu] 
on  the  recommendation  of  his  art  of  driving.  His  movement  back  and  forth  was  as  straight 
as  a  carpenter's  line,  and  his  circle  as  round  as  a  compass.  Duke  Chuang  thought  that 
not  even  embroidery  could  be  more  beautiful  than  his  driving  patterns.  [Tung-yeh]  was 
driving  his  horse  to  make  a  hundred  turns,  with  the  intention  to  come  back  to  the 
original  rut  without  deviation.  Yen  Ho  met  him  and  came  in  to  see  the  duke  and  said 
Chi's  horse  would  soon  collapse.  The  duke  kept  silent  and  did  not  answer.  In  a  short 
while,  Chi's  horse  collapsed  as  foretold.  The  duke  asked  Yen  Ho,  "How  did  you  know?" 
Yen  replied,  "His  horse  was  exhausted,  and  yet  he  still  drove  it  hard  to  get  more  out 
of   it.   Therefore   I   knew   it   would   collapse." 


XLII.  The  Nourishing  of  Vitality 


Wang  Ch'ung  [of  the  Later  Han]  wrote  a  book  on  the  theme  of  nour- 
ishing one's  vitality;1  it  was  based  on  his  own  personal  experience,  and 
not  just  on  unfounded  speculation.  Ears,  eyes,  nose,  and  mouth  are 
organs  which  serve  our  physical  life;  thinking,  pondering,  speech,  and 
linguistic  expression  are  functions  of  our  spirit.  When  all  these  operate 
spontaneously,  in  accordance  with  our  nature  and  in  perfect  harmony, 
the  principles  of  things  are  revealed  and  feeling  finds  unobstructed 
expression.  But  if  a  man  works  too  hard,  he  becomes  weary  in  spirit 
and  sapped  in  vitality.  This  is  the  law  governing  our  nature  and  feeling. 
During  the  time  of  the  Three  Sovereigns,  the  language  was  simple, 
and  there  was  no  desire  to  embellish  it.  The  age  of  the  [Five]  Emperors 
first  witnessed  the  emergence  of  linguistic  adornment,  and  there  was 
a  general  emphasis  on  arranging  the  words  in  artistic  patterns.  Al- 
though this  tendency  to  embellishment  gradually  grew  throughout  the 
period  of  the  Three  Dynasties  and  the  Spring  and  Autumn  period,  it 
remained  always  in  perfect  accord  with  the  inner  feeling  of  the  writers, 
showing  no  sign  of  labor  forcing  the  natural  bounds  of  talent.  But  by 
the  time  of  the  Warring  States  period,  the  emphasis  had  been  shifted 
to  sophistry,  and  writers  were  laboring  to  be  original  and  to  be  orna- 
mental in  their  discourse.  From  Han  times  to  the  present,  new  ele- 
ments in  literary  language  have  been  added  every  day,  competing  in 
their  brilliance  and  in  their  display  of  colorful  patterns,  and  involving 
an  exhausting  waste  of  mental  effort.  The  difference  between  a  simple, 
sound  language  and  a  sophisticated,  pretentious  one  is  so  apparent  that 
it  can  still  be  recognized  after  a  lapse  of  a  thousand  years.  The  one 
follows  the  nature  of  the  mind,  and  the  other  exhausts  the  feelings; 
they  are  ten  thousand  miles  apart,  for  one  is  spontaneous  and  the  other 

1  Wang  Ch'ung,  A.D.  27-c.  100,  wrote  Lun-heng  (Critical  essays),  the  last  chapter  of 
which  is  autobiographical.  In  this  chapter  is  mentioned  his  writing  on  the  nourishing 
of  vitality  in  sixteen  chapters,  based  completely  on  his  own  personal  experience.  See 
Lun-heng  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  p.  288. 


The  Nourishing  of  Vitality  223 

laborious.  In  this  we  may  see  the  reason  why  the  Ancients  were  always 
leisurely  and  at  ease,  and  later  writers  so  hurried  and  hasty. 

It  is  true  in  general  that  men  in  their  tender  years  are  inexperienced 
but  extremely  ambitious,  while  men  of  age  have  strong  convictions 
but  are  weak  in  vitality.  The  ambitious  are  quick  in  thought,  a  habit 
which  relieves  them  of  laborious  effort;  but  the  weak  in  vitality  are 
exhaustive  in  their  thinking,  a  habit  which  depletes  their  vital  spirit. 
These  are  the  general  characteristics  of  mediocre  men,  phenomena 
generally  expected  of  people  of  different  age. 

Now  a  man's  capacity  and  natural  parts  are  limited,  but  he  may 
work  his  mind  without  limit.  There  are  men  who  are  ashamed  of 
their  short  "wild  duck"  legs  and  aspire  to  those  of  the  crane:2  they  will 
force  themselves  to  write  and  their  minds  to  function.  In  so  doing, 
they  wear  out  the  vitality  within,  which  fades  away  like  the  feeble 
waves  of  a  stream,  or  make  themselves  as  gaunt  and  emaciated  as  the 
trees  on  Mount  Niu.3  In  such  a  state  of  worry  and  anxiety,  it  is  only 
natural  for  a  man  to  soon  fall  victim  to  disease.  Chung-jen  [or  Wang 
Ch'ung]  placed  [brushes  and]  inkstones  [all  over  his  house],  so  that 
he  could  write  [his  critical  essays  whenever  he  was  inspired  to  do  so] ; 
and  Shu-t'ung  [or  Ts'ao  Pao]  [went  to  sleep]  with  a  brush  in  his 
bosom,  in  order  to  devote  himself  wholeheartedly  to  his  work.4  Year 
in  and  year  out,  through  all  seasons  they  were  exposed  to  the  heat  of 
anxiety,  and  day  in  and  day  out,  at  all  hours  they  were  being  roasted 
over  the  fire  of  anxiety.  No  wonder  that  Master  Ts'ao  should  express 
the  concern  that  literary  composition  tends  to  ruin  a  man's  life,  and 
Lu  Yiin  should  regret  that  over-thinking  distresses  the  spirit:  their 
opinions  are  by  no  means  unfounded. 

2  The  idea  that  man's  capacity  is  limited  but  his  desire  to  use  his  mind  is  without 
restraint  is  a  modified  version  of  Chuangtzu's  idea  that  our  life  is  limited,  while  the 
scope  of  knowledge  is  unbounded.  See  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  7/3/1.  The  story  of  the  wild 
duck's  short  legs  and  the  crane's  long  ones  is  also  from  Chuangtzu.  Ibid.,  21/8/9-10. 

3  The  last  reference  is  to  Mencius,  where  moral  depravity  is  compared  to  the  sad 
condition  of  the  trees  on  Mount  Niu,  for  they  are  constantly  at  the  mercy  of  the  axes 
and  bills,  and  the  cattle  and  goats.  See  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  44/6A/8. 

4  Ts'ao  Pao  devoted  himself  to  the  task  of  continuing  what  Shu-sun  T'ung  had  started 
at  the  beginning  of  the  Han  dynasty  in  formulating  ceremonial  rituals.  See  his  biography 
in  the  Hou-han  shu. 


224  The  Nourishing  of  Vitality 

Learning  requires  diligence;  therefore  [Su  Ch'in]  pricked  his  leg 
with  an  awl  [to  keep  himself  awake  to  study].5  But  in  literary  com- 
position, the  purpose  is  to  express  feeling  which  has  been  repressed; 
therefore,  it  is  necessary  that  the  writer  be  able  to  give  free  vent  to  his 
feelings  in  a  happy  and  spontaneous  manner.  If  in  the  process  he  has 
to  burn  up  his  inner  force  and  dry  up  the  harmonious  natural  flow 
of  his  vitality,  his  writing  will  only  serve  to  shorten  his  years  and  do 
violence  to  his  nature.  Could  this  have  been  the  conscious  purpose  of 
the  sages  and  worthies,  or  indeed  the  reason  for  any  literary  writing? 

Furthermore,  sometimes  we  are  sharp  and  sometimes  dull  in  think- 
ing; and  there  are  moments  when  we  are  inspired  and  also  moments 
when  all  our  senses  seem  to  be  clogged.  "When  one  is  washing  his 
hair,  his  heart  [the  seat  of  his  reason]  is  out  of  position,"  and  the  result 
is  abnormal  thinking.6  Similarly  and  with  greater  cogency,  when  one's 
spirit  is  overcome  by  darkness,  the  more  it  is  spurred  on,  the  more 
benighted  it  becomes.  Therefore,  in  the  art  of  literary  writing,  temper- 
ance and  readiness  for  expression  are  of  prime  importance:  that  is,  it 
is  essential  to  keep  the  mind  pure  and  tranquil  so  that  its  vitality  may 
find  spontaneous  expression.  As  soon  as  one  feels  vexed,  he  should 
immediately  give  up  thinking,  so  as  not  to  let  his  mind  become 
choked.  When  inspired,  give  vent  to  your  heart  and  entrust  it  to  the 
brush;  but  when  ideas  hide  themselves,  put  the  brush  down  and  fold 
up  your  mind.  A  pleasant  trip  is  a  sure  cure  for  weariness,  and  talk  and 
laughter  will  bring  restoration  from  fatigue.  One  should  always  try 
the  sharpness  of  his  talent  in  leisure,  and  spur  on  his  literary  courage 

5  I  am  adopting  the  reading  of  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  hsin-shu,  edited  by  Wang  Li-ch'i 
(Peking,  1951),  in  omitting  two  lines,  the  forgery  of  one  of  which  is  apparent,  because 
of  the  anachronism  in  its  reference.  Su  Ch'in  of  the  Warring  States  period  drove  himself 
to  study  and  pricked  himself  with  an  awl  to  keep  awake. 

6  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  123/Hsi  24/Tso  fu  1:  "T'ou  Hsu,  a  former 
attendant  of  the  Duke  of  Chin,  .  .  .  requested  an  audience.  The  duke  refused  to  see 
him  because  he  was  washing  his  hair.  [T'ou-hsii]  told  his  followers,  'When  one  is 
washing  his  hair,  his  heart  is  out  of  position,  and  this  will  make  him  think  in  a  way 
contrary  to  the  normal  manner.  It  is  natural  that  the  duke  will  not  see  me.'  "  Note  that 
ancient  Chinese  were  good  Aristotelian  psychologists,  for  they  also  believed  that  the 
function  of  thinking  belongs  to  the  heart.  Liu  Hsieh  cited  the  story  to  illustrate  this 
point  that  there  are  moments  when,  due  to  circumstances  such  as  this,  the  thinking 
may  not  be  normal.  In  such  moments,  it  is  best  not  to  force  the  heart  to  think. 


Organization  225 

when  there  is  plenty  of  surplus  energy,  so  that  his  knife  may  ever 
be  as  sharp  as  one  newly  honed,7  and  the  circulation  of  the  air  [i.e., 
oxygen]  through  the  veins  to  his  muscles  may  be  unobstructed.8  Al- 
though this  method  of  achieving  refreshment  may  not  achieve  the 
results  obtained  by  the  art  of  breath  control,9  it  is  one  way  to  protect 
our  vitality. 

The  Tsan: 
The  world  is  filled  with  ten  thousand  things  in  confusion; 
It  is  a  very  laborious  task  to  think  of  even  a  thousand  of  them. 
So  it  is  imperative  to  preserve  our  inner  spirit, 
And  nourish  our  native  vitality. 
Water  shines  because  of  its  tranquility, 
And  fire  brightens  when  it  burns  quietly. 
Never  overtax  your  literary  thought, 
But  always  keep  the  spirit  fresh. 


XLIII.  Organization  (Fu-hui)1 


What  is  the  meaning  of  fu-hui?  It  means  a  comprehensive  view  of  a 
literary  piece  as  a  whole  with  respect  to  both  its  language  and  its  ideas; 
it  provides  an  underlying  principle  to  unify  all  its  parts,  it  defines  the 
conditions  governing  what  should  be  included  and  what  excluded,  and 
works  elements  from  all  the  various  fields  into  harmony;  in  short,  it 

7  One's  vitality  is  compared  to  the  knife  of  the  butcher  in  the  Chuangtzu,  and  it  may 
be  kept  ever  sharp  by  not  forcing  it,  just  as  the  butcher  kept  his  knife  sharp  by  a  perfect 
knowledge  of  the  physiology  of  the  bull,  a  knowledge  which  enabled  him  to  send 
his  knife  through  the  body  without  encountering  obstruction.  See  Chuangtzu  yin-te, 
7/5/8. 

8  See  Huangti  nei-ching  su-wen,  "Chii-t'ung  lun." 

9  A  Taoist  method  to  achieve  immortality  by  means  of  internal  alchemy. 

1  Fu-hui  is  an  abbreviation  of  ju-tz'u  hui-i,  to  give  order  to  linguistic  elements  and 
unity  to  ideas.  Thus,  the  chapter  deals  with  the  organizational  principles  of  a  literary 
creation. 


226  Organization 

organizes  the  whole  piece  in  such  a  way  that,  though  composed  of  a 
variety  of  elements,  it  will  not  as  a  whole  fall  short  of  the  proper 
standard.  It  may  be  compared  to  the  role  of  the  foundation  in  the  build- 
ing of  a  house  and  the  tailor's  pattern  in  the  making  of  a  dress,  both 
necessary  in  their  respective  fields.  When  a  child  starts  to  learn  the  art 
of  writing,  he  must  first  be  taught  correct  organization:  it  consists  of 
feeling  and  ideas  as  the  soul,  of  facts  and  meaning  as  the  bone  and 
marrow,  of  linguistic  patterns  as  the  musculature  and  integument,  and 
of  \ung  and  shang,  that  is,  the  resonance  of  the  language,  as  its  voice 
and  breath.  Only  after  he  has  learned  this  is  he  able  to  evaluate  black 
and  yellow,2  to  ring  out  the  sonorous  tones  of  metal  and  jade,3  to  offer 
what  is  appropriate  and  advise  against  what  is  not,  and  thus  to  reach 
what  is  considered  the  mean.4  For  it  is  in  fu-hui  that  we  find  the  lasting 
principle  for  the  organization  of  thought. 

In  general,  a  literary  composition  has  [like  a  tree]  its  branches  and 
[like  a  stream]  its  forks.  To  arrange  the  forks  and  branches  in  order, 
one  must  follow  the  implications  of  the  spring  and  the  trunk.  Simi- 
larly, in  bringing  order  and  unity  into  linguistic  elements  and  ideas, 
one  must  have  a  comprehensive  principle,  by  means  of  which  he  will 
be  able  to  achieve  his  goal  by  ten  thousand  different  routes,  and  give 
coherence  to  one  hundred  different  kinds  of  ideas,  so  that,  for  all  the 
variety  of  ideas,  there  will  be  no  misplacement  of  emphasis  and,  for 
all  the  different  linguistic  elements,  there  will  be  no  confusion;  like 
a  tree,  he  will  be  able  to  send  out  some  shoots  to  meet  the  sunshine 
and  keep  in  reserve  others  which  remain  in  the  shade.  In  this  way  he 
will  achieve  a  close-knit  organization  from  beginning  to  end,  which 
manifests  a  unity  of  external  and  inner  elements.  These  achievements 
constitute  the  art  of  fu-hui,  or  organization. 

The  painter  who  pays  close  attention  to  a  hair  misses  the  portrait, 

2  See  note  2,  Chapter  I.  In  Chapter  XXXI,  this  is  called  hsing-wen,  the  color  pattern. 

3  The  sound  pattern,  second  of  the  three  main  patterns  mentioned  in  Chapter  XXXI. 

4  Liu  Hsieh,  in  a  pithy  sentence,  may  have  expressed  the  four  main  functions  which 
a  literary  piece  may  serve:  philosophical,  ceremonial,  as  memorials,  and  as  a  necessary 
tool  for  the  running  of  government. 


Organization  227 

and  the  archer  who  aims  at  the  very  small  misses  the  wall.5  Preoccu- 
pation with  the  fine  and  small  naturally  involves  looseness  in  the  gen- 
eral structure  of  the  whole.  Therefore,  we  should  bend  an  inch  to  make 
a  foot  straight,  and  bend  a  foot  to  straighten  up  eight;6  in  short,  we 
should  give  up  the  one-sided  cleverness  to  gain  the  beauty  that  is 
all-encompassing.  This  is  the  general  principle  governing  the  planning 
of  a  literary  composition. 

There  is  no  one  definite  way  in  which  a  composition  may  be  de- 
veloped, and  opinions  about  development  are  rather  confused.  To  be 
too  terse  in  treatment  leaves  the  ideas  isolated,  but  to  attempt  too 
broad  a  treatment  results  in  a  verbal  monstrosity;  to  be  too  straight- 
forward will  most  certainly  involve  many  mistakes,  and  yet  to  be  too 
consistently  tentative  will  also  do  harm  to  the  composition.  Further- 
more, people  differ  in  their  natural  talents  and  gifts,  and  in  their  ways 
of  thinking.  Some  plan  their  compositions  from  beginning  to  end  as 
a  whole,  and  some  compose  piecemeal,  adding  at  one  time  a  foot  and  at 
another  an  inch.  But  there  are  few  indeed  who  make  over-all  plans,  in 
comparison  with  the  many  who  use  the  piecemeal  method.  Now  if  the 
writer  loses  sight  of  the  general  principle,  his  language  will  become 
confused;  and  if  his  ideas  are  not  logically  developed,  his  style  will 
seem  dry  and  lifeless.  Only  on  the  basis  of  a  transcendent  knowledge 
of  the  structural  principle  of  the  whole  will  he  be  able  to  achieve  among 
the  different  parts  of  his  composition  a  harmonious  cohesion  as  spon- 
taneous as  that  of  glue  to  wood,  or  stone  to  the  jade  which  it  contains. 
Just  as  a  team  of  four  chargers  may  differ  in  their  strength,  while  their 
six  reins  operate  like  the  strings  of  one  lute  and  they  proceed  abreast 
in  a  formation  as  perfect  as  that  of  the  spokes  gathering  at  one  hub, 
so  in  a  literary  composition  a  similar  method  of  control  must  be  exercised. 
Whether  to  proceed  or  to  stop  is  under  the  control  of  the  mind,  as 
whether  to  loose  the  reins  or  tighten  them  is  under  the  guidance  of 

5  This  is  a  quotation  from  the  Lii-shih  ch'iin-ch'iu  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  chiian 
25,  p.  324,  with  the  order  of  the  two  lines  reversed;  the  original  being,  "An  archer  who 
aims  at  the  minute  misses  the  wall,  and  a  painter  who  pays  close  attention  to  a  hair 
misses  the  portrait." 

6  See  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  22/3B/1.  Hsiin  means  eight  feet. 


228  Organization 

the  hands;  for  all  that  is  necessary  to  insure  the  desired  uniform  pace 
is  to  control  the  reins. 

Therefore,  in  the  hands  of  those  who  are  good  at  organization,  even 
ideas  which  differ  may  be  given  as  close  a  relationship  as  the  liver  and 
the  gall;  and  in  the  hands  of  those  who  are  poor  at  organization,  even 
tones  of  the  same  quality  will  seem  as  vastly  different  as  Hu  and  Yiieh.7 
It  is  more  difficult  to  revise  an  existing  composition  than  to  write  a 
new  one,  and  it  is  more  difficult  to  change  already  written  words  than 
to  write  a  new  sentence.  This  has  been  proved  by  the  experience  of 
writers  of  the  past.  Chang  T'ang  [of  the  Han]  at  one  time  had  his 
memorial  twice  rejected,  and  Yii  Sung  [of  the  Wei]  was  repeatedly 
rebuked  because  of  his;  in  each  case,  the  reason  for  the  writer's  mis- 
fortune lies  in  the  fact  that  his  reasoning  is  not  clear  and  he  is  confused 
in  his  language  and  ideas.  However,  after  Ni  K'uan  had  revised  Chang 
T'ang's  memorial  and  Chung  Hui  had  changed  a  few  words  in  Yii 
Sung's,  Emperor  Wu  was  amazed  by  the  extraordinary  quality  of 
Chang's  memorial,  and  Emperor  Ching  of  the  Chin8  highly  praised 
that  of  Yii.  This  was  because  the  revised  pieces  are  logical  in  reasoning 
and  clear  in  presenting  facts,  and  the  revisers  are  quick-witted,  and 
use  appropriate  language.9  In  these  examples  we  see  the  vast  difference 
between  those  writers  who  are  clever  at  organization  and  those  who 
are  clumsy. 

As  to  stopping  the  brush  and  bringing  a  passage  to  a  close,  it  is  like 
raising  the  oar  while  riding  in  a  boat;  and  fitting  expressions  to  ideas 
is  like  drawing  on  the  reins  while  using  the  whip.  A  writer  who  can 
sustain  the  merits  of  his  piece  to  the  end  achieves  the  expression  of 

7  "Liver  and  gall"  is  a  figure  for  intimate  relationship  and  similarity,  and  "Hu  and 
Yiieh"  for  great  difference.  Hu  and  Yiieh  are  two  barbarian  districts.  These  figures  are 
taken  from  the  Chuangtzu.  See  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  12/5/7:  "From  the  point  of  view  of 
the  different,  even  the  liver  and  gall  would  be  like  Ch'u  and  Yiieh."  Ch'u,  a  state  which 
was  as  different  from  Yiieh  as  could  be  imagined,  is  changed  to  Hu  by  Liu  Hsieh,  with 
no  appreciable  difference  in  sense. 

8  Ssu-ma  Shih,  given  the  posthumous  title  of  Emperor  Ching  when  his  nephew  Ssu-ma 
Yen  usurped  the  throne  of  the  Wei  in  265  and  created  the  Chin  dynasty. 

9  For  Chang  and  Ni,  see  the  biography  of  Ni  K'uan  in  the  Han-shw,  for  Yii  and 
Chung,  see  commentary  to  the  biography  of  Chung  Hui  in  the  Wei-chih. 


Discussion  on  the  Art  of  Writing  229 

profound  ideas  and  a  smooth-flowing,  complete  development  of  the 
style.10  On  the  other  hand,  if  a  piece  starts  with  a  glorious  tune  and 
continues  with  weak  and  spiritless  passages,  it  will  tend  to  suffocate, 
unable  to  let  its  wind  out  fully.  This  is  what  the  Boo\  of  Changes  means 
by  "There  is  no  skin  on  his  thighs,  and  walking  comes  hard."11  If  the 
beginning  and  end  of  a  piece  can  complement  each  other  fully,  even 
the  art  of  fu-hui  cannot  ask  for  anything  more. 

The  Tsan: 
If  a  general  principle  underlies  the  different  parts  of  a  piece, 
And  feeling  is  rich  and  ordered; 
If  it  is  well  begun  and  well  concluded, 
The  branches  well  laid  out  and  the  leaves  spread  well, 
Then  the  piece  will  have  an  artistic  harmony, 
All  the  loose  threads  will  be  gathered  up 
And,  like  harmony  in  music, 
The  sounds  of  the  mind  will  blend  perfectly. 


XLIV.  Discussion  on  the  Art  of  Writing  (Tsung-shu) 


We  find  current  at  present  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  literary  writ- 
ings may  be  classified  under  two  separate  categories:  wen,  or  pat- 
terned, and  pi,  or  unpatterned  prose,  unrhymed  writing  being  pi  and 
rhymed  writing  wen}  Now  pattern  simply  adds  to  the  adequacy  of 
yen,  that  is,  plain  words,  and  generally  includes  both  the  Poetry  and 
the  History.  The  effort  to  make  them  two  different  categories  dates 

10  The  text  is  somewhat  corrupt.  I  follow  Fan  Wen-lan's  reading,  and  accept  at  the 
same  time  suggestions  from  Wang's  reading  in  my  interpretation. 
11 1-ching,  I,  180,  184.  See  also  Chon-i  yin-te,  27/43/4,  27/44/3- 
1  For  the  meaning  of  wen,  see  note  1,  Chapter  I.  Pi  means  a  brush,  symbolic  of  a 
prosaic  writing  which  is  unrhymed.  The  term  "rhyme"  may  mean  only  tonal  arrange- 
ment in  general,  and  need  not  be  taken  to  mean  a  correspondence  of  sounds  in  the  final 
syllable  or  syllables  of  two  or  more  words. 


230  Discussion  on  the  Art  of  Writing 

back  only  a  short  time.  For  example,  Yen  Yen-nien  [or  Yen-chih,  384- 
456]  believed  that  pi  as  a  genre  is  yen  with  pattern,2  that  is,  that  all 
Classics  are  yen  and  not  pi,  while  their  commentaries  are  pi  and  not 
yen.3  We  may  easily  use  Yen's  own  spear  to  pierce  his  shield.4  How? 
Take  the  "Wen-yen"5  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes,  for  example:  is  it  not 
words  with  pattern  ?  If,  according  to  Yen,  pi  is  really  yen  with  pattern, 
then  he  has  no  right  to  say  that  the  Classics  are  not  pu  In  making  the 
above  statements,  Yen  intends  to  establish  a  theory  of  his  own;  but  I 
do  not  see  how  it  can  stand. 

In  my  opinion,  oral  statements  are  plain  words,  and  whenever  these 
are  committed  to  the  brush,  they  are  literary  writings.  And  the  Way 
which  is  constant  is  called  a  Classic,  while  that  which  elucidates  the 
Classic  is  known  as  a  commentary.  The  words  [of  the  sages]  com- 
mitted to  the  brush  form  the  Classics  and  their  commentaries.  The 
brush  is  at  the  service  of  the  words,  and  may  be  either  vigorous  or 
weak.  The  eternal  validity  of  the  six  Classics  lies  in  their  severe  ele- 
gance and  profundity,  rather  than  in  their  literary  qualities.  The 
Wen-fu  of  Master  Lu  [Chi]  has  been  known  for  its  penetrating  and 
exhaustive  discussion  of  the  art  of  writing  but,  in  its  superficial  atten- 
tion to  details,  it  has  not  adequately  dealt  with  the  substance.  For  we 
know  that  if  one  is  able  to  return  to  the  constant  Way  in  all  his  many6 
changing  situations,  he  will  never  be  exhausted;  and  it  is  difficult  to 
be  perfect  in  the  choice  of  good  words.7 

Those  who  are  intensely  interested  in  literary  composition  often  vie 
with  one  another  in  creating  new  and  elegant  phrases.  Most  of  them 

2  Literally,  yen  with  wen. 

3  Yen's  statements  are  not  found  in  his  collected  work.  He  is  making  a  distinction 
between  three  categories:  yen,  plain  words;  pi,  words  with  pattern  but  without  rhyme; 
and  wen,  writing  which  is  rhymed.  In  discussing  the  Classics  and  their  commentaries, 
only  the  first  two  categories  are  relevant. 

4  For  the  use  of  "spear"  and  "shield"  to  mean  contradiction,  see  note  5,  Chapter  XXX. 

5  See  note  11,  Chapter  I. 

6  Literally,  "nine  changes,"  "nine"  used  to  mean  "many." 

7  This  last  statement  is  quoted  from  the  "Wu-ti  chi"  in  the  Han-shu,  which  quotes 
it  from  "Poetry,"  presumably  the  Book,  of  Poetry.  According  to  Ying  Shao,  the  com- 
mentator, this  refers  to  a  lost  poem  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  The  latter  part  of  the  state- 
ment is  aimed  at  the  imperfect  work  of  Lu  Chi. 


Discussion  on  the  Art  of  Writing  231 

are  obsessed  with  the  desire  to  refine  their  linguistic  expressions,  but 
none  wish  to  attend  to  the  fundamentals  of  the  art.  As  a  result,  bril- 
liant jade  is  often  lost  in  a  pile  of  rocks,  while  common  stones  take  on 
the  appearance  of  jade.  A  penetrating  mind  is  concise  and  brief,  yet 
a  mind  that  is  lacking  in  scholarship  is  also  parsimonious  of  words; 
the  erudite  mind  is  comprehensive  in  scope,  but  the  confused  mind  is 
just  as  long-winded;  the  logical  mind  is  clear  and  transparent,  but 
the  mind  which  is  shallow  may  be  just  as  unreserved;  and  the  pro- 
found mind  is  rich  in  connotation  and  difficult  to  fathom,  but  the  mind 
which  is  merely  pretentious  may  also  sound  impressively  archaic. 
Sometimes  splendid  ideas  are  expressed  in  sounds  which  are  somber 
and  feeble;  sometimes  unreasonable  arguments  are  clothed  in  brilliant 
language.  From  such  circumstances  we  know  how  difficult  it  is  to  make 
the  tones  of  bells  harmonious,  and  how  far  from  easy  it  is  to  tune  a  lute. 
Now  the  sizes  of  the  bells  which  musicians  declare  to  be  in  harmony 
need  not  be  absolutely  exact;  neither  need  the  operation  of  the  fan 
be  of  exactly  the  same  pitch  from  beginning  to  end.8  And  Wei-wen 
[or  Ts'ao  P'ei],  in  his  comparison  of  literary  writing  to  music,  is  amply 
borne  out.  The  point  is  that,  as  before  applying  the  blade  of  a  knife 
to  knotted  roots,  we  cannot  prove  the  sharpness  of  the  knife,  likewise, 
before  we  make  an  effort  to  discover  the  secret  of  good  literary  compo- 
sition, there  is  no  way  to  determine  whether  a  given  talent  is  truly 
comprehensive.  To  be  comprehensive,  the  writer  must  be  versed  in 
the  art.  If  he  lacks  either  a  comprehensive  view  of  his  field  or  the 
penetration  necessary  to  make  its  structure  articulate,  how  can  he 
possibly  harness  his  inner  feeling  for  the  triumphant  drive  through 
the  garden  of  literature? 

Therefore,  when  one  plies  this  art  as  the  rein  with  which  he  guides 
his  composition,  he  may  be  likened  to  a  good  chess  player  who  knows 
his  moves  and  the  inevitable  results  of  them.  But  the  one  who  abandons 
the  art  for  the  whims  of  his  own  mind  is  like  a  gambler  whose  success 
is  a  matter  of  luck.  The  gambler's  writing  may  be  clever  accidentally; 

8  The  operation  of  the  fan  seems  to  refer  to  the  tuning  of  a  lute,  the  fan  being  some 
part  of  it.  However,  the  meaning  is  not  clear,  and  the  allusion  has  not  been  identified. 


232  Discussion  on  the  Art  of  Writing 

but  although  his  initial  effort  may  be  successful,  it  is  difficult  to  count 
on  his  being  able  to  continue  with  any  consistent  competency.  He  is 
unable  to  go  on  writing  when  he  has  little  to  write  about;  and  he  will 
also  be  baffled  by  the  problem  of  selecting  and  omitting  when  he  is 
confronted  with  too  much  material.  If  he  is  unable  to  overcome  the 
difficulty  of  having  either  too  much  or  too  little  material,  how  can 
he  be  expected  to  be  able  to  distinguish  between  the  beautiful  and  the 
ugly  ?  The  man  who  writes  as  a  good  chess  player  plays  follows  definite 
principles  of  the  art.  He  moves  in  an  orderly  fashion  according  to 
certain  patterns  as  he  responds  to  emotions,  making  timely  answers  to 
varying  circumstances;  in  a  word,  he  moves  in  perfect  harmony  with 
the  proper  standard.  If  a  writer's  movement  is  perfectly  matched  to 
the  exact  requirements  of  each  situation,  his  natural  responsiveness 
to  the  working  of  the  mysterious  spring  will  find  expression  in  the 
excellence  of  his  work.  In  the  work  of  such  a  writer  we  shall  find 
galloping  in  parade  like  spirited  chargers  a  host  of  brilliant  ideas,  and 
a  clustering  galaxy  of  exquisite  expressions.  To  the  eyes,  it  is  brocade 
or  painting;  to  the  ears,  sonorous  music;  it  is  sweet  and  mellow  in 
taste,  and  fragrant  as  scented  pendants.9  In  these  achievements,  one 
reaches  the  pinnacle  of  literary  writing. 

The  legs  of  a  thoroughbred  may  be  strong,  but  it  will  not  be  able  to 
cover  one  thousand  li  if  the  cords  are  too  long.  The  length  of  the  cords 
is  only  one  factor  among  ten  thousand,  and  yet  it  is  enough  to  cause 
failure.10  How  much  more  surely  will  this  principle  operate  in  the 
case  of  the  literary  composition,  where  also  many  factors  must  work 
in  perfect  harmony;  for  here  the  slightest  weakness  in  any  one  of  them 
will  most  certainly  cause  the  collapse  of  the  whole.  For  this  reason,  I 
have  given  consideration  to  all  these  factors  in  this  chapter,  to  prepare 
the  student  for  all  eventualities.  This  chapter  is  like  the  hub  where  the 
thirty  spokes  converge.  The  view  given  may  not  be  worthy  of  atten- 
tion, but  it  is  my  honest  view. 

9  Referring  to  fragrant  flowers  used  as  pendants. 

10  Chan-kiio  ts'e  (Taipei,  Kuo-hsiieh  chi-pen  ts'ung-shu  ed.)  Vol.  3,  chiian  28, 
Han  3,  p.  54. 


Literary  Development  and  Time  233 

The  Tsan: 
In  the  literary  arena  or  the  garden  of  brushes, 
There  are  ways  and  gates. 

First  attention  should  be  given  to  the  fundamental  thing, 
And  one's  observation  must  penetrate  to  the  source. 
By  the  control  of  the  first  principle  one  controls  the  ten  thousand, 
And  by  harnessing  the  essential  element  one  harnesses  all  the  details. 
Thinking  may  not  have  a  fixed  form, 
But  the  reason  is  absolutely  constant. 


XLV.  Literary  Development  and  Time  (Shih-hsu)1 


As  time  has  passed  and  as  dynasties  have  risen  and  fallen,  literature 
has  developed  from  the  simple  to  the  more  ornate  in  form  as  well  as 
in  content.  It  is  possible  to  trace  this  development  of  feeling  and  ideas 
from  the  earliest  times  to  the  present. 

During  the  time  of  T'ao-t'ang,  that  is,  the  legendary  ruler,  whose 
virtue  was  great  and  whose  influence  was  wide,  country  elders  spoke 
of  his  effortless  government  and  children  sang  of  how  his  guiding 
influence  was  not  consciously  felt  by  the  people.2  When  Yu-yii  Shun, 
another  legendary  ruler  who  came  after  Yao,  succeeded  to  the  rule, 

1  In  this  chapter,  Liu  Hsieh  treats  of  a  literary  principle  which  was  first  enunciated 
in  the  "Great  and  Lesser  Prefaces"  to  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  In  substance  the  theory  is: 
The  literary  forms  and  contents  of  each  generation  conform  to  the  spirit  of  that  genera- 
tion and,  when  changes  take  place  in  the  spirit  of  an  age,  the  literary  forms  and 
contents  are  modified  accordingly.  Liu  Hsieh  emphasizes  particularly  the  moral  and 
political  influence  of  an  age  on  the  character  of  literature. 

2  In  Wang  Ch'ung's  Lun-heng  (Critical  essays),  Lun-heng  t'ung-chien,  8/13D,  we 
find  the  following  quotation:  "During  the  time  of  Yao,  peace  prevailed.  Elders  of  fifty 
years  of  age  played  games  on  the  street.  Spectators  said,  'Great  is  the  virtue  of  Yao.'  The 
elders  said,  'We  start  working  at  sunrise  and  retire  at  sunset,  dig  wells  to  get  our  drink 
and  till  land  to  get  our  food.  What  has  the  effort  of  Yao  to  do  with  us?'"  In  the 
Lieh-tzu,  chiian  4,  Chapter  4,  p.  49,  we  have  the  following  children's  song:  "In  estab- 
lishing the  people  [he,  the  ruler]  allows  every  one  to  develop  to  his  full  capacity. 
Without  consciousness  and  without  knowledge,  they  spontaneously  follow  the  law  of 
the  lord." 


234  Literary  Development  and  Time 

the  government  was  good  and  the  people  lived  an  easy  life;  the  ruler 
composed  the  song  "Hsiin-feng,"3  and  the  ministers  the  song  "Lan- 
yiin."4  Both  of  these  songs  are  extremely  beautiful.  Why  ?  Because  when 
one  is  happy  at  heart,  his  voice  will  be  peaceful. 

In  the  time  of  Great  Yii,  the  land  was  divided  so  that  the  inundation 
might  be  easily  controlled,  and  there  were  songs  telling  of  his  nine 
regulated  accomplishments.5 

Ch'eng-t'ang  was  sage  and  reverent,  and  his  achievements  were  sung 
in  the  "I-yii"  sung.6  At  the  time  of  King  Wen,7  because  of  the  great 
virtue  of  Chi,8  the  "Chou-nan"  lyrics9  expressed  the  hard-working 
spirit  of  the  people  without  betraying  any  trace  of  complaint.  And  the 
influence  of  T'ai-wang10  was  so  beneficial  that  the  songs  collected 
from  Pin11  show  an  enjoyment  of  life  which  does  not  indulge  in 
excesses.  But  during  the  dark  years  of  King  Yu  [781-771  B.C.]  and 
King  Li  [879-842  B.C.]  the  poems  "Pan"12  and  "Tang"13  express  the 
anger  of  the  people.  As  King  P'ing  [770-720  B.C.]  suffered  a  period 
of  decline,14  we  have  the  poem  "Shu-li,"15  which  expresses  sadness 
[over  the  desolation  of  the  old  capital].  From  these  we  know  that  folk 
songs  and  their  contents  change  with  the  changing  times  and,  when 
the  wind  moves  on  the  surface,  waves  are  whipped  up  down  below. 

3  Also  known  as  "Nan-feng."  See  note  10,  Chapter  VI. 

4  The  song  is  given  in  Shang-shu  ta-chuan.  Modern  scholars  tend  to  question  its 
authenticity. 

5  See  note  18,  Chapter  I. 

6  No.  301  in  the  Book,  of  Poetry.  For  sung  as  one  of  the  six  elements  in  Poetry,  see 
note  2,  Chapter  V. 

7  Father  of  King  Wu,  who  established  the  Chou  dynasty. 

8  The  surname  of  King  Wen. 

9  The  first  eleven  poems  in  the  Book  °f  Poetry,  collected  from  a  region  south  of  Chou, 
where  King  Wen's  influence  was  felt. 

10  Grandfather  of  King  Wen. 

11  Pin  was  the  place  where  T'ai-wang  made  his  influence  felt,  and  the  collection 
includes  poems  154  to  160  in  the  Book  °f  Poetry. 

12  Poem  no.  254,  complaining  about  the  misery  under  the  rule  of  King  Li. 

13  Poem  no.  255,  directing  warnings  to  King  Li  concerning  his  corrupt  rule.  Both 
poems  were  directed  toward  King  Li  but,  since  Yu  and  Li  had  always  been  mentioned 
together,  by  force  of  habit  Liu  Hsieh  strings  them  together. 

14  King  P'ing  was  forced  to  move  his  capital  to  Lo-i,  the  present  Lo-yang,  under  the 
pressure  of  the  western  tribes. 

15  Poem  no.  65. 


Literary  Development  and  Time  235 

After  the  Spring  and  Autumn  period,  the  states  warred  among 
themselves  for  distinction.  The  Six  Classics  hid  themselves  in  the  mud 
like  dragons16  and  the  hundred  thinkers  arose  like  gusts  of  wind.  At 
this  time,  Han  and  Wei  gave  all  their  attention  to  strengthening  their 
rule,  Yen  and  Chao  made  expediency  their  principle,  and  the  "Wu-tu" 
and  "Liu-shih"17  formed  the  content  of  the  stringent  code  of  Ch'in. 
Ch'i  and  Ch'u  were  the  only  states  in  which  there  was  any  emphasis 
on  literature.  In  Ch'i  residences  were  built  along  the  main  avenue  to 
house  scholars,  and  Ch'u  enlarged  the  palace  of  Lan-t'ai  to  receive  men 
of  letters.  Mencius  was  treated  as  a  guest  minister  [in  Ch'i]  and  Hsiin- 
ch'ing  [or  Hsiintzu]  was  made  the  magistrate  of  a  district  [in  Ch'u]. 
So  it  was  at  the  Chi-hsia  gate  [in  Ch'i,  where  scholars  gathered]  that 
this  pure  wind  received  its  fanning,  and  in  Lan-ling  [the  magistracy 
of  Hsiintzu],  that  [this  plant]  enjoyed  its  luxuriant  growth.  [In  Ch'i] 
Tsou-tzu  [or  Tsou  Yen]  became  famous  because  of  his  discourse  on 
heaven,  and  the  name  of  Tsou  Shih  rang  far  and  wide  on  account  of 
his  dragon  carving.  [In  Ch'u]  the  poetry  of  Ch'u  P'ing  [or  Yuan] 
was  as  brilliant  as  the  sun  and  the  moon,  and  Sung  Yii's  writing  was 
as  colorful  as  the  clouds  before  the  wind.  A  study  of  their  beautiful 
writing  reveals  that  it  has  the  grace  of  the  ya  and  the  sung.  And  the 
glow  and  dazzle  of  their  extraordinary  thought  is  thus  the  result  of 
the  impressive  success  won  by  the  people  in  the  political  practice  of 
vertical  federation  and  horizontal  alliance.18 

The  Han  dynasty  succeeded  the  [Ch'in],  the  latter  being  the  dynasty 
during  which  books  were  consigned  to  the  flames.  Kao-tsu  [the  first 
emperor,  206-195  B.C.]  stressed  military  affairs;  he  ridiculed  scholars, 
and  paid  no  attention  to  learning.  Although  the  first  step  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  ritual  and  the  codification  of  law  was  taken,  no  attempt 
was  made  to  make  the  Poetry  and  History  objects  of  serious  study. 

16  Dragons  are  expected  to  be  flying  in  the  sky,  their  natural  habitat.  But  there  are 
times  when,  under  adverse  circumstances,  they  have  to  hide  themselves  in  the  mud. 
Pan  Ku  used  the  figure  in  his  "Ta  ping  hsi."  See  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  45,  lib. 

17  The  "Wu-tu"  is  Chapter  49  in  Han-jei-tzu,  and  the  "Liu-shih"  ("six  lice,"  or  six 
harmful  things)  are  mentioned  in  Chapters  4  and  20  in  The  Boo/{  of  Lord  Shang.  Since 
Han  and  Lord  Shang  are  legalists,  these  two  expressions  are  used  to  mean  legalism. 

18  See  note  26,  Chapter  XVIII. 


236  Literary  Development  and  Time 

However,  Kaotsu's  songs,  "Ta-feng"  and  "Hung-ku,"  may  be  con- 
sidered the  works  of  a  genius.19 

From  Emperor  Hui  [194-188  B.C.]  to  Emperors  Wen  [179-157  B.C.] 
and  Ching  [156-141  B.C.],  classical  study  was  in  the  ascendant,  and 
poets  went  into  eclipse.  This  may  be  seen  from  the  frustration  of  Chia  I 
and  the  disappointment  of  Tsou  [Yang]  and  Mei  [Sheng].20 

Emperor  Wu  [140-87  B.C.]  showed  great  respect  for  scholars,  and 
offered  enthusiastic  encouragement  to  the  pursuit  of  learning.  During 
his  reign  rites  and  music  vied  with  each  other  in  brilliance,  and  schol- 
ars competed  in  literary  production.  In  the  Tower  of  Po-liang,  he 
initiated  [the  "round  robin"  type]  of  poetry  with  feasting  as  its  theme;21 
at  the  break  of  the  river  dike,  he  expressed  his  concern  about  the  people 
in  a  poem;  he  sent  a  carriage  with  rush-cushioned  wheels  for  Mei 
Sheng,  and  allowed  Chu-fu  Yen  to  fulfil  his  ambition  to  eat  from 
a  tripod.22  He  elevated  Kung-sun  [Hung]  to  the  top  on  account  of  his 
tui-tse,23  and  expressed  admiration  for  the  memorial  drafted  by  Ni 
K'uan.  [Chu]  Mai-ch'en,  a  wood  carrier,  became  a  wearer  of  the 
brocaded  robe  of  an  official,  and  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju,  who  washed 
dishes,  was  also  clothed  in  embroidery.  [Ssu-ma]  Ch'ien,  the  historian, 
[Wu-ch'iu]  Shou-wang,  Yen  [An],  Chung  [Chiin],  Mei  Kao,  and 
their  group  were  not  only  not  narrowly  limited  in  their  responses  to 
the  imperial  questions,  but  were  also  ever  resourceful  in  their  strictly 
literary  production.  The  strong  literary  enthusiasm  and  beauty  of 
expression  they  manifested  have  never  been  equalled  since  their  time. 

Subsequently,  Emperor  Chao  [86-74  B.C.]  and  Emperor  Hsiian 
[73-49  B.C.]  continued  the  trend  which  had  been  initiated  by  Emperor 
Wu.  Scholars  argued  and  discussed24  [the  problems  of  the  Classics]  in 

19  The  "Ta-feng"  song  is  found  in  his  chronicle  in  Shih-chi,  and  the  "Hung-ku"  song 
in  the  biography  of  Liu-hou,  i.e.,  Chang  Liang. 

20  See  their  respective  biographies  in  the  Han-shu. 

21  See  note  20,  Chapter  VI. 

22  For  Mei  and  Chu-fu,  see  their  respective  biographies  in  the  Han-shu.  Eating  from 
a  tripod  is  a  symbol  of  honored  status  in  the  officialdom. 

23  See  Chapter  XXIV  above,  "Discussion  and  Answer."  Kung-sun's  tui-ts'e  is  found 
in  his  biography  in  the  Han-shu. 

24  Literally,  "galloped." 


Literary  Development  and  Time  237 

the  Shih-ch'ii  palace  [in  51  B.C.],25  and  met  for  literary  purposes  in 
their  leisure  time.  Gathered  together  were  the  great  talents  of  the  time, 
forging  striking  metaphors  in  patterns  of  silk.  At  this  time,  Wang  Pao 
and  his  group  attained  positions  of  honor  as  literary  advisers  to  the 
imperial  court.  Emperor  Yuan  [48-33  B.C.]  and  Emperor  Ch'eng 
[32-7  B.C.]  paid  great  attention  to  charts  and  books,  extolling  learned 
talk  about  jade  powder,26  and  clearing  the  way  that  led  to  the  Chin-ma 
gate.27  At  that  time  Tzu-yiin  [or  Yang  Hsiung]  won  his  reputation 
for  perspicacity  through  his  ability  to  recite  one  thousand  /#,  and 
Tzu-cheng  [or  Liu  Hsiang]  was  given  the  charge  of  editing  and 
collating  the  texts  of  the  Six  Classics — an  achievement  which  may  be 
considered  a  fit  object  of  our  admiration. 

From  the  beginning  of  the  Han  dynasty  to  the  reigns  of  Emperors 
Ch'eng  and  Ai  [6-1  B.C.],  although  the  world  had  seen  the  passing  of 
over  a  hundred  years,28  and  there  had  been  many29  developments  in 
poetic  style,  the  leading  trend  was  to  imitate  the  style  of  the  Ch'u-tz'u. 
The  lingering  influence  of  Ling-chun  [or  Ch'ii  Yuan]  is  still  evi- 
dent here. 

From  the  decline  during  the  reigns  of  Emperors  Ai  and  P'ing 
[A.D.  1-5]  to  the  restoration  of  Emperor  Kuang-wu  [A.D.  25-57], 
great  attention  was  paid  to  the  maps  and  apocrypha;30  consequently, 
literature  was  more  or  less  neglected.  However,  Tu  Tu  won  pardon 
for  himself  with  his  lei,31  and  Pan  Piao  received  appointment  as  a 
magistrate  because  of  his  memorials.  So  although  [Kuang-wu]  did 
not  go  out  of  the  way  to  enlist  scholars,  neither  did  he  completely  for- 

25  See  Chapter  XVIII  above. 

26  In  Wang  Ch'ung's  Lun-heng,  the  term  "yii-hsieh"  (jade  powder)  is  used  to  mean 
"miscellaneous  literary  bits,  not  worthy  of  attention."  See  Lun-heng  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng 
ed.),  p.  276.  Here  the  term  seems  to  mean  just  literary  production. 

27  Where  literary  men  were  housed,  ready  to  answer  the  imperial  call. 

28  Actually,  it  was  more  than  two  hundred  years.  Chinese  literary  men  have  never 
been  exact  in  figures. 

29  Literally,  "nine  changes."  For  the  meaning  of  "nine,"  see  note  6,  Chapter  XLIV. 

30  See  Chapter  IV  above,  "Emendation  of  Apocrypha." 

31  Tu  Tu  was  thrown  into  prison  on  account  of  his  bad  conduct.  Emperor  Kuang-wu 
pardoned  him  when  he  submitted  a  brilliant  elegy  in  memory  of  the  great  Ssu-ma 
Wu  Han. 


238  Literary  Development  and  Time 

sake  them.  The  twin  luminaries,  Emperor  Ming  [A.D.  58-75]  and 
Emperor  Chang  [A.D.  76-88]  had  great  respect  and  love  for  scholars 
and  their  learning.  [Emperor  Ming]  discoursed  on  rites  in  Pi-t'ang32 
[in  A.D.  59]  and  [Emperor  Chang]  held  discussions  on  the  Classics  in 
Pai-hu  hall  [in  A.D.  79].  Wearing  his  brush  [in  his  cap],  Meng-chien 
[or  Pan  Ku,  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Ming]  took  part  in  pre- 
paring the  history  of  the  dynasty;33  and  [during  the  reign  of  the  same 
emperor]  Chia  K'uei  was  given  brush  and  paper  to  draft  a  sung  on 
the  occasion  of  the  auspicious  appearance  [of  divine  sparrows  in  the 
palaces].34  Prince  Tung-p'ing  [or  Ts'ang]  distinguished  himself  with 
his  elegant  writing  [on  rites],  and  Prince  P'ei  [or  Fu]  made  the  gen- 
eral principles  of  the  [Classics]  the  living  issue  of  the  day.  The  rituals 
of  the  imperial  court35  and  the  protocol  concerning  the  foreign  tribes36 
illumined  each  other  with  their  respective  brilliance. 

During  the  period  between  Ho-An  [Emperor  Ho,  A.D.  89-105,  and 
Emperor  An,  A.D.  107-125] 37  and  Shun-Huan  [Emperor  Shun,  A.D. 
126-144,  and  Emperor  Huan,  A.D.  147-167] 38  there  rose  Pan  [Ku], 
Fu  [I],  the  Three  Ts'ui,39  Wang  [Ch'ung],  Ma  [Yung],  Chang  [Heng] 
and  Ts'ai  [Yung],  who  may  all  be  considered  brilliant  scholars;  there 
was  no  lack  of  talent.  But  as  to  literary  pieces  of  high  quality,  we  must 
reserve  our  judgment.  After  the  restoration  [of  the  Han  by  Emperor 
Kuang-wu],  talented  writers  more  or  less  modified  the  traditional 
custom  and,  by  emphasizing  both  the  flower  and  the  fruit,  they  resorted 
to  classical  expressions.  For  after  a  number  of  classical  discussions  under 
past  reigns,  a  scholarly  classical  attitude  gradually  prevailed. 

32  Pi,  a  round  jade  with  a  hole  in  the  center,  is  a  symbol  of  heaven.  Pi-t'ang  is  a 
heavenly  hall,  also  known  as  Ming-t'ang,  one  of  three  halls  completed  in  A.D.  59. 

33  Wearing  the  brush  in  one's  cap  is  a  figure  for  a  historian,  who  appeared  in  court 
with  a  brush  in  his  cap,  ready  to  record  happenings  at  court. 

34  See  the  biography  of  Chia  K'uei  in  the  Hou-han  shu. 

35  This  refers  to  the  rituals  discussed  by  Emperor  Ming  and  those  devised  by  Prince 
Tung-P'ing.  See  Prince  Tung-P'ing's  biography  in  the  Hou-han  shu. 

36  This  refers  to  the  ode  written  by  Chia  K'uei  on  the  gathering  of  the  divine  spar- 
rows, for  the  latter  was  considered  an  omen  for  the  prevailing  of  China's  influence  abroad. 

37  Omitting  Emperor  Shang,  who  ruled  for  a  short  time  in  A.D.  106. 

38  Omitting  Emperor  Ch'ung,  who  ruled  for  a  short  time  in  A.D.  145,  and  Emperor 
Chih,  who  ruled  in  A.D.  146. 

39  Ts'ui  Yin  the  father,  Ts'ui  Yuan  the  son,  and  Ts'ui  Shih  the  grandson. 


Literary  Development  and  Time  239 

Emperor  Ling  [A.D.  168-219]  occasionally  indulged  in  literary 
creation.  He  wrote  Hsi-huang  p'ien,  opening  the  way  for  scholars  to 
gather  together  at  the  Hung-tu  gate  to  write  fu.  Yiieh  Sung  and  his 
group  gathered  together  men  of  shallow  learning  and  vulgar  taste, 
whom  Yang  Ssu  called  Huan  Tou40  [after  an  upstart  minister  of  that 
name],  and  Ts'ai  Yung  compared  to  actors  and  jesters.41  The  trend 
they  created  and  the  works  they  produced  are  not  worthy  of  our 
attention. 

During  the  reign  of  Emperor  Hsien  [A.D.  190-220],  who  was  con- 
stantly forced  to  move  from  one  place  to  another,42  the  fate  of  literary 
men  was  like  that  of  dishevelled  grasses  tossed  about  by  a  furious  wind. 
Only  at  the  end  of  the  Chien-an  period  [A.D.  196-220]  was  there  any 
semblance  of  peace.  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Wei,43  who  was  then  a  prince 
and  prime  minister,  had  a  deep  love  for  poetry;  Emperor  Wen  [or 
Ts'ao  P'ei],  who  was  then  the  heir  apparent,  was  himself  versed  in  tz'u 
and  fu;  and  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao  Chih],  who  was  the  son  of  a  prince, 
wielded  a  brush  whose  style  was  as  brilliant  as  the  sonorous  jade. 
These  three,  important  as  their  positions  were,  all  showed  great  respect 
for  others  who  had  outstanding  literary  talent.  Hence  many  talented 
writers  gathered  around  them  like  vapors  and  clouds.  Chung-hsuan 
[or  Wang  Ts'an]  swore  allegiance  at  Han-nan  [in  the  present  Hu-pei], 
K'ung-chang  [or  Ch'en  Lin]  submitted  himself  at  Ho-pei,  Wei-ch'ang 
[or  Hsu  Kan]  joined  the  entourage  at  Ch'ing-t'u,  and  Kung  Kan 
[or  Liu  Chen]  enlisted  for  service  at  Hai-yii.  And  here  Te-lien  [or 
Ying  Yang]  organized  his  literary  thought,  and  Yuan-yu  [or  Juan  Yii] 
enjoyed  his  art  of  letter  writing.  Wen-wei  [or  Lu  Ts'ui],  Hsiu-po  [or 
Po  Ch'in],  Tzu-shu  [or  Han-tan  Ch'un],  Te-tsu  [or  Yang  Hsiu]  and 
their  group,  goblets  in  hand,  proudly  showed  their  elegant  style  and, 
moving  with  leisurely  grace  while  they  feasted,  formed  songs  with  a 

40  See  Yang's  biography  in  the  Hou-han  shu.  Huan  Tou  was  one  of  the  unruly 
ministers  during  the  reign  of  Yao  and  Shun. 

41  Hou-han  shu,  biography  of  Ts'ai  Yung. 

42  Between  A.D.  190,  when  Emperor  Hsien  ascended  to  the  throne,  and  A.D.  196, 
he  was  forced  to  move  five  times. 

43  See  note  2,  Chapter  XLI. 


240  Literary  Development  and  Time 

swing  of  the  brush,  and  out  of  the  well-ground  ink  created  witty  pieces 
which  served  as  subjects  of  talk  and  laughter.  An  examination  of  their 
writings  reveals  that  most  of  them  are  full  of  feeling.  This  is  because 
they  lived  in  a  world  marked  by  disorder  and  separation,  and  at  a  time 
when  morals  declined  and  the  people  were  complaining;  they  felt  all 
this  deeply  in  their  hearts,  and  this  feeling  was  expressed  in  a  style 
which  is  moving.  For  this  reason  their  works  are  full  of  feeling  and  life. 

During  the  reign  of  Emperor  Ming  [227-239]  the  emperor  himself 
wrote  poetry  and  composed  musical  scores.  He  collected  writers  and 
housed  them  in  the  Ts'ung-wen  kuan  monastery.  Here  Ho  [Yen], 
Liu  [Shao],  and  other  literary  men  vied  to  outshine  one  another. 
Among  the  young  rulers  who  succeeded  Ming,  Kao-kuei  [hsiang-kung, 
or  Mao,  254-260]  alone  was  a  man  of  refinement  and  grace;  his  very 
glance  conveyed  an  impression  of  literary  elegance,  and  the  words  he 
uttered  formed  perfect  essays.  The  period  was  still  under  the  lingering 
influence  of  the  Cheng-shih  period,  so  that  we  find  the  works  light  and 
detached.44  In  this  period  we  find  Hsi  [K'ang],  Juan  [Chi],  Ying 
[Chu],  and  Miu  [Hsi]  galloping  abreast  on  the  thoroughfare  of 
literature. 

During  the  Chin  dynasty,  Emperor  Hsiian  began  to  build  the 
foundation  of  the  dynasty;  Emperor  Wen  and  Emperor  Ching,  who 
followed,  strengthened  the  structure.45  During  their  times  scholars  and 
poets  were  in  eclipse,  as  the  rulers  were  deeply  interested  in  pursuing 
political  intrigues.  When  Emperor  Wu  [265-306]  created  the  new 
Chin  dynasty,  he  received  the  mandate  of  heaven  at  a  time  of  peace. 
But  he  had  never  been  concerned  with  literary  creation.  Later,  both 

44  Cheng-shih,  240-248,  is  a  period  characterized  by  discussions  of  the  Tao  of  Taoism, 
under  the  impact  of  Buddhism.  Metaphysics,  which  had  not  been  the  main  interest  of 
Chinese  scholars,  became  the  central  theme.  This  phenomenon  may  be  explained  by 
the  fact  that  the  period  was  a  period  of  disorder,  and  one  had  to  watch  what  one  said, 
for  one  might  be  involved  in  political  intrigue  by  as  little  as  one  inadvertent  word. 
Metaphysics,  being  a  detached  subject  and  not  likely  to  involve  anyone  in  trouble,  came 
to  furnish  a  facade  behind  which  to  hide  one's  political  allegiance. 

45  Similar  to  the  case  of  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Wei,  these  Chin  "emperors"  never  were 
emperors.  The  title  was  given  to  them  posthumously  by  Emperor  Wu,  who  usurped  the 
throne  from  the  Wei  in  a  manner  almost  identical  to  that  in  which  Wei-wen  usurped  it 
from  the  Han.  See  note  20,  Chapter  XXIV. 


Literary  Development  and  Time  241 

Emperor  Huai  [307-312]  and  Emperor  Min  [313-316]  lived  in  constant 
danger  through  years  of  great  distress.46 

However,  although  [the  royal  personages  of  the  Chin]  were  not 
inclined  toward  literature,  the  period  witnessed  a  large  crop  of  literary 
talents.  Mao-hsien  [or  Chang  Hua]  spread  jewels  with  every  stroke  of 
his  brush,  and  T'ai-ch'ung  [or  Tso  Ssu]  splashed  ink  which  forms 
brocade;  [P'an]  Yiieh  and  [Hsia-hou]  Chan  bloomed  like  a  pair  of 
jades,  and  Lu  Chi  and  [his  brother]  Yun,  those  two  brilliant  spirits, 
stood  out  in  beautifully  patterned  relief;  in  addition,  Ying  Chen,  Fu 
Hstian,  the  three  Changs,47  Sun  Ch'u,  Chih  Yti,  Ch'eng-kung  Sui,  and 
their  group  all  achieved  distinction  in  literary  beauty  and  refinement  in 
style.  Historians  have  consistently  maintained  that,  as  the  Chin  experi- 
enced the  fate  of  a  declining  period,  scholars  living  in  that  period  were 
not  able  to  develop  their  talents  to  the  full.  How  true  this  judgment  is! 
A  fitting  object  for  deep  regret. 

During  his  period  of  restoration  [317-322],  Emperor  Yuan,  an  earnest 
student  himself,  enforced  the  traditional  regulations  concerning  state 
examinations.48  Liu  Wei  and  Tiao  Hsieh,  because  of  their  stringent 
application  of  rules,  were  held  in  great  favor  and  honor  by  the  emperor; 
Ching-ch'un  [or  Kuo  P'u],  because  of  his  quick  wit  in  literary  creation, 
was  promoted  with  special  consideration.  Emperor  Ming  [323-325],  a 
prodigy  [when  a  boy],  loved  to  hold  literary  meetings.  While  on  the 
throne,  he  devoted  himself  untiringly  to  literature.  He  refined  his 
feeling  through  the  writing  of  edicts  and  decrees,  and  exhibited  his 
literary  talent  in  tz'u  and  fu.  Yu  Liang  was  treated  with  something 
more  than  the  consideration  ordinarily  shown  to  an  intimate  relation 
because  of  his  literary  ability;  and  Wen  Ch'iao  won  the  highest  esteem 
with  his  literary  thought.  Devoted  to  promoting  an  interest  in  litera- 
ture, Ming  may  be  considered  the  Han  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Chin 
dynasty. 

46  Both  became  captives  of  the  Huns  and  died  in  their  hands;  Huai  was  captured  in 
311  and  executed  in  313,  and  Min  was  captured  in  316  and  executed  in  317. 

47  For  the  three  Changs,  see  note  40,  Chapter  VI. 

48  Previously,  many  students  recommended  to  take  the  state  examination  had  been 
given  official  appointment  without  the  examination.  See  the  biography  of  K'ung  Tan, 
which  is  included  in  the  biography  of  K'ung  Yii,  in  the  Chin-shu,  chuan  78,  pp.  5b-6a. 


242  Literary  Development  and  Time 

Emperor  Ch'eng  [326-342]  and  Emperor  K'ang  [343-344]  both  died 
young,  and  Emperor  Mu  [345-361]  and  Emperor  Ai  [362-365]  ruled 
for  only  brief  periods.  But  with  the  rise  of  Emperor  Chien-wen  [371- 
372],  deep  interest  was  shown  in  literary  creation  whose  style  was 
characterized  by  purity  and  loftiness.  Subtle  words  and  profound  prin- 
ciples swarmed  over  the  mats  of  the  metaphysicians,49  and  speculative 
thinking  couched  in  brocaded  expressions  sprinkled  the  garden  of 
literature. 

Emperor  Hsiao-wu  [373-395]  had  no  successor;50  and  the  reigns  of 
Emperor  An  [396-418]  and  Emperor  Kung  [419-420]  marked  the  end 
of  the  dynasty.51  During  this  period  Yuan  [Hung],  Yin  [Chung- 
wen],  Sun  [Sheng],  Kan  [Pao],  and  their  group  distinguished  them- 
selves in  literary  and  historical  writing.  They  might  not  have  been 
equally  talented  but,  in  view  of  their  jadelike  characters,  they  all  served 
well  in  state  functions. 

Metaphysical  discussion  was  emphasized  during  the  early  Chin,  and 
reached  its  height  in  the  Eastern  Chin.  Such  discussions  left  their 
influence  upon  the  literary  trends  of  the  time.  For  this  reason,  although 
the  time  was  a  time  of  turmoil,  its  literature  is  characterized  by  calm 
and  serenity  in  both  its  language  and  its  thought.  In  poetry,  Laotzu's 
philosophy  became  the  inevitable  theme,  and  in  fu,  it  was  Chuangtzu's 
ideas  that  furnished  the  content.  It  illustrates  for  us  how  deeply  literary 
development  is  influenced  by  the  course  of  worldly  events,  and  how 
directly  the  rise  and  fall  of  political  powers  bear  on  the  trends  of  litera- 

49  The  Chinese  at  that  time,  like  the  Japanese,  who  absorbed  a  great  deal  of  Chinese 
culture,  sat  on  mats  when  engaged  in  discussion. 

50  Chin-shu,  "Hsiao-wu  chi":  "At  first  [before  the  birth  of  Emperor  Hsiao-wu] 
Emperor  Chien-wen  saw  an  apocryphal  statement  which  ran:  'The  fate  of  the  Chin 
ends  with  Ch'ang-ming.'  At  the  time  Emperor  Hsiao-wu  was  conceived,  Empress  Li 
was  told  by  a  spiritual  man  in  a  dream  that  she  would  give  birth  to  a  boy  and  should 
name  him  Ch'ang-ming.  When  he  was  born,  it  began  to  dawn  in  the  east.  So  the  baby 
was  named  [Ch'ang-ming,  meaning  prosperous  and  bright].  When  Emperor  Chien-wen 
learned  this,  he  sobbed."  In  the  Shih-shuo  hsin-yii,  "Yii-yen  p'ien,"  a  commentator 
gives  roughly  the  same  anecdote,  ending,  however,  in  these  words  of  Emperor  Chien-wen, 
"I  never  anticipated  that  Ch'ang-ming  would  appear  in  my  own  family."  Since,  accord- 
ing to  the  apocryphal  statement,  the  Chin  dynasty  was  to  end  with  "Ch'ang-ming,"  he 
is  said  to  have  no  successor. 

51  Both  were  murdered  by  Liu  Yii,  who  usurped  the  throne  and  established  the 
dynasty  known  as  Liu-sung.  An  was  murdered  in  418  and  Kung  in  420. 


Literary  Development  and  Time  243 

ture.  If  we  adopt  the  method  of  determining  a  given  outcome  by 
establishing  the  source  from  which  it  developed,  it  is  not  difficult  to 
tell  what  the  development  will  be  even  in  the  distant  future,  one 
hundred  generations  hence. 

During  the  [Liu]  Sung  [420-479],  Emperor  Wu  [420-423]  was 
devoted  to  literature,  and  Emperor  Wen  [424-453]  achieved  a  literary 
style  characterized  by  balance  and  grace.52  They  may  both  be  said  to 
have  possessed  high  literary  virtue.  And  Emperor  Hsiao-wu  [454-464], 
a  man  of  great  talent,  created  works  of  a  beauty  comparable  to  the 
patterns  of  clouds.  But  the  years  during  and  after  the  reign  of  Emperor 
Ming  [465-471]  witnessed  the  decline  of  both  literary  form  and 
literary  ideas. 

However,  among  the  gentry,  writers  rose  like  variegated  clouds 
before  a  whirling  wind.  The  Wangs  and  the  Yiians  were  related  by 
ties  wrought  in  [literary  forms  as  beautiful  as]  dragons'  patterns;53  and 
the  Yens  and  the  Hsiehs,  generation  after  generation,  produced  works 
as  wondrous  as  the  colors  of  phoenixes.54  And  there  were  also  the  Hos 
[Ch'ang-yii,  Ch'eng-t'ien,  Shang-chih],  the  Fans  [Fan  T'ai  and  his 
son  Yeh],  the  Changs  [Fu  and  Yung],  and  the  Shens  [Yuen,  Huai-wen, 
and  Huai-yiian],  and  their  innumerable  fellows.  All  these  writers  are 
well  known,  so  I  mention  them  in  passing. 

When  our  august  Ch'i  [479-502]  came  to  rule,  all  good  fortune 
descended  upon  the  virtuous  and  enlightened.55  T'ai-tsu   [479-482], 56 

52  By  "balance"  here  is  meant  a  sense  of  balance  between  content  and  form,  or  ideas 
and  their  linguistic  expressions. 

53  "Dragons'  patterns"  means  beautiful  literary  forms.  According  to  the  Sung-shu,  in 
the  Wang  family  were  Tan,  Shao-chih,  Chun-chih,  T'an-sheng,  Seng-ta,  Wei,  etc.;  and 
in  the  Yuan  family  were  Shu  and  Ts'an. 

54  When  Yen  and  Hsieh  are  mentioned  together,  they  generally  refer  to  Yen  Yen-chih 
and  Hsieh  Lin-yiin.  Here  Liu  Hsieh  must  have  in  mind  the  literary  members  of  the 
two  families.  In  the  Yen  family  we  have  Yen-chih  himself  and  his  two  sons,  Chun  and 
Tz'e;  and  in  the  Hsieh  family  there  were  Lin-yiin  himself,  the  cousin  of  his  father's 
generation  named  Hun,  and  his  cousins  Hui-lien  and  Chan. 

55  Although  Liu  Hsieh  lived  on  into  the  Liang  dynasty  and  is  generally  considered  to 
belong  to  the  Liang,  his  Wen-hsin  tiao-lung  was  completed  in  the  Ch'i  dynasty.  Hence 
his  laudatory  rhetoric  with  reference  to  the  Ch'i  rulers. 

56  T'ai-tsu,  Hsiao  Tao-ch'eng,  was  the  first  ruler  of  the  Ch'i  dynasty.  He  created  the 
dynasty  by  usurpation  in  479. 


244  Literary  Development  and  Time 

sage  and  martial,  received  the  mandate  of  heaven;  Kao-tsu,57  a  man  of 
sagacity  and  literary  quality,  continued  to  further  the  dynastic  fortune; 
Emperor  Wen58  was  brilliant  as  the  two  celestial  luminaries,  and 
bountiful  as  the  manifold  forms  of  earth;  and  Chung-tsung,69  endowed 
with  the  highest  wisdom,  made  further  advances  to  fulfil  the  dynastic 
destiny.  All  these  rulers  were  gifted  with  literary  talent  and  all  were 
men  of  enlightenment;  continuously  brilliant,  they  have  enjoyed  great 
blessings. 

Now  His  Majesty  has  just  begun  his  sage  reign,  and  the  world  is 
bathed  in  the  light  of  his  literary  thought.60  The  deities  of  the  seas  and 
the  mountains  bestow  upon  him  divine  perception,  causing  his  native 
talent  to  flower  forth.  He  drives  the  flying  dragons  through  the  heavenly 
path,  and  harnesses  the  thoroughbreds  for  a  ten-thousand-//  trip.  Works 
on  the  Classics  and  government  institutions  under  his  reign  have  sur- 
passed those  of  the  Chou  and  can  look  down  upon  those  of  the  Han 
with  contempt.  They  are  comparable  to  those  of  the  T'ang  and  the  Yii; 
they  are  works  which  may  be  called  truly  great.  Such  great  style  and 
wondrous  beauty  I  with  my  sluggish  brush  hardly  dare  try  to  depict. 
So  I  leave  it  to  those  who  are  better  endowed  with  insight  and  wisdom 
to  sing  praise  to  the  time. 

The  Tsan: 
Against  the  background  of  ten  dynasties,61 
Literary  trends  have  changed  nine  times.62 
Once  initiated  at  the  central  pivot, 

57  No  Ch'i  ruler  was  given  the  posthumous  title  of  "Kao-tsu."  The  posthumous  title 
of  the  second  ruler  is  Shih-tsu.  It  is  conceivable  that  Liu  made  a  mistake  here.  The 
second  ruler  reigned  from  483  to  493. 

58  He  died  as  heir  apparent  and  was  posthumously  given  the  title  of  Emperor  Wen 
when  his  son,  Yii-lin,  succeeded  to  the  throne. 

59  There  was  no  ruler  in  the  Ch'i  dynasty  who  answers  to  this  title.  It  could  have 
been  Emperor  Ming  (494-498),  who  was  given  the  posthumous  title  of  Kao-tsung,  as 
Fan  Wen-Ian  suggests. 

60  Presumably  referring  to  the  first  years  of  Tung-hun  hou,  499-501. 

61  The  ten  dynasties:  T'ang,  Yii,  Hsia,  Shang,  Chou,  Han,  Wei,  Chin,  Sung,  and 
Ch'i.  Between  the  Chou  and  Han  was  a  short  dynasty,  the  Ch'in,  which  Liu  Hsieh  treats 
as  part  of  the  Chou. 

62  For  the  meaning  of  the  term  "nine,"  see  note  6,  Chapter  XLIV. 


The  Physical  World  245 

The  process  of  transformation  circles  endlessly. 

Literary  subject  matter  and  the  form  in  which  it  is  treated  are  condi- 
tioned by  the  needs  of  the  times, 

But  whether  a  certain  subject  matter  or  a  certain  form  is  emphasized 
or  overlooked  depends  on  the  choice  made  by  the  writers. 

Antiquity,  however  remote, 

Can  be  made  to  display  itself  before  us  like  a  human  face. 


XLVI.  The  Physical  World 


Spring  and  autumn  roll  around,  succeeding  one  another,  and  the  yin 
and  yang  principles  alternatingly  darken  and  brighten.1  When  objects  in 
the  physical  world  change,  our  minds  are  also  affected.  When  the  yang 
principle  begins  to  ascend,  ants  burrow,  and  when  the  yin  principle 
congeals,  the  mantis  begins  to  feed.2  Insignificant  as  these  insects  are, 
even  they  are  affected.  Profoundly  indeed  are  things  moved  by  the 
four  seasons.  Excellent  jade  inspires  the  mind  of  the  intelligent,  and 
glorious  flowers  shower  splendor  upon  the  soul  that  is  pure.  All  things 
exert  influence  on  one  another.  Who  is  there  that  can  rest  unmoved? 
Thus,  as  the  new  year  is  rung  in  and  the  spring  begins  to  burgeon, 
we  experience  a  joyous  mood;  as  the  luxuriant  summer  rolls  by,  our 
minds  become  filled  with  happy  thoughts;  as  the  sky  heightens  and 
the  air  becomes  clear  and  brisk,3  our  hearts  become  darkened  and 
heavy  with  distant  thoughts;   and  when  the  ground  is  covered  by 

1  "The  spring  and  the  autumn"  represent  the  four  seasons.  The  yin  is  the  female 
principle  and  the  yang,  the  male  principle.  According  to  the  cosmology  of  the  Yin-yang 
school,  the  universe  with  everything  in  it  came  into  being  with  the  interplay  of  these 
two  principles.  The  most  obvious  examples  of  the  manifestation  of  these  principles  are 
the  successive  movement  of  the  seasons  and  the  alternate  lengthening  of  night  and  day. 

2  This  is  based  on  the  Ta-tai  li-chi,  "Hsia  shao-cheng  p'ien."  The  yang  principle  begins 
to  ascend  in  the  twelfth  moon,  roughly  at  some  time  in  January,  and  the  yin  principle 
begins  to  congeal  in  the  eighth  moon,  roughly  at  some  time  in  September. 

3  "Lofty  sky  and  clear  air"  always  means  autumn  in  Chinese  literature. 


246  The  Physical  World 

boundless  sleet  and  snow,  our  souls  become  burdened  with  serious 
and  profound  reflections.  Many  different  things  appear  in  the  course 
of  the  year,  and  each  has  a  number  of  phases.  One  responds  with 
varying  emotions  to  these  varying  phases,  and  the  form  of  language 
used  depends  on  the  emotion.  One  single  leaf  may  suggest  something 
significant,4  and  the  chirping  of  insects  is  often  enough  to  induce  an 
inner  mood.  So  how  much  greater  an  influence  will  be  felt  if  we 
experience  a  clear  wind  and  a  bright  moon  on  the  same  night,  or  a 
bright  sun  and  a  spring  forest  on  the  same  morning! 

In  responding  to  things,  the  Ancient  Poets  operated  on  the  principle 
of  endless  association  of  ideas.  They  lost  themselves  in  the  myriads  of 
things,  completely  absorbed  in  the  visual  and  auditory  sensations.  On 
the  one  hand,  they  depicted  the  atmosphere  and  painted  the  appearances 
of  things  in  perfect  harmony  with  their  changing  aspects;  and  on  the 
other,  the  linguistic  and  tonal  patterns  they  used  closely  corresponded 
with  their  perceptions.  For  example:  Shao-shao,  "brilliant,"  is  used  to 
depict  the  brilliance  of  peach  blossoms;  /'-/,  "feeling  of  attachment,"  to 
describe  the  sweeping  willow  trees;  \ao-\ao,  "brightly  burning,"  to 
describe  the  coming  out  of  the  sun;  piao-piao,  "fast  and  heavy,"  to  sug- 
gest an  image  of  rain  and  snow;  chieh-chieh,  "chirping,"  to  imitate  the 
sound  of  orioles;  yao-yao,  "buzzing,"  to  imitate  the  sound  of  insects.5 
Then  again  in  chiao-jih,  "the  bright  sun,"  a  reference  to  fidelity,  or 
hui-hsing,  "little  stars,"  a  reference  to  humility,  each  only  a  simple 
phrase,  the  Ancient  Poets  probe  into  the  depth  of  the  fundamental 
nature  of  things;6  and  with  tsan-tz'u  [describing  the  uneven  lengths 

4  For  example,  the  falling  of  the  first  leaf  in  the  autumn. 

5  All  these  are  taken  from  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  For  shao-shao,  see  Mao  shih  yin-te, 
2/6/1;  for  /'-/,  36/167/6;  for  \ao-kao,  13/62/3;  for  piao-piao,  55/223/7;  for  chieh-chieh, 
1/2/1;  and  for  yao-yao,  3/14/1.  /-/  has  also  been  translated  as  "luxuriant"  (Karlgren), 
"fresh  and  green"  (Legge),  and  "spread  their  shade"  (Waley).  It  seems  to  me  that  these 
renderings  lose  the  emotional  mood  of  a  departing  traveler,  who  looks  on  the  willow 
trees  fondly,  reluctant  to  leave,  and  then  projects  his  emotional  state  onto  the  trees  and 
attributes  to  them  human  feelings  of  attachment.  For  the  traveler,  these  willow  trees  are 
symbols  of  home,  suggesting  by  their  sweeping  manner  the  sweet  and  gentle  atmosphere 
of  home.  Chieh-chieh  and  yao-yao  seem  to  be  cases  of  onomatopoeia. 

6  "Chiao-jih"  is  from  the  Book_  of  Poetry,  poem  no.  73,  a  symbol  of  fidelity;  "hui" 
and  "hsing"  are  not  found  in  such  a  combination,  although  it  is  suggested  by  the 
structure  of  the   line  in  which   "hui"   and   "hsing"  occur  separated   by   a  particle    (see 


The  Physical  World  247 

of  water  plants]  and  wo-jo  [describing  the  glossiness  of  mulberry  trees] 
each  consisting  of  only  two  characters,  the  Ancient  Poets  have  given 
us  perfectly  realistic  descriptions  of  things.7  In  all  these  expressions, 
they  have  used  a  part  to  sum  up  the  whole,  leaving  nothing  whether  in 
their  feeling  or  in  the  appearance  of  things  undescribed.8  In  spite  of  the 
thousand  years  of  thought  that  have  gone  into  this  matter  of  poetic 
diction,  no  alteration  can  be  made  without  difficulty. 

By  the  time  the  Li-sao  came  upon  the  scene,  types  of  description  had 
multiplied,  and  it  was  practically  impossible  to  depict  all  the  aspects 
of  things  with  faithfulness  to  their  nature.  For  it  had  then  been  found 
necessary  to  describe  the  same  things  in  a  variety  of  forms.  So  various 
terms  to  describe  craggy  height,  or  to  describe  luxuriant  growth,  came 
to  be  collected.  Ch'ang-ch'ing  [or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju]  and  his  group 
adopted  a  pretentious  style  and  extraordinary  tonal  patterns,  and  their 
descriptions  of  mountains  and  waters  consist  of  strings  of  words  in 
rows,  like  columns  of  fish.  Such  a  state  of  things  may  illustrate  the 
truth  of  the  statement  that  the  fu  poetry  of  the  Ancient  Poets  is  beau- 
tiful and  yet  well  balanced,  and  their  language  is  terse  and  compact; 
while  the  poetry  of  the  Tz'u  writers  is  beautiful  but  excessive,  and  their 
lines  are  good  examples  of  verbose  diction.9 

In  the  ya  section  [of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry]  the  blossoms  of  the  prunus 
japonica  are  described  as  being  "some  yellow  and  some  white";10  and 
in  the  Sao,  or  Ch'u-tz'u,  the  autumn  orchid  is  described  as  having 
"green  leaves"  and  "purple  stem."11  In  the  application  of  the  five  colors, 
it  is  important  to  keep  in  mind  the  appropriateness  of  different  colors 
seen  at  different  times.  If  green  and  yellow  are  used  routinely,  they 

poem  no.  258),  or  by  two  words  (see  poem  no.  21).  Taken  together,  the  phrase  means 
"little  stars,"  signifying  a  station  of  life  that  is  humble  and  yet  a  necessary  element  in 
the  harmony  of  the  whole. 

7  For  ts'an-tz'u,  see  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  1/1/2,  4,  5;  and  for  wo-jo,  see  ibid.,  13/58/3. 

8  Liu  Hsieh  here  gives  the  first  clear  statement  of  a  synecdoche. 

9  These  last  clauses  are  a  paraphrasing  of  a  statement  given  in  Yang  Hsiung's  Fa-yen, 
"Wu-tzu  p'ien." 

10  "Some  yellow  and  some  white"  is  found  in  Mao-shih  yin-te,  53/214/3.  This  phrase 
is  meant  to  describe  flowers  in  general,  and  not  specifically  the  primus  japonica,  as  stated 
in  Liu  Hsieh's  text. 

11  See  Ch'u-tz'u  (Ssu-k'u  pei-yao  ed.),  chiian  2,  p.  33. 


248  The  Physical  World 

merely  add  to  the  wordiness  of  the  piece  without  accomplishing  any- 
thing of  value. 

Recently,  literary  writers  have  emphasized  realism  in  description. 
They  pierce  through  to  the  inner  structure  of  a  landscape  and  penetrate 
the  appearances  of  plants.  Whatever  their  theme,  they  usually  succeed 
in  expressing  something  deep  and  profound  in  their  poetry.  To  achieve 
perfection  in  the  description  of  things  depends  on  an  intimate  knowl- 
edge of  the  fitness  of  terms  for  certain  specific  descriptive  purposes. 
This  perfect  aptness  of  the  happy  expression  to  the  form  of  things  may 
be  likened  to  the  relation  between  a  seal  and  the  seal  ink  paste,  for 
the  impression  made  reproduces  the  seal  exactly  to  the  minutest  detail 
without  further  carving  and  cutting.  Because  of  such  skill,  we  are  able 
to  see  the  appearances  of  things  through  the  descriptive  words,  or  to 
experience  the  season  through  the  diction. 

Now  the  modes  of  physical  things  have  a  certain  regularity,  but  our 
thinking  is  more  than  a  fixed  routine.  Sometimes  we  achieve  perfection 
through  spontaneous  thinking,  and  sometimes,  for  all  our  laborious 
reasoning,  our  results  are  loose  and  unsystematic.  Furthermore,  what 
is  found  in  the  Boo\  of  Poetry  and  the  Li-sao  seems  to  have  covered 
all  the  strategic  ground,  and  this  belief  has  made  later  writers  afraid 
to  wield  their  own  clever  brushes  in  competition.  They  all  seek  to 
obtain  skill  by  following  in  the  direction  of  the  [Boo\  of  Poetry  and  the 
Li-sao],  and  hope  that  in  accepting  these  patterns  they  may  perchance 
achieve  the  extraordinary  themselves.  For  if  a  writer  is  good  at  adapting 
essentials  to  new  situations,  then,  even  if  the  essentials  are  old,  his 
writings  will  always  seem  fresh. 

The  four  seasons  repeat  their  cycle,  proliferating  forms  in  great  con- 
fusion; but  to  use  them  as  the  elements  of  poetic  allegories  requires 
measure  and  control.  The  physical  world  presents  a  variety  of  colorful 
objects,  but  the  language  one  uses  to  analyze  them  must  be  brief.  Such 
control  of  content  and  language  makes  the  reader  experience  a  sense 
of  exhilarating  lightness,  and  puts  him  in  an  emotional  mood  ever 
refreshingly  new. 


Literary  Talents  249 

The  poets  from  days  of  old  have  always  followed  in  one  another's 
steps  from  generation  to  generation.  They  refer  to  one  another's  ex- 
perience and  effect  their  own  changes,  and  their  success  often  comes 
from  their  being  able  to  both  accept  and  modify  what  has  gone  before. 
When  one  is  able  through  his  work  to  induce  in  the  reader  a  mood 
that  persists  beyond  the  limit  of  the  description  of  the  physical  things, 
he  may  be  considered  a  man  who  completely  understands  the  art  of 
writing. 

Mountains,  forests,  plateaus,  and  plains  are  certainly  the  ultimate 
source  of  literary  thought.  [But  they  are  difficult  to  command.]  For  if 
described  too  briefly,  the  writing  appears  sketchy;  and  if  described 
in  too  much  detail,  it  sounds  wordy.  However,  the  reason  why  Ch'ii 
P'ing  [or  Ch'ii  Yuan]  was  able  to  capture  the  spirit  of  feng  and  sao 
in  the  expression  of  feeling  is  that  he  was  amply  helped  by  his  ex- 
perience of  the  rivers  and  mountains. 

The  Tsan: 
Mountains  rise  one  behind  another,  and  waters  meander  and  circle; 
Trees  interlace  and  clouds  mingle. 
Such  sights  before  the  eyes 
Stir  the  mind  to  express  itself. 
"Spring  days  pass  slowly,"12 
And  autumn  wind  "soughs  mournfully."13 

The  access  of  feeling  for  something  is  described  as  the  giving  of  a  gift, 
And  the  coming  of  inspiration  as  a  response. 


XLVII.  Literary  Talents 


The  literary  output  of  the  nine  dynasties1  is  rich  and  glorious.  In  what 

12  See  the  Boo\  of  Poetry,  poem  no.  154. 

13  See  Ch'u-tz'u,  "Shan-kuei"  and  "Chiu-ke." 

1  In  Chapter  XLV  are  mentioned   ten  dynasties.   As   the   last  dynasty,   during  which 


250  Literary  Talents 

follows  we  shall  discuss  briefly  the  literary  fashions  and  rhetorical  style 
prevailing  in  those  periods. 

During  the  Yii  and  the  Hsia  we  have  Kao  Yao2  who  dwelt  on  the 
"Six  Virtues";3  K'uei,  who  harmonized  the  eight  timbres;4  I,  who 
wrote  a  [monitory]  tsanf  and  the  five  brothers6  who  composed  a  song 
[of  complaint].  Both  in  language  and  in  content,  these  works  possess 
warmth  and  grace,  and  they  constitute  a  veritable  standard  of  literary 
excellence  for  all  time. 

During  the  period  of  the  Shang  and  Chou,  there  were  produced  the 
[apologetic]  "Kao"  of  Chung  Hui,7  the  advice  of  I  Yin,8  and  the  poetry 
and  sung  of  Yin  Chi-fu  and  his  group.9  Their  themes  are,  of  course, 
classical  and,  in  addition,  their  language  furnishes  models  worthy  of 
imitation. 

During  the  Ch'un-ch'iu  period,  ministers  paid  particular  attention 
to  their  language  during  their  diplomatic  missions.  Their  repartee 
scintillates  like  a  garden  of  jade  and  jewels;  it  glistens  and  shines  like 
brocade  spread  out  in  the  market  place.  Wei  Ao  compiled  laws  and 
statutes  for  the  state  of  Ch'u,10  [Shih]  Hui  of  Sui  instituted  rites  for 
the  state  of  Chin,11  Chao  Shuai's  literary  gift  earned  him  a  place  at 

this  book  was  written — the  Ch'i — is  not  included  in  this  chapter,  we  have  only  nine 
dynasties. 

2  The  Boo\  of  History,  Chapter  2.  Kao  Yao  was  a  minister  of  Shun,  to  whom  he 
presented  plans  for  the  government  in  the  "Kao-yao." 

3  These  are  given  in  the  Chou-li:  wisdom,  benevolence,  sageness,  righteousness,  loyalty, 
and  harmony.  See  Chou-li  yin-te,  3 /19a. 

4  K'uei  was  another  minister  of  Shun,  and  he  was  also  a  musician.  The  Boo\  of 
History,  Chapter  2.  For  the  eight  timbres,  see  note  40,  Chapter  VII. 

5  I  was  also  a  minister  of  Shun,  whose  tsan  was  an  advice  to  Shun.  It  is  given  in 
Chapter  3  in  the  Boo\  of  History. 

6  See  note  12,  Chapter  VI. 

7  The  Boo\  of  History,  Chapter  11,  "Chung-hui  chih-kao."  Chung  Hui  was  a  minister 
of  T'ang,  who,  after  vanquishing  the  Hsia  and  putting  Chieh,  the  last  ruler  of  the  Hsia, 
in  exile,  was  smitten  with  remorse  for  his  conduct  against  his  former  lord.  Chung  Hui, 
in  this  "Kao,"  tried  to  justify  T'ang's  conduct. 

8  Entitled  "I-hsun,"  Chapter  13  of  the  Boo\  of  History. 

9  This  sung  simply  means  songs  and  should  be  distinguished  from  the  sung  which 
means  sacrificial  odes  and  is  one  of  the  six  elements  of  the  Boo\  of  Poetry.  The  term 
sung  is  used  because  Yin  Chi-fu  himself  used  this  term  to  refer  to  the  poem  he  wrote. 
See  poems  259  and  260  in  the  Book,  of  Poetry. 

10  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  196/Hsiian  12/3  Tso. 

11  Ibid.,  206/Hsiian  16/Tso,  fu. 


Literary  Talents  251 

the  feast  [given  in  Ch'ung-erh's  honor  by  Duke  Mu  of  Ch'in],12  and 
Kuo-ch'iao  [or  Tzu-ch'uan]  was  enabled  by  means  of  his  mastery  of 
rhetoric  to  defend  Cheng.13 

[During  the  time  when  Tzu-ch'an  was  at  the  helm  of  the  govern- 
ment of  Cheng]  Tzu-t'ai-shu  [won  honor]  because  he  was  graceful 
and  gentle  and  gifted  in  literary  art,  and  Kung-sun  Hui  because  he 
was  adept  in  diplomatic  conversation.14  These  were  the  elite  among 
the  literary  talents  of  the  time. 

During  the  Warring  States  period  the  emphasis  was  on  the  art  of 
war;  however,  there  was  no  dearth  of  men  of  letters.  The  speculative 
writers  drew  upon  philosophical  ideas  as  source  material;  Ch'ii  Yuan 
and  Sung  Yu  exhibited  their  literary  talent  in  Ch'u-tz'u;  Yiieh  I's  reply 
to  [the  king  of  Yen]  is  convincing  and  morally  sound;15  Fan  Chii's 
memorial  to  [the  king  of  Ch'in]  is  thorough  and  penetrating;16  Su 
Ch'in's  arguments  to  win  over  the  rulers  of  the  various  states17  are 
vigorous  and  to  the  point;  and  Li  Ssu's  memorial  [arguing  against 
getting  rid  of  guest  ministers]  is  beautiful  and  persuasive.18  If  these 
writers  had  lived  at  a  time  when  interest  in  literature  was  great,  they 
would  certainly  have  been  the  equals  of  Yang  [Hsiung]  and  Pan  [Ku]. 
And  Hsiin  K'uang  [or  Hsiin-tzu],  a  literary  lion,  called  his  descrip- 
tions of  things  fu;  in  these  fu  he  achieved  a  balance  between  substance 

12  Ch'ung-erh,  the  chief  contender  to  the  throne  of  Chin,  fled  his  country  and  went  to 
Ch'in  on  account  of  internal  chaos.  He  returned  to  power  with  the  blessing  of  Ch'in  in 
636  B.C.  Chao  Shuai,  one  of  the  followers  who  fled  with  Ch'ung-erh,  was  known  for 
his  literary  ability.  Literary  ability  at  this  time  meant  the  ability  to  carry  on  a  conversa- 
tion properly  during  state  functions,  without  violating  any  social  or  political  taboo.  One 
of  the  qualifications  was  to  be  able  to  recite  appropriate  poems  to  express  delicate  ideas. 

13  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  307/Hsiang  25/7  Tso  fu  2.  See  Chapter  II,  above. 

14  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  336/Hsiang  31 /Tso  fu  6. 

15  Yiieh  I,  originally  a  general  of  Yen,  was  alienated  from  the  King  of  Yen  and  fled 
to  Chao,  where  he  was  enfeoffed  Lord  of  Wang-shu.  Then  the  King  of  Yen  regretted  it 
and  sent  a  letter  to  Yiieh  I,  requesting  him  to  return  to  Yen.  In  his  reply,  Yiieh  I 
explained  with  a  great  deal  of  moral  conviction  why  he  could  not  return  to  Yen. 

16  See  his  biography  in  the  Shih-chi. 

17  Before  Su  Ch'in  was  entrusted  with  the  government  of  the  six  states  in  a  vertical 
federation  against  the  state  of  Ch'in,  he  had  to  travel  from  one  state  to  another  to 
convince  their  rulers  of  the  serious  consequences  of  not  forming  an  alliance  in  the  face 
of  the  ever-expanding  Ch'in.  Shih-chi,  chiian  69. 

18  Li's  memorial  is  in  the  Wen-hsiian. 


252  Literary  Talents 

and  literary  form  which  made  him  the  finest  of  the  Confucian  writers.19 
Under  the  House  of  Han,  Lu  Chia  was  the  first  to  produce  works 
of  wondrous  beauty.  He  wrote  a  fu  on  "Meng-ch'un,"20  and  produced 
the  Hsin-yii.21  In  both  he  showed  a  wealth  of  argumentative  talent. 
Chia  I,  an  outstanding  talent,  was  quicker  of  wit  than  a  courser  is  fleet 
of  foot.  His  reasoning  is  sound  and  his  fu  pure.  He  has  not  achieved 
his  fame  without  merit.  The  "Ch'i-fa"  of  Mei  Sheng22  and  the  memorial 
to  [Prince  Hsiao  of  Liang]  by  Tsou  Yang23  are  the  work  of  brushes 
which  are  both  brilliant  and  smooth;  they  express  the  souls  of  the 
writers  in  moving  language.  Tung  Chung-shu  was  a  devoted  Con- 
fucian, and  Tzu-ch'ang  [or  Ssu-ma  Ch'ien]  a  perfect  historian.  Their 
works,  as  beautiful  as  embroidery,  may  be  compared  to  the  lamentations 
of  the  Ancient  Poets.24  [Ssu-ma]  Hsiang-ju,  an  avid  reader,  modeled 
his  writing  on  that  of  [Ch'ii]  Yuan  and  [Sung]  Yii.  He  has  entered 
into  the  realm  of  beauty,  and  won  the  acclaim  of  a  poet  laureate. 
However,  if  one  tries  to  analyze  his  ideas  with  any  degree  of  thorough- 
ness, one  will  find  that  his  reasoning  is  too  weak  for  his  literary  form. 
It  is  this  which  evoked  from  Yang  [Hsiung]  the  statement,  "Ch'ang- 
ch'ing  [or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju]  is  one  whose  writing,  though  beautiful, 
is  of  little  use."25  This  judgment  is  sound  indeed.  Wang  Pao's  rhetoric 
is  characterized  by  its  tight  structure  and  artful  expressions.  His  inti- 
mate descriptions  of  sights  and  sounds  make  his  works  light  and 
readable.  Tzu-yiin   [or  Yang  Hsiung]   may  be  considered  the  most 

19  Hsuntzu  wrote  "Fu-p'ien,"  in  which  he  treats  of  "Li"  [Rites],  "Chih"  [Knowledge], 
"Yun"  [Clouds],  "Ts'an"   [Silkworm],  etc.  See  Chapter  26  in  the  Hsiintzu,  pp.  313-20. 

20  "The  First  Month  in  Spring,"  now  lost. 

21  A  work  propounding  mainly  Confucian  principles. 

22  See  note  2,  Chapter  XIV. 

23  Tsou  Yang  was  from  Ch'i,  in  what  is  presently  Shangtung.  He  came  to  Liang,  in 
what  is  now  Honan,  with  the  purpose  of  getting  an  appointment  from  the  prince.  His 
literary  talent  aroused  jealousy  at  the  prince's  court,  and  he  was  thrown  into  prison. 
The  memorial  to  the  prince  written  in  prison  not  only  saved  his  neck,  but  made  him 
an  honored  guest  of  the  prince.  See  his  biography  in  the  Han-shu. 

24  Both  wrote  fu  on  the  theme  of  the  frustration  of  scholars. 

25  This  line  is  found  in  Yang  Hsiung's  Fa-yen,  "Chiin-tzu  (chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.), 
p.  38.  The  idea  may  also  be  seen  in  the  following  quotation  from  "Wu-tzu  p'ien":  "If 
Confucius  had  included  fu  as  one  of  the  departments  [of  studies],  Chia  I  may  be  con- 
sidered as  having  ascended  the  hall,  and  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  as  having  entered  the 
chamber.  However,  their  trouble  is  that  their  works  are  of  little  use."  Ibid.,  p.  4. 


Literary  Talents  253 

profound  both  in  the  language  he  employs  and  the  themes  he  treats. 
His  ability  to  couch  his  brilliant  thought  in  firm  language  is  due  to  his 
ideas,  which  are  both  sagacious  and  profound;  to  his  relentless  search 
for  wondrous  and  beautiful  expressions;  and  to  his  untiring  effort  to 
think  things  through.  Huan  T'an's  works  have  been  acclaimed  as  being 
as  rich  as  I  Tun,26  and  Sung  Hung  has  compared  him  to  [Ssu-ma] 
Hsiang-ju  in  his  recommendation.27  However,  judged  on  the  basis  of 
his  ju  on  the  Palace  of  Chi-ling  and  other  works,  he  is  definitely  shal- 
low and  lacking  in  talent.  This  proves  that  a  writer  who  excels  at 
satire  and  parable  may  not  be  able  to  write  rhetorical  pieces.  Ching- 
t'ung  [or  Feng  Yen]  loved  to  write,  and  when  he  met  with  frustration 
in  a  time  of  prosperity,  he  wrote  a  fu  to  express  his  inner  thoughts. 
Such  a  piece  may  be  compared  to  a  pearl,  which  is  produced  as  the 
oyster  becomes  diseased.  The  two  Pan  [Piao  and  his  son  Ku]  and  the 
two  Liu  [Hsiang  and  his  son  Hsin]  exhibited  great  literary  talent  in 
two  successive  generations.  According  to  an  old  opinion,  Ku  was  said 
to  excel  Piao  in  literary  quality,  and  Hsin  to  excel  Hsiang  in  scholar- 
ship. However,  [Pan  Piao's]  "Wang-ming"  is  clear  and  convincing, 
and  [Liu  Hsiang's]  "Hsin-hsii"  comprehensive  and  well  organized. 
A  piece  of  jade,  however  exquisite,  owes  its  origin  to  the  jade-producing 
Mount  K'un-kang,  and  as  a  product  it  would  be  rather  difficult  for  it 
to  excel  its  source.  Fu  I  and  Ts'ui  Yin  attained  equal  brilliance  of  style, 
and  [Ts'ui  Yin's  son]  Yuan  and  [his  son]  Shih  ably  continued  the 
family  tradition.  Tu  Tu  and  Chia  K'uei  both  won  fame  in  the  literary 
world,  but  their  works  mark  the  beginning  of  the  end  of  the  trend 
that  originated  with  Ts'ui  [Yin]  and  Fu  [I].  Li  Yu  aimed  high  in 
his  writing  of  fu  and  ming  but,  lacking  in  talent  and  vigor,  he  finally 
folded  his  wings,  unable  to  fly.  Ma  Yung,  a  great  scholar  of  penetrating 
thought  and  wide  learning,  wrote  in  the  tradition  of  the  Classics,  and 
in  his  work  flowers  and  fruits  support  each  other.  Wang  I  was  erudite 

26  A  Chinese  Croesus,  living  in  the  state  of  Lu  during  the  Chou  time.  He  was  origi- 
nally a  poor  scholar,  but  later  grew  rich  through  his  activity  in  selling  salt  and  in 
other  trade. 

27  According  to  Sung  Hung's  biography  in  the  Hou-han  shu,  he  compared  Huan  T'an 
to  Yang  Hsiung  and  Liu  Hsiang  and  his  son  Hsin,  and  not  to  Hsiang-ju. 


254  Literary  Talents 

and  learned,  and  achieved  beauty  of  pattern,  but  lacked  strength. 
[His  son]  Yen-shou  furthered  his  ambition,  and  achieved  outstanding 
beauty  in  his  work.  His  descriptive  ability  recalls  the  masterful  hand 
of  Mei  Sheng.  Chang  Heng,  learned  and  brilliant,  and  Ts'ai  Yung, 
penetrating  and  graceful,  two  beacons  in  two  generations,  won  equal 
distinction  in  both  literary  and  historical  writing.  They  may  have 
differed  in  their  hearts  as  the  bamboo  and  cypress  differ  in  their  texture, 
but  they  are  equally  firm;  and  they  may  have  differed  in  their  substance 
as  gold  and  jade  differ  in  their  nature,  but  they  are  both  treasures. 
The  tsou  and  i  of  Liu  Hsiang  convey  an  earnestness  of  purpose,  al- 
though easy  in  tempo;  the  poetry  of  Chao  I,  however,  overburdened 
with  ideas,  is  incoherent  and  loose;  K'ung  Yung  shows  great  vigor 
in  the  field  of  pi,  and  Ni  Heng  is  adroit  in  the  writing  of  wen.  Each 
of  these  four  writers  has  his  own  merit.  P'an  Hsu  owes  the  ability  he 
displays  to  the  support  of  the  Classics,  and  therefore  his  conferment 
edict  is  the  outstanding  specimen  of  its  type;28  Wang  Lang,  sensitive 
and  articulate,  did  well  for  himself  in  the  realm  of  hsu  and  ming. 
Writers  before  the  time  of  Ch'ing  [or  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju]  and  Yuan 
[or  Wang  Pao]  mostly  wrote  out  of  their  natural  inclinations,  and 
seldom  took  advantage  of  the  experience  of  others;  but  after  the  time 
of  [Yang]  Hsiung  and  [Liu]  Hsiang,  many  writers  began  to  quote 
the  works  of  past  authors  to  help  them  in  their  own  writing.  It  is  at 
this  point  that  we  find  the  line  drawn  between  those  who  take  and 
those  who  give,  a  distinction  which  we  should  not  allow  to  become 
blurred  in  our  minds. 

The  writing  of  Wei-wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  is  the  work  of  a  fine  talent, 
and  is  distinguished  by  a  style  which  is  pure  and  beautiful.  But  he  is 
depreciated  by  many  writers,  who  believed  that  he  is  a  thousand  It 
behind  [Ts'ao]  Chih.  It  is  true  that  Tzu-chien  [or  Ts'ao  Chih],  quick 
in  thinking  and  outstanding  in  talent,  writes  beautiful  poetry  and  fine 
memorials,  and  Tzu-huan  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei],  because  he  is  thorough  in 
deliberation  and  slow  in  execution,  is  unable  to  compete  with  him  in 
speed.  But  Ts'ao  P'ei's  yueh-fu  songs  are  pure  and  exquisite,  and  his 

28  See  note  22,  Chapter  XIX. 


Literary  Talents  255 

Tien-lun  [lun-wen]  is  logical  and  to  the  point;  his  critical  judgment, 
furthermore,  is  certainly  far  from  pointless.29  Since  people  in  general 
repeat  the  opinions  of  others  in  making  their  own  judgments,  it  is 
probable  that  many  have  been  influenced  by  those  who  depreciated 
the  talent  of  Wen-ti  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  because  he  occupied  the  position  of 
highest  honor,  and  tended  to  overrate  the  talent  of  Prince  Ssu  [or  Ts'ao 
Chih]  because  he  was  persecuted  by  his  [emperor-brother].30  Such 
judgment  cannot  be  held  to  be  valid. 

Chung-hsiian  [or  Wang  Ts'an],  phenomenally  talented,  is  both 
adroit  and  thorough;  most  of  his  works  are  good  in  every  way,  seldom 
marred  by  any  rhetorical  faults.  Judging  him  on  the  basis  of  his  poetry 
and  fu,  we  must  rank  him  at  the  top  among  the  Seven  Masters  [of  the 
Chien-an  period].  [Ch'en]  Lin  and  [Juan]  Yii  are  known  for  their 
fu  [or  tally]  and  hsi  [or  proclamation];  Hsu  Kan  is  praised  for  his 
fu  and  lun;  Liu  Chen  couches  his  deep  feeling  in  brocaded  rhetoric; 
Ying  Yang  succeeds  on  the  strength  of  his  sound  scholarship;  Lu  Ts'ui 
[?-2i4]  and  Yang  Hsiu  [173-219]  are  versed  in  the  art  of  writing  mem- 
oirs; Ting  I  [?-20o]  and  Han-tan  [Ch'un,  132-?]  exhibit  beauty  in  the 
writing  of  essays.  All  of  these  writers  may  be  numbered  among  the 
best. 

Liu  Shao's  "Chao-tu  fu"31  may  be  compared  with  the  fu  of  earlier 
writers,  and  Ho  Yen's  "Ching-fu-tien  fu"32  is  a  beacon  to  young  writers 
to  come.  Hsiu-lien  [or  Ying  Chii],  characterized  by  purity  of  style, 
pours  forth  his  feelings  in  the  "Po-i,"33  and  Chi-fu  [or  Ying  Chen], 
well-versed  in  rhetoric,  spreads  out  his  variegated  pattern  in  his  "Lin- 
tan  fu."34  Hsi  K'ang's  essays  express  the  mind  of  a  master  artist,  and 
Juan  Chi's  poetry  is  permeated  with  his  whole  spirit  and  life.  Together, 
these  writers  compose  a  symphony  of  different  sounds  and  fly  in  perfect 
formation,  although  each  has  a  unique  pair  of  wings. 

29  The  critical  judgment  mentioned  here  apparently  refers  to  his  critical  remarks  about 
the  Seven  Masters  of  the  Chien-an  period  in  his  Tien-lun  lun-wen. 

30  There  was  a  great  deal  of  undercurrent  friction  between  the  two  brothers,  Ts'ao 
Chih  being  the  victim  and  Ts'ao  P'ei  the  persecutor.  Liu  Hsieh  is  expressing  an  opinion 
common  to  many  literary  critics,  that  people's  judgment  about  the  literary  quality  of 
the  two  brothers  is  greatly  influenced  by  their  sympathy  for  the  victim. 

31  See  note  12,  Chapter  XXXVIII.  32  See  Wen-hsiian,  chuan  11. 
33  See  note  39,  Chapter  VI.                               3*  See  l-wen  Ui-chii,  chuan  8. 


256  Literary  Talents 

The  short  pieces  of  Chang  Hua  sparkle  brilliantly,  pure  and  smooth. 
His  "Chiao-liao  fu"35  is  as  great  an  allegorical  piece  as  Han  Fei's 
"Shuo-nan."36  Tso  Ssu,  an  extraordinary  talent,  is  a  man  of  profound 
thought.  His  whole  life  and  spirit  is  spent  without  reserve  in  the  writing 
of  the  "San-tu-fu,"37  in  which  he  distinguishes  himself  in  his  treatment 
of  historical  themes.  P'an  Yiieh,  quick-witted,  has  a  smooth,  flowing 
style.  He  gives  his  best  in  the  writing  of  the  "Hsi-cheng  fu,"38  yet  has 
energy  to  spare  to  devote  to  the  writing  of  the  ai,  or  lament,  and  lei, 
or  elegy.  His  art  [is  the  result  of  his  native  endowment  and]  is  not  due 
to  external  influences.  Lu  Chi  has  a  natural  tendency  to  probe  deeply 
into  the  secret  of  things,  and  seeks  in  his  language  to  adopt  all  available 
patterns.  Therefore,  he  is  able  to  couch  his  ideas  in  artistic  form. 
However,  he  fails  to  check  his  inclination  toward  verbosity.  Shih-lung 
[or  Lu  Yiin]  is  lucid  and  well-disciplined,  and  manages  to  bring  order 
out  of  confusion  through  a  wide  range  of  knowledge.  So  he  is  able  to 
achieve  freshness  and  purity  of  style.  He  is  particularly  keen  in  the 
art  of  writing  short  pieces.  Sun  Ch'u  organizes  his  thoughts  with 
direct  relevance  to  the  situation;  and  Chih  Yu  expresses  his  feelings 
with  warmth  and  grace,  always  in  conformity  to  the  best  literary 
standard.  Yii's  attempt  to  evaluate  and  classify  literary  works  is  system- 
atic and  sound.  Fu  Hsiian's  writing  is  filled  with  exhortations;  while 
the  memorials  of  Ch'ang-yii  [or  Fu  Hsien]39  are  characterized  by 
resolution  and  integrity.  Both  possess  the  character  of  [Liu]  Chen  and 
[Hsu]  Kan,  but  neither  may  serve  as  brilliant  stem  and  calyx  for 
flowers.  Ch'eng-kung  Tzu-an  [or  Ch'eng-kung  Sui]  wrote  the  most 
beautiful  fu  of  his  time,  and  Hsia-hou  Hsiao-ju  [or  Hsia-hou  Chan] 
produced  works  which  are  all  Classics  in  miniature.  Ts'ao  Shu  is  pure 
and  beautiful  in  his  long  pieces,  and  Chi-ying  [or  Chang  Han],  clear- 
cut  in  his  short  rhymes.  Each  of  these  writers  has  his  good  point. 

35  Chiao-liao  are  tiny  birds  which,  in  spite  of  their  size,  are  completely  self-sufficient. 
As  their  small  size  renders  them  useless,  they  are  spared  as  other  more  useful  birds, 
such  as  peacocks,  are  not.  Developing  the  idea  of  equality  first  propounded  by  Chuangtzu, 
Chang  draws  a  lesson  from  the  existence  of  the  chiao-liao.  For  the  fu,  see  Wen-hsiian, 
chiian  13. 

36  Han-fei-tzu,  chiian  4,  Chapter  13.  37  See  note  6,  Chapter  XXVI. 
38  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  10.                                    39  Fu  Hsiian's  son. 


Literary  Talents  257 

Meng-yang  [or  Chang  Tsai]  and  Ching-yang  [or  Chang  Hsieh]  are 
equals  in  literary  talent,  comparable  to  the  states  of  Lu  and  Wei,  for 
theirs  are  the  works  of  literary  equals.40  The  works  of  Liu  K'un  [270- 
317]  are  characterized  by  grace  and  vigor,  effervescing  with  spirit,  and 
those  of  Lu  Shen  [284-350]  are  expressive  in  feeling  and  lucid  in 
presentation  of  ideas.  These  qualities  came  as  natural  consequences  of 
the  conditions  of  the  time.  Ching-ch'un's  [or  Kuo  P'u's]  beautiful 
pieces  crown  the  literary  production  of  the  period  of  restoration;  his 
"Chiao-fu"  is  splendid  and  grand,  and  his  poems  on  immortality  invoke 
in  the  mind  of  the  reader  a  feeling  of  lightness,  as  if  he  were  floating 
and  soaring — riding  on  the  clouds.41  Yii  Yiian-kuei's  [or  Yii  Liang's] 
memorials  are  neat  and  close-knit,  written  in  a  spirit  calm  and  free; 
and  Wen  T'ai-chen's  [or  Wen  Ch'iao's]  memoir  is  reasonable  and 
readable.  Both  are  fine  artists  in  writing.  Sun  Sheng  and  Kan  Pao  are 
at  their  best  in  historical  works  patterned  after  the  classical  tien  and 
hsun.  As  literary  architects  they  may  have  different  ideas  about  the 
positions  of  doors  and  windows,  but  about  the  general  artistic  pattern 
they  more  or  less  agree. 

Yuan  Hung  drives  his  chariot  wildly,  holding  his  head  high  in  the 
air;  hence  his  work  is  unique  but  rather  lame;  Sun  Ch'o  closely  fol- 
lows the  trodden  rut,  producing  works  which  are  systematic  but 
unexciting;  Yin  Chung-wen's  "Ku-hsing"  and  Hsieh  Shu-yuan's 
[or  Hsieh  Hun's]  "Hsien-ch'ing"  are  examples  which  illustrate  the 
decline  of  poetry  into  vain  and  disconnected  sounds.  Although  they 
may  exhibit  a  high  degree  of  lyricism,  they  do  violence  to  the  principle 
of  literature. 

With  respect  to  the  talents  of  the  [Liu]  Sung  dynasty,  all  we  need 
say  is  that  the  literary  production  is  profuse.  As  these  works  have  been 
produced  recently,  they  are  easy  to  understand,  and  I  shall  not  include 
them  in  my  treatment. 

The  forest  of  talents  of  the  Later  Han  is  comparable  to  that  of  the 

40  Literally,  "literary  brothers."  Lu  and  Wei  were  brother  states;  Lu  was  the  fief  of 
the  Duke  of  Chou,  and  Wei  that  of  K'ang-shu,  both  younger  brothers  of  King  Wu. 

41  Seven  poems  on  immortality  by  Kuo  P'u  are  included  in    Wen-hsiiati,  chiian  21. 


258  Literary  Talents 

Western  Capital  [i.e.,  the  Former  Han];  and  the  garden  of  literature 
of  the  Chin  is  equal  in  beauty  to  that  of  Yeh-tu.42  However,  during 
the  Wei  dynasty  the  literary  world  always  referred  to  the  Yiian-feng 
period  [1 10-105  B.C.]  as  the  period  in  which  literary  development 
reached  its  height;  in  the  [Liu]  Sung  dynasty,  it  was  the  Chien-an 
period  [A.D.  196-220]  which  was  the  subject  of  common  admiration. 
Why?  Because  these  were  the  golden  ages  when  literature  was  re- 
spected, the  periods  of  gracious  patronage  under  which  talented  writers 
were  gathered  together.  The  Ancients  did  not,  then,  emphasize  the 
spirit  of  time  without  reason.43 

The  Tsan: 
Rare  indeed  is  talent! 

Each  individual  is  unique  in  his  natural  gift. 
If  for  once  one  succeeds  in  producing  a  talented  piece, 
We  have  a  brocaded  work  which  will  last  a  thousand  years; 
The  wonderful  patterns  he  leaves  behind  will  perpetuate  themselves 
By  profoundly  influencing  future  styles. 
The   work  of  the  talented  man   will  be   free  from   admixture   and 

adulteration, 
Pure  and  bright,  a  fit  object  for  an  appreciative  eye. 


XLVIIL  An  Understanding  Critic  (Chih-Yin)1 


It  is  indeed  difficult  to  find  an  understanding  critic  of  personal  thought. 
It  is  true  that  personal  thought  is  intrinsically  difficult  to  understand; 
but  what  is  still  more  difficult  is  to  find  someone  who  possesses  real 

42  Capital  of  the  Wei  dynasty. 

43  The  spirit  of  time  is  repeatedly  emphasized  in  the  Boo\  of  Changes.  See  Chou-i 
yin-te,  5/4/t'uan;  44/hsi,  Shang/n;  45/hsi,  hsia/i;  and  many  others.  And  Mencius 
presented  to  Confucius  the  title  of  "The  Sage  of  Timeliness."  Meng-tzu  yin-te,  39/5B/1. 

1  Literally,  "Chih-yin"  means  one  who  understands  music,  that  is,  one  who  has  a 
sympathetic  ear.  By  extension,  it  comes  to  mean  an  understanding  friend. 


An  Understanding  Critic  259 

understanding.  Hardly  once  in  a  thousand  years  do  we  happen  upon 
an  understanding  critic.  The  [so-called]  understanding  critics  have 
since  time  of  old  despised  their  contemporaries  and  devoted  themselves 
to  those  who  have  passed  into  antiquity,  just  as  it  is  said,  "One  disdains 
to  harness  the  horses  which  are  presented  to  him  every  day,  but  dreams 
of  using  those  whose  neighing  he  hears  from  a  distance."2 

When  [Han  Fei's]  "Ch'u-shuo"3  first  appeared,  the  first  emperor  of 
the  Ch'in  expressed  great  regret  for  not  being  Han's  contemporary;4 
and  Emperor  Wu  of  the  Han  felt  the  same  way  about  [Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju]  when  he  first  read  Hsiang-ju's  "Tzu-hsii  fu."5  But  once 
it  was  known  that  they  were  contemporaries,  Han  [Fei]  was  thrown 
into  prison  and  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  lightly  regarded.  Are  these  not  clear 
examples  of  the  contempt  in  which  contemporaries  are  usually  held? 

Then  there  were  Pan  Ku  and  Fu  I,  whose  achievements  in  literary 
writing  are  about  equal,  and  yet  Pan  Ku  ridiculed  Fu  I  and  said,  "Once 
he  starts,  he  does  not  know  how  to  stop."6  And  Ch'en-ssu  [or  Ts'ao 
Chih],  in  his  discussion  of  talent,  also  severely  criticized  K'ung-chang 
[or  Ch'en  Lin].  But  to  the  request  of  Ching-li  [or  Ting  I,  ?-22o]7  that 
Ts'ao  Chih  polish  his  writing,  Ts'ao  responded  with  a  word  of  praise 
for  him.  Then  there  was  [Liu]  Chi-hsu,  not  a  great  writer  himself, 
who  loved  to  criticize,  and  was  compared  to  T'ien  Pa  by  Ts'ao  Chih.8 

2  Quoted  from  the  Kuei-\u-tzu.  See  T'ao  Tsung-i,  Shuo-fu,  chiian  71,  p.  1 6a. 

3  See  Han-fei-tzu,  Chapters  30-35. 

4  This  was  before  the  emperor  knew  that  Han  Fei  was  actually  his  contemporary. 
But  when  he  found  that  out  and  succeeded  in  getting  him  to  his  court,  he  promptly 
threw  him  into  prison  on  the  advice  of  the  jealous  Li  Ssu.  By  the  time  the  emperor 
realized  his  mistake,  Han  Fei  had  already  been  poisoned  by  order  of  Li  Ssu. 

5  See  the  biography  of  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju  in  the  Shih-chi,  where  the  emperor  is 
reported  to  have  said,  after  reading  the  fu,  "What  a  misfortune  that  I  cannot  live  in  the 
same  period  with  this  man!"  Shih-chi,  chiian  117,  p.  3a-b. 

6  This  case  was  first  cited  by  Ts'ao  P'ei  in  his  Tien-lun  lun-wen.  See  Wen-hsiian, 
chiian  52.  As  Pan  Ku  and  Fu  I  were  contemporaries,  Pan's  critical  opinion  of  Fu  is 
cited   here  to  support  Liu's  statement  that  one  despises  his  contemporaries. 

7  A  younger  brother  of  Ting  I,  whose  tzu  is  Cheng-li.  The  elder  brother  is  mentioned 
in  the  last  chapter.  Both  died  at  approximately  the  same  time. 

8  These  were  all  Ts'ao  Chih's  contemporaries,  mentioned  in  his  letter  to  Yang  Hsiu. 
See  "Yii  Yang  Te-tsu  shu,"  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  42.  Liu  Hsieh  here  wrote  laconically, 
assuming  his  reader's  acquaintance  with  Ts'ao  Chih's  letter  to  Yang  Hsiu.  Ts'ao  Chih's 
praise  for  Ting  I  was  prompted  by  the  latter's  frank  opinion  of  himself;  and  he  com- 


260  An  Understanding  Critic 

In  these  instances  we  have  a  glimpse  of  Ts'ao  Chih's  opinion.  When 
Wei-wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  said,  "Literary  men  despise  each  other,"9  his 
statement  was  certainly  not  groundless. 

Chun-ch'ing  [or  Lou  Hu],  a  man  of  great  eloquence,  mistakenly 
estimated  his  own  ability  when  he  dabbled  in  literary  discussion.  He 
once  made  the  statement,  "The  historian  [Ssu-ma]  Ch'ien,  in  the 
writing  of  his  work,  sought  advice  from  Tung-fang  So."10  Huan  T'an 
and  his  group  noted  this  with  sneering  laughter.  Now  if  [Lou  Hu], 
who  was  only  a  gambler,  was  censured  for  passing  judgment  lightly, 
can  one  who  considers  himself  a  man  of  letters  afford  to  make 
groundless  remarks? 

There  are  men  of  high  intelligence  and  keen  penetration  who  value 
the  ancient  and  despise  the  modern,  like  the  two  rulers  mentioned 
above.  There  are  others,  men  of  talent,  who  have  a  tendency  to  esteem 
themselves  and  look  down  upon  others,  like  Pan  Ku  and  Ts'ao  Chih. 
There  are  still  others  who,  although  they  are  men  of  letters,  lack 
scholarship,  and  are  blind  to  truth  and  credulous  of  falsehood,  like 
Lou  Hu.  [Liu  Hsin's]  expressed  apprehension  that  [work  of  pro- 
fundity] may  be  fated  to  cover  pickle  jars  cannot  be  dismissed  as  a 
case  of  oversensitivity.11 

Now  the  unicorn  and  phoenix  are  vastly  different  from  a  chun,  or 
hornless  deer,  and  a  pheasant;  and  pearls  and  jade  are  immeasurably 
superior  to  gravel  and  stone;  and  yet  in  broad  daylight  and  clearly 
presented  before  the  eye,  [these  things  have  been  mistaken  for  each 

pared  Liu  Chi-hsii  to  T'ien  Pa,  a  sophist  in  the  Warring  States  period,  because  both 
Liu  and  T'ien  were  fond  of  criticizing  others,  although  they  themselves  lacked  talent. 

9  The  opening  sentence  in  his  Tien-lun  lun-wen. 

10  Quoted  by  Ssu-ma  Chen  of  the  T'ang  dynasty  in  his  commentary  to  the  last  chiian 
of  the  Shih-chi,  chiian  130,  p.  29b,  as  a  remark  made  by  Huan  T'an.  According  to 
Liu  Hsieh,  the  statement  was  made  by  Lou  Hu,  and  Huan  T'an  was  criticizing  him 
for  his  audacity  in  making  it. 

11  Pan  Ku,  in  his  tsan  to  the  biography  of  Yang  Hsiung,  mentions  that  after  Liu 
Hsin  had  read  Yang's  T'ai-hsuan,  a  work  patterned  after  the  Boo\  of  Changes,  and 
Fa-yen,  a.  work  patterned  after  the  Analects,  he  said  to  Yang  Hsiung,  "Your  labor  will 
all  be  in  vain.  At  present,  honor  and  wealth  await  scholars  who  understand  the  Boo\ 
of  Changes,  and  still  there  is  no  one  who  really  understands  it.  How  can  they  be  expected 
to  understand  your  T'ai-hsiian}  I  am  afraid  people  who  come  after  us  will  use  it  to 
cover  their  jars  of  pickles."  See  Han-shu,  chiian  87,  hsia,  p.  17a. 


An  Understanding  Critic  261 

other].  A  minister  of  Lu  took  the  unicorn  to  be  a  chun,12  a  man  of 
Ch'u  took  a  pheasant  to  be  a  phoenix,13  a  Wei  rustic  thought  a  jade 
[rule]  which  shone  at  night  was  a  piece  of  an  ominous  stone,14  and 
a  fool  of  Sung  treasured  a  fragment  of  gravel  from  Mount  Yen  as  if 
it  were  a  precious  pearl.15  If  these,  which  are  all  physically  tangible 
things,  and  easily  distinguishable,  have  been  so  mistakenly  perceived, 
how  much  harder  it  must  be  to  judge  accurately  when  we  come  to  deal 
with  literature,  the  nature  of  which  is  so  difficult  to  understand! 

Literary  works  are  of  all  kinds,  and  their  contents  and  forms  are 
interlocked.  Our  knowledge  tends  to  be  one-sided;  no  one  has  been 
able  to  be  perfectly  comprehensive.  Men  of  the  heroic  type16  will 
[unsophisticatedly]  beat  time  when  they  hear  a  tune;  those  who  are 
reserved  are  often  keenly  perceptive,  inclining  to  the  lofty  way  of 
retirement;  the  superficially  clever  will  look  at  ornate  patterns  with 
throbbing  hearts,  and  those  who  love  the  extraordinary  will  listen  to 
what  is  odd  with  ears  pricked  up.  They  all  recite  with  admiration 
what  suits  their  taste,  but  discard  that  which  does  not  meet  with  their 
approval.  Each  holds  fast  to  his  bias,  and  wants  it  to  be  the  measure 
of  all  changes.  There  is  no  wonder  that  he  who  looks  to  the  east  does 
not  see  the  western  wall.  But  one  can  be  considered  a  good  musician 
only  after  one  has  played  a  thousand  tunes,  and  a  collector  of  arms 
can  be  considered  a  connoisseur  only  after  he  has  seen  a  thousand 
swords;17  so  broad  experience  and  learning  are  the  sine  qua  non  of  true 
wisdom.  Only  when  experiences  of  large  mountains  and  ocean  waves 
form  the  background  for  a  man's  description  of  small  mounds  and 
ditches,  can  he  be  free  from  individual  preconceived  evaluations  and 
prejudices.  And  only  thus  freed  is  he  able,  like  a  balance,  to  judge 
impartially,  or  like  a  mirror,  to  reflect  without  distortion. 

12  Ch'un-ch'iu   ching-chuan   yin-te,   487/ A8    14/1    Kung-yang. 

13  Yin-wen-tzu,  "Ta-tao,"  shang  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  p.  6. 

14  Ibid.  15  l-wen  lei-chii,  chiian  6. 

16  Literally,  the  term  "K'ang-k'ai"  means  full  of  feelings.  Men  of  genuine  feelings 
are  usually  explosive  in  temperament.  Hence  the  same  term  means  also  "heroic." 

17  Remarks  attributed  to  Yang  Hsiung  and  Wang  Chiin-ta,  quoted  in  Huan  T'an's 
Hsin-lnn.  See  I-lin,  a  compilation  by  Ma  Tsung  of  the  T'ang  dynasty  of  quotations  from 
authors  since  the  Chou  and  Ch'in. 


262  An  Understanding  Critic 

Now  before  we  begin  to  study  a  piece  of  literature,  we  should  pay 
attention  to  six  points :  its  genre  and  style,  its  rhetoric,  its  application  of 
the  principle  of  flexible  adaptability,  its  conformity  or  nonconformity 
to  orthodox  principle,  its  factual  and  intellectual  content,  and  its 
musical  pattern.  Once  clear  about  these  points,  we  shall  be  able  to 
weigh  its  merits  and  its  faults. 

The  writer's  first  experience  is  his  inner  feeling,  which  he  then  seeks 
to  express  in  words.  But  the  reader,  on  the  other  hand,  experiences 
the  words  first,  and  then  works  himself  into  the  feeling  of  the  author. 
If  he  can  trace  the  waves  back  to  their  source,  there  will  be  nothing, 
however  dark  and  hidden,  that  will  not  be  revealed  to  him.  Although 
the  life  of  an  age  may  have  passed  beyond  our  view,  we  may  often, 
through  reading  its  literature,  succeed  in  grasping  the  heart  of  it.  We 
ought  never  to  blame  a  work  for  being  too  profound,  for  our  failure 
to  understand  it  is  often  due  to  our  own  lack  of  experience  and  knowl- 
edge. If  it  is  possible  for  a  man's  impressions  of  mountains  and  rivers 
to  find  expression  in  his  lute  playing,18  how  much  easier  it  must  be 
to  depict  physically  tangible  forms  with  a  brush,  from  which  no  inner 
feeling  or  idea  can  be  successfully  hidden.  Our  mind  reflects  reason 
just  as  our  eyes  perceive  physical  forms;  as  long  as  our  eyes  are  keen, 
there  are  no  physical  forms  which  cannot  be  distinguished,  and  as 
long  as  our  mind  is  alert,  there  are  no  feelings  or  ideas  which  cannot 
be  conveyed.  However,  because  the  popular  taste  is  confused,  profound 
writings  have  come  to  be  discarded,  and  the  superficial  types  have 
gained  popularity.  This  is  why  Chang  Chou  ridiculed  "Che-yang" 
music,19  and  Sung  Yii  was  struck  with  melancholy  at  the  [forlorn] 

18  Po  Ya,  an  ancient  musician,  was  playing  a  lute,  and  Chung  Tzu-chi,  a  friend  with 
an  appreciative  ear,  was  listening.  While  he  was  playing,  Po  Ya  thought  of  Mount  T'ai; 
Chung  Tzu-chi  said,  "Exquisite,  your  music  is  just  as  majestic  as  Mount  T'ai."  In  a  little 
while,  Po  Ya  thought  of  a  river;  Chung  Tzu-chi  again  said,  "Exquisite,  your  music  rolls 
full  like  a  flowing  river."  When  Chung  Tzu-chi  died,  Po  Ya  dashed  his  lute  to  pieces 
and  never  during  his  lifetime  did  he  play  again.  For  he  believed  that  there  was  no  one 
else  understanding  enough  to  make  his  playing  worthwhile.  See  Lu-shih  ch'un-ch'iu, 
chiian  14,  p.  140.  Chung  Tzu-chi,  also  known  as  Chung  Chi,  has  always  been  respected 
as  the  most  understanding  critic  in  China. 

19  See  Chuangtzu  yin-te,  32/12/91:  "Great  music  fails  to  win  popular  ears,  but  when 
'Che-yang'  or  'Huang-hua'  is  played,  they  all  start  to  laugh  out  loud."  Both  "Che-yang" 
and  "Huang-hua"  are  ancient  popular  musical  pieces. 


An  Understanding  Critic  263 

fate  of  "Pai-hsiieh."20  Long  ago  Chu  P'ing  [or  Ch'ii  Yiian]  said, 
"There  is  in  my  inner  nature  both  form  and  substance,  but  the  people 
do  not  know  their  wonderful  patterns."21  Indeed,  an  understanding 
critic  alone  is  capable  of  seeing  what  is  [inwardly]  wonderful.  Yang 
Hsiung  once  called  himself  a  lover  of  literary  works  which  are  both 
profoundly  erudite  and  beautiful.  From  this  statement  it  is  apparent 
that  Yang  did  not  indulge  in  the  superficial  and  shallow. 

Only  those  with  deep  knowledge  and  profound  insight  will  [give 
the  author  an]  experience  of  inner  joy,  which  experience  may  be  com- 
pared to  the  warmth  people  feel  while  ascending  a  terrace  in  the 
spring,22  or  to  the  feeling  of  a  wayfarer  halting  his  step  for  music  and 
viands.23  For  it  is  said  that  the  orchid,  which  is  the  most  fragrant  thing 
in  the  country,  will  give  forth  its  full  scent  only  when  worn;  and 
similarly,  literary  works,  which  too  are  national  treasures,  must  be 
appreciated  to  display  their  beauty.  May  those  who  consider  themselves 
understanding  critics  consider  these  words  well. 

The  Tsan : 
Grand  bells  of  ten  thousand  weights 
Need  K'uei  and  K'uang  to  determine  their  tones.24 
Books  in  the  box  may  be  of  excellent  quality, 

But  they  depend  on  expert  knowledge  for  an  appraisal  of  their  value. 
The  popular  vulgar  music  drowns  one's  soul; 
So  do  not  let  your  hearing  be  misled  by  it. 
Only  the  principles  propounded  here 
Mark  out  the  paths  which  are  free  from  mistakes. 

20  "Pai-hsiieh"  is  classical  music,  not  appreciated  by  people  at  large.  See  Sung  Yii's 
"Tui  Ch'u-wang  wen,"  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  45. 

21  Ch'u-tzu,  chiian  4,  "Huai-sha." 

22  Laotzu  pen-i  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  Chapter  17,  p.  15. 

23  Ibid.,  Chapter  30,  p.  27. 

24  Both  K'uei  and  K'uang  were  masters  of  music  in  ancient  times. 


XLIX.  The  Capacity  of  a  Vessel  (Ch'eng-ch'i) 


Scholars,  in  the  discussion  in  the  "Book  of  Chou,"1  are  compared  to 
the  work  of  the  carpenter,2  because  their  value  consists  both  in  their 
practical  ability  and  in  the  beautiful  patterns  in  which  that  ability  is 
expressed.  In  the  same  way,  only  after  a  block  has  been  carved  is 
vermilion  applied,  and  only  after  the  walls  are  up  are  carving  and 
varnish  put  on.3 

However,  modern  writers  love  the  flowers  and  discard  the  fruits. 
This  moved  Wei-wen  [or  Ts'ao  P'ei]  to  remark,  "All  writers,  present 
and  past  alike,  are  generally  careless  in  the  small  matters  of  their 
lives."4  And  Wei  Tan,  in  his  criticism,  condemned  a  number  of 
writers.5  Later  critics  reiterate  these  opinions  like  thunder  responding 
to  thunder,  tragically  monotonous  and  repetitive. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  faults  of  literary  writers:  [Ssu-ma] 
Hsiang-ju  stole  a  wife  and  received  bribes;  Yang  Hsiung  loved  to  drink 
and  was  quite  lost  as  to  how  to  plan  for  his  daily  living;  Ching-t'ung 
[or  Feng  Yen]  was  rather  undisciplined;6  Tu  Tu  was  persistent  in 
asking  favors  and  was  never  satisfied;  Pan  Ku  unashamedly  flattered 
Tou  [Hsien]  to  add  to  his  own  prestige;  Ma  Yung  allied  himself  with 
Liang  [Chi]  and  was  insatiable  in  his  thirst  for  bribes;  Wen-chii  [or 
K'ung  Yung],  haughty  and  conceited,  hastened  his  own  death;  Cheng- 
p'ing  [or  Ni  Heng],  wild  and  naive,  courted  his  own  execution;7 
Chung-hsuan  [or  Wang  Ts'an]  was  frivolous  and  hot-headed;  K'ung- 
chang  [or  Ch'en  Lin],  was  hasty  and  careless;  Ting  I  was  a  greedy 

1  The  Chou  section  of  the  Boo\  of  History. 

2  "Tzu-ts'ai,"  Chapter  31  in  the  Book,  of  History.  Actually,  it  is  the  scholar's  ability  to 
manage  the  affairs  of  the  state  which  is  compared  to  a  carpenter's  work. 

3  For  the  source  of  these  figures,  see  Chapter  31,  the  Book  °f  History.  Shang-shu 
t'ung-chien,  31/01 44-01 70. 

4  See  his  second  letter  to  Wu  Chih,  in  Wen-hsiian,  chiian  42. 

5  Included  in  the  list  criticized  by  Wei  are:  Wang  Ts'an,  Po  Ch'in,  Juan  Yii,  Ch'en 
Lin,  and  Lu  Tz'ui.  See  the  biography  of  Wang  Ts'an  in  the  "Wei-shu,"  in  the  San-f(uo- 
chih,  chiian  21,  pp.  6b-7a. 

6  See  their  biographies  in  the  Han-shu. 

7  See  their  biographies  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 


The  Capacity  of  a  Vessel  265 

man,  forever  demanding  gifts;  Lu  Ts'ui  devoted  his  life  to  the  prob- 
lems of  what  to  drink  and  what  to  eat,  with  no  sense  of  shame;  Pan 
Yueh  forged  the  prayer  for  the  heir  apparent,  Min-huai;8  Lu  Chi 
attached  himself  to  Chia  [Mi]  and  Kuo  [Chang];9  Fu  Hsiian,  stubborn 
and  narrow-minded,  even  scolded  the  prime  minister;  and  Sun  Ch'u, 
malicious  and  obstinate,  engaged  in  a  lawsuit  against  his  superior.10 
All  these  are  faults  literary  writers  have  committed. 

Of  course,  literary  writers  are  not  the  only  ones  who  have  faults; 
military  generals  are  not  free  from  them.  We  recall,  for  example,  the 
following  faults  of  generals  and  prime  ministers  of  the  past:  Kuan 
Chung's  petty  thievery,  Wu  Ch'i's  greed  and  debauchery,  Ch'en  P'ing's 
black  character,  the  sycophancy  of  Chiang[-hou  Chou  Po]  and  Kuan 
[Yin],  and  numberless  other  faults  of  people  who  came  after  them.11 
If  K'ung  Kuang,  a  prime  minister,  had  to  flatter  Tung  Hsien,12  how 
could  we  expect  Pan  [Ku],  and  Ma  [Yung],  who  held  petty  official 
positions,  or  P'an  Yueh,  who  was  a  subordinate,  to  do  otherwise? 
Wang  Jung  had  a  hand  in  the  establishment  of  the  [Chin]  dynasty 
and  occupied  the  highest  official  rank.  If  a  man  of  his  calibre  vulgarly 
sold  offices  and  haggled  for  bargains,  what  can  be  expected  of  [Ssu-]ma 
[Hsiang-ju]  and  Tu  [Tu],  who  had  to  bend  their  backs  like  musical 
stones,13  or  Ting  [I]   and  Lu   [Ts'ui],  who  were  almost  paupers? 

8  Empress  Chia  was  about  to  remove  the  heir  apparent.  On  the  pretext  that  the 
emperor  was  not  feeling  well,  she  sent  for  the  heir  and  put  him  in  a  room,  and  forced 
him  to  drink  until  he  was  drunk.  Then  she  told  P'an  Yiieh  to  write  a  prayer  in  the  name 
of  the  heir  apparent.  The  drunken  heir  was  asked  to  copy  it,  and  the  empress  presented 
it  to  the  emperor.  In  the  prayer,  the  emperor  was  told  to  dispose  of  himself,  with  the 
threat  that  if  he  did  not  do  so,  the  heir  would  do  it  with  his  own  hand.  As  a  result, 
the  heir  was  removed.  See  Chin-shu,  chiian  53,  the  biography  of  Min-huai  T'ai-tzu, 
pp.  4b-5a. 

9  Chia  Mi  was  Empress  Chia's  nephew  and  Kuo  Chang  was  her  uncle. 

10  See  their  biographies  in  the  Chin-shu. 

11  Kuan  Chung  was  accused  of  being  a  petty  thief  from  Ch'eng-yin.  Sec  Liu  Hsiang's 
Shuo-yz'ian,  chiian  8,  p.  50,  "Tsun-hsien  p'ien."  For  Wu  Ch'i's  character,  see  his  biog- 
raphy in  the  Shih-chi.  For  Ch'en  P'ing,  Chou  Po,  and  Kuan  Yin,  see  the  biography  of 
Prime  Minister  Ch'en,  in  the  Shih-chi. 

12  K'ung  Kuang  had  been  a  superior  of  Tung  Hsien's  father.  But  since  Tung  Hsien 
had  become  a  favorite  of  the  emperor,  K'ung  Kuang  had  to  forget  his  dignity  and  treat 
him  in  a  flattering  way.  See  "Ning-hsing  chuan,"  in  the  Han-shu. 

13  Symbolic  of  people  occupying  low  positions  and  having  to  show  respect  by  bowing 
to  others  all  the  time. 


266  The  Capacity  of  a  Vessel 

However,  the  fame  of  Tzu-hsia  [or  K'ung  Kuang]  as  a  great  scholar 
did  not  suffer  on  account  of  his  conduct,  nor  was  Chun-ch'ung  [or 
Wang  Yung]  excluded  from  the  "Bamboo  Grove"14  because  of  his. 
This  is  because  they  had  both  achieved  great  names,  and  the  criticisms 
levelled  against  them  were  somewhat  moderated. 

But  [on  the  other  side  of  the  ledger]  we  have  the  loyalty  of  Ch'ii 
Yuan,  the  vigilance  and  alertness  of  Tsou  [Yang]  and  Mei  [Sheng],15 
the  perfect  filial  piety  of  Huang  Hsiang,16  and  the  reticent  and  retiring 
nature  of  Hsu  Kan.  So  who  can  say  that  all  writers  have  stained 
characters  ? 

Man  is  endowed  with  five  elemental  abilities.17  Not  all  men  are 
equal  in  these  gifts,  and  they  do  not  put  them  to  the  same  uses.  Short 
of  a  sage  of  the  first  order,  there  is  rarely  anyone  who  can  be  perfect. 
However,  generals  and  great  ministers,  on  account  of  their  high  station, 
usually  enjoy  great  fame,  while  writers,  being  lowly  and  humble  in 
their  official  positions,  easily  become  the  object  of  criticism.  For  similar 
reasons,  rivers  and  streams  roll  majestically  along,  while  brooks  and 
creeks  have  to  struggle  for  every  inch  they  cover.  Now,  just  as  there 
is  a  reason  why  some  people  are  famous  and  others  unknown,  so  there 
is  a  reason  why  some  people  are  prosperous  and  others  frustrated.  The 
reason  for  giving  an  appointment  to  a  scholar  lies  in  his  usefulness  in 

14  The  names  of  the  "Seven  Worthies  of  the  Bamboo  Grove"  are  listed  in  Liu  I-ch'ing's 
Shih-shuo  hsin-yii,  chiian  5,  Chapter  23  (Chu-tzu  chi-ch'eng  ed.),  p.  188:  Juan  Chi, 
Hsi  K'ang,  Shan  T'ao,  Liu  Ling,  Juan  Hsien,  Hsiang  Hsiu,  and  Wang  Yung.  Imbued 
with  the  spirit  of  Tao,  they  were  mostly  at  odds  with  the  way  of  the  world,  and  sought 
to  live  their  lives  spontaneously  as  their  impulses  and  feelings  directed  them. 

15  Tsou  and  Mei  were  sent  to  serve  at  the  court  of  Prince  Wu.  When  they  discovered 
that  the  prince  was  entertaining  rebellious  intentions  and  would  not  listen  to  their 
remonstrances,  they  left  Wu  and  went  to  Liang.  See  Tsou  Yang's  biography  in  the 
Shih'chi. 

16  See  his  biography  in  the  Hou-han-shu. 

17  There  are  three  different  definitions  of  "wu-ts'ai"  (five  kinds  of  materials  or 
elements):  the  first — metal,  wood,  leather,  jade,  and  earth — is  given  in  Cheng  Hsiian's 
commentary  to  "K'ao-kung  chi,"  the  last  section  of  the  Chou-li.  The  second — metal, 
wood,  water,  fire,  and  earth — is  given  in  the  commentary  to  a  line  in  the  Tso-chnan: 
Tien  sheng  wu-ts'ai  ["Heaven  produces  the  five  elements"].  See  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching- 
chuan  yin-te,  318/Hsiang  27/fu  2.  The  third — bravery,  wisdom,  benevolence,  trust- 
worthiness, and  loyalty — is  given  in  the  Liu-t'ao,  where  these  were  quoted  as  qualities 
a  general  must  possess.  Liu  Hsieh,  in  using  this  term  wu-ts'ai,  seems  to  be  merely 
referring  to  the  abilities  of  a  man  in  general. 


The  Capacity  of  a  Vessel  267 

practical  affairs.  [Chi]  Ching-chiang  of  Lu  was  just  a  woman  of 
intelligence,  but  she  had  sense  enough  to  infer  from  her  weaving 
principles  applicable  to  the  management  of  a  state.18  How  then  can 
it  be  explained  when  a  man  who  has  made  achievements  in  literature 
yet  knows  nothing  about  government?  The  reason  Yang  [Hsiung] 
and  [Ssu-]ma  [Hsiang-ju],  for  example,  remained  humble  in  station 
throughout  their  lives  is  that,  although  they  exhibited  great  literary 
excellence,  they  lacked  real  content.  Yii  Yiian-kuei  [or  Yii  Liang]  of 
the  Chin  was  a  man  of  brilliant  talent;  but  because  he  had  achieved 
renown  as  a  military  general,  his  literary  fame  was  eclipsed.  If  he  had 
not  been  a  great  minister  and  general,  he  would  have  been  known  as 
a  talented  writer.  But  both  the  art  of  literature  and  the  art  of  war  fit 
in  wherever  there  is  talent.  Hsi  Hu,  just  because  he  was  versed  in  the 
Classics,  was  appointed  a  military  commander-in-chief.19  When  did 
he  neglect  military  affairs  because  he  loved  literature?  Sun  Wu[-tzu's] 
work  on  military  science  [Sun-tzu]  is  written  in  a  language  as  beautiful 
as  pearls  and  jade.  But  when  did  he,  because  he  was  skilled  in  military 
arts,  ignore  literary  excellence? 

A  man  of  virtue  keeps  his  ability  hidden,  and  waits  for  the  right 
moment  to  act.  One  who  aims  at  achievement  in  affairs  of  state  should 
on  the  one  hand  strive  for  perfection  in  cultivating  the  excellence  of 
the  inner  man  and  on  the  other  be  able  to  express  this  inner  excellence 
externally  in  beautiful  patterns.  In  other  words  he  should  have  a  nature 
like  cedar  and  a  trunk  like  camphor-laurel.  His  purpose  in  writing 
will  be  to  control  affairs  of  state;  and  when  he  is  asked  to  shoulder 
heavy  responsibilities,  he  will  be  as  dependable  as  a  pillar  or  a  beam. 
When  frustrated,  he  will  cultivate  his  inner  excellence  in  retirement 
and  immortalize  it  in  words;  when  in  office,  he  will  take  advantage  of 
the  opportunity  to  achieve  worldly  success.  Such  a  writer  will  meet 
the  requirements  set  up  for  scholars  in  the  "Tzu-ts'ai."20 

18  See  Liu  Hsiang's  Lieh-nu  chaan,  chiian  i,  p.  12. 

19  Ch'un-ch'iu  ching-chuan  yin-te,  130/Hsi  27/5  Tso. 

20  See  note  2  above. 


268  The  Capacity  of  a  Vessel 

The  Tsan: 
Observe  the  writers  of  the  past: 

Some  have  achieved  perfection  in  both  literary  quality  and  moral  virtue! 
The  fame  of  some  of  them  rings  out  in  Ch'u  in  the  South,21 
And  the  literary  excellence  of  others  shakes  Liang  in  the  North.22 
If  a  writer  has  no  capacity  for  practical  affairs  then,  despite  his  laborious 

carving, 
What  good  will  his  excellence  be  to  people? 
Literature  should  not  only  be  an  ornament  for  its  creator, 
But  should  serve  also  to  glorify  the  state. 

21  Referring  to  Ch'u  Yuan  and  Chia  I,  according  to  Fan  Wen-Ian. 

22  Referring  to  Tsou  Yang  and  Mei  Sheng,  according  to  Fan. 


GLOSSARY 


at  lamented,  or  to  lament  *jj^ 


chan  divination  YL 


chan 


to  spy  or  watch  \r& 


chieh  to  untie,  or  a  record  of  a 

settlement 

chih  ordinance 

chih  a  particle  placed  in  the  middle  of 

a  sentence  to  show  a  relationship 
between  what  precedes  and 
what  follows  it 

chih  to  arrive 


-& 


chang  a  chapter 

ch'en  to  exhibit 

chi  register 

ch'i  contract 

chieh  all  \£ 

chieh  to  borrow  )j£* 

chieh  to  tie  a  knot  £*£» 


270 

Glossary 

chi-hai  she -ho 

cross  the  river  or 
chi-hai 

l  the  date  of 

l&  >#  vf 

ch'ii 

a  ditty 

# 

chuan 

commentary,  or  1 

:o  comment 

# 

chuan 

notice,  including 

obituary 

** 

chuan 

to  transfer 

n 

chuan 

bond 

*- 

chung 

middle,  or  norm 

t 

erh 

a  mid-particle  to 
or  addition 

show  a  transition 

& 

fa  regulation 


fu  tally 


fang 

prescription 

* 

feng 

a  satirical  writing 

SWK» 

fou-chia 

superficiality  and  untruth 

->*  m. 

fu 

authenticity 

t 

fu 

a  particle  to  initiate  the  ideas 
expressed 

K 

* 


Glossary 

hsiang 

sign,  or  signal 

hsieh 

humor,  or  jest 

hsing 

nature 

hsing 

surname 

hsii 

empty 

hu 

an  end  particl 

271 


a  question  or  an  exclamation 


ending 

an   end   particle,   to   indicate   the 
completion  of  an  idea 

a  mid-particle  to  show  instru- 
mentality, reason,  etc. 


\ai  a  particle  to  introduce  a  fact  or  a 


-ts. 
t 


appropriate  ti 


& 


to  adhere  ^/ffe 


to  discuss  j*i&i 


% 


general  truth  jJL 

\ao  to  inform  %& 


ku 

a  conjunction  to  show  a  causal 
relation  between  the  sentence  it 
introduces  and  the  previous  one 

*&_ 

\uan 

pass,  or  credentials 

NB 

Ian 

to  peruse 

t 

lieh 

narrative  account 

*1 

lieh-feng  yin-yii 

strong  wind  and  continuous  rain 

J'l  iflp*'^ 

ling 

order 

*- 

ling 

topic 

4* 

lu 

record 

& 

lu 

a  road 

S4- 

lu 

stupid 

* 

lii 

law,  or  pitch  pipe 

* 

lueh 

a  precis 

«>£r 

lun 

to  discourse 

ft 

lun 

to  set  in  order 

fe 

lung 

a  short  song 

mao 

description 

Glossary 

ming 

mandate 

pei 

stone  monument 

pei 

walled  terrace 

pi 

to  close 

pieh-feng 

strange  wind  anc 

huai-yu 

p'ien 

a  literary  compos 

p'i-fu 

one  husband 

p'i-fu 

one  wife 

pn 

to  spread  out 

pit 

warrant 

273 


p  u 
p'u 
p'u 


chronicle 
comprehensive 
vegetable  garden 


san  shih  tu-ho      three  pigs  cross  the  river 


shen  chih  tiao  i     the  spirits  have  arrived 


shen-hsia  great  defect 


£ 


£'j  ft->i3? 


&■ 


K 


1 


* 


"a 

-a 


V?.  *#. 


274 
shih 

shih 
shih 
shih 

shih 
shih 

shih 

shu 
shu 
shu 

shuo 
ssu 

ssu 
ta 

t'i 

tiao 
tieh 


Glossary 


historian 


formula 


situation,  or  condition,  or  contour 


solid 


to  employ 

* 

to  resolve 

*f 

to  take  an  oath,  or  military 

* 

proclamation 

operation 

**f 

sales  slip 

*H 

to  bind  or  control 

& 

to  speak,  or  to  discuss 

$h 

one  of  the  two  earthly  branches 

t> 

similar 

S\*K 

to  convey 

body,  substance,  form,  or  genre 

to  condole 
memorandum 


J* 


Glossary  275 

tien  important  document 


tsai 


ts  at 


tsao 


tse 


tut 


tz  u 


tz  u 


an  end  particle,  to  express   an 

« 

exclamation 

to  cut  or  tailor 

* 

a  piece  of  instrumental  music 

H 

principle 

*i 

to  please 

*j 

to  pierce 

*J 

viva  voce 

*t 

wei  a  particle  to  show  a  contrast  to  the 

idea  in  the  previous  sentence 

wei  shih  tso  tse  to  be  the  standard  of  the  world 

wei  shih  tso  tse  to  be  the  thief  of  the  world 

wen  to  inquire  r  *] 

Wu-tzu  five  persons  ^  3p 

yao  a  folk  song  sung  without  instru-       -, 

mental  accompaniment  ^* 

yeh  an   end   particle,   to   indicate   the       ^ 

conclusion  of  a  sentence 


1* 


2j6 

yeh 

a  leaf 

yen 

condolence 

yen 

proverb 

yen 

to  talk 

yin 

enigma 

yin 

prelude 

yin 

a  sad  chanting 

yin 

to  hide 

yu 

a  corner 

yu 

fish 

yu 

a  mid-particle  to  express  a  relation 

ship  or  comparison 

yueh 

to  please 

yung 

a  song 

Glossary 


* 


s 


* 
* 


INDEX 


Absurdities,   in   literary   works,  97 

Accusation,  tsou,   130  ff. 

Admonition,     function     of     poetry,     xix; 

through    jest,    79 
Agreement,    couplet    of,    193;    declaration 

of,   57 
Ai,  Han  emperor,  24,  138 
Ai,  duke  of  Lu,  92;  elegy  for  Confucius, 

64 
Ai,  lament,   66  ff.,   256 
Allegory,  28,  195;  use  of,  in  remonstrance, 

xxxv 
Alliteration,   183 
Allusion,  factual,   202  ff. 
An,  emperor,  238 
An,  prince  of  Huai-nan,  26,  99,  ill,  149, 

156 
Analects    (Lun-yii),   xxi,   22,    101;   on   the 

wind,  12m 
Ancestors,  elegies  in  honor  of,  65  f.;  royal, 

worship  of,  138 
Ancestral  temples,  prayers  before,   55 
Ancient  Poems,  34  f. 
Ancient  Poets,  26,  69;  association  of  ideas, 

246;    emotion    and    literary    form,    176; 

and  fu,   46,   247;   lamentations  of,  252; 

lei,     66;     metaphors,     187;     parallelism, 

191  f.;   pi  and   hsing,   195,   198;   rhyme 

scheme,  184;  satires,  151;  use  of  hsi,  189 
Animals,  symbolism,  9,    133,   196 
An-jen,  see  P'an  Yiieh 
An-kuo,  see  Sun  Sheng 
Answers,  literary  form  of,  141 
Anthologies,  literary,  xxiv,  xxx,  33 
Apocrypha,  21  if.,  124,  237,  242/2 
Appointment,   official,   refusal   of,    128  f. 
Argument,  137  f. 

Aristophanes,   classification   of  poets,   xxxii 
Arrow,  buckthorn,  59;  inscribed,  6$ 
Art,  patrons  of,  xxv;  reflection  of  life,  xix 
"Ascension   to  the   height,"   quality  of  fu, 


"Bamboo  Grove,  Seven  Worthies  of,"  266 
Bamboo  slips,  term,  86,  no 
Battlefield,  sacrifice  to  Deity  on,   55 


Beauty,  and  spontaneity,  215;  and  truth, 
xxii 

"Beginnings,"  four,  261%,  33,  49;  seven,  40 

Being,  and  nonbeing,   103 

Bell  of  Ching,  60 

Biography,  87;  in  the  pei,  68 

Bird(s),  black,  65;  chirping  of,  23;  mark- 
ings, and  writing,  10,  208;  parable  of, 
81;  red,   169 

Black  bird,  65 

Blood,  dipping  fingers  in,  58,  205 

Bone,   in   literary  composition,   162  ff. 

Blue,  color,  167 

Boo\  of  Changes  (I  Ching),  xxi,  7/2,  gn; 
commentary,  105;  on  decisive  judg- 
ments, 15;  hexagrams,  121/2,  136,  178; 
hou,  no;  Li-sao  and,  27;  on  literary 
composition,  229;  literary  forms,  20;  on 
oracular  judgments,  12;  "Shuo-kua," 
105,  122/2;  on  ts'e,  no;  "Wen-yen," 
191,   230;   Wings,  xxxvw,    17 

Boo\  of  Filial  Piety,  22,  175 

Boo/{  of  History,  xxi,  xxxvi,  xliv;  con- 
cerning the  choice  of  language,  xxii, 
15;  classic  of  what  was  said,  84;  com- 
mentary on,  104  f.;  discussion  of  tz'u, 
4  f.;  embellishment,  199;  expedition  of 
Lord  Yin,  203;  hsiin  and  tien,  11 2/2; 
"Hung  Fan,"  135/2;  "I-chi,"  11;  Li- 
sao  and,  27;  literary  forms,  20;  on  man- 
date of  heaven,  111;  proverbs,  153;  style 
of,  170;;;  "Ta-yii  mu,"  12/2;  theory  of 
poetry,  xi;   views,    17 

Book  of  Lord  Shang,  "Six  Lice,"  98 

BooI{  of  Odes,  see  Boot{  of  Poetry 

Boof{  of  Poetry,  xxi,  xxxvi,  xliii,  xliv;  cen- 
sure, 133;  on  chang,  127;  commentaries, 
104;  disciplined  thought,  32;  embellish- 
ment in,  199;  five-word-line  poems,  34, 
37;  and  fu,  45;  "Great  and  Lesser  Pref- 
aces," xi,  xviii  f.,  233/2;  "Kuan-chii,"  195; 
line  patterns,  188;  list  of  four  beginnings, 
17;  literary  forms,  20;  "Lu-ming,"  41; 
on  ming,  115  f.;  as  model,  248;  "Pin- 
feng,"  14/2;  proverbs,  153;  six  elements, 
161,  195  ff.;  six-word  and  seven-word 
lines,  188;  style  of,  170/2;  sung,  11,  50/7; 


278 


Index 


Boo\  of  Poetry  (Continued) 

on  ts'e,  no;  versions  of,  26/7;  "Ya,"  n, 
247;   ya  and   sung,   29n 

Boo\  of  Rites  {Li-chi),  xvn,  xxi,  17,  78; 
commentary,  105;  on  comparison,  217; 
"Ju-hsing,"  14;  literary  forms,  20;  me- 
morial of  censure,  133;  "Pao-chi,"  127; 
"Wang-chih,"  13822;  on  words  of  a 
ruler,   in;   "Yueh-ling,"   97 

Book,  of  Songs,  see  Boo\  of  Poetry 

Books,  burning  of,  33,  96,  209,  235;  er- 
rors  in  copying,   213 

Bow  and   arrow,    170 

Breath,  or  spirit,  see  Ch'i 

Breath  control,  225 

Bronze,  inscribed,  66 

Buddhism,   xxiv,    103/2,   240/2 

Bull,   black,   sacrifice   of,   54;   red,   57 

Butcher,  parable  of,  xvii 

Calamities,  condolences  for,   71 

Calendar,  Chou,  84;  Hsia,  84/2 

Carriage,   inscriptions   on,    59 

Carving  of  dragons,  meaning  of,  xxxviii 

Casting,   and    cutting,    179  ff. 

Ceremonial   rites,  and  sung,   50 

Censure,  function  of  poetry,  33;  see  also 
Praise 

Chan,  divination,  148;  and  chan,  to  spy  or 
watch,    149 

Chang,  Han  emperor,  113,  239 

Ch'ang,  see  Wen,  king  of  Chou 

Chang,    master,     172,    205 

Chang,  chapter,  77,  129;  to  make  clear, 
127,   186;  memorial  of  thanks,  20,   171 

Chang  Ch'ang,  60,  147,  209 

Chang  Chien,  67 

Ch'ang-ch'ing,  see  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju 

Chang  Chou,  262 

Chang   Ch'un,    124 

Chang   Chiin,    129,    180 

Change,  adaptability  to,  see  Flexible  adapt- 
ability 

Chang  family,  241,   243 

Chang  Han,  see  Chi-ying 

Chang  Heng  (P'ing-tzu),  24,  37,  200,  238, 
254;  "Ch'i-pien,"  75;  "Chi-shih,"  103; 
criticism  of  historical  writers,  92;  "Erh- 
ching,"  47/2;  fu,  xxx,  156;  on  historical 
works,  131;  "Hsi-ching  fu,"  168,  2i9f.; 
memorial    re    apocryphal    writings,    25; 


"Nan-tu  fu,"  197;  parallelism,  191;  style, 
160;  use  of  chi  for  women,  88;  use  of 
quotation,  204;  tiao  to,  72;  "Ying-wen," 
74;  "Yuan-pien,"  35;  "Yii-lieh  fu,"  200 

Chang   Hsieh,   see   Ching-yang 

Chang  Hsiieh-ch'eng,  on  Liu  Hsieh,  xlv 

Chang  Hua  (Mao-hsien),  royal  secretary, 
37,  113,  241;  chang  and  piao,  128  f.; 
"Chiao-liao  fu,"  256;  compositions,  42; 
parallelism,  193;  on  rhyme,  184;  sub- 
ject of  jest,  80 

Chang  I,  9622,  106;  hsi,  118;  intrigue,  10522 

Chang  K'ang,  3622 

Chang   Lao,    55 

Chang   Liang,    Han    general,    158 

Chang  Min,   138 

Chang-piao,  oral  reports,   126 

Chang   Sheng,   69 

Chang   Shih-chih,    107 

Chang  T'ang  of  the  Han,   148,  228 

Chang   Tsai    (Meng-yang),    1222,   3622,    61, 

193 
Chang    Ying,    89 

Ch'ang-yii   (Fu  Hsien),  133,  139,  256 
Chao,  Han   emperor,   41,   65,  236 
Chao,  king  of  Ch'in,  57,  60,   107 
Chao,  decree,  20,   109 
Chao  Chien-tzu,  3922 
Chao  Chih,   146 
Chao-hun,  30 
Chao  I,  254 
Chao-\ao,  term,    in 
Ch'ao  Kung-wu,  xlvi 
Chao-shu,  pronouncement,  no 
Chao  Shuai,  250  f. 
Ch'ao  Ts'o,  memorial,  131;  report  on  pien- 

2,  135;  tui-ts'e,  141 
Chao  Wu-tzu,   55 
Character,  five  elemental  abilities,  266;  and 

literary  excellence,   21 
Chastity,  parables  re,  195 
Ch'en,  prince,  4422,  67 
Chen,   admonition,   20,   61,    171;   epigram, 

xxix 
Ch'en,  to  exhibit,  152 
Ch'en  Fan,   131 
Cheng,   earl  of,    13,   14522 
Ch'eng,    Han    emperor,    41,    237;    answer 

from  Tu  Ch'in,  14222;  anthology  ordered 

by,   34;   salvages   books,  96;   fu,   47;   re 

Pan  Po,  135 
Cheng,  emperor  of  the  Ch'in,  51 


Index 


279 


Ch'eng,   king,    122 

Cheng,   state,   43,   71,   251 

Cheng,  licentious  music,  8522 

Ch'eng-ch'i,  264  ff. 

Cheng  Ch'iao  of  Sung,  xviiiw 

Ch'eng-ch'iu,   battle,   64 

Ch'eng  Hsiao,   138  £. 

Cheng  Hsiian,  4,  105,  148 

Cheng  Hung,   115 

Ch'eng-kung  Tzu-an  (Ch'eng-kung  Sui), 
241,  256 

Ch'eng  Miao,   209 

Cheng-p'ing,  see  Ni   Heng 

Cheng-shih,   102;  period,  xxxvi,  240 

Ch'eng-t'ang,  of  the   Shang,   59,   234 

Cheng-tien,   203 

Chen  I,   132 

Ch'en   Lin,   see   K'ung-chang 

Ch'en  P'ing,   265 

Ch'en  Shih-hsiang,  xxvii 

Ch'en  Shou,  Records  of  the  Three  King- 
doms,  90 

Ch'en-ssu  (Ts'ao  Chih;  Tzu-chien),  xxv, 
35>  37  f-;  "Ch'i-ch'i,"  75;  ease  in  writ- 
ing, 156;  elegies,  65;  flaw  in  writing 
of,  216  f.;  Hsii-shu,  5;  "Huangtzu,"  52; 
on  individual  talent,  172;  "K'e-wen," 
74;  re  K'ung-chang,  259;  re  Li  Yen- 
nien,  43;  metaphors,  197;  piao,  128; 
"Pien-tao,"  104;  prayer,  56;  riddles,  82; 
songs,  44;  style,  184,  239;  use  of  allu- 
sion, 206  f.;  "Wei-te,"  125;  re  Yang 
Hsiung  and  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju,  210; 
works,  254 

Ch'en  Sui,  governor,  112 

Ch'en  T'ai-ch'iu,   67 

Ch'en  Tsun,   146 

Chess  game,  carved  on  Mount  Hua,  60 

Chi,  duke  of  Chou,  84 

Chi,  prince,  of  the  Shang,  203 

Chi,  annals,  87,  139/2;  chronicle  of  rulers, 
20,  53,  124;  and  chuan,  91 

Chi,  to  be  in  the  midst  of,  218 

Chi,  to  express  ideas,  147;  memoir,  165 

Chi,   register,    148 

Ch'i,  state,  71,  235 

Ch'i,  breath  or  spirit,  xiv,  xxvi;  as  literary 
style,  xxvi,   74;   vitality  or  force,   172 

Ch'i,  contract,  148 

Ch'i,   dual   meaning  as  piao  or  tsou,    134 

Ch'i,  instrument,  198;  particular  things, 
199 


Ch'i,  strange  or  extraordinary,   218 

Ch'i,  themes,  75 

Chia,  highest  category,   141 

Chia    Chuan-chih,    138 

Chia  Ch'ung,  posthumous  title,  139 

Chia  I,  Han  poet,  30,  47,  72,  236;  dis- 
course, 138;  fu,  252;  "Fu-niao,"  48,  197, 
203  f.;  memorial,  131;  rhyme  scheme, 
188;  style,  160;  tiao  to  spirit  of  Ch'ii 
Yuan,   71 

Chia  K'uei,  76,  238,  253 

Chia   Mi,    265 

Chiang  Chi  and  Emperor  Wen,  113/2 

Chiang-hou   Chou  Po,   265 

Chiang-piao,  89 

Chiang-tso  period,  36 

Chiao,  Hsia  ruler,  27  f. 

Ch'iao,  general,   61 

Chiao,  to  teach,  and  hsiao,   115 

Chiao-fu,   114 

Chiao-jih,  bright  sun,  246 

Chiao-liao,  birds,  256/2 

Chiao-ming,  mythological  bird,  200 

Chiao-pien,  term,   137 

Chiao-shih,  officials,   139/2 

Chi-cha,  prince  of  Wu,  xix,  40,  43 

Chi-chi,  hexagram,  202 

Chi  Ching-chiang  of  Lu,   267 

Ch'i  dynasty,  xxxiii,  41,  243 

Chieh,  last  of  the  Hsia  dynasty,  28 

Chieh,  to  advise  against,  114L;  warning, 
62 

Chieh,  all,  and  hsieh,  79 

Chieh,  to  borrow,    148 

Chieh,  hexagram,   136 

Chieh,  monument,  67 

Chieh,  record  of  settlement,  148;  to  untie, 

151 
Chieh,   to   tie   or   knot,    150 

Chieh-chieh,  chirping,   246 

Chieh-chih,  limitation  and  regulation,   137 

Chieh-ch'ih,  warning,  no,  114 

"Ch'ien,"  10 

Chien,  and  fu,  45/2 

Chien,  hexagram,  135/2 

Chien,  one-winged  bird,  123 

Ch'ien,  to  express  feelings,  147;  letters,  and 

chi,  147;  hexagram,  191;  note,  and  tieh, 

152 
Chien-an  period,  five-word-line  poetry,  35: 

lament  writers,   69;   Seven  Masters,   255 
Chien-ke,  city,   61 


280 


Index 


Chien-wen,  emperor,   242 

Chi-fu   (Ying  Chen),  5,  241,  250,  255 

Chih,   Han   musician,   41 

Chih,  to  arrive,  70,  218;  and  tiao,  70 

Chih,  to  grasp,  218 

Chih,  to  institute,  no;  ordinance,  148,  150 

Chih,  musical  note,   182 

Chih,  particle,   189 

Chih,  pheasant,   14322 

"Chih  gate  and  the  two  gates,  The,"  19 

Ch'ih-hen,  203 

Chih-tao,  visit  of  condolence,  70 

"Ch'ih-yen,"  tunes,  41 

Chih-yin,   term,   25 8 n 

Chih  Yii  (Chung-ch'ia),  5,  64  £.,  241;  criti- 
cal writing,  51  f.;  on  the  function  of 
literature,  xxx;  shu,  53;  style,  256 

Ch'i-kuo,  see  Warring  States  period 

Ch'i-liieh,   96,    127 

Chin,  prince  of,  140  f. 

Chin,  duke  of,  6222 

Chin,  state,  43,  71,  250 

Chin,  vegetable,  185 

Chin  dynasty,  xi,  240,  258;  difficult  times, 
132;  first  three  rulers,  139;  *  writers, 
139;  literary  works,  xxvii,  36,  167;  me- 
morials, 128  f.;  and  music,  42;  records, 
90;  talents,  192;  words  in  use,  218; — ■ 
Eastern,  xxxvi,  3622,  113;  literature,  242; 
metaphysical   discussions,   103 

Ch'in,  marquis  of,  140  f. 

Ch'in,  state,  burning  of  books,  33,  209; 
destroyed  by  the  Han,  106;  "Liu-shih," 
235;  and  the  warring  states,  86;  "Wu- 
tu,"   235 

Ch'in  dynasty,  8622;  destruction  of  ancient 
literature,  96;  fu,  46  £.;  musical  clas- 
sics, 40;  origin  of  tsou,  130;  use  of  chao 
and   ming,   in 

Chinese  language,  characters,  208,  210; 
multiple  meanings,  of  terms,  xlvi,  108, 
no;  signific  element,  7922;  tonal  pat- 
tern,  xxxi;   tone   and   meaning,   22022 

Ching,  Chin  emperor,  228,  240 

Ching,  Han  emperor,   in,   134;  sung,  51 

Ching,  prince,  see  Pei-hai 

Ching,  mount,    122 

Ching,   Classic   principles,   7,   86,    101 

Ching  Ch'a,  200 

Ching-ch'i,  closing  phrase,   134 

Ching-ch'un  (Kuo  P'u),  48,  241;  "Chiao- 
fu,"  257;  "K'e-ao,"  74;  use  of  tsan,  53 


Ch'ing  dynasty,  xlv 

Ch'ing-hsiang,  king  of  Ch'u,  8122 

Ching  K'o,  53 

Ching-li,  see  Ting  I 

"Ch'ing-miao,"  sung  and,  51 

Ch'ing-shih,   96 

Ching-t'ung  (Feng  Yen),  faults,  264;  fu, 
253;  inscriptions,  61;  shuo,  107 

Ching-yang   (Chang  Hsieh),  36/2,  37,  257 

Ch'in   Hsiu,    139 

Ch'in  Kung,  see  Ch'in  Yen-chun 

Ch'in  Shih-huang,   60,   123 

Ch'in  Yen-chun    (Ch'in  Kung),   104 

Ch'i-po,  44 

Chi-shu,  ordinance,    no 

Ch'i-tz'u,  poetry  in  the  form  of  "seven," 
171 

Chiu-chang,  30,  149 

Chiu-ch'iu,   17 

Chiu-fang  Yen,  153 

Chiu-huai,  30 

Chiu-ko,  30 

Ch'iu-ming,  see  Tso  Ch'iu-ming 

"Chiung,"  sung  and,  51 

Chiu-pien,   30 

"Chiu-shao,"  and  sung,  50 

Chi-Ying  (Chang-Han),  198,  256 

Chi  Yiin  of  the  Ch'ing  dynasty,  4472 

Chou,  emperor,  28;  and  willow  tree,  23 n 

Chou,  king,  see  Mu 

Chou,  see  Chuangtzu 

Chou,  duke  of,  see  Tan 

Chou,  historian,  209 

Chou,  state,  84 

Ch'ou,  to  pledge  with  wine,  218 

Chou  dynasty,  n,  250;  compared  with  the 
Han,  xxiii;  elegies  to  King  Wen,  65; 
five-word  line,  188;  inscription  on  buck- 
thorn arrow,  59;  literary  developments, 
126;  ming  and  lei,  64;  "Pai-kuan  chen," 
61;  poetry,  166;  resistance  of  Shang 
brothers  to,  72/2;  and  the  ruler's  words, 
in;  use  of  antiphony,  191 

Chou  Hsieh,  67 

Chou-li  (Book  of  Chou  institutions),  116, 
208  f.;  on  royal  proclamation,  no;  term 
p'i  ma,  220;  tz'u,  151 

Chou  Tun-i,   31/2 

Chronology,   in   historical   writing,  90 

Chu,  note  or  commentary,   101,    171 

Chu,  pearl,  76 

Chu,  prayer,  20,  54ff.,  124 


Index 


281 


Ch'u,  ruler,  62 

Ch'u,  state,  235;  destroyed  by  the  Han, 
106;  laws  compiled,  250;  poetry  of, 
3072,  33,  17772;  rhyme  scheme  of  songs, 
184;  songs  preserved,  41;  story  of  shield 
and  spear,   171 

Chii,  to  define  a  position,  186 

Ch'u,  ditty,  77 

Chuan,  biography,  20,  53;  and  chi,  91 

Chuan,  commentary,    101 

Chuan,  dual  meaning,  85L 

Chuan,  notice  and  obituary,   148,  152 

Chuan,  seal  style,  209 

Chuan,  bond,  148,  150 

Chuang,  king  of  Ch'u,  82;  plan  for  horse's 
funeral,  7972;  riddle,  81 

Chuang,  duke  of  Cheng,   46 

Chuang  Chi  (Chih),  allegory,  81 

Chuang  Chou  (Chuangtzu),  on  eloquence, 
175;   lun,    102;    and   the   Tao,   96 

Chuangtzu,  concept  of  nonbeing,  xxviiif.; 
on  freshness  and  spontaneity,  xliii;  and 
fu,  242;  intuitive  insight,  109;  mysti- 
cism, xvif.;  Tao  philosophy  of,  36/2 

Chuangtzu,  embellishment  in,  176 

Chiian-tzu,  Ch'ing-hsin  (The  mind  of  the 
lute)   3 

Chu   Chih-wu,   see  Chu  Wu 

Chu    Chung,    76 

Ch'u  dynasty,  poets,  xvii  f .,  47;  poetry,  166 

Chu-fu,   i,    138 

Chu-fu    Yen,    236 

Chu-ke  Liang,  see  K'ung-ming 

Chu  Mai-ch'en,  41 

Chu  Mu,  61 

Chun,  deer,  143,  260 

Chiin-ch'ing   (Lou  Hu),   107,  260 

Ch'un-ch'iu,  Annals  of,  55,  142;  classic  of 
what  was  done,  84;  commentaries  on, 
90;   Confucius  and,   85;   discussion,    137 

Ch'un-ch'iu  period,  34;  chen,  61  f.;  diplo- 
matic language,  250;  increase  in  letters 
and  emissaries,  145;  military  expeditions, 
117 

Chung,  middle  or  norm,  149 

Chung  Ch'ang-t'ung,  see  Kung-li 

Chung-ch'en,   132 

Chung-ch'ia,  see  Chih   Yii 

Chung  Chun,  236 

Ch'ung-erh,  of  Chin,  251 

Chung  Hsi,  of  Yueh,  193 

Chung-hsiian    (Wang  Ts'an),   35,   38,   48, 


102,  239;  "Ch'i-hsi,"  75;  "Ch'u-fa,"  102; 
faults,  264;  quoted,  1972;  speed  in  writ- 
ing, 156  f.;  style,  160;  "Teng-lou  fu," 
193;  tiao,  72;  works,  255 

Chung  Hui,  hsi,  119;  "Kao,"  250;  revision 
of   Yii    Sung's   memorial,    228 

Chung  Hung  of  the  Liang,  xi,  xxxra;  rules 
for  tonal  pattern,  xxxi;  Shih-p'ing,  xxxii 

Chung  I,  of  Ch'u,   193 

Chung-jen,  see  Wang  Ch'ung 

Ch'ung-kuo,  51 

Chung-lu,   24 

Chung-ni,   see   Confucius 

Chung-shan  Fu,  tripod,  60 

Chung-yuan,  see  Ying  Shao 

Chung-tsung,  244 

Chung-yii   (Hsiin  Yueh),  24,  25 

Chiin-shan,  see  Huan  T'an 

Ch'un-yii   K'un,   79 

Ch'u  P'ing  (Ch'u  Yuan),  inner  nature, 
263;  poetry,  235;  spirit  of  feng  and 
sao,  249;  references  to  Ancient  Poets, 
203 

Chu  P'u,  104 

Ch'u-shueh  chi,  collection,  13972 

Ch'u-tzu  (Sao),  poetry  of  the  state  of 
Ch'u,  2572,  4572,  166,  251;  "Chao-hun," 
55;  and  the  Classics,  29;  compared  to 
the  Li-sao,  28;  description  in,  247;  style 
of,  237 

Chu  Wu  (Chu  Chih-wu),  105 

Chu-yai   (Hainan   island),   138 

Ch'ii  Yuan  (Ling-chun),  252;  character, 
266;  Ch'u-tz'u,  251;  critical  opinion  of, 
27;  influence,  237;  Li-sao,  2572;  rhyme 
scheme,  185;  and  the  Sao  style,  46;  tiao 
to  spirit  of,  71;  works,  30 

City  walls,  ironic  comment  on  painting  of, 
79;    and   parable   of  fish,    8172 

Classic  of  Kuei-tsang,  98 

Classic  of  Music,  apocrypha,  122 

Classics,  burned,  96/2;  characteristics, 
xxxv  f.,  20,  159;  commentaries  on,  4, 
104;  compared  to  apocrypha,  22;  cri- 
teria of  literary  excellence,  xxxiii;  de- 
cline, 235;  discussions  by  scholars,  102: 
edited  and  collated,  237;  errors  in,  213: 
Li-sao  and,  27;  plagiarism  of,  219:  prin- 
ciples, 137;  rise  in  study  of,  236;  Six, 
xiii,  11;  as  source  and  model,  xxi,  17  ff., 
164,    170,   205;   works   developed   from, 


282 


Index 


Classics   (Continued) 

97;    works    of   the    sages   and    worthies, 
95;  as  yen,  230 

Classification,    literary,    xxxn 

Coin,  use  of,   139 

Color,  patterns,  8,  175;  use  of,  in  descrip- 
tion,  247  f. 

Commemoration,  sung,  51 

Commentaries,  lun  in,  104;  as  pi,  230;  writ- 
ing of,   219  f. 

Comparison,  proper  use  of,  217 

Condolence,  occasions  for,  70;  yen,  152 

Confucius  (Chung-ni),  apocrypha  attrib- 
uted to,  22  f.;  biography  of,  i8«;  on 
the  BooI{  of  Poetry,  xii;  canonized,  xvii; 
and  Ch'un-ch'iu,  85;  and  the  Classics, 
11,  17,  95/2,  101;  elegy  for,  64;  and 
Laotzu,  95;  literary  form,  13  ff.;  liter- 
ary works,  16;  in  Liu  Hsieh's  dream,  4; 
on  moral  value  of  poetry,  xii;  and  the 
people  of  Lu,  50;  on  periods  of  Duke 
Ting  and  Duke  Ai,  92;  and  the  raccoon 
song,  78;?;  reaction  to  decline  of  Chou, 
85;  "San-fu,"  14;  school  of  writing,  100; 
source  of  literary  inspiration,  xxi;  Spring 
and  Autumn,  14;  and  the  Tso-chuan, 
2772;  re  sunflower,  206  f.;  and  the  uni- 
corn, 14372;  warning  of  a  tilted  vessel, 
59;  and  the  "Wings"  of  the  Boo\  of 
Changes,  xxxv,  10 

Congratulations,   and   condolences,   71 

Consonance,  kinds  of,   183 

Copying,  errors  in,  213 

Couplets,  xlii,  37,  191 

Court,  imperial,  piao  to,  129;  recital  of 
chen,   63 

Court  of  State  Ceremony,  52 

Crab,  78 

Creative  process,  xv,  xxxiii,  155  £.,  158  f., 
162,  178,  180,  204;  main  patterns  in, 
175  f.;  nature  of,  xxiv;  oneness  with  ap- 
preciative critic,  xxxviii,  258  ff.;  and  shen, 
xvii;  and  vitality,  223;   Wen-ju  re,  xxvii 

Crime,    involvement    of    innocent    women, 

139 

Critic,  understanding,  258  ff. 

Criticism,  literary,  xl,  264;  basic  principle, 
xxv ;  re  contemporaries,  257;  develop- 
ment of,  in  ancient  China,  xi  ff.;  prob- 
lem of  semantics,  109;  reduced  to  dog- 
ma, xxii;  term,  xxxvii;  utilitarian  at- 
titude,  xii 


Crow,  red,  24 

Dances,   41;   and  sung,   5072 

Dead,  elegy  for,  64;  untimelv,  lament  for, 

69 
Deities,  sacrifice   to,   54 

Derision,  songs  of,  78 

Description,  exaggeration  as  embellishment, 
198  ff.;  repetition  of  radical  in,  212;  and 
sound  patterns,   246 

Dialogue,  host  and  guest,  125 

Discussion,    136  ff. 

Diagrams,  23 

Diplomacy,  language  of,  250  f. 

Discipline,  literary,  xxxi;  of  poetry,  31 

Divination,  772,   12,  9872 

Dragon(s),  27,  28,  235;  carving,  see  Em- 
bellishment; tail  of,  81;  yellow,  gift  of, 

57 
Dreams,  of  Liu   Hsieh,   3 
Dynasties,    nine,    writers    of,    249  ff.;    ten, 

244  f. 

Earth,  god  of,  sacrifice  to,  55;  pattern  of,  9 

Edicts,  elegiac,  56;  royal,   no,   114 

Elegance,  tien  and  ya,  159 

Elements,  literary,  in  Boo\  of  Poetry,  2672; 
six,  33 

Embellishment,  literary,  xxxi,  xxxviii,  xii, 
3,  16,  159  f.,  163,  174  ff.;  as  description, 
198  ff.;  development  of,  222;  excessive, 
141,  164,  177  f.,  201;  and  factual  writ- 
ing, 142 

Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo,  17772 

Emotion (s),  and  choice  of  literary  form, 
180;  five,  175;  function  of  music  and, 
xv ;  literary  expression  of,  xxxix,  xlii,  6, 
32,  129,  174  ff.;  and  style,  164,  169  f. 

Enfeoffment,  script  of,   109,    112 

Enlightenment,   mystical,  xvii 

Envoys,  bearers  of  shu,  145 

Erh,  particle,  189 

Erh-shih,    emperor   of    the    Ch'in    dynasty, 

7i>  79 
Erh-ya,  dictionary,   18,  210 
Essential,  the,  emphasis  on,  15;  expression 

of,   174  f. 
Eunuchs,  220 
Evaluations,  literary,  7;  criteria  of,  xxxix; 

see  also  Criticism,  literary 
Exaggeration,  in  description,  199,  206 


Index 


283 


Examinations,    competitive,    132,    141;    for 

official  appointment,  127;  state,  241 
Execution,  power  of,  138 

Fa,  regulation,  148,  150 

Falcon,  venom-bearing,  29 

Fame,  achievement  of,  xxxviii,  3 

Fan  Chii,  197,  251 

Fan  family,  243 

Fang,  prescription,  148,   149 

Fan  Sui,  shuo,  107 

Fan  Wen-Ian,  110/2 

Fan  Yeh  of  Liu  Sung,  xviii/2 

Fei  Lien,  60 

Fei-lien,  mythological  bird,  200 

Feng,  sage,  12 

Feng,  lyrical  style,  xli,  26,  50,  195,  249; 
and  ya,  spirit  of,  29;  literary  form,  176  f.; 
phoenix,  14372;  satire,  77;  wind,  162 

Feng-hou,  95 

Feng-lung,  god,   29 

"Feng-shan,"  rites  of  sacrifice,   123  ff. 

Feng  Yen,  see  Ching-t'ung 

Field,  deity  of,   54 

Figures  of  speech,  196,  199  ff.;  see  also 
Allegory;  Metaphor 

Fish,  one-eyed,  200;  parable  of,  81;  white, 
24 

Fish  eyes,  stringing  of,  76 

Fishhawks,  parable,   195;  six,   19 

Five  Emperors  period,  117,  222 

Flexible  adaptability  to  change,  xx,  xxiii  f., 
xxx,  xxxiii,  xxxvi,  15,  165  ff.,  179,  248; 
vs.  traditionalism,  xliii 

Flowers,  as  poetic  element,  37 

Flute,   184,  197 

Folk  songs,  166/2;  five-word  form,  69;  of- 
ficially collected,  40;  two-word  line,  188 

Forms,  literary,  xxvi,  xxix;  adaptation  of 
style  to,  165  ff.,  171;  choice  of, 
179  ff.;  classification,  109;  communica- 
tion through,  31;  Confucius  and,  13; 
confusion  in  use  of  terms  for,  108;  de- 
velopment of,  11;  and  emotional  situa- 
tion, 157;  functions,  xxxv;  historical 
changes  in,  xxxix;  and  individual  talent, 
170;  origin  in  the  Classics,  20;  two  arche- 
typal, 9 

Fou,  musical  instrument,  205 

"Frank  speaking,"  135 

Fruits,  as  poetic  element,  37 

Frustration,  expression  of,  75 


Fu,  prince,  see  P'ei 

Fu,    authenticity,    150 

Fu,  particle,   189 

Fu,  poetic  prose,  xviii,  xxvi,  xxix,  20,  165, 

171,    176,    188,    195,    196;    analysis   of, 

45  ff.;  of  the  Han,   166;  humorous,  79; 

origin  of,  xxxvi  f.;  and  pi,  197;  themes, 

47;    and    tiao,    71;    tonal    pattern,    xxxi; 

use  of  loan  characters,   210;   writers   of, 

xx  f.,   242,   251  f. 
Fu,  tally,   148,   150,   171 
Fit,  to  touch,   218 
Fu-fei,   29 
Fu-hsi,  see  Pao-hsi 
Fu  Hsien,  see  Ch'ang-yii 
Fu  Hsiian,  42,  92,  241;  faults,  265;  stvle, 

256 
Fu-hui,  meaning,  225 
Fu  I,  poet,   35,   238,   253;   "Ch'i-chi,"   75; 

elegies,   65  f.,   213;   "Hsien-tsung"  sung, 

52;   Pan   Ku   re,   259;   "Hsi-cheng,"    51; 

style,  253 
Fu-Keng-sheng,  xlv 
Fu-san,  the  mythical  tree,   168 
Fu-ssu   (Wang  Pi),  102,  105 
Fu  Tseng-hsiang,  xlv 
Fu   Yueh,    134/2 

Geese,  norm  set  by,  125 

Generals,   faults,   265 

Genius,  xxxviii,  xlii,  258  ff.;  see  also  Crea- 
tive  process 

Gold,  yellow,  24 

Government,  argument  re  changes  in, 
137/2;  Fu  and,  47;  memorials,  127;  and 
music,  xix,  40;  office  for  collecting  poems 
and  songs,  33/2;  and  shuo,  105;  six 
functions,  4;  state  of,  reflected  in  litera- 
ture,  xix,  xxxvi,   131,  234,   240,   242  f. 

Gratitude,  expression  of,   126;  piao,   147 

Great  Change,  number  of,  6  f. 

Great  Operation,  number  of,  7/2 

Great  Trinity,   17,  21 

Great  Void,  see  Nonbeing 

Greece,  classical   era,  xi 

"Green  Diagram,"  apocrypha,  2],,  122 

Hainan  island,  138/2 
Hall  of  Rites,   113 
Han  An-kuo,  argument,   138 
Han  dynasty,  categories  of  memorials,  127; 
compared   with  the  Chou,  win;  concept 


284 


Index 


Han  dynasty  (Continued) 

of  literature,  xiv;  Court  of  State  Cere- 
mony, 52;  elegies,  44,  64  f.;  fu,  47;  fu 
and  sung,  166;  /  writers,  139  f.;  litera- 
ture, 235  f.,  252;  memorials,  127;  oath, 
57;  office  of  historian,  91,  111;  poetry 
of,  177/2,  196;  po-i,  term,  137;  record 
of  military  achievements,  86;  rules  of 
character  writing,  209;  sacrifices,  55; 
scholars,  ion,  135,  235;  tally,  150;  three 
tunes,  42; — ,  Former,  xvii  f .,  37;  philo- 
logical achievements,  208;  six-word  and 
seven-word  lines,  188; — ,  Later,  xi,  xviii, 
257  f. 

Han  Fei,  99;  "Ch'u-shuo,"  259;  on  em- 
bellishment, 175;  query  re  Kung-Sun 
T'an-hui,  151;  "Shuo-nan,"  256 

Han-fei-tzu,  "Five  Worms,"  98 

Han-fei-tzu,  embellishment  in,   176 

Han-shu,  90,  23072 

Han-tan,  city,  gait,  76 

Han-tan  Ch'un,  see  Tzu-shu 

Han-tsu,  (Kao-tsu),  first  Han  emperor,  41, 
44,  115,  193,  244;  "Ta-feng"  and 
"Hung-ku,"    235  f. 

Han  Yii,  32/2 

Hao,  10 

Harmony,  in  music  and  in  literature,  184; 
rules  of,  39 

Heaven (s),  central,  39;  nine,  invocation 
of,  58;  pattern  of,  8;  sacrifice  to,  54 

Hen,  proverb  re,  152 

Hexagrams,  ion,  15,  13572;  chieh,  136; 
ch'ien,  191;  hou,  no;  kuai,  144;  h^un, 
191;  pi,  178;  King  Wen  re,  202;  re- 
alignment of  lines,  215 

Historian,  fidelity  to  fact,  93;  office  of,  84  f., 
91,  in;  treatment  of  contemporaries, 
92 

History,  literary  form,  xxii,  xxxix,  83  ff.; 
principles  for  writing  of,  90;  progressive 
theory  of,  see  Flexible  adaptability  to 
change;  recording  of,  208;  tien  and  hsiin, 
257;  yin  in  records  of,  82 

History  of  Liang,  xxxiv 

Ho,   emperor,   238 

Ho,  harmony,  184 

Ho  family,  243 

Ho-kuan-tzu,   99,    204 

Homophone,  pet,  66n 

Homophonous  reading,  219 

Horace,  xxxviii 


Horse,  and  carriage,  220;  heavenly,  41; 
funeral  for,  79;  white,  57 

Horse-dragon,   22 

Ho-t'an-chia,  40 

Ho  Tseng,  139 

Ho-t'u,  see  Yellow  River  Map 

Hou,  hexagram,  no 

Hou-chi,  ancestor  of  the  Chou,  65 

Hou-han-shu,   annals   and   biographies,    89 

Hou-i,  62 

Hou  P'a,  official,  112 

Ho  Yen  (P'ing-shu),  36,  102,  240,  255 

"Ho-yiieh,"  musical  accompaniment,  4272 

Hsi,  empress,  51 

Hsi,  duke  of  Lu,  137 

Hsi,  to  confer,  218 

Hsi,  metrical  particle,   189 

Hsi,  proclamation,  20,  117,  118,  171 

Hsia,  story  of  bow  and  arrow,  170 

Hsia  Chi,  absurdities,  97 

Hsia  dynasty,  2872,  250;  bronze  tripod,  59; 
four- word  line,  188;  \ao,  84;  nine  ac- 
complishments,  11;   "Tiao-ch'iang,"   166 

Hsia-hou  Hsiao-ju  (Hsia-hou  Chan),  241, 
256 

Hsia-hou  Hsiian,  see  T'ai-ch'u 

Hsi  An,  41 

Hsiang,  king  of  Ch'u,  79,  196 

Hsiang,  sign  or  signal,   150 

"Hsiang-ho  ko,"  musical  accompaniment, 
4272 

Hsiang  Hsiu  of  the  Chin,  217 

Hsiang-ju,  see  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju 

Hsiang  Yii,  king  of  Ch'u,  8672 

Hsiao,  prince  of  Liang,  252 

Hsiao,  to  imitate,   115 

Hsiao-hui,  emperor  of  the  Han,  88  f. 

Hsiao  Kang,  of  Liang  dynasty,  xxv 

Hsiao-shan,  see  Su  Shun 

Hsiao  T'ung,  of  Liang  dynasty,  xxx;  Wen- 
hsiian,  xxv,  xxx/2 

Hsiao-wu,  emperor,  242 

Hsiao-ya,  26 

"Hsia-yu,"  song,  34 

Hsi  Chien,  67 

Hsieh,  five  teachings,  115 

Hsieh,  humor,  79 

Hsieh  Ai,  180 

Hsieh   Ch'eng,    89 

"Hsieh-ching,"  folk  song,  34 

Hsieh  family,  243 

Hsieh  Shu-yuan   (Hsieh  Hun),  257 


Index 


285 


Hsieh  Tsung,  220 

Hsien,  Han  emperor,  113/2,  239 

Hsien,  prince  of  Ho-chien,  41 

"Hsien,"  music,  39 

Hsien-liang,   term,    141 

Hsien  Mo,  sung,  50 

Hsien-tsung,  see  Ming,  emperor 

Hsi  Hu,  267 

Hsi  K'ang  (Shu-ya),  36,  37,  102,  146,  161, 

217,  240,  255 
Hsin  Chia,  historian,  chen,  62;  "Yii-chen," 

61 
Hsin  dynasty,  fall  of,  119 
Hsing,  allegory,  26/2,  195,  196;  and  ming, 

lion 
"Hsing-lu,"  poem,  34 
Hsi-shih,  ancient  beauty,  76,  192 
"Hsi-tz'u,"  18,  22 

Hsiu-lien   (Ying  Chii),  36,  146,  240,  255 
Hsiung,  "odd,"  211 
Hsu,  empty,   174/2 

Hsu,  prefatory  form,  20,  87,  101,  171 
Hsiian,  Chin  emperor,  240 
Hsiian   (Kung-sun  Pin-chi),  Han  emperor, 

230,  209,   236;  ///,   47;   letter  to  Ch'en 

Sui,  112;  on  Li-sao,  27;  poetry,  41 
Hsiian,  king  of  Chou,  209 
Hsiian,  queen  of  Ch'in,  88 
Hsiian,   mysterious,    102/2 
Hsiian-p'u,   27 
Hsiian  Wu-she  of  Hsiao,  81 
Hsiian-yiian,  see  Yellow  Emperor 
Hsiieh  Tsung,  80 
Hsiieh  Ying,   89 

Hsui-ts'ai,   outstanding  talents,   143 
Hsu  Kan,  see  Wei-ch'ang 
Hsu  Ling,  of  Liang  dynasty,  xxv 
Hsiin,  to   elucidate  or   admonish,   218;   to 

give  instruction,  112/2 
Hsiin-ch'ing,  see   Hsiin   K'uang 
Hsiin  Hsu,  42 
Hsiin     K'uang     (Hsiin-ch'ing,     Hsiintzu), 

xiii,  12/2,  92,  97;  in  Ch'u,  235;  fu,  48, 

251;   "Li"  and   "Chih,"   46;   on  literary 

expression,  130;  principle  of  music,  xv; 

"Ts'an-fu,"  82;  utilitarian  approach,  xiv; 

works  of,  99 
Hsiin-tien,  classical,    125 
Hsiintzu,  see  Hsiin  K'uang 
Hsiin  Yiieh,  see  Chung-yii 
Hsiu-po  (Po  Ch'in),  239 
Hsu    Shen,   lexicographer,    10/2,   208/2 


Hsu  Yang-yuan,  24/2 

Hu  (state),  and  Yiieh,  228 

Hii,  particle,    189 

Hua,   mount,   60 

Hua  Ch'iao,  89 

Huai,  Chin  emperor,  241 

Huai,  character,  213 

Huai-nan,  see  An,  prince 

Huai-nan-tzu,  98,  208/2 

Huan,  Han  emperor,  131/2,  238 

Huan,  duke  of  Ch'i,  117,  122;  re  women 

and  government,  88 
Huang,  emperor,  see  Yellow  Emperor 
Huang-chung,  note  of  scale,  149,   185 
Huang  Hsiang,  character,  266;  tsou-ch'ien, 

1 47 

Huang  Kuan,    132 

"Huang-niao,"  poem  of  lament,  69 

Huang-ti,  see  Yellow  Emperor 

Huang  T'ing-chien,  xlv 

Huang  Tsu,   146 

Huan  I,  67 

Huan  Lin,  75 

Huan  T'an   (Chiin-shan),  5,  24,  71,   156, 

260;    on    individual   talent,    172;    rhyme 

scheme,  188;  on  stylistic  ornamentation, 

167;  works,  253 
Huan   Wen,   119 
Hua  Yuan,  78 
Hui,  emperor  of  the  Han,  51 
Hui-chen,  monk,  xxxiv 
Hui-hsing,  little  stars,  246 
Hui-shih,  97 

Hui-ti,  Buddhist  name  of  Liu  Hsieh,  xxxiv 
Huitzu,  elegy  for,  64 
"Hui-wen"  poetry,  38 
Hu   Kuang   (Po-shih),   67,   72,   127;   "Pai- 

kuan,"  62 
Human  affairs,  feng  and  ya,  50 
Human   nature,   absolute  principles,    17  f. 
Humor,  78  ff. 
Hung-fan,  5 
"Hung-fan,"  22 
Hung-ming  chi,  xxxiii 
Huns,  202/2 
Hunting,  fu  re,  200/2 
Huo  Tzu-hou,  69 
Hu  Yung-lin,  xlv 

I,    of   Hsia,    27  f.;    shooting   down    of    the 

suns,  29,  98 
I,  ruler  of  Yu-ch'iung  tribe,  221 


286 


Index 


I,  minister  of  Shun  (Yu),  52,  191,  250 

/,  to  adhere,  68  f. 

/,  discourse  and  discussion,  xxvi,  101,  127, 
137  f.,  144,  171;  requirements  for  writ- 
ing of,  140;  tui-ts'e  and  she-ts'e,   141 

/,  to   dispatch,   120,   171 

/,  particle,   189 

7,  righteousness,  xiv 

7,  suitable,   135 

I  Ch'i,  54 

I  Chih  (I  Yin),  xiii,  52,  158;  "I-hsiin," 
250;  memorial  to  T'ai-chia,  126;  skuo, 
105 

7  Ching,  see  Boo\  of  Changes 

Ideas,  association  of,  246;  clarification  of, 
186;  development  of,  227;  literary  form 
of  expression  of,  14,  179  ff.,  231;  rela- 
tion to  thought  and  language,  156 

I-fu    (Wang   Yen),    103 

/-/',  feeling  of  attachment,  246 

Illustrations,  Five,  15 

Images,   Four,    15,   215 

Imagination,  xlii,   154 

Immortality,  belief  in,  131;  cult  of,  36; 
quest  for,  94;  Taoism  and,  225/2 

Impeachment,  tsou,  132 

Inscriptions,  gold,  123;  of  imperial  achieve- 
ments, 122;  stone,  66,  124 

Insight,   intuitive,   109,   155  f.,   157 

Inspiration,  Confucius  as  source  of,  xxi; 
Wen-fu  on,  xxviii 

Instruction,  four  elements  of,  21;  and 
genius,  xlii;  and  talent,  xxvi;  see  also 
Learning 

Insult,  law  re,   138 

I  tribe,  King  Chao's  oath  to,  57 

I  Tun,  253 

"I-wen  chih,"   127 

I-wu,  see  Kuan  Chung 

I  Yin,  see  I  Chih 

l-yin,  95 

Jade,  pendant,  81,  185;  pipe,  4272;  powder, 
237;  purple,  24;  tablets,  10,  123;  tally, 
150;  vessel,  57 

Jao-ch'ao,   ts'e,    145 

Jou,  i^n 

Juan  Chi,  see  Ssu-tsung 

Juan  Hsien,   42 

Juan  Yii  (Yuan  Yu),  239;  chang  and  piao, 
128;  ju  and  hsi,  255;  letter-writing,  146, 
157;  on  Liu  Hsieh,  xlv;  tiao,  72 


Jui  Liang-fu,  78 

Jung,  casting,   179 

Ju-nan,  prince  of  the  Later  Han,  69 

Ju-tzu  Ying,  89 

Kai,  particle,  189 
K'ang,  king  of  Chou,  23  f.,   122 
Kang,  1572 

K'ang-hui    (Kung-kung),   29 
Kan   Lung,    137 

Kan  Pao  of  the  Chin,  90,  242,  257 
Kant,  Immanuel,   1272 
Kao,  emperor,  39B 

Kao,  to  inform,  76;  style  of,  xxxvi,  84 
Kao  Hou  of  Ch'i,  217  f. 
Kao-kao,  brightly  burning,  246 
Kao-kuei  hsiang-kung,  ruler,  see  Mao 
Kao  T'ang-lung,   132 
Kao-tsu,  see  Han-tsu 

Kao-tsung    (Wu-ting),   emperor,    134,   202 
Kao  Yao,  190,  250 
Karlgren,  Bernard,  2772 
Ke,  folk  song,  20,  171 
"K'e-chu,"  guest-host  ju,  46/2 
Ke  Hung  of  the  Chin  dynasty,  xxiii,  xxx  f. 
Keng-\'uei,  riddle,   81 
Ke-tien,  song,  206 
Ke-t'ien-shih,  32,  39 

"King    Without    Crown,"    title   of    Confu- 
cius, 12 
K'ou,  to  knock,   218 
K'u,  ruler,  50 
Ku,  particle,   189 
K'uai,  hexagram,  15,  144 
K'uai  K'uei,  55 
K'uai  T'ung,   106 
Kuan,  pass   or  credentials,  31/2,   148;   and 

pi,   151 
Kuan    Chung    (I-wu),    122;    faults,    265; 

hsi,  117;  ling,  150;  on  practice  of  i,  137; 

on  sound  and  emotion,  216;  works,  99 
K'uang,  music  master,  41,  263 
K'uang  Heng,    131 
Kuang-wu,  emperor  of  the  Later  Han,  24, 

in,    238;    letters,    112;    sacrifices,    123; 

stone  inscription,   124;   and  Tu  Tu,   65 
Kuan  Yin,  265 
"Ku-chu,"  poem  on,  35 
K'uei,  ancient  music  master,  41,  263;  eight 

timbres,  250 
K'uei,  one-legged  monster,  194 
"Kuei-hua,"   tune,    41 


Index 


287 


Kuei-ku,    96 

Kuei-kj4'tzu,  99,  106/2 

"Ku-ming,"    115 

"K'un,"   10 

K'un,   mount,   202,   208 

K'un,  hexagram,   191 

Kung,  musical  tone,  xviii,  171,  182,  211; 
and  shang,  226 

K'ung  An-kuo,  17/2,  105 

K'ung-chang  (Ch'en  Lin),  239,  259;  chang 
and  piao,  128;  faults,  264;  fu  and  hsi, 
255;  hsi  against  Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  119;  piao, 
128;    proverb,    153 

K'ung  Chia  of  the  Hsia  dynasty,  39 

K'ung  Ch'iu,  see  Confucius 

K'ung   Jung,  see  K'ung  Yung 

Kung  Kan,  see  Liu  Chen 

K'ung  Kuang,   133,  265,  266 

K'ung  K'uei,  60 

Kung-kung,  see  K'ang-hui 

Kung-li  (Chung  Ch'ang-t'ung),  87,  99 

K'ung-ming  (Chu-ke  Liang),  115,  128 

Kung-sen   Hung,   236 

Kung-sun   (Lung-tzu),  98 

Kung-sun  Hui,  251 

Kung-sun    Hung,    142,    236 

Kung-sun  Pin-chi,  see  Hsiian,  emperor 

Kung-sun  T'an-hui,  minister,   151 

Kung  Yang,   1972 

Kung-yang  Kao,  92 

K'ung  Yung  (Wen-chii),  115;  false  charge 
against,  133;  faults,  264;  "Hsiao-lien," 
104;  letters,  146;  memorial  re  Ni  Heng, 
128;  pi,  254;  stone  inscriptions,  67;  vital- 
ity,   163 

K'un-kang,  mount,  253 

K'un-lun,  mountain,  27 

K'un-wu,   metallurgist,    59 

Kuo  Chang,   265 

Kuo-ch'iao,  see  Tzu-ch'uan 

"Kuo-ch'in   lun,"    103 

Kuo-jeng,  26 

Kuo  Hsiang,  103 

Kuo  Kung,  138 

K'uo  P'u,  see  Ching-yang 

Kuo  Yu-tao,  67 

Ku  Yung,   131 

Lai,  to  bestow,  218 
Lan,  to  peruse,   77 

Language,  beauty  of,  156,  160;  and  cere- 
mony, 14;  choice  of,  xxii,  15;  and  con- 


tent, 248  ff.;  diplomatic,  250;  and  emo- 
tion, xxxv,  xxxix,  246;  and  ideas,  98; 
key  to  apprehension,  154;  and  truth, 
xvi;  see  also  Words 

Laotzu  (Po-yang;  Tan),  37,  102;  on  beau- 
tiful words,  175;  and  Confucius,  95; 
philosophy,  242;  Tao  principle,  36/2;  on 
tao  and  te,  95 

Law,  officers  of,   132;  studies  of,   102 

Learning,  and  experience,  155,  157,  168, 
261;  and  literature,  xiv;  proper  method 
of,   161 

Legalism,  in  argument,   137/2 

Legalists,  131 

Lei,  elegy,  xxvi,  xxix,  20,  45??,  56,  64,  171, 
256;  and  sung,  66 

Letters,  chao  as,  in;  types  of,  153 

Lexicography,  209 

Li,  king,  234 

Li,  duke  of  Chin,  117 

Li,  mount,   131 

Li,  hexagram,   15 

Li,  principle  of  conduct,  xv,   131 

Li,  style  of  script,  209 

Liang,  prince,   107 

Liang  dynasty,  xi,  xxv,  xxxiii 

Liang,  a  couple,  220 

Liang  Chi,  264 

Liang-fu,  mount,   123 

Lice,  six,  98 

Li-chi,  see  Boo\  of  Rites 

Li  Ch'ung,   xxx/2 

Lieh,  character,  213;  narrative  account,  148, 
152 

Lieh-chuan,   biographies,    87 

Lieh-yii-k'ou   (Lieh-tzu),  97,  99 

Lien-chu,  continuous  string  of  pearls,  74, 
76,   171 

Li  I-chi,  106 

"Li-ho"  poems,  38 

Li  K'ang,  103 

Li  Kuang,  148,  177/2 

Li  Ling,  34 

Li-tnu,  95 

Lin,  see  Ch'en  Lin 

Lin,  unicorn,  143/2 

Ling,  emperor,  239 

Ling,  duke  of  Wei,  60 

Ling,  order,  no,  148,  150 

Ling-chun,  see  Chii   Yuan 

Li-sao,  xliii,  72;  and  the  Classics,  xxxvi: 
fantastic  tales  in,  29;  as  model,  248 


288 


Index 


Li  Ssu,  prime  minister,  204,  217;  and 
Ch'in's  chuan,  209;  legalist  inscriptions, 
123;  lexicon,  2ion,  211;  memorial,  131, 
251;  shuo,  107 

Li  T'ang  of  Shang,  54 

Literary  composition,  choice  of  words  and 
characters,  211;  cutting,  232;  flaws  in, 
216  ff.;  immortalization  through,  94; 
miscellaneous  forms,  73  ff.;  opening  and 
closing,  228  f.;  organization,  225  ff.;  re- 
condite and  conspicuous  elements,  214  ff.; 
six  points  for  study,  262;  structure, 
186  ff.;  Wen-fu  on,  xxviif.;  wind  and 
bone,   i62ff. 

Literature,  appreciative  critic  and,  xlv;  clas- 
sification, xxxix;  development,  xxxviii, 
233  ff.;  function,  xxx,  xli;  growth  in 
esthetic  awareness,  xxiv;  law  and  merit 
of,  169;  and  learning,  xviii;  and  na- 
ture, xxxv,  xxxviii;  pure,  xxii,  xxv 

Liu   An,  see  An,  prince  of  Hsui-nan 

Liu  Chen  (Kung  Kan),  5,  35>  38,  239; 
ch'ien  and  chi,  147;  lien-chu,  76;  on 
literary  styles,  172;  metaphors,  197;  rhet- 
oric, 255;  style,  160;  vitality,  163 

Liu    Chih-chi,    xlv 

Liu  Chi-hsu,  259 

Liu  Fang,  secretary  of  the  Wei,  113 

Liu  Hsiang,  see  Tzu-cheng 

Liu  Hsieh  (alias  Yen-ho),  xi,  xxxiii;  and 
Buddhism  1030;  Buddhist  name,  xxxiv; 
classicism,  xxxiv,  xliiiff.;  on  Confucius, 
16;  personal  style,  xliv;  prosodic  laws, 
xxxi;  view  of  literary  criticism,  xxxvii; 
Wen-hsin    tiao-lang,   xxx  ff. 

Liu  Hsien-kung,  117 

Liu  Hsin,  167,  253,  260;  *',  120,  138; 
rhyme  scheme,  188;  "Sui-ch'u  fu,"  204; 
re  Yang  Hsiung,  xxi 

Liu  K'un  of  the  Chin,  iron  oath,  58;  me- 
morial to  Emperor  Yuan,  129;  parallel- 
ism,   193;   style,   257 

Liu-sha,    27 

Liu   Shao,   240;   "Chao-tu   fu,"   205,   255 

Liu   Sung,   memorial,   132 

Liu  Sung  period,   243,  257,   258 

Liu  T'ao,  65 

Liu-t'ao,  two  lun,  101 

Liu  Wei,  of  Chin,  133,  241 

Li  Yen-nien,  composer,   41,   44 

Li  Yu,  ju  and  ming,  253;  inscriptions,  61 


Lo,  goddess  of,  201 

Logic,  in  fundamental  principles,  xxxv; 
in  literary  style,  159;  studies  of,  102 

Lords,   military   expeditions,    117 

Lo-shu,  see  Writing  from  the  River  Lo 

Lou   Hu,  see  Chiin-ch'ing 

Love  songs,  43 

Loyalty,  classic  example  of,  28,  72/2 

Lii,  Han  empress,  88 

Lu,  state,  xix,  27  f.,  50 

Lu,   record,   148L 

Lu,  road,   149 

Lu,  law,   148  f.;  pitchpipe,   149 

Luan,  conclusion,  47 

Lu  Chi  of  the  Chin  (Shih-heng),  xi,  48; 
and  his  brother  Yun,  241;  ch'ien,  147; 
discussion  of  biographies,  139;  faults, 
265;  historical  writings,  90;  *  to  the  hun- 
dred officials,  120;  influence  of  Chuang- 
tzu,  xxviiif.;  "Kung-ch'en,"  52;  lien-chu, 
76;  musical  nature  of  writing,  184; 
"Pien-wang,"  103;  songs,  44;  style, 
161,  181,  256;  tiao  to  Wei  Wu,  72;  Wen- 
ju,  quoted,  xxvii  ff .,  xxxvii,  5,  181, 
184,   230;   "Yuan-k'uei,"   206 

Lu  Chia,  historian,  47,  106  f.;  Ch'u-han 
ch'un-ch'iu,  86;  Hsin-yti,  99;  works,  252 

Liieh,  precis,  77 

Lii  Hsiang,  hsi,   117 

Lii-hsien,    in    Shangtung    province,    xxxiii 

Lu  I,  ch'ien,  147 

Lii-lan  (Lu-shih  ch'un-ch'iu),  86  £.,  97,  99 

Lun,  discourse,  20,  99,  101  ff.,  137;  essay, 
xxvi,  xxix,   171 

Lung,  short  song,  77 

Lung-tzu,  see  Kung-sun 

Lung-yu,  city,  111 

Lun-yu,  see  Analects 

Lu  P'ei,   142 

Lii  Pu-Wei,  102 

Lii   Shang,   ioi«;  see  also  Lii  Wang 

Lii-shih  ch'un-ch'iu,  see  Lii-lan 

Lute,    184 

Lu  Ts'ui  (Wen-wei),  239;  charge  against 
K'ung  Yung,  133;  faults,  265;  memoirs, 
255;  poverty  of,  265 

Lii  Wang,  59;  see  also  Lii  Shang 

Lu  Wen-shu  of  Han,  151 

Lu  Yiin  (Shih-lung),  5,  223;  on  form 
vs.  content,  172;  on  four-word  line,  188; 
style,  181,  256 


Index 


289 


Ma,  see  Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju 

Ma,  character,  209 

Ma  Jung,  see  Ma  Yung 

Man,  in  the  Great  Trinity,  9 

Mandate,  ming,  no 

Mandate  of  Heaven,  21,  23,  in 

Mao,  description,   152 

Mao  Ch'ang  (Lesser  Mao),  26/2,  105/2 

Mao-ch'iang,  ancient  beauty,  192 

Mao  Heng  (Great  Mao),  commentary  on 
Boo\  of  Poetry,  26/2,  45/2,  195;  philo- 
logical commentary,  105 

Mao  (Kao-kuei  hsiang-kung),  240;  rid- 
dles, 82 

Mao-hsien,  see  Chang   Hua 

Mao  Sui,  57 

Maps,  3,  23  f.;  see  also  Yellow  River  Map 

Maxims,  ancient,  203 

Ma  Yuan,  115 

Ma  Yung,  4,  51,  238,  265;  "Ch'ang-ti," 
197;  faults,  264;  "Kuang-ch'eng  sung," 
168;  style,  253  f. 

Medicis,  xxv 

Mei  Kao,  47,  236;  faults,  80;  writing 
speed,   156 

Mei  Sheng,  Han  poet,  30,  47,  236,  254; 
character,  266;  "Ch'i-fa,"  73,  168,  252; 
rhyme  scheme,  188;  "T'u-yiian,"  48, 
197 

Memorials,  forms  of,  126  ff.,  171  £.;  oral, 
126,  130;  on  posthumous  titles,  152;  se- 
cret, 135;  shuo  as,  107;  tsou  and  ch'i, 
130  ff. 

Mencius  (Meng  K'o),  xli,  96;  on  the  Boof^ 
of  Poetry,  xiii,  200;  in  Ch'i,  235;  on 
ch'i,  xiv;  re  moral  depravity,  22372;  on 
mystical  experience,  xvi;  ridicule  of 
Mohists,  133;  studies  by  I.  A.  Richards, 
xlvi;  works,  99 

Meng,  oath,  20,  57 

Meng-chien,  see  Pan  Ku 

Meng  K'o,  see  Mencius 

Meng-shan,  prayer  to,  57 

Meng-ssu,  the  mythical  pool,   168 

Meng-yang,  see  Chang  Tsai 

Metaphor,  xlii,  28,  47 

Metaphysics,  103,  240/2,  242;  treatises  on, 
102 

Meteorites,  five,  19 

Milfoil  stems,  divination  by,  12,  121 

Military  tactics,  fa  and,  150 

Min,  Chin  emperor,  241 


Mind,   literary,    xxxviii,   3;    types   of,   231; 

vigor  of,  223 
Ming,   emperor   of  the  Eastern   Chin,    113 
Ming   (Hsien-tsung),  emperor  of  the  later 

Han,    51;    chao,     112  £.;    discourse    on 

rites,  239;  literary  interests,  240  f.;  pane- 
gyric to,  217 
Ming,  inscription,  xxvi,  20,  52,  59  ff.,  171; 

and    chiao,    116;    four    categories,    no; 

mandate,  150;  mnemonic,  xxix 
Ming-i,  hexagram,  203 
Min-ma  Fu,  47 
Mirror,  pendant,   62 
Miu  Hsi  of  the  Wei  dynasty,  44,  240 
Mohists,   xiv,    133 
Mo  Ti,  96,  99,  133 
Mountains,   inscriptions   on,   60,    122;    and 

rivers,  57,  212 
Mourning,  55,  78/2;  royal,  56 
Mu,  king  of  Ch'in,  69 
Mu,  king  of  the  Chou,  56,  66,  114,  117 
Mu,  duke  of  Ch'in,  251 
Mu,  duke  of  Tsou,  152 
Mu,  literary  form,   84,  90 
Music,  characteristic  of  an  age,  xli;  linked 

with  meaning,  40;  and  literature,  182  ff.; 

in    nature,    9;    and    poetry,    xi,    xli,    32; 

popular,  262;  principle  of,  xv;  reflection 

of   government   in,    xix,    40;    and   sung, 

50/2;  ya  and  sung,   85 
Musical    instruments,    materials    for,    44/2; 

metal  rule  for,  42/2;  and  the  voice,  182 
Music  masters,  blind,  43 
"Mysterious   butcher,"    155 
Mysticism,  xvi,  23 

Nan-kuo,   185 

Nan  Shih,  94 

Narrative,    "guest-host,"    46;    see   also    Fu 

Nature,  descriptions  of,  245  ff.;  and  lit- 
erature, xxxv,  xxxviii;  patterns  in,  8,  9; 
sounds    and    appearances,    167  f. 

Neo-Confucians,  31/2 

Ni  Heng  (Cheng-p'ing),  128,  146;  faults, 
264;  tiao  to  P'ing-tzu,  72;  wen,  254; 
writing    habit,    157 

Ni  K'uan,  228,  236 

Nirvana,    103/2 

Niu,  mount,  223 

"No,"  the,  47,  51 

Nonaction,  concept,  102/2 

Nonbeing   (Great  Void),  xxix,   103 


290 


Index 


Nothingness,   or   void,    102/2 
Nu,  word,  211 

Oath,   57  £.,   no,   1 16  £.,   205 

Odd   and   strange,   in   literary   works,    160, 

183,   211,   222  £.,   230  f.;   wrong  use  of, 

164 
Odes,  xxxvii,   11 
Officials,  character  of,  265;  exhortations  to, 

61;   one   hundred,   61  f. 
Omens,   85,   122L,   142 
Oracular  judgments,   n 

"Pai-hsing,"    term,    now 

Pai-hu  hall,  102 

Palaces,  fu  on,  47 

Pan,  woman  palace  official,  34 

Pan  Chi  (Pan  Chao),  sister  of  Pan  Ku,  115 

P'an  Hsu,  Classics  as  model  for,  163; 
"Chiu-hsi,"  113;  conferment  edict,  254; 
lien-chu,  76;  on  tallies,  62 

P'an-keng,  Yin  ruler,  203 

Pan  Ku  (Meng-chien),  historian,  92,  238, 
239,  265;  chi  to  Empress  Lii,  88;  re 
Ch'ii  Yuan,  27;  and  the  Classics,  205; 
criticism  of,  93;  faults,  264;  epigraph, 
60;  fu,  xxx,  46;  re  Fu  I,  259;  historical 
writings,  87;  "Hsi-tu  fu,"  200;  "Liang- 
tu,"  48;  literary  talent,  253;  metaphors, 
197;  "Pei-cheng,"  51;  "Pin-hsi,"  74; 
prayer  to  Meng-shan,  57;  style,  160; 
sung,  51;  "Tien-yin,"  124;  tsan,  53;  use 
of  quotation,  204 

P'an  Ni,  36/2,  62 

Pan  Piao  (Shu-p'i),  72,  87;  memorials, 
238;    "Wang-ming    lun,"    102,    253 

Pan   Po,    135 

P'an  Yiieh  (An-jen),  36/?;  elegies;  57,  65; 
flaw  in  writing  of,  217;  forged  prayer, 
265;  fu,  48;  "Hsi-cheng  fu,"  256;  joke, 
80;  laments,  69;  proverb,  153;  style, 
161,  184;  "Ying-fu,"  197  f. 

P'an  Yiieh  Chan,   241 

P'ao,  musical  instrument,  216 

Pao-chuang-tzu,  207 

Pao-hsi  (Fu-hsi),  legendary  ruler,  10,  24, 
88;  and  the  six  lexigraphic  principles, 
208  f. 

Pao  Yung,  107 

Parables,   195 

Paragraph,  186 

Parallelism,    linguistic,    190  ff.,    220  f. 


Particles,   189 

Paso,   17 

Pattern(s),    changes    in,    12;    human,    9  f.; 

literary,    xxxixf.;    musical,    185;    sound, 

xxxi;  three  (color,  sound,  and  emotion), 

175;  as  universal  quality,  8 
Peach  and  plum  trees,  177 
Pearls,  in  magnolia  case,  141;  stringing,  76 
P'ei  (Fu),  prince,  238 
Pei,  inscription,  xxix,  66,  171 
Pei-hai   (Prince  Ching),  66 
Pei-hsien  Fu,  prince,   24 
P'ei  Wei,   103 

P'eng  Hsien,  worthy  of  the  Yin  dynasty,  29 
Pheasants,  good  omen,  142 
Philology,   208  ff. 
Philosophy,   ancient   China,   xi,    100/2;   and 

literature,   xxii,    176;   works   of,   94  ff. 
Phoenix,   27,   85 
Phonetic  compound,  21  2/2 
Pi,  brush,  229/2;  unrhymed  prose,  6,  229; 

useful    literature,    xxiv 
Pi,    hexagram,    121;;,    178 
Pi,  metaphor,   26/7,   195,   196  f. 
P'i,  one  of  a  pair,  220 
Piao,   ch'i   used    as,    134;    to   express,    127, 

129;  memorial  of  feeling,   171 
Piao-piao,  fast  and  heavy,  246 
Pieh,  character,  213 
Pi  en,   argument,    137 
Pien,  change,  175/2 
P'ien,   literary   form,   77 
Pien-i,  term,  135 
P'i-fu,  parallelism  in  use  of,   220 
P'i  ma,  term,  220 

"Pin"  lyrics,  see  under  Boo\  of  Poetry 
P'ing,  Han  emperor,  24,  209 
P'ing,  empress,  88 
P'ing,  king  of  the  Chou,  84  f.,  234 
P'ing,   critique,    101 
P'ing,   flying   tone,   183 
P'ing-shu,  see  Ho  Yen 
P'ing-tzu,  see  Chang  Heng 
P'ing-yiian,  prince,  106/2 
Pitch,   standard,   42 
Pitch  pipes,  39/2,  42,  149 
Plagiarism,  219 
Plato,  xii,  95« 
Po,  mixed,   137  f. 
Po-chieh,  see  Ts'ai  Yung 
Po   Ch'in,   see   Hsiu-po 
Po-chii,  30 


Index 


291 


Po  Chu-i,  and  moral  insight,  xix 

Poetry,  31;  Classical  definition  expanded, 
xxix  f.,  xxxiii;  development  and  function 
of,  31  ff.;  distinguished  from  fu,  46;  ele- 
ments of,  37;  emotion  and  literary  form, 
176;  function  of  remonstrance  and  ad- 
monition, xix;  and  government,  xix;  line 
patterns,  xxx«,  xxxii,  34,  37,  38,  69,  70, 
187;  and  music,  xxxvi  f.,  32,  5072; 
"round  robin,"  236;  and  sound,  43;  the- 
ory of,  xi;  utilitarian  view  of,  xxxvi 

Poets,   classified   by    merit,   xxxii 

Po-i,  condolences  to,   72 

Po-i,  memorial,  137  f.,  143 

Po-liang,  tower,  34,  38,  236 

Po-lu,  $6n 

Po-shih,  see  Hu  Kuang 

Po-shih,  learned  men,   I20n,   142 

Po-yang,  see  Laotzu 

Praise,  function  of  poetry,  33;  mixed  with 
censure,  52,  53;  in  sacrificial  prayer,  56 

Prajna,   103 

Prayers,  55,  123 

Pretentiousness,    literary,    173,    218  f. 

Profundity,  in  literary  works,  159,  260 

Pronunciation,   standardized,   209  f. 

Prophecy,  maps  as  symbols  of,  23 

Prosody,  laws  of,  xxxi 

Proverbs,  ancient,  152 

Pu,  to  spread  out,  151 

Pu,  warrant,  148 

P'u,   chronicle,    148 

P'u,  vegetable  garden,  148 

Purple,  color,   25 

Pu-wei,  see  Lu  Pu-wei 

Quotation,  from  earlier  writers,  254 

Raccoon,  78 

Radical,  repetition  of,  212 

Rain,  prayers  for,  54 

Rainbow,   169 

Reading,  homophonous,  219 

Realism,  in  description,  248 

Reasoning,  in  Spring  and  Autumn  Annals, 

19 
Recruits,  hsi  re,  120 
Records,  terms  for,  148 
Red,   color,    25,    167;    mixed    with    white, 

127;  words,  10 
"Red  Book,"  apocrypha,  23,  122 
Reference,  textual,  202  ff . 


Remonstrance,   inscriptions,   59;   memorials 

of,  131;  poetic,  xix,  28,  34 
Repetition,  of  characters,  212 
Reverence,  expression  of,  146 
Revision,  literary,  228 
Rhetoric,   165;   editing  of,   179;  overuse  of, 

140 
Rhyme,  183,  188 
Richards,  I.  A.,  xlvi 
Riddles,  82 
Rites,  Five,  4;  imperial,  238;  see  also  Book. 

of  Rites 
"Round  robin"  poetry,  34/2,  38 
Rule,  metal,  for  measuring  pitch,   42 
Rulers,  chi  reserved  for,   88/2;   inscriptions 

to,    59  f.,    122;    prohibition   re   name   of, 

13472;    women,    88;    words   of,    in 

Sacrifice(s),  to  all  the  deities,  54;  gen- 
erals as,  69;  to  heaven  and  earth,  I2iff.; 
officer  of,  55;  and  walled  terraces,  66 

Sage,  definition,  13;  and  government,  xxiii 

San- } en,  10,  17 

San-kung,  office,   147 

San-lii,    51,    196 

Sao,  lament,  249;  analysis  of,  25  ff.;  and 
jeng  and  ya,  xxxvi;  and  fu,  46;  literary 
style,   170;  use  of  pi  and   hsing,   196 

Sao  of  the  Ch'u,  see  Ch'u-tz'u 

Sarcophagus,  60 

Scale,  chromatic,  149/2;  five-note,  17m, 
18222;  intervals,  39;  notes.  4222,  148, 
182;    twelve-tone,    185 

Scholar (s),  competition  among,  216;  defi- 
nition, 13;  discussions  called  lun,  102; 
eight  talented,  135;  and  government, 
266;  selection  of,  141,  143  f. 

Schools,  Nine,  83,  96 

Script,  double,  210 

Seasons,  84,  245 

Seng-yu,  edits  Buddhist  sutras,  xxxiii 

Sentence,  186,  189  f. 

Seven   Epitomes   of   Literature,   96/2 

Seven  States  period,  letters,  145;  ling,  no; 
memorials,   126  f. 

"Seven  Worthies  of  the  Bamboo  Grove,*' 
26622 

Shan,  24,   124 

Shang  (Yin),  972;  ancestor  of  the  Shang, 
33,  6572,  116,  203 

Shang,   to  appreciate,   218 


292 


Index 


Shang,  musical  note,  xviii,   171,   182,  211 
Shang    dynasty,    11,    28/2,    250;    book    of 

divination,  98a;   poetry,   166;  shih,  84; 

sung,  50 
S hangs hu,  meaning,   131 
S hangs hu  to-chuan,  213 
Shang  Yang,  96,  137 
Shanshih,  contour  of  a  mountain,  169/2 
Shao,  duke,  on  chen  and  fu,  45 
Shao,  xii 
Shao-hao,  24 

"Shao-hsia,"    41,    175,    206 
Shao-k'ang,  27/2,  28/7 
Shaoshao,  brilliant,  246 
She,  lord  of,  81 
Sheep,  sacrifice  of,  55 
Sheepskin,  in  cryptic  message,  82/2 
Shen,  concept  of,  xvi 
Shen  Chung  of  the  Northern  Chou,  xviii/2 
Shen  family,  243 
Sheng,  musical  instrument,  216 
Sheng-chi,  King  Mu's  concubine,  56 
Shen-hua,  term,  xx 
Shen  Nung,  see  I  Ch'i 
Shen  Pu-hai,  96 
Shen  Shu-i  of  Wu,  81 
Shenssu,  spiritual  thought  or  imagination, 

154  ff. 
Shen  Tao,  99 
Shen  Yiieh,  xxxi,  xlv 
She-ts'e,  memorial,  141 
Shield  and  spear,  171 
Shih,  formula,    148  f. 
Shih,   historical    writing,    171;   official,   64, 

84 
Shih,  oath,  45/2,  77 
Shih,   poetry,   31  ff. 
Shih,  to  resolve,   151 
Shih,  solid,  174/2 
Shih,  style,   169/2,   170 
Shih  Chao,  71 
Shih-chi,  90,  98 
"Shih-chia,"  biographies,  87/2 
Shih  Chiao,  96,  99 
Shih-ching,  see  Boo\  of  Poetry 
Shih-chiu  bird,  195 
Shih-ch'ii  palace,  102 
Shih-heng,  see  Lu  Chi 
Shih-hsii,   233  ff. 
Shih  Hui  of  Sui,  250 
Shih-lung,  see  Lu  Yun 


Shih  Ts'en,  51 

Shih  Wei,  46 

Shou-ling,  Han-tan  gait,  76,  174 

Shou-yang,  mount,  72/7 

Shu,  to  bind  or  control,  150 

Shu,  epistle,  xxvi,  127,  131,  144,  165,  171 

Shu,  narratives,  53 

Shu,  operation,   148  f. 

Shu,  sales  slip,   148,  151 

Shu-ch'i,  condolences  to,  72 

Shu-chi,  forms  of,  148 

Shu-ching,  see  Boo\  of  History 

Shu  Hsi,  joke,  80 

Shu-hsiang  of  Chin,  117 

Shun  (Yu-yii),  legendary  ruler,  xii/2,  28, 
238;  "Hsun-feng,"  233  f.;  "Nan-feng," 
32,  189;  on  poetry,  31;  prayer  to  the 
field  deity,  54;  royal  warning,  116;  sacri- 
fice to  T'ai-shan,   122;   re  shu,    144 

Shun  tree,  178 

Shuo,  argument,  xxix,  20,  45/2,  101,  105, 
107 

Shu-p'i,  see  Pan  Piao 

Shu-sun  T'ung,  41 

Shu-t'ung,  see  Ts'ao  Pao 

Shu-ya,  see  Hsi  K'ang 

Signific  element,  212/2 

Silkworm,  78 

Six  Dynasties  period,  xliv 

"Small  Talk,"  literary  form,  83 

Snail,  antenna  of,  97 

Social  customs,  Boo\  of  Rites  and,  18 

Songs,  nine,  39;  popular,  78;  reflection  of 
government  in,  234;  string-  and  wind-ac- 
companied, 42;  style  of  the  nine  dynas- 
ties, 166 

Songs  of  Ch'u,  188 

Son  of  Heaven,  59,  118 

Sorcerer,  52/2,  56 

Sounds,  choice  of,  185;  pattern  of,  175, 
186,  211,  246 

Sparrows,  divine,  238 

Speech,  kjung  and  shang,  211 

Spelling,  reverse,  219 

Spirits,  prayers  to,  50;  tiao  to,  71 

Spontaneity,  xliii,  215 

Spring  and  Autumn  Annals,  xxi;  em- 
bellishment, 222;  Five  Illustrations,  17; 
literary  forms,  20 

Ssu,  prince    (Ts'ao  Chih),   255 

Ssu-chih,  officials,   136 


Index 


293 


Ssu-^'u  ch'uan-shu  chien-ming  mu-lu,  xlv 

Ssu-ma  Ch'ien  (Shih-ch'ien;  Tzu-ch'ang), 
86,  92,  236,  252,  260;  chi  to  Empress 
Lii,  88;  criticism  of,  93;  letter  to  Jen- 
an,  145;  literary  quality,  87;  Shih-chi, 
79  f->  95«>   123;   tsan,   53 

Ssu-ma  Chih,  139 

Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju,  30,  34,  47,  III,  156; 
character,  267;  criticism  of,  210;  dispatch 
(1),  120;  faults,  264;  "Feng-shan,"  123; 
fu,  xviii,  xx,  xxx,  71,  163;  lexicon  Fan- 
chiang  p'ien,  209;  literary  models,  252; 
lowly  station,  265;  parallelism,  191; 
"Shang-lin,"  48,  168,  192,  200,  204,  206; 
songs,  41;  style,  160,  247;  tsan,  53; 
"Tzu-hsii  fu,"  259 

Ssu-ma  Piao,  works  of,  89 

Ssu-ma  Shih,  228/? 

Ssu-ma  T'an,  historian,  86 

Ssu-tsung  (Juan  Chi),  161,  240,  255 

Ssu-t'u,  office  of,  112,  115/2 

Stone,  inscriptions  on,  60 

Stone  Chamber,  204 

Stone  monument,  pei,  66 

Style,  literary,  xli,  1581?.;  changing  periods 
in,  167;  ch'i,  xxvi;  choice  of,  169  ff.;  de- 
velopment of,  237  f.;  eight  kinds,  159; 
evolution  of,  222  f.;  and  individual  tal- 
ent, 180  f.;  pretentiousness  in,  218  f.; 
pure  and  impure,  97  f.;  wind  and  bone 
in,   162  ff. 

Su  Ch'in,  71,  96/2,   106,  251 

Sui-ch'ao,  99 

Su-jan,  mount,  123 

Sun,  ceremonies  of  welcome  to,  55 

Sun  Ch'o,  37,  67,  257 

Sun  Ch'u,  241,  256,  265 

Sunflower,  poem,  206  f. 

Sung,  state,  70,  192 

Sung,  ceremonial  and  sacrificial  songs, 
xxix,  20,  26/2,  50,  56,  125,  171,  176, 
196;  of  the  Han,  166;  and  lei,  66;  music 
of,  xv ;  and  tsan,  53;  words  in,  218;  and 
ya,  235;  Yin,  47 

"Sung,"  see  under  Boo\  of  Poetry 

Sung  period,  development  of  poetry,  37; 
literary  style,  167;  mysticism,  103 

Sung  Hung,  fu,  253 

Sun  Sheng  (An-kuo),  242,  257;  Yung- 
ch'iu,  90 


Sung  Yii,  252;  Ch'u-tz'u,  251;  "Feng"  and 
"Tiao,"  46;  fu,  48;  "Kao-t'ang  fu," 
197;  re  "Pai-hsueh,"  262;  references  to 
Ancient  Poets,  203;  "Shen-nii  fu,"  192; 
style,  235;  tui-wen,  73;  use  of  exaggera- 
tion, 200;  witty  fu,  79;  works,  30 

Sun  Wu-tzu,  Sun-tzu,  267 

Su-shen  tribe,  buckthorn  arrow,  59 

Su  Shih  of  the  Sung,  xxi 

Su  Shun   (Hsiao-shan),  65,  69 

Swallow,  39/2,  65/2 

Symbolism,    23  f. 

Ta,  to  convey,  151 

Ta-chao,  30 

Ta-ch'u,  hexagram,  203 

Tai,  marquis,  see  Tou  Jung 

Tai,  songs  of,  41 

T'ai,  mount,  122 

T'ai-ch'ang,   office,    120,    142 

T'ai-chia,  126 

T'ai-ch'u    (Hsia-hou   Hsiian),   102 

T'ai-ch'ung,  see  Tso   Ssu 

T'ai  Hao,   10/2 

T'ai-k'ang,  33 

T'ai-kung,    105 

T'ai-p'u  of  the  Chou,  132 

T'ai-tsu,   243  f. 

T'ai-wang,   234 

Talent,  individual,  xxvi,  xxxi,  3,  38,  164  f., 
172,  259  ff.,  266;  differences  in,  xli, 
156,  1 58  £.,  216;  and  learning,  xxxiii, 
204;  and  literary  organization,  227;  and 
literary  style,  170  f.;  and  vitality,  223 

Tan,  duke  of  Chou,  11,  15,  50,  59 

Tan,  see  Laotzu 

T'an,  see  Ssu-ma  T'an 

Tan-fu,   discussions,   136 

T'ang,  legendary  sage-king,  28,  54 

T'ang  dynasty,  xix,  13,  109  f.;  development 
of  writing,  11;  parallelism,  190;  poets, 
44/2;  prosody,  xxxii;  Tien,  84;  "Tsai- 
hsi,"   166 

Tao,  deviations  from,  24;  mind  of,  12,  iS; 
sages  and,  12;  source  of  literature,  6; 
and  te,  95,  122 

Tao,  principle,  xiv,  xv  f.,  xxxiv,  31;;,  94, 
199,  240/2;  pattern  of,  9 

T'ao   Ch'ien   of   the   Chin   dynasty,   xxxii 

Taoism,  xv  f.,  xxiv,  xxxvi,  36,  102/7,  131/; 

T'ao-t'ang,  legendary  ruler,  233 


294 


Index 


Tao-te-ching,  xxi,  9572 

Tao   Yuan,   38 

Taste,  sense  of,  105,  185 

Ta-ya,  major  ya,  i6n 

Te,  particular  principle,  95,   122 

Te-lien,  see   Ying   Yang 

Temperament,  effect  on  literary  works,  159 

Temples,  ancestral,  66 

Teng,  forest,   208 

Teng  Ts'an  of  the  Chin,  90 

Teng  Yii,   107,   112 

Te-tsu   (Yang  Hsiu),  239,  255 

Thought,  individual  speed  of,  156;  or- 
ganization of,   226 

Three  Kingdoms  period  (Hsia,  Shang, 
and  Chou),  89/2,  115,  117;  chen,  61; 
embellishment,  222;  form  of  agreement, 
57;  language  in  time  of,  222;  literary 
works,  29;  ming,  no;  rulers  advised  by 
common  people,  137;  San-fen  of,  17;  tal- 
ly, 150 

T'i,  genre,  169/2 

Tiao,  to  condole,  and  chih,  70 

Tiao  Hsieh,  241 

"Tiao-lung,"  dragon  carving,  in 

Tieh,  memorandum,  148,  151 

Tieh,  one-eyed  fish,   123 

Tien,  documents,  76,  84,  86,  11222;  lit- 
erary form,  90;  style  of,  xxxvi,  xli,  159 

Tien,  18,  1972 

Tien-\ao,  style,  28 

T'ien-lu  ko,  74 

Tien-mu,  124 

T'ien  Pa,  259 

Tien-wen,  30 

Tien  ya,  style,  xliv 

Ti-hsing,    158  ff. 

Timbres,  eight,  44,  250 

Ting,  duke,  92 

Ting  I    (Cheng-li),  255,  264  f. 

Ting  I    (Ching-li),   259 

Ting-lin   Monastery,   xxxiii 

T is hih,   term,    16977 

Title,  bestowal  of,  126;  posthumous,  64, 
70,   139,   152 

Tombs,  monuments  and,  67 

Tones,  39;  in  language,  and  colours,  xxxi; 
musical,  kinds  of,   182 

Tortoise,  divine,  22;  shells,   12,  61,   121 

Tou  Hsien,  60/2,  264 

Tou  Jung  (Marquis  Tai),  51 


Traditionalism,     vs.     flexible     adaptability, 

xliii 
Tranquility,  and  literary  composition,  224 
Trigrams,   10,   1772,  2222 
Tripod (s),  bronze,   59;   inscribed,   60,   63; 

nine,   106 
Truth,  attainment  of,  xvi;  and  beauty,  xxii; 

felicitous    expression    of,    xxix;    function 

of  Ian,   104 
Tsai,  to  convey,  3272;  particle,   189 
Ts'ai,  to  cut  or  tailor,  150,  179 
Ts'ai  Mou-fu,  lord,  117 
Ts'ai  Tse,   197 
Ts'ai   Yung    (Po-chieh),   72,   238,   254;   re 

court  rituals,   131;  epigraphs,  61;  "Fan- 

ch'ii,"    51;    "Hsi-hui,"    74;    parallelism, 

191;  stone  inscriptions,  67;  use  of  quota- 
tion, 204 
Tsan,    commentary,    52,    87,    101;    eulogy, 

20 
Ts'ang,  prince,  see  Tung-p'ing 
Ts'ang-Chieh,    historian,    84;    invention   of 

characters,   208 
Ts'ang-chieh  p'ien,  lexicon,  210 
Tsang  Ho,  78 
T'sang  Hung,  58 
Tsang   Wen-chung,    59,    81/2,    82/2 
Ts'an-tz'a,  descriptive  phrase,  246 
Ts'ao,  instrumental  music,  77 
Ts'ao  Chih,  see  Ch'en-ssu 
Ts'ao  Chii,  211 
Ts'ao  Hung,  20722 
Ts'ao  Jen,  207 
Ts'ao  Mo,  57 

Ts'ao  Pao  (Shu-t'ung),  24,  223 
Ts'ao    P'ei,    founder   of   Wei   dynasty,    see 

Wen,  emperor 
Ts'ao  Shu,  256 

Ts'ao  Ts'ao,  see  Wu,  Wei  emperor 
Tse,  principle,  149 
Tse,  sinking  tone,   183 
Ts'e,    edict,    20;    horsewhip    and    bamboo 

slip,  14522;  records,  86;  script,  109 
Tseng-lun,  term,   137 
Ts'e-shu,   script  of   enfeoffment,    no 
Tso,  to  pledge  a   host  in   wine,   218 
Tso  Ch'iu-ming,  50,  85,  87  f.,  94 
Tso-chuan,    27 
Tso  Hsiung,   127 
Tso    Ssu    (T'ai-ch'ung),    38,    241;    "Ch'i- 

feng,"  75,  217;  fu,  48,  156;  musical  na- 


Index 


295 


ture  of  writing,   184;   "San-tu-fu,"  256; 

Three   Capital  Fit,   xxix  £. 
Tsou,  ch'i  used  as,  134  f.;  memorial,  xxvi, 

xxix,   20,    127,    132,    147,    171;   word   of 

mouth,    126,    130 
Tsou-chi,  term,   147 
Tsou-ch'ien,   term,    147 
Tsou  Shih,  3,  235 
Tsou-shu,  memorial  letter,  147 
Tsoutzu    (Tsou   Yen),   96,   99,   235 
Tsou  Yang,  Han  poet,  236;  character,  266; 

memorial,   252;   shuo,    107 
Tsou   Yen,   see  Tsoutzu 
Ts'ui  family,   238 
Ts'ui   Shih,   Cheng-lun,   99;   "Ta-chi,"   74; 

tsou-chi,  147 
Ts'ui  Ssu,  "Ch'i-su,"  76 
Ts'ui  Tung-pi,  9522 
Ts'ui  Yin,  "Ch'i-i,"  75;  classical  allusions, 

204;    elegy    for    Chao,    65;    "Pai-kuan," 

62;    "Ta-chih,"   74;    style,    253;    weapon 

inscriptions,   61 
Ts'ui    Yuan,    253;    "Ch'i-su,"    75;    elegies, 

65,  217;  lament,  69;  letter  writing,  146; 

"Wen-hsiieh,"   51 
Tsung-shu,  art  of  writing,  229  ff. 
Ts'ung-wen  Kuan  monastery,  240 
Tu,  24 

T'u,  plant,  199 
Tuan-mu,    105 
Tu   Ch'in,   107,    142 
Tui,  to  please,   105 
Tui-ts'e,  memorial,  141  f.,  236 
Tui-wen,  literary  form,  73 
Tu   K'uei,   42 

Tung  Chung-shu,  xvii,  142,  252 
Tung-fang  So  (Tung-fang  Man-ch'ien),  47, 

56,  260;  admonishment  to  his  son,  115; 

enigmas,  82;  faults,  80;   "K'e-nan,"  74; 

letter,    145 
Tung  Hsien,   133,   265 
Tung  Hu,  94 
Tung-kuan,   academy,    89 
T'ung-pien,    flexible    adaptability,    165 
Tung-p'ing   (Ts'ang),  prince,  98,  238 
Tung  Tso,  58ft 
Tung-yeh  Chi,  horseman,  221 
T'u-shan,  39 
Tu  Tu,   253;   elegies,   65;   faults,   264;   lei, 

237;   lien-chit,   76;    lowly   station,   265 
Tzu,  philosophical  work,  95 
Tz'u,  form  of  poetry,  4;  and  fit,  177;  and 


hsiin,  5;  judgments  or  oracular  state- 
ment, 12/2,  20;  and  pi,  197;  viva  voce, 
148,   152;   writer  of,  48 

Tz'u,  language,  4 

Tz'u,  to   pierce,    148,    151 

Tzu-an    (Wang  Kung-sui),   48 

Tzu-ch'an  of  Cheng,   14,   145,   152 

Tzu-cheng  (Liu  Hsiang),  editor  of  the 
Classics,  44,  96,  237;  on  fu,  46;  "Hsin- 
hsii,"  253;  Shuo-yiian,  99;  style,  160; 
tsou  and  i,  254 

Tzu-chia  of  Cheng,  145 

Tzu-chien,    see    Ch'en    Ssu 

Tzu-ch'uan  (Kuo-ch'iao),  251 

Tzu-fan,    145 

Tzu-hsia,  xviii,   18,  33 

Tzu-huan  (Ts'ao  Pe'i),  see  Wen,  Wei  em- 
peror 

Tzu-hung,   chi   to,    89 

Tzu-kao,   50,  78/2 

Tzu  Kung,  13/2,   129  f. 

Tzu-shu    (Han-tan  Ch'un),   124,   239,   255 

Tzu-shu  Ching-shu,   145 

Tzu-shun,  5072 

Tzu-t'ai-shu,   251 

Tz'u   writers,  poetry,   247 

Tzu-yiian,  see  Wang  Pao 

Tzu-yun,  see  Yang  Hsiung 

Unicorn,    Confucius    and,    143/2,     193;    as 

omen,   143/2;   symbol,  85 
Universe,  legislation  for,   12 
Unnamable,   the,    10222 

Vacancy  and  tranquility,   155 

Vastness,  as  theme,  168 

Virtue(s),    influence    of,    122;    inner,    127; 

and    literary    excellence,    130;    man    of, 

100;   ming  and,  59;  nine,  40 
Vitality,  physical,  literary  composition  and, 

160,    162  f.,    172,    222  ff.;    manifestation 

of,  184 
Voice,  human,  182 

Walled   terrace,  pei,  66 

Wang  Chi,  62,   131,   180 

Wang  Ch'ung  (Chung-jen),  xxii,  156, 
238;  on  characters,  208/2;  Laotzu  f{'ao-iy 
9572;  Lun-heng,  103;  on  nourishing 
vitality,  222;  progressive  theory  of  his- 
tory, xxx;  writing  methods,  22^ 

Wang   family,    243 


296 


Index 


Wang  Fu,  99 
Wang  I,  27,  253  f. 
Wang  Kung-sui,  see  Tzu-an 
Wang  Lang,  62,  132,  254 
Wang  Mang,   119 

Wang  Pao,   47,   48,   237;   bond   for  slave, 
150  f.;  rhetoric,  252;  "Tung-hsiao,"  197 
Wang  Pi,  see  Fu-ssu 
Wang  Shou-chih,  historian,  90 
Wang-sun,  Ch'iao-hsin  (The  artistic  mind), 

3 

Wang  Tao,  67 

Wang  Ts'an,  see  Chung-hsiian 

Wang  Wan,  memorial,  130  f. 

Wang  Yen,  see  I-fu 

Wang  Yen-shou,  4772,  48 

Wang  Yung,  see  Yiian-ch'ang 

War,  proclamation  of,  116  ff. 

Warning(s),  astrological,  13272;  royal,  no, 
114;  writing  of,  62 

Warring  States  period,  99;  embellishment, 
222;  great  men  of,  96;  literary  works, 
29  f.,  62,  95,  251;  proclamations  of 
war,  117  f.;  shu,  146;  Vertical  Alliance 
and    Horizontal    Confederacy,    86,    105, 

235 

Way  of  Heaven,  doctrine,  16,  230 

Weapons,  inscribed,  61 

Wei,  king  of  Ch'i,  79,  82 

Wei,  particle,  189 

Wei  Ao,  laws,  250 

Wei-ch'ang  (Hsu  Kan),  35,  239,  266;  fu, 
48,   255;   laments,   69;   vitality,  163 

Wei  Chiang,  of  Chin,  62 

Wei  dynasty,  xxv,  41  f.,  89,  132;  letter 
writing,  146;  piao  and  chang,  128;  phil- 
ological studies,  210;  poetry,  166  f.;  tri- 
pod, 60;  writers,  192;  Yuan-feng  pe- 
riod, 258 

Weights  and  measures,  20972 

Wei   Hsiao,    119 

Wei  Hung,  xviii;  "Preface"  of  Boo\  of 
Poetry  ascribed  to,  xi 

Wei  K'ai,  113 

Wei   K'o,    60 

Wei  Liao,  99 

Wei-liieh,   89 

Wei  Meng,  33 

Wei  Mou,  98 

Wei  Tan,  264 

Wei-wen,  see  Wen,  Wei  emperor 

Wei-wu,  see  Wu,  Wei  emperor 


Wen,  Ch'i  emperor,  244 

Wen,  Chin  emperor,   240 

Wen,  Han  emperor,  in,  12372;  hsien-li- 
ang,  141;  "Ssu-shih,"  41 

Wen  (Ts'ao  P'ei),  Wei  emperor,  35,  20772, 
254,  255;  conception  of  ch'i,  xviii,  xxvi, 
xlii;  edicts,  113;  elegy  for,  65;  essay  on 
literature,  147;  Hsien's  abdication  in 
favor  of,  1 1372;  inscribed  weapons,  61; 
jokes,  80;  re  literary  critics,  260;  riddles, 
82;  Shu-tien,  5;  style,  254;  substitutions 
for  coin,  13972;  Tien-lun  lun-wen,  xxv, 
255;  tz'u  and  fu,  239;  usurper,  7272;  on 
vitality  of  style,  163;  on  writers,  264; 
on  writing  and  music,  231;  ytieh-fu,  254 

Wen  (Ch'ang),  king  of  Chou,  95;  "Chou- 
nan"  lyrics,  234;  on  hexagrams,  202; 
oracular  judgments,  n;  and  the  "Red 
Book,"  23;  songs  honoring,  65 

Wen,  duke  of  Chin,  refusal  of  appoint- 
ment, 128 

Wen,  to  inquire,  77;  pure  literature,  xxiv; 
rhymed  writings,  6,  8,  229 

Wen-chang,  literary  pattern,  xl,  4,  174 

Wen  Ch'iao,  royal  secretary,  67,  113  f.,  241; 
chen,   62;   memorial,   132,  257 

Wen-chii,  see  K'ung  Yung 

Wen-hsiian,  19772,  198/2 

Wen  Shu,  memorial,  131 

Wen  T'ai-chen,  see  Wen  Ch'iao 

Wentzu,    14,   99 

Wheelwright,  xvii,  xxvi,  xlii,  155,  158 

White,  color,  33,  52,  54,  178 

Wind,  40;  or  breath,  in  literary  work, 
162  ff. 

"Wind  and  Bone,"  xli 

Wo,  to  hold,  218 

Wo-jo,   descriptive   term,    247 

Women,  involvement  in  a  family  crime, 
139;  as  rulers,  88 

Wondrous,  the,  37 

Words,  choice  of,  105,  180,  208  ff.,  218, 
230,  248;  emphasis  on,  in  shu,  144;  order 
of,   173,   186;  paired,   191 

"Worm-carving,  art  of,"  49 

Worms,  five,  98;  nibbling  on  leaves,  23 

Writers,  criticism   of   and  by,   258  ff.,   264 

Writing,  art  of,  226,  229  ff.;  emergence 
of,  10;  preparation  for,  xxvii;  see  also 
Literary  composition 

Writing  from  the  River  Lo  (Lo-shu),  10, 
12,  22 


Index 


297 


Wu,  Chin  emperor,  114,  240  f. 

Wu,  Han  emperor,  xvii,  8472;  bureau  for 
collecting  songs,  39/2;  Chang's  memorial, 
228;  elegy  for,  217;  encouragement  of 
learning,  236;  hunting  party,  200;  "Lai- 
ch'ih,"  44;  letters,  111;  lexicon,  209; 
poetry  of,  34;  sacrifices,  69,  123;  and 
Sao,  26;  selection  of  scholars,  141;  re 
Ssu-ma  Hsiang-ju,  259;  Yiieh-ju  estab- 
lished,  41 

Wu,  emperor  of  Liang,  xxxiv 

Wu  (Ts'ao  Ts'ao),  Wei  emperor,  xxv,  72/2, 
21772,  239,  240;  re  hen,  88;  hsi  against, 
119;  honored,  113/2;  Mandate  of  Heaven, 
2472;  on  Master  Chang,  205;  memorials 
of  refusal,  128;  oath,  12072;  revolution 
against  Shang  dynasty,  7272;  on  rhyme 
schemes,  188;  tiao  to,  72;  on  use  of  hsi, 
189;  on  warnings,  114 

Wu,  king  of  the  Chou,  59,  88 

Wu,  prince,  warned  by  Tsou  Yang,  107 

Wu,  kingdom,  10372 

Wu,  state,  sword  casting,   192 

Wu,   nothingness,    10272 

Wu-chen,    145 

Wu  Ch'i,  265 

Wu-ch'iu   Shou-wang,   13872,  236 

Wu  Chii,  81 

Wu-chung,  see  Fu  I 

Wu  Han,  65 

Wu  Hsien,  52 

Wu  Kuang,  3372 

Wu-ling,  king  of  Chao,  60,  137 

Wu-lu,  89 

Wn-ming,  inscriptions,  61 

Wu-tien,    17 

Wu-ting,  see  Kao-tsung 

"Wu-ts'ai,"   definitions,   26672 

Wu-tzu,  five  persons,  3372 

Wu  Tzu-hsii,  29 

Ya,  literary  form,  xxxvi,  xliii,  26,  50,  176  f.; 

commentary   on,   53;   music   of,   xv,   40; 

style  of,  xli,  159;  and  sung,  29,  33,  235; 

words  in,  218;  see  also  Feng 
"Ya,"  see  under  Boo\  of  Poetry 
Yang,  Fa-yen,   20  f. 
Yang,  line,  20272;  principle,  972,  1572,  135, 

142,   149,   245 
Yang-ch'i,   theory  of,   xiii  f. 
Yang-ch'iu,  89 
Yang  Hsiu,  see  Te-tsu 


Yang  Hsiung  (Tzu-yiin),  30,  47,  156,  167; 
character,  267;  chen,  62;  re  ch'i,  76  f.; 
"Chiao-lieh,"  168;  "Chieh-ch'ao,"  74; 
"Chii-ch'in,"  124;  "Ch'ung-kuo"  sung, 
52;  classicism,  xx  ff.,  205;  criticism  of, 
210;  elegy  for  Empress  Yuan,  64;  faults, 
264;  Fa-yen,  xxi,  99,  25272;  on  fu,  xviii, 
xxx,  49,  237;  "Kan-ch'uan  fu,"  48,  200; 
language  and  ideas,  252;  learning,  204; 
lien-chu,  74;  on  the  Li-sao,  27;  literary 
taste,  263;  metaphors,  197;  "Pai-kuan 
chen,"  204;  parallelism,  191;  philology, 
210;  reply  to  Liu  Hsin,  145;  re  Ssu-ma 
Hsiang-ju,  252;  style,  160;  sung,  51; 
T'ai-hsiian,  xx  f.,  26072;  tiao,  72;  on 
words  and  shu,  144;   "Yii-lieh  fu,"  200 

Yang  Hu,  minister  of  Lu,  129,  219 

Yang  Ping,  131 

Yang  Ssu,  239 

Yang  Tz'u,  67 

Yang  Yiin,  145 

Yao,  legendary  sage-king,  28,  32,  86,  112, 
233  f.;  advice  of  four  chiefs,  137;  and 
the  "Green  Dragon,"  23 

Yao,  state,  see  T'ang 

Yao,  folk  song,  77 

Yao-yao,  buzzing,  246 

Yarrow  stalks,  772 

Year,  first  month,  84 

Yeast,  enigma  re,  81 

Yeh,  a  leaf,  151;  particle,  189 

Yeh-lao,  96 

Yellow,  color,  52 

Yellow  Emperor  (Hsuan-yiian),  24,  41,  84 
inscription,  59,  122;  malediction,  56 
military  songs,  44;  practice  of  i,  137 
"Tuan-chu,"  166,  188;  use  of  charac- 
ters,   208;    and    "yun-men,"    32 

Yellow  River  Map   (Ho-t'u),   10,  12,  22 

Yen,   10 

Yen,  state,   71 

Yen,  condolences,  152 

Yen,   plain   words,   229:   to   speak,    105/; 

Y^77,  proverb,  79/;,   148,  152 

Yen  An,   236 

Yen   Chi,   34 

Yen-chih,  see  Yen  Yen-nien 

Yen  family,  243 

Yen-ho,  see  Liu   Hsieh 

Yen-jan,  mount,   60 

Yen-po,  see  Yuan  Hung 


298 


Index 


Yen-shan,  mount,  66 

Yen-shou,  254 

Yen  Tsu,  112 

Yen  Yen-nien  (Yen-chih),  230 

Yen  Ying,  99 

Yen    Yu,    "San-chiang-chun    lun,"    102 

Yin,  see  Shang 

Yin,  character,  213 

Yin,  enigma,  80  f. 

Yin,  feminine  or  broken  line  in  a  hexa- 
gram, 20277;  principle,  15B,  135,  142, 
149,  245 

Yin,  prelude,  77,  101 

Yin,  sad  chanting,  77 

Yin  Cheng,  39  f. 

Yin  Chung-wen,  "Ku-hsing,"  242,  257 

Yin  dynasty,  praises  of  T'ang,  65 

"Ying,"  music,  39 

Ying  Chen,  see  Chi-fu 

Ying  Chii,  see  Hsiu-lien 

Ying   Shao    (Chang-Yuan),    139,   220 

Ying  Yang  (Te-lien),  35/2,  80,  239;  schol- 
arship, 255;    Wen-Inn,  5 

Yin-hsiu,  214  ff. 

Yin  Ming,   24 

Yin  Wen,  96,  99 

Yu,  king,  234 

Yii,  great,  of  the  Hsia  dynasty,  28;  on 
chieh,  H4f.;  inscriptions,  59;  songs  re, 
32  f.,   234 

Yii,  corner,   149 

Yu,  elm,   18572 

Yii,  musical   note,   182,   185 

Yii,  particle,  189 

Yii    (Shun)   dynasty,   no,   in 

Yuan,  emperor  of  Eastern  Chin,  129;  and 
state  examinations,  241 

Yuan,  Han  emperor,  237 

Yuan,  empress,   64,   88 


Yuan-ch'ang   (Wang-Yung),   213  f.,  265 

Yuan  Chi,  36 

Yuan  family,  243 

Yuan  Hung,  37,  48,  242,  257 

Yuan  Shan-sung,  89 

Yuan  Shao,   119 

Yuan-yii,  see  Juan  Yii 

Yuan-yu,  30 

Yu-chen,  62 

Yu  Chih-kung  (Yu  I),  115 

Yii  dynasty,  250;  "Ch'ing-yiin,"  166;  de- 
velopment of  writing,  n;  four-word 
line,   188;   Mu,   84;   parallelism,   190 

Yueh,  and  Hu,  228 

Yueh,   state,   56 

Yueh,  and  li,  xv 

Yueh,  to  please,  105 

Yiieh-fu,  musical  poetry,  xxxvi  f.,  39,  41, 
44«;  song-collecting  office,  41 

Yueh  I,  reply  to  king  of  Yen,  251 

Yueh  Sung,  239 

Yueh  Yii,  207 

Yii-fu,  30 

Yii  Hsiung,   Yiitzu,  95 

Yii  I,  see  Yii  Chih-kung 

Yii   K'ai,    "K'e-tzu,"    74  f. 

Yii  Liang  (Yii  Yiian-kuei),  67,  241,  267; 
memorials,  129,  257 

Yiin,  rhyme,   184 

Yung,  song,  77 

Yung-ming  ti,  xxxii 

Yii-shih  of  the  Ch'in,  132 

Yii-shun,  worship  of,  52 

Yii  Sung  of  the  Wei,  39,  228 

"Yu-tien,"   122 

Yii  Yiian-kuei,  see  Yii  Liang 

Yu-yii,   legendary   ruler,   see   Shun 

Yu-yii  (tribe),  daughters  of,  27/2 


Pate  Due 

••••©lie-  ,. 

..  Returned 

Due 

Returned 

APR  14  13 

J8  JM  *&1flOA 

w  ^Km  *w  JJP 

W  17  1 

WW    *"  • 

\ 

, 

%               t                1 

4 

T 

3    1262   04042   5919 


