;y  of  Call 
3rn  Regio 
try  Facili 


The   Library 

of 

Literary   History 


cf  3fit*mg 


1.  A   LITERARY   HISTORY    OF   INDIA.      By  R.   W. 

FRAZER,  LL.B. 

2.  A     LITERARY     HISTORY     OF     IRELAND.       By 

DOUGLAS  HYDE,  LL.D. 

3.  A     LITERARY     HISTORY      OF     AMERICA.       By 

BARRETT  WENDELL. 

4.  A  LITERARY  HISTORY    OF    PERSIA.     From  the 

Earliest   Times   until    Firdawsi.     By    EDWARD    G. 
BROWNE,  M.A. 

5.  A  LITERARY   HISTORY  OF    SCOTLAND.      By  J. 

H.  MILLAR,  LL.B. 

6.  A     LITERARY     HISTORY     OF     PERSIA.      From 

Firdawsi  until  Sa'di.    By  EDWARD  G.  BROWNE,  M.A. 

7.  A  LITERARY   HISTORY  OF  FRANCE.    By  EMILE 

FAGUET. 

8.  A    LITERARY    HISTORY    OF  THE   ARABS.      By 

REYNOLD  A.  NICHOLSON,  M.A. 

9.  A    LITERARY    HISTORY     OF     RUSSIA.      By    A. 

BR(JCKNER. 

10.  A    LITERARY     HISTORY    OF      ROME.       By    J. 

WIGHT  DUFF,  M.A. 

Other  Volumes  in  Preparation. 

A  LITERARY   HISTORY  OF  THE  JEWS.      By  ISRAEL 
ABRAHAMS,  M.A. 

A    LITERARY     HISTORY    OF    ITALY.      By    EDMUND 
G.  GARDNER. 

ETC.  ETC.  ETC. 


THE 

OF 
LITER  ART  HISTOXr 


A   Literary   History  of  Persia 

From  the   "Earliest  Times  until  Firdawsi 


A   Literary   History 
of  Persia 

From  the  Earliest  Times  until  Firdawsi 


: 

&W0  OWEN  MWAS1A& 


M    B 


-s»or  of  Arabic,  Fellow  of  Po 
.  and  tometime  Lecturer  in  Pfrgian  in  the 
University  of  Cambridge 


3d  ol  bi£«  .gniJI  (nfiinKesB)  "^ 
cmbom   £   nwnl    ;  anialwKri-B  anios  ,(\sd-o^ 
r.H  bKmrnr.riul/'.  yd  ^nilnifi 


T.    Fisher    Utiwin    Ltd: 
ielphi  Terrace 


>e  Knusraw  Parwiz 
Jiagir  called  Ta'us 


A  Literary  History 
of  Persia 

From  the  Earliest  Times  until  Firdawsi 


CAM  OWEN 


Edward     G.     Browne,     M.A.,     M.B 

Sir  Thomas  Adams'  Professor  of  Arabic,  Fellow  of  Pembroke 

College,  and  sometime  Lecturer  in  Persian  in  the 

University  of  Cambridge 


London 
T.    Fisher    Unwin    Ltd: 

Adelphi  Terrace 


First  Edition  .  1908 
Reprinted  .  .  1909 
Reprinted  . 


Stack 
Annex 

Pt 


Preface 


FOR  many  years  I  had  cherished  a  desire  to  write  a  history  of 
the  intellectual  and  literary  achievements  of  the  Persians, 
somewhat  on  the  lines  of  that  most  admirable  work,  Green's 
Short  History  of  the  English  People,  a  work  which  any  writer 
may  be  proud  to  adopt  as  a  model,  but  which  few  can  hope  to 
rival  and  none  to  surpass.  Considering  the  immense  number 
of  books  which  have  been  written  about  Persia,  it  is  strange 
that  so  few  attempts  should  hitherto  have  been  made  to  set 
forth  in  a  comprehensive  yet  comparatively  concise  and  sum- 
mary form  the  history  of  that  ancient  and  most  interesting 
kingdom.  Excellent  monographs  on  particular  periods  and 
dynasties  do  indeed  exist  in  plenty  ;  but  of  general  histories  of 
Persia  those  of  Sir  John  Malcolm  and  Clements  Markham  are 
still  the  chief  works  of  reference  in  English,  though  they  no 
longer  represent,  even  approximately,  the  present  level  of 
knowledge  (enormously  raised  in  recent  times  by  the  unremit- 
ting labours  of  an  ever-increasing  band  of  students  and 
scholars),  in  addition  to  which  they  both  deal  rather  with  the 
external  political  conditions  of  Persia  than  with  the  inner  life 
of  her  people. 

Conscious  of  the  magnitude  and  difficulty  of  the  task,  and 
constantly  engaged  in  examining  and  digesting  the  abundant 
and  almost  unexplored  materials  which  every  large  collection 
of  Oriental  manuscripts  yields,  I  might  probably  have  con- 
tinued to  postpone  indefinitely  an  attempt  for  which  I  felt 

Ttt 


viii  PREFACE 

myself  ever  more  rather  than  less  unprepared,  had  I  not 
received  almost  simultaneously  two  separate  invitations  to 
contribute  a  volume  on  Persian  Literature  or  Literary  History 
to  a  series  which  in  each  case  was  of  conspicuous  merit, 
though  in  plan,  scope,  and  treatment  the  difference  between 
the  two  was  considerable.  In  choosing  between  the  two,  I 
was  less  influenced  by  priority  of  appeal,  extent  of  remunera- 
tion, or  personal  predilection,  than  by  the  desire  to  secure  for 
myself  the  ampler  field  and  the  broader — I  had  almost  said  the 
more  philosophical — plan.  The  model  placed  before  me  in 
the  one  case  was  Jusserand's  charming  Literary  History  of  the 
English  People,  the  conception  and  execution  of  which  (for 
reasons  more  fully  explained  in  the  Introductory  chapter  of 
the  following  work)  so  delighted  me  that  I  thereupon  decided 
to  make  for  the  series  to  which  it  belonged  the  effort  which  I 
had  long  contemplated.  For  it  was  the  intellectual  history  ot 
the  Persians  which  I  desired  to  write,  and  not  merely  the 
history  of  the  poets  and  authors  who  expressed  their  thoughts 
through  the  medium  of  the  Persian  language  ;  the  manifesta- 
tions of  the  national  genius  in  the  fields  of  Religion, 
Philosophy,  and  Science  interested  me  at  least  as  much  as 
those  belonging  to  the  domain  of  Literature  in  the  narrower 
sense  ;  while  the  linguistic  vehicle  through  which  they  sought 
expression  was,  from  my  point  of  view,  indifferent.  I  trust 
that  my  readers  will  realise  this  at  the  outset,  so  that  they  may 
not  suffer  disappointment,  nor  feel  themselves  aggrieved, 
because  in  this  volume  more  is  said  about  movements  than 
books,  and  less  about  books  written  in  Persian  than  about  those 
written  in  Pahlawi,  Arabic,  or  some  other  language. 

It  was  originally  intended  that  the  work  should  be  com- 
pleted in  one  volume,  carrying  the  history  down  to  the 
present  day.  But  I  soon  convinced  myself  (and,  with  more 
difficulty,  my  publisher)  that  this  was  impossible  without 
grave  modification  (and,  from  my  point  of  view,  mutilation) 
of  my  original  plan.  At  first  I  hoped  to  carry  this  volume 


PREFACE  ix 

down  to  the  Mongol  Invasion  and  the  extinction  of  the  Cali- 
phate of  Baghdad  in  the  thirteenth  century,  which,  as  I  have 
elsewhere  observed  (pp.  210-211  infra\  is  the  great  turning- 
point  in  the  history  of  Islam  ;  but  even  this  finally  proved 
impracticable  within  the  limits  assigned  to  me,  and  I  ulti- 
mately found  myself  obliged  to  conclude  this  part  of  my  work 
with  the  immediate  precursors  of  Firdawsi,  the  writers  and 
poets  of  the  Samanid  and  Buwayhid  dynasties. 

This  division  is,  perhaps,  after  all  the  best,  since  the 
Prolegomena  with  which  the  student  of  Persian  literature 
ought  to  be  acquainted  are  thus  comprised  in  the  present 
volume,  while  the  field  of  Persian  literature  in  the  narrower 
sense  will,  with  the  aid  of  one  chapter  of  recapitulation,  be 
entirely  covered  by  the  second,  with  which  it  is  intended  that 
this  should  be  supplemented.  Thus,  agreeably  to  the  stipula- 
tions imposed  by  my  publisher,  the  two  volumes  will  be 
independent  one  of  the  other,  this  containing  the  Prolegomena, 
and  that  the  History  of  Persian  Literature  within  the  strict 
meaning  of  the  term. 

My  chief  fear  is  lest,  in  endeavouring  to  present  to  the 
general  reader  the  results  attained  by  Oriental  scholarship,  and 
embodied  for  the  most  part  in  books  and  periodicals  which  he 
is  unlikely  to  read,  or  even  to  meet  with,  I  may  have  fallen,, 
so  to  speak,  between  two  stools,  and  ended  by  producing  a 
book  which  is  too  technical  for  the  ordinary  reader,  yet  too 
popular  for  the  Orientalist  by  profession.  To  the  former 
rather  than  the  latter  it  is  addressed  ;  but  most  of  all  to  that 
small  but  growing  body  of  amateurs  who,  having  learned  to 
love  the  Persian  poets  in  translation,  desire  to  know  more  of 
the  language,  literature,  history,  and  thought  of  one  of  the 
most  ancient,  gifted,  and  original  peoples  in  the  world.  In  a 
country  which  offers  so  few  inducements  as  England  to  what 
may  be  called  the  professional  study  of  Oriental  letters  and 
languages,  and  which  consequently  lacks  well-organised 
Oriental  schools  such  as  exist  at  Paris,  Berlin,  St.  Petersburg, 


x  PREFACE 

and  other  Continental  capitals,  it  is  chiefly  with  the  amateur 
(and  I  use  the  word  in  no  disparaging  sense,  but  as  meaning 
one  whose  studies  are  prompted  by  taste  and  natural  inclina- 
tion rather  than  by  necessity)  that  the  future  extension  and 
development  of  these  studies  lies.  To  him  (or  her),  therefore, 
this  book  is  especially  addressed  ;  and  should  it  prove  of  use  to 
any  of  those  whose  interest  in  the  East  is  more  real  and 
abiding  than  that  of  the  ordinary  reader,  but  who  have  neither 
the  opportunity  nor  the  apparatus  of  study  necessary  to  the 
professional  student,  I  shall  deem  myself  amply  rewarded  for 
my  labour  in  compiling  it. 

Concerning  the  system  of  transliteration  of  Oriental  names 
and  words  here  adopted  little  need  be  said  ;  it  is  essentially 
that  approved  by  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  the  transcrip- 
tion of  the  Arabic  character,  and  will  be  readily  understood  by 
all  who  are  familiar  with  that  script.  That  consistency  (or,  as 
I  fear  may  be  said  by  some  of  my  critics,  pedantry)  has  com- 
pelled me  to  write  Hafidh,  Nidhami,  'Umar,  Firdawsi,  &c., 
for  the  more  popular  Hafiz,  Nizami,  Omar,  and  Ferdousi  may 
be  regretted  from  some  points  of  view,  but  will  at  least 
generally  save  the  student  from  doubts  as  to  the  correct  spell- 
ing in  the  original  character  of  the  names  occurring  in  the 
following  pages.  I  only  regret  that  this  consistency  has  not 
been  more  complete,  and  that  I  have  in  a  few  cases  (notably 
Adharbayjan,  Azarbayjan)  allowed  myself  to  be  swayed  by 
actual  usage  at  the  expense  of  uniformity.  But  at  least  the 
reader  will  not  as  a  rule  be  puzzled  by  finding  the  same 
name  appearing  now  as  'Uthman,  now  as  4Usman,  and  again 
as  'Osman,  according  as  it  is  sought  to  represent  its  Arabic, 
its  Persian,  or  its  Turkish  pronunciation. 

And  so  I  commend  my  book  to  the  benevolent  reader,  and, 
I  hope  I  may  add,  to  the  not  less  benevolent  critic.  Of  its 
many  defects,  alike  in  plan  and  execution,  I  am  fully  con- 
scious, and  to  others,  no  doubt,  my  attention  will  soon  be 
called.  But  "whoso  desireth  a  faultless  friend  remains  friend- 


PREFACE  xl 

7«f,"  says  a  well-known  Eastern  adage,  and  it  is  no  less  true 
that  he  who  would  write  a  flawless  book  writes  nothing.  I 
have  admitted  that  I  felt  myself  unprepared  for  so  great  a 
task  ;  but  I  should  have  felt  equally  unprepared  ten  or  twenty 
years  hence,  the  subject  ever  widening  before  our  eyes  more 
rapidly  than  the  knowledge  of  it  grows  in  our  minds.  Even 
the  most  imperfect  book,  if  it  breaks  fresh  ground,  may, 
though  itself  doomed  to  oblivion,  prepare  the  way  for  a 
better. 

EDWARD  G.  BROWNE. 
SEPTEMBER   14,   1902. 


Contents 


MM 

PREFACE  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   vii 

BOOK    I 

ON   THE  ORIGINS  AND  GENERAL  HISTORY  OF    THE  PEOPLE, 
LANGUAGES,  AND  LITERATURES  OF  PERSIA 

CHAPTER  PACK 

I.  INTRODUCTORY      ......       3 

II.  THE  DISCOVERY  AND   INTERPRETATION  OF  THE  IN- 

SCRIPTIONS AND  DOCUMENTS  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA, 
WITH  OTHER  PHILOLOGICAL  MATTER         .  .      39 

III.  THE  PRE-MUHAMMADAN  LITERATURE  OF  THE  PERSIANS, 
WITH  SOME  ACCOUNT  OF  THEIR  LEGENDARY  HlS- 
TORY,  AS  SET  FORTH  IN  THE  BOOK  OF  THE  KlNGS  88 


BOOK   II 

ON  THE  HISTORY  OF  PERSIA  FROM  THE  RISE  OF 
THE  SASANIAN  TO  THE  FALL  OF  THE  UMAY- 
YAD  DYNASTY  (A.D.  226-750.) 

IV.  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD  (A.D.  226-652)   .  .  .    127 

V.  THE  ARAB  INVASION        .  .  .    185 

VI.  THE  UMAYYAD  PERIOD  (A.D.  661-749)  •          •          •    209 

Jdil 


xiv  CONTENTS 


BOOK   III 

ON   THE  EARLY  'ABBASID  PERIOD,  OR  GOLDEN 
AGE  OF  ISLAM 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

VII.  GENERAL  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF 
ISLAM  (A.D.  749-847)  FROM  THE  ACCESSION  OF 
AS-SAFFAH  TO  THE  DEATH  OF  AL-WATHIQ  .  .  251 

VIII.    THE  DEVELOPMENTS  OF  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

IN  THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF  ISLAM       .  .  .    279 

IX.     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS  OF  THIS  PERIOD  .    308 


BOOK    IV 

ON  THE  FIRST  PERIOD  OF  THE  DECLINE  OF  THE 
CALIPHATE,  FROM  THE  ACCESSION  OF  AL- 
MUTAWAKK1L  TO  THE  ACCESSION  OF  SULTAN 
MAHMUD  OF  GHAZNA 

(A.D.   850-1000) 

X.  THE  GENERAL    PHENOMENA  OF  THE  FIRST  PERIOD 

OF  THE  DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE  (A.D.  847- 
ICOO),  FROM  THE  ACCESSION  OF  AL-MUTAWAKKIL 
TO  THE  ACCESSION  OF  MAHMUD  OF  GHAZNA  .  339 

XI.  THE   STATE  OF  MUSLIM   LITERATURE  AND  SCIENCE 

AT  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  GHAZNAWI  PERIOD  .    377 

XII.  RELIGIOUS  MOVEMENTS  OF  THIS  PERIOD         .          .    391 

I.  The  Isma'ilis  and  Carmathians,  or  the  "  Sect  of 
the  Seven" 

XIII.  RELIGIOUS  MOVEMENTS  OF  THIS  PERIOD         .          .    416 

II.  The  Sufi  Mysticism 

XIV.  THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA  DURING  THIS  PERIOD  .    445 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 481 

INDEX        .  . 497 


BOOK   I 

ON  THE  ORIGINS  AND   GENERAL  HISTORY 

OF    THE    PEOPLE,  LANGUAGES,  AND 

LITERATURES    OF  PERSIA 


CHAPTER  I 

INTRODUCTORY 

THIS  book,  as  its  title  implies,  is  a  history,  not  of  the  different 

dynasties  which  have  ruled  in   Persia  and  of  the  kings  who 

composed    those    dynasties,    but   of    the    Persian 

Scope  of  work.  .  . 

people.  It  is,  moreover,  the  history  of  that 
people  written  from  a  particular  point  of  view — the  literary. 
In  other  words,  it  is  an  attempt  to  portray  the  subjective — 
that  is  to  say,  the  religious,  intellectual,  and  aesthetic — 
characteristics  of  the  Persians  as  manifested  in  their  own 
writings,  or  sometimes,  when  these  fail,  in  those  of  their 
neighbours.  It  is  not,  however,  precisely  a  history  of  Persian 
Literature  ;  since,  on  the  one  hand,  it  will  exclude  from  con- 
sideration the  writings  of  those  who,  while  using  the  Persian 
language  as  the  vehicle  of  their  thought,  were  not  of  Persian 
race ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  it  will  include  what  has  been 
written  by  Persians  who  chose  as  their  medium  of  expression 
some  language  other  than  their  mother-tongue.*.  India,  for 
example,  has  produced  an  extensive  literature  of  which  the 
language  is  Persian,  but  which  is  not  a  reflex  of  the  Persian 
mind,  and  the  same  holds  good  in  lesser  degree  of  several 
branches  of  the  Turkish  race,  but  with  this  literature  we  are 
in  no  wise  concerned.  Persians,  on  the  other  hand,  have 
continued  ever  since  the  Muhammadan  Conquest — that  is  to 
say,  for  more  than  twelve  hundred  years — to  use  the  Arabic 

3 


4  INTRODUCTORY 

language  almost  to  the  exclusion  of  their  own  in  writing  on 
certain  subjects,  notably  theology  and  philosophy  ;  while  during 
the  two  centuries  immediately  succeeding  the  Arab  invasion 
the  language  of  the  conquerors  was,  save  amongst  those  who 
still  adhered  to  the  ancient  national  faith  of  Zoroaster,  almost 
the  sole  literary  medium  employed  in  Persia.  To  ignore  this 
literature  would  be  to  ignore  many  of  the  most  important  and 
characteristic  manifestations  of  the  Persian  genius,  and  to  form 
an  altogether  inadequate  judgment  of  the  intellectual  activity 
of  that  ingenious  and  talented  people. 

The  term  "  Persian  "  as  used  by  us,  and  by  the  Greeks, 
Jews,  Syrians,  Arabs,  and  other  foreigners,  has  a  wider  sig- 
nification   than    that    which    it    originally    bore. 
'uTm'plrsia*'   The    Persians    call    themselves    Irani  and    their 
land  Ir&nJ  and  of  this  land  Pdrsa,  the  Persis  of 
the  Greeks,  the  modern  Fdrsf  is  one  province  out  of  several. 
But  because  that  province  gave  birth  to  the  two  great  dynasties 
(the  Achaemenian  in  the  sixth  century  before,  and  the  Sasanian 

1  Iran,  Erdn,  Air  an,  the  Airiyana  of  the  Ayesta,  is  the  land  of  the 
Aryans  (Ariya,  Airiya  of  the  Avesta,  Sanskrit  Arya),  and  had  therefore 
a  wider  signification  than  the  term  Persia,  which  is  equivalent  to  Iran 
in  the  modern  sense,  has  now.    Bactria  (Balkh),  Sogdiana  (Sughd),  and 
Khwarazm  were  Iranian  lands,  and  the  Afghans  and  Kurds  are  Iranian 
peoples. 

2  The  ^>-sound  does  not  exist  in  Arabic,  and  is  replaced  by  /.     Pars, 
Isfahan,  &c.,  are  simply  the  arabicised   forms  of  Pars,  Ispahan.     The 
adjective  Fdrsi  (or  Pdrsi)  denotes  the  official  language  of  Persia  (which  is 
at  the  same  time  the  mother-tongue  of  the  great  majority  of  its  inhabi- 
tants, and  the  national  language  in  as  full  a  sense  as  English  is  the  national 
language  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland),  and  in  this  application  is  equiva- 
lent to  Irani.    As  applied  to  a  man,  however,  Fdrsi  means  a  native  of  the 
province  of  Pars.     In  India  Pdrsi  (Parsee)  means  of  the  Persian  (i.e.,  the 
ancient  Persian,  or  Zoroastrian)  religion,  and  the  term  has  been  re-imported 
in  this  sense  into  Persia.     To  call  the  province  of  Pars  "  Farsistan,"  as  is 
sometimes  done  by  European  writers,  is  quite  incorrect,  for  the  termina- 
tion -istdn  ("  place  of,"  "  land  of ")  is  added  to  the  name  of  a  people  to 
denote  the  country  which  they  inhabit  (e.g.,  Afghanistan,  Baluchistan),  but 
not  to  the  name  of  a  country  or  province. 


THE  OLD  PERSIAN  LANGUAGE  5 

in  the  third  century  after  Christ)  which  made  their  arms  for- 
midable and  their  name  famous  in  the  West,  its  meaning  was 
extended  so  as  to  include  the  whole  people  and  country  which  we 
call  Persian  ;  just  as  the  tribe  of  Angles,  though  numerically 
inferior  to  the  Saxons,  gave  their  name  to  England  and  all 
that  the  term  English  now  connotes.  As  in  our  own  country 
Angles,  Saxons,  and  Jutes  merged  in  one  English  people,  and 
the  dialects  of  Northumbria,  Mercia,  and  Wessex  in  one 
English  language,  so  in  Iran  the  inhabitants  of  Parthia, 
Media,  and  Persis  became  in  course  of  time  blended  in  one 
Persian  people,  and  their  kindred  dialects  (for  already  Strabo 
found  them  in  his  time  "almost  of  the  same  speech," 
6/uo-yAwrroi  irapa  fiiKpov}3  in  one  Persian  tongue. 

The  Persian  language  of  to-day,   Fdrsi,  the   language   of 

Fars,    is    then    the   lineal    offspring   of    the    language   which 

Cyrus    and    Darius    spoke,    and    in    which    the 

The  Persian     proclamations   engraved    by  their  commands   on 

language  of  / 

Achaemeniau     the  rOcks  of  Behistun  (now  called   Bi-situn]  and 

times.  *  / 

Naqsh-i-Rustam,  and  the  walls  and  columns  of 
Persepolis,  are  drawn  up.  These  inscriptions  of  the  Achae- 
menian  kings,  who  ruled  in  Persia  from  B.C.  550  until  the  last 
Darius  was  overthrown  by  Alexander  the  Great,  B.C.  330,  are 
sufficiently  extensive  and  well  understood  to  show  us  what  the 
Persian  language  was  more  than  2,400  years  ago. 

Remote  as  is  the  period  from  which   the  earliest  written 
monuments  of  the  Persian  language  date,  they  do  not,  unfor- 
tunately,  present   an    unbroken    series.     On    the 

Interruptions  in  .  ... 

the  series  of     contrary,  their  continuity  is  broken  between   the 

written  monu-  .  •     j  j      i 

mentsofthePer-  Achaememan  period  and  the  present  day  by  two 

»ian  language.  J       J 

great  gaps  corresponding  with  two  great  foreign 
invasions  which  shattered  the  Persian  power  and  reduced  the 
Persian  people  to  the  position  of  a  subject  race.  The  first  of 
these,  beginning  with  the  Greek  invasion  under  Alexander  and 
ending  with  the  overthrow  of  the  Parthian  by  the  Sasanian 
3  Strabo,  xv,  724. 


6  INTRODUCTORY 

dynasty,  embraces  a  period  of  about  five  centuries  and  a  half 
(B.C.  33O-A.D.  226).  The  second,  beginning  with  the  Arab 
invasion  and  Muhammadan  Conquest,  which  destroyed  the 
Sasanian  dynasty  and  overthrew  the  Zoroastrian  religion, 
though  much  shorter,  had  far  deeper  and  more  permanent 
effects  on  the  people,  thought,  and  language  of  Persia. 
"  Hellenism,"  as  Noldeke  says,  "  never  touched  more  than 
the  surface  of  Persian  life,  but  Iran  was  penetrated  to  the 
core  by  Arabian  religion  and  Arab  ways."  The  Arab  con- 
quest, though  presaged  by  earlier  events,1  may  be  said  to  have 
begun  with  the  battles  of  Buwayb  and  Qadisiyya  (A.D.  635- 
637),  and  to  have  been  completed  and  confirmed  by  the  death 
of  the  last  Sasanian  king,  Yazdigird  III,  A.D.  651  or  652. 
The  end  of  the  Arabian  period  cannot  be  so  definitely  fixed. 
In  a  certain  sense  it  endured  till  the  sack  of  Baghdad  and 
murder  of  al-Mustatsim  bi'llah,  the  last  'Abbasid  Caliph,  in 
A.D.  1258  by  the  Mongols  under  Hulagu  Khan,  the  grandson 
of  Changiz  Khan.  Long  before  this,  however,  the  Arab 
power  had  passed  into  the  hands  of  Persian  and  Turkish 
vassals,  and  the  Caliph,  whom  they  sometimes  cajoled  and 
conciliated,  but  more  often  coerced  or  ignored,  had  ceased  to 
exercise  aught  beyond  a  spiritual  authority  save  in  the  imme- 
diate neighbourhood  of  Baghdad.  Broadly  speaking,  however, 
the  revival  of  the  Persian  language  proceeded  part  passu  with 
the  detachment  of  the  Persian  provinces  from  the  direct 
control  of  the  Caliph's  administration,  and  the  uprising  ot 
local  dynasties  which  yielded  at  most  a  merely  nominal 
obedience  to  the  'Abbasid  court.  Or  these  dynasties  the 
Tahirids  (A.D.  820)  are  sometimes  accounted  the  first ;  but 
they  may  more  truly  be  considered  to  begin  with  the  Saffarids 
(A.D.  867),  Samanids  (A.D.  874),  and  Buwayhids  (A.D.  932), 
and  to  reach  their  full  development  in  the  Ghaznawids  and 
Seljuqs. 

1  Notably  by  the  Battle  of  Dhu  Qar  in  the  reign  of  Khusraw  Parwiz 
(A,D.  604-610). 


PERIODS  OF  THE  PERSIAN  LANGUAGE    7 

The  history  of  the  Persian  language  falls,  therefore,  into 

three  well-defined  periods,  as  follows  : — 

dePvl?mentthof       L  The  Armenian  Period  (B.C.  550-330),  repre- 

t{!!nguagen      sented  by  the  edicts  and  proclamations  contained 

in    the    Persian    cuneiform    inscriptions,   which, 

though  of  considerable  extent,  are  similar  in   character  and 

style,    and    yield    a    vocabulary    of    not    much 

Old  Persian.          J  J 

more  than  400  separate  words.1  I  he  language 
represented  by  these  inscriptions,  and  by  them  only,  is  gene- 
rally called  Old  Persian* 

II.   The  Sasanian    Period  (A.D.   226-652),  represented    by 
inscriptions  on  monuments,  medals,  gems,  seals,  and  coins,  and 

by  a  literature  estimated  as,  roughly  speaking,  equal 
lw!3"'  in  bulk  to  the  Old  Testament.3    This  literature  is 

entirely  Zoroastrian  and  almost  entirely  theological 
and  liturgical.  The  language  in  which  it  is  written,  when 
disentangled  from  the  extraordinary  graphic  system,  known  as 
Huzvaresh  (Zuwarishn),  used  to  represent  it,  is  little  more 
than  a  very  archaic  form  of  the  present  speech  of  Persia  devoid 
of  the  Arabic  element.  It  is  generally  known  as  Pahlawi, 
sometimes  as  Middle  Persian.  Properly  speaking,  the  term 
Pahlawi  applies  rather  to  the  script  than  the  language,  but, 
following  the  general  usage,  we  shall  retain  it  in  speaking  of 
the  official  language  of  Sasanian  Persia.  This  script  continued 

1  Darmesteter,  Etudes  Iraniennes,  vol.  i,  p.  7. 

•  The  best  editions  of  these  inscriptions  are  those  of  Kossowicz  (St. 
Petersburg,  1872)  and  Spiegel  (Leipsic,  1862).  In  the  former  the  texts  are 
given  both  in  the  cuneiform  and  in  the  Roman  character  and  the  transla- 
tion in  Latin.  In  the  latter  the  texts  are  transliterated  and  the  translation 
is  in  German. 

3  West,  "  On  the  Extent,  Language,  and  Age  of  Pahlawi  Literature," 
p.  402  ;  also  the  excellent  account  of  Pahlawi  Literature  by  the  same  writer 
in  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss  der  Iranischen  Philologie,  vol.  ii,  pp. 
75-129.  West  divides  the  Pahlawi  literature  into  translations  of  Avesta 
texts  (141,000  words),  texts  on  religious  subjects  (446,000  words),  and 
texts  on  non-religious  subjects  (41,000  words) :  total,  about  628,000 
words. 


8  INTRODUCTORY 

to  be  used  on  the  coins  of  the  early  Caliphs  and  the  independent 
Spahpats  or  Ispahbadhs  of  Tabaristan  for  more  than  a  century 
after  the  Arab  conquest  ;  and  for  at  least  as  long  additions 
continued  to  be  made  by  the  Zoroastrians  of  Persia  to  the 
Pahlawi  literature,  but  the  latest  of  them  hardly  extend  beyond 
the  ninth  century  of  our  era.1  Practically  speaking  the 
natural  use  of  what  we  understand  as  Pahlawi  ceased  about 
a  thousand  years  ago. 

III.   The  Muhammadan  Period  (from  about  A.D.  900  until 
the  present  day).     When  we  talk  of  "  Modern  Persian,"  we 

mean  simply  the  Persian  language  as  it  reappears 
Modp£s?anNe°'  after  the  Arab  Conquest,  and  after  the  adoption 

of  the  Muhammadan  religion  by  the  vast  majority 
of  the  inhabitants  of  Persia.  The  difference  between  late 
Pahlawi  and  the  earliest  form  of  Modern  Persian  was,  save 
for  the  Arabic  element  generally  contained  in  the  latter, 
merely  a  difference  of  script,  and  script  in  this  case  was,  at 
this  transition  period  (the  ninth  century  of  our  era),  mainly 

a  question  of  religion.     In  the  East,  even  at  the 

Dislike  of  .  . 

written  charac-  present    day,    there    is    a   tendency    to   associate 

ters      associated  .  . 

with  other  written  characters  much  more  than  language  with 
religion.  There  are  Syrian  Christians  whose 
language  is  Arabic,  but  who  prefer  to  write  their  Arabic  in 
the  Syriac  character ;  and  these  Karshuni  writings  (for 
so  they  are  called)  form  a  considerable  literature.  So  also 
Turkish-speaking  Armenians  and  Greeks  often  employ  the 

1  West  places  the  compilation  of  the  Dinkart,  Bundahish,  and  Arda 
Viraf  Ndmak  in  the  ninth  century  of  our  era  (loc.  cit.,  pp.  433,  436,  437), 
and  regards  it  as  "  unlikely  that  any  of  the  commentators  quoted  in  the 
Pahlawi  translations  of  the  Avesta  could  have  written  later  than  the  sixth 
century."  The  compilation  of  the  Bahman  Yasht,  however,  is  placed  by 
Professor  Darmesteter  as  late  as  A.D.  1099-1350  (Etudes  Iraniennes,  vol.  ii, 
p.  69).  The  interesting  Gujastak  Abdlish  (edited  and  translated  by 
A.  Barthelemy,  Paris,  1887)  describes  a  controversy  between  a  Zoro- 
astrian  priest  and  the  heretic  Abalish  held  in  the  presence  of  the 
Caliph  al-Ma'mun  (A.D.  813-833),  and  therefore  obviously  cannot  have 
been  composed  earlier  than  the  ninth  century. 


DISUSE  OF  PAHLAWt  SCRIPT  $ 

Armenian  and  Greek  characters  respectively  when  they 
write  Turkish.  Similarly  the  Jews  of  Persia  have  a  pretty 
extensive  literature  written  in  the  Persian  language  but  in 
the  Hebrew  character,  while  Moors  of  Spain  who  had  forgotten 
how  to  speak  Arabic  wrote  Spanish  treatises  in  the  Arabic 

character.1  The  Pahlawi  script  was  even  more 
^awawrs^rip1?6  closely  associated  in  the  Eastern  mind  with  the 
rapdwyueftudemt°  Zoroastrian  religion  than  was  the  Arabic  character 

with  the  faith  of  Islam  ;  and  when  a  Persian  was 
converted  from  the  former  to  the  latter  creed  he  gave  up,  as  a 
rule,  once  and  for  all  a  method  of  writing  which  was  not  only 
cumbrous  and  ambiguous  in  the  highest  degree,  but  also  fraught 
with  heathen  associations.  Moreover,  writing  (and  even  read- 
ing) was  probably  a  rare  accomplishment  amongst  the  Persians 
when  the  Pahlawi  character  was  the  means  of  written  com- 
munication, save  amongst  the  Zoroastrian  magopats  and 
dastobars  and  the  professional  scribes  (dapir}.  We  read  in 
the  K&rn&mak-i-Artakhshir-l-Papakan*  or  Book  of  the  Deeds 
of  Ardashir,  the  son  of  Pdpak  (the  founder  of  the  Sasanian 
dynasty) — one  of  the  three  Pahlawi  romances  or  "historical 
novels"  which  time  has  spared  to  us  in  the  original  forms — 
that  when  this  prince  "  reached  the  age  for  the  higher 

1  It  is  even  said  that  a  debased  Arabic  script  is  still  used  by  the  peasants 
inhabiting  the  valleys  of  the  Alpuxarras  mountains  in  their  love-letters. 

2  Translated  into   German   by  Professor  Noldeke  of  Strassburg,  and 
published  in  vol.  iv  of  the  Beitrdge  zur  Kunde  des  Indogermanischen 
Sprachen  on  the  occasion  of  Professor  Benfey's  attainment  of  the  fiftieth 
year  of  his  Doctorate,  as  well  as  in  the  form  of  the   tirage    a  part 
(Gottingen,  1879)  here  cited  (pp.  38-9,  and  n.  3  on  former).    The  Pahlawi 
text  in  the  original  and  in  the  Roman  characters,  with  Gujarat!  translation, 
edited  by  Kaikobad  Adarbad  Nosherwan,  was  published  at  Bombay  in 
1896. 

3  The  others  are  the  Book  of  Zarir  and  the  Story  of  Khusraw  Kawddhdn 
and  his  Page.    The  former  has  been  translated  by  Geiger  in  the  Sitzungs- 
berichte  d.  philos.-philolog.  u.  histor.  Class,  1890,  and  reviewed  by  Noldeke 
in  vol.   xlvi  (1892)   of    the    Zeitschrift  d.   D.   Morgenland.    Gesellschaft, 
pp.  136-145.     See  also  Noldeke's  Persische  Studien,  II,  in  vol.  cxxvi  of 
the  Sitzungsber.  d.  K.  Akad.  in  Wien,  philos.'histor.  Class,  pp.  l-it 


10 


INTRODUCTORY 


I. 

/ 


education,  he  attained  such  proficiency  in  Writing,  Riding, 
and  other  accomplishments  that  he  became  famous  throughout 
all  Pars."  So  also  we  read  in  the  account  which  the  great 
historian  Tabari J  gives  of  the  reign  of  Shapur,  the  son  and 
successor  of  Ardashir,  that  "  when  he  came  to  the  place  where 
he  wished  to  found  the  city  of  Gunde^Shaptir,  he  met  there  an 
old  man  named  Bel,  of  whom  he  enquired  whether  it  would 
be  permitted  him  to  build  a  town  on  this  site.  Bel  answered, 
4  If  I  at  my  advanced  age  can  learn  to  write,  then  is  it  also 
permitted  thee  to  build  a  town  on  this  spot,' "  by  which 
answer,  as  Noldeke  has  pointed  out,  he  meant  to  imply 
(though  in  the  issue  he  proved  mistaken)  that  both  things 
were  impossible.  To  the  Pahlawi  script,  in  short,  might  well 
be  applied  the  Frenchman's  well-known  definition  of  speech 
as  "  the  art  of  concealing  thought "  ;  it  had  no  intrinsic 
merits  save  as  a  unique  philological  puzzle  ;  and,  once  deprived 
of  the  support  of  religion,  ancient  custom,  and  a  conservative 
priesthood,  it  could  not  hold  its  own  against  the  far  more 
legible  and  convenient  Arabic  character,  of  which,  moreover, 
a  knowledge  was  essential  to  every  Muslim.  But  the  fact 
cannot  be  too  strongly  insisted  upon  that  the  peculiarity  of 
Pahlawi  (as  will  be  more  fully  explained  presently)  lay  in  the 
script  only,  and  that  a  Pahlawi  book  read  aloud  by  a  Zoroastrian 
priest  or  scribe  of  the  ninth  century  of  our  era  would  have 
been  perfectly  intelligible  to  a  contemporary  Persian  Muham- 
madan  ;  and  that  if  the  latter  had  taken  it  down  in  the  Arabic 

t  *  See  the  excellent  article  on  Tabari  (Abu  Ja'far  Muhammad  b.  Jarir  of 

Amul  in  Tabaristan,  b.  A.D.  839,  d.  A.D.  923)  in  the  ninth^edition  of  the 

fncydopcedia  Britannica.    The  publication  of  the  text  of  this  immenseT 

4\  and  most  preciousTchronicle  by  Profe.asgjLjie_-Goeje  of  Leyden  and  other 

^distinguished  Arabic  scholars  is  one  of  the  greatest TecenTachievements 

of  Oriental  learning.    A  German  translation  of  the  portion  of  this  chronicle 

which  deals  with  the  history  of  the  Sasanian  period,  accompanied  by  a 

most  valuable  Introduction  and  copious  notes  and  appendices,  has  been 

published  by  Professor  N£ldeke(Ley4enjj[^879)  under  the  title  Gcschichte 

'  der  Perser  und  Araber  ziir  Zeit  tier  Sasaniden?  The  story  here  cited  will 

be  found  in  its  entirety  at  p.  41  of  the  last-named  work. 


BEGINNINGS   OF  MODERN  PERSIAN     11 

character  as  he  heard  it  read,  what  he  wrote  would  have  been 
simply  "  Modern  Persian  "  in  its  most  archaic  form  without 
admixture  of  Arabic  words.  Indeed,  so  comparatively  slight 
(so  far  as  we  can  judge)  are  the  changes  which  the  Persian 
spoken  language  has  undergone  since  the  Sasanian  period,  that 
if  it  were  possible  for  an  educated  Persian  of  the  present  day  to 
be  suddenly  thrust  back  over  a  period  of  fourteen  or  fifteen 
hundred  years,  he  would  probably  be  able  to  understand  at 
least  a  good  deal  of  what  his  countrymen  of  that  period  were 
saying.  The  gulf  which  separates  that  speech  from  Old 
Persian  is  far  wider,  and  the  first  Sasanian  king,  notwith- 
standing the  accomplishments  which  made  him  "  famous 
throughout  all  Pdrs,"  if  he  could  similarly  have  travelled 
backwards  in  time  for  some  six  centuries,  would  have 
comprehended  hardly  a  word  of  what  was  said  at  the 
Achaemenian  court. 

It   is  impossible  to  fix  a   definite  date   at   which   Modern 

Persian    literature   may    be   said    to    have    begun.      Probably 

Persian  converts  to    Isldm  began  to  write  their 

Beginning  of      ,  .         ..       .  .         . 

Modern  Persian  language  in  the  Arabic  character  very  soon  after 

Literature.  .  /-,  . 

the  Arab  L/onquest — that  is  to  say,  some  time 
in  the  eighth  century  of  our  era.  The  first  attempts 
of  this  sort  were  probably  mere  memoranda  and  notes, 

followed,  perhaps,  by  small  manuals  of  instruction 

Prose.  .  •  r    T  ii  T> 

in  the  doctrines  or  Islam,  fragmentary  utter- 
ances in  Persian,  and  even  brief  narratives,  are  recorded  here 
and  there  in  the  pages  of  early  Arabic  writers,  and  these  at 
least  serve  to  show  us  that  the  Persian  of  late  Sasanian  and 
early  Muhammadan  times  was  essentially  the  same  as  that 
with  which  we  meet  in  the  earliest  monuments  of  Modern 
Persian  literature.  Of  actual  books  of  any  extent,  the  Persian 
translation  ot  Tabari's  history  made  for  Mansur  I,  the 
Sdmdnid  prince,  in  A.D.  963  by  his  minister  Bal'ami  ;  the 
Materia  Medico  of  Abu  Mansur  MuwafFaq  b.  *  All  of  Herdt 
(preserved  to  us  in  the  unique  MS.  of  Vienna  dated  A.D.  1055, 


12  INTRODUCTORY 

of  which  a  beautiful  reprint  was  published  by  Seligmann  in 
1859)  composed  for  the  same  royal  patron  ;  and  the  second 
volume  of  an  old  commentary  on  the  Qur'dn  (Cambridge 
University  Library,  Mm.  4.  15)  T  belonging,  apparently,  to 
about  the  same  period,  are,  so  far  as  is  known,  the  oldest 
surviving  specimens. 

It  is  very  generally  assumed,  however,  that  in  Persian,  as  in 
Arabic,  verse  preceded  prose.  One  story,  cited  by  several  of 
the  native  biographers  (e.g.,  Dawlatshah  in  his 
Lives  of  the  Poets],  ascribes  the  first  Persian 
couplet  to  the  joint  invention  of  Bahram  Gur  the  Sasinian 
(A.D.  420-438),  and  his  mistress  Dil-aram.2  Another 
quotes  (on  the  authority  of  Abu  Tahir  al-Khatuni,  a 
writer  of  the  twelfth  century  of  our  era)  a  Persian  couplet 
engraved  on  the  walls  of  the  £)asr-i-Shirin  ("  Palace  of 
Shirin,"  the  beloved  of  Khusraw  Parwiz,  A.D.  590-628),  said 
to  have  been  still  legible  in  the  time  of  'Adudu'd-Dawla  the 
Buwayhid  (tenth  century  of  our  era). 3  Another  tells  how  one 
day  in  Nishapur  the  Amir  'Abdu'lldh  b.  Tahir  (died  A.D.  844) 
was  presented  with  an  old  book  containing  the  Romance  of 
Jfamiq  and  '•Adhra,  "a  pleasing  tale,  which  wise  men  com- 
piled, and  dedicated  to  King  Nushirwan "  (A.D.  531-579); 
and  how  he  ordered  its  destruction,  saying  that  the  Qur'an 
and  Traditions  of  the  Prophet  ought  to  suffice  for  good 
Muslims,  and  adding,  "  this  book  was  written  by  Magians  and 
is  accursed  in  our  eyes."  4  Yet  another  story  given  by 
Dawlatshah  attributes  the  first  line  of  metrical  Persian  to  the 


1  See  my  Description  of  an  Old  Persian  Commentary  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  July,  1894,  pp.  417-524  ;  and  my  Catalogue  of 
the  Persian  MSS.  in  the  Cambtidge  University  Library,  pp.  13-37. 

2  Dawlatshah  (ed.  Browne),  pp.  28-29.    See  also  Blochmann's  Prosody 
of  the  Persians,  p.  2  ;  Darmesteter's  Origines  de  la  Poesie  Persane,  first 
paragraph. 

3  See  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski's  Divan  de  Menoutchehri  (Paris,  1886), 
p.  7,  and  Dawlatshah,  p.  29. 

4  Kazimirski,  pp.  6-7.    Dawlatshah,  p.  30. 


BEGINNINGS   OF  PERSIAN  POETRY      13 

gleeful  utterance  of  a  little  -child  at  play,  the  child  being  the 
son  of  Ya'qiib  b.  Layth  "the  Coppersmith,"  founder  of 
the  Saffari  ("Brazier")  dynasty  (A.D.  868-878).'  Muhammad 
'Awfi,  the  author  of  the  oldest  extant  Biography  of  Persian 
Poets*  who  flourished  early  in  the  thirteenth  century  of  our 
era  (A.D.  1210-1235),  asserts  that  the  first  Persian  poem  was 
composed  by  one  'Abbas  of  Merv  in  honour  of  the  Caliph 
al-Ma'mun,  the  son  of  HaVunu'r-Rashid,  on  the  occasion  of 
his  entry  into  that  city  in  A.D.  809,  and  even  cites  some  verses 
of  the  poem  in  question  ;  but,  though  this  assertion  has  been 
accepted  as  a  historical  fact  by  some  scholars  of  repute,3  the 
scepticism  of  others  4  appears  to  the  writer  well  justified.  All 
that  can  be  safely  asserted  is  that  modern  Persian  literature, 
especially  poetry,  had  begun  to  flourish  considerably  in 
Khurasan  during  the  first  half  of  the  tenth  century,  especially 
during  the  reign  of  the  Sdmanid  prince  Nasr  II  (A.D.  913— 
942),  and  thus  covers  a  period  of  nearly  a  thousand  years, 
during  which  time  the  language  has  changed  so  little  that  the 
verses  cf  an  early  poet  like  Riidagi  are  at  least  as  plain  to  a 
Persian  of  to-day  as  is  Shakespear  to  a  modern  Englishman. 

Most  of  the  legends  as  to  the  origin  of  Persian  poetry  are, 
as  we  have  seen,  unworthy  of  very  serious  attention,  and 

r* 

*  See  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski's  Menoutchehri  (Paris,  1886),  pp.  7-8, 
and  Dawlatshah  (ed.  Browne),  pp.  30-31. 

3  The  Lubdbu'l-Albdb,  a  very  rare  book,  represented,  so  far  as  is  known, 
only  by  two  MSS.,  one  (Sprenger  318  ;  No.  637  of  Pertsch's  Catalogue)  in 
the  Berlin  Library,  the  other  in  the  possession  of  Lord  Crawford  and 
Balcarres,  whose  generosity  has  entrusted  to  ray  hands  this  priceless 
treasure,  which  I  propose  to  publish  in  my  series  of  Persian  historical 
texts.  This  MS.  formerly  belonged  to  John  Bardoe  Elliot,  by  whom  it 
was  lent  to  Nathaniel  Bland,  who  described  its  contents  and  scope  in 
vol.  ix  of  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  (1846),  pp.  111-126. 
See  also  Sprenger's  Catalogue  of  the  Libraries  of  the  King  ofOude,  pp.  1-6. 

3  E.g.,  Dr.  Ethe  :  Rudagi's  Vorlaufcr  und  Zeitgenossen  (in  the  Morgen- 
landische  Forschungen  for  1873),  pp.  36-38 ;  also  the  article  on  Modern 
Persian  Literature  by  the  same  scholar  in  vol.  ii  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn's 
Grundriss  der  Iranischen  Philologie,  p.  218. 

«  E.g.,  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski,  Menoutchehri,  pp.  8-9. 


14  INTRODUCTORY 

certainly  merit  little  more  credence  than  the  assertion  of 
serious  and  careful  Arab  writers,  like  Tabari  (fA.D.  923),  and 
Mas'udi  (|A.D.  957),  that  the  first  poem  ever  written  was  an 
elegy  composed  in  Syriac  by  Adam  on  the  death  of  Abel,  of 
which  poem  they  even  give  an  Arabic  metrical  rendering  *  to 
this  effect : — 

"  The  lands  are  changed  and  those  who  dwell  upon  them , 

The  face  of  earth  is  marred  and  girt  with  gloom ; 
All  that  was  fair  and  fragrant  now  hath  faded, 

Gone  from  that  comely  face  the  joyous  bloom. 
Alas  for  my  dear  son,  alas  for  Abel, 

A  victim  murdered,  thrust  within  the  tomb! 
How  can  we  rest  ?    That  Fiend  accursed,  unfailing, 

Undying,  ever  at  our  side  doth  loom  !" 

To  which  the  Devil  is  alleged  to  have  retorted  thus  : — 

"  Renounce  these  lands  and  those  who  dwell  upon  them  ! 

By  me  was  cramped  in  Paradise  thy  room, 
Wherein  thy  wife  and  thou  were  set  and  stablished, 

Thy  heart  unheeding  of  the  world's  dark  doom  ! 
Yet  did'st  thou  not  escape  my  snares  and  scheming, 

Till  that  great  gift  on  which  thou  did'st  presume 
Was  lost  to  thee,  and  blasts  of  wind  from  Eden, 

But  for  God's  grace,  had  swept  thee  like  a  broom  ! " 

Nevertheless  there  is  one  legend  indicating  the  existence  of 

Persian  poetry  even  in  Sasanian  times  which,  partly  from  the 

persistency  with  which  it  reappears  in  various  old 

sisirianmien.    writers  of  credit,2  partly  from  a  difference  in  the 

51161  fcTO590"    f°rm  °f  t'ie  m'nstrel's  name  which  can  hardly  be 

explained  save  on  the  assumption  that  both  forms 

1  Tabari,  vol.  i,  p.  146  ;  Mas'udi,  Murtiju'dh-Dhahab  (ed.  Barbier  d« 
Meynard),  vol.  i,  pp.  65-67  ;  Tha'alibi,  Qi$asu'l-Anbiyd  (ed.  Cairo,  A.H. 
1306)1  PP-  29-30  ;  Dawlatshah  (ed.  Browne),  p.  20. 

8  Amongst  Arabic  writers,  the  earliest  mention  of  Bahlabad  which  I 
have  found  is  made  in  a  poem  by  Khalid  b.  Fayyad  (circ.  A.D.  718),  cited 
by  Hamadhani,  Yaqut  and  Qazwini,  and  translated  at  pp.  59-60  of  the 
J.R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1899.  Accounts,  more  or  less  detailed,  are  given  of 


BARB  AD   THE  MINSTREL  15 

were  transcribed  from  a  Pahlawf  original,  appears  to  me  worthy 
of  more  serious  attention.  According  to  this  legend,  one  of  the 
chief  ornaments  of  the  court  of  Khusraw  Parwiz,  the  Sisanian 
king  (A.D.  590—627),  was  a  minstrel  named  by  Persian  writers 
Barbad,  but  by  Arabic  authors  Bahlabad,  Balahbad  or 
Fahlabad,  forms  of  which  the  first  and  third  point  to  a 
Persian  original  Pahlapat.  Bahlabad  and  Barbad  when 
written  in  the  Arabic  character  are  not  easily  confounded  ; 
but  if  written  in  the  Pahlawi  character,  which  has  but  one 
sign  for  A  and  H  on  the  one  hand,  and  for  R  and  L  on  the 
other,  they  are  identical,  which  fact  affords  strong  evidence 
that  the  legends  concerning  this  singer  go  back  ultimately  to 
books  written  in  Pahlawi,  in  other  words  to  records  almost 
contemporary.  Now  this  Barbad  (for  simplicity  the 
modern  Persian  form  of  the  name  is  adopted  here,  save  in 
citations  from  Arabic  texts)  presents,  as  I  have  elsewhere 
pointed  out,1  a  striking  resemblance  to  the  Samanid  poet 
Rudagi,  who  flourished  in  the  early  part  of  the  tenth  century 

him  by  Ibn  Qutayba  (fA.D.  889)  in  his  'Uyunu'l-akhbdr  (MS.  of  St.  Petersburg 
Asiatic  Museum,  No.  691)  ;  al-Jahidh  (}A.D.  8P))  in  his  Kitdbu'l~Hayawdn 
(Cambridge  MS.,  Qq.  224) ;  Hamadhani  (circ.  A.D.  903),  ed.  de  Goeje  ;  the 
authoi5  of  the  Kitdbu'l-Mahdsin  wa'l-Addad  (ed.  Van  Vloten,  pp.  363-64), 
probably  al-Bayhaqi  (circ.  A.D.  925)  ;  Ibn  'Abd  Rabbihi  (|A.D.  940),  vol.  i, 
p.  192  or  188  of  another  edition  ;  Abu'l-Faraj  al-Isfahani  (fA.D.  957),  in  the 
Kildbu'l-Aghdni ;  Yaqiit  (fA.D.  1229),  vol.  iii,  pp.  250  et  seqq. ;  and  al- 
Qazwini  (fA.D.  1283),  in  his  Athdru'l-Bildd  (pp.  154-55,  230-231,  295-297). 
Of  Persian  writers  who  allude  to  him  we  may  mention  Sharif-i-Mujallidi 
(date  uncertain  :  cited  by  Nidhami-i-'Arudi-i-Samarqandi  in  the  Chahdr 
Maqdla) ;  Firdawsi  (fcirc.  A.D.  415),  in  the  Shdhndma  ;  Nidhami  of  Ganja 
(\  circ;  A.D.  1203)  in  his  Khusraw  wa  Shirin,  and  the  other  Nidhami  above 
cited  (t  circ.  A.D.  1160) ;  Muhammad  'Awfi(circ.  A.D.  1228) ;  and  Hamdu'llah 
Mustawfi  of  Qazvvin  (circ.  A.D.  1340)  in  the  Tdrikh-i-Guzida.  I  am  in- 
debted to  Baron  V.  Rosen,  of  St.  Petersburg,  for  calling  my  attention  to 
several  of  the  above  references,  which  I  had  overlooked  when  writing  the 
article  referred  to  in  the  next  note. 

1  See  my  article  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1899  (pp.  37-69),  on 
The  Sources  of  Dawlatshdh ;  with  some  remarks  on  the  Materials  avail- 
able for  a  Literary  History  of  Persia,  and  an  Excursus  on  Barbad  and 


i6  INTRODUCTORY 

of  our  era;  and  indeed  the  two  are  already  associated  by  an 
early  poet,  Sharif-i-Mujallidf  of  Gurgan,  who  sings  : — 

"  From  all  the  treasures  hoarded  by  the  Houses 
Of  Sasan  and  of  Saman,  in  our  days 
Nothing  survives  except  the  song  of  Barbad, 
Nothing  is  left  save  Rudagi's  sweet  lays." 

For  in  all  the  accounts  of  Rudagi  which  we  possess  his  most 
remarkable  achievement  is  the  song  which  he  composed  and 
sung  in  the  presence  of  the  Samanid  Amir  Nasr  b.  Ahmad  to 
induce  that  Prince  to  abandon  the  charms  of  Herat  and  its 
environs,  and  to  return  to  his  native  Bukhara,  which  he  had 
neglected  for  four  years.  The  extreme  simplicity  of  this  song 
and  its  entire  lack  of  rhetorical  adornment,  have  been  noticed 
by  most  of  those  who  have  described  this  incident,  by  some 
(e.g.  Nidhami-i-'Arudi  of  Samarqand)  with  approval,  by  others, 
such  as  Dawlatshah,  with  disapprobation,  mixed  with  surprise 
that  words  so  simple  could  produce  so  powerful  an  effect.  And 
indeed  it  is  rather  a  ballad  than  a  formal  poem  of  the  artificial 
and  rather  stilted  type  most  admired  in  those  decadent  days  to 
which  Dawlatshah  belongs,  and  in  which,  as  he  says,  "  If  any 
one  were  to  produce  such  a  poem  in  the  presence  of  kings  or 
nobles,  it  would  meet  with  the  reprobation  of  all."  To  the 
musical  skill  of  the  minstrel,  and  his  cunning  on  the  harp 
wherewith  he  accompanied  his  singing,  the  simple  ballad,  of 
which  a  paraphrase  is  here  offered,  no  doubt  owed  much  : — 

"  The  Ju-yi-Muliyan  we  call  to  mind, 
We  long  for  those  dear  friends  long  left  behind. 
The  sands  of  Oxus,  toilsome  though  they  be, 
Beneath  my  feet  were  soft  as  silk  to  me. 
Glad  at  the  friends'  return,  the  Oxus  deep 
Up  to  our  girths  in  laughing  waves  shall  leap. 
Long  live  Bukhara !     Be  thou  of  good  cheer  ! 
Joyous  towards  thee  hasteth  our  Amir ! 
The  Moon's  the  Prince,  Bukhara  is  the  sky ; 
O  Sky,  the  Moon  shall  light  thee  by  and  by  I 
Bukhara  is  the  Mead,  the  Cypress  he; 
Receive  at  last,  O  Mead,  thy  Cypress-tree  1" 


BARB  AD  AND  RtfDAGt  I? 

"  When  Rudagi  reached  this  verse,"  adds  the  oldest  authority  for 
this  narrative  (Nidharni-i-'Ariidi  of  Samarqand),  "the  Amir  was  so 
much  affected  that  he  descended  from  his  throne,  bestrode  the 
horse  of  the  sentinel  on  duty,  and  set  off  for  Bukhara  in  such  haste 
that  they  carried  his  riding  boots  after  him  for  two  parasangs,  as  far 
as  Bunina,  where  he  put  them  on  ;  neither  did  he  draw  rein  anywhere 
till  he  reached  Bukhara ;  and  Rudagi  received  from  the  army  the 
double  of  that  five  thousand  dinars  [which  they  had  promised  him 
in  the  event  of  his  success]." 

Thus  Rudagi  was  as  much  harper,  ballad  singer,  and  impro- 
visatore  as  poet,  resembling,  probably,  the  minstrels  whose 
tasnifs,  or  topical  ballads,  may  be  heard  to-day  at  any  Persian 
entertainment  of  which  music  and  singing  form  a  part ; 
resembling  also,  as  has  been  pointed  out,  that  dimly  visible 
Barbad  or  Bahlabad  of  the  old  Sasanian  days.  Of  the  ten  men 
reckoned  by  the  Persians  incomparable  each  in  his  own  way, 
he  was  one  ;  and  herein  lay  his  special  virtue  and  merit,  that 
when  aught  must  be  made  known  to  King  Khusraw  Parwiz 
which  none  other  dared  utter  for  terror  of  the  royal  displeasure, 
Barbad  would  weave  it  dexterously  into  a  song,  and  sing  it 
before  the  king.  Parwiz  had  a  horse  called  Shabdiz,  beautiful 
and  intelligent  beyond  all  others  ;  and  so  greatly  did  the  king 
love  Shabdiz  that  he  swore  to  slay  that  man  who  should  bring 
the  tidings  of  his  death.  So  when  Shabdiz  died,  the  Master  of 
the  Horse  prayed  Bahlabad  to  make  it  known  to  the  king  in  a 
song,  of  which  Parwiz  listening  divined  the  purport  and  cried, 
"Woe  unto  thee  !  Shabdiz  is  dead  !"  "It  is  the  king  who 
sayeth  it,"  replied  the  minstrel  ;  and  so  escaped  the  threatened 
death  and  made  the  king's  oath  of  no  effect.  Thus  is  the  tale 
told  by  the  Arab  poet,  Khalid  b.  Fayyad,  who  lived  little  more 
than  a  century  after  Khusraw  Parwiz : —  & 

"And  Khusraw,  King  of  kings,  him  too  an  arrow 
Plumed  from  the  wings  of  Death  did  sorely  smite, 
E'en  as  he  slept  in  Shirin's  soft  embraces 
Amidst  brocades  and  perfumes,  through  the  night 
Dreaming  of  Shabdiz  whom  he  used  to  ride, 
His  noble  steed,  his  glory  and  his  pride, 

3 


1 8  INTRODUCTORY 

He  with  an  oath  most  solemn  and  most  binding, 

Not  to  be  loosed,  had  sworn  upon  the  Fire 

That  whoso  first  should  say,  '  Shabdiz  hath  perished/ 

Should  die  upon  the  cross  in  torments  dire  ; 

Until  one  morn  that  horse  lay  low  in  death 

Like  whom  no  horse  hath  been  since  man  drew  breath 

Four  strings  wailed  o'er  him,  while  the  minstrel  kindled 

Pity  and  passion  by  the  witchery 

Of  his  left  hand,  and,  while  the  strings  vibrated, 

Chanted  a  wailing  Persian  threnody, 

Till  the  King  cried,  '  My  horse  Shabdiz  is  dead  ! ' 
'It  is  the  King  that  sayeth  it,'  they  said." 

Other  minstrels  of  this  old  time  are  mentioned,  whose 
names  alone  are  preserved  to  us  :  Afarin,  Khusrawani, 
Madharastam,1  and  the  harper  Sakisa,2  beings  yet  more 
shadowy  than  Barbad,  of  whose  notes  not  so  much  as  an  echo 
has  reached  our  time.  Yet  can  we  hardly  doubt  that  those  old 
Sasanian  halls  and  palaces  lacked  not  this  ornament  of  song, 
whereof  some  reflex  at  least  passed  over  into  Muhammadan 
times.  For  though  the  modern  Persian  prosody  be  modelled 
on  that  of  the  Arabs,  there  are  types  of  verse — notably  the 
quatrain  (rubdli]  and  the  narrative  poem  in  doublets  (mathnawi) 
— which  are  to  all  appearance  indigenous.  Whether,  as 
Darmesteter  seems  to  think,3  there  is  sufficient  evidence  to 
warrant  us  in  believing  that  romantic  poetry  existed  in  Persia 
even  in  Achaemenian  times  is  too  problematical  a  question  to 
be  discussed  in  this  place. 

Hitherto  we  have  considered  only  the  history  of  the  Persian 

language  and  the  Persian  power  in  the  narrower  sense  of  the 

_.. .     .      t    term.    We  have  now  to  extend  the  field  of  inquiry 

Wider  view  of  4         •  i  j 

the  iranian      so  as  to    include  the  whole  Iranian    people  and 
their  literary  remains.     The  ground  on  which  we 

*  Al-Bayhaqi's  Kitdbu'l-Mahdsin  {ed.  Van  Vloten),  p.  363. 

*  Nidhami  of  Ganja's  Khusraw  wa  Shirin. 

3  Darmesteter' s  Origines  de  la  Potsie  Per  sane  (Paris,  1887),  p.  3, 


THE  MEDES  19 

now  enter  is,  unfortunately,  much  less  sure  than  that  which 
we  have  hitherto  traversed  ;  the  problems  which  we  shall 
encounter  are  far  more  complicated,  and  their  solutions  are,  in 
many  cases,  uncertain  and  conjectural. 

The  oldest  Persian  dynasty,  the  Achaemenian,  with  which 
we  began  our  retrospect  of  Persian  history,  rose  by  the  fall  of 
a  power  not  less  famous  than  itself,  that  of 
des'  the  Medes,  whom  from  our  earliest  days  we 
are  accustomed  to  associate  with  the  Persians.  In  the 
modern  sense  of  the  term,  indeed,  they  were  Persians,  but  of 
the  West,  not  of  the  South,  having  their  centre  and  capital  at 
Ecbatana  (Hagmatana  of  the  Old  Persian  inscriptions,  now 
H.amadan\  not  at  Persepolis  (Sasanian  Istakhr^  near  Shirdz,  the 
present  chief  town  of  Fars).  The  actual  boundaries  of  Media 
cannot  be  precisely  defined,  but,  roughly  speaking,  it  extended 
from  the  Mountains  of  Azarbayjdn  (Atropatene)  on  the  north 
to  Susiana  (Khuzistdn)  on  the  south,  and  from  the  Zagros 
Mountains  on  the  east  to  about  the  line  of  the  modern  Tihran- 
Isfahdn  road,  with  a  north-eastern  prolongation  including  the 
whole  or  part  of  Mdzandardn.  In  modern  phraseology,  there- 
fore, it  comprised  Kurdistan,  Luristan  the  northern  part  of 
Khuzistan,  the  western  part  of  'Iraq-i-'Ajami,  and  the  southern 
part  of  Azarbdyjdn.  Amongst  the  hardy  mountaineers  of  this 
wide  region  arose  the  Medic  power.  The  name  of  Media  does 
not,  like  that  of  Persia,  still  survive  in  the  land  to  which  it 
originally  belonged,  but,  as  has  been  shown  by  de  Lagarde  and 
Olshausen,  it  continued,  even  in  Muhammadan  times,  under 
the  form  Mah  (Old  Persian  Mdda)  to  enter  into  certain  place 
names,  such  as  Mdh-Khfa,  Mali-Basra,  Mdh-Nahdwand.1 

1  Already,  however,  in  A.D.  1700,  the  celebrated  Cambridge  scholar  and 
pupil  of  Abraham  Wheelock,  Dr.  Hyde,  who  in  later  life  became  attached 
to  the  University  of  Oxford  as  Professor  of  Hebrew,  Laudian  Professor  of 
Arabic,  and  Keeper  of  the  Bodleian  Library,  had  recognised  the  identity 
of  Mdh  with  Mdda  (see  Vet.  Pers.  Rclig.  Hist.,  ed.  1760,  p.  424). 


20  INTRODUCTORY 

The  Medes,  unfortunately,  unlike  the  Persians,  have  left 
no  records  of  their  achievements,  and  we  are  consequently 

dependent  for  information  concerning  them  on 
M^rcesof  tjae  records  of  other  nations  who  had  direct  or 

indirect  knowledge  of  them,  notably  the  Assyrians, 
Jews,  and  Greeks.  As  regards  the  Assyrian  records,  Amadana 
(Hamaddn),  the  capital  of  the  Medes,  is  mentioned  in  an 

inscription  of  Tiglath  Pileser  (circ.  B.C.  noo) 
Assymn  as  a  subject  territory1 ;  and  it  is  again  mentioned 

in  an  inscription  of  the  ninth  century  before  Christ. 
Salmonassar-Sargon  (B.C.  731-713)  boasts  that  he  had  made 
his  name  feared  in  distant  Media,  and  the  same  region  is 

referred  to  by  his  successor  Sennacherib,  and  by 
Jewish  records.  Esar-haddon  (B.C.  680-669).  ^n  2  Kings  xvii,  6 

we  read  that  "  in  the  ninth  year  of  Hoshea " 
(B.C.  722)  "the  King  of  Assyria  took  Samaria,  and  carried 
Israel  away  into  Assyria,  and  placed  them  in  Halah  and  in 
Habor  by  the  river  of  Gozan,  and  in  the  cities  of  the  Medes  ;  " 
and  this  statement  is  repeated  in  verse  n  of  the  next  chapter.2 
Of  the  three  Greek  historians  whose  works  are  primary 
sources  for  this  period,  Herodotus  merits  the  first  mention,  both 

on  account  of  his  veracity  (to  which  the  cuneiform 
Greet  records,  inscriptions  bear  abundant  testimony)  and  because 

Herodotus.         ....  .  .  . 

ctesias.  his  history  alone  oi  the  three  is  preserved  to  us  in 
its  entirety.  Ctesias,  who  flourished  in  the  fifth 
century  before  Christ,  was  physician  to  Artaxerxes  Mnemon, 
and  professed  to  derive  his  information  from  the  Persian  royal 
archives.  This  statement  at  least  affords  evidence  of  the 
existence  of  such  documents,  which  are  also  referred  to  in 
the  Book  of  Esther,  where  we  read  (chap,  vi,  i)  that  King 
Ahasueras,  being  unable  to  sleep,  "commanded  to  bring  the 
book  of  records  of  the  chronicles  ; "  and  (chap,  ii,  23)  that  the 
plot  against  the  king's  life  devised  by  Bigthan  and  Teresh 

Spiegel,  Eranischc  Alterthumskunde,  ii,  246. 
•  Noldeke,  Aufsatze  zur  Persischen  Geschichte  (Leipzig,  1887),  p.  5. 


THE  MEDES  21 

and  disclosed  by  Mordecai  "  was  written  in  the  book  of  the 
chronicles  before  the  King."  Whether  because  Ctesias  im- 
perfectly understood  or  deliberately  misrepresented  these 
records,  or  because  the  records  themselves  were  falsified 
(a  thing  which  modern  analogies  render  conceivable),  the 
prevailing  view  is  that  little  reliance  can  be  placed  on  his 
narrative,  which,  moreover,  is  only  preserved  to  us  in  a 
fragmentary  condition  by  much  later  writers, 
such  as  Photius  (A.D.  820-891).  Berosus  was  a 
Chaldsean  priest  who  lived  in  the  time  of  Alexander  the 
Great  and  his  immediate  successors,  and  translated  into  Greek, 
for  his  patron  Antiochus  of  Syria,  the  records  of  his  country. 
Of  his  work  also  fragments  only  are  preserved  to  us  by  later 
writers,  Polyhistor  and  Apollodorus  (first  century  before 
Christ),  who  are  cited  by  Eusebius  and  Syncellus. 

The  Medes,  according  to  Herodotus,  were  the  first  of  the 
peoples  subject   to  Assyria  who  succeeded  in  securing  their 
independence,  after  they  had  borne  the  yoke  for  520  years. 
This   took   place   about    B.C.    700,   and  a    year 
or    two   later    Deioces   (At?toKfje)j   the   first    of 
the     four     Medic    kings    mentioned    by    Herodotus,    estab- 
lished himself  on  the  throne.     An  Assyrian  record  of  B.C.  715 
mentions  a  Dayaukku  (=  Deioces)  who  had   been  led  away 
captive;     and     in     B.C.    71?     King    Sargon    of 

Phraorte*.  '     ° 

Assyria  subdued  the  Bit  Dayaukku,  or  "  Land  of 
Deioces."  Phraortes  (Fravartish  in  the  Old  Persian  inscriptions) 
succeeded  in  B.C.  647,  and  extended  his  rule  over  the  Persians 

as    well   as   his    own    countrymen,    the    Medes. 

Cyaxares. 

He  in  turn  was  succeeded  in  B.C.  025  by 
Cyaxares  (Huvakhshatara),  who,  in  conjunction  with  the 
Babylonian  king,  destroyed  Nineveh  in  B.C.  607,  and  con- 
cluded peace  with  the  Lydians  in  B.C.  585,  in  consequence 
of  a  total  eclipse  of  the  sun  which  took  place  on  May  28th 
of  that  year,  and  which  was  regarded  by  both  sides  as  an 
indication  of  Divine  displeasure.  In  the  same  year,  probably, 


22  INTRODUCTORY 

he  died,  and    was   followed   by  his   son  Astyages,  who  was 
overthrown  by  Cyrus  the  Achaemenian    in    B.C. 
550,   when   the   power    passed   from    the   West- 
Irinian  Medes  to  the  South-Irinian  Persians. 

With  the  exploits  of  the  Medes,  however,  we  are  not  here 

concerned.     The    two    questions   in    connection    with    them 

which  are  of  importance  from  our  present  point  of  view  are — 

first,  what  was  their  language  ?  second,  what  was  their  religion  ? 

It  has  been  hitherto  assumed,  in  accordance  with  the  most 

prevalent,    and,    in    the    opinion    of    the    writer,    the    most 

probable  view,  that  the  Medes  were   an  Iranian 

Th  ulenMedes  °f    race  speaking  an   Iranian    language  closely  akin 

to   Old    Persian.     This   is   the   view    taken,    for 

instance,  by   Noldeke,    who,   in    concluding    his   account   of 

the  Medic  Empire,  says  x : — 

"  Perhaps  careful  examinations  of  the  neighbourhood  of  Hamadan, 
or  excavations,  may  still  some  day  bring  to  light  other  traces  of  that 
ancient  time.  It  would  be  of  the  greatest  value  if  inscriptions  of 
the  Medic  kings  should  chance  to  be  found ;  I  should  conjecture 
that  these,  both  in  language  and  script,  would  be  quite  similar  to 
those  of  the  Persian  kings." 

Darmesteter,  whose  views  will  be  discussed  at  greater 
length  presently,  goes  further,  and  declares  that  the  language 
of  the  Avesta,  the  so-called  Zend  language,  is  the  language  of 
Media,  the  Medic  tongue. 

"  La  conclusion  qui  s'impose,"  says  he,a  after  adducing  evidence 
in  favour  of  his  view,  "c'est  que  la  tradition  parsie  et  1'Avesta, 
confirmes  par  des  temoignages  etrangers,  voient  le  centre  et  le 

1  Aufsatze  zurPersisch.  Gesch.  (Leipzig,  1887),  p.  12. 

*  Darmesteter,  Etudes  Iraniennes,  vol.  i,  pp.  12,  13.  M.  de  Harlez 
(Manuel  de  la  Langue  de  I' Avesta,  1882,  pp.  xi,  and  Introduction  a  I'etude 
de  V Avesta  et  de  la  religion  Mazdeene,  1881,  pp.  xlv.  et  seqq.)  takes  the  same 
view.  "  Nous  croyons  avoir  demontre  que  1' Avesta  doit  etre  attribue  a  la 
Medie,  que  sa  langue  etait  celle  des  Mages.  Toutefois,  comme  cette  opinion 
n'est  point  encore  universellement  admise,  nous  preferons  employer,  a 
1'exemple  des  Parses,  le  terme  '  Avestique '  exempt  certainement  de  tout 
erreur.  Le  mot  '  Zend '  meme  est  preferable  a  '  Vieux-Bactrien,'  parce 
que  c'est  un  terme  de  convention  dont  1'emploi  ne  prejuge  rien." 


THE  MEDES  23 

bcrceau  du  Zoroastrisme,  soit  en  Atropatene,  soit  a  Rat,  dans  1'un 
et  1'autre  cas  en  Medic.  .  .  .  Je  crois  que  les  droits  de  1'Atropatene 
sont  mieux  etablis,  et  que  c'est  de  la  que  le  Zoroastrisme  a  pris  sa 
course  de  1' Quest  a  1'Est.  En  tout  cas,  le  Zoroastrisme  est  unc  chose 
mtdique,  el  FAvesta  est  Tceuvre  des  pretres  medes.  ...  II  suit  .  .  .  par 
le  temoignage  externe  des  classiques  joint  au  temoignage  intrinseque 
des  livres  zends  et  de  la  tradition  native,  que  1'A vesta  est  1'ceuvre  des 
Mages,  que  le  zend  est  la  langue  de  la  Medie  ancienne,  et  que  Ton 
aurait  le  droit  de  remplacer  le  nom  impropre  de  langue  zende  pai-  le 
terme  de  langue  medique." 

A  totally  different  view,  which  ought  not  to  pass  unnoticed, 
is  held  by  Oppert,  and  set  forth  at  length  in  his  work  Le 

Peuple  et  la  Langue  des  Medes.  The  inscriptions 
t£atPf£SMedcs  °^  ^6  Achasmenian  kings,  as  is  well  known,  are 
werc  r»[e.ranian  drawn  up  in  three  different  languages,  of  which 

the  first  is  Old  Persian  and  the  third  Assyrian. 
As  to  the  second,  concerning  the  nature  of  which  much  doubt 
has  prevailed,  M.  Oppert  holds  that  it  is  Medic,  and  that  it  is 
not  an  Aryan  but  a  Turanian  tongue  ;  which  astonishing 
opinion  he  supports  by  many  ingenious  arguments.  The 
very  name  of  Media  (Mada)  he  explains  by  a  Sumerian 
word  mada^  meaning  "country";  and  the  names  of  the 
Medic  kings  given  by  Ctesias  he  regards  as  the  Aryan 
equivalents  of  the  Aryanized  Turanian  names  given  by 
Herodotus  and  in  the  Old  Persian  inscriptions.  Thus,  for 
instance,  in  his  view,  the  name  of  the  first  Medic  king  of 
Herodotus  was  compounded  of  daya  (other)  and  ukku  (law), 
the  Aryanized  or  Persianized  form  of  which  was  probably 
Ddhyuka^  "  le  reunisseur  des  pays  "  ;  wh'ile  the  Persian 
translation  of  the  same  was  the  form  given  by  Ctesias, 
A/oratoc,  which  "  recalls  to  us  the  Persian  Artayu,  from  arta^ 
'law,'  and  dyu^  c  reuniting.'"  Of  the  six  tribes  of  the  Medes 
mentioned  by  Herodotus  (bk.  i,  ch.  ci),  Oppert  admits  that 
the  names  are  Aryan  ;  but  he  contends  that  in  the  case  of  two 
at  least,  the  Bovaai  and  the  Sr/oou^arnC)  we  have  to  do  with 
Aryan  translations  of  the  original  names?  which  he  believe^ 


24  INTRODUCTORY 

to   have    been   Turanian,  and    to    have    denoted    respectively 
"  autochthones  "  and  "  vivant  dans  les  tentes." 

There  are  but  very  few  scholars  who  are  qualified   to  re- 
survey  the  ground  traversed  by  M.  Oppert  and   to  form  an 
independent  judgment  of  his  results  in  matters  of 
Dar"iew-eter  s    Detail  5  but,  as  regards  his  general  conclusions,  we 
concur  with  DarmesteteV  in  the  summary  state- 
ment of  objections  to  M.  Oppert's  theory  wherewith  he  closes 
his  review  of  the  book  in  question  J  : — 

"  Nous  ne  voyons  done  pas  de  raison  suffisante  pour  abandonner 
1'opinion  traditionelle,  que  la  langue  des  Medes  etait  une  langue 
aryenne,  opinion  qui  a  pour  elle,  en  somme,  le  temoignage  direct 
de  Strabon,  er  le  temoignage  indirect  d'Herodote,  sans  parler  des 
raisons  tres  fortes  qui  font  de  la  Medie  le  lieu  d'origine  du  Zend 
Avesta  et  par  suite  la  patrie  du  zend." 

In  the  absence  of  further  discoveries,  the  theory  that  the 
Medes  were  an  Iranian  people  speaking  an  Iranian  language 
closely  akin  to  Old  Persian  is  the  view  which  we  must  con- 
tinue to  regard  as  most  probable. 

It  has  already  been  said  that  the  Medic  kings,  unlike  the 
Achaemenians,  left  no  records  of  their  achievements  ;  while,  as 
regards  their  language,  some  scholars,  like  Noldeke, 
sta'  think  that,  though  specimens  of  it  may  be 
brought  to  light  by  future  discoveries,  none  are  at  present 
accessible  ;  others,  like  Oppert,  find  such  specimens  in  the 
cuneiform  inscriptions  of  the  second  class  ;  while  others,  like 
Darmesteter,  believe  that  we  possess  in  the  ancient  scriptures 
of  the  Zoroastrians,  the  Zend-Avesta,  an  ample  specimen  not 
only  of  the  language,  but  also  of  the  literature,  of  the  Medes. 
That  the  language  of  the  Avesta  is  an  Iranian  language, 
standing  to  Old  Persian  in  the  relation  of  sister,  not  of  daughter 
or  mother,  is  proved  beyond  all  reasonable  doubt.  As  to  the 
part  of  Iran  where  it  flourished,  there  is  not,  however,  the 

1  Etudes  Iramennes,  ii,  p.  14  ;  reprinted  from  the  Revue  Critique  for 
June  21,  1889. 


LANGUAGE  OF  THE  AVESTA  **> 

same  unanimity ;  for  while  Darmesteter,  as  we  have  seen, 
regards  it  as  the  language  of  Media,  the  opinion  prevalent  in 
Germany  is  that  it  was  the  language  of  Bactria,  and  it  has 
even  become  fashionable  to  speak  of  it  as  "  Old  Bactrian  '*  and 
"  East  Iranian."  Darmesteter,  in  his  usual  clear  and  concise 
way,  sums  up  the  arguments  of  the  East  Iratiian  or  Bactrian 

theory  before  proceeding  to  refute  them,  as  follows  * : — 
I 

(1)  Zend  is  not  the  language  of  Persia. 

(2)  It  is  in  Bactria  that,  according  to  tradition,  Zoroaster  made 
his  first  important  conquest,  King  Gushtasp. 

(3)  The  geography  of  the  Avesta  only  knows  the  east  of  Iran. 

"  The  first  fact,"  he  continues,  "  is  correct,  but  purely  negative  ;  it 
excludes  Persia  [z'.e.v  Persis  proper]  from  the  question,  but  leaves 
free  all  the  rest  of  Iran. 

"  The  second  fact  is  correct,  but  only  proves  that  Bactria  plays  a 
great  part  in  the  religious  Epic  of  Zoroastrianism ;  the  struggles 
maintained  by  the  Iranians  against  the  idolatrous  Turanians,  of 
which  Bactria,  by  its  geographical  position,  was  the  natural  theatre, 
must  necessarily  have  drawn  the  thoughts  of  the  faithful  to  this 
part  of  Iran,  where  the  worshippers  of  Ahura  Mazda  were  at  death- 
grips  with  the  worshippers  of  the  daevas,  and  which  formed  the 
frontier-post  of  Ormazd  against  barbarous  idolatry  ;  it  is  even  very 
probable  that  the  legends  concerning  the  conversion  of  Bactria  and 
of  King  Gushtasp  bequeath  to  us  a  historic  recollection  of  the  con- 
quests of  Zoroastrianism  in  the  East.  Nowhere,  however,  is  Bactria 
represented  as  the  cradle  of  Zoroaster  and  Zoroastrianism ;  Pars! 
tradition  is  unanimous  and  consistent  in  placing  this  cradle,  not  in 
the  East,  in  Bactria,  but  in  the  West,  in  Atropatene  ;  and  not  only 
Pars!  tradition,  but  the  Avesta  itself,  for — 

"  The  third  fact  adduced  is  incorrect  :  the  Avesta  knows  the  North 
and  West  of  Iran  as  well  as  the  East :  the  first  chapter  of  the 
Vendidad,  which  describes  Iran  as  it  was  known  to  the  authors  of 
the  Vendidad,  opens  the  enumeration  of  the  Iranian  regions  by  the 
Erdn-Vej,  washed  by  the  Good  Daitya  (I,  3) ;  now  the  Erdn-Vej  is 
on  the  borders  of  Atropatene,  and  the  Good  Daitya  is  the  Araxes.* 
It  is  equally  familiar  with  the  North,  for  it  cites  Rhagae,  the 
of  the  Greeks,  the  Ray  of  the  moderns,  in  Media." 


1  Etudes  Iramennes,  vol.  i,  pp.  1C— 12. 

*  This  view  is  by  no  means  universally  admitted.     Geiger,  for  instance, 
places  the  Airy  ana   Vaeja,  or  Eran~Vej,  in  the  region  of  the  Pamirs. 


26 

One  piece  or  philological  evidence  is  adduced  by  Darme- 
steter  in  support  of  his  opinion  that  the  language  of  the 
Avesta  is  the  language  of  the  Medes.  The  modern  Persian 
word  for  dog,  sagy  implies,  says  he,1  the  existence  of  an  Old 
Persian  form  saka  (not  actually  occurring  in  the  meagre 
documents  on  wftich  we  depend  for  our  direct  knowledge  of 
the  ancient  language  of  Pars).  Herodotus,  however,  mentions 
(I,  no)  that  in  the  language  of  the  Medes  the  dog  was  called 
<r;raKa,  which  rather  resembles  the  Avestic  word  span  (San- 
skrit svan,  Greek  KVO>I>).  And  it  is  curious  that  this  word,  in 
the  form  ispa,  still  exists  2  in  some  of  the  Persian  dialects,  such 
as  those  of  Qohrud  (near  Kdshan)  and  Natanz.  M.  Clement 
Huart,  who  has  contributed  to  the  Journal 

Huart's  develop-      ,*•,,•  i  /-  •  « 

ment  of  Darme-  Asiatique  3    a    number    or    very    ingenious    and 

steter's  view.       .  .  •  T»       •  t-   i 

interesting  papers  on  various  Persian  dialects, 
such  as  those  of  Yazd,  Siwand,  and  the  curious  Jawiddn-i-Kabir 
(the  principal  work  of  the  heretical  Huruff  sect,4  which  arose 
in  Persia  in  the  fifteenth  century  of  our  era),  has  still  further 
developed  Darmesteter's  views,  and  has  endeavoured  to  show 
that  several  of  the  dialects  spoken  in  remote  and  mountainous 
places  in  Persia  (especially  in  the  West,  i.e.,  in  Media)  are 
descended  from  the  language  of  the  Avesta ;  and  to  these 
dialects  he  proposes  to  apply  the  term  "  Modern  Medic,"  or 

According  to  his  interpretation  of  the  data  contained  in  ch.  i  of  the 
Vendidad,  the  most  western  regions  known  to  the  Avesta  are  Vehrtuina 
(Hyrcania,  the  modern  Gurgan  or  Jurjan),  Rangha  (Rhagae,  or  Ray,  near 
Tihran,  the  modern  capital),  and  Varena  "  the  four-cornered,"  cor- 
responding, according  to  his  view,  to  the  eastern  portion  of  Mazan- 
daran. 

1  Loc.  cit.,  p.  13. 

3  Cy.  my  Year  amongst  the  Persians,  p.  189 ;  Polak's  Persien,  vol.  i, 
p.  265. 

3  J.A.  for  1885,  vol.  vi,  pp.  502-545,  les  Quatrains  de  Bdbd  Tdhir;  ibid, 
for  1888,  vol.  xi,  pp.  298-302,  Note  sur  lepretcndu  Deri  des  Parsis  des  Yezd  , 
ibid.  1889,   xiv,   pp.  238-270,  Notice  d'un  manuscrit  Pehlevi-Musulman ; 
ibid.  1893,  vol.  i,  pp.  241-265,  Le  Dialecte  Persan  de  Siwend. 

4  See  my  article  on  the  Literature  and  Doctrines  of  the  Hurufi  Sect  in  th$ 
J.R.4.S.  for  January,  1898,  pp.  61-94. 


PERSIAN  DIALECTS  27 

"  Pehlevi-Musulman." J  He  remarks  that,  amongst  other 
differences,  the  root  kar-  underlies  the  whole  verb  which 
signifies  "  to  do,"  "  to  make,"  in  the  Avestic  language  ;  while 
in  Old  Persian  the  aorist,  or  imperative,  stern  of  this  verb 
(as  in  Modern  Persian )  is  k un-  ;  and  again  that  the  root  sig- 
nifying "  to  speak,"  "  to  say,"  in  Avestic  is  aoj-,  vach-y  while 
in  Old  Persian  it  is  gaub-.  Now  while  in  Modern  Persian 
(which,  as  we  have  seen,  is  the  lineal  descendant  of  Old 
Persian)  the  verbs  signifying  "to  do,"  "to  say,"  are  kardan 
(imperative  kun]  and  gujtan  (imperative  gu,  ghy)y  in  those 
dialects  which  he  calls  "  Modern  Medic "  the  stem  kar-  is 
preserved  throughout  (aorist  karam  instead  of  kunam^  &c.), 
and  words  denoting  "  speech,"  "  to  speak,"  are  derived  from  a 
root  vdj-  or  some  similar  basis  corresponding  to  the  Avestic 
aoj-y  vach-.  This  test  is  employed  by  M.  Huart  in  classifying 
a  given  dialect  as  "  Medic  "  or  "  Persian."  According  to  this 
ingenious  theory  the  language  of  the  Avesta  is  still  represented 
in  Persia  by  a  number  of  dialects,  such  as  those  used  in  the 
quatrains  of  Baba  T&hir  (beginning  of  the  eleventh  century), 
in  the  *J awidan-i-Kabir  (fifteenth  century),  and,  at  the  present 
day,  in  the  districts  of  Qohrud  and  Siwand,  and  amongst  the 
Zoroastrians  of  Yazd  and  Kirman.  It  is  also  to  be  noted  that 
the  word  for  "  I "  in  the  Talish  dialect  is,  according  to 
Berdsine,2  az,  which  appears  to  be  a  survival  of  the  Avestic 
azem  (Old  Persian  adam}.  It  is  to  be  expected  that  a  fuller 
and  more  exhaustive  study  of  the  dialects  still  spoken  in 
various  parts  of  Persia  (which,  notwithstanding  the  rich 
materials  collected,  and  in  part  published,  by  Zhukovski,3  are 
still  inadequately  known  to  us)  will  throw  more  light  on  this 
question.  Darmesteter,  however,  in  another  work  (Chansons 

1  They  are,  in  fact,  commonly  called  Pahlawi  by  the  Persians,  and  were 
so  as  early  as  the  fourteenth  century  of  our  era — e.g.,  by  Hamdu'llah  Mus- 
tavvfi  of  Qazwin.  Cf.  Polak,  loc.  cit. 

*  Recherches  sur  les  Dialectes  Persans,  Kazan,  1853,  pp.  31,  etseqq. 

3  Materialy  did  izuchcma  Persidskikh  Narechij,  part  i  (Dialects  of 
Kashan,  Vanishun,  Qohrud,  Keshe,  and  Zefre),  St.  Petersburg,  1888. 


28  INTRODUCTORY 

populaire  des  Afghans,  pp.  Ixii-lxv),  has  endeavoured  to  show 
that  the  Pashto  or  Pakhto  language  of  Afghanistan  represents 
the  chief  surviving  descendant  of  the  old  Avestic  tongue,  which 
theory  seems  to  militate  against  the  view  set  forth  in  his  Etudes 
Iraniennes.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  the  two  are  really 
compatible  ;  that  Zoroaster,  of  the  Medic  tribe  of  the  Magians 
(Magush),  brought  his  doctrine  from  Atropatene  (Azarbayjan) 
in  the  extreme  north-west  of  Iran  to  Bactria  in  the  extreme 
north-east,  where  he  achieved  his  first  signal  success  by  con- 
verting King  Vishtaspa  (Gushtasp)  ;  that  the  dialects  of 
Atropatene  and  Bactria,  and,  indeed,  of  all  North  Iran,  were 
very  similar  ;  and  that  in  the  Avesta,  as  suggested  by  De 
Harlez,  the  so-called  Gatha  dialect  represents  the  latter,  and 
the  ordinary  Avestic  of  the  Vendidad  the  former.  All  this, 
however,  is  mere  conjecture,  which  at  best  can  only  be 
regarded  as  a  plausible  hypothesis. 

It  is  not  less  difficult  to  speak   with   certainty  as  to  the 

religion  of  the  Medes  than  as  to  their  language  ;  nay,  in  spite 

of  their  numerous  inscriptions  it  has  not  yet  been 

R!lia8nc"entfthe    decided  whether   or   no    the  Achsemenians  who 

Zoroufeir.      succeeded  them  did  or  did  not  hold  the  faith  of 

Zoroaster,    as    to    whose    personality,    date,    and 

native   land    likewise   the    most  various   opinions    have    been 

emitted.     By  some  the  very  existence  of  a  historical  Zoroaster 

has  been  denied  ;  by  others  his  personality   has  been   found 

clearly  and  sharply  revealed  in  the  Gathas,  which  they  hold  to 

be,  if  not   his  actual   utterances,  at  least   the    words   of  his 

immediate  disciples.     By  some  his  date  has  been  fixed  in  the 

Vedic  period — 1,800,  2,000,  even  6,000  years  before  Christ, 

while  by  others   he   is   placed    in    the   seventh   century    B.C. 

By  some  he  is,  as  we  have  seen,  regarded  as  of  Bactria,  in  the 

extreme  north-east  of  Persia,  by  others  of  Atropatene,  in  the 

extreme    north-west.     So    too  with    the   Avesta,    the   sacred 

scripture  of  his  adherents,    which    Darmesteter  in   his   Tra- 

4i(ction    nouvelle   (dnnales   du  Musee    Gulmet^    vols.    xxi-xxiv, 


DATE  OF  THE  A  VEST  A  29 

Paris,  1892-3)  has  striven  to  drag  down — at  least  in  part — 
from  a  remote  antiquity  even  into  post-Christian  times.  Not 
only  has  opinion  varied  thus  widely  ;  feeling  has  run  high  ; 
nay,  in  the  opinion  of  that  eminent  scholar  and  courageous 
traveller,  M.  HaleVy,  expressed  in  conversation  with  the 
writer,  the  calm  domain  of  Science  has  been  invaded  by  racial 
prejudices  and  national  antipathies.  We  had  been  discussing 
the  views  set  forth  in  Darmesteter's  work  above  mentioned,  at 
that  time  just  published  ;  and  I  had  expressed  surprise  at  the 
very  recent  date  therein  assigned  to  the  Avesta,  and  inquired 
whether  those  numerous  and  eminent  scholars  who  maintained 
its  great  antiquity  had  no  reason  for  their  assertion.  "  Reason 
enough,"  was  the  answer  ;  "  their  hatred  of  the  Semitic  races, 
their  pride  in  their  Aryan  descent.  Loath  to  accord  to  the 
Jews  any  priority  or  excellence  over  the  Aryan  peoples,  they 
belittle  Moses  to  glorify  Zoroaster,  and  with  one  hand  drag 
down  the  Pentateuch  while  with  the  other  they  raise  up 
the  Avesta !  "  Sad  enough,  if  true,  that  this  accursed  racial 
feeling,  responsible  for  so  many  crimes,  should  not  leave  un- 
molested even  these  high  levels  where  passion  should  have  no 
place  ! 

To  enter  these  lists  is  not  for  those  who,  like  the  writer, 
have  devoted  themselves  to  the  literature  and  thought  of 
Muhammadan  times,  a  field  sufficiently  vast  and  sufficiently 
unexplored  to  satisfy  the  most  ambitious  and  the  most 
industrious  ;  preferable,  moreover,  in  this,  that  here  we  "stand 
on  firm  historic  ground,  and  deal  not  with  dates  which  oscillate 
over  centuries  and  scenes  which  swing  from  Bactria  to  Atro- 
patene.  Yet  all  honour  to  those  who  so  courageously  labour  in 
those  arid  fields  of  a  remote  antiquity,  striving  with  infinite 
toil  and  tact  to  bring  history  out  of  legend,  and  order  out  of 
chaos !  From  such  must  we  needs  choose  a  guide  in  forming 
our  views  about  that  time  and  those  events  which,  though 
strongly  appealing  to  our  curiosity,  lie  beyond  the  range  of  our 
own  studies.  Sanest  and  skilfulest  of  such  guides,  trained  in 


30  INTRODUCTORY 

the  profundity  of  the  German  school,  yet  gifted  with  some- 
thing of  that  clearness  as  to  the  issues  and  alternatives  of  every 
question  which  gives  so  great  a  charm  to  French  science,  and 
adding  to  these  that  combination  of  fairness  and  decision  with 
which  we  are  wont  to  credit  the  Anglo-Saxon  genius,  is 
Professor  A.  V.  Williams  Jackson  of  Columbia  University, 
New  York.  In  a  series  of  admirable  papers  published  in  the 
Proceedings  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  the  American 
'Journal  of  Philology,  &c.,  he  has  successively  dealt  with  most 
of  the  difficult  questions  above  alluded  to,  and  with  many 
other  points  connected  with  the  history  and  doctrine  of  Zoro- 
astrianism  ;  and  has  finally  summed  up  his  views  in  a  work,  at 
once  most  scholarly  and  most  readable,  entitled  Zoroaster,  the 
Prophet  of  indent  Iran  (New  York,  1899).  His  principal 
conclusions  are  as  follows  : — 

I.  That  Zoroaster  was  a  perfectly  historical  personage,  a  member 
of  the  Median  tribe  of  the  Magi. 

2.  That  he  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  seventh 

wmiamsTack-    century  before  Christ — that  is,  during  the  dominion  of 

s°n's          the  Medes  and  before  the  rise  of  the  Achaemenian 

conclusions.  ,     ..     ,      . 

power — and  died  about  B.C.  583,  aged  77. 

3.  That  he  was  a  native  of  Western  Persia  (Atropatene  or  Media), 
but  that  his  first  notable  success  was  gained  in  Bactria  (Balkh), 
where  he  succeeded  in  converting  King  Vishtaspa  (Gushtasp). 

4.  That  the  Gathas  (admittedly  the  oldest  portion  of  the  Avesta) 
reflect  with   fidelity  the  substance  of    his  original   preaching  in 
Balkh. 

5.  That  from   Bactria  the  religion  of  Zoroaster  spread  rapidly 
throughout  Persia,  and  was  dominant  in  Pars  (Persis  proper)  under 
the  later ^Achaemenians,  but  that  the  date  of  its  introduction  into  this 
part  of  Iran  and  its  adoption  by  the  people  and  rulers  of  Pars  is 
uncertain. 

Though  these  conclusions  are  not  universally  accepted,  the 
evidence,  in  the  opinion  of  the  writer,  is  strongly  in  their 
favour,  more  particularly  the  evidence  of  native  tradition  in 
the  period  immediately  succeeding  the  Muhammadan  Con- 
quest, which  is  derived  mainly  from  the  tradition  current  in 


THE  CRIME   OF  "  MA  GICIDE  "  }t 

Sasinian    times.      And   it   may   be   remarked  that  since  it  is 
not  the  habit  of  writers  of  this  class  to  understate  facts,  it 

appears  unlikely  that  they  should  concur  in  assign- 
Reasonableness    •  rm  i  i  A  t 
of  these        ing  to  Zoroaster  too  modern  a  date.     As  regards 

the  Medic  origin  of  Zoroastrianism,  Geiger,  who 
is  in  full  accord  with  both  Darmesteter  and  Jackson  on  this 
point,  remarks  that  though  the  language  of  the  Avesta  belongs, 
in  his  opinion,  to  the  north-east  of  Persia  (Bactria),  the  doctrines 
were,  as  all  Parsi  tradition  indicates,  introduced  there  by  Medic 
dthravans,  or  fire-priests,  these  fithravans  being  uniformly  repre- 
sented as  wanderers  and  missionaries  in  the  north-east,  whose 
home  was  in  Ragha  (Ray)  and  Media.  Darmesteter,1  in  this 
connection,  has  called  attention  to  the  interesting  fact  that  the 

word  Moghu  (from  which  we  get  "Magian") 
uMoMhe^enn  onty  occurs  m  one  passage  in  the  Avesta  (Yasna 
'  Ma!vertain  the  xliv>  25)>  in  the  compound  Moghutbish,  "a  hater" 

or  "  injurer  of  the  Magi "  ;  for  it  was  as  Magi  of 
Medic  race,  not  as  dthravans  of  Zoroastrian  faith,  that  they 
were  exposed  to  the  hatred  and  jealousy  of  the  Persians  proper, 
whose  power  succeeded  that  of  the  Medes,  and  whose  supre- 
macy was  threatened  from  time  to  time  in  early  Achaemenian 

days  by  Medic  insurrections,  notably  by  that  of 
Tsmerdes°~  Gaumata  the  Magian  (Magush}^  the  impersonator 

of  Bardiya  (Smerdes)  the  son  of  CyTus^wKom 
Darius  slew,  as  he  himself  relates  in  his  inscription  at  Behistun 
in  the  following  words  : — 

"  Says  Darius  the  King :  Thereafter  was  a  man,  a  Magian,  Gaumata 
by  name ;  from  Pisiyauvada  did  he  arise,  from  a  mountain  there 
named  Arakadris.  In  the  month  of  Viyakhna,  on  the  fourteenth  day, 
then  was  it  that  he  rose.  Thus  did  he  deceive  the  people  [saying], 
'  I  am  Bardiya,  son  of  Cyrus  (Kuru\  brother  of  Cambyses  (Kambu- 
jiya}.'  Thereupon  all  the  people  revolted  against  Cambyses,  thej 
went  over  to  him,  both  Persia  and  Media,  and  likewise  the  other 


1  Translation  of  the  Avcsta  (vol.  i,  pp.  li-lii)  in  the  Sacred  Books  of  the 
East  (Oxford,  1880),- 


31  INTRODUCTORY 

provinces.  He  seized  the  Throne  :  in  the  month  of  Garmapada,  on 
the  ninth  day,  then  was  it  that  he  seized  the  Throne.  Thereupon 
Cambyses  died,  slain  by  his  own  hand. 

"  Says  Darius  the  King  :  This  Throne  which  Gaumata  the  Magian 

took  away  from  Cambyses,  this  Throne  was  from  of  old  in  our  Family. 

So  Gaumata  the  Magian   took  away  from  Cambyses 

Citation  from 

the  inscription  both  Persia  and  Media  and  the  other  provinces,  he 
of  Danus.  appropriated  them  to  himself,  he  was  king. 
"  Says  Darius  the  King :  There  was  no  one,  neither  Persian,  nor 
Mede,  nor  any  one  of  our  family,  who  could  wrest  the  kingdom  from 
this  Gaumata  the  Magian  :  the  people  feared  him,  for  many  people 
did  Bardiya  slay  who  had  known  him  formerly  :  for  this  cause  did 
he  slay  the  people,  '  lest  they  should  recognise  me  [and  know]  that  I 
am  not  Bardiya  the  son  of  Cyrus.'  None  dared  say  aught  concerning 
Gaumata  the  Magian  until  I  came.  Then  I  called  on  Ahuramazda 
for  help  :  Ahuramazda  brought  me  help  :  in  the  month  of  Bagayadish, 
on  the  tenth  day,  then  it  was  that  I  with  a  few  men  slew  that  Gau- 
mata the  Magian,  and  those  who  were  the  foremost  of  his  followers. 
In  Media  is  a  fortress  named  Cikathauvatish,  in  the  district  named 
Nicaya :  there  slew  I  him :  I  took  from  him  the  kingdom  ;  by  the 
Grace  of  Ahuramazda  I  became  King ;  Ahuramazda  gave  to  me  the 
kingdom. 

\N  "  Says  Darius  the  King  :  The  kingdom  which  had  been  alienated 
from  our  house,  that  I  restored  :  in  its  place  did  I  establish  it :  as  [it 
was]  before,  so  I  made  it  :  the  temples  which  Gaumata  the  Magian 
overthrew  I  restored  to  the  people,  the  markets,  and  the  flocks,  and 
the  dwellings  according  to  clans  which  Gaumata  the  Magian  had 
taken  away  from  them.  I  established  the  people  in  their  [former] 
places,  Persia,  Media,  and  the  other  provinces.  Thus  did  I  restore 
that  which  had  been  taken  away  as  it  was  before  :  by  the  Grace  of 
Ahuramazda  have  I  done  this,  I  laboured  until  I  restored  this  our 
clan  to  its  position  as  it  was  before,  so,  by  the  Grace  of  Ahuramazda, 
did  I  restore  our  clan  as  [it  was]  when  Gaumata  the  Magian  had 
not  eaten  it  up.  • 

"  Says  Darius  the  King  :  This  is  what  I  did  when  I  became  king." 

Of  the  nine  rebel  kings  whom,  in  nineteen  battles,  Darius 
defeated  and  took  captive,  Gaumata  the  Magian,  who  "  made 
Persia  (Pars)  revolt,"  was  the  first  but  not  the  only  Mede. 
Fravartish  (Phraortes),  who  "made  Media  revolt,"  and  was 
taken  prisoner  at  Ray,  mutilated,  and  finally  crucified  at 
Hamadan  (Ecbatana,  the  old  Medic  capital),  claimed  to  be  "of 


ORIGIN  OF  THE  IRANIANS  33 

the  race  of  Huvakhshatara  "  (Cyaxares,  the  third  Medic  king 
of  Herodotus),  and  so  did  Chitratakhma,  who  rebelled  in  Sagar- 

tia,  and  was  crucified  at  Arbfl  (Arbira).  We  find, 
0trheCtcnd^c  '*  i$  true'  Medic  generals  and  soldiers  fighting 
supDaer?Jsd  by  loyally  f°r  Darius,  but  nevertheless  between  the 

Mede  and  the  Persian  at  this  time  such  antagonism 
must  have  existed  as  between  Scotch  and  English  in  the 
days  of  the  Edwards.  Almost  the  same  in  race  and  language — 
ojUoyAwrroi  irapa  piicpov —  and  probably  the  same  in  religion, 
the  jealousy  between  Mede  and  Persian  was  at  this  time  a 
powerful  factor  in  history,  and,  as  Darmesteter  says,  the  Magian 
priest  of  Media,  though  respected  and  feared  in  his  priestly 
capacity,  and  even  held  indispensable  for  the  proper  celebration 
of  religious  rites,  was  none  the  less  liable  to  the  hatred  and 
enmity  of  the  southern  Persian. 

As  it  is  the  aim  of  this  book  to  trace  the  developments  of 
post-Muhammadan  literature  and  thought  in  Persia,  or  in  other 

words  the  literary  history  of  the  last  thousand  years, 

Periods  earlier          .   ,  t_    .      f  .... 

thnn  the  Medic  with  only  such   reference  to  earlier  times   as  is 

distinguishable  •   •        ,-  ,  i-  r    i  •         i  • 

in  the  history  of  requisite  for  a  proper  understanding  of  thissumect, 

the  Persian  race.  \       r          .  b      .  .     J 

a  more  detailed  discussion  of  the  ancient  times  of 
which  we  have  been  speaking  would  be  out  of  place.  In  this 
chapter  we  have  gone  back  to  the  beginning  of  the  Medic  power 
(about  B.C.  700),  at  which  point  the  historical  period  may  be 
said  to  commence  ;  but  it  is  possible  to  distinguish,  in  the  dim 
light  of  antiquity,  still  earlier  periods,  as  has  been  done  by 
Spiegel  in  his  excellent  Erdnische  Alterthumskundt  (3  vols., 
Leipzig,  1871-78).  Putting  aside  the  vexed  question  of  an 
original  Aryan  race  spreading  outwards  in  all  directions  from  a 
common  centre,  it  at  least  seems  pretty  certain  that  the 
Indian*  and  Persians  were  once  united  in  a  common  Indo- 
Iranian  race  located  somewhere  in  the  Panjab.  The  pretty 
theory  as  to  the  causes  which  led  to  the  cleavage  of  this  com- 
munity which  was  so  ingeniously  advanced  by  Max  Miiller  J 
1  See  Max  Miiller's  Selected  Essays  (London,  1881),  vol.  ii,  pp.  132-134, 

4 


34  INTRODUCTORY 

is,  I  believe,  generally  abandoned,  but  it  is  so  attractive  that  it 
seems  a  pity  to  pass  it  over. 

Briefly  stated,  this  theory  hinges  upon  the  occurrence  in  the 
Vedas  of  the  Hindus  and  the  Avesta  of  the  Zoroastrians  of 

certain  theological  terms,  which,  though  identical 
Matheo^ers     as    regards    etymology,    are    here    diametrically 

opposed.  Deva  in  Sanskrit  means  "  bright,"  and 
he  Devasy  or  "  Bright  ones,"  are  the  Hindu  gods.  In  the 
Avesta,  on  the  other  hand,  the  daevas  (Modern  Persian  dh] 
are  devils,  and  the  Zoroastrian,  in  his  confession  of  faith, 
solemnly  declares  :  "  I  cease  to  be  a  worshipper  of  the  daevas ;  " 
he  renounces  these  daevas^  devas,  or  Hindu  gods,  and  becomes 
the  servant  of  Ahura  Mazda.  Now  it  is  a  phonetic  law  that 
Persian  h  corresponds  to  Sanskrit  s  (e.g.,  Hind,  whence  we  get 
our  name  for  India,  represents  Sind,  that  being  naturally  the 
part  of  India  best  known  to  the  Persians),  so  the  Ahura  of  the 
Avesta  is  equivalent  to  asura  in  Sanskrit,  which  means  an  evil 
spirit  or  devil.  And  so,  from  these  two  little  words,  Max 
Miiller  conjures  up  a  most  convincing  picture  of  Zoroaster, 
the  reformer  and  prophet,  rising  up  amongst  the  still  united 
Indo-Iranian  community  to  protest  against  the  degradation  of 
a  polytheistic  nature-worship  which  had  gradually  replaced  the 
purer  conceptions  of  an  earlier  time  j  emphasising  his  dis- 
approval by  making  the  gods  of  the  system  he  laboured  to 
overthrow  the  devils  of  his  own  ;  and  finally,  with  his 
faithful  following,  breaking  away  in  an  ancient  hijra  from  the 
stiff-necked  "  worshippers  of  the  daevas  **  to  find  a  new  home 
in  that  more  Western  land  to  which  we  now  give  the  common 
name  of  Persia.  This  theory,  it  may  be  remarked,  depended  in 
great  measure  on  the  Bactrian  hypothesis  of  Zoroaster's  origin, 
which,  based  on  Fargard  I  of  the  Vendidad,  so  long  held  sway, 
especially  in  Germany. 

Concerning  the  composition  of  the  Avesta  we  shall  say 
something  in  another  place  ;  for  the  present  it  is  sufficient  to 
state  that  the  Vendidad  is  that  portion  of  it  which  contains 


GEOGRAPHY  OF  THE  A  VEST  A  35 

the  religious  laws  and  the  mythology — a  sort  of  Zoroastrian 
Pentateuch — and  that  it  is  divided  into  twenty-two  Fargards, 
or  chapters.  Of  these  the  first  describes  the  creations  of 
Ahura  Mazda,  and  the  counter-creations  of  Arira  Mainyu, 
the  Evil  Spirit  (Ahriman),  and  includes  an  enumeration  of  the 
following  sixteen  lands  created  by  the  former  :  ( I )  "  The 
Airy  ana  Vaejo^  by  the  good  river  Dditya  "  (a  mythical  region, 
identified  in  Sasanian  times  with  the  region  of  the  River  Araxes, 
that  is,  with  the  modern  Azarbayjan) ;  (2)  Sughda  (Sogdiana, 
Sughdjj  (3)  A/0«r&(Margiana,  Merv)  ;  (4)  Bdkhdi  (Bactria, 
Balkh);  (5)  Nisaya  (?N«ra<'a,  the  capital  of  Parthia,  the 
modern  Nasa  in  Khurasan,  two  days'  journey  from  Sarakhs 
and  five  from  Merv)  ;  (6)  Haroyu  (Herat)  ;  (7)  Vaekereta 
(identified  with  Kabul  in  the  Pahlawi  commentary)  ;  (8) 
Urva  (identified  with  Tus)  ;  (9)  Vehrkana  (Hyrcania,  the 
modern  Gurgan  or  Jurjan) ;  (10)  Harahwaiti  ('A/>a^wToc)> 
and  (u)  Haetument,  both  in  the  region  of  the  Helmand 
river  ;  (12)  Ragha  (Ray,  'Pcr/cu,  near  the  modern  capital, 
Tihran) ;  (13)  Chakhra  (PShargh  or  Jargh  of  Ibn  Khur- 
dadhbih,1  four  parasangs  from  Bukhara);  (14)  "the  four- 
cornered  Varena  (PElburz  region);  (15)  the  Hapta-Henduy 
or  Seven  Rivers  (the  Panjab)  ;  (16)  "the  land  by  the  floods 
of  the  Rariha,  where  people  live  without  a  head  "  (/.*.,  a  ruler). 
In  this  list  Geiger  and  some  other  scholars  suppose  that  we 
have  an  itinerary  of  the  migrations  of  the  Iranians  on  their 
entry .  into  Persia  after  the  fission  of  the  original  Indo- 
Iranian  community,  which  was  located  in  the  region  of  the 
Pamirs,  whence  the  first  stream  of  migration  flowed  mainly 
westwards  to  Sughd,  Merv,  Balkh,  Nasa,  and  Herat  ;  another 
stream  south  and  south-west  to  the  Panjab,  Kabul,  and  the 
Helmand  region  ;  while  some  adventurous  spirits  continued  the 
westward  migration  as  far  as  Gurgan  and  Ray.  But  it  is  doubtful 
if  much  stress  can  be  laid  on  the  order  observed  in  this 

1  Ed.  de  Goeje  (vol.  vi  of  Bibl.  Geog.  Arab.),  pp.  25,  203. 


36  INTRODUCTORY 

enumeration,  that  order  being  in  any  case  almost  indefensible 
(even  excluding  all  doubtful  identifications)  on  geographical 
grounds.  And  it  seems  at  least  possible  that  it  may  represent 
the  conquests  of  the  Zoroastrian  faith  rather  than  of  the 
Iranian  people,  which  hypothesis  would  be  much  strengthened 
if  the  identification  of  the  Airyana  Vaejo  with  Atropatene 
(Azarbayjan)  could  be  established  more  surely  :  we  should 
then  have  a  fairly  clear  confirmation  of  that  theory  which  we 
regarded  as  most  probable  :  to  wit,  a  religion  having  its  source 
and  home  in  the  extreme  north-west,  but  making  its  first  con- 
quests in  the  extreme  north-east.  Did  we  need  any  proof 
that  a  prophet  is  often  without  honour  in  his  own  country, 
the  history  of  Islam  would  supply  it,  and  Balkh  may  well  have 
been  the  Medina  of  the  Zoroastrian  faith. 

Another  period,  subsequent  alike  to  the  Indo-Iranian  and  the 

primitive  Iranian  epochs,  has  been  distinguished  and  discussed 

with  care  and  acumen  by  Spiegel,1    who  places 

Period  of  .... 

Assyrian  in-  its  beginning  about  B.C.  1000,  namely,  the  period 
of  Assyrian  influence — an  influence  salient  to  all 
eyes  in  the  sculptures  and  inscriptions  of  the  Achaemenians, 
and  discernible  also,  as  Spiegel  has  shown,  in  many  Persian 
myths,  legends,  and  doctrines  reflecting  a  Semitic  rather  than 
an  Aryan  tradition.  It  is  a  remarkable  thing  how  great 
at  all  periods  of  history  has  been  Semitic  influence  on 
Persia  ;  Arabian  in  the  late  Sasanian  and  Muhammadan  time  ; 
Aramaic  in  earlier  Sasanian  and  later  Parthian  days  ;  Assyrian 
at  a  yet  more  ancient  epoch.  And  indeed  this  fact  can  scarcely 
be  insisted  upon  too  strongly;  for  the  study  of  Persian  has 
suffered  from  nothing  so  much  as  from  the  purely  philological 
view  which  regards  mere  linguistic  and  racial  affinities  as 
infinitely  more  important  and  significant  than  the  much  deeper 
and  more  potent  influences  of  literary  and  religious  contact. 

1  Erdnische  Alterlhumskunde,  vol.  i,  pp.  446-485,  "  Beginn  der 
eranischen  Selbstandigkeit.  Die  altesten  Beruhrungen  mit  den 
Semiten." 


SEMTTIC  INFLUENCES  37 

Greek  is  far  more  widely  studied  in  England  than  Hebrew,  but 
for  the  understanding  of  the  motives  and  conduct  of  a  Scottish 
Covenanter  or  English  Puritan,  not  to  mention  Milton's  verse, 
a  knowledge  of  the  Bible  is  at  least  as  necessary  as  a  familiarity 
with  the  Classics ;  and  in  Persia,  where  both  literary  and 
religious  influences  have  generally  been  in  large  measure 
Semitic,  the  same  holds  good  to  a  much  greater  extent.  If, 
as  an  adjunct  to  my  equipment  for  the  study  of  Persian  thought 
and  literature,  I  were  offered  my  choice  between  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  the  Semitic  and  the  Aryan  languages,  I  should, 
from  this  point  of  view  alone,  unhesitatingly  choose  the 
former.  A  good  knowledge  of  the  Aramaic  languages  is 
essential  for  the  study  of  Pahlawi,  and  a  fruitful  investigation  of 
the  post-Muhammadan  literature  and  thought  of  Persia  is 
impossible  without  a  wide  acquaintance  with  Arabic  books  ; 
while  in  both  these  fields  a  knowledge  of  Sanskrit  is  practi- 
cally of  very  little  use,  and  even  in  the  interpretation  of  the 
Avesta  it  must  be  employed  with  some  reserve  and  due  regard 
to  the  Pahlawi  tradition. 

In  concluding  this  introductory  chapter  it  may  be  well  to 
recapitulate  the  periods  in  Persian  history  of  which 

Recapitulation.  J 

we  have  spoken. 
I.  The  Indo-Iranian  period. 
II.  The  early  Irdnian  period. 

III.  The  period  of  Assyrian  influence  (B.C.  looo).1 

IV.  The  Medic  period  (B.C.  700). 

V.  The  Old  Persian  (Achaemenian)  period  (B.C.  550). 
VI.  Interregnum,  from  the  Invasion  of  Alexander  to  the 

Sasanian  Restoration  (B.C.  330 — A.D.  226). 
VII.  The  Sasanian  period  (A.D.  226-652). 
VIII.  The  Muhammadan  period,  extending  from  the  fall  of 

the  Sasanian  Dynasty  to  the  present  day. 
It  is  with  the  last  of  these  periods  that  we  are  principally 

1  Or  even  earlier.    See  p.  20,  supra. 


38  INTRODUCTORY 

concerned,  and,  as  will  in  due  time  appear,  it  comprises 
numerous  important  subdivisions.  Before  approaching  it,  how- 
ever, something  more  remains  to  be  said  of  the  older  Persian 
literature  and  its  discovery,  and  sundry  other  matters  germane 
thereto,  which  will  be  discussed  in  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER   II 

THE  DISCOVERY  AND  INTERPRETATION  OF  THE  INSCRIPTIONS 
AND  DOCUMENTS  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA,  WITH  OTHER 
PHILOLOGICAL  MATTER. 

THE  language  of  Modern,  that  is  to  say  of  Post-Muham- 
madan,  Persia,  was  naturally,  for  practical  reasons,  an  object  of 

interest  and  study  in  Europe  long  before  any 
^development  serious  attempt  was  made  to  solve  the  enigmas 
studfesuTEurope  presented  by  the  three  ancient  languages  of  which 

this  chapter  will  briefly  trace  the  discovery  and 
decipherment  :  to  wit,  the  Old  Persian  of  the  Achaemenian 
inscriptions,  the  Avestic  idiom,  and  the  Pahlawi  of  Sasanian 
times.  The  study  of  Modern  Persian,  again,  was  preceded 
by  that  of  Arabic  j  which,  as  the  vehicle  whereby  the 
Philosophy  of  the  Greeks,  especially  of  Aristotle,  first 
became  clearly  known  to  Western  Europe,  commanded 
in  a  far  higher  degree  the  attention  and  interest  of  men 
of  learning.  The  first  translations  from  the  Arabic  into 

European  languages    were    made    about    the    be- 

Twelfth  century.       .        .r  ° 

ginning  or  the  twelfth  century  or  our  era  by 
Jews  and  Moors  converted  to  Christianity,1  who  were 

1  A  great  deal  of  interesting  information  concerning  the  early  Oriental- 
ists is  contained  in  the  Gallia  Orientalis  of  Paul  Colomes  (Opera,  Hamburg, 
1709,  pp.  1-272),  and  also  in  the  excellent  Esquisse  Historique  prefixed  by 
Gustave  Dugat  to  his  useful  Histoire  des  Orientalistcs  de  I'Europe  du  XII 
au  XIXe  siecle  (Paris,  1868),  to  which  I  am  largely  indebted  in  this  portion 


40      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

soon  followed  by  native  Europeans,  such  as  Gerard  of 
Cremona  (b.  A.D.  1114);  Albertus  Magnus  (b.  A.D.  1193), 
who,  dressed  as  an  Arab,  expounded  at  Paris  the  teachings  of 
Aristotle  from  the  works  of  al-Fdrabi,  Ibn  Sina  ( Avicenna),  and 
al-Ghazzali  ;  and  Michael  Scot,  who  appears  to  have  studied 

Arabic  at  Toledo  in  A.D.   1217.     Roger  Bacon 
™ntwnth      anc*    Raymond    Lull    (thirteenth    century)    also 

called  attention  to  the  importance,  for  philosophic 
and  scientific  purposes,  of  a  study  of  Oriental  languages.  In 

A.D.  1311-1312  it  was  ordained  by  Pope  Clement 
FceStuenth      the  Fifth  that  Professorships  of  Hebrew,  Chaldean, 

and  Arabic  should  be  established  at  Rome,  Paris, 
Bologna,  Oxford  and  Salamanca,  whose  teaching,  however,  was 
soon  afterwards  (A.D.  1325)  placed  by  the  Church  under  a 
rigorous  supervision,  lest  it  should  tend  to  endanger  Christian 
orthodoxy.  At  each  of  these  five  seats  of  learning  there  were 
to  be  two  professors,  paid  by  the  State  or  the  Church,  who  were 
to  make  faithful  Latin  translations  of  the  principal  works  written 
in  these  languages,  and  to  train  their  pupils  to  speak  them 
sufficiently  well  for  missionary  purposes. 

It  does  not  appear,  however,  that  these  laudable  proposals 
met  at  first  with  any  great  measure  of  success,  or  that  much 

was  actually  done  to  further  the  study  of  Arabic 

c«to£h       unti^ the  estoblishment  of  the  College  de  France 

in  A.D.  1530  by  Francis  the  Fifth.     Armegand  of 

Montpellier1  had  already,  in  A.D.  1274,  translated  portions  of 

the   works  of  Avicenna   and    Averroes  into  Latin,  but  that 

remarkable    scholar    and    traveller,    Guillaume    Postel 2    may, 

of  my  subject.  See  also  M.  Jourdain's  Recherches  critiques  sur  I'dge  et 
I'origine  des  traductions  latines  d'Aristote  et  sur  les  commentaries  grecs  ou 
arabes  employes  par  les  doctcurs  scholasiiques. 

1  This  is  the  first  biography  given  in  the  Gallia  Orientalis.    "  Gallorum 
primus,"  says  the  author,  "quod  sciam,  qui  Linguas  Orientales  ab  anno 
millesimo  ducentesimo  excoluerit,  fuit  Armegandus  Blasii,  Doctor  Medicus, 
regnante  Philippe,  Ludovici  cognomine  Sancti  filio." 

2  He  died  in   1581  at  the  age  of  95  or  96.    See  Gallia  Orientalis, 
PP.  59-66- 


ARABIC  CHAIRS  FOUNDED  41 

according  to  M.  Dugat,  be  called  "  the  first  French  Orien- 
talist "  ;  and  he,  apparently,  was  the  first  who  caused  Arabic 
types  to  be  cut.  In  A.D.  1587  Henry  the  Third  founded  an 
Arabic  chair  at  the  College  de  France,  and  a  few  years  subse- 
quently Savary  de  Breves,  who  is  said  to  have  had  a  fine  taste  in 
Oriental  literature,  and  who  later  brought  to  Paris  excellent 
founts  of  type  which  he  had  caused  to  be  engraved  in  the  East, 
was  appointed  French  Ambassador  at  Constantinople.  On  his 
death  these  founts  of  type  (Arabic,  Syriac,  Persian,  Armenian, 
and  ^Ethiopic),  together  with  his  Arabic,  Turkish,  Persian,  and 
Syriac  MSS.,  were  bought  by  Louis  the  Thirteenth  (assisted 
financially  by  the  clergy),  and  passed  into  the  possession  of  the 
Imprimerie  Royale. 

The  full  development  of  Oriental  studies  in  Europe,  how- 
ever, may  be  said  to  date  from  the  seventeenth  century,  since 

which  epoch  progress  has  been  steady  and  con- 
^nuin?111     tinuous.     This    century    saw,    for    example,    in 

England  the  establishment,  by  Sir  Thomas  Adams 
and  Archbishop  Laud  respectively,  of  Arabic  chairs  at  both 
Cambridge  (A.D.  1632)  and  Oxford  (A.D.  1636),  of  which  the 
latter  was  filled  by  the  illustrious  Pococke  and  the  former 
by  the  equally  illustrious  Abraham  Wheelock,  who,  with  the 
teaching  of  Arabic  and  Anglo-Saxon,  combined  the  function  of 

University  Librarian.     Amongst   his   pupils   was 

that  distinguished  scholar,  Thomas  Hyde,  after- 
wards Professor  of  both  the  Hebrew  and  the  Arabic  lan- 
guages at  Oxford,  whose  work  on  the  History  of  the  Religion 
of  the  jfncient  Persians,  Parthians,  and  Medes^  published 
in  1700,  little  more  than  a  year  before  his  death,1  may  be 
taken  as  representing  the  high-water-mark  of  knowledge  on 
this  subject  at  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century,  and,  indeed, 

1  He  died  on  February  18,  1702,  having  resigned  the  Librarianship  of 
the  Bodleian  in  April,  1701.  The  second  edition  of  his  Veterum  Persarum 
.  .  .  Religionis  Historia,  published  in  1760,  is  that  to  which  reference  is 
here  made. 


42      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

until  the  publication  of  Anquetil  du  Perron's  epoch-making 
memoirs  (1763-1771),  of  which  we  shall  shortly  have  to  speak. 
A  brief  statement,  therefore,  of  Hyde's  views  may  appropriately 
form  the  starting-point  of  this  survey  ;  for  his  industry,  his 
scholarship,  and  his  linguistic  attainments,  added  to  the  facilities 
which  he  enjoyed  as  Librarian  of  the  Bodleian,  rendered  his 
work  as  complete  and  comprehensive  an  account  of  the  ancient 
Persian  religion  as  was  possible  with  the  materials  then  available. 
Hyde  not  only  used  the  works  of  his  predecessors,  such  as 
Barnaby  de  Brisson's  De  Regio  Persarum  'Principatu  Libri  Tres 
(Paris,  1606) — a  book  based  entirely  on  the  statements  of 
Greek  and  Latin  authors, — Henry  Lord's  Religion  of  the 
Par  sees  z  (1630),  Sanson's  T)e  hodierno  statu  Persia  (1683), 
and  the  narratives  of  the  travellers  Pedro  Texeira  (1604),  Pere 
Gabriel  de  Chinon  (1608-1650),  Tavernier  (1629-1675), 
Olearius  (1637-1638),  Thevenot  (1664-1667),  Chardin 
(1665-1677),  Petits  de  la  Croix  (1674-1676),  and  Samuel 
Flower  (1667),  but  also  a  number  of  Arabic,  Persian,  Turkish, 
Hebrew,  and  Syriac  manuscripts,  which  he  manipulated  with  a 
skill  deserving  of  the  highest  praise  ;  and  the  knowledge  thus 
acquired  was  supplemented  in  some  cases  by  information 
verbally  obtained  by  his  friends  in  India  from  the  Parsees. 
His  work,  in  short,  is  a  monument  of  erudition,  most  remark- 
able wher*  we  consider  the  time  at  which  it  was  written  and 
the  few  facilities  then  existing  for  research  of  this  kind  ;  and  in 
some  cases  his  acumen  anticipated  discoveries  not  confirmed 'till 
a  much  later  date.  Thus  he  recognised  the  name  of  Media  in 

1  The  full  title  of  this  tract  (for  it  comprises  but  53  pages)  is  The 
Religion  of  tlie  Persees,  as  it  was  Compiled  from  a  Booke  of  theirs,  con- 
tayning  the  Forme  of  their  Worshippe,  written  in  the  Persian  Character, 
and  by  them  called  their  Zundavastaw,  wherein  is  shewed  the  Superstitious 
Ceremonies  used  amongst  them,  more  especially  their  Idolatrous  Worshippe  of 
Fire.  The  author's  information  was  derived  from  a  Parsi  of  Surat  "  whose 
long  employment,  in  the  Companies  service,  had  brought  him  to  a 
mediocrity  in  the  English  tongue."  The  book  contains  but  meagre  inform- 
ation concerning  the  Zoroastrian  tenets,  and  indicates  not  even  an  indirect 
knowledge  of  the  contents  of  the  Avesta. 


THOMAS  HYDE  43 

the  Arabic  Mah  prefixed  to  certain  place-names  (p.  424),  was 
aware  ot  the  existence  amongst  the  Zoroastrians  of  Persia  of  a 
peculiar  "gabri"  dialect  (pp.  364,  429),  knew  the  Huriifi  sect 
as  a  revived  form  of  Manichaeanism  (p.  283),  made  free  use  of 
the  rare  Arabic  translation  of  the  Shdh-nama  of  al-Bundan,  and 
was  acquainted  with  the  so-called  Zend  character,1  and  with 
such  later  Parsi  writings  as  the  Zaratusht-nama,  the  Sad-dar 
(of  which  he  gives  a  complete  Latin  translation),  and  the 
Persian  translation  of  the  Book  of  Arda  Viraf. 

On  the  other  hand  he  had  no  knowledge  whatever  of  the 

Avestic    or    Pahlawi    languages,    entirely   misunderstood    the 

meaning  of  the  term   Zend  Avesta  or  Avesta  va 

knyodwi£dgen°f     Zwdt  an£l  endeavoured   to   prove    that   the   Old 
athn£nMdLnte    Persian  inscriptions  were  not  writing  at  all,  but 

lan!e«[a?of  mere  architectural  ornamentation.  Anquetil  du 
Perron  at  the  end  of  his  Discours  Prtliminaire 
(pp.  cccclxxxix-ccccxcviii)  is  at  some  pains  to  prove  the 
first  of  these  statements,  and  points  out  that  throughout  Hyde's 
work  the  Zend  character  merely  serves  to  cloak  Persian 
sentences  cited  from  late  Parsi  writings.  But  in  fact  proof  is 
unnecessary,  for  Hyde  had  in  his  own  possession  a  MS.  of  part 
of  the  Avesta,  and  was  also  acquainted  with  the  MS.  of  the 
Tasna  presented  to  Emmanuel  College,  Cambridge,  by  an 
English  merchant  named  Moody  about  the  middle  of  the 
seventeenth  century  ; a  and  is  quite  certain  that  he  would 

x  It  would  appear  from  a  remark  of  Sir  W.  Jones  in  the  Lettre  a. 
Monsieur  A  .  .  .  du  P  .  .  .  hereafter  cited  (p.  602),  that  Dr.  Hyde  caused 
the  "  Zend  "  characters  employed  in  his  book  to  be  cast  for  his  own  use. 
The  fount  is  an  excellent  one — much  more  artistic  than  that  used  in  the 
latest  edition  of  the  Avesta  (Geldner's). 

2  See  Hyde,  op.  laud.,  p.  344  ad  calc.  The  Emmanuel  MS.  now  bears 
the  class-mark  3.  2.  6.,  and  contains  the  following  inscription  in  English : 
"This  Booke  is  called  Ejessney,  written  in  the  language  Jenwista,  and 
containes  ye  Religion  of  ye  Antient  Parsyes."  A  note  in  German  on  a  loose 
sheet  of  paper  describes  it  as  a  copy  of  the  Yasna,  not  quite  complete, 
ending  ch.  1.  2  (Westergaard),  and  lacking  the  last  quarter  ;  not  dated  ; 
probably  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century.  Though  not  old,  it  is  accu- 


44      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

have  made  use  of  documents  so  important  for  his  purpose  had 
he  been  able  to  read  them.  Now  since  he  was  conversant 
with  the  character  in  which  they  were  written,  and  even,  as  we 
have  seen,  employed  it  in  his  work,  it  is  evident  that  he  could 
make  nothing  whatever  of  the  language.  As  regards  the  title 
of  the  sacred  book  of  the  Zoroastrians,  he  regarded  it  as 
"exotic  and  hybrid,"  supposing  that  it  consisted  of  the  Arabic 
word  Zend  (an  implement  for  kindling  fire),  and  the  Hebrew- 
Chaldaean  eshta^^fire"  (op.  laud.,^.  335  et  seqq.}.  Lastly,  he 
regarded  the  Old  Persian  inscriptions  as  trifles,  hardly  worthy 
of  attention  but  for  the  curiosity  already  aroused  by  them 
(p.  546),  and  declared  in  the  most  positive  fashion  that  they 
were  not  Old  Persian  (p.  547),  and,  indeed,  not  inscriptions  at 
all,  but  mere  fanciful  designs  of  the  original  architect  (pp. 
556-557).  In  the  adjacent  Pahlawi  inscriptions  of  Naqsh-i- 
Rajab  he  equally  refuses  to  recognise  any  form  of  Persian  script. 
"As  regards  Nos.  i  and  4"  (the  Sdsdnian  Pahlawi),  he  says, 
"  I  assert  that  these  characters  cannot  be  ancient  Persian,  which 
are  perceived,  in  their  ancient  books,  which  I  myself  possess,  to 
differ  from  them  toto  cce/o"  (p.  548.) 

Such,    then,    was   the   state    of  knowledge  in    1754.     No 

further  advance  had   been    made   towards  the    understanding 

of  the    Avesta,  though    several    new   MSS.    had 

Anquetil  du 

Perron  (1754-  been  brought  to  England  :  to  wit,  a  MS.  of  the 
Vendidad  obtained  from  the  Parsis  of  India  by 
George  Bourchier  (or  Bowcher)  in  1718,  conveyed  to 
England  by  Richard  Cobbe  in  1723,  and  presented  to  the 
Bodleian,  where  it  is  now  preserved  (BoDL.  OR.  321)  ;  and 
two  MSS.  of  the  Yasna  bought  at  Surat  by  Frazer,  who  also 
endeavoured,  but  vainly,  to  induce  the  Zoroastrian  priests  to 
teach  him  the  Avestic  and  Pahlawi  languages.  But  in  the 

rately  written  from  a  good  MS.  It  agrees  with  the  best  MSS.,  but  not 
entirely  with  any  ;  most  closely  with  K.  II.  The  orthography  is  very 
consistent,  and  it  is  important  for  critical  purposes,  being  an  independent 
codex. 


ANQUETIL  DU  PERRON  45 

year  above  mentioned  a  facsimile  of  four  leaves  of  the  Bodleian 
MS.  of  the  Vendidad  fell  into  the  hands  of  a  young  Frenchman, 
Anquetil  du  Perron,  then  not  much  more  than  twenty  years  of 
age  ;  and  he,  with  an  impulsiveness  and  devotion  to  science 
truly  Gallic,  at  once  resolved  to  win  for  his  country  the  glory 
of  wresting  from  the  suspicious  priesthood  who  guarded  them 
the  keys  to  these  hidden  secrets  of  an  old-world  faith,  and  of 
laying  before  the  learned  world  a  complete  account  of  the 
Zoroastrian  doctrines,  based,  not  on  the  statements  of  non- 
Zoroastrian  or  even  modern  Parsi  writers,  but  on  the  actual 
testimony  of  the  ancient  Scriptures  themselves.  So  eager  was 
his  haste  that,  though  assured  of  help  and  pecuniary  assistance 
in  his  projected  journey  to  India,  his  impatience  to  begin  his 
work  impelled  him  to  enlist  as  a  common  soldier  of  the  French 
East  India  Company  ;  so  firm  was  his  purpose  and  so  steadfast 
his  resolve  that,  in  face  of  every  kind  of  difficulty  and  dis- 
couragement, suffering,  sickness,  opposition,  perils  by  sea  and 
perils  of  war,  he  persevered  for  seven  years  and  a  half,  until, 
on  March  15,  1762,  having  at  length  regained  Paris  after  his 
long  and  adventurous  exile,  he  deposited  his  precious  manu- 
scripts, the  fruits  of  his  incredible  labours,  in  the  Bibliotheque 
du  Roi.  Yet  still  nine  years'  laborious,  but  now  tranquil, 
work  lay  before  him  ere,  in  1771,  he  was  able  to  offer  to  the 
world  the  assured  and  final  outcome  of  his  endeavour — a  great 
work  in  three  volumes  bearing  the  following  cumbrous  title  : 
Zend-Avesta,  otevrage  de  Zoroastre,  cantenant  les  idees  theologiques^ 
physiques^  et  morales  de  ce  legislateur^  les  ceremonies  du  culte 
religieux  quil  a  etabli^  et  plusieurs  traits  importans  relatifs  a 
t'ancienne  histoire  des  Terses^  traduit  en  Fran$ais  sur  ^original 
Zend  avec  des  Remarques :  et  accompagnl  de  plusieurs  traites 
propres  a  eclaircir  les  matieres  qui  en  sont  robjet.  This  work 
was  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word  epoch-making,  or,  as  the 
Germans  say,  "  bahn-brechend."  Anquetil  completely  accom- 
plished the  great  task  he  had  set  himself.  Much  remained  to 
be  done  in  detail  by  his  successors,  many  inaccuracies  are 


46      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

naturally  to  be  found  in  his  work  ; *  yet  we  may  fairly  say 
that  to  him  in  chief  belongs  the  merit  of  those  discoveries  as 
to  the  religion  and  language  of  the  ancient  Zoroastrians  from 
which  so  many  important  results,  literary,  philological,  ethno- 
logical, and  philosophical,  have  since  been  drawn. 

Of  the  details  of  Anquetil's  journey  this  is  hardly  the  place 
to  speak.     They  are  narrated  with  great   minuteness  in   the 

first  volume  of  his  work  (pp.  i-cccclxxviii),  and 
Anvqenetures?d~    incite,  in  truth,  a  mass  of  purely  personal  details 

which  might,  perhaps,  as  well  have  been  omitted, 
and  which  certainly  rendered  the  book  an  easier  target  for  the 
derision  to  which  it  was  destined  shortly  to  be  exposed. 
Briefly,  Anquetil  quitted  Paris  with  his  "  petit  equipage " 
(containing,  except  for  a  few  books,  only  two  shirts,  two 
handkerchiefs  and  a  pair  of  socks),  without  the  knowledge  or 
any  one  except  his  brother,  who  was  bound  to  secrecy,  on 
November  7,  1754,  and  marched  with  his  company — men 
little  to  his  taste,  whom  he  speaks  of  as  "ces  brutaux" — to 
L'Orient,  which  he  reached  on  the  i6th.  Here  he  was 
informed  that  the  King  had  been  graciously  pleased  to  grant 
him  an  allowance  of  five  hundred  livres,  and  he  was  further 
accorded  a  first-class  passage  to  India.  Sailing  from  L'Orient 
on  February  7,  1755,  he  reached  Pondichery  on  August  gth  ot 
the  same  year,  and  there  was  hospitably  received  by  M. 
Goupil,  the  Commandant  of  the  troops.  He  at  once  set 
himself  to  learn  Persian,  which  afterwards  served  as  the  means 
of  communication  between  himself  and  the  Zoroastrian  priests. 
More  than  three  years  elapsed,  however,  ere  he  reached  Surat 
(May  i,  1758),  shortly  before  it  passed  into  the  hands  of  the 
English  (March,  1759).  This  long  delay  in  the  prosecution 
of  his  plan  was  caused,  apparently,  partly  by  his  insatiable 
curiosity  as  to  the  antiquities,  religions,  customs,  and  languages 
of  India  (for  his  original  scheme  extended  far  beyond  what 

1  For  an  example,  see  Haug'a  Essays  on   the  Parses,  edited  by  West 

(ihird  edition,  London,  1884),  p.  24. 


ANQUETIL  DU  PERRON  47 

immediately  concerned  the  Zoroastrian  religion),  partly  by  the 
political  complications  of  that  time.  After  numerous  adven- 
tures, however,  he  ultimately  arrived  at  Surat  on  the  date 
indicated  above.  He  at  once  put  himself  in  relation  with  two 
Parsi  dasturs,  or  priests,  named  Darab  and  Ka'us,  from  whom, 
three  months  later,  he  received,  after  many  vexatious  delays 
and  attempts  at  extortion  and  evasion,  a  professedly  complete 
copy  of  the  Vendidad.  Fully  aware  of  the  necessity  for 
caution,  he  succeeded  in  borrowing  from  another  dastur^ 
Manuchihrji  (who,  owing  to  religious  differences,  was  not  on 
terms  of  intercourse  with  Darab  and  Ka'us)  another  good  and 
ancient  manuscript  of  the  same  work  ;  and,  on  collating  this 
with  the  other,  he  was  not  long  in  discovering  that  his  two 
dasturs  had  deliberately  supplied  him  with  a  defective  copy. 
They,  on  being  convicted  of  this  fraud,  became  at  once  more 
communicative,  and  less  disposed  to  attempt  any  further 
imposition,  and  furnished  him  with  other  works,  such  as  the 
Persian  Story  of  Sanjan  (of  which  Anquetil  gives  an  abstract  at 
pp.  cccxviii-cccxxiv  of  his  work),  an  account  of  the  descent 
of  all  copies  of  the  Vendidad  and  its  Pahlawi  commentary 
preserved  in  India  from  a  Persian  original  brought  thither 
from  Sistan  by  a  dastur  named  Ardashir  about  the  fourteenth 
century  of  our  era,  and  a  further  account  of  the  relations 
maintained  from  time  to  time  by  the  Zoroastrians  of  Persia 
with  those  of  India. 

On  March  24,  1759,  Anquetil  completed  his  translation  of 

the  Pahlawi-Persian  vocabulary,  and  six  days  later  began  the 

translation  of  the  Vendidad,  which,  together  with 

Anquetil's  work.      ,  11      •  c    ^u  Ayrcc1       u        c    •  L     j 

the  collation  of  the  two  Mbo.,  he  finished  on 
June  1 6th  of  the  same  year.  A  severe  illness,  followed 
by  a  savage  attack  by  a  compatriot,  interrupted  his  work 
for  five  months,  and  it  was  not  till  November  2Oth  that  he 
was  able  to  continue  his  labours  with  the  help  of  the  dastur 
Darab.  During  this  time  he  received  much  help  and  friendly 
protection  from  the  English,  notably  from  Mr.  Spencer,  of 


48      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

whom  he  speaks  in  the  highest  terms  (p.  cccxlvi),  and  Mr 
Erskine.  Having  completed  the  translation  of  the  Yasna, 
Vhpered^  and  Vendidad,  the  Pahlawi  Bundahish,  the  Si-ruza, 
Rivdyats,  &c.,  and  visited  the  sacred  fire  in  its  temple,  and  the 
dakhmas^  or  "  towers  of  silence,"  Anquetil,  again  attacked  by 
illness,  and  fearful  of  risking  the  loss  of  the  precious  harvest  of 
his  labours,  resolved  to  renounce  his  further  projects  of  travel, 
which  included  a  journey  to  China.  Again  assisted  by  the 
English,  to  whom,  notwithstanding  the  state  of  war  which 
existed  between  his  country  and  theirs,  he  did  not  fear  to 
appeal,  knowing  them,  as  he  says,  "genereux  quand  on  les 
prend  par  un  certain  cote"  (p.  ccccxxxi),  he  sailed  from  Surat 
to  Bombay,  where,  after,  a  sojourn  of  more  than  a  month,  he 
shipped  himself  and  his  precious  manuscripts  (180  in  number, 
enumerated  in  detail  at  pp.  dxxix-dxli  of  the  first  volume  or 
his  work)  on  board  the  Bristol  on.  April  28,  1761,  and  arrived 
at  Portsmouth  on  November  iyth  of  the  same  year.  There 
he  was  compelled,  greatly  to  his  displeasure,  to  leave  his 
manuscripts  in  the  custom-house,  while  he  himself  was  sent 
with  other  French  prisoners  to  Wickham.  As,  however,  he 
was  not  a  prisoner  of  war  (being,  indeed,  under  English 
protection),  permission  was  soon  accorded  him  to  return  to 
France ;  but,  eagerly  as  he  desired  to  see  his  native  country 
after  so  long  an  absence,  and,  above  all,  to  secure  the  safety  of 
those  precious  and  hardly-won  documents  which  still  chiefly 
occupied  his  thoughts,  he  would  not  quit  this  country  without 
a  brief  visit  to  Oxford,  and  a  hasty  inspection  of  the  Avestic 
manuscripts  there  preserved.  "Je  d^clarai  net,"  he  says 
(p.  ccccliv),  "  que  je  ne  quitterais  pas  1'Angleterre  sans  avoir 
vu  Oxford,  puis  qu'on  m'y  avait  retenu  prisonnier  centre  le 
droit  des  gens.  Le  d£sir  de  comparer  mes  manuscrits  avec 
ceux  de  cette  c£lebre  Universite  n'avait  pas  peu  ajoute  aux 
raisons  qui  m'avaient  comme  forc£  de  prendre,  pour  revenir  en 
Europe,  la  voie  Anglaise."  Well  furnished  with  letters  or 
introduction,  he  arrived  at  Oxford  on  January  17,  1762, 


S7R    WILLIAM  JONES  49 

whence,  after  a  stay  of  two  days,  he  returned,  by  way  of 
Wickham,  Portsmouth,  and  London,  to  Gravesend,  where  he 
embarked  for  Ostend  on  February  I4th.  He  finally  reached 
Paris  on  March  14,  1762,  and  on  the  following  day  at  length 
deposited  his  manuscripts  at  the  Bibliotheque  du  Roi. 

The  appearance  of  Anquetil's  work  in  1771  was  far  from 

at   once   convincing  the  whole   learned  world  of   the   great 

services  which  he  had  rendered   to  science.     In 

Reception  of          ,  /-      >  •    i  i     /-  1-1 

Anquetudu      place  of  the  wisdom  expected   from  a  sage  like 

Perron's  work.      _  .....  , 

Zoroaster,  who,  even  in  classical  times,  enjoyed 
so  great  a  reputation  for  profound  philosophic  thought,  the 
curious  and  the  learned  were  confronted  with  what  appeared 
to  them  to  be  a  farrago  of  puerile  fables,  tedious  formulae, 
wearisome  repetitions,  and  grotesque  prescriptions.  The 

general  disappointment  (which,  indeed,  Anquetil 
^jS*11  had  himself  foreseen  and  foretold,  pp.  i-ii), 

found  its  most  ferocious  expression  in  the  famous 
letter  of  Sir  William  Jones,  at  that  time  a  young  graduate  of 
Oxford.1  This  letter,  written  in  French  on  the  model  of 
Voltaire,  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  the  fourth  volume 
(pp.  583-613)  of  his  works  (London,  1799).  It  was  penned 
in  1771,  the  year  in  which  Anquetil's  work  appeared,  and  is 
equally  remarkable  for  the  vigour  and  grace  of  its  style,  and 
the  deplorable  violence  and  injustice  of  its  contents.  The 
writer's  fastidious  taste  was  offended  by  Anquetil's  prolixity 
and  lack  of  style  ;  while  his  anger  was  kindled  by  the  some- 
what egotistic  strain  which,  it  must  be  admitted,  runs  through 
the  narrative  portion  of  his  work,  and  by  certain  of  his  reflec- 
tions on  the  English  in  general  and  the  learned  doctors  of 
Oxford  in  particular  ;  and  he  suffered  himself  to  be  so  blinded 
by  these  sentiments  that  he  not  only  overwhelmed  Anquetil 
with  satire  and  invective  which  nre  not  always  in  the  best 

1  He  was  at  this  time  about  twenty-five  years  of  age,  a  Fellow  of 
University  College,  and  a  B.A.  of  three  years'  standing.  He  died  in  1794, 
at  the  age  of  forty-eight. 

5 


$d      HISTORY  OF  PERStAtt  PtitLOLOGY 

taste,  but  absolutely  refused  to  recognise  the  immense  import- 
ance, ana  even  the  reality,  of  discoveries  which  might  have 
condoned  far  more  serious  shortcomings.  As  Darmesteter 
happily  puts  it,  "  the  Zend-Avesta  suffered  for  the  fault  of  its 
introducer,  Zoroaster  for  Anquetil." 

As  a  matter  of  fact  Anquetil's  remarks  about  the  English 
are  (when  we  remember  the  circumstances  under  which  he 
wrote,  in  time  of  war,  when  he  had  seen  his 
VilAnqauetii.  °f  nation  worsted  by  ours,  and  had  himself  been 
held  captive,  not  being  a  prisoner  of  war,  within 
our  borders)  extremely  fair  and  moderate,  nay,  most  gratifying, 
on  the  whole,  to  our  amour  propre,  as  may  be  seen  in  his  glow- 
ing eulogy  of  Mr.  Spencer  (p.  cccxlvi),  his  remarks  on  the 
generosity  of  the  English  towards  the  unfortunate  of  even  a 
hostile  nation  (p.  ccccxxxi),  his  recognition  of  their  hospi- 
tality and  delicacy  of  feeling  (pp.  ccccxxxvii-xxxix),  and  the 
like  ;  while  his  railleries  at  one  or  two  of  the  Oxford  doctors — 
at  the  "  m£chant  bonnet  gras  a  trois  cornes  "  of  Dr.  Swinton, 
the  ill-judged  pleasantry  of  Dr.  Hunt,  the  haughty,  and  magis- 
terial bearing  of  Dr.  Barton — are  in  reality  very  harmless,  and 
quite  devoid  of  malice.  In  short,  there  is  nothing  in  Anque- 
til's book  to  justify  Sir  William  Jones's  bitter  irony  and 
ferocious  invective,  much  less  his  attempt  to  deny  the  great 
services  rendered  to  science  by  the  object  of  his  attack,  and 
to  extinguish  the  new-born  light  destined  to  illuminate  in  so 
unexpected  a  manner  so  many  problems  of  history,  philology, 
and  comparative  theology.  Here  are  a  few  specimens  sufficient 
to  illustrate  the  general  tone  of  his  letter  : — 

"  Ne  soyez  point  surpris,  Monsieur,  de  recevoir  cette  lettre  d'un 
inconnu,  qui  aime  les  vrais  talens,  et  qui  sait  apprecier 

S^TTones's    **  VOtTCS. 

letter  "  Souffrez    qu'on    vous    felicite    de   vos    heureuses 

to  Anquetil.  ,  \ 

decouvertes.  Vous  avez  souvent  prodigue  votre  pre- 
cieuse  vie ;  vous  avez  franchi  des  mcrs  orageuses,  des  montagnes 
remplies  de  tigres  ;  vous  avez  fletri  votre  teint,  que  vous  nous 
dites,  avec  autant  d'elegance  que  de  modestie,  avoir  ete  compose 


SJR    W.  JONES  AND  ANQUETIL          51 

de  Us  el  de  roses  ;  vous  avez  essuye  des  maux  encore  plus  cruels  ;  et 
tout  cela  uniquement  pour  le  bien  de  la  litterature,  et  de  ceux  qui 
ont  le  rare  bonheur  de  vous  ressembler. 

"  Vous  avez  appris  deux  langues  anciennes,  que  1' Europe  entiere 
ignorait ;  vous  avez  rapporte  en  France  le  fruit  de  vos  travaux,  les 
livres  du  celebre  Zoroastre ;  vous  avez  charme  le  public  par  votre 
agreable  traduction  de  cet  ouvrage  ;  et  vous  avez  atteint  le  comble 
de  votre  ambition,  on  plutot  1'objet  de  vos  ardens  desirs  ;  vous  etes 
Membre  de  1' Academic  des  Inscriptions. 

"  Nous  respectons,  comme  nous  le  devons,  cette  illustre  et  savante 
Academic  ;  mais  vous  meritez,  ce  nous  semble,  un  titre  plus  dis- 
tingue. .  .  .  Plus  grand  voyageur  que  Cadmus,  vous  avez  rapporte, 
comme  lui,  de  nouveaux  caracteres,  et  de  nouveaux  dieux.  ...  A 
parler  franchement,  ou  doit  vous  faire  pour  le  moins  1'Archimage, 
ou  grand  pretre  des  Guebres,  d'autant  plus  que,  dans  ce  nouveau 
poste,  vous  auriez  1'occasion  de  mettre  un  peu  plus  de  feu  dans 
vos  ecrits.  » 

"  Voyageur,  Savant,  Antiquaire,  Heros,  Libellisle,  quels  titres  ne 
meritez-vous  pas  ?  .  .  . 

"  Permettez  maintenant,  Monsieur,  qu'on  vous  disc  serieusement 
ce  que  des  gens  de  lettres  pensent  de  votre  entreprise,  de  vos 
voyages,  de  vos  trois  gros  volumes,  et  de  votre  savoir  que  vous 
vantez  avec  si  peu  de  reserve.  ...  On  doit  aimer  le  vrai  savoir : 
mais  toutes  choses  ne  valent  pas  la  peine  d'etre  sues. 

"Socrate  disait,  en  voyant  1'etalage  d'un  bijoutier,  '  De  combien 
de  choses  je  n'ai  pas  besoin  ! '  On  peut  de  meme  s'ecrier,  en  con- 
templant  les  ouvrages  de  nos  erudits,  Combien  de  connaissances  il 
m'importe  peu  d'acquerir  ! 

"  Si  vous  aviez  fait  cette  derniere  reflexion,  vous  n'auriez  pas 
affronte  la  mort  pour  nous  procurer  des  lumieres  inutiles.  .  .  . 

"Si  ces  raisonnemens,  Monsieur,  ne  portent  pas  absolument  a 
faux,  il  en  resulte  que  votre  objet  etait  ni  beau  ni  important ;  que 
1' Europe  eclairee  n'avait  nul  besoin  de  votre  Zende  Vasta  ;  que  vous 
1'avez  traduit  a  pure  perte  ;  et  que  vous  avez  prodigue  inutilement 
pendant  dix-huit  ans  un  temps  qui  devait  vous  etre  precieux.  .  .  . 
Quelle  petite  gloire  que  de  savoir  ce  que  personne  ne  sait,  et  n'a  que 
faire  de  savoir  !  .  .  .  On  veut  meme  croire  que  vous  avez  dans  la 
tete  plus  de  mots  Zendes,  c'est-a-dire,  plus  de  mots  durs,  trainans, 
barbares,  que  tous  les  savans  de  i' Europe.  Ne  savez-vous  pas  que 
les  langues  n'ont  ancune  valeur  intrinseque  ?  .  .  .  D'ailleurs,  etes- 
vous  bien  sur  que  vous  possedez  les  anciennes  langues  de  la 
Perse  ?  .  .  .  On  ne  saura  jamais,  ne  vous  en  deplaise,  les  anciens 
dialectes  de  la  Perse,  tandis  qu'ils  n'existent  que  dans  les  pre- 


52      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

tendus  livres  de  Zoroastre,  qui  d'ailleurs  sont  remplis  de  repetitions 
inutiles. 

"  'Mais,'  direz  vous,  '  me  soupconne-t-on  d'avoir  voulu  tromper  le 
public  ?'  Non,  Monsieur,  on  ne  dit  pas  cela.  Vous  vous  etes  trompe 
vous-meme.  .  .  . 

"Jusqu'ici,  Monsieur,  nous  n'avons  d'autre  plainte  envers  vous, 
que  celle  de  nous  avoir  endormis  ;  ce  qui  n'est  pas  certainement  un 
crime  en  soi-meme  :  quant  a  ceux  qui  craignent  ces  vapeurs  sopori- 
fiques,  il  est  facile  ou  de  ne  pas  lire  un  livre  qui  les  donne,  ou  de 
1'oublier  ;  le  remede  est  aussi  naturel  que  la  precaution  est  bonne. 

"  On  ne  dira  rien  de  votre  style  dur,  bas,  inelegant,  souvent 
ampoule,  rarement  conforme  au  sujet,  et  jamais  agreable.  .  .  . 
Nous  aurons  plus  a  dire  sur  la  fin  de  votre  discours.  .  .  .  Quelle 
punition  votre  Zoroastre  ordonne-t-il  pour  les  ingrats  ?  Combien 
d  urine  de  bceuf  sont  ils  obliges  d'avaler  ?  On  vous  conseille, 
Monsieur,  de  prendre  une  dose  de  cette  sainte  et  purifiante 
liqueur.  .  .  . 

"  Nous  avons,  Monsieur,  1'honneur  de  connaitre  le  Docteur  Hunt, 
et  nous  faisons  gloire  de  le  respecter.  II  est  incapable  de  tromper 
qui  que  ce  soit.  //  ne  nous  a  jamais  dit,  il  n'a  pu  vous  dire,  qu'il 
entendait  les  langues  anciennes  de  la  Perse.  II  est  persuade,  aussi 
bien  que  nous,  que  person  ne  ne  les  sait,  et  ne  les  saura  jamais,  a 
inoins  qu'on  ne  recouvre  toutes  les  histoires,  les  poe'mes,  et  les 
ouvrages  de  religion,  que  le  Calif  e  Omar  et  ses  generaux  chercherent 
a  detruire  avec  tant  d'acharnement ;  ce  qui  rend  inutile  la  peine  de 
courir  le  monde  aux  depens  de  1'eclat  d'un  visage  fteuri.  II  ne 
regrette  pas  a  la  verite  son  ignorance  de  ces  langues  ;  il  en  est  assez 
dedommage  par  sa  rare  connaissance  du  Persan  moderne,  la  langue 
des  Sadi,  des  Cashefi,  des  Nezamis,  dans  les  livres  desquels  on  ne 
trouve  ni  le  Barsom,  ni  le  Lingam,  ni  des  observances  ridicules,  ni 
des  idees  fantastiques,  mais  beaucoup  de  reflexions  piquantes  contre 
1'ingratitude  et  la  faussete.  .  .  . 

"Vous  triomphez,  Monsieur,  de  ce  que  le  Docteur  Hyde  ne 
savait  pas  les  langues  anciennes  de  la  Perse  ;  et  vous  ne  dites  rien 
de  nouveau.  .  .  .  Vous  reprenez  le  Docteur  Hyde  de  ce  qu'il 
ignorait  que  les  cinq  gahs  signifiassent  les  cinq  parties  du  jour ; 
de  ce  qu'il  dit  tou  au  lien  de  ton  :  et  de  ce  qu'il  ne  savait  pas  qu' 
Aherman,  le  nom  de  votre  diable  Persan,  etait  un  abreviation  du  mot 
melodieux  Enghri  meniosch  ;  car  vous  savez  qu'en  changeant  Enghri 
en  Alter  et  meniosch  en  man  on  fait  Aherman.  De  la  meme  maniere 
on  peut  faire  le  mot  diable  en  changeant  Enghri  en  di,  et  mcnoisch 
en  able" 


S/R    W.  JONES  AND  ANQUETIL          53 

Sir  William  Jones  then  proceeds  to  make  merry  at  the 
expense  of  Anquetil's  translation — no  difficult  feat  even  with 
a  better  rendering  of  a  work  containing  so  much  that  is  to  us 
grotesque  and  puerile,  as  must,  in  some  degree,  be  the  case 
with  what  is  produced  by  any  people  in  its  infancy — and  thus 
sums  up  his  reasonings  : — 

"  Ou  Zoroastre  n'avait  pas  le  sens  commun,  ou  il  n'ecrivit  pas  le 
livre  que  vous  lui  attribuez  ;  s'il  n'avait  pas  le  sens  commun,  il  fallait  le 
laisser  dans  la  foule,  et  dans  1'obscurite  ;  s'il  n'ecrivit  pas  ce  livre,  il 
etait  impudent  de  le  publier  sous  son  nom.  Ainsi,  ou  vous  avez 
insulte  le  gout  du  public  en  lui  presentant  des  sottises,  ou  vous 
1'avez  trompe  en  lui  debitant  des  faussetes  :  et  de  chaque  cote  vous 
meritez  son  mepris." 

Sir  William  Jones's  letter,  though  it  served  to  mar  Anquetii 
du  Perron's  legitimate  triumph,  and  (which  was  more  serious) 

to  blind  a  certain  number  of  scholars  and  men  of 
ave^d.  letter^  to  the  real  importance  of  his  discoveries, 

has  now  only  a  historic  interest.  Time,  which 
has  so  fully  vindicated  the  latter  that  no  competent  judge  now 
fails  to  recognise  the  merit  of  his  work,  also  took  its  revenge 
on  the  former  ;  and  he  who  strained  at  the  gnat  of  the  Zend 
dvesta  was  destined  to  swallow  the  camel  of  the  Desatir — one  of 
the  most  impudent  forgeries  ever  perpetrated.  With  the  original 
of  this  egregious  work  he  was,  indeed,  unacquainted,  for  the  only 
known  manuscript  of  it,  though  brought  from  Persia  to  India 
by  Mulla  Ka'us  about  the  year  1773,  was  only  published  by  the 
son  of  the  purchaser,  Mulla  Firuz,  in  1818  ;x  his  knowledge  of 

'  Its  full  title  is  :  The  Desath  ot  Sacred  Writings  oj  the  Ancient  Persian 
Prophets;  in  the  Original  Tongue;  together  with  the  Ancient  Persian 
Version  and  Commentary  of  the  Fifth  Sasan ;  carefully  published  by  Mulla 
Firuz  bin  Kaus,  who  has  subjoined  a  copious  Glossary  of  the  Obsolete  and 
Technical  Persian  Terms  :  to  which  is  added  an  English  Translation  of  the 
Desatit  and  Commentary.  In  two  volumes.  (Bombay,  1818.)  Particulars 
concerning  the  unique  manuscript  will  be  found  at  p.  vii  of  the  Preface  to 
the  second  volume.  The  Desdtir  was  examined,  and  the  futility  of  its  pre- 
tensions exposed,  by  de  Sacy  in  the  Journal  des  Savants  (pp.  16-31  and 


54      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

its  contents  was  derived  from  a  curious  but  quite  modern 
Persian  book  (to  which,  however,  it  was  his  incontestable 
merit  first  to  direct  attention  in  Europe)  entitled  the  Dabistdn- 
i-Madhahib  or  "  School  of  Sects,"  a  treatise  composed  in  India 
about  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  of  our  era.1  Of 
this  work  Sir  William  Jones  spoke  in  17892  in  the  following 
terms  of  exaggerated  eulogy  :  — 

"  A  fortunate  discovery,  for  which  I  was  first  indebted  to  Mir 
Sir  w  Jones's  Muhammed  Husain,  one  of  the  most  intelligent  Musel- 
treduiity  equals  mans  in  India,  has  at  once  dissipated  the  cloud,  and 

his  scepticism,  .  /-I-L.L  L\.  •  it_-i  /•   T    ' 

and  is  as       cast  a  gleam  of  light  on  the  primeval  history  of  Iran 
misplaced.       ancj  Qf  j.ne  human  race,  of  which  I  had  long  despaired, 
and  which  could  hardly  have  dawned  from  any  other  quarter. 

"This  rare  and    interesting   tract  on   twelve  different  religions, 
entitled  the  Dabistdn,  and  composed  by  a  Mohammedan  traveller, 
a  native  of  Cashmir,  named  Mohsan,  but  distinguished 
*ne  assumed  surname  of  Fani,  or  Perishable,  begins 


of  the  value  of     with  a  wonderf  ully  curious  chanter  on  the  religion  of 

the  Desatir  and     TT  ,    ,  ,.    ,  ..  „      ,,      ,  , 

Dabistan.  Hushang,  which  was  long  anterior  to  that  of  Zeratusht, 
but  had  continued  to  be  secretly  professed  by  many 
learned  Persians  even  to  the  author's  time  ;  and  several  of  the  most 
eminent  of  them,  dissenting  in  many  points  from  the  Gabrs,  and 
persecuted  by  the  ruling  powers  of  their  country,  had  retired  to 
India  ;  where  they  compiled  a  number  of  books,  now  extremely 
scarce,  which  Mohsan  had  perused,  and  with  the  writers  of  which,  or 

67-79)  for  January-February,  1821.  See  also  Nos.  6,  12,  13,  18,  and  20  of 
the  Heidclberger  Jahrbucher  det  Littcratur  for  1823  (vol.  i),  by  H.  E.  G. 
Paulus  ;  and  Erskine  in  vol.  ii.  of  the  Transactions  of  the  Bombay  Literary 
Society.  The  most  probable  theory  of  its  origin  is  that  suggested  by 
Stanislas  Guyard  on  pp.  61-62  of  the  separate  reprint  of  his  admirable 
article  Un  Grand  Maitrc  des  Assassins  au  temps  de  Saladin,  published  in 
the  Journal  Asiatique  for  1877,  viz.,  that  it  was  the  work,  and  contains 
the  doctrines,  of  the  Isma'ilis. 

1  See  pp.  141-142  of  Rieu's  Catalogue  of  the  Persian  Manuscripts  in  the 
British  Museum.  There  are  several  Oriental  editions  of  the  text,  and  an 
English  translation  by  Shea  and  Troyer,  printed  at  Paris  in  1843  for  the 
Oriental  Translation  Fund. 

,  2  In  his  Sixth  Anniversary  Discourse  on  the  Persians,  delivered  at  a 
meeting  of  the  Asiatic  Society,  in  Calcutta,  on  February  19,  1789  (Works, 
vol.  i,  pp.  73-94)- 


WILLIAM  JONES  55 

with  many  of  them,  he  had  contracted  an  intimate  friendship  :  from 
them  he  learned  that  a  powerful  monarchy  had  been  established  for 
ages  in  Iran  before  the  accession  of  Cayumers,  that  it  was  called 
the  Mahabadian,  for  a  reason  which  will  soon  be  mentioned,  and 
that  many  princes,  of  whom  seven  or  eight  only  are  named 
in  the  Dabistdn,  and  among  them  Mahbul  or  Maha  Beli,  had  raised 
their  empire  to  the  zenith  of  human  glory.  If  we  can  rely  on  this 
evidence,  which  to  me  appears  unexceptionable,  the  Iranian 
monarchy  must  have  been  the  oldest  in  the  world  ;  but  it  will 
remain  dubious  to  ^which  of  the  stocks,  Hindu,  Arabian,  or  Tartar, 
the  first  Kinqs  of  Iran  belonged,  or  whether  they  sprang  from  a 
fourth  race,  distinct  from  any  of  the  others  ;  and  these  are  questions 
which  we  shall  be  able,  I  imagine,  to  answer  precisely  when  we  have 
carefully  inquired  into  the  languages  and  letters,  religion  and  philosophy, 
and  incidentally  into  the  arts  and  sciences,  of  the  ancient  Persians. 

"  In  the  new  and  important  remarks,  which  I  am  going  to  offer, 

on  the  ancient  languages  and  characters  of  Iran,  I  am  sensible,  that 

you  must  give  me  credit  for  many  assertions,  which  on 

SnrotJonJs°anb£ut    this  occasion  it  is  impossible  to  prove  ;  for  I  should  ill 

the  history  of     deserve  your  indulgent  attention,  if  I  were  to  abuse  it 

Ancient  Persia.  *  •,,-.,-, 

by  repeating  a  dry  list  of  detached  words,  and  present- 
ing you  with  a  vocabulary  instead  of  a  dissertation  ;  but,  since  I  have 
no  system  to  maintain,  and  have  not  suffered  imagination  to  delude 
my  judgment, isince  I  have  habituated  myself  to  form  opinions  of  men 
and  things  from  evidence,  which  is  the  only  solid  basis  of  civil,  as 
experiment  is  of  natural,  knowledge ;  and  since  I  have  maturely 
considered  the  questions  which  I  mean  to  discuss  ;  you  will  not,  I  am 
persuaded,  suspect  my  testimony,  or  think  I  go  too  far,  when  I 
assure  you,  that  I  will  assert  nothing  positively,  which  I  am  not  able 
satisfactorily  to  demonstrate." 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  citation  that  Sir  William 

Jones  was  just  as  positive  in  his  affirmations  as  in  his  negations, 

and  too  often  equally  unfortunate  in   both.     He 

SirwunJer"e88    confidently,  and  "  without  fear  of  contradiction," 

identified     Cyrus    with    the    entirely    legendary 

Kay-Khusraw  of  the   Persian    Epic  (the  Kawa   Husrawa  or 

Husrawarih  of  the  A  vesta),  and  the  legendary   Pishdadi  kings 

with    the   Assyrians  ;    derived    the  name   of  Cambyses    (the 

Kambujiya  of  the  Old  Persian  inscriptions)  from  the  Modern 

Persian  Kam-bakhh^  "  granting  desires,"  which  he  regarded  as 


56      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

"a  title  rather  than  a  name,"  and  Xerxes  (the  Khshaydnha  of 
the  inscriptions)  from  Shiru'i  (and  this  after  his  scornful 
rejection  of  Anquetil's  correct  derivation  of  Ahriman  from 
Ahra  Mainyush  /)  ;  continued  to  see  "strong  reasons  to  doubt 
the  existence  of  genuine  books  in  Zend  or  Pahlawi,"  on  the 
ground  that  "  the  well-informed  author  of  the  Dabistdn  affirms 
the  work  of  Zeratusht  to  have  been  lost,  and  its  place  supplied 
by  a  recent  compilation  ; "  held  "  that  the  oldest  discoverable 
languages  of  Persia  were  Chaldaick  and  Sanscrit,  and  that,  when 
they  had  ceased  to  be  vernacular,  the  Pahlawi  and  Zend  were 
deduced  from  them  respectively,  and  the  Pdrsi  either  from  the 
Zendy  or  immediately  from  the  dialect  of  the  Brahmans  ; " 
believed  (with  the  Persians)  that  Jamshid  (the  Yima  of  the 
Avesta  and  Yama  of  the  Hindu  mythology,  a  shadowy 
personality  belonging  to  the  common  Indo-Iranian  legend)  built 
Persepolis,  and  that  the  Achasmenian  inscriptions  there  visible 
"  if  really  alphabetical,  were  probably  secret  and  sacerdotal,  or 
a  mere  cypher,  perhaps,  of  which  the  priests  only  had  the 
key "  ;  and  finally  accepted  the  absurd  Desdtir — "  a  sacred 
book  in  a  heavenly  language"  (which  proves,  in  fact,  to  be 
no  language  at  all,  but  mere  gibberish,  slavishly  modelled  on 
the  ordinary  Persian  in  which  the  "  Commentary  "  is  written) — 
as  an  ancient  historical  document  of  capital  importance, 
destined  to  throw  an  entirely  new  light  on  the  earliest  history 
of  the  Aryan  people,  and  to  prove  "  that  the  religion  of  the 
Brahmans  .  .  .  prevailed  in  Persia  before  the  accession  ot 
Cayumers,  whom  the  Parsis,  from  respect  to  his  memory, 
consider  as  the  first  of  men,  although  they  believe  in  an 
universal  deluge  before  his  reign."  Truly  Anquetil  was 
abundantly  avenged,  and  the  proposition  that  misplaced 
scepticism  often  coexists  with  misplaced  credulity  received 
a  striking  illustration  ! 

But  Sir  William  Jones,  however  greatly  he  may  have  fallen 
into  error  in  matters  connected  with  the  ancient  history  and 
languages  of  Persia,  was  so  eminent  in  his  public  career,  so 


VINDICATION  OF  ANQUETIL  57 

catholic  in  his  interests,  so  able  a  man  of  letters,  and  so  elegant 

a  scholar,  that  his  opinion  was  bound   to  carry  great  weight, 

especially  in  his  own  country  :  and  consequently 

Influence  of  }    .  .    .  }   '  .  ' 

sir w.  joness  we  find  his  scepticism  as  to  the  genuineness  or 
the  Avesta  echoed  in  England  by  Sir  John  Chardin 
and  Richardson  (the  celebrated  Persian  Lexicographer)  and 
in  Germany  by  Meiners  and,  at  first,  Tychsen,  who,  however, 
afterwards  became  one  of  Anquetil's  strongest  supporters,  an 
attitude  assumed  from  the  first  by  another  German  scholar, 
Kleuker,  who  translated  Anquetil's  work  into  his  own 
language,  and  added  to  it  several  appendices.  In  England, 
for  the  moment,  Sir  William  Jones's  opinion  carried  everything 
before  it,  and  Anquetil's  translation  "  was  laid  aside  as  spurious 
and  not  deserving  any  attention  ;  " 1  while  in  France,  on  the 
other  hand,  it  from  the  first  commanded  that  general  recogni- 
tion and  assent  which  are  now  universally  accorded  to  it.  To 
trace  in  detail  the  steps  whereby  this  recognition  was  secured 
is  not  within  the  scope  of  this  book,  and  we  can  only  notice  a 
few  of  the  most  important.  Such  as  desire  to  follow  them 
in  detail  will  find  all  the  information  they  require  in  the 
excellent  accounts  of  Haug  and  Darmesteter  referred  to  in 
the  footnote  on  this  page,  as  well  as  in  Geldner's  article, 
Awestalhteratur,  in  vol.  ii  (pp.  1—53,  especially  p.  40, 
Geschichte  der  Awestaforschung]  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss 
der  Irani schen  Philologie  (Strassburg,  1896). 

The    first  important  step   in   the  vindication    of  Anquetil 

was   made  by   his   illustrious  compatriot,  Sylvestre    de    Sacy, 

who,  in  1793,  published  in  the  Journal  des  Savants 

Memoiressut      his  five  celebrated  Mtmoires  sur  diver ses  Antlquith 

tiquitesdeia     de  la  Perse,  which  dealt  chiefly  with  the  Pahlawi 

Perse  (1793)-        .  ..  r    v     o  -  '    •         i  •  r         i_       j      •    i 

inscriptions  of  the  Sasaman  kings,  for  the  decipher- 

1  See  West's  third  edition  of  Haug's  Essays  on  the  Pdrsis,  pp.  16-53, 
and  Darmesteter's  Introduction  to  his  translation  of  the  Avesta  in  Max 
Mullen's  Sacred  Books  of  the  East  (Oxford,  1880),  vol.  iv,  pp.  xiii-xxv,  to 
both  of  which  I  have  been  greatly  indebted  in  this  portion  of  my  subject 


58      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

ment  of  which  he  chiefly  relied,  apart  from  the  Greek 
translations  which  accompany  some  of  them,  on  the  Pahlawf 
vocabulary  given  by  Anquetil  (vol.  iii,  pp.  432-526),  "whose 
work,"  as  Darmesteter  well  says,  "  vindicated  itself  thus — 
better  than  by  heaping  up  arguments — by  promoting  dis- 
coveries." For  the  oldest  extant  manuscripts  of  the  Avesta 
date  only  from  the  fourteenth  century  of  our  era,  while  the 
Sasanian  inscriptions  go  back  to  the  third,  and  could  not, 
therefore,  be  set  aside,  even  for  a  moment,  as  late  forgeries  ; 
and  if  Anquetil's  vocabulary  furnished  a  key  to  these,  it  was 
manifest  that  the  Pahlawi  which  he  had  learned  from  his 
dastiirs  was  the  genuine  language  of  Sasanian  times  ;  and  that 
the  occurrence  in  it  of  Semitic  words,  such  as  malka  "  king," 
shanat  "  year,"  ab  "  father,"  shamsd  "  sun,"  Id  "  not,"  which 
Sir  William  Jones,  regarding  them  as  Arabic1  (though  he 
afterwards  recognised  them  as  Chaldaean),2  cited  as  proof  of 
the  fictitious  antiquity  of  the  language  in  which  they  occurred, 
of  Anquetil's  credulity,  and  of  his  Pdrsi  instructor's  fraud,  was 
an  indisputable  fact,  whatever  might  be  its  true  explanation. 
Tychsen  insisted  strongly  on  this  point. 

"  This,"  said  he,  "  is  a  proof  that  the  Pahlawi  was  used  during  the 
reign  of  the  Sasanides,  for  it  was  from  them  that  these  inscriptions 
emanated,  as  it  was  by  them — nay,  by  the  first  of  them,  Ardashir 
Babagan — that  the  doctrine  of  Zoroaster  was  revived.  One  can 
now  understand  why  the  Zend  books  were  translated  into  Pahlawi. 
Here,  too,  everything  agrees,  and  speaks  loudly  for  their  antiquity 
and  genuineness."3 

The  Pahlawi  inscriptions  thus  deciphered  by  de  Sacy  had  been 

1  Lettre  a  Monsieur  A  .  .  .  du  P  .  .  .,  p.  610 :  "  Lorsque  nous  voyons 
les  mots  Arabes  corrumpus  .  .  .  donnes  pour  des  mots  Zendes  et  Pehlevis, 
nous  disons  hardiment  que  ce  charlatan  [le  reverend  Docteur  Darab]  vous 
a  trompe,  et  que  vous  avez  tache  de  trompervos  lecteurs." 

2  Sir  W.  Jones's  Works,  vol.  i,  p.  8l. 

3  Cited  by  Darmesteter  in  his  Introduction  (pp.  xix-xx)  to  the  Trans- 
lation of  the  Vendidad  (see  n,  I  on  the  previous  page). 


DECIPHERMENT  OF  INSCRIPTIONS      59 

known    in    Europe   since    Samuel    Flower    published    in    the 

Philosophical    Transactions    for    June,    1693    (pp.   775-7)  the 

copies  of   them  which    he    had    made    in    1667, 

Pahiawi  inscrip-  while   further   copies   appeared    in  the  works  of 

Chardin  (1711),  Niebuhr  (1778),  and,  at  a  later 

date,  of  other  travellers  ; T  but,  though  Hyde  reproduced  them 

in  his  book,  de  Sacy  was  the  first  to  attempt  with  any  success 

their  interpretation. 

Five  years  after  the  publication  of  de  Sacy's  Memoir es  (1798), 

the  Carmelite    father,  Paul    de  St.  Barthelemy,  published  at 

Rome  his  essay,  De  antiquitate  et  affinitate  lingua 

samscredamicee  et  germanic<sy  in  which  he  defended 

the    antiquity  of  the  Avesta,  and  even  uttered  a  conjecture 

as  to  the    affinity  of  the    language    in  which    it    is  written 

with  Sanskrit.2 

The   first   important   step   in    the  next,  and    perhaps    the 
greatest,   achievement   of    Persian    scholarship — to    wit,    the 
decipherment  of  the  Persian  cuneiform  inscriptions 
(writings  of  which   the  character  and  language 
were  alike    unknown) — was   made  early  in    the 
nineteenth  century    by  Grotefend,  whose  papers 
on  this  subject — models  of  clear  reasoning  and  acute  insight — 
have  only  recently  been  unearthed  from  the  Archives  of  the 
Gottingen   Royal   Society  of  Sciences  and    published  in  the 
Nachrichten  of  that  Society  (September  13,  1893,  pp.  571-616) 
by  W.  Meyer.     Of  these  papers  the  first  was  originally  read 
on    September  4,    1802,    the    second   on    October  and,  the 

1  See  West's  account  of  the  Sasanian  Inscriptions  in  his  article  on 
Pahiawi  Literature  in  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss  d.  Iranischcn  Philologie, 
vol.  ii,  pp.  76-79  ;    and  also   Haug's   Essay  on  Pahiawi  (Bombay  and 
London,  1870),  which  begins  with  a  very  full  account  of  the  progress  of 
Pahiawi  studies  in  Europe. 

2  Darmesteter  (op.  cit.),  p.  xxi.    The  same  conception,  now  universally 
accepted  (viz.,  that  the  Avestic  language  and  Sanskrit  were  sister-tongues), 
was  very  clearly  formulated  by  de  Sacy  in  the  Journal  des  Savants  for 
March,  1821,  p.  136. 


60      HISTORY  Of  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

third  on  November  I3th  of  the  same  year,  and  the  fourth 
on  May  20,  1803.  Till  this  time,  though  Tychsen  and 
Miinter  had  made  vain  attempts  at  decipherment,  it  was,  as  we 
have  seen  when  examining  Hyde's  work,  very  generally  held, 
even  by  men  of  learning,  that  these  characters  were  not 
writing  at  all,  but  were  either  architectural  ornaments,  the 
work  of  worms  or  insects,  or  mason's  marks  and  numerical 
signs.  Grotefend,  primarily  impelled  to  this  inquiry  by  a 
dispute  with  his  friend  Fiorillo  as  to  the  possibility  of  arriving 
at  the  meaning  of  inscriptions  whereof  the  script  and  language 
were  alike  unknown  or  buried  in  oblivion,  arrived  in  his  first 
communication  at  the  following  important  general  conclusions  : 

(i)  That  the  figures  constituting  these  inscriptions 
general  con-      were  graphic  symbols ;   (2)  that  the  inscriptions 

were  trilingual,  that  is,  that  they  consisted,  as 
a  rule,  of  three  versions,  each  in  a  different  language  and 
script ;  (3)  that  the  inscriptions  which  he  proposed  to  explain, 
that  is,  those  of  the  first  class  (the  Old  Persian)  in  particular, 
and  also  those  of  the  second,  consisted  of  actual  letters^  not  of 
ideograms  or  logograms  comparable  to  those  employed  in 
Assyrian  and  Chinese  ;  (4)  that  all  known  cuneiform 
inscriptions  were  constant  in  direction,  being  in  every  case 
written  horizontally  from  left  to  right. 

From  these  general  conclusions  (all  of  which  have  since 
proved  to  be  perfectly  correct)  Grotefend  proceeded  to 

examine    more  minutely  two  inscriptions  of  the 
method  of      first  class,  which  he  believed  to  be  written  in  the 

procedure. 

so-called  Zend  (i.e.,  Avestic)  language — a  con- 
jecture which,  though  not  the  truth,  was  near  the  truth — and 
which  he  correctly  referred  to  "  some  ancient  king  of  the 
Persians  between  Cyrus  and  Alexander,"  in  other  words,  to  the 
Achaemenians.1  An  examination  of  the  Pahlawi  inscriptions 

1  The  fact  that  the  inscriptions  of  the  first  class  were  in  the  language  of 
the  Achsemenian  kings — in  other  words,  in  an  Old  Persian  language — was 
suggested  to  Grotefend  by  the  position  of  honour  always  occupied  by  them 
in  the  trilingual  tablets. 


DECIPHERMENT  OF  INSCRIPTIONS      61 

of  the  Sdsanians,  already  deciphered  by  de  Sacy,  suggested  to 
him  the  probability  that  the  first  word  in  the  inscription  was 
the  name  of  a  king  of  this  dynasty,  and  the  second  his  title. 
He  then  observed  that  that  name  which  stood  at  the  beginning 
of  the  second  inscription  was  in  the  first  placed  after  the  title, 
which  (again  guided  by  the  analogy  of  the  Sisanian  inscrip- 
tions) he  rightly  assumed  to  signify  "  King  of  Kings,"  with  a 
slight  final  modification,  which  he  correctly  conjectured 
to  be  the  inflexion  of  the  genitive  case,  from  which  he 
gathered  that  the  two  names  in  the  first  inscription  were 
those  of  father  and  son.  One  of  these  names,  which  Xychsen 
had  read  Malkeusch,  appeared  to  him  to  square  best  with 
Darius,  whose  name  in  the  Books  of  Daniel,  Ezra,  and 
Nehemiah  occurs  in  the  form  Dariy&vush  ("  Darjavesch  ")  ; 
another,  read  by  Tychsen  as  Osch  patscha,  with  Xerxes 
("Khschhersche).  For  both  these  names  consisted,  in  the 
Old  Persian  inscriptions,  of  seven  separate  characters  (these 
being,  as  we  now  know,  in  the  first,  D.  A.  R.  Y.  V.  U.  SH, 
and  in  the  second,  K.  SH.  Y.  A.  R.  SH.  A),  of  which  one  (A) 
occurred  three  times,  and  three  (R,  Y,  SH)  twice,  in  the 
two  names  ;  and  the  assumption  as  to  the  reading  of  these 
names  was  confirmed  by  the  order  of  the  component  letters  of 
each.  Now  it  was  known  from  the  accounts  of  the  Greek 
historians  that  Darius  was  the  son  of  Hystaspes,  which  name 
appeared  in  Anquetil's  work  in  the  native  forms  Gushtasp, 
Vishtasp,  &c.  ;  and,  from  the  analogy  of  the  inscription  of 
Xerxes,  it  appeared  probable  that  Darius  also  in  his  inscription 
would  mention  this,  his  father's  name.  And,  in  effect,  there 
occurred  in  the  proper  place  in  this  inscription  of  Darius  a 
group  of  ten  letters,  of  which  the  last  three  (now  known  to 
represent  H.  Y.  A.)  had  already  been  recognised  as  the  case- 
ending  of  the  genitive.  Of  the  remaining  seven,  two — the 
third  (SH)  and  fifth  (A) — were  already  known,  while,  from 
what  was  common  to  the  Greek  and  Avestic  forms  of  the 
name,  the  fourth,  sixth,  and  seventh  might  fairly  be  assumed  to 


62      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

represent  T,  S,  and  P  respectively.  There  remained  the  two 
initial  letters,  of  which  it  was  pretty  evident  that  the  first  was 
a  consonant  (G  or  V),  and  the  second  a  vowel  (not  U,  already 
known,  and  therefore  presumably  I)  ;  but  Grotefend  actually 
read  them  as  G.  O.  instead  of  V.  I. 

Such    were   the  great  and   definite  results  of  Grotefend's 
discoveries.      Further  than  this  he  endeavoured  to  go  ;  but, 

on  the  one  hand,  he  was  misled  by  his  belief  that 
Grresuitsd>s      t^ie  language  or" tne  inscriptions  was  identical  with 

that  of  the  Avesta,  and  by  the  fact  that  Anquetil's 
account  of  the  latter  was  imperfect  and  in  many  details 
erroneous  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  materials  at  his  disposal 
were  inadequate  and  did  not  supply  sufficient  data  for  full 
decipherment  and  interpretation.  Hence  his  scheme  of  the 
values  of  the  letters  was,  as  we  now  know,  scarcely  even  half 
correct,  while  his  interpretations  and  transcriptions  of  the 
texts  which  he  attacked  were  but  approximations.  Thus  one 
of  the  Persepolitan  inscriptions  with  which  he  especially 
dealt  (Niebuhr,  PI.  xxiv  ;  Spiegel's  Keilinschnfteny  ed.  1862, 
p.  48,  B ),  is  now  known  to  read  as  follows  : — 


Ddrayavush  .  Khshdyathiya  .  vazraka  .  Khshdyathiya  .  Khshdyathi* 
ydndm  .  Khshdyathiya  .  dahyundm  .  Vishtdspahya  .  putra  .  Hakhdma- 
nishiya  .  hya  .  imam  .  tacharam  .  akunaush. 

That  is  to  say  : — 

"  Darius,  the  great  king,  the  king  of  kings,  the  king  of  the  pro- 
vinces, the  son  of  Vishtaspa,  the  Achasmenian,  who  made  this  temple." 

Grotefend's  transcription  and  translation  were  as  follows  : — 

Ddrheusch  .  Khshchioh  .  eghre  .  KhshehiSh  .  Khshehioheichdo  . 
thshehioh  .  Ddhutchdo  .  Goschtdspdhe  .  bun  .  akheotchoschoh  .  Ah  . 
ooo  .  Moro  .  eziitchusch. 

"  Darius,  rex  fortis,  rex  regum,  rex  Daharum  (tilius)  Hystaspis, 
stirps  mundi  rectoris.  In  constellatione  mascula.  Moro  rov  Ized." 


DECIPHERMENT  OF  INSCRIPTIONS      63 

Yet,  though  Grotefend  failed  to  accomplish  all  he  attempted, 
few    would  have  ventured  even  to  attempt  what  he  accom- 
plished ;  and  his  method,  and   the  discoveries  to 

Estimation  of  .it/-  •     •  •  •  r      i 

Grotetend's      which    it   led,  formed  the   starting-point    or    the 

achievement.  .    .        ,   .  ,   *~  ,       ,   .         . 

further  researches  which  ultimately  resulted  in  the 
complete  solution  of  this  difficult  enigma.  De  Sacy,  whose 
discoveries  had  prepared  the  way  for  those  of  Grotefend,  was 
the  first  to  recognise  the  immense  value  of  his  results,  and  to 
make  them  more  widely  known,  while  the  rival  system  of 
interpretation  proposed  by  Saint-Martin  met  with  but  little 
acceptance.1 

The  next  great  advances  in  decipherment  were  made  almost 
simultaneously  in  the  years  1836-1837  by  Lassen,  Burnouf, 
and  Rawlinson,  the  last  of  whom,  working  inde- 
pcndentlyin  Persia,  without  knowledge  of  what  had 
been  effected  by  Grotefend,  succeeded  in  reading 
the  names  of  Arshdma,  Ariyaramna,  Chaishpish, 
and  Hakhimanish  in  the  first  paragraph  of  the  great  Behistun 
inscription  of  Darius.  Burnouf  had  already  made  use  of  his 
knowledge  of  Sanskrit  to  elucidate  the  Avesta,  both  by  the 
comparative  method  and  by  the  use  of  Neriosengh's  Sanskrit 
translation  ;  and  he  now  turned  from  the  completion  of  his  great 
work  on  the  Yasna  2  to  an  examination  of  the  Persian  cuneiform 
inscriptions,  for  the  study  of  which  the  labours  of  the  unfortu- 
nate traveller  Schultz  had  furnished  him  with  fresh  materials 
from  Alvand  and  Van.3  His  work  was  to  some  extent  thrown 


1  For  further  details  and  references  as  to  the  progress  of  the  decipher 
ment,  see  Spiegel's  Kurze  Geschichte  der  Entziffemng(at  pp.  119-132,  of 
the  already-cited  edition  of  his  Keilinschriftcn ;  also  Geiger  and  Kuhn's 
Grundriss  der  Iranischen  Philologie,  vol.  ii,  pp.  64-74,  Geschichte  d. 
Entzifferung  und  Erklarung  d.  Inschriften. 

3  Commentairc  sur  le  Yafna,  I'un  des  livres  rcligieux  des  Parses :  ouvrage 
contenant  le  texte  zend  explique  POUT  la  premiere  fats,  les  variantes  des  qualre 
manuscrits  dc  la  Bibliotheque  royale  et  la  version  sanscrite  intdite  de 
Neriosengh  (Paris,  1833-1835). 

3  Mfmoirc  sur  deux  Inscriptions  cuneijormts  (Paris,  1836.) 


into  the  shade  by  the  more  brilliant  results  of  Lassen  ;  but, 
besides  reading  the  name  of  the  Supreme  Being,  Ahuramazda, 
and  some  other  words,  and  pointing  out  that  the  language  ot 
the  inscriptions,  though  akin  to  that  of  the  A  vesta,  was  not 
identical  with  it,  and  that  the  writing  did  not,  as  a  rule,  express 
the  short  vowels  except  when  they  were  initial,  he  first  called 
attention  to  the  list  of  names  of  countries  contained  in  the 
great  inscription  of  Darius.  This  last  indication,  communicated 
to  Lassen  in  the  summer  of  1835,  was  fruitfully  utilised  by  the 
latter  for  the  fuller  and  more  accurate  determination  of  the 
values  of  the  letters,  and  the  demonstration  of  the  existence  of 
an  inherent  short  a  (as  in  Sanskrit)  in  many  of  the  con- 
sonants, so  that,  for  example,  S.P.R.D.  was  shown  by  him  to 
stand  for  Sparda.  Within  the  next  four  years  (up  to  1840) 
Lassen's  results  had  been  further  extended,  elucidated,  and 
corrected  by  Beer  and  Jacquet,  while  new  materials  collected 
by  the  late  Claude  James  Rich,  British  Resident  at  Baghdad, 
had  been  rendered  available  by  publication,  and  Westergaard 
had  brought  back  fresh  and  more  accurate  copies  of  the 
Persepolitan  inscriptions. 

It  is  unnecessary  in  this  place  to  trace  further  the  progress  of 

this  branch  of  Persian  studies,  or  to  do  more  than  mention  the 

later   discoveries  of  Loftus  (1852)  and  Dieulafoy 

Further  progress  _ 

of  the  study  of  (looA)    at    busa  ;    the    photographs     taken     at 

Old  Persian.       ^        +'  .  '  F,        r  ,1         • 

rersepolis  in  1070  and  the  following  years  by 
Stolze,  and  published  at  Berlin  in  1882  in  two  volumes 
entitled  'Persepolis  ;  and  the  additional  light  thrown  on  the 
Old  Persian  language  and  script  by  such  scholars  as  Bang, 
Bartholomae,  Bollensen,  Foy,  HaleVy,  Hitzig,  Hubschmann, 
Kern,  Miiller,  Menant,  Sayce,  Thumb,  and  others.  Nor  need 
the  wild  theories  as  to  the  talismanic  character  of  the  inscrip- 
tions propounded  by  M.  le  Comte  de  Gobineau  in  his  Traite 
des  hritures  cuneiformes  (Paris,  1864)  detain  us  even  for  a 
moment.  A  few  words  must,  however,  be  said  as  to  Oppert's 
ingenious  theory  as  to  the  origin  and  nature  of  the  script. 


ORIGIN  OF  PERSIAN  CUNEIFORM       65 

From  the  Old  Persian  character  the  Assyrian  differs  in  one 

most  essential  respect,  in  spite  of  the  superficial  resemblance  ot 

these  two  cuneiform  scripts.     The  former,  as  we 

Oppert's  theory  .  III-I/L         i    >     , 

as  to  the  origin    have  seen,  is  truly  alphabetical  (the  alphabet  con- 

of  the  Persian        .     .  '  J  r 

cuneiform      sistmg   of   forty-one   symbols,    whereof  four   are 

alphabet.  J  /  ' 

logograms,  or  abbreviations  for  the  constantly- 
occurring  words  "  Ahuramazda,"  "  King,"  "  Land,"  and 
"  Earth,"  while  one  is  a  mark  of  punctuation  to  separate  the 
words  from  one  another)  ;  the  latter  is  a  syllabary,  or  rather  an 
immense  collection  of  ideograms  or  logograms,  comparable  to 
the  Chinese  or  Egyptian  hieroglyphics.  An  Assyrian  graphic 
symbol  usually  connotes,  in  other  words,  an  idea,  not  the 
sound  representing  that  idea,  and  has,  therefore,  only  a  casual 
relation  to  its  phonetic  equivalent,  so  that,  for  instance,  an 
ideogram  from  the  older  Akkadian  could  continue  to  be  used  in 
Assyrian  with  the  same  meaning  but  with  a  different  phonetic 
value.  Oppert's  theory  is  that  the  Old  Persian  letters,  invented 
about  the  time  of  the  fall  of  the  Medic  and  rise  of  the  Persian 
(Achasmenian)  power,  were  derived  from  the  Assyrian 
ideograms  as  follows.  An  Assyrian  ideogram  was  given  its 
Persian  phonetic  equivalent,  or,  in  other  words,  read  as  a 
Persian  ideogram  ;  this  ideogram  was  then  simplified  and  used 
as  a  letter  having  the  value  of  the  initial  sound  of  the  Persian 
word  ;  and  this  process  was  continued  until  enough  graphic 
symbols,  or  letters,  had  been  formed  to  represent  all  the 
Persian  phonetic  elements.  Thus  the  Persians,  in  the  sixth 
century  before  Christ,  made  this  great  advance  from  a  system 
of  ideograms  (probably  hieroglyphic  or  pictorial  in  their  first 
origin)  to  a  real  alphabet ;  but  their  analysis  stopped  short  at 
the  separation  of  a  short  vowel  following  a  consonant,  and 
therefore  they  employed  separate  characters,  for  example,  for 
the  syllables  ka^  ku  ;  gay  gu ;  ja,  ji  ;  da^  diy  du ;  ma,  miy 
mu^  &c. 

We  see  here  another  illustration  of  the  extent  to  which 
Persia,  from  very  early  times,  has  been  under  Semitic  influence, 

6 


66      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

first  Assyrian,  then  Aramaic,  and  lastly  Arabian.  The  Assyrian 
influence  is  as  unmistakable  in  the  sculptures  of  Persepolis 
and  Bchistun  as  in  the  inscriptions;  and,  as 
«r  Spiegel  has  well  shown  (Eranische  Alterthunukunde^ 
vol.  i,  pp.  446-485),  it  can  be  traced  with  equal 
clearness  in  the  domain  of  religion,  probably  also  of  politics, 
social  organisation,  jurisprudence,  and  war.  "The  great 
King,  the  King  of  kings,  the  King  in  Persia,  the  King  of 
the  Provinces,"  was  heir  in  far  more  than  mere  style  and 
title  to  "  the  great  King,  the  King  of  Assyria,"  with  whose 
might  Rabshakch  threatened  Hezekiah.  And  this  relation 
perhaps  explains  the  enigma  presented  by  the  Huzvirish 
element  in  Pahlawi  which  so  long  misled  students  as  to  the 
true  character  of  the  latter. 

Why  did  the  Pahlawi  scribe,  fully  acquainted  with  the  alpha- 
betical use  of  the  Pahlawi  character,  write  the  old  title  "King 
of  kings"  as  Malkan-malka  when  (as  we  know 
fr°m  tnc  contemporary  historian  Ammianus  Mar- 
cellinus)  his  soldiers  and  people  hailed  him  (as  they 
still  hail  their  monarch)  as  Shahun-shi'ih — the  later 
equivalent  of  the  old  Khshdyathiya  Khshayathiy&nam  ?  Why 
did  he  write  bisra  for  meat  and  lahma  for  bread  when  (as  we 
learn  from  the  author  of  the  Fihrist,  and  other  well-informed 
writers  of  the  early  Muhammadan  period)  he  read  these 
Aramaic  words  into  Persian  as  gusht  and  n&n  ?  To  us  it 
seems  unnatural  enough,  though  even  we  do  pretty  much  the 
same  thing  when  we  read  "  /'.*."  as  "  that  is,"  "  e.g."  as  "  for 
example,"  and  «  tf  "  or  "  &  "  as  "  and."  Yet  how  much  easier 
and  more  natural  was  such  a  procedure  to  a  people  accustomed 
to  scripts  wholly  composed  of  ideograms  and  symbols 
appealing  directly  to  the  intelligence  without  invoking  aid  from 
the  auditory  sense  ?  If  the  Assyrian  adopted  the  Akkadian 
logogram  connoting  the  idea  of  "  father,"  and  read  for  it  his 
own  and  not  the  original  foreign  equivalent,  why  should  the 
Persian  hesitate  to  treat  the  Aramaic  words  malk a,  b'nrAt  lahmd 


BURNOUF'S    WORK  67 

and  the  like,  in  the  same  way,  as  though  they  too  were  mere 
ideograms  rather  than  groups  of  letters  ?  The  general  use  of 
Pahlawi,  it  is  true,  belongs,  as  we  have  already  seen,  to  a  time 
when  Assyria  had  long  passed  away,  viz.,  the  Sasdnian  period 
(A.D.  226-640),  and  the  early  Muhammadan  times  imme- 
diately succeeding  it,  but  it  has  been  traced  back  to  the  third 
and  fourth  centuries  before  Christ,  and  may  in  all  likelihood 
have  existed  at  a  yet  earlier  date.  In  the  essentially  conserva- 
tive East  there  is  nothing  very  wonderful  in  this  ;  and  the 
siyaq,  universally  used  for  keeping  accounts  even  at  the  present 
day  in  Persia,  presents  a  somewhat  analogous  phenomenon,  for 
the  symbols  used  therein  instead  of  the  ordinary  Arabic 
numerals  are  in  reality  mutilated  and  abbreviated  forms  of  the 
Arabic  names  of  the  different  numbers,  a  fact  which  the  Persian 
accountant  who  uses  them  often  forgets  and  occasionally  does 
not  know. 

Before  speaking  further   of  Pahlawi,    however,  something 

more  must  be  said  of  the  continued  progress  of  Avestic  studies. 

We  have  seen  what  help  was  derived  from  Sanskrit 

Further  progress    .          n  r  i     T  i      •  i  r       i 

of  Avesta  by  ijurnouf  and  Lassen  in  their  study  of  the 
Achaemenian  Inscriptions,  and  have  already 
alluded  incidentally  to  the  monumental  work  on  the  Yasna 
published  by  the  former  in  1833-1835.  Working  with 
the  copious  materials  collected  by  Anquetil,  which  had  long 
lain  neglected  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  he  first  set 
himself,  by  careful  collation  of  the  MSS.,  to  establish  a  correct 
text  of  this  portion  of  the  Avesta.  For  the  elucidation  of  this 
he  relied  chiefly  on  Neriosengh's  Sanskrit  translation,  as  repre- 
senting the  oldest  traditional  interpretation  available  to  him, 
which,  however,  he  weighed,  tested,  and  proved  with  the  most 
careful  and  judicious  criticism  ;  while  at  the  same  time  he 
sought  to  establish  the  grammar  and  lexicography  of  the  Avestic 
language.  But  he  was  content  to  show  the  way  to  others, 
and  to  place  the  study  of  the  Avesta  on  a  really  sound  and 
scientific  basis  :  the  large  volume  which  he  published  elu- 


68      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

cidates  primarily  only  the  first  of  the  seventy-two  chapters 
composing  the  Yasna,  which  is  itself  but  one  of  the 
five  divisions  (the  liturgical)  of  the  Zoroastrian  Scriptures  ; 
and  though  at  a  later  date  (1844-1846),  he  subjected  the 
ninth  chapter  of  the  Yasna  to  a  similar  though  briefer 
examination,  he  carried  no  further  his  investigations  in  this 
field. 

The  appearance  of  Bopp's  great  work  on  the  Comparative 
Grammar  of  the  Aryan,  or  Indo-Europaean,  languages  about 
this  period  brings  us  to  the  next  great  controversy 
"TKods.''the  which  raged  round  the  A  vesta— that  of  the  Tra- 
ditional and  Comparative  Schools.  By  this  time 
no  sane  and  competent  scholar  had  any  doubt  as  to  the 
genuineness  of  the  book  itself;  the  question  now  was  as  to 
the  worth  of  the  traditional  interpretation  of  the  Zoroastrians. 
Burnouf,  in  so  far  as  he  relied  on  the  traditional  explanation  of 
Neriosengh  (for  the  older  Pahlawi  translations  were  not  at  that 
time  sufficiently  understood  to  be  of  much  use),  belonged  to 
the  former  school ;  Bopp,  pre-eminently  a  Sanskritist  and 
Comparative  Philologist,  to  whom  the  study  of  the  Avesta  was 
a  mere  branch  of  Sanskrit  Philology,  to  the  latter.  The 
publication  (1852-1858)  of  Westergaard's  and  Spiegel's  editions 
of  the  text  greatly  enlarged  the  circle  of  students  who  were 
able  to  attack  on  their  own  account  the  problems  presented  by 
the  Avesta ;  and  what  Darmesteter  calls  "  the  war  of  the 
methods"  (/.<?.,  the  Traditional  and  the  Comparative)  soon 
broke  out  on  all  sides.  Of  the  Traditional  School  the  most 
prominent  representatives  were,  after  Burnouf,  Spiegel,  and 
Justi,  and,  in  a  lesser  degree,  de  Harlez  and  Geiger  :  of  the 
Comparative  School,  Benfey  and  Roth.  Windischmann  held 
a  middle  position,  while  Haug,  at  first  an  ardent  follower  of 
Benfey,  returned  from  India  fully  convinced  of  the  value  of 
the  Parsi  tradition,  and  thereafter  became  one  of  the  pioneers 
of  Pahlawi  studies,  a  path  in  which  he  was  followed  with  even 
more  signal  success  by  West,  "  whose  unparalleled  learning  and 


"THE    WAR   OF   THE  METHODS"         69 

acumen,"  as  Geldner  says,1  "  have  raised  up  Pahlawi  studies 

from   the  lowest   grade  of  science,"   so   that  "  indirectly  he 

became  the  reformer  of  Avesta  studies."     But  it 

Geldner's  enco-  .  LIT 

mium  on  Dar-  was  by  that  incomparable    man,    the    late    James 

mesteter  and  his  J  r 

"historical       Darmesteter,  that    the  judicious  and  almost  ex- 
method.  '  *  J 

haustive  use  of  the  traditional  materials  (combined, 
of  course,  with  a  careful  study  of  the  texts  themselves)  was 
carried  to  its  fullest  extent,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  find  Geldner, 
whose  methods  of  textual  criticism  he  had  so  severely  criticised, 
describing  his  work  and  methods  in  the  following  generous 
words  : — "  2 

"  From  the  beginning  an  eager  partisan  of  the  Sasanian  translation 
and  thoroughly  grounded  in  Pahlawi,  he  in  no  wise  based  his  inter- 
pretation on  this  alone,  but  recognised  that,  amidst  the  strife  as  to 
the  best  method,  only  a  comprehensive  enlargement  of  the  field  of 
vision  could  lead  from  groping  and  guessing  to  clear  and  certain 
knowledge.  His  immediate  sources  of  help  are  the  native  trans- 
lations, carefully  used  in  detail,  and  thoroughly  studied  as  a  whole, 
and  the  entire  learning  accumulated  therein.  His  indirect  means 
of  help  is  the  entire  tradition  from  Sasanian  times  down  to  the 
present  day,  the  whole  Pahlawi  and  Pazand  literature,  the  Shahnama, 
the  Arabian  chroniclers  and  historical  notices  of  the  Ancients, 
personal  information  derived  from  living  Parsis,  their  customs  and 
ideas,  the  ritual  of  the  present  time,  which  is  likewise  a  piece  of 
unfalsified  tradition,  and,  on  the  linguistic  side,  the  entire  material 
of  Iranian  philology  in  all  its  degrees  of  development  and  dialectical 
variations,  and  likewise  Sanskrit,  especially  that  of  the  Vedas.  The 
dispositions  and  beginnings  had,  for  the  most  part,  been  already 
made  before  him,  although  imperfectly,  and  with  insufficient  means, 
but  Darmesteter  combined  them  and  carried  them  on  to  a  certain 
conclusion.  The  ripest  fruit  of  these  endeavours  is  his  most  recent 
monumental  work  :  le  Zend-Avesta,  traduclion  nouvelle  avec  commen- 
taire  historique  et  philologique  (Annales  du  Musee  Guimet,  vols.  xxi, 
xxii,  xxiv,  Paris,  1892-3).  Darmesteter  rejuvenated  the  traditional 
school,  and  is  properly  speaking  the  creator  of  what  he  calls  the 


1  See  Geldner's  excellent  article  (Gcschichte  der  Awesfaforschung)  in 
vol.  ii  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Gntndriss  dcr  Iranischcn  Pltilologie, 
pp.  40-46,  where  full  particulars  and  references  concerning  the  study 
of  the  Avesta  will  be  found.  *  Op.  laud.,  p.  45, 


70      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

historical  method  of  the  study  of  the  Ave^ta,  for  the  elucidation  of 
which  he  collected  an  incomparably  rich  material.  How  far  indeed 
he  succeeded  in  this,  how  far  as  regards  points  of  detail  he  overshot 
the  mark,  the  Future  must  decide." 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  history  of  the  decipherment  of  the 

Pahlawi  inscriptions  and  texts  —  that  branch  of  Persian  philology 

in  which,  despite  the  fruitful  labours  of  cieSacy  and 

Continuation  of    ,  .  c       ,  i     11  i      • 

the  decipher-     his  successors,  or  whom   we  shall    speak   imme- 

nient  of  Pahlawi.     ..        ,  .     ,  .  .....  r    .  .      ..—       . 

diately,  and  the  copious  illumination  or  this  difficult 
study  which  we  owe  in  recent  times  to  West,  Andreas,  Noldeke, 
Darmesteter,  Salemann,  and  others,  most  yet  remains  to  be 
achieved. 

De  Sacy's  brilliant  attempt  to  read  some  of  the  Sasanian 
inscriptions  at  Naqsh-i-Rustam  (situated  on  the  cliffs  which 

lie  to  the  right  of  the  Pulwar  river,  at  the  point 

The  Naqsh-i-          ,  ,  ,  ,  ,          ,  .    , 

Rustam  Sasa-    where  the  valley  through  which    its  course  has 

nian  inscriptions.    ...  i    •        i    i  i          •  i        A  /r  r  \       i          i    • 

hitherto  lam  debouches  into  the  Marv-Dasht  plain 
between  Sfwand  and  Zargun,  and  consequently  opposite  Perse- 
polis,  which  lies  across  the  river,  some  two  or  three  miles 
eastward)  has  been  already  mentioned  (pp.  57-8  supra).  The 
inscription  which  he  especially  studied  was  one  of  the  oldest, 
if  not  the  oldest,  of  those  which  the  Sasanian  monarchs  cut  on 
these  rocks  in  imitation  of  their  Achasmenian  predecessors, 
for  it  dates  from  the  reign  of  Ardashfr  (Artakhshatr)  the  son 
of  Papak,  the  founder  of  this  dynasty  (A.D.  226-241).  It  is 
written  in  two  forms  of  Pahlawi  (the  so-called  Chaldaean  and 
Sasanian),  each  having  its  own  peculiar  script,  and  is  accom- 
panied by  a  Greek  translation,  which  runs  as  follows  :  —  J 


«  TOYTO  TQ  yrposonON  MASAA2NOY  6EOY  APTAfrjoOY  BA2IAEO2 
BA2IAEQN  APIANQN  ffcy^OYS  6EQN  YIOY  6EOY  ITAIIAieOr 
BASIAEQ2." 


1  I  have  taken  the  texts  from  Haug's  Essay  on  Pahlawi  (Stuttgart,  1870), 
pp.  4-5,  and  have  followed  his  method  of  representing  the  obliterated  letters 
of  the  Greek  inscription  by  using  small  type  instead  of  capitals.  When 
I  saw  and  examined  the  inscription  in  March,  1888,  when  on  my  way  from 
the  north  to  Shiraz,  it  had  suffered  still  further  defacement. 


PAHLA  Wt  INSCRIPTIONS  71 

The  Sdsanian  Pahlawi,  when  transliterated,  runs  something 
like  this  : — 

"PATKARI  ZANA  MAZDA YASN  BAGI  ARTAKHSHATR, 
MALKAN  MALKA  AIRAN,  MINU  CHITRI  MIN  YAZTAN,BARA 
PAPAKI  MALKA."' 

The  English  translation  is  : — 

"THE  EFFIGY  OF  THAT  MAZDA-WORSHIPPING  DIVI- 
NITY ARTAKHSHATR,  KING  OF  KINGS  OF  IRAN  (PERSIA), 
OF  SPIRITUAL  ORIGIN  FROM  THE  GODS,  SON  OF  PAPAK 
THE  KING." 

Encouraged   by  the  results  of  this    investigation,   de   Sacy 
proceeded  in  his    third  and  fourth   memoirs   to  examine    the 
Pahlawi  legends  on  certain  Sasanian  coins,  as  well 
deP^^»U?e3iSts  as  otner  inscriptions  from  Behistun  of  the  same 
msrtotogy.       period.     How  his    labours    formed   the   starting- 
point  for  Grotefend's  attempt  to  decipher  the  Old 
Persian  cuneiform  inscriptions  we  have  already  seen  (pp.  60—6 1 
supra).     The  numismatic  portion  of  his  work  was  continued 
by  Ouseley  (1801),  who  succeeded  in  reading  the  legends  on 
some  twoscore    Sasanian    coins;    and   also   (1808-1813)    by 
Tychsen. 

The  character  in  which  the  Pahlawi  books  are  written  differs 

considerably    from    that    of     the   contemporary    monuments 

(inscriptions  and  coins)  of  the  Sasanians,  and  is 

Pahlawi  of        ^  ' 

inscriptions  and  far  more  ambiguous.      It    must    be   remembered 

books.  .  ° 

that,  with  the  exception  of  the  fragments  of 
Pahlawi  papyrus  discovered  some  twenty-two  years  ago  in  the 
Fayyum  in  Egypt,  and  hitherto  unpublished  and  but  partially 

1  The  words  printed  in  italics  are  Huzvarish  (a  term  which  will  be  ex- 
plained presently),  and,  in  reading,  the  Persian  would  replace  the  Aramaic 
equivalent.  Thus  zand  ("  that ")  would  be  read  dn ;  Malkdn-malkd 
(King  of  kings"),  Shdhdn-shdh ;  min  ("from"),  az;  bard  ("son"),  ptir  or 
pnhar ;  and  malkd,  shah. 


72      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

deciphered,  the  oldest  specimen  of  written  Pahlawi  goes  back 
only  to  A.D.  1323 — that  is,  is  subsequent  by  more  than  a  thou- 
sand years  to  the  inscription  cited  above.  During  this  period 
(for  the  last  half  of  which  the  Pahlawi  script  had  ceased  to  be 
used  save  by  the  Zoroastrian  priests  for  the  transcription  of 
works  already  extant)  the  written  character  had  undergone 
considerable  degeneration,  so  that  characters  originally  quite 
distinct  had  gradually  assumed  the  same  form,  thus  giving  rise 
to  polyphony,  or  the  multiple  values  of  single  characters.  This 
polyphony  already  existed  to  some  extent  in  the  inscrip- 
tions, but  in  the  book-Pahlawi  it  has  undergone  so  great  an 
extension  that,  to  take  only  one  instance,  a  single  character 
now  stands  for  the  four  values  z,  d,  g,  y,  each  of  which  had  in 
the  inscriptions  its  separate  graphic  symbol.  Hence  the 
difficulty  of  the  book-Pahlawi,  and  hence  the  value  of  the 
Sdsdnian  inscriptions  in  its  elucidation.  This  value  Marc 
Joseph  Miiller,  professor  at  Munich,  thoroughly 

Miiller-3  eseay.    J  •     j     •        £       *      ^  17  D   L/    • 

recognised  in  his  Lssai  sur  la  langue  Pehlviey 
published  in  the  Journal  Asiatique  of  April,  1839, 
which  essay,  as  Haug  says,  marks  a  fresh  epoch  in  Pahlawi 
studies.  Amongst  the  Zoroastrians,  especially  amongst  the 
Parsis  of  Bombay,  a  traditional  but  corrupt  method  of  readjng 
the  Pahlawi  books  had  been  preserved,  which  resulted  in  a 
monstrous  birth  of  utterly  fictitious  words,  never  used  by  any 
nation  either  in  speech  or  writing,  such  as  boman  (really  bard] 
"  son,"  modd  (really  malyd]  "word,"  Anhoma  (really  dwharmaza) 
"  God,"  jamnuntan  (really  yemaleluntan]  "to  speak,"  and  the 
like.  In  each  instance  the  ambiguous  Pahlawi  character  admitted 
of  this  reading,  as  it  admitted  of  a  dozen  others,  but  a  com- 
parison with  the  less  ambiguous  inscriptional  Pahlawi  sufficed 
in  many  cases  to  establish  the  correct  form,  and  this  control  it 
was  Muller's  merit  to  have  introduced,  though  naturally  it  was 
not  in  every  case  vouchsafed  to  him  to  arrive  at  the  correct 
reading. 

Before  going  further,  it  will  be  proper  to  say  something 


HUZVARISH  73 

more  as  to  the  essential  peculiarity  of  Pahlawi  to  which  we 
have  already  repeatedly  alluded,  namely,  its  Huzvdrish  or 
Zavdrishn  element  of  Aramaic  words  more  or  less  defaced  in 
many  cases  by  the  addition  of  Persian  inflexional  terminations 
and  "  phonetic  complements."  When  a  Pahlawi  text  is  read,  a 
large  proportion  of  the  words  composing  it  are  found  to  be 
Semitic,  not  Iranian,  and,  to  be  more  precise,  to  be  drawn 
from  an  Aramaic  dialect  closely  akin  to  Syriac  and  Chaldaean. 
Now  since  an  ordinary  modern  Persian  text  also  contains  a 
large  proportion  of  Semitic  (in  this  case  Arabic)  words,  which 
are  actually  read  as  they  are  written,  and  are,  in  fact,  foreign 
words  as  completely  incorporated  in  Persian  as  are  the  Greek, 
Latin,  French,  and  other  exotic  words  which  together  con- 
stitute so  large  a  portion  of  the  modern  English  vocabulary  in 
our  own  language,  it  was  at  first  thought  that  the  Aramaic 
element  in  Pahlawi  was  wholly  comparable  to  the  Arabic 
element  in  modern  Persian.  But  a  more  careful  examination 
showed  that  there  was  an  essential  difference  between  the  two 
cases.  However  extensively  one  language  may  borrow  from 
another,  there  is  a  limit  which  cannot  be  exceeded.  It  would 
be  easy  to  pick  out  sentences  of  modern  Persian  written  in  the 
high-flown  style  of  certain  ornate  writers  in  which  all  the 
substantives,  all  the  adjectives,  and  all  the  verbal  nouns  were 
Arabic,  and  in  which,  moreover,  Arabic  citations  and  phrases 
abounded  ;  yet  the  general  structure  of  the  sentence,  the 
pronouns,  and  the  auxiliary  verbs  would  and  must  continue  to 
be  Persian.  Similarly  in  a  sentence  like  "  I  regard  this  expres- 
sion of  opinion  as  dangerous,"  only  four  of  the  eight  words 
employed  are  really  of  English  descent,  yet  the  sentence  is 
thoroughly  English,  and  it  is  inconceivable  that  the  pronouns 
"I  "and  "this,"  or  the  particles  "of"  and  "as,"  should  be 
replaced  by  equivalents  of  foreign  extraction.  In  Pahlawi,  how- 
ever, the  case  is  quite  different.  Haug  goes,  perhaps,  a  trifle 
too  far  when  he  says  (Essay  on  Pahlawi^  pp.  120-121)  "all  the 
case-signs  and  even  the  plural  suffixes  in  the  nouns ;  all  the 


74      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

personal,  demonstrative,  interrogative  and  relative  pronouns  ; 
all  the  numerals  from  one  to  ten  ;  the  most  common  verbs 
(including  the  auxiliaries)  such  as  'to  be,  to  go,  to  come,  to 
wish,  to  eat,  to  sleep,  to  write,  &c.' ;  almost  all  the  prepositions, 
adverbs,  and  conjunctions,  and  several  important  terminations 
for  the  formation  of  nouns,  as  well  as  a  large  majority  of  the 
words  in  general  (at  all  events  in  the  Sasanian  inscriptions),  are 
of  Semitic  origin  ;  "  yet  in  the  main  such  is  the  case,  and 
"  the  verbal  terminations,  the  suffixed  pronouns  and  the  con- 
struction of  the  sentence  "  are  often  the  only  Irdnian  part  of 
the  Pahlawi  phrase,  though  they  are  its  essential  and  charac- 
teristic part.  But  in  addition  to  this  we  have  a  number  of 
monstrous,  hybrid  words,  half  Aramaic,  half  Persian,  which  no 
rational  being  can  imagine  were  ever  really  current  in  speech. 
Thus  the  Semitic  root  meaning  "  to  write  "  consists  of  the  three 
radicals  K,  T,  B,  and  the  third  person  plural  of  the  imperfect 
is  yektibhn  (Arabic,  yaktuburi),  while  the  Persian  verb  is 
nabishtany  napishtan,  or  navishtan.  The  Pahlawi  scribe,  how- 
ever, wrote  y&ktibun-tany  but  assuredly  never  so  read  it  :  to 
him  yektiblin,  though  a  significant  inflected  word  in  Aramaic, 
was  a  mere  logogram  or  ideogram  standing  for  napish-,  to 
which  he  then  added  the  appropriate  Persian  termination.  So 
likewise  for  the  Persian  word  mard^  "man,"  he  wrote  the 
Semitic  gabra,  but  when  he  wished  the  alternative  form  mardum 
to  be  read,  he  indicated  this  by  the  addition  of  the  "  phonetic 
complement,"  and  wrote  gabra-um. 

The  analogies  to  this  extraordinary  procedure  which  exist  in 
Assyrian  have  already  been  pointed  out.  In  the  older  Turdnian 
language  of  Akkad  "father"  was  adda.  "When  the 
Assyrians,"  says  Haug,  "  wished  to  write  c  father,'  they  used 
the  first  character,  ad  or  at,  of  adda,  but  pronounced  it  abt 
which  was  their  own  word  for  *  father  '  ;  and  to  express  '  my 
father,'  they  wrote  atuyay  but  read  it  abuya ;  u  being  the 
Assyrian  nominative  termination,  and  ya  the  suffix  meaning 
*  my,'  which,  in  the  writing,  were  added  to  the  foreign  word 


HUZVARISH  75 

at."  So  in  like  manner  the  Pahlawi  scribe  who  wished  to 
write  "  father  "  wrote  abltar  for  pitar  (pidar\  the  Assyrian  ab 
being  used  as  a  mere  ideogram,  of  which  the  Persian  equivalent 
was  indicated  by  the  "  phonetic  complement "  -tar. 

Another  curious  (and,  in  this  instance,  valuable)  feature  of 
the  Pahlawi  script  was  that  in  the  case  of  a  Persian  word 
recognised  at  that  time  as  compound  and  capable  of  analysis, 
each  separate  element  was  represented  by  a  Semitic  or  Huzvdrish 
equivalent.  Take,  for  instance,  the  common  Persian  verb 
pindashtan,  "  to  think,  deem."  A  modern  Persian  has  no  idea 
that  it  is  capable  of  analysis,  or  is  other  than  a  simple  verb  ; 
but  the  Pahlawi  scribe  was  conscious  of  its  compound  character, 
and  wrote  accordingly  pavan  ( =  pa,  "for")  hand  (=/'», 
"  this  ")  yakhsanun-tan  (=  ddshtan,  "to  hold")  ;  and  NOldeke 
has  called  attention  to  a  similar  analysis  of  the  common  word 
magar  ("unless,"  "if  not"),  which  is  represented  by  two 
Aramaic  words,  or  Huzvdrish  elements,  of  which  the  first 
signifies  "  not "  and  the  second  "if."  And  this  principle  has 
another  curious  and  instructive  application.  The  modern 
Persian  pronoun  of  the  first  person  singular  is  man,  which  is 
derived  from  the  stem  of  the  oblique  cases  of  the  correspond- 
ing Old  Persian  pronoun  a  dam  (=  Avestic  azem],  whereof  the 
genitive  is  mana.  Of  this  fact  the  Pahlawi  script  takes 
cognisance  in  writing  the  Semitic  //,  "  to  me"  (or  "of  me"), 
as  the  Huzvdrish  equivalent  of  man. 

These  considerations,  apart  from  external  evidence,  might 
have  suggested  to  a  very  acute  mind  the  belief  that  the 
peculiarities  of  Pahlawi  lay  almost  entirely  in  the  script,  and 
that  they  disappeared  when  it  was  read  aloud.  Fortunately, 
however,  there  is  sufficient  external  evidence  to  prove  that 
this  was  actually  the  case. 

First,  we  have  the  direct  testimony  of  Ammianus  Marcellinus, 
who  says  (xix,  2,  n)  :  "  Persis  Saporem  et  Saansaan  [i.e., 
Shahan-shah~\  adpellantibus  et  Pyrosen  [i.e.,  Piruz  or  Pertz], 
quod  rex  regibus  imperans  et  bellorum  victor  interpretatur." 


This  notice  refers  to  Shapiir  II  (A. p.  309-379),  whose  title 
stands  on  his  coins  Malkan  malka^  but  was  in  the  actual  speech 
of  the  people,  then  as  now,  Shahdn-shdh. 

Secondly,  we  have  the  direct  testimony  of  the  learned  author 

of  the  Fihrist,  Muhammad  b.  Ishaq  (A.D.  987-8),  who  relies 

here,  as  in  other  places  where  he  speaks  of  matters  appertaining 

to  Sasanian  Persia,  on  the  authority  of  that  remarkable  man 

Ibnu'l-Muqaffa*,     a     Persian    Zoroastrian      who 

Ibnu'l  Muqaffa'.      «-_,^r~— * — *  . 

flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  eighth 
century  of  our  era,  made  a  doubtfully  sincere  profes- 
sion of  Islam,  and  was  put  to  death  about  A.D.  ^6q.  He 
was  reckoned  by  Ibn  Muqla,  the  wazir  and  calligraphist 
(t  A.M.  939),  as  one  of  the  ten  most  eloquent  speakers  and 

writers  of  Arabic,  and  Ibn  Khaldun  the  Moor  pays  a  similar 

j-^^y,— ,,  x  n  ^^  ^f~^^^  "  '^-/i \j 
tribute  to  his  command  of  tnatlanguage  ;  and  with  this  he 

combined  a  thorough  knowledge  of  Pahlawi,  and  translated 
several  important  works  from  that  language  into  Arabic,  of 
which,  unfortunately,  only  one  of  the  least  interesting  (the  Boo^ 
of  KalUa  and  Dimna]  has  survived  to^ouTtmie^T^elyingon 
the  authority  of  this  learned  man,  the  author  of  the  Fihrist, 
after  describing  seven  different  scripts  (Kitdba)  used  in  pre- 
Muhammadan  times  by  the  Persians,  continues  as  follows,  in  a 
passage  to  which  Quatremere  first  called  attention  in  1835, 
but  of  which  the  original  text  was  not  published  till  1866, 
when  Charles  Ganneau  printed  it  with  a  new  translation  and 
some  critical  remarks  on  Quatremere's  rendering  : — 


"  And  they  have  likewise  a  syllabary  [hijd,  "  a  spelling,"  not  kitdba, 

"a  script"]  called  Zawdrishn  [or  Huzvdrisli],  wherein  they  write 

the  letters  either  joined  or  separate,  comprising  about  a  thousand 

vocables,   that    thereby    they    may  distinguish    words    otherwise 

ambiguous.     For  instance,  when  one  desires  to  write  gusht,  which 

means   '  meat,'  he  writes    bisrd  like  this  [here  follows   the   word 

written  in  the  Pahlawi  scnptj,  but  reads  it  as^guslit ;  and  similarly 

\  when  one  desires  to  write  ndn,  which  means  bread,  he  writes  lahmd 

hike  this  [again  follows  the  Pahlawi  word],  but  reads  it  ndn;  and 


RECAPITULATION  77 

so  whatever  they  wish  to  write,  save  such  things  as  have  no  need 
of  a  like  substitution,  which  you  write  as  they  are  pronounced."  * 

Thirdly,  we  have  the  fact  of  the  complete  disappearance  of 
the  whole  Aramaic  or  Huzvarish  element  in  even  the  earliest 
specimens  of  Persian  written  in  the  Arabic  character,  which 
could  hardly  have  occurred  if  these  words  had  ever  been  used 
in  speech,  but  which  was  natural  enough  if  they  belonged  to 
the  script  only,  and  were  mere  ideograms. 

Fourthly,  we  have  the  tradition  surviving  amongst  the 
Zoroastrians  to  the  present  day,  a  tradition  faulty  enough 
in  detail,  as  we  have  already  seen,  but  quite  clear  on  the 
general  principle  that  Huzvarish  words  ought  to  be  read  as 
Persian.  Hence  the  so-called  Pazend  and  Parsi  books,  which 
are  merely  transcriptions  of  Pahlawi  books  into  the  unambiguous 
Avestic  and  Arabic  characters  respectively,  all  the  Huzvarish, 
or  Aramaic,  words  being  replaced  by  their  Persian  equivalents, 
or  supposed  equivalents. 

It  may  be  well  that  we  should  conclude  this  chapter  with 

a  recapitulation  of  the  various   terms  that  have 
Detwmsno1      been   used  in  speaking  of  the  ancient  languages 

of  Persia,  an  explanation  of  their  precise  mean- 
ing, and  a  statement  of  their  etymology,  where  this  is 
known. 

Medic,  the  language  of  Media,  i.e.,  the  western  part  of  what 

we    now    call    Persia,    the     Mdda    of    Darius's 

inscription,  the  Mdhdt  (plural  of  M&h,  which 
occurs  as  a  prefix  in  Mah-Basra,  Mah-Kufa,  Mah-Nahawand, 

T  See  Haug's  Essay  on  Pahlawi,  pp.  37  et  scqq.  ;  Journal  Asiatiqtte  foi 
1835  (p.  256)  and  1866  (p.  430) ;  Fihrist,  ed.  Fliigel,  p.  14.  I  differ  from 
Haug's  rendering  in  several  particulars,  especially  as  regards  the  sense  of 
mutashdbihdt,  which  he  translates  "  [words]  which  have  the  same  mean- 
ing," whereas  I  take  it  to  mean  "  Persian  words  which  would  be 
ambiguous  if  written  in  the  Pahlawi  character,"  but  of  which  the  Huzvarish 
equivalents  are  not  so  ambiguous.  Any  one  who  will  write  nan  in 
Pahlawi  script,  and  then  consider  in  how  many  different  ways  it  can  be 
read,  will  easily  see  where  the  "  ambiguity  "  lies. 


78      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

&c.)  of  the  early  Arabian  geographers,  a  region  having 
for  its  capital  the  ancient  Ecbatana  (Hagmatana  of  the 
inscriptions),  now  called  Hamadan.  Of  this  language  we 
have  no  remains,  unless  we  accept  Darmesteter's  view,  that 
it  is  identical  with  the  language  of  the  Avesta,  or  Oppert's, 
that  it  is  the  language  which  occupies  the  second  place 
(between  the  Old  Persian  and  the  Assyrian  versions)  in  the 
Achasmenian  trilingual  inscriptions.  It  was  in  all  probability 
very  closely  akin  to  Old  Persian,  and  certain  words  of  it 
preserved  by  writers  like  Herodotus  make  it  appear  likely  that 
from  it  are  descended  some  of  the  modern  dialects  of  Persian. 
Avestic^  the  language  of  the  Avesta,  often  improperly  called 
"  Zend,"  sometimes  also  termed  "  Old  Bactrian,"  a  most 
undesirable  name,  since  it  is,  as  we  have  seen, 

Avestic.  .  . 

quite  as  likely  that  its  home  was  in  Atropatene 
(Azarbdyjan)  in  the  north-west  as  in  Bactria  in  the 
north-east.  In  it  is  written  the  Avesta,  and  the  Avesta 
only  ;  of  which,  however,  certain  ancient  hymns  called  Gdthds 
are  in  a  different  dialect,  much  more  archaic  than  that  in 
which  the  remaining  portions  of  the  book  are  composed.  A 
special  character,  constructed  from,  but  far  superior  to,  the 
Pahlawi  script,  is  used  for  writing  it.  The  word  Avesta  can 
scarcely  be  traced  back  beyond  Sasanian  times,  though  Oppert 
believes  it  to  be  intended  by  the  word  abastam  in  Darius's 
Behistun  inscription  (iv,  64).  It  appears  in  Pahlawi  as 
Avlstdk  (Darmesteter,  Apastd/d,  in  Syriac  as  cApastdgd^  in 
Arabic  as  tAbastdq.  Andreas  is  inclined  to  derive  it  from 
the  Old  Persian  upastd  ("help,  support")  and  to  interpret 
it  as  meaning  "  ground-text."  This,  at  any  rate,  is  its 
signification  in  the  term  "  Avesta  and  Zend," 
which  gave  rise  to  the  misleading  "  Zend- 
Avesta  " :  the  "  Avesta "  is  the  original  text  of  the 
Zoroastrian  scripture,  and  the  "  Zend "  is  the  running 
Pahlawi  "explanation"  (translation  and  commentary)  which 
generally  accompanies  it.  If,  therefore,  the  term  "Zend 


RECAPITULATION  79 

language  "  be  used  at  all,  it  should  mean  the  language  of  the 
Zend,  or  explanation,  i.e.,  the  Pahlawi  language  ;  but  as  it  was 
applied  in  Europe,  owing  to  a  misunderstanding  of  the  terms, 
to  the  language  of  the  original  text,  it  is  best  to  drop  the 
expression  "  Zend  language  "  altogether. 

Old  'Persian  is  the  term  which  denotes  the  ancient  language 

of  Persia    proper  (Persis,  Fars),   the  official   language  of  the 

Achaemenian  inscriptions,  and  without  doubt  the 

speech  of  Darius,  Xerxes,  and  the  other  kings  of 

this  house.     It  is  known  to  us  by  the  inscriptions,  and    by 

them  only. 

'Pahlawi^  as  shown  by  Olshausen,  properly  means  Parthian  ; 

for  as  the   ancient   mithray  chithra,  go   into   mihry  chlhr^  so 

Parthava*   the    Old    Persian    name    for    Parthia, 

PahlawL  . 

goes  through  the  analogous  but  hypothetical 
forms  TarhaVj  Talhav,  into  Tahlav,  a  term  applied, 
under  its  Arabic  form  Fah/av,  by  the  old  Arabian  geo- 
graphers to  a  certain  region  of  Central  and  Western  Persia 
said  to  include  the  towns  of  Isfahan,  Ray,  Hamadan  and 
Nahawand,  and  a  part  of  Azarbdyjan.  As  has  been  already 
said,  we  know  but  little  of  the  Parthians  from  native  sources  ; 
so  little  that  it  is  not  certain  whether  they  were  an 
Iranian  or  a  Turanian  race  ;  the  national  legend  takes 
so  little  account  of  them — whom  it  calls  Muluku't-tawffif^ 
"  tribal  kings  " — that  one  single  page  of  the  ShdhnAma  amply 
suffices  to  contain  all  that  Firdawsi  (who  speaks  of  them  as 
illiterate  barbarians  unworthy  of  commemoration)  has  to  say 
of  them  ;  and  the  Sasanian  claim  to  have  revived  the  national 
life  and  faith  crushed  by  Alexander  is  to  some  extent  borne 
out  by  the  Greek  inscriptions  of  the  earlier  Parthian  coins,  and 
the  title  "Phil-Hellenes"  which  it  pleased  their  kings  to 
assume.  Yet  the  name  of  the  "Pahlavas"  was  known  in 
India,  and  survives  to  the  present  day  in  Persia  as  an  epithet 
of  the  speech  and  the  deeds  of  the  old  heroic  days — the  days 
of  the  pahlawdns,  "  heroes,"  or  mighty  warriors.  As  applied 


So      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

to  the  language,  however,  it  has  a  much  less  precise  signification 
in  Persia  than  in  Europe,  where  its  application  is  definitely 
restricted  to  Sasanian  or  "  Middle "  Persian  written  in  its 
appropriate  script  with  the  Aramaic  or  Huzvarish  element 
of  which  we  have  spoken.  But  the  "Pahlawi"  in  which 
Firdawsi's  legendary  monarchs  and  heroes  indite  their  letters, 
the  "high-piping  Pahlavi  "  of 'Umar  Khayyam  and  Hafiz,  the 
Fah/aviyydt,  or  verses  in  dialect,  cited  in  many  Persian  works, 
and  the  "  Pahlawi  "  mentioned  by  Hamdu'llah  Mustawfi  of 
Qazwin,  a  historical  and  geographical  writer  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  as  being  spoken  in  various  parts  of  Persia,  especially 
in  the  north-west,  is  a  much  less  definite  thing.  Tahmurath, 
"the  Binder  of  Demons"  (Div-band),  was  the  first,  according 
to  Firdawsi,  to  reduce  to  writing  "  not  one  but  nearly  thirty 
tongues,  such  as  Greek  (Rumi),  Arabic  (Tazi\  Persian  (  Tarsi), 
Indian,  Chinese  and  Pahlawi,  to  express  in  writing  that  which 
thou  hearest  spoken."  J  Now  Tahmurath  was  the  predecessor 
of  Jamshid,  the  Yima  of  the  Avesta  and  Yama  of  the  Hindu 
books,  an  entirely  mythical  personage  belonging  to  the  common 
Indo-Irauian  Legend,  that  is  to  say,  to  the  remotest  Aryan 
times,  long  before  Avestic  or  Old  Persian,  let  alone  Middle 
Persian,  were  differentiated  from  the  primitive  Aryan  tongue. 
When,  on  the  other  hand,  a  writer  like  the  above-mentioned 
Hamdu'llah  Mustawfi  says  that  "  Pahlawi "  is  spoken  in  a 
certain  village,  he  means  no  more  than  did  a  villager  or 
Quhriid  (a  district  in  the  mountains  situated  one  stage  south 
of  Kashan)  who,  in  reply  to  the  writer's  inquiry  as  to  the 
dialect  there  spoken,  described  it  as  "  Furs-i-qadim"  " Ancient 
Persian."  With  the  Persians  themselves  (except  the  Zoroas- 
trians)  the  term  Pahlawi,  as  a  rule,  means  nothing  more  precise 
than  this ;  but  in  this  book  it  is,  unless  otherwise  specified, 
employed  in  the  narrower  acceptation  of  "  Middle "  or 
"  Sasanian  Persian."  It  is  only  so  far  Parthian  that  the  earliest 
traces  of  it  occur  on  the  *  Abd  Zohar  and  sub-Parthian  coins 
1  Shdhndma,  ed.  Macan,  vol.  i,  p.  18. 


RECA  PI  TULA  TION  8  i 

of  the  third  and  fourth  centuries  before  Christ,  that  is,  during 
the  Parthian  period.1 

Huzvdrish)  Zawdrish,  or  Zawdrishn  has  been  already  ex- 
plained, but  the  derivation  of  the  word  itself  is  more  doubtful. 
Many  rather  wild    etymologies  have   been   pro- 

Huzvarish.  J  /  f>  f 

posed,  such  as   Uastur  Hushangji  s  nuzvan-asur, 
"  tongue  of  Assyria,"  and  Derenbourg's  "  ha  Sursl"  "  this  is 
Syriac  "  ;  but  Haug's  explanation,  that  it  is  a  Persian  verbal 
noun  from  a  verb  zuv&rldan^  "  to  grow  old,  obsolete,"  or  a 
similar  verb,  supposed  by  Darmesteter  to  have  "  grown  old  and 
obsolete"  to  such  an  extent  that  it  is  only  preserved  in  its 
original  sense  in  the  Arabic  zawwara  (verbal  noun  tazwlr\ 
"  he  forced,  concealed,  distorted,  or  falsified  [the  meaning  of 
a  text],  he  deceived,  tricked,  misled,"  is  the  most  probable. 
Anyhow  a  graphic  system  which  writes,  for  example,  "  aetuno 
yemalelunt  aigh  "  for  words  intended  to  be  read  "  etun  goyand 
ku"  (which  is  the  Pazend  or  Parsi  equivalent  of  the  Huzvarish) 
may   fairly  be  described   as   a    "  forcing,"    "  concealing "   or 
"  distorting  "  of  the  speech  which  it  is  intended  to  represent. 
Just  as  Zend  is  the   "  explanation  "  of  an  Avestic  text  in 
Pahlawi,  so  is  Tazend  (  =  paiti-zainti)  a  "  re-explanation  "  of 
a  Pahlawi  text  by  transcribing  it  into  a  character 
Pazpd\dsi?nd      less    ambiguous    than    the   Pahlawi    script,    and 
substituting  the    proper   Persian    words  for  their 
respective  Huzvarish  equivalents.     When  the  Avesta  character 
is  used  for  this  transcription,  the  result  is  called  "  Pazend  "  ; 
when  the  Persian  (/.*.,  the   Arabic)  character  is  adopted,  the 
term  "  Parsi "  is  often  substituted.     In  either  case  the  product 
is  simply  an  archaic  or  archaistic  (for  unfortunately,  owing 
to  the  defective  character  of  the   Parsee  tradition,  no  great 
reliance  can  be  placed  on  its  accuracy  in  points  of  detail)  form 
of  "  modern  "   (/'.*.,  post-Muhammadan)   Persian,  from  which 
the  whole    Aramaic    element   has    disappeared.      Of  several 

1  See  Haug's  Essay,  pp.  30-31,  and  West's  article  on  Pahlawi  Literature 
in  vol.  ii  of  the  Grundriss  d.  Iran,  Philolog.,  p.  75. 

7 


books  such  as  the  Mainyo-i-Khirad^  or  "Spirit  of  Wisdom," 
we  have  both  Pahlawi  and  Pazend  or  Parsi  manuscripts,1 
but  all  genuine  Pazend  texts  ultimately  go  back  to  a  Pahlawi 
original  (though  in  some  cases  this  is  lost),  since  naturally  no 
"re-explanation"  was  felt  to  be  needful  until,  from  long 
disuse,  the  true  nature  of  Pahlawi  began  to  be  forgotten,  and 
the  scribes  and  scholars  skilled  in  its  use  became  nearly 
extinct. 

When  we  speak  of  Modern    'Persian  or  simply  'Persian^  we 

merely  mean  post-Muhammadan   Persian   for  the  writing  of 

which    the    Arabic    character    is    used.       "Old 

Modern  Persian.  .  «n/r-jji          r>  »» 

Persian  (Achaememan),  "  Middle  Persian 
(Sasanian),  and  "  Modern  Persian "  (Musulman)  are  terms 
quite  analogous  to  the  expressions  "  Old  English "  (i.e., 
Anglo-Saxon),  "Middle  English,"  and  "Modern  English" 
now  commonly  used  to  denote  the  different  stages  of  develop- 
ment of  our  own  tongue.  In  this  sense  we  may  without 
objection  apply  the  term  "  Modern  Persian  "  to  the  language 
of  poets  like  Rudagi  who  flourished  nearly  a  thousand  years 
ago,  just  as  we  may  say  that  Shakespeare  wrote  "  Modern 
English  "  ;  but  if  the  application  of  this  epithet  to  a  language 
which  goes  back  at  least  as  far  as  the  ninth  century  of  our  era 
be  disliked,  we  can  only  suggest  that  it  should  be  called 
"  Musulman  Persian,"  a  term,  however,  which  is  not  wholly 
beyond  criticism.  This  language,  as  has  been  already  pointed 
out,  has  changed  less  in  ten  centuries  than  English  has  in 
three,  and  archaisms  of  a  distinctive  character  are  almost 
confined  to  books  composed  before  that  great  turning-point 
of  Muhammadan  history,  the  Mongol  Invasion  of  the  thirteenth 
century. 

Before  concluding  this  chapter,  a  few  words  may  be  fitly 

1  A  facsimile  of  the  Pahlawi  text  of  the  Mainyo-i-Khirad  has  been 
lithographed  by  Andreas  (Kiel,  1882)  ;  the  Pazend  transcription  has  been 
printed  in  the  Roman  character  with  the  Sanskrit  version  and  an  English 
translation  and  glossary  by  West  (Stuttgart,  1871). 


MODERN  DIALECTS  83 

added  concerning  the  dialects  of  Modern  Persian,  to  which 
reference  has  already  been  repeatedly  made  :  I  mean  dialects 
belonging  to  Persia  proper,  and  confined  to  it, 
not  tne  interesting  Iranian  tongues  of  Afghdn- 
istdn,  Baluchistan,  Kurdistan  and  the  Pamirs, 
together  with  Ossetic,  concerning  which  full  information  and 
references  will  be  found  in  the  last  portion  of  the  first  volume 
of  the  excellent  Grundriss  der  Iranischen  Philologie  of  Geiger 
and  Kuhn,  to  which  reference  has  already  been  made  so  fre- 
quently. More  work  remains  to  be  done  here  than  in  any 
other  branch  of  Persian  philology,  notwithstanding  the  labours 
of  Ber£sine,  Dorn,  Salemann,  and  especially  Zhukovski  in 
Russia;  Geiger,  Socin,  Hiibschmann,  and  Houtum-Schindler 
in  Germany  ;  Huart  and  Querry  in  France  ;  and,  to  a  very 
small  extent,  by  myself  in  England.  These  dialects,  which  will, 
without  doubt,  when  better  understood,  throw  an  altogether 
new  light  on  many  dark  problems  ot  Persian  philology, 
may  be  studied  either  orally  on  the  spot  (as  has  been  done 
notably  by  Dorn  in  Mazandaran  and  Gilan  ;  Zhukovski  in 
Central  Persia,  especially  in  the  Kashan  and  Isfahan  districts  ; 
Socin  in  Kurdistan  ;  Houtum-Schindler  at  Yazd  and  Kirman, 
&c.),  or  in  the  scanty  literary  remains,  which,  nevertheless,  are 
far  more  abundant  than  is  generally  supposed.  Of  the  poets 
who  wrote  in  dialect  on  a  large  scale  only  two  are  widely 
and  generally  known,  viz.,  Amir  Pazawdn 
imr  (wnose  poems  have  been  published  by  Dorn)  in 
Mazandaram,  and  Baba  Tahir-i-'Uryan,  whose 
quatrains  (composed  in  what  is  variously  described  as  "  the  dialect 
of  Hamadan  "  or  "  the  Luri  dialect ")  are  widely  cited  and  sung 
in  Persia,  and  have  been  repeatedly  published  there,  as  well  as 
by  Huart  (with  a  French  translation)  in  the  Journal  Asiatique 
for  1885.  The  popularity  of  Baba  Tdhir,  who  may  be  called 
the  Burns  of  Persia,  is  due,  no  doubt,  in  large  measure  to  the 
simplicity  of  his  thoughts,  the  nearness  of  the  dialect  in  which 
he  writes  to  standard  Persian,  the  easy  and  melodious  flow  of 


84 

his  words,  and  their  simple,  uniform  metre  (that  fully  styled 
Hazaj-i-musaddas-i-mahdhuf)  i.e.y  the  hexameter  Hazaj,  of 
which  the  last  foot  in  each  hemistich  is  apocopated,  or  deprived 

of  its  last  syllable,  and  which  runs  :    |u |u | 

u [    four   times  repeated  in  the  quatrain).     Here   are 

three  of  his  best-known  quatrains  : — 

i. 

Chi  khush  bl  mihrabuni  az  du  sar  bi, 
Ki  yak-sar  mihrabuni  dard-i-sar  bi  I 
Agar  Majnun  dil-i-sht'mda'i  ddsht, 
Dil-i-Layld  az  un  shurida-tar  bi  I 

"  How  sweet  is  love  on  either  side  confessed ! 
One-sided  love  is  ache  of  brain  at  best. 
Though  Majnun  bore  a  heart  distraught  with  love, 
Not  less  distraught  the  heart  in  Layla's  breast ! " 

In  this  quatrain  the  only  dialect-forms  are  bl  (==  buvad, 
"is,  will  be"),  and  the  substitution  (common  to  most  of  the 
dialects,  and  prevalent  to  a  great  extent  in  the  standard  Persian 
speech  of  the  present  day,  especially  in  the  South)  of  the 
«-sound  for  d  in  «»,  mihrabuni. 

2. 

Magar  shir  u  palangl,  ay  dil,  ay  dil  I 
Ba-mii  dd'int  bi-jangi,  ay  dil,  ay  dil  I 
Agar  dastum  futi,  khunat  vi-rizhum  : 
Vi-mnum  td  chi  rangi,  ay  dil,  ay  dill 

"Lion  or  leopard  fierce  thou  surely  art, 
Ever  at  war  with  us,  O  heart,  O  heart  ! 
If  I  can  catch  thee,  I  will  spill  thy  blood, 
And  see  of  what  strange  hue  thou  art,  O  heart ! " 

Here  ba-mh  =  ba  mdy  "  with  us  "  ;  while  dastum,  vi-rlzhum^ 
and  vi-vlnum  are  equivalent  respectively  to  dastam  (for  bi-dastam^ 
"into  my  hand  ")>  bi-rlzam  '« I  will  shed  "),  and  bi-blnam  ("I 
will  see  "). 


DIALECTAL  POETRY  85 

3- 

Vi-shum,  vdshum,  azin  'dlam  ba-dar  shunt ! 
Vi-shum,  az  Chin  u  Md-chin  dir-tar  shum  t 
Vi-shum,  az  Hdjiydn-i-Haj  bi-pursum 
Ki  'i'  dirt  bas-i',  yd  dir-tar  shum  t ' 

"Out  of  this  world  I  will  arise,  and  fare 
To  China  and  beyond ;  and  when  I'm  there 
I'll  ask  the  Pilgrims  of  the  Pilgrimage, 
4  Is  here  enough  ?  If  not,  direct  me  where  I ' " 

Here  vt-shum  =  bi-shavamy  "  I  will  go  "  ;  vdsham  =  either 
bdshamy  "  I  will  stay,  abide,"  or  bdz  shavam^  "  I  will  again  go," 
or  "  I  will  go  back  "  ;  dir-tar  =  dur-tar,  "  further  "  j  /'  =  /», 
"  this  "  ;  bas-l  =  bas-astt  "  is  enough." 

Besides  these,  however,  many  other  well-known  poets,  such 
as  Sa'di,  Hafidh,  Pindar  or  Bundar  of  Ray,  Bus-haq  (Abu 
Ishaq),  the  gastronomic  poet  and  parodist  of  Shiraz,  and  others 
enumerated  in  my  article  in  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society's  Journal 
for  October,  1895  (pp.  773-825),  on  "the  Poetry  of  the 
Persian  Dialects,"  composed  occasional  verses  in  various  forms 
of  patois,  though  these  present,  save  in  the  best  and  most 
ancient  manuscripts,  so  hopelessly  corrupt  a  text  that  it  is 
very  difficult  to  make  anything  of  them.  One  very  good  and 
ancient  manuscript,  dated  A.H.  635,  of  a  probably  unique 
Persian  work  on  the  history  of  the  Seljuqs,  entitled  Kitabu 
Rabat?  s-Sudur  .  .  .  .  fi  tawartkht  Kay-Khusraw  wa  Al-i-Saljuqy 
composed  by  Najmu'd-Dm  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  b.  {Alf  b. 
Sulayman  b.  Muhammad  b.  Ahmad  b.  al-Husayn  b.  Himmat 
ar-Rawandi,  and  now  forming  part  of  the  magnificent  library 
of  the  late  M.  Charles  Schefer, contains  numerous  Fahlawiyydt, 
or  verses  in  dialect,  which  appeared  to  me,  on  a  cursory 
examination,  to  merit,  in  spite  of  their  difficulty,  a  careful 
study  on  account  of  the  age  of  the  manuscript  and  the  pre- 
sumable correctness  of  the  text. 

In  the  notices  of  poets  and  poetesses  (eighty-nine  in  number) 
contained  in  ch.  v,  §  6  of  I^amdu'llah  Mustawfi's  excellent 


86      HISTORY  OF  PERSIAN  PHILOLOGY 

Tarikh-i-guzida,  or  "Select  History,"  compiled  in  A.D.  1330, 
the  following  are  mentioned  as  having  composed  verses  in 
dialect  (where  such  verses  are  actually  cited,  an  asterisk  is 
prefixed  to  the  poet's  name)  : — *Abu'l-Majid  Rayagam  of  the 
Qazwin  district  (late  thirteenth  century) ;  Amir  Ka',  also  of 
Qazwin  ;  *Utanj  ZanjanI  ( ?) ;  Pindar  or  Bundar  of  Ray ;  *Julaha 
("the  Weaver")  of  Abhar;  *<Izzu'd-Din  of  Hamadan ;  *Kan- 
i-Karachi  (thirteenth  century).  The  celebrated  poet,  traveller, 
and  Isma'ili  propagandist  Nasir-i-Khusraw  mentions  in  his 
Travels  (Safar-nama^  edited  with  a  French  translation  by 
Schefer,  Paris,  1881,  p.  6  of  the  text)  that  on  his  westward 
journey  in  A.D.  1046  he  was  questioned  by  the  poet  Qatran 
at  Tabriz  as  to  the  meaning  of  certain  verses  in  dialect  of  the 
poet  Manjik,  so  that  we  have  definite  proof  that  such  dialect- 
poetry  has  existed  in  Persia  from  the  eleventh  century  till  the 
present  day.  Asadi's  Persian  Lexicon  (Lughat-i-Furs\  edited 
by  Dr.  Paul  Horn  from  the  unique  Vatican  MS.  (Berlin, 
1897),  another  eleventh  century  work,  also  cites  here  and  there 
verses  in  dialect,  called,  as  usual,  "  Pahlawi."  Of  prose  works 
in  dialect  the  two  most  remarkable  are  both  heterodox,  viz., 
the  "Jawidan-l-Kabir,  one  of  the  principal  books  of  the  Hurufi 
sect  which  arose  in  the  days  of  Tamerlane  (fourteenth 
century),  and  is  partly  written  in  a  West  Persian  dialect;1 
and  a  romantic  history  of  the  Babi  insurrection  in  Mazandaran 
in  1849,  written  in  the  dialect  of  that  province,  and  published 
by  Dorn,  with  a  translation  in  vol.  v  of  the  Melanges  Asiatiques 
(St.  Petersburg,  1866),  pp.  377,  et  seqq. 

The  best-known  dialects  of  Persian  spoken  at  the  present 

day  are  those  of  Mazandaran,  Gilan,  and  Talish  in  the  north  ; 

Samnan  in  the  north-east:  Kashan.  Ouhrud,  and 

List  of  the  ,. 

more  important  Nam    m   the    centre,    with    the    peculiar   Gabn 

dialects.  r 

dialect    of    the    Zoroastrians    inhabiting    Yazd, 

1  See  my  Cat.  of  the  Persian  MSS.  in  the  Cambridge  University  Library, 
pp.  69-86  ;  and  my  article  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  Jan.,  1898  (pp.  61-94),  on 
the  Literature  and  Doctrines  of  the  Humfi  Sect, 


DIALECTS   OF  PERSIA  87 

Kirman,  Rafsinj£n,  &c.  ;  Siwand  in  the  south  ;  Luristan, 
Behbehan  (which  possesses  a  real  poet,  Rida-quli  Khan  by 
name),  and  Kurdistan  in  the  west ;  but  many  other  dialects, 
some  entirely  unknown  to  Europeans,  doubtless  exist  in  out- 
of-the-way  places.  Of  those  hitherto  hardly  studied  the 
Bakhtiyan  idiom  in  the  west  and  the  Sistanf  in  the  east 
most  deserve  careful  attention. 


CHAPTER    III 

THE  PRE-MUHAMMADAN  LITERATURE  OF  THE  PERSIANS,  WITH 
SOME  ACCOUNT  OF  THEIR  LEGENDARY  HISTORY,  AS  SET 
FORTH  IN  THE  BOOK  OF  THE  KINGS. 

IN  a  book  professing  to  treat  of  the  literary  history  of  any 
people  in  its  entirety  it  would  at  first  sight  appear  proper  that 
each  period  and  manifestation  of  the  national 
genius  should,  as  far  as  possible,  receive  an  equal 
amount  of  attention.  In  the  case  of  Persia, 
however,  a  complete  survey  of  the  whole  ground  could  only 
be  made  at  first  hand  either  by  a  combination  of  specialists 
working  together  (as  has  been  done  in  the  truly  admirable 
Grundriss  der  Iranischen  'Philologie  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn,  to 
which  reference  has  already  so  often  been  made),  or  by  a 
scholar  of  such  varied  and  multiple  attainments  as  can  but 
rarely  coexist  in  one  man.  Corresponding  with  the  philo- 
logical divisions  already  laid  down,  we  have  four  separate 
literatures  (though  one  is  perhaps  too  scanty  and  limited  in 
extent  and  character  to  deserve  this  title)  which  may  fairly  be 
called  "  Persian  "  :  to  wit : — 

(i)  The  Old  Persian  Cuneiform  Inscriptions  of  the  Achae- 
menian  kings. 

(ii)  The  Avesta  (or  rather  the  fragments  of  it  which  we 
still  possess),  including  the  more  ancient  Gathds,  written  in 
a  different  and  more  archaic  dialect,  and  believed  by  many  to 
date  from  Zoroaster's  own  time. 


A   PERSONAL  EXPLANATION  89 

(iii)  The  Pahlawi  literature,  including  the  contemporary 
Sdsdnian  Inscriptions. 

(iv)  The  post-Muhammadan,  or  "  Modern  Persian  "  litera- 
ture of  the  last  thousand  years,  which  alone  is  usually  under- 
stood as  "  Persian  Literature." 

To  this  last  we  must  also  add,  for  reasons  advanced  in  Chap.  I 
(PP-  3-4  supra),— 

(v)  That  large  portion  of  Arabic  literature  produced  by 
Persians. 

Now,  of  the  three  more  ancient  languages  and  literatures 
above  mentioned  I  can  claim  only  a  superficial  and  second-hand 
knowledge,  since  the  study  of  Modern  Persian  and  Arabic  is 
amply  sufficient  to  occupy  even  the  most  active  mind  for  a 
life-time.  The  other  literatures  lie  quite  apart,  and  primarily 
require  quite  different  qualifications.  For  the  student  of  Old 
Persian  and  Avestic  a  good  knowledge  of  Sanskrit  is  essential, 
while  a  knowledge  of  Arabic,  Muhammadan  theology,  and  the 
like  is  of  quite  secondary  importance.  For  the  study  of  the 
first,  moreover,  a  knowledge  of  Assyrian,  and  for  the  second,  of 
Pahlawi,  is  desirable ;  while  Pahlawi,  in  turn,  cannot  be  fruit- 
fully studied  save  by  one  well-versed  in  the  Aramaic  languages, 
especially  Syriac  and  Chaldaean.  Wherefore,  since  it  behoves 
an  author  to  write  of  what  he  knows  at  first  hand,  and  since 
my  knowledge  of  the  pre-Muhammadan  languages  and  litera- 
tures of  Persia  is  only  such  as  (with  the  desire  of  extending 
and  completing,  as  far  as  possible,  my  view  of  the  people  whose 
later  history  is  my  chosen  study)  I  have  derived  from  the 
writings  of  experts,  I  would  gladly  have  confined  the  scope  of 
this  book  to  the  post-Muhammadan  period,  whereon  alone  I 
have  any  claim  to  speak  with  authority.  Yet  since  every 
increase  of  knowledge  makes  one  feel  how  much  greater  than 
one  had  supposed  is  the  continuity  of  a  nation's  history  and 
thought,  and  how  much  weaker  are  the  dividing  lines  which 
once  seemed  so  clear,  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  mislead  such 
as  may  read  my  book  as  to  the  true  scope  and  unity  of  the 


QO     LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

subject  by  such  artificial  and  unnatural  circumscription.  I 
began  my  Oriental  studies  with  Turkish,  and  was  soon  driven 
to  Persian,  since  from  the  Persians  the  Turks  borrowed  their 
culture  and  literary  forms.  Soon  I  found  that  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  Arabic  language  and  literature  and  of  the 
Arabian  civilisation  and  culture  one  could  never  hope  to  be 
more  than  a  smatterer  in  Persian.  Still  I  thought  of  the  Arab 
conquest  of  Persia  and  the  conversion  of  the  bulk  of  the 
Persians  to  the  religion  of  Islam  as  a  definite  and  satisfactory 
starting-point,  as  an  event  of  such  magnitude  and  of  so 
revolutionary  a  character  that  it  might  fairly  be  regarded  as 
creating  practically  a  tabula  rasa,  from  which  all  earlier  writing 
had  been  expunged.  But  gradually  it  became  apparent  that 
this  conception  was  very  far  from  the  truth  ;  that  many 
phenomena  of  the  complex  'Abbasid  civilisation,  of  the  early 
religious  history  of  Islam,  of  the  Book  and  Teaching  of  the 
Arabian  Prophet  himself,  could  only  be  understood  in  the 
light  of  earlier  history.1  Inevitably  one  is  carried  back  from 
Muhammadan  to  Sdsdnian  times,  from  Sasdnian  to  Parthian, 
Achaemenian,  Medic,  Assyrian,  primitive  Aryan,  and  I  know 
not  what  besides,  until  one  is  fain  to  exclaim  with  the  Persian 
poet : — 

Mard-i  khiradmand-i-hunar-pisha-rd 
'  Umr  du  bdyast  dar-in  nizgdr, 
Td  bi-yaki  tajriba  dmukhti, 
Dar  digari  tajriba  burdi  bi-kdr ! 

"The  man  of  parts  who  after  wisdom  strives 
Should  have  on  earth  at  least  a  brace  of  lives; 
In  one  experience  he  then  might  learn, 
And  in  the  next  that  same  to  profit  turn  ! " 

Therefore,  unwilling  on  the  one  hand  to  speak  much  of 
matters  wherein  I  have  but  little  skill,  and  on  the  other  to 

1  On  the  influence  of  pre-Muhammadan  systems,  both  political  and 
religious,  on  the  civilisation  of  al-Islam,  von  Kremer's  writings  are 
most  suggestive,  especially  his  little  work  entitled  Streifzuge  auf  dem 
Gcbicte  dc&  Mams, 


ACHAEMENIAN  INSCRIPTIONS  91 

produce  what  I  should  regard  as  an  essentially  defective  and 
misleading  book,  false  to  my  conception  of  what  is  meant  by 
the  Literary  History  of  a  people,  and  faulty  not  only  in 
execution  but  in  conception,  I  have  decided  to  set  forth  briefly 
in  this  chapter  the  main  facts  about  the  Achaemenian  Inscrip- 
tions, the  Avesta,  the  Pahlawi  monuments  and  literature,  and 
the  Zoroastrian  religion,  to  know  which  is  important  even 
for  those  whose  main  interest  lies  in  Modern  Persian.  Of  the 
Sasdnian  period,  and  therefore  incidentally  of  Pahlawi,  the 
official  language  of  that  time  in  Persia,  I  shall  speak  in  greater 
detail  in  the  next  chapter,  since  in  it  lie  the  roots  of  so  much 
that  attracts-  our  attention  in  the  early  Muhammadan  days, 
and  the  gulf  which  severs  it  from  what  precedes  is  so  much 
harder  to  bridge  satisfactorily  than  that  which  divides  it  from 
what  follows.  And  since,  for  literary  purposes,  the  legendary 
is  nearly  as  important  as  the  actual  history  of  a  people,  I  shall 
also  discuss  in  this  chapter  the  Persian  Epos  or  National 
Legend,  which,  as  will  be  seen,  only  approaches  the  real 
National  History  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sasanian  period. 
This  chapter  will  therefore  be  divided  into  four  sections,  which 
may  be  briefly  characterised  as  follows  :  (i)  Achaemenian  j 
(2)  Avestic  j  (3)  Pahlawi ;  and  (4)  National  Legend. 

§  I.  LITERARY  REMNANTS  OF  THE  ACH^MENIANS. 

Our  fullest  knowledge  of  that  first  great  Persian  dynasty 
which  began  with  Cyrus  in  B.C.  559,  and  ended  with  the 
defeat  of  the  last  Darius  by  Alexander,  and  his  tragic  death  at 
the  hands  of  his  two  treacherous  satraps,  Bessus  and  Barzaentes, 
in  B.C.  330,  is  derived  from  Greek  historians,  notably  Herodotus, 
Ctesias,  and  Xenophon  {Anabasis,  Cyropeedia^  Agesilaus],  while 
some  sidelights  may  be  derived  from  such  works  as  the  Tersa: 
of  ./Eschylus.  Of  these  external  sources,  however,  which  have 
been  fully  used  by  those  who  have  written  the  history  of  the 
Achaemenians  (such  as  Rawlinson,  Spiegel,  and  Justi),  I  do 


92    LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

not  propose  to  speak  further,  since  they  lie  rather  in  the 
domain  of  the  classical  scholar  than  of  the  Orientalist.  Raw- 
linson,  however,  in  his  admirable  translation  of  Herodotus, 
points  out  how  much  the  authority  of  that  great  historian  is 
strengthened,  not  only  by  the  Achaemenian  inscriptions,  but 
also  by  the  true  and  convincing  portraits  of  the  national  cha- 
racter which  his  work  contains.  But  for  him,  indeed,  the 
inscriptions,  even  if  deciphered,  must  have  remained  obscure  in 
many  points  which  by  his  help  are  clear,  as,  for  example,  the 
words  in  11.  8-1 1  of  the  first  portion  of  Darius's  great  Behistun 
inscription  :  "  Saith  Darius  the  king  :  *  Eight  of  my  race  who 
were  aforetime  were  kings ;  I  am  the  ninth  :  we  are  kings 
by  double  descent  "  [or,  "  in  a  double  line  "].  In  the  light  of 
the  following  genealogical  tree  deducible  from  Herodotus 
Tolymnia,  vii,  10)  the  meaning  of  this  becomes  evident  : — 

(1)  Achaemenes  (Hakhdmanish) 

(2)  Teispes  (Chdishpish) 


(6)  Ariaramnes  (Ariydrdmna)  (3)  Cambyses  (Kambujiya) 

(7)  Arsames  (Arshdma)  (4)  Cyrus  (Kurusli) 

(8)  Hystaspes  (Vishtdspd)  (5)  Cambyses  (Kambujiya) 

(9)  Darius  (Ddrayavush) 
Xerxes  (Khshaydrshd) 

Ordinarily,  of  course,  Cyrus  (B.C.  559-529)  is  reckoned  the 
first  king  of  the  line  ;  his  son  Cambyses  (B.C.  529-522)  the 
second,  and  Darius  (B.C.  521-485)  the  third  j  but  Darius 
himself  counts  his  own  ancestors  up  to  Achasmenes,  as  well  as 
the  three  kings  (for  he  evidently  includes  Cambyses  the  father 
of  Cyrus  as  well  as  Cambyses  the  son)  of  the  collateral  branch, 
and  so  the  meanings  of  duvitdtaranam,  "in  a  double  line"  (it 
was  formerly  translated  "  from  a  very  ancient  time  "),  and  of 
Darius's  "  I  am  the  ninth  "  become  perfectly  plain, 


ACHMMENIAN  INSCRIPTIONS  93 

Any  observant  traveller  who  visits  Persepolis  and  its  sur- 
roundings will  remark  with  some  surprise  that  the  inscriptions 
of  the  oldest  period  are  the  best  preserved,  while  the  most 
modern  are  the  least  legible.  The  Achaemenian  cuneiform  is 
so  clear  and  sharp  that  we  can  hardly  believe  that  nearly  two 
thousand  four  hundred  years  have  elapsed  since  the  chisel 
which  cut  it  rested  from  its  labour.  The  Sdsdnian  (Pahlawi) 
inscriptions,  though  younger  by  some  seven  hundred  and  fifty 
years,  are  blurred  and  faint  in  comparison  ;  while  the  quite 
recent  inscriptions  in  Modern  Persian  are  almost  obliterated. 
This  seems  to  me  a  type  of  the  three  epochs  represented  by 
them,  and  to  be  reflected  in  the  literary  style  of  their  contents. 
The  great  Darius  is  content  to  call  himself  "  the  Great  King, 
the  King  of  kings,  King  in  Persia,  King  of  the  provinces,  the 
son  of  Vfshtdsp,  the  grandson  of  Arshama,  the  Achaemenian." 
Shdpiir  the  Sasdnian  calls  himself  in  the  Pahlawi  inscription  at 
HajWbdd,  "  the  Mazda-worshipping  divine  being  Shahpuhar, 
King  of  kings  of  Iran  and  non-Irdn,  of  spiritual  descent  from 
God,  son  of  the  Mazda-worshipping  divine  being  Artakhshatr, 
King  of  kings  of  Iran,  of  spiritual  descent  from  God,  grandson 
of  the  divine  being  Pdpak  the  King."  As  for  the  mass  of 
empty,  high-sounding  titles  with  which  the  most  petty  Persian 
rulers  of  later  Muhammadan  times  thought  it  necessary  to 
bedeck  their  names,  they  are  but  too  familiar  to  every  Persian 
student,  and  I  will  not  weary  others  by  such  vain  repetitions. 

I  have  said  that  we  should  rather  speak  of  the  Achaemenian 
inscriptions  as  historical  than  as  literary  monuments  of  the  Old 
Persian  language,  yet  there  is  in  them  a  directness,  a  dignity, 
a  simplicity  and  straightforwardness  of  diction,  which  entitle 
us  to  regard  them  as  having  a  real  literary  style.  The  portion 
of  Darius's  great  inscription  from  Behistun  translated  at 
pp.  31-32  supra,  will  serve  as  one  specimen,  and  here  is 
another,  emanating  from  the  same  king,  from  Persepolis  : — 

"  A  great  god  is  Ahuramazda,  who  hath  created  this  earth,  who 
hath  created  that  heaven,  who  hath  created  man,  who  created  the 


94    LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

gladness  of  man,  who  made  Darius  king,  sole  king  of  many,  sole 
lawgiver  of  many. 

"  I  am  Darius,  the  great  King,  the  King  of  kings,  King  of  lands 
peopled  by  all  races,  for  long  King  of  this  great  earth,  the  son  of 
Vishtasp,  the  Achaemenian,  a  Persian,  son  of  a  Persian,  an  Aryan  of 
Aryan  descent. 

"  Saith  Darius  the  King  :  By  the  grace  of  Ahuramazda,  these  are 
the  lands  of  which  I  held  possession  beyond  Persis,  over  which  I 
held  sway,  which  brought  me  tribute,  which  did  that  which  was 
commanded  them  by  me,  and  wherein  my  Law  was  maintained  : 
Media,  Susiana,  Parthia,  Haraiva  [Herat],  Bactria  [Balkh],  Sughd, 
Khwarazm  [Khiva],  Drangiana,  Arachosia,  Thatagush  [the  Sata- 
gydae],  Gandara,  India,  the  Haumavarka  Sacse  and  Tigrakhuda  Sacae, 
Babylon,  Assyria,  Arabia,  Egypt,  Armenia,  Cappadocia,  Sparda, 
the  lonians,  the  Sacae  across  the  sea,  Skudra,  the  crown-wearing 
lonians,1  the  Putiya,  the  Kushiya,  the  Machiya,  the  Karkas. 

"  Saith  Darius  the  King  :  When  Ahuramazda  saw  this  earth  .  .  ., 
then  did  He  entrust  it  to  me,  He  made  me  King,  I  am  King,  by  the 
grace  of  Ahuramazda  have  I  set  it  in  right  order,  what  I  commanded 
them  [i.e.,  men]  that  was  carried  out,  as  was  my  Will.  If  thou 
thinkest,  '  How  many  were  the  lands  which  King  Darius  ruled  ? ' 
then  behold  this  picture  :  they  bear  my  Throne,  thereby  thou 
may'st  know  them.  Then  shalt  thou  know  that  the  spears  of  the 
men  of  Persia  reach  afar ;  then  shalt  thou  know  that  the  Persian 
waged  war  far  from  Persia. 

"  Saith  Darius  the  King  :  What  I  have  done,  that  did  I  all  by  the 
grace  of  Ahuramazda  :  Ahuramazda  vouchsafed  me  help  till  I  com- 
pleted the  work.  May  Ahuramazda  protect  me  from  .  .  .,  and 
[likewise]  my  House  and  these  lands  !  For  this  do  I  pray  Ahura- 
mazda :  may  Ahuramazda  vouchsafe  me  this  ! 

"  O  man  !  This  is  Ahuramazda's  command  to  thee  :  Think  no 
evil ;  abandon  not  the  right  path  ;  sin  not ! " 

One  curious  phenomenon  presented  by  one  of  the  latest 
Achaemenian  inscriptions  (that  of  Artaxerxes  Ochus, 
B.C.  361-336)  deserves  a  passing  notice.  Does  some  subtle 
connection  exist  between  the  decay  of  a  language  and  the 
decay,  or  at  least  temporary  subordination,  of  a  race  ?  I  have 

1  This  explanation  is,  I  believe,  now  challenged.  Professor  Cowell 
used  to  teach  that  it  referred  to  the  Kpwj3v\os,  a  crown  of  hair,  fastened 
by  a  golden  grasshopper,  which  was  worn  by  the  Athenians  till  the  time 
of  Thucydides, 


THE  A  VESTA  95 

heard  it  said  by  English  scholars  that  already  before  the  Battle 
of  Hastings  the  Anglo-Saxon,  or  Old  English,  language  had, 

to  a  great  extent,  ceased  to  be  written  grammati- 

Dfagnegu^e°"d°f  C^Y)  an^  tnat  lt  was  m  ^  decadence  before  the 

Tascri'ptions?'    Norman  invasion.     As  regards  the  Old    Persian 

language,  at  least,  this  appears  to  be  beyond 
doubt ;  and  in  the  inscription  to  which  reference  is  made 
above  we  find  such  errors  in  declensions  and  cases  as  bum&m 
("earth,"  ace.  case)  for  bum'im  ;  asmanam  ("heaven,"  ace. 
sing.)  for  asmanam;  shayatam  ("joy,"  ace.  sing.)  for  shiydtim ; 
martihyd  ("of  men,"  gen.  pi.)  for  martiyahya ;  khshdyathiya 
("king,"  nom.  for  ace.  sing.),  and  the  like.  And  concur- 
rently with  this  decay  of  language  appear  signs  of  a  degenera- 
tion in  creed  ;  Ahuramazda  no  longer  stands  alone,  but  is 
associated  with  other  gods,  Mithra  (the  Sun)  and  Anahita 
(Venus). 

§  II.  THE  A  VESTA. 

We  have  already,  in  Chapter  I,  touched  on  some  of  the 
general  questions  connected  with  the  origin,  age,  and  home  of 
the  Avesta,  and  the  language  in  which  it  is  written — questions 
not  admitting,  unfortunately,  of  very  precise  or  certain 
answers.  Geldner's  article  on  "  Zoroaster "  in  the  ninth 
edition  of  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica  (1888),  and  Dar- 
mesteter's  French  translation  of  the  Avesta  in  the  Annales 
du  Musle  Gutmet^  vols.  xxi,  xxii,  xxiv  (1892—3),  may  be 
taken  as  representing  the  two  extreme  views.  According  to 
the  former,  part  of  the  Avesta  at  least  (the 
Gvfe'^sr(i888)!er  Gathas)  represented  the  actual  utterances  of 
Zoroaster  or  his  immediate  disciples  ;  Bactria  was 
the  scene  of  his  activity,  and  its  language  the  vehicle  of  his 
teaching  ;  the  King  Vishtasp  (Gushtasp,  Hystaspes),  whom 
he  converted,  and  who  became  the  zealous  patron  and 
protector  of  his  creed,  "  has  no  place  in  any  historical  chrono- 
logy," "  must  have  lived  long  before  Cyrus,"  and  "  must  be 


96    LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

carefully  distinguished  from  Hystaspes  the  father  of  Darius  ;  " 
and  the  period  at  which  he  flourished  may  have  been  any- 
thing from  B.C.  1000  (Duncker)  to  B.C.  1400  (Gutschmid). 
According  to  the  latter,  the  Zoroastrian  scriptures  of  Achae- 
menian  times  (if  they  ever  existed)  entirely 

Darmesteter's  •  i_     j        r  A  i  j      »       •  •  i. 

later  views  perished  after  Alexander  s  invasion  ;  the  con- 
struction of  the  Avesta  (of  which  we  now  possess 
a  portion  only)  began  in  the  first  century  of  our  era,  in  the 
reign  of  the  Parthian  Vologeses  I  (A.D.  51-78),  was  continued 
under  the  Sasanians  until  the  reign  of  Shapur  II  (A.D.  309- 
379),  and,  in  its  later  portion,  was  largely  influenced  by  the 
Gnosticism  of  the  Alexandrian  or  Neo-Platonist  philosophy  ; 
Media  was  the  home  of  the  Zoroastrian  doctrine,  and  the 
Medic  language  its  vehicle  or  expression ;  and  the  origin  of 
the  Zoroastrian  creed  goes  back  (as  definitely  stated  in  such 
Pahlawi  books  as  the  Arda  Fir  of  N&mak  and  the  Bundahish) 
only  to  a  period  of  three  centuries  or  less  before  Alexander's 
time,  that  is,  to  the  sixth  or  seventh  century  before  Christ,  or, 
in  other  words,  to  a  period  slightly  more  remote  than  the 
beginning  of  the  Achaemenian  dynasty. 

The  views  advanced  by  Darmesteter,  though  they  have  not 
commanded  general  assent,  have  nevertheless  greatly  modified 
those  of  the  other   school,  notably  of  Geldner, 
GvJewe(ri8^6)er    especially  by  causing  them  to  pay  much  greater 
attention    to    the    traditions    embodied    in    the 
Pahlawi,    Parsi,   and    early    Muhammadan    writings.      Thus 
Geldner,  in  the  interesting  article  on  the  Avesta  contributed 
by  him  to  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss  (1896),  while  with- 
holding his  assent  from  some  of  Darmesteter's  most  revolu- 
tionary views  as  to  the  modern  origin  of  the  Avesta  in  the 
form   known   to   us,  attaches  great  importance  to  the   Parsi 
tradition ;    identifies    Zoroaster's   King    Hystaspes   with    the 
historical  father  of  Darius  ;  makes  Zoroaster  a  contemporary 
of  Cyrus  the  Great  ;  fixes,  accordingly,  the  earliest  limit  or 
the  Avesta  as  B.C.  560  ;  admits  the  destruction  of  the  original 


THE  A  VEST  A  97 

Avesta  during  the  period  separating  Alexander's  invasion  from 
the  reign  of  Vologescs  I,  who  first  began  its  reconstruction,  a 
work  renewed  with  vigour  by  Ardashfr,  the  founder  of  the 
Sasanian  dynasty  ;  and  allows  that  additions  may  have  con- 
tinued to  be  made  to  it  till  the  reign  of  Shapur  II  (A.D.  309- 
379).  He  still  holds,  however,  that  the  Gathas  are  not 
only  the  oldest  portion  of  the  Avesta,  but  represent  the  actual 
teachings  and  utterances  of  Zoroaster,  of  whose  real,  historical 
character  he  remains  firmly  persuaded  ;  and  adduces  good 
historical  evidence  against  Darmesteter's  view  that  the  Gathas 
are  to  be  regarded  as  reflecting  Alexandrian  Gnosticism,  or 
that  the  Vohu-mano  (Bahman)  which  appears  so  frequently  in 
them  owes  its  origin  to  the  Xoyo?  0aoe  of  Philo  Judasus. 

Since  Anquetil's  time  it  has  been  well  known  that  the 
Avesta,  as  we  now  possess  it,  is  only  a  fragment  of  the  entire 
work  which  existed  even  in  the  Sasanian  period  ; 
ThA^unian  w^ile  this  in  turn  was  "  not  more  than  a  single 
priest  could  easily  carry  in  his  head "  out  of  the 
Avesta  "  written  with  gold  ink  on  prepared  ox-hides  and  stored 
up  in  Stakhar-Papakan,"  which  was  destroyed  by  "  the  accursed 
Alexander  the  Roman."  Yet  the  Vendidad,  which  constitutes 
a  considerable  portion  of  the  existing  Avesta,  makes  a  fair- 
sized  volume,  and  it  was  but  one  of  the  twenty-one  nosh  into 
which  the  Sasanian  Avesta  was  divided,  and  of  which  the 
contents  are  in  some  measure  known  to  us  from  the  Pahlawf 
Dinkard^  a  very  important  work,  dating,  probably,  from  the 
ninth  century  of  our  era.  These  twenty-one  nosks^  of  which 
the  Pahlawi  names  are  known  to  us,1  were  divided  equally  into 
three  groups — the  gdsanl^  (mainly  theological  and  liturgical), 
the  dc'itik  (mainly  legal),  and  the  hdtak-mansarlk  (philosophical 
and  scientific).  Of  the  seven  nosks  constituting  the  first 
group  (intended  principally  for  the  priests)  we  still  possess 
fragments  of  three — the  Stot-yasht^  the  Bako,  and  the  Hdtokht ; 
of  the  second  seven  (intended  for  the  laity)  also  three — the 
1  See  Geldner  in  the  Grundriss,  vol.  ii,  pp.  18,  20. 


98    LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

Vendidad)  and  parts  of  the  Huspdram  and  Bakan-yasht ;  while 
the  third  group,  appealing  to  the  more  limited  circle  of  learned 
and  scientific  men,  has  unfortunately  (probably  for  that  very 
reason)  perished  entirely.  According  to  West's  conjecture, 
these  twenty-one  nosks,  which  composed  the  Sasanian  Avesta, 
contained  in  all  about  347,000  words,  of  which  we  now 
possess  only  some  83,000,  or  about  a  quarter.  Concerning 
the  division  above  mentioned,  Geldner  remarks  that  it  is 
"  partly  artificial,  and  is  based  on  the  attempt  to  establish  a 
strict  analogy  between  the  whole  Avesta  and  the  Ahuna- 
Fairya  verse,  which  is  regarded  as  the  quintessence  and  original 
foundation  of  the  whole  Avesta  revelation."  This  remark 
suggests  two  interesting  analogies  with  later 
times,  and  serves  to  illustrate  what  has  been 
already  said  as  to  the  remarkable  persistence  or 
recurrence  of  ideas  in  the  East — a  phenomenon  of  which  I 
have  elsewhere  spoken  in  greater  detail.  The  first  of  these 
is  embodied  in  a  Shi'ite  tradition  ascribed  to  'AH,  which  runs 
as  follows  : — 

"All  that  is  tn  the  Qur'dn  is  in  the  Suratu'l-Fdtiha  [the  opening 
chapter],  and  all  that  is  in  the  Suratu'l-Fdtiha  is  in  the  Bismilldh 
[the  formula  'In  the  name  of  God,  the  Merciful,  the  Forgiving,1 
which  stands  at  the  head  of  every  chapter  except  one  of  the 
Muhammadan  Scripture,  and  which  is  used  by  Muhammadans 
when  entering  on  any  undertaking],  and  all  that  is  in  the  Bismi'lldh 
ts  in  the  B  of  the  Bismi'lldh,  and  all  that  is  in  the  B  of  the  Bismi'lldh 
is  in  the  point  which  is  under  the  B,  and  I  am  the  Point  which  is  undct 
the  B" 

The  second  is  the  further  expansion  and  application  of  this 
idea  by  the  Bab,  the  founder  of  the  last  great  religious  move- 
ment in  Persia,  who  was  put  to  death  in  1 850  at  Tabriz  ;  for 
he  declared  19 — the  number  of  the  letters  in  the  Bismi'llah — 
to  be  the  "Unity"  (in  Arabic  JVahidy  "One,"  in  which, 
curiously  enough,  the  numerical  values  of  the  component 
letters  add  up  to  19)  which  was  at  once  the  intelligible  Mani- 


,    THE    AVESTA  99 

festation  of  the  Ineffable  One  and  the  proper  numerical  base  of 
all  computation,  so  that  he  made  his  books  to  consist  of  19 
"Unities,"  each  containing  19  chapters,  and  the  year  to 
consist  of  19  months  of  19  days  each  (=361  days). 

The    existing    Avesta,  as   already   said,   contains    but   one 

complete  nosk  out  of  the  twenty-one  which  it  comprised  in 

Sasanian  times,  viz.,  the  Vendidad ;  while  portions 

DrescntnAvestae  °^  at  ^east  ^our  otners  enter  into  the  composition 
of  the  Yasna,  and  other  fragments  are  preserved 
in  some  Pahlawi  books,  notably  the  Husparam  in  the  Niran- 
gistan.  The  extant  books  and  religious  formulas  of  the  Avesta 
are  divided  into  five  chief  groups  or  sections,  which  are  as 
follows  : — 

1.  The   Tasna^  or  liturgical  portion,  consisting  of  hymns 
recited  in  honour  of  the  different  angels,  spirits,  and  divine 

beings.  It  comprises  seventy-two  chapters  (called 
haiti  or  ha\  symbolised  by  the  seventy-two 
strands  which  compose  the  kushti^  or  sacred  girdle,  investiture 
with  which  constitutes  the  formal  admission  of  the  young 
Zoroastrian  to  the  Zoroastrian  Church.  In  it  are  included 
the  ancient  Gathas  to  which  reference  has  already  been  made. 

2.  The  Vuptrtd)  comprising  23-27  chapters  (called  karde}y 
is  not  an  independent,  coherent,  and  self-contained  book,  but 

a  collection  of  formulae   and    doxoloeies   similar 

TheVispered.  .       b      . 

and  supplementary  to  the  Yasna,  in  conjunction 
with  which  it  is  used  liturgically. 

3.  The    Vendidady  or   "  Law   against  the  demons,"    is,  in 
Geldner's  words,    "  the  Leviticus  of  the   Parsis,  the   Eccle- 
siastical Law-book,  which  prescribes  the  priestly 

The  Veudidid.  . .,  .      .  } 

purifications,  expiations,  and  ecclesiastical  pen- 
ances," and  comprises  twenty-two  chapters  (fargard}.  Of 
these,  the  first,  describing  the  successive  creation  by  Ormuzd 
(Ahura  Mazda)  of  the  good  lands,  and  the  counter-creation 
by  Ahriman  (Ariro  Mainyush)  of  a  corresponding  evil  in 
each  case,  has  been  the  chief  basis  of  all  discussion  as  to  the 


ioo  LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

regions  originally  known  to  and  inherited  by  the  people 
of  the  A  vesta. 

4.  The  Tashts^  twenty-one  in  number  (cf.  p.  98, 1.  5  mpra\  are 

hymns  in  honour  of  the  various  angels  and  spiritual  beings,  the 

Amshaspands   and   Izads*  one   of    whom    presides 

TheYashts.  ,       .  ,  .  i        r     t          i  • 

over,  and  gives  his  name  to,  each  or  the  thirty 
days  which  constitute  the  Zoroastrian  month.  Originally, 
as  the  Parsis  hold,  each  of  these  had  his  appropriate 
Yasht ;  so  that  it  would  appear  that  nearly  a  third  part  of 
this  portion  of  the  Avesta  has  been  lost.  This  mention  of 
the  Zoroastrian  calendar  reminds  me  of  another  illustration  of 
Another  iiiustra-  t^iat  resurgence  of  ancient  religious  beliefs  and 
genets  observances  in  the  East  of  which  I  have 
gfousCdoctrines  already  spoken.  The  Zoroastrian  year  comprises 

and  observances    J2    months    of   ^    days    each)  tQ    which    are   a(]ded 

5  extra  days,  called  the  gatMs.  The  year,  in  short,  is  a  solar 
year,  comprising,  like  our  own,  365  days,  with  a  suitable 
arrangement  for  further  intercalation.  The  modern  Babis, 
wholly  Muhammadan  in  outward  origin,  and  ultra-Shf'ite  in 
their  earlier  stages  of  development,  abandoned  the  Muham- 
madan lunar  year  (which  falls  short  of  the  solar  by  about  n 
days),  and,  taking  as  their  numerical  base  their  favourite 
number  19,  substituted  for  it  a  solar  year  consisting  of  19 
months  of  19  days  each,  making  a  total  of  361  (  =  19  x  19) 
days,  which  were  supplemented  as  required  to  maintain  the 
correspondence  between  the  calendar  and  the  real  season,  by 
some  or  all  of  the  five  extra  days  which  represented  the 
numerical  value  of  the  Bab's  title  (B  =  2,  A  =  i,  B  =  2),  and 
were,  in  the  Babf  phrase,  fixed  "  according  to  the  number  of 
the  Hd"  t.e.y  of  the  Arabic  letter  which  stands  for  five.  More 
than  this,  each  day  of  the  Babf  month,  and  each  month  of  the 
B&bi  year,  is  consecrated  to,  and  derives  its  name  from,  some 
attribute,  aspect  or  function  of  the  Deity,  just  as  each  day  and 
each  month  of  the  Zoroastrian  year  stand  in  a  similar  relation 
to  one  of  the  angelic  beings  who  constitute  the  Zoroastrian 


THE  AVESTA  101 

spiritual  hierarchy.  The  only  difference  between  the  two 
systems — the  most  ancient  and  the  most  modern  which  Persia 
has  produced — lies  in  the  substitution  of  attributes  for  Angels 
by  the  Babis,  and  further  in  the  fact  that  to  only  twelve  of  the 
thirty  Amshaspands  and  Izads  who  preside  over  the  days  of  the 
month  are  allotted  months  also,  while  with  the  Babis  the  same 
nineteen  names  serve  for  both  purposes.  In  both  calendars 
the  week  plays  no  part ;  in  both  it  happens  once  in  each  month 
that  the  same  name  indicates  both  the  month  and  the  day ;  and 
in  both  cases  such  days  are  observed  as  festivals.  Yet  it 
is  most  improbable  that  the  Bab,  who  was  a  Sayyid,  and,  ere  he 
announced  his  Divine  mission  (A.D.  1844),  an  ultra-zealous 
Shi'ite,  holding  all  unbelievers  as  unclean  and  to  be  sedulously 
avoided  (he  enjoins  in  the  Persian  Bayfin  the  expulsion  of  all 
who  refuse  to  accept  his  doctrine,  save  such  as  are  engaged 
in  avocations  useful  to  the  community,  from  the  five  principal 
provinces  of  Persia),  had,  or  would  have  condescended  to 
acquire,  any  direct  knowledge  of  the  Zoroastrian  religion 
and  practices  ;  and  the  same  applies  to  the  many  striking 
analogies  which  his  doctrine,  and  even  phraseology,  present 
with  those  of  the  Isma'Ilis  and  other  older  sects  ;  so  that  we 
are  almost  driven  to  regard  a  certain  circle  of  religious  and 
philosophical  ideas  as  endemic  in  Persia,  and  liable  at  any 
moment,  under  a  suitable  stimulus,  to  become  epidemic.  To 
this  point  we  shall  have  repeated  occasion  to  recur  later. 

5.  The  Khorda   Avesta,  or   "  Little   Avesta,"  is  a  kind  of 
prayer-book  or  religious  chrestomathy  compiled  for  the  use  of 

the  laity  in  the  reign  of  Shapur  II  (A.D.  310—379) 
ThA^t°ada      by  the  priest,  Adharpadh  Mahraspand.    It  consists 

partly  of  selections  from  the  whole  Avesta,  partly  of 
formulae  written  in  Pazend  (see  pp.  81-2  supra]  ;  and  comprises 
the  five  Nydyishes  (prayers  addressed  to  the  Sun,  the  Moon, 
Mithra,  the  Genius  of  the  Water,  and  the  Bahram-Fire),  the 
five  Gdhs,  the  greater  and  lesser  Slruza  ("thirty  days"),  and 
the  four  Afr'ing&n^  or  blessings. 


102   LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

Such,  with  the  independent  fragments  preserved  in  Pahlawf 

books   like    the    Nirangistdn    (chief  amongst  which  are   the 

Aogemadaeca  and  H.adbkht-nosk\  is  that  remnant 

Review  of  the  ._  .  .  ,  .    .  , 

Avesta  as  a     of  the  Zoroastnan  scriptures  which  we  now  know 

whole.  _  .  .  i     •     t 

as  the  Avesta.  Intensely  interesting  though  it  be 
as  an  ancient  document  embodying  the  doctrines  of  so  cele- 
brated a  person  as  Zoroaster,  and  the  tenets  of  an  old-world 
faith  which  once  played  an  important  part  in  the  world's 
history,  and  which,  though  numbering  at  the  present  day  not 
ten  thousand  adherents  in  Persia,  and  not  more  than  ninety 
thousand  in  India,1  has  profoundly  influenced  other  religions  of 
intrinsically  greater  importance,  the  Avesta  cannot  be  described 
as  either  pleasant  or  interesting  reading.  It  is  true  that  the 
interpretation  of  many  passages  is  doubtful,  and  that  better 
understanding  might  lead  to  higher  appreciation  of  these  ;  but, 
speaking  for  myself,  I  can  only  say  that  while  my  appreciation 
of  the  Qur'an  grows  the  more  I  study  it  and  endeavour  to 
grasp  its  spirit,  the  study  of  the  Avesta,  save  for  philological, 
mythological,  or  other  comparative  purposes,  leads  only  to  a 
growing  weariness  and  satiety.  The  importance  of  its  place  in 
the  history  of  religious  thought,  as  well  as  its  interest  from  an 
antiquarian  and  philological  point  of  view,  will  ever  attract  to 
it  a  certain  number  of  devoted  students,  apart  from  those  who 
regard  it  as  a  Revelation  and  a  Law  from  God  ;  but  to  me  it 
is  doubtful  whether  any  translation  of  it  could  be  made  which 
the  ordinary  reader  of  average  curiosity  and  intelligence  would 
be  willing  to  read  through  from  cover  to  cover,  save  for  some 
special  purpose.  At  any  rate  the  number  of  translations  into 
English,  French,  and  German  is  sufficiently  large  to  enable 
any  one  who  chooses  to  try  the  experiment  for  himself, 
and  the  citation  of  selected  passages  in  this  place  appears  quite 
superfluous. 

1  See  Mademoiselle  D.  Menant's  Les  Parsis  (Paris,  1898),  pp.  52-56. 


PAHLAWt  INSCRIPTIONS  103 


§  III.  THE  PAHLAWI  LITERATURE. 

The  earliest  traces  of  the  Pahlawi  language  (of  which,  as 

already  pointed    out,  the    apparent  mingling  of  Semitic  and 

Iranian  words,  brought  about  by  the  use  of  the 

Pahlawi  legends  .    °  J 

on  coins  (B.C.    Huzvarish  system,  is  the  essential  feature)  occur,  as 

300— A.D  695).  .'  rni-ox- 

nrst  pointed  out  by  .Levy  of  Jtsreslau  in  IOO7,1  on 
sub-Parthian  coins  of  the  end  of  the  fourth  and  beginning  of 
the  third  century  before  Christ — in  other  words,  soon  after  the 
end  of  the  Achaemenian  period  ;  and  Pahlawi  legends  are  borne 
by  the  later  Parthian,  all  the  Sasanian,  and  the  early  Muham- 
madan  coins  of  Persia,  including  amongst  the  latter  the  coins 
struck  by  the  independent  Ispahbads  of  Tabaristan,  as  well  as 
those  of  the  earlier  Arab  governors.  The  Pahlawi  coin-legends 
extend,  therefore,  from  about  B.C.  300  to  A.D.  695,  when  the 
Umayyad  Caliph  'Abdu'l-Malik  abolished  the  Persian  currency 
and  introduced  a  coinage  bearing  Arabic  legends.2 

The  Pahlawi  inscriptions  date  from  the  beginning  of 
Sasanian  times,  the  two  oldest  being  those  of  Ardashir  and 
Shapur,  the  first  and  second  kings  of  that  illustrious 
house  (A.D.  226-241  and  241-272)  ;  and  they  ex- 
tend down  to  the  eleventh  century,  to  which  belong 
the  inscriptions  cut  in  the  Kanheri  Buddhist  caves  in  Salsette 
near  Bombay  by  certain  Parsfs  who  visited  them  in  A.D.  1009 
and  1 02  r.  Intermediate  between  these  extremes  are  ten 
signatures  of  witnesses  on  a  copper-plate  grant  to  the  Syrian 
Christians  of  the  Malabar  coast.  The  grant  itself  is  engraved 
in  old  Tamil  characters  on  five  copper  plates,  and  a  sixth  con- 
tains the  names  of  the  twenty-five  witnesses  attesting  it,  of 
which  eleven  are  in  Kufic  Arabic,  ten  in  Sasanian  Pahlawi,  and 
four  in  the  Hebrew  character  and  Persian  language.3 

1  Z.D.M.G.,  xxi,  pp.  421-465. 

*  See  the  Arab  historians — e.g.,  Dinawarl  (ed.  Guirgass,  1888),  p.  322. 
»  See  Haug's  Essay  on  Pahlawi,  pp.  80-82  ;  West's  article  on  Pahlawi 
Literature  in  the  Gntndriss,  vol.  ii,  p.  79,  and  the  references  there  given. 


104  LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

Of  the  age  of  the  Pahlawi  literature,  properly  so  called,  we 

have  already  spoken  (pp.  7-8  supra}.     It  was  essentially  the 

Persian  literature  of  the  Sasanian  period,  but  was 

mature.  naturally  continued  for  some  time  after  the  fall  of 
that  dynasty.  Thus  the  Gujastak  dbalish  ndmak, 
to  which  reference  has  already  been  made,  narrates  a  discussion 
held  between  an  orthodox  Zoroastrian  priest,  Atur-farnbag 
son  of  Farrukh-zad,  and  a  heretical  dualist  (perhaps  a  Mani- 
chaean)  in  the  presence  of  the  'Abbasid  Caliph  al-Ma'mun 
(A.D.  813-833),  so  that  the  period  to  which  this  literature 
belongs  may  be  considered  to  extend  from  the  third  to  the 
ninth  or  tenth  centuries  of  our  era,  at  which  time  the  natural 
use  of  Pahlawi  may  be  considered  to  have  ceased,  though  at  all 
times,  even  to  the  present  day,  learned  Zoroastrians  were  to  be 
found  who  could  compose  in  Pahlawi.  Such  late,  spurious 
Pahlawi,  however,  commonly  betrays  its  artificial  origin,  notably 
by  the  confusing  of  the  adjectival  termination  -Ik  with  the 
nominal  or  substantival  termination  -M,  both  of  which  are 
represented  by  -/  in  Modern  Persian. 

Of  actual  written  Pahlawi  documents,  the  papyrus-fragments 

from  the  Fayyum  in  Egypt,  which  West  supposes  to  date  from 

the  eighth  century  of  our  era,  are  the  most  ancient, 

ma^frTp'ts.     and  after  them  there  is  nothing  older    than    the 

MS.  of  the  Pahlawi  Yasna  known  as  "  J.  2,"  which 

was  completed  on  January  25,  A.D.  1323.    Pahlawi  manuscripts 

naturally  continue  to  be  transcribed  amongst  the  Parsis  down 

to  the  present  day,  though  since  the  introduction  of  Pahlawi 

type,  and  the  gradual   publication   by  printing  or  lithography 

of  the  more  important  books,  the  function  of  the  scribe,  here  as 

in  the  case  of  other  Eastern  languages,  has  in  large  measure 

fallen  into  abeyance. 

The  Pahlawi  literature  is  divided  by  West,  who  is  certainly 
Extent  and  *^e  greatest  living  authority  on  it,  and  who  is  in 
[he'paMa^i  t^1*s  Porti°n  °f  our  subject  our  chief  guide,  into 

literature.       three  classes,  as  follows  : — 


PAHLA  Wt  L1TERA  TURE  16$ 

1.  Pahlawi  translations  of  Avesta  texts,  represented  by  twenty- 
seven  works,  or  fragments  of  works,  estimated  to  contain  in  all 
about   141,000  words.1     Valuable  as  these  are  for  the  exegesis 
ot  the  Avesta,  they  "cannot  be  really  considered,"  in  West's 
words,  "  as  a  sample  of  Pahlawi  literature,  because  the  Pa>si 
translators  have  been  fettered  by  the  Avesta  arrangement  of 
the  words." 

2.  Pahlawl  texts  on  religious  subjects,  represented  by  fifty-five 
works,  estimated  to  contain    about    446,000    words.       This 
class     contains,     besides     commentaries,     prayers,    traditions 
(riwdyats),   admonitions,  injunctions,  pious   sayings,  and    the 
like,  several  important  and  interesting  works,  amongst  which 
the   following    deserve    particular    mention.      The    Dinkart 

("Acts   of   Religion"),    "a   large   collection    of 
information    regarding    the    doctrines,    customs, 
traditions,  history  and  literature  of  the  Mazda- 
worshipping  religion,"  of  which   the  compilation   was  begun 
in  the  ninth  century  of  our  era  by  the  same  Atur-farnbag  who 
appears   before    al-Ma'mun   as    the    champion    of    orthodox 
Zoroastrianism  against  "  the  accursed  Abalish,"  and  concluded 
towards   the   end    of  the   same   century.2     The    Bundahishn 
("  The  Ground-giving  "),  an  extensive  manual  of 

The  Bundahishn        !••  i  11  ••  •  i          /•   n 

(nth  century),    religious  knowledge,3  comprising,   in    the    fuller 

recession    known    as    the    "  Iranian,"    forty-six 

chapters,  which  appears  to  have  been  finally  concluded  in  the 

eleventh  or  twelfth  century  of  our  era,  though  the  bulk  of  it 

is   probably  a  good  deal    earlier.      The    Datistan-i-Dlnlk,  or 

"  Religious  Opinions "   of  Manushchihar.  son   ot 

The  Datist.in-i-  .  . 

Dinik  (oth       Yiidan-Yim.  high-priest  of  Pars  and  Kirman  in 

century).  °     , r       . 

the  latter  part  of  the  ninth  century,  on  ninety-two 

1  The  full  enumeration  of  these  and  the  following  will  be  found  in  West's 
article  in  the  Grundriss  already  referred  to. 

•  A  very  full  analysis  of  its  contents  is  given  by  West,  op.  cit.,  pp.  91-98. 

'  For  translation  see  West's  Pahlawi  texts  in  vol.  v  of  the  Sacred  Books 
of  the  East,  pp.  1-151  (Oxford,  1880).  For  analysis  of  contents  see  West's 
article  in  the  Grundriss,  pp.  100-102. 


to6  LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

topics,  characterised  by  West  as  "one  of  the  most  difficult 
Pahlawi  texts  in  existence,  both  to  understand  and  to  translate." 
The  Shikand-gumdnlk  Vijar'1-  ("  Doubt-dispelling  Explana- 
tion "),  a  controversial  religious  work,  composed  towards  the 

end  of  the  ninth  century,  in  defence  of  the  Zoro- 
"urni'nfifvijar  astrian  dualism  against  the  Jewish,  Christian, 

Manichaean,  and  Muhammadan  theories  of  the 
nature  and  origin  of  evil ;  and  described  by  West  as  "  the 
nearest  approach  to  a  philosophical  treatise  that  remains  extant 

in  Pahlawi  literature."  The  Dina-i-Mainyo  [or 
MK&'"  Mainbg}  -i-Khirad  ("  Opinions  of  the  Spirit  of 

Wisdom  ")  contains  the  answers  of  this  spirit  to 
sixty-two  inquiries  on  matters  connected  with  the  Zoroastrian 
faith.  The  publication  of  the  Pahlawi  text  by  Andreas  (Kiel, 
1882),  and  of  the  Pazend  text  with  Neriosengh's  Sanskrit 
translation  by  West  (Stuttgart,  1871),  who  has  also  published 
English  translations  of  both  texts  (1871  and  1885),  render  it 
one  of  the  most  accessible  of  Pahlawi  works,  and  as  pointed  out 
by  Noldeke  in  his  translation  of  the  Kdrndmak-i-drtakhshatr-i- 
dn^  one  of  the  best  books  for  beginning  the  study  ot 

book- Pahlawi.    The  Arda-Vlr&f  Ndmak  is  another 

Ver7  well-known  work,  accessible  in  the  original 

(Bombay,  1872)  and  in  English  and  French 
translations,  and  may  be  briefly  described  as  a  prose  Zoroas- 
trian Paradiso  and  Inferno.  It  is  interesting  for  the  picture 
it  gives  of  the  religious  and  material  anarchy  in  Persia  pro- 
duced by  the  invasion  of  "the  accursed  Alexander  the  Roman," 
of  the  Sdsanian  national  and  religious  revival  in  the  third 
century  of  our  era,  and  of  the  Zoroastrian  ideas  of  the  future 
life.  In  the  latter  we  can  hardly  fail  to  be  struck  by  the 
analogy  between  the  Chinvat  Bridge  and  the  Muhammadan 


1  Translated  by  West  in  vol.  xxiv  of  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East  series 
(Oxford,  1885),  pp.  115-251  ;  and  published  in  Pazend  by  the  same  scholar 
in  conjunction  with  the  Pars!  Hoshang  in  1887. 


PAH  LA  Wt  LITER  A  TURE  107 

Bridge  of  $irat,  "  finer  than  a  hair  and  sharper  than  a  sword," 
to  which  Byron  alludes  in  the  well-known  lines — 

"  By  Allah,  I  would  answer  '  Nay  ! ' 
Though  on  al-Sirat's  bridge  I  stood, 
Which  totters  o'er  the  burning  flood, 
With  Paradise  within  my  view, 
And  all  its  houris  beckoning  through." 

And  these  houris  also  seem  to  find  their  more  spiritual  proto- 
type in  the  fair  maiden  who  meets  the  departed  soul  of  the 
righteous  man,  and  who,  on  being  questioned,  declares  herself 
to  be  the  embodiment  of  the  good  deeds,  the  good  words,  and 
the  good  thoughts  which  have  proceeded  from 

Hupstak        him  during  his  life.     The  "  Book  of  the  accursed 

Abalish.  °  .  J 

Abalish"  already  mentioned  more  than  once,  was 
published  by  Barthelemy  in  1887,  with  the  Pazend  and  Parsf- 
Persian  versions  and  a  French  translation.  The  yamfap-n&mak, 
known  in  its  entirety  only  in  Pazend  and  Persian  versions, 
contains  some  interesting  mythological  and  legendary  matter 

about  the  ancient  mythical  kings  of  the  Persian 
Khusraw-i-  Epos.  The  Andaraz-i-Khusraw-i-Kawtithn*  or 

Kavatan.  .    .  .  „ 

dying  injunctions  or  King  INushirwan  (Anoshak- 
ruban,  A.D.  531-578)  to  his  people,  though  of  very  small 
extent,  deserves  mention  because  it  has  been  taken  by 
Salemann  in  his  Mittelpersische  Stttdlen  (Melanges  Asiatiques, 
ix,  pp.  242-253,  St.  Petersburg,  1887)  as  the  basis  of  a  very 
interesting  and  luminous  study  of  the  exact  fashion  in  which 
a  Pahlawitext  would  probably  have  sounded  when  read  aloud  ; 
an  ingenious  attempt  at  a  critical  Pazend  transcription. 

3.  Pahlawl  texts  on  non-religious  subjects,  represented  by  only 
eleven  works,  comprising   in  all  about  41,000  words.     This 
class  of  Pahlawi   literature  is  at  once  the  most 
pahUwTwOTks!   interesting  and  the  least  extensive.     A  large  non- 
theological  literature  no  doubt  existed  in  Sasanian 
times,  and  many  works  of  this  class  no  longer  extant  (notably 
the  Khudhtiy-n&mak)  or  "  Book  of  Kings,"  which  will  be  dis- 


io8   LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

cussed  in  the  next  section)  are  known  to  us  by  name,  and  to 
some  extent  in  substance,  through  the  early  Arabic  and 
Muhammadan  Persian  writers.  The  same  cause  which  led 
to  the  loss  of  the  scientific  and  philosophical  nosh  of  the 
A  vesta  (the  hdtak  mdnsarik :  see  p.  97  supra),  namely,  the 
comparative  indifference  of  the  Zoroastrian  priests,  who  were 
practically  the  sole  guardians  of  the  old  literature  after  the  fall 
of  the  Sasdnian  Empire,  to  all  books  which  did  not  bear  im- 
mediately on  their  own  interests,  led,  no  doubt,  to  the  loss 
of  the  greater  part  of  the  profane  literature  of  the  Sasanian 
period.  The  works  of  this  class  now  extant  are  so  few  that 
they  may  be  enumerated  in  full.  They  comprise  :  ( I )  The 
Social  Code  of  the  Zoroastrians  in  Sasanian  Times.  (2)  The 
Tdtkdr-i-Zarlrdn  (also  called  the  Shdhndma-i-Gushtdsp  and 
the  Pahlawl  Shdhndma],  translated  into  German  by  Geiger  in 
the  Sitzungsberichte  d.  phll.  und  hist.  Classe  d.  Kals.  bayer.  Akad. 
d.  Wissenschaften  for  1890,  ii,  pp.  243-84,  and  further  dis- 
cussed by  Noldeke  two  years  later  in  the  same  periodical.1 
(3)  The  Tale  of  Khusraw-i-Kawdtdn  (Nushlrwdn)  and  his 
Page.  (4)  The  extremely  interesting  Kdrndmak-i-Artakh- 
shatr-i-Pdpakdn,  or  "  Gests  of  Ardashir  Babakan,"  the  founder 
of  the  Sasanian  dynasty,  of  which  the  Pahlawi  text 2  (which 
appears,  however,  to  be  edited  with  little  criticism)  was  pub- 
lished at  Bombay  in  1896  by  Kayqubad  Adharbad  Dastur 
Nushirwan,  while  an  excellent  German  translation,  with 
critical  notes  and  a  most  luminous  Introduction,  by  Professor 
Noldeke  of  Strassburg,  appeared  at  Gottingen  in  1878. 
Of  this  book  I  shall  have  occasion  to  speak  much  more 
fully  in  connection  with  the  Shdh-ndma^  or  "  Book  of  Kings." 
It  and  the  two  preceding  ones  may  be  classed  together  as  the 
sole  survivors  of  the  "  historical  novel "  of  Sasanian  times  ; 

1  This  work  is  placed  by  Noldeke  about  the  year  A.D.  500,  and  is 
described  by  him  as  "  vvohl  die  alteste  eigentliche  Heldensage,  die  uns  in 
iranischer  Sprache  erhalten  ist." 

'  The  date  of  its  composition  is  placed  by  Noldeke  about  A.D.  600. 


PAHLAWt  LITERATURE  109 

though  the  contents  or  titles  of  others  are  known  to  us 
through  Arabic  writers  (such  as  Mas'udi,  Dinawan,  and  the 
author  of  the  invaluable  Flhrht\  while  the  substance  of  one, 
the  Book  of  the  Gests  and  Adventures  of  Bahrdm  Chubin,  has 
been  in  part  reconstructed  by  Professor  Noldeke  ( Geschlchte  der 
.  .  .  Sasaniden^  Leyden,  1879,  pp.  474-487).  The  remaining 
books  of  this  class  (mostly  of  small  extent)  are  :  (5)  The  Cities 
of  Iran;  (6)  the  Wonders  of  Sagistdn ;  (7)  the  Dirakht-i- 
dsurlg,  or  "  Tree  of  Assyria "  ;  ( 8 )  the  Chatrang-ndmak,  or 
"Book  of  Chess"  ;  (9)  Forms  of  Epistles ;  (10)  Form  of  Mar- 
riage Contract,  dated  to  correspond  with  November  16,  A.D. 
1278  ;  and  (n)  the  well-known  Farhang-i-Pahlawiky  or  "Old 
Pahlawi-Pazend  Glossary,"  published  at  Bombay  and  London 
by  Hoshang  and  Haug  in  1870. 

Besides  the  Palilawi  literature,  there  also  exists  a  modern 

Persian   Zoroastrian  literature,  of  which  the  most  important 

works  are:  the  Zartushtndma  ("Book  of  Zoro- 

Persian  .  . 

Zoroastrian      aster    )  m  verse,  composed  at  Ray  in  Persia  in 

literature.  •  J 

the  thirteenth  century  ;  the  Sad-dar  ("  Hundred 
Chapters  "),  a  sort  of  epitome  of  the  Zoroastrian  faith  in  three 
recensions  (one  prose,  two  verse),  of  which  the  first  is  the 
oldest;  the  'Ulamd-i-Isldm  ("Doctors  of  Islam ")  ;  the 
RiwdyatSy  or  collections  of  religious  traditions  ;  the  ^Jssa- 
i-Sanjdn^  or  narrative  of  the  Zoroastrian  exodus  to  India  after 
the  Muhammadan  conquest  of  Persia  ;  and  several  Persian 
versions  of  Pahlawi  texts.  These  are  discussed  by  West  in 
an  Appendix  to  his  article  in  the  Grundriss  (pp.  122-129). 
I  know  of  no  literary  activity  amongst  the  Persian  Zoroastrians 
of  Yazd  and  Kirman  in  recent  times,  and  though  amongst 
themselves  they  continue  to  speak  the  peculiar  Gabri  dialect 
already  mentioned,  their  speech  in  mixed  society  scarcely 

differs  from  that  of  their  Muhammadan  fellow 

Existence  of          .   .  .     .     .      .  .     .  .     , 

vermin        citizens,  and  their  letters  are  entirely  copied  from 

Sasanian  times.  .  J 

the  ordinary  models. 
The  question  of  the  existence  of  poetry  in  Sasdnian  times 


has  been  already  discussed  at  pp.  14-16  supra.  If  it  ever 
existed,  no  remnants  of  it,  so  far  as  is  known,  have  survived 
till  the  present  day. 

As  has  been  already  pointed  out,  the  substance  of  a  certain 
number  of  Pahlawi  works  which  have  perished  is  preserved 
to  some  extent  by  some  Muhammadan  writers,  especially 
the  earlier  Arabic  historians  (that  is,  Arabic- writing,  for 
most  of  them  were  Persians  by  race),  such  as  Tabari, 
Mas'udi,  Dinawari,  and  the  like,  who  drew  for  the  most  part 
their  materials  from  Arabic  translations  of  Pahlawi  books 
made  by  such  men  as  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa',  who  were  well 
acquainted  with  both  languages.  Of  such  translations  a  con- 
siderable number  are  enumerated  in  the  Fihrist,  but  Ibnu'l- 
MuqanV's  rendering  of  Kalila  and  Dimna  (brought  from 
India  in  the  time  of  Nushirwan  "  the  Just,"  together  with 
the  game  of  Chess,  and  translated  for  him  into  Pahlawi)  is 
almost  the  only  one  which  has  survived  in  its  entirety. 
Amongst  the  early  Arabic  writers,  the  best  informed  on 
Persian  topics  include,  besides  Tabari  (t  A.D.  923),  al-Jahidh 
(t  A.D.  869),  al-Kisrawi  (t  A.D.  870),  Ibn  Qutayba  (t  A.D. 
889),  al-Ya'qubi  (t  A.D.  900),  Dinawari  (t  A.D.  895), 
Mas'udi  (flourished  in  the  middle  of  the  tenth  century), 
especially  his  Murliju  dh-dhahab  and  Kitabu't-tanblh  wa'l-ishraf^ 
Hamza  of.JsfaMn^A^p^j^i),  al-Biruni  (end  of  tenth  and 
eaHy"eleventh  century),  al-Baladhuri  (t  A.D.  892),  the 
author  of  the  Fihristy  Muhammad  b.  Ishaq  (end  of  tenth 
century),  and  others.  Amongst  Persian  works,  Bal'ami's 
translation  of  Tabari's  history  (A.D.  963),  the  anonymous 
Mujmalut-Tawdr!khyzn&  Firda'wsi's  great  epic,  the  Shahndma, 
of  which  we  shall  speak  immediately,  are  perhaps  the  most 
important  from  this  point  of  view. 

§  IV.  THE  PERSIAN  NATIONAL  EPIC. 
Hitherto  we    have  spoken  chiefly  of  the    real    history  of 
Ancient  Persia,  as  derived  from  the  oldest  and  most  credible 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  in 

sources — inscriptions,  coins,  and  the  writers  of  antiquity.  It 
is  now  necessary  that  we  should  briefly  examine  the  ideas  that 
the  Persians  themselves  entertain  as  to  the  dynasties  and  kings 
who  ruled  over  them  in  days  of  old — in  other  words,  the 
National  Legend,  which  only  begins  to  run  parallel  with 
actual  history  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sasanian  period.  This 
National  Legend  finds  its  ^ultimate  development  in  the  cele- 
brated epic  of  the  Shahnama^  or  "  Book  of  Kings,"  an  immense 
poem,  generally  computed  at  about  60,000  couplets,  composed 
by  Firdawsi  for  Sultan  Mahmud  of  Ghazna,  and  completed, 
after  some  forty  years  of  labour,  in  the  year  A.D.  1010.  As 
a  literary  work  this  great  epic  will  be  more  properly  discussed 
in  a  later  chapter,  but,  since  it  remains  till  the  present  day  the 
chief  source  whence  the  Persians  derive  their  ideas  as  to  the 
ancient  history  of  their  nation,  it  will  be  proper  to  discuss 
briefly  in  this  chapter  both  the  nature  and  antiquity  of  its 
contents.  This  matter  has  been  treated  in  a  most  exhaustive 
and  scholarly  manner  by  Professor  Noldeke  of  Strassburg  in 
his  article  entitled  Das  Iranische  Nationalepos^  contributed  to 
vol.  ii  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss,  and  also  published 
in  separate  form  (Triibner,  Strassburg,  1896).  Of  this 
excellent  work,  which  probably  represents  the  limit  of 
knowledge  attainable  in  this  direction,  the  freest  use  is 
made  in  the  brief  account  here  given  of  the  history  of  this 
National  Legend  or  Saga. 

The   Shdhndma    recognises    four  dynasties  of  pre-Muham-  \'. 
madan  Persian  kings — the  Pishdddl,  the  Kaydnl^  tjhe  Ashkani 

(or    Parthian,    also   called    in    Arabic    Mulukut-  / 
^sh!hnV™he    Tawaif,or   "Tribal    Kings"),  and    the   sisdnl.* 

Of  these,  the  two  first  are  entirely  unhistorical, 
belonging,  as  we  have  already  said,  to  the  mythology  of  the 
Avesta  and  the  common  Indo-Iranian  legend  j  the  third  is 
historical  in  a  sense,  but  nothing  is  remembered  of  it  save  a 
few  names,  mentioned  without  much  order  or  method,  and  the 
fact  that  it  filled  the  gap  between  Alexander  the  Great  and 


ii2   LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

Ardashfr  the  first  Sasanian  ;  the  fourth  is  wholly  historical  in 
the  sense  that  the  kings  composing  it  are  historical  personages 
arranged  in  correct  order,  though"  naturally  their  deeds  and 
adventures  contain  much  legendary  matter,  especially  in  the 
earlier  portion. 

The  first  king  of   the  legendary  Pishdadi  dynasty,  called 
Gayumarth)  is  the  first  man  of  the  Avesta,  Gayo  Mareta^  the 

Zoroastrian  Adam.     He  dwells  in  the  mountains, 
dynasty'        dresses   himself  and  his    people  in    leopard-skins, 

brings  the  beasts  of  the  field  into  subjugation, 
wages  a  war  on  the  demons,  in  which  his  son  Siy&mak  is 
killed,  and,  after  a  reign  of  thirty  years,  dies,  and  is 
succeeded  by  his  grandson  Hushang  (Arabic  Ushhanj. 
Hushang  reigns  forty  years,  accidentally  discovers  how  to 
produce  fire  by  flint  and  steel,  and  establishes  the  Festival  or 
Sadah  to  commemorate  this  great  discovery.  He  is  succeeded 
by  his  son  Takmurath,  called  Div-band,  "the  Binder  of 
Demons,"  since  he  brought  these  beings  into  subjection,  but 
spared  their  lives  on  condition  that  they  should  teach  him  the 
art  of  writing  "  not  one  but  nearly  30  languages."1  After 
reigning  thirty  years  he  is  succeeded  by  his  son  yamshld,  a 
much  more  important  figure  in  the  Persian  Legend  than  any 
of  his  predecessors. 

The  early  Arab  (/.*.,  Arabic-writing)  historians,  who  for  thr 
most  part  endeavour  to  combine  the  Iranian  with  Semitic  anc 

Biblical  legends,  commonly  identify  Jamshid  with 

Solomon.  Practically  speaking  nearly  all  the 
Achaemenian  monuments  about  Persepolis  are  referred  by 

^***^^*—  ^"*^  ^^^^^*>^MWM^Mn«M^'BaHMM^*AM^^^^^flHHMfrt^«^^i^M^^*IHM^M>^BM^1^* 

•the  Persians  to  "these  kings,  and  apparentlyfor  no  better  reason 
.  -than  the  following  :  "  These  gigantic  buildings,"  they  say, 
'"are  evidently  beyond  the  power  of  the  unaided  humanity  of 
'(  that  age  ;  therefore  whoever  built  them  was  helped  by  the 
j  demons.  But  it  is  a  well-known  fact  that  only  two  kings  had 
!  command  over  the  demons,  namely  Solomon  and  Jamshid  j 
1  See  Macau's  ed.  of  the  Shdhndma,  p.  18. 


DOCTOR 

THE  PERSfAMBfcWEN  MIN4SJAN, 


therefore  Solomon  and  Jamshid  built  these  monuments." 
Accordingly  they  call  Persepolis  Takht-t-yamshld^  "  the 
Throne  of  Jamshid  "  ;  the  Tomb  of  Cyrus,  Masjid-i-Madar- 
i-Sulaymdny  "  the  Mosque  of  Solomon's  Mother  "  ;  and 
another  platform-like  structure  on  a  hill  adjacent  to  the 
monuments  in  the  Murghab  plain  Takht-i-SulaymAn  "the 
Throne  of  Solomon."  Such  identifications  were  favoured  by 
the  Zoroastrians  in  Muhammadan  times  as  tending  to  improve 
their  position  with  their  conquerors,  and  secure  for  them  the 
privileges  accorded  by  victorious  Islam  to  "  the  people  of  the 
Book"  —  that  is,  peoples  like  the  Jews  and  Christians  who, 
though  not  believers  in  the  Qur'an,  possessed  Scriptures 
recognised  by  Muhammad.  The  most  notable  of  these  false 
identifications  is  that  of  Zoroaster  with  Abraham,  and  of  the 
Avesta  with  the  Suhuf  ("  Leaflets  "  or  "  Tracts  ")  supposed 
by  the  Muhammadans  to  have  been  revealed  to  him,  and 
recognised  by  them  as  one  of  the  five  revelations  made  to  the 
five  great  Prophets,  the  other  four  being  the  Pentateuch 
(  Tawrdt)  of  Moses,  the  Psalms  (Zubur  or  Mazdmlr]  of  David, 
the  Gospel  (/«///)  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Qur'&n  of 
Muhammad.  But  of  course  well-informed  writers  like 
Ibnu'l-MuqafiV  knew  that  these  identifications  were  wrong, 
just  as  well  as  we  now  know  that  Sir  William  Jones's  identi- 
fications of  Kay-Khusraw  and  Shiruye  with  Cyrus  and  Xerxes 
are  wrong.  Thus  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa4  (quoted  by  Dinawan,  ed. 
Guirgass,  p.  9)  says  :  "  Ignorant  Persians,  and  such  as  have  no 
science,  suppose  that  King  Jam  was  Solomon  the  son  of  David, 
but  this  is  an  error,  for  between  Solomon  and  Jam  was  an 
interval  of  more  than  3,000  years."  It  is  now  well  known 
that  Jam  (the  termination  —  shldy  frequently  dropped,  is  a  mere 
epithet  or  title,  as  it  is  in  Khurshid,  "  the  Sun,"  representing 
the  Avestic  Khshaeta^  "  chief,  sovereign,  brilliant  ")  is  identical 
with  the  Tama  of  the  Hindu  and  the  Tima  of  the  Avestic 
mythology,  though  this  hero  of  the  Indo-Iranian  legend 
appears  under  rather  different  aspects  in  the  three  cases.  With 

9 


ii4   LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

the  Hindus,  he  is  the  first  great  mortal  to  pass  over  into  the 
After-world,  and  hence  appears  as  a  kind  of  Pluto,  or  King  of 
Hades.  In  the  Avesta  he  is  "  the  fair  Yima  of  goodly  flocks," 
the  son  of  Vivahhao  (a  name  which,  though  absent  from 
the  Shdhndftia,  occurs  in  early  Muhammadan  historians  like 
Dinawari  and  Tabari  as  Vlvanjhdn^  described  as  son  of  Iran  or 
Arfakhshad,  son  of  Sam  or  Shem,  son  of  Noah),  who  is  invited, 
but  declines,  to  be  the  bearer  of  Ahura  Mazda's  message  to 
mankind,  and  who  is  commissioned  to  build  "the  four-cornered 
Varena  "  for  the  protection  of  his  people  from  the  plague  ot 
cold  created  by  Arira  Mainyush  (Ahriman),  the  Evil  Spirit. 
In  the  Shdhndma  he  appears  as  a  great  king,  who  reigns  for 
700  years,  not  only  over  men,  but  over  demons,  birds,  and 
fairies  ;  invents  weapons  of  war  and  the  textile  art ;  teaches 
men  the  use  of  animals ;  institutes  the  priestly,  military, 
agricultural,  and  artisan  classes ;  compels  the  demons  to  practise 
architecture  ;  introduces  the  use  of  precious  stones  and  metals, 
perfumes,  and  medicines  ;  builds  ships  ;  causes  himself  to  be 
transported  (like  Solomon  in  the  Muhammadan  legend)  on  an 
aerial  throne  whithersoever  he  will  ;  and  establishes  the  great 
national  festival  of  the  Nawruz,  or  New  Year's  Day,  at  the 
vernal  equinox,  when  the  Sun  enters  the  sign  of  Aries. 
Thereupon  his  luck  turns,  for  he  becomes  so  inflated  with 
pride  as  to  claim  divine  honours,  whereon  he  is  overthrown  and 
ultimately  slain  by  the  usurper  Dahd^. 

This    Dahdk    represents    the    snake    Azlu    Dahc.ka   (later 
Azhdahak,  AzhdaM,  "  a  dragon  ")  of  the  Avesta ;  and,  with 

the  two  snakes  growing  from  his  shoulders  wiiich 
AzlDahdkk°r     require  a  daily  meal  of  human  brains,  stands  for 

the  three-headed  dragon  of  other  Aryan  mytho- 
logies. By  Firdawsi  (in  whose  time  the  memory  of  the  Arab 
Conquest  was  still  alive,  and  race  hatred  still  ran  high)  he  is 
metamorphosed  into  an  Arab,  and  his  name  is  consequently 
given  an  Arab  form,  DahhAk  (with  the  hard  Arabic  d  and  h]\ 
he  appears  as  a  parricide,  tyrant,  and  chosen  instrument  of  the 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  its 

Devil,  who  beguiles  him  from  the  primitive  and  innocent 
vegetarianism  supposed  to  have  hitherto  prevailed  into  the 
eating  of  animal  food  and  ultimate  cannibalism.  His  demand 
for  fresh  victims  to  feed  his  snakes  ultimately,  after  he  has 
reigned  nearly  a  thousand  years,  drives  his  wretched  subjects 
into  revolt,  to  which  they  are  chiefly  incited  by  the  blacksmith 
Kawa,  whose  leathern  apron,  by  a  patriotic  apotheosis,  becomes 
the  standard  of  national  liberty.  The  young  Feridun  (Avestic 
Thraetaona^  Indian  Thraitana\  son  or  Abtln^  a 
descendant  of  Tahmurath  and  "of  the  seed  of 
the  Kayan,"  is  brought  forth  from  his  hiding-place  and  hailed 
as  king.  He  defeats  Dahak,  and  chains  him  alive,  Prometheus- 
like,  in  a  cave  at  the  summit  of  Mount  Damawand  (or  Dunbd- 
wand),  the  great  conical  peak  of  which  is  so  clearly  visible  to 
the  north-east  of  Tihran,  after  which,  amidst  general  rejoicings, 
he  becomes  king,  and  rules  with  great  justice  and  splendour  for 
five  hundred  years,  so  that  of  him  it  is  said — 

Faridun-i-famikh  farishla  na-bnd: 
Zi  mushk  u  zi  '  anbai  sarishta  na-bud. 
Bi-ddd  u  dahish  ydft  dn  niku'i  : 
Tit  dad  u  dahish  kun  :  Faridun  tii'i ! 

"  Feridun  the  fortunate  was  not  an  angel : 
He  was  not  compounded  of  musk  and  of  ambergris. 
By  justice  and  bounty  he  attained  such  excellence  : 
Be  thou  just  and  bountiful,  and  thou  shalt  be  a  Feridun  !" 

Yet  for  all  this  he  was  not  exempt  from  bitter  trouble  in  his 
own  house.  Having  given  his  three  sons  in  marriage  to  the 

three  daughters  of  Sarv  (or  Surv,  according  to  al- 
Fendwnns.lhrec  Bundari's  Arabic  prose  translation  of  the  Shdhnamay 

made  about  A.D.  I223),1  ne  divided  between  them 
his  vast  dominions,  giving  to  Iraj,  the  youngest,  the  land  of 
Iran  (Eran-shahr).  His  other  two  sons,  Salm  and  Tir, 

1  Cambridge  MS.  QQ.  46,  a  fine  old  fourteenth  century  MS.  of  this  im- 
portant compilation,  concerning  which  see  Noldeke's  Das  Iranischc 
NatioHalepos,  p.  77  and  n.  2. 


ii6   LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

regarding  this  as  the  choicest  portion  of  the  heritage,  were 
filled  with  envy,  and  eventually,  by  a  dastardly  stratagem, 
succeeded  in  compassing  the  death  of  their  younger  brother. 
His  body  is  brought  to  Feridun,  who  bitterly  laments  his 
death,  and  swears  vengeance  on  Tur  and  Salm. 

Some  time  after   the   murder  of  Iraj,  his  wife  Mah-Afarld 

bears  a  son,  named  Maniichihr^  who,  on  reaching  mature  age, 

attacks  and    kills   his  wicked    uncles,    and  sends 

their  heads  to  Ferfdiin.      Soon  after  this,  Feridun 

abdicates   in    favour   of   Manuchihr,    and    shortly    afterwards 

dies. 

The  three  sons  of  Feridun  may  be  roughly  described  as  the 
Shem,  Ham,  and  Japhet  of  the  Iranian  legend  ;  and  from  this 
fratricidal  strife   date  the  wars  between  the  sons 
of   Tur   (the    Turanians    or    Turks),    long    led 
by  the  redoubtable  Afrdsiydbt  and  those  of  Iraj   (the  Iranians) 
— wars    which  fill  so   great    a   part  not   only  of  the  legen- 
dary, but  of  the  actual  history  of  Persia.     At  this  point  the 
National  Epic  begins  to  be  enriched  by  a  series 
The  sistan      of  episodes  whereof  the  Avesta  shows  no  trace, 

legend. 

and  which  are  connected  with  a  series  of  heroes 
belonging  to  a  noble  family  of  Sistan  and  Zabulistan,  viz., 
Nariman,  Sam,  Zal,  Rustam,  and  Suhrab.     Of  these  Rustam 
is  by  far  the  most  important.     For  centuries  he 
plays  the  part  of  a  deus  ex  machind  in  extricating 
the   Persian  Kayani  monarchs — especially  Kay   Qubad,  Kay 
Ka'us,  and  Kay  Khusraw — from  their  difficulties  and  dangers, 
while,  with   his  good  horse  Rafysh,  he   plays  the  chief  part 
in   a  series  of  heroic  adventures  in  combats  with   men  and 
demons.     His  death  is  only  compassed  at  last  by  a  treache- 
rous stratagem  of  his  brother,  after  he  has   slain 
hfandiyar    (Isfandiyddh,   Spandeddt\    the   son    of 
Gushtdsp  (Vlshtaspa\  the  champion  of  Zoroaster.      Spiege* 
supposes  *  that   Rustam's  name  was  deliberately  suppressed  in 
1  Arische  Studten,  p.  126. 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  117 

the  Avesta  as  an  adversary  or  "the  good  Religion,*'  but 
Noldeke  *  thinks  this  improbable,  and  inclines  rather  to  the 
view  that  the  Sistan  legend  to  which  he  and  his  ancestors 
belong  was  almost  or  quite  unknown  to  the  authors  of  the 
Avesta.  At  any  rate  Rustam's  name  has  only  been  found  in 
one  or  two  places  in  late  Pahlawi  writings,  though  his  doughty 
deeds  were  known  to  the  Armenian  Moses  of  Khorene  in  the 
seventh  or  eighth  century,  and  the  stall  of  his  horse  Rakhsh 
was  shown  about  the  same  period  to  the  Arab  invaders  of 
Sistan.2  Moreover,  the  Persian  general  who  was  defeated  and 
slain  by  the  Arabs  in  the  fatal  battle  of  Qadisiyya  (A.D.  635) 
was  a  namesake  of  the  great  legendary  hero. 

The  death  of  Rustam  brings  us  nearly  to  the  end  of  the 

Kaydni,  or  purely  mythical  period   of  the  Epic.     Isfandiyar, 

the  son  of  Gushtasp,  leaves  a  son  named  Bahman 

End  of  the  purely     .„.„,  „.  ,  .       ,  .  ir     .  T 

mythical  part  of  ( Uohumano),  who  succeeds  his  grandfather.  In 
the  later  construction  of  the  Epic  this  Bahman 

was  identified  with  Artaxerxes  (drtafyshatr,  4rdashir)L>ong\- 
manus  (MaKpovftp,  Dirdz-dast\$  who  was  known 

Bahman  Arta-        .  ,v  r    *•    ~  .  ,  "     .  ,  .  .    , 

xerxcs  Long;-     through  some  bynac  writer  drawing  his  material 

manus.  _  —,        .  _.    ,  . .  , 

from  Greek  sources.  Bahman,  according  to  the 
practice  of  the  Magians,  married  his  sister  Khum&ni  (Humdy\ 

who  bore    him  a   posthumous  son  named  Dara. 

Her  brother  Sasan,  who  had  looked  forward  to 
inheriting  the  crown,  was  so  overcome  with  disappointment 

at  seeing;  his  sister  made  Queen-Regent  that  he 

Dari.  ~  ° 

retired  to  the  mountains  amongst  the  Kurds  and 

became   a   shepherd.4      From    him,  as  the  Persians    believe, 

descend   the  Sasanian   kings,  who  are  uniformly 

Sasan.  .     ,  .         i       •   •  , 

regarded  as  the  legitimate  successors  or  the 
Kayanfs,  and  the  restorers  of  their  glory.  Their  founder, 
Ardathir  IZAba^an  (Artakhshatr  son  of  Papak),  is  represented 

1  Das  Iramschc  Nation alepos,  p.  9. 

•  Ibid.,  p.  n  and  n.  2  ad  calc. 
3  Ibid.,  p.  12,  and  n.  3  ad.  calc,  «  Dinawari,  p.  29. 


ii8   LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

as  the  great-great-great-grandson  ot  Sasan  the  son  of  Bahman 
the  son  of  Zoroaster's  patron  Gushtasp.     By  thus  represent- 

ing their  pedigree,  the  Sasan  ians  strove  to  establish 
Ijiblnkfn  kfngs.6  t^ie'r  position  as  the  legitimate  rulers  of  Persia, 

and  "  defenders  of  the  faith  "  of  Zoroaster  —  a 
character  which,  with  few  exceptions,  they  strenuously  exerted 
themselves  to  maintain. 

We    have   seen  that  the   Parthians  crfsh^aniydn,  Mulufyft- 
Tawaif]  occupy  hardly  any  place  in  the  Epic,  and  it  might 

therefore  be  supposed  that  we  should  find  therein 
The  Alexander-  an  almost  direct  transition  from  the  second  Dara 

legend. 

(son  of  him  mentioned  above)  to  the  Sasanians. 
At  this  point,  however,  an  entirely  foreign  element  is  intro- 
duced, namely,  the  Alexander-romance,  which,  reposing 
ultimately  on  the  lost  Greek  text  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes,  is 
preserved  in  Syriac,  Egyptian,  Abyssinian  I  and  Arabic,  as 
well  as  Modern  Persian,  versions.  The  fate  of  Alexander  in 

Persian  legend  is  curious.     In  the  genuine  Zoro- 

Alexander  in  the  .  f  .        .  _  „ 

zoroastrian      astnan  tradition   (as,  for  example,  in  the  rahlawi 
Arda  1)lraf  Ndmafyy2  he  appears  as  "the  accursed 


Alexander  the  Roman,"  who,  urged  on  by  the  evil  spirit, 
brought  havoc,  destruction,  and  slaughter  into  Persia,  burned 
Persepolis  and  the  Zoroastrian  Scriptures  (which,  written  with 

gold  ink  on  12,000  3  prepared  ox-skins,  were 
Aleshnhnimathe  stored  up  in  the  Archives  at  Stakhar  Papakan), 

and  finally  "  self-destroyed  fled  to  hell."  Later, 
the  picturesque  contents  of  the  romance  of  the  Pseudo- 
Callisthenes,  and  a  desire  to  salve  the  national  vanity  com- 
parable to  that  which  tempted  the  authors  of  former  English 
histories  to  treat  William  the  Conqueror  as  an  English  king, 
led  the  Persians,  including  Firdawsi,  to  incorporate  Alexander 
in  the  roll  of  their  own  monarchs,  a  feat  which  they  achieved 

1  See  Budge's  Book  of  Alexander. 
3  Ed.  Haug  and  West,  pp.  4  and  141 
3  Mas'iidi's  Kitdbu't-Tanbih,  p.  91. 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC 

as  follows.  The  first  Dara  demanded  in  marriage  the  daughter 
of  Philip  of  Macedon,  but  afterwards,  being  displeased  with 
her,  divorced  her  and  sent  her  back  to  her  father.  On  her 
return  she  gave  birth  to  Alexander,  who  was  in  reality  her  son 
by  Dara,  though  Philip,  anxious  to  conceal  the  slight  put 
upon  his  daughter  by  the  Persian  King,  gave  out  that  the  boy 
v/as  his  own  son  by  one  of  his  wives.  Hence  Alexander,  in 
wresting  Persia  from  his  younger  half-brother,  the  second  Dara, 
did  but  seize  th.it  to  which,  as  elder  son  of  the  late  King, 
he  was  entitled,  and  is  thus  made  to  close  the  glorious  period  of 
the  ancient  Pishdadf  and  Kayaiu  kings.  In  the  third 
version,  represented  by  the  Sif(andar-n&ma  of 
Alexander  in  the  N/W/mW  (twelfth  century),  he  is  identified  with  a 

Sih.iiu.ar-iiama.  •—  •  »  ft* 

mysterious  personage  called  Dhu'l-^arnayn  ("  The 
two-horned  ")  mentioned  in  the  Qur'an  as  a  contemporary  of 
Moses  (with  whom  some  suppose  him  to  be  identical),  and, 
instructed  by  his  wise  and  God-fearing  tutor  Aristotle  (Arhtii, 
AristAtalis},  represents  the  ideal  monotheistic  king,  bent  on 
the  destruction  of  the  false  creed  of  the  heathen  Persians.  It 
is  important  to  bear  in  mind  these  different  conceptions  of 
Alexander,  and  also  the  fact  that  he  does  not  really  survive  in 
the  genuine  national  remembrance,  but  has  been  introduced, 
together  with  Darius,  from  a  foreign  source,  while  the  national 
memory  goes  no  further  back  than  the  Sasanians. 

Concerning  the  Parthian  period  we  must  notice,  besides  its 
very  scanty  and  unsympathetic  treatment,  the  curious  fact  that 

whereas  five  centuries  and  a  half  actually  elapsed 

Parthian  period.  ' 

between  the  death  of  Alexander  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Sasanian  dynasty,  this  period  is  habitually  reduced 
by  the  Persian  and  Arab  historians  to  266  years.  The  falsity, 
as  well  as  the  reason,  of  this  arbitrary  and  misleading  chro- 
nology is  understood  and  explained  by  the  learned  Ma^udl  in  his 
-t-tanblh  wa'l-ishrdf1  as  follows.  When  Ardashir 


1  See  the  excellent  edition  published  by  de    Goeje  in  his  Bibliotheca 
Gcografhorum  Arabiccntm  (vol.  viii,  pp.  97-9,  Leyden,  1893), 


120   LITERATURES  OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

Babakan  established  the  Sasanian  dynasty  in  A.D.  226 — that  is, 
about  550  years  after  Alexander — a  prophecy  was  generally 
current  in  Persia  that  a  thousand  years  after  Zoroaster  the 
faith  founded  by  him  and  the  Persian  Empire  would  fall 
together.  Now  Zoroaster  is  placed  280  or  300  years  before 
Alexander  :  hence,  of  the  thousand  years  about  850  has 
already  elapsed.  Ardashir,  fearing,  apparently,  that  the 
prophecy  might  work  its  own  fulfilment  (for  obviously  he 
cannot  have  had  any  great  belief  in  it  if  he  hoped  to  cheat  it 
of  its  effect  by  such  means),  and  wishing  to  give  his  dynasty 
a  longer  respite,  deliberately  excised  some  three  centuries  from 
this  period,  thus  making  it  appear  that  only  566  years  out  of 
the  thousand  had  elapsed,  and  that  his  house  might  therefore 
hope  to  continue  some  434  years  ;  which,  in  fact,  it  did,  for 
Yazdigird  III,  the  last  Sasanian  king,  was  murdered  in 
A.D.  651-2.  This  extraordinary  falsification  of  history  is 
described  by  Mas'udi  as  an  "  ecclesiastical  and  political  secret  '* 
of  the  Persians,  and  the  fact  that  it  was  possible  shows  how 
entirely  the  archives  and  the  art  of  reading  and  writing  were 
in  the  hands  of  the  ministers  of  Church  and  State. 

With  the  Sasanian  period,  as  already  remarked,  the  National 
Legend,  though  still  freely  adorned  with  romantic  and  fictitious 
incidents,  enters  on  the  domain  of  real  history,  and  becomes 
steadily  more  historical  as  it  proceeds.  As  the  Sasanian 
period  will  be  discussed  in  the  next  chapter,  it  is  unnecessary 
to  enlarge  further  upon  it  in  this  place,  and  we  shall  accordingly 
pass  at  once  to  the  history  and  antiquity  of  the  Epic. 

The    references   in    the    Avesta   to  Shdhnama    heroes   are 

sufficient  to  show  that  even  at  the  time  when  the  former  work 

was  composed  the  National  Legend  already  existed 

History  and  anti-    .      .  «W«\  •     , 

quityofthe      m  its  essential  outlines.     This,  however,  is  by  no 

National  Legend  "       .  XT-I  i    T 

means  the  only  proof  of  its  antiquity,  for  Noldeke 
has  shown  the  occurrence  of  epic  features  in  the  accounts 
of  the  ancient  Persian  kings  given  by  Greek  writers,  notably 
Ctesias,  who  was  court-physician  to  Artaxerxes  Mnemon, 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  121 

and  professedly  compiled  his  work  from  Persian  written 
sources.  These  epic  features  are,  moreover,  recurrent,  and 
are  transferred  from  one  king  and  even  dynasty  to  another; 
so  that,  for  example,  a  strong  resemblance  exists  between  the 
circumstances  surrounding  the  youth  and  early  adventures 
of  Cyrus  the  first  Achaemenian  in  his  struggle  against  the 
Medes,  and  Ardashir  the  first  Sasanian  in  his  war  with  the 
Parthians  ;  while  the  appearance  of  the  Eagle,  Simurgh  or 
Huma  (in  each  case  a  mighty  and  royal  bird)  as  the  protector 
of  Achaemenes,  Zal  and  Ardashir ;  the  similar  role  played 
by  two  members  of  the  noble  Qaren  family  in  the  rescue 
of  Nudhar  the  Kayanian  and  Piruz  the  Sasanian  from 
Turanian  foes ;  and  the  parallels  offered  by  the  Darius- 
Zopyrus  and  the  Piruz-Akhshunwar  episodes,  are  equally 
remarkable. 

The    story  of   Zariadres,    brother    of    Hystaspes,    and   the 

Princess    Odatis    is    preserved   to  us  by  Athenaeus  from  the 

history  of  Alexander  composed    by  his  chamber- 

Thlarin!tnr"1"    kin  Charas  of  Mitylene,  and  the  same    episode 

forms  the  subject  of  the  oldest  Pahlawi  romance, 

the  J"dttar-i-Zariran  (see  p.  1 08  supra))  written  about  A.D.  500. 

This  important  little  book,  the  oldest  truly  epic  fragment  in 

Persian  speech,   though  treating  only  of  one  episode   of  the 

National   Legend,  assumes  throughout  a  certain  acquaintance 

with  the  whole  epic  cycle. 

"  We  have  here,"  says  Noldeke,  "  unless  we  are  wholly  deceived, 
the  phenomenon  which  shows  itself  in  connection  with  the  epic 
history  of  divers  other  peoples  :  the  substance  is  generally  known  ; 
individual  portions  therefrom  are  artistically  elaborated  ;  and  out  of 
such  materials,  by  adaptations,  omissions,  and  remodellings,  a  more 
or  less  coherent  and  comprehensive  epic  may  arise.  The  essential 
feature?,  of  the  Legend  of  Zarir  reappear  in  the  short  Arabic  version 
of  Tabari,  which  entirely  agrees,  in  part  almost  word  for  word,  with 
the  corresponding  portion  of  the  Shahndma  ;  whence  it  must  have 
been  taken  from  the  ancient  general  tradition  which  forms  the 
of  the  great  Epic," 


122   LITERATURES   OF  ANCIENT  PERSIA 

The  "  remodellings  "  to  which  Noldeke  alludes  consist 
chiefly,  as  he  points  out,  of  modifications  designed  to  facilitate 
the  artistic  combination  and  fusion  of  the  different  episodes  in 
one  epic,  and  the  suppression,  in  the  case  of  Firdawsi's  and 
other  later  versions,  of  such  features  or  phrases  as  might  be 
offensive  to  Muhammadan  readers. 

Of  the  Sasanian  portion  of  the  Epic  we  still  possess  one 
Pahlawi  element  in  the  J^arnama^-i-t^rta^/ishatr-i-Papa^an^ 
now  accessible,  both  in  the  original  and  in  a  German  trans- 
lation (see  p.  1 08  supra}.  A  comparison  of  this  with  the 
corresponding  portion  of  the  Shdhnama  (such  as  will  be  made 
for  a  portion  of  this  episode  in  the  next  chapter)  cannot  fail  to 
raise  greatly  our  opinion  of  Firdawsi's  fidelity  to  the  sources 
on  which  he  drew,  for  the  correspondence  is  continuous  and 
remarkable.  This  f^arnama^  was  probably  composed  about 
A.D.  600,  and  the  reference  of  Agathias  (A.D.  580)  to  written 
Persian  chronicles  of  the  Kings  (j3ao-tAe;ot  cupOtpai,  irtpmKol 
/3f'/3Xot,  jSautXt/co  airofjivii/j.ovEV[j.a.Td)  in  his  account  of  Sasan, 
Papak,  and  Ardashir  affords  another  proof  that  individual 
episodes  at  least  existed  in  the  Pahlawi  literature  of  this 
period. 

According  to  the  introduction  prefixed  to  Firdawsi's 
Shdhnama  (A.D.  1425—6)  by  order  of  Baysunghur,  the  grand- 
son of  Timur  (Tamerlane),  a  complete  and 
recension*  ofThe  corrected  Pahlawi  text  of  the  whole  Epic  from 

Book  of  Kings.      >-,        ,  ,  rr ,  r>  '     /  •  £        \ 

(jayumarth  to  Khusraw  rarwiz  (i.e.,  to  A.D.  027) 
was  compiled  by  the  dihqdn  Danishwar  in  the  reign  of  the  last 
Sasanian  king  Yazdigird  III  ;  and  Noldeke  remarks  on  this 
that,  whatever  may  be  the  worth  of  this  account  in  itself,  the 
agreement  of  the  versions  given  by  the  Arab  historians  with 
the  Shdhnama  down  to  the  death  of  Khusraw  Parwiz,  and 
their  wide  divergence  after  that  event,  afford  evidence  of  its 
truth  in  this  particular  point ;  while  the  strongly  patriotic  and 
legitimist  tone  which  pervades  it  sufficiently  prove  that  it  was 
compiled  under  royal  supervision  and  patronage. 


THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  123 

This  Pahlawi  Khudhay-nama(k}^  constantly  alluded  to  by 
Arab  writers  such  as  Hamza,  the  author  of  the  Fihrist^  &c., 

was  translated  into  Arabic  by  Ibnu'l-Muqaffac 
f"  m  the  middle  of  the  eighth  century  of  our  era, 
.  and  so  became  generally  known  in  the  world  of 

Arabic  literature.  This  version,  most  unfor- 
tunately, is  lost,  as  is  also  the  Persian  prose  version  made  in 
A.D.  957-8  by  order  of  Abu  Mansiir  al-Ma'mari  for  Abu 
Mansiir  b.  'Abdu'r-Razzaq,  at  that  time  governor  of  Tus,  by 
four  Zoroastrians  of  Herat,  Sistan,  Shapur,  and  Tus.1  The 
metrical  Persian  Shahndma,  which  was  constructed  chiefly 
from  this,  was  begun  for  the  Samdnid  Prince  Nuh  b.  Mansiir 
(A.D.  976-997)  by  Daqlql^  who,  however,  had  only  completed 
some  thousand  couplets,  dealing  with  the  reign  of  Gushtasp 
and  the  advent  of  Zoroaster,  when  he  was  assassinated  by  a 
Turkish  slave.  It  was  reserved  for  Firdawsi  to  complete,  a  few 
years  later,  the  task  he  had  begun,  and  to  display  in  some  sixty 
thousand  couplets  (which  include  Daqiqi's  work)  the  National 
Legend  in  its  final  and  perfect  form.  To  Daqiqi  and  Fir- 
dawsf  we  shall  recur  when  speaking  of  Modern  Persian 
literature,  and  nothing  more  need  therefore  be  said  about  them 
in  this  chapter,  save  that  the  Shdhndma  represents  the  National 
Legend  in  its  final  epic  form. 

1  See  al-Biruni's  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations,  Sachau's  translation, 
pp.  119  and  45  ;  Noldeke's  Dan  Iranische  Nationalepos,  pp.  14-15. 


BOOK   II 

ON  THE  HISTOR  Y  OF  PERSIA  FROM  THE  RISE 

OF  THE  SASANIAN  TO  THE  FALL  OF  THE 

UMAYYAD  DYNASTY 

(A.D.  226-750) 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE    SAsANIAN   PERIOD    (A.D.    229-652) 

It  would  be  neither  suitable  nor  possible  to  attempt  in  this 
chapter  to  give  a  detailed  history  of  the  Sasanians,  though  on 
the  other  hand  a  period  of  such  great  interest  and  importance 
could  not  fittingly  be  omitted  altogether.  For  this  is  a  period 
which  marks  the  transition  from  the  old  to  the  new,  intimately 
connected  with  both,  embodying  still  much  of  the  ancient 
glory  of  the  Achaemenians,  yet  standing  in  a  far  clearer 
historical  light — a  light  to  which,  besides  contemporary 
inscriptions,  coins,  and  seals,  and  the  native  records  preserved 
by  Arabic  and  Persian  historians  and  romance- writers, 
Byzantine,  Syriac,  Armenian,  and  Jewish  records  each  add 
their  contribution.  It  was  these  kings,  called  by  the  Greeks 
Chosroes  and  by  the  Arabs  KhrA  (pi.  Akasira\  who  were  the 
restorers  of  the  ancient  Persian  Empire  and  the  "  Good 
Religion"  of  Zoroaster,  and  of  whom  Mas'udi  (writing  in 
A.D.  956)  thus  speaks  in  the  preface  to  his  KitAbu't-tanbih 
•wal-ishr&j  (p.  6):  "And  we  have  restricted  ourselves  in 
this  our  book  to  the  mention  of  these  empires  because  of  the 
mighty  dominion  of  the  kings  of  Persia,  the  antiquity  of  their 
rule,  the  continuity  of  their  sovereignty,  the  excellence  of 
their  administration,  their  well-ordered  policy,  the  prosperity 
of  their  domains,  their  care  for  their  subjects,  and  the  subju- 
gation to  their  allegiance  of  many  of  the  kings  of  the  world 

127 


128  THE  S  AS  AN  I  AN  PERIOD 

who  brought  unto  them  taxes  and  tribute.  And  they  held 
sway,  withal,  over  the  fourth  Clime,  which  is  the  Clime  of 
Babel,  the  middle  part  of  the  earth,  and  the  noblest  of  the 
[seven]  Climes."  In  the  same  spirit  sings  a  poet  cited  in  the 
same  work  (p.  37),  who,  though  he  wrote  in  Arabic,  boasted 
descent  from  the  Royal  House  of  Persia  :  — 

"And  we  portioned  out  our  empire  in  our  time 
As  you  portion  out  the  meat  upon  a  plate. 
Greece  and  Syria  we  gave  to  knightly  Salm, 
To  the  lands  wherein  the  sunset  lingers  late. 
And  to  Tuj  the  Turkish  marches  were  assigned, 
Where  our  cousin  still  doth  rule  in  royal  state. 
And  to  Iran  we  subdued  the  land  of  Pars, 
'Whence  we  still  inherit  blessings  rare  and  great." 

We  have   seen  that  the  Sasanian  kings  called  themselves 

"gods"  or  "divine  beings  "  (Pahlawf  bagh,  Chaldaean  alahay 

Greek    0eoe),    regarded    themselves    as    the    de- 

kings  regarded    scendants  and  legitimate  successors  of  the  ancient 

as  divine  beings.    ,  ,  v       '    '    i  J^L-L-^  r 

legendary  Kayani  dynasty  and  the  inheritors  or 
the  Farri-Kaydnl  or  "  Royal  Splendour  "  —  a  kind  of  Shekina 
or  symbolised  Divine  Right  by  virtue  of  which  they  alone 
could  rightly  wear  the  Persian  crown  —  and  did  everything  in 
their  power  to  impress  their  subjects  with  a  sense  of  their 
supreme  majesty.  Of  the  accession  of  "  the  Royal  Splendour" 
to  the  House  of  Sasan  we  shall  shortly  cite  a  curious  legend, 
and  of  the  majesty  maintained  by  them  the  following  extract 
from  Ibn  Hisham's  Biography  of  the  Prophet  (ed.  Wiistenfeld, 
p.  42)  furnishes  an  instance  :  — 

"  Now  Kisra  [Chosroes,  here  Khusraw  Anushirwan]  used  to  sit  in 

his  audience-hall  where  was  his  crown,  like  unto  a  mighty  cask, 

according  to  what  they  say,  set  with  rubies,  emeralds, 

The  splendour  J     ,  J  '..  ,     ,  , 

which  they      and  pearls,  with  gold  and  silver,  suspended  by  a  chain 


maintained.  o£  goj^  from  the  top  of  an  arch  in  this  his  audience- 
hall  ;  and  his  neck  could  not  support  the  crown,  but  he  was  veiled 
by  draperies  till  he  had  taken  his  seat  in  this  his  audience-hall,  and 
had  introduced  his  head  within  his  crown,  and  had  settled  himself 


DIVINE  RIGHT  OF  KINGS  129 

in  his  place,  whereupon  the  draperies  were  withdrawn.  And  no 
one  who  had  not  previously  seen  him  looked  upon  him  without 
kneeling  in  reverence  before  him." 

In  no  country,  probably,  has  the  doctrine  of  the  Divine 
Right  of  kings  been  more  generally  and  more  strongly  held 

than  it  was  in  Persia  in  Sasanian  times.  That 
Tthed^p.rvi1ne°f  any  one  not  belonging  to  the  Royal  House  should 

dare  to  assume  the  royal  title  was,  as  Noldeke  has 
pointed  out x  in  reference  to  the  rebellious  noble  Bahram 
Chubm  and  the  usurper  Shahrbaraz,  regarded  as  an  almost 
incredible  act  of  wickedness  and  presumption.  The  prevailing 
sentiment  of  the  people  is,  no  doubt,  truly  reflected  in  the 
following  anecdote  told  by  Dinawari  (p.  98)  of  the  flight  of 
Bahram  Chubin  after  his  defeat  by  Khusraw  Parwiz  and  his 
Byzantine  allies — 

"And  Bahram  fled  headlong,  and  on  his  way  he  passed  by  a 
hamlet,  where  he  halted,  and  he  and  Mardan-Sina  and  Yazdan- 

Gushnasp  alighted  at  the  dwelling  of  an  old  woman. 
Bohr  nfc'hiitna  Then  they  produced  some  food  which  they  had  with 

them,  and  supped,  and  gave  what  was  left  over 
to  the  old  woman.  Then  they  produced  wine ;  and  Bahram 
said  to  the  old  woman,  '  Hast  thou  nothing  wherewith  we  can 
drink  ? '  'I  have  a  little  gourd/  replied  she  ;  and  she  brought  it  to 
them,  and  they  cut  off  the  top  and  began  to  drink  from  it.  Then 
they  produced  dessert;  and  they  said  to  the  old  woman,  '  Hast  thou 
nothing  wherein  we  can  put  the  dessert  ?'  So  she  brought  them  a 
winno\ving-shovel,  into  which  they  poured  the  dessert.  So  Bahram 
ordered  that  wine  should  be  given  to  the  old  woman,  and  then  he 
said  to  her,  '  What  news  hast  thou,  old  lady  ? '  '  The  news  with  us,' 
answered  she, '  is  that  Kisra  hath  advanced  with  an  army  of  Greeks, 
and  fought  Bahram,  and  overcome  him,  and  recovered  from  him 
his  kingdom.'  'And  what  say'st  thou,'  asked  Bahram,  'concerning 
Bahram  ?'  'A  silly  fool,'  replied  she,  'who  claims  the  kingdom,  not 
being  a  member  of  the  Royal  House.'  Said  Bahram,  'Therefore  it  is 
that  he  drinks  out  of  gourds  and  eats  his  dessert  out  of  winnowing- 
fans.'  And  this  became  a  saying  amongst  the  Persians,  which  they 
are  wont  to  cite  as  a  proverb." 

'  Gesch.  d.  Sasanidcn,  pp.  388  and  n.  7,  and  477  and  n.  2  ad  calc, 

IO 


130  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

For  myself,  I  believe  that  Gobineau  is  right  in  asserting 

that  this  doctrine  of  the  Divine  Right  of  the  House  of  Sasan  has 

had  an  immense  influence  on  all  subsequent  Persian 

Influence  of  this    ,  •  •    n  i_  •   t 

doctrine  in  later  history,    more    especially   on    the   tenacity    with 

which  the  Persians  have  clung  to  the  doctrine  of 

the  Shi'a  or  sect  of  'Ali.     To  them  the  idea  of  electing  a 

Caliph,  or  spiritual  successor  to  the  Prophet,  natural  enough 

to  the  democratic  Arabs,  could    not  appear   otherwise  than 

revolting  and  unnatural,  and  in  the  case  of  '  Umar,  the  second 

orthodox  Caliph,  there  was  also  an  element  of  personal  hatred 

against  the  destroyer  of  the  Persian  Empire,  which,  though 

disguised  under  a  religious  garb,  is  nevertheless  unmistakable. 

Husayn,  on  the  other  hand,  the  younger  son  of  the  Prophet's 

daughter  Fatima,  and  of  his  cousin  'All,  was  believed  by  them 

to   have    married    Shahr-banu,    the    daughter   of 

daughter'"  Ribi   Yazdigird  III,  the  last  Sasanian  king  ;  and  hence 

Shahr-banu."         ,  .    .         T      ,  c  .       ,  ni  ,..        c 

the  remaining  Imams  or  both  great  Shrite  factions 
(the  "  Sect  of  the  Twelve  "  now  prevalent  in  Persia,  and  the 
"Sect  of  the  Seven,"  or  Isma'ilis)  represent  not  only  the 
Prophetic  but  the  Kingly  right  and  virtue,  being  at  the  same 
time  descended  from  the  Prophet  Muhammad  and  from  the 
House  of  Sasan.  Hence  the  political  doctrine  to  which 
Gobineau  (Re!,  et  philos.  dans  r  Asie  Centrale,  p.  275)  alludes  in 
the  following  passage  : — 


"  C'est  un  point  de  doctrine  politique  inconteste  en  Perse  que  les 

Alides  seuls  ont  le  droit  a  porter  legitimement  la  couronne,  et  cela 

en  leur  double  qualite  d'heritiers  des  Sassanides,  par 

BaSpoMc^ 'te   leur  mere>   Bibi-Sheher-banou,  fille    du    dernier   roi 

Yezdedjerd,   et  d'Imams,  chefs  de  la  religion  vraie. 

Tous  les  princes  non  Alides  sont  des  souverains  de  fait ;  aux  yeux 

des  gens  severes,  ce   sont   meme  des   tyrans ;    dans  aucun    cas, 

personne  ne  les  considere  comme  detenteurs  de  1'empire  a  titre 

regulier.    Je  ne   m'etendrai    pas    ici    sur    cette  opinion    absolue, 

tranchante,  qui  n'a  jamais   admis  la   prescription  ;    j'en  ai   assez 

longuement  parle  dans  un  autre  ouvrage.     Ce  fut  sur  cette  base  que 

les  politiques  babys  eleverent  tout  leur  edifice." 


BfB/  SHAHR-BANti  131 

Now  whether  this  marriage  really  took  place  or  not,  it  has 
been  accepted  by  the  Shi'ites  as  a  historical  fact  for  many 
centuries.  Amongst  early  authors  who  allude  to  it  we  may 
cite  al-Ya'qubf  (ed.  Houtsma,  vol.  ii,  p.  293),  an  Arabic 
historian  who  flourished  in  the  latter  part  of  the  ninth  century 
of  our  era,  and  who  concludes  his  account  of  Husayn's  tragic 
death  as  follows  : — 

"  Amongst  the  sons  of  al-Husayn  were  '  All  Akbar,  who  was  killed 
in  at-Taff,1  and  left  no  offspring,  whose  mother  was  Layla,  the 
daughter  of  Abu  Murra  b.  'Urwa  b.  Mas'iid  ath-Thaqafi ;  and  'All 
Asghar,  whose  mother  was  Harar,2  the  daughter  of  Yazdigird,  whom 
al-Husayn  used  to  call  Ghazala  ('the  Gazelle ')." 

This  Shahr-banu,  "the  Mother  of  Nine  Imams"  (the  fourth 
to  the  twelfth)  still  holds  a  place  in  the  hearts  of  her  country- 
men ;  she  gives  her  name  to  a  mountain  three 
tbeitarian      or  four  miles  south   of  Tihran  (the    Kuh-i-Bibl 
Shahr-banu)  which  no  male  footstep  may  profane, 
and  which  is  visited  by  women  who  desire  an  intercessor  with 
God   for    the  fulfilment   of  their   needs ;    and   she  is  one  of 
the    heroines   of  those    heart-moving    passion-plays    (ta'ziyas) 
which  are  yearly  enacted  in  every  Persian  town  and  colony  to 
crowds  of  weeping  spectators.     And  this  is  how  she  is  made 
to  speak  in   the  drama  entitled  "  the  Passing  of  Shahrbanu  " 
(Ta'ziya-i-ghd'ib    shudan-i-Shahr-bdnuy    Tihran,     A.H.      1314, 
p.  19)  :— 

Zi  nasl- i- Yazdijird- i-Shah riyd ram, 
Zi  Nushiiwdn  buwad  asl-i~nizdram. 
Dar  an  waqti  ki  bakhtam  kdmrdn  bud 
Baddn  shahr-i-Ray-am  andar  makdn  bud. 
Shabi  rafiam  bi-si'tyi  qa$r-i-bdbam, 
Biydmad  Hazrat-i-Zahrd  bi-khwdbam, 
Bu-guft,  'Ay  Shahr-bdnu,  bd  sad  d'in 
Turd  man  bar  Husayn  dram  bi-kdbin.' 

1  That  portion  of  Arabia  which  borders  on  the  cultivated  lands  of  'Iraq. 
1  Other  names  ascribed    by  other    writers   are,  besides  Shahr-bdn* 
(universal  amongst  the  modern  Persians),  as-Suldfa  and  Sluih-i-Zandn. 


132  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 

Bt-guflam,  'Man  nishasta  dar  M add' in, 

Husayn  andar  Madina  hast  sdktn: 

1  Muhdl-ast  in  sukhun!'    Farmiid  Zahrd, 

'  Hasan  dyad  bi-sarddri  dar  injd  ; 

'  Tu  mi-gardi  asir,  ay  bi-qarina ; 

'  Barand-at  az  Madd  'in  dar  Madina; 

1  Bi-farzandam  Husayn  paywand  sdzi, 

'Mara  az  nasl-i-khud .  khursand  sdzi. 

'  Zi  nasl-at  null  Imam  dyad  bi-dawrdn 

lKi  na-b'wad  mislashdn  dar  ddr-i-dawrdn! 

"  Born  of  the  race  of  Yazdigird  the  King 
From  Nushirwan  my  origin  I  trace. 
What  time  kind  Fortune  naught  but  joy  did  bring 
In  Ray's  proud  city  was  my  home  and  place. 
There  in  my  father's  palace  once  at  night 
In  sleep  to  me  came  Fatima  '  the  Bright ' ; 
'O  Shahr-banu'— thus  the  vision  cried — 
'I  give  thee  to  Husayn  to  be  his  bride  I* 
Said  I,  '  Behold  Mada'in  is  my  home, 
And  how  shall  I  to  far  Madina  roam?1 
Impossible  ! '     But  Fatima  cried,  '  Nay, 
Hasan  shall  hither  come  in  war's  array, 
And  bear  thee  hence,  a  prisoner  of  war, 
From  this  Mada'in  to  Madina  far, 
Where,  joined  in  wedlock  with  Husayn,  my  boy, 
Thou  shalt  bear  children  who  will  be  my  joy. 
For  nine  Imams  to  thee  shall  owe  their  birth, 
The  like  of  whom  hath  not  been  seen  on  earth ! ' " 

A  few  lines  further  on  occurs  a  passage  so  characteristic  of 

1  Madina  in  Arabia  means  "  the  city,"  and  Mada'in  is  its  plural.  The 
ancient  Yathrib,  when  honoured  by  the  flight  thither  of  the  Prophet 
Muhammad,  was  called  Madina tu'n-Nabi,  "  the  City  of  the  Prophet,"  or 
simply  al-Madina,  "  the  City."  By  Mada'in  Ctesiphon,  the  ancient  Sasanian 
capital  in  Chaldaea,  is  meant.  It  is  said  by  the  Arabian  geographers  to 
have  been  so  called  because  it  was  formed  by  the  fusion  and  coalescence 
of  seven  cities  (madd'in).  See  Barbier  de  Meynard's  Did.  de  la  Perse, 
p.  519.  The  confusion  between  Ray  (the  ancient  Rhagae,  near  the  modern 
Tihran)  and  Ctesiphon  is  merely  one  indication  of  the  essentially  popular 
and  unscientific  character  of  these  ta'ziyas,  which  makes  their  testimony 
to  the  national  feeling  the  more  significant.  The  sentiments  embodied  by 
them  are  not  those  of  pedants,  but  of  the  nation. 


BiBt  SHAHR-BANll  133 

the  Persian  hatred  of  'Umar  and  love  of  'All  that  I  cannot 
forbear  quoting  it  in  this  connection.  Shahr-banii  is  brought  to 
Madina  in  a  litter,  as  befits  a  king's  daughter,  by  the  chivalrous 
Hasan,  but  then  her  troubles  begin  : — 

"  Wali  chun  shud  Madina  manzil-i-ind 
Gham-i-'dlam  fuzi'in  shud  bar  dil-i-md. 
Yaki  guftd  ki,  '  In  dukhtar  kaniz-ast ' : 
Yaki  guftd,  '  Bi-shahr-i-khud  'aziz-ast.' 
Bi-masjid  mard  u  zan  dar  bam  mahzar, 
Mard  nazd-i-'  Umar  burdand,  mddar  I 
Kaldmi  guft  Kazu  dar  khurush-am: 
Bu-guft,  'In  bi-kasdn-rd  mi-funhham  !  ' 
1  AH  jiddat  chu  bar  dmad  khurushdn 
Bu-guftd,  '  Lab  bi-band,  ay  di'in-i-ndddn  f 
Na-shdyad  burdan,  ay  mal'un-i-ghadddr 
Buzurgdn-rd  sar-i-'urydn  bi-bdzdrl' 
Pas  az  dn  khwdrt,  ay  nur-i-dii  '  ayn-am, 
Bi-bakhshidand  bar  bdbat  Husayn-am. 
Husayn  karda  wasiyyat  bar  man-i-zdr 
Na-manam  dar  miydn-i-Al-i-At-hdr. 
Agar  mdnam,  asir  u  khwdr  gardam, 
Btrahna-sar  bi-har  bazar  gardam. 
Ti'i,  ch»n  hasti  Imdm  u  Shahriydram, 
Bi-dast-i-tust,  mddar,  ikhtiydram. 
Agar  gii'i,  rawant,  dard-at  bi-jdnam  ; 
§aldh-am  gar  na-mi-ddni,  bi-mdnarn  I ' 

"But  when  at  last  I  reached  Madina' s  town 
A  whole  world's  sorrow  seemed  to  weigh  me  down. 
One  cried,  '  This  girl  a  serving-maid  shall  be  ! " 
Another,  '  Nay,  she  was  of  high  degree  1 ' 
The  women  thronged  the  roofs ;  the  mosque,  the  men  : 
O  Mother  I    Me  they  bore  to  'Umar  then, 
Who  spoke  a  word  that  caused  me  pain  untold : 
'These  hapless  wretches  shall  as  slaves  be  sold  1' 
But  'All  then  appeared  upon  the  scene, 
And  cried,  '  Be  silent,  fool  and  coward  mean  ! 
These  gentle  women,  traitor,  void  of  grace, 
Shall  not  stand  naked  in  the  market-place  ! ' 
Light  of  mine  eyes !    After  such  treatment  dire, 
They  gave  me  to  Husayn,  thy  noble  sire, 


134  THE  S AS  AN  I  AN  PERIOD 

Who  did  advise  poor  me,  to  spare  me  pain, 
That  after  him  I  should  not  here  remain. 
Should  I  remain,  enslaved,  in  fashion  base, 
I  should  be  driven  through  each  market-place. 
Now,  Mother,  dear,  Imam  and  Sov'reign  mine, 
Into  thy  hands  my  option  I  resign. 
Bid  my  fare  forth,  my  bosom  filled  with  pain, 
Or  bid  me  tarry,  and  I  will  remain  ! '  " 

A  darker  picture  of  the  Sasanians  is  presented  by  Christian, 

notably    by    Syrian,    writers,   a   source   of  information    "  not 

sufficiently  used,"  as  Noldeke  remarks,  "  by  most 

Views  of  Chris-     -~    ,  ..,,,_  -        .        . 

tian  subjects  and    Orientalists.  1  WO    Works    of   this    claSS    in    par- 

contemporaries       .      , 

of  the         ticular  may  be  recommended  to  those  students  of 

Sasanians. 

Persian  history  who,  like  the  writer,  are  un- 
fortunately unable  to  consult  this  literature  in  the  original. 
The  first  is  the  Chronicle  of  Joshua  the  Stylite,1  composed  in 
A.D.  507,  describing  the  Persian  invasion  of  Asia  Minor  by 
Kawad,  and  especially  the  sufferings  of  Edessa  and  Amid 
(now  'Urfa  and  Diyar  Bekr)  in  the  beginning  of  the  sixth 
century  of  our  era.  The  other  is  the  Acts  of  the  Persian 

Martyr sf  excerpted  from  various Syriac  manuscripts 
Tmarteirsan  anc^  trans'ate^  mto  German  with  the  most  scholarly 

notes,  by  George  Hoffmann.  In  these  books,  both 
on  political  and  religious  grounds,  it  is  natural  that  the  Persians 
should  be  depicted  in  rather  lurid  colours,  but  in  the  first,  at 
any  rate,  it  does  not  appear  that  they  acted  more  cruelly  or 
more  falsely  than  their  Christian  antagonists,  though  it  is 
natural  enough  that  the  author,  writing  within  two  or  three 
years  of  the  war  which  had  desolated  his  home,  should  occa- 
sionally speak  of  them  in  such  terms  as  these  : — "  Now  the 
pleasure  of  this  wicked  people  is  abundantly  made  evident  by 
this,  that  they  have  not  shown  mercy  unto  those  who  were 

1  Text  and  translation  published  at  Cambridge  (1882)  by  the  late  Dr. 
W.  Wright. 

"  Auszuge  aus  Syrischen  Akten  Persischer  Mitrtyrer  .  .  ,  von  Georg 
Hoffmann  (Leipzig,  1880). 


TOLERATION  A   SIN  135 

delivered  up  unto  them  ;  for  they  have  been  accustomed  to 
show  their  pleasure  and  to  rejoice  in  evil  done  to  the  children 
of  men." 

Religious  feeling,  indeed,  ran  high  on  both  sides,  and  in  the 

matter  of  toleration   there  was  little  to  choose  between  the 

Zoroastrian   and    the   Christian    priesthoods.      A 

reilgiousebtas     g°°d  instance  of  the  extent  to  which  judgment  of 

character   was    influenced    by   purely   theological 

considerations    is    afforded    by    comparing    the    accounts    of 

Yazdigird  I  (A.D.  399-420)  given  by  the  Arabic 

Yazdigird  "the    historians  (who  drew  their  information  and  their 

sinner.  V 

views  ultimately  from  the  Pahlawi  Book  of  Kings, 
which  was  composed  under  the  influence  of  the  Magian  priests) 
with  a  Syriac  account  of  the  same  king's  character  from  the  pen 
of  a  contemporary  Christian  writer.  In  the  former  Yazdigird  is 
called  "the  sinner  "  (Pers.  Baza-gar,  Arab.  al-Ath\m\  and  his 
wickedness,  frowardness,  and  tyranny  are  described  as  almost 
superhuman.  In  the  latter  he  is  spoken  of  in  the  following 
terms  :  "  the  good  and  merciful  King  Yazdigird,  the  Christian, 
the  blessed  amongst  the  kings,  may  he  be  remembered  with 
blessing,  and  may  his  future  be  yet  more  fair  than  his  earlier 
life  !  Every  day  he  doeth  good  to  the  poor  and  the  distressed." * 
So  too  Khusraw  I  (A.D.  531-578)  gained  the  title  of 

Niishirwan  (Anhshak-rubdn,  "of  immortal  soul"), 
N"shj™t"  th°  ky  which  he  is  still  remembered  as  the  very 

embodiment  of  kingly  virtue  and  justice,  by  his 
high-handed  suppression  of  the  heresy  of  the  communist 
Mazdak,  which,  in  the  eyes  of  the  intolerant  Magian  priests, 
constituted  his  chief  claim  to  "  immortality "  ;  and  such 
service  has  their  approval  done  him  that  Sa'di,  zealous  Muham- 
madan  as  he  was,  says  : — 

"  Zinda'st  ndm-i-farrukh-t-Nushirwdn  bi-'adl, 
Garchi  basi  guzasht  ki  Nushiiwdn  na-mdnd" 


See  Noldeke's  Gcsch.  d,  Sasaniilcn,  p.  74,  n.  3  ad  calc. 


136  THE  S AS  AN  I  AN  PERIOD 

"The  blessed  name  of  Nushirwan  doth  still  for  justice  stand, 
Though  long  hath  passed  since  Nushirwan  hath  vanished  from 
the  land." 


For    the   Christians,   too,   Nushirwan,   as   we   learn   from 

Dmawari  (p.  72),  entertained  the  greatest  contempt.     When 

his  son  Anusha-zadh,  who  had  espoused  the  faith 

Ntishirwan's  ..  .  .      — ,,     .     .  .       .  .          ,  .  . 

opinion  of  the    of  his  Christian  mother,  revolted  against  him,  and 

Christians.         ...  .—       .    .  .  .        _        . 

his  viceroy  at  Ctesiphon  wrote  to  him  for  instruc- 
tions, he  wrote  in  his  reply  as  follows  :  "  Let  not  the  multitude 
of  the  people  affright  thee,  for  they  have  no  enduring  might. 
How,  indeed,  shall  the  Christians  endure,  when  it  is  prescribed 
in  their  religion  that  if  one  of  them  be  smitten  on  the  left 
cheek,  he  shall  offer  the  right  also  ?  " 

To  return  now  to  the  scope  of  this  chapter.     Being  unable 
to  do  more  than  glance  at  certain  points  in  the  history  of  this 

period,  I  propose  to  speak  especially  of  its 
!f°thisacnhdapter  beginning  and  its  end  ;  the  first,  which  is  largely 

mixed  with  legend  and  fable,  in  order  that  I  may 
have  an  opportunity  of  comparing  certain  episodes  therein  as 
sung  by  Firdawsi  in  the  Shdhndma  with  the  same  episodes  as 
narrated  in  the  Pahlawl  Kdr-ndmak-i-Artakshatr-i-Pdpakdn ; 
the  last,  as  having  an  immediate  connection  with  the  Arab  Con- 
quest which  marks  the  inauguration  of  the  modern,  or  Muham- 
madan  period.  Besides  this,  two  religious  movements  of  this 
epoch — those  associated  with  the  names  of  Manes  (Mani)  and 
Mazdak — deserve  some  notice,  as  early  instances  of  that 
passion  for  philosophical  speculation  which  is  so  remarkable  a 
characteristic  of  the  Persians,  who  have  probably  produced  more 
great  heresiarchs  than  any  other  nation  in  the  world.  Of 
these  two  men  the  first  was  born,  according  to  his  own  state- 
ment,1 during  the  reign  of  Ardawan  (Artabanus)  the  last 
Parthian  king,  and  was  contemporary  with  the  founder  of  the 

1  See  al-Biruni's  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations,  translated  by  Sachau 
(London,  1879),  p.  121. 


LEGEND   OF  ARDASHJR  137 

Sasanian  dynasty  ;  the  second,  as  we  have  seen,  was  put  to 
death  by  Nushirwan  in  A.D.  528  or  529,  at  which  time  the 
Sasanian  power  was  at  its  height,  though  the  first  symptoms  of 
its  decline  were  not  far  distant.  This  chapter  will  therefore  fall 
into  four  divisions — namely,  (i)  The  Legend  of  Ardashir  and 
the  foundation  of  the  Sasanian  dynasty;  (2)  Manes  and  the 
Manichaean  doctrine;  (3)  Nushirwan  and  Mazdak  ;  (4)  the 
last  days  of  the  House  of  Sasan. 

I.  The  Legend  of  Ardashir. 

The  principal  episodes  of  this  Legend,  as  presented  by  the 
Pahlawi  K&rn&mak  (of  which  I  make  use  of  Noldeke's  excellent 
German  translation,  a  tirage-a-part  of  21-69  pages,  whereof 
the  Introduction  occupies  pp.  22-34)  and  the  Shdhndma 
(Macan's  Calcutta  ed.,  vol.  iii,  pp.  1365-1416)  areas  follows. 

(1)  Sasan,  fifth  in  descent  from    Bahman   "  Dirds-dast"  (Longi- 
manus,    see  p.  117  supra),  enters  the  service  of  Papak  (Babak), 
Prince  of  Pars,  as  a  herdsman.    Papak,  warned  in  a  dream  of  Sasan's 
kingly  origin,  raises  him  to  high  honour  and  confers  on  him  the  hand 
of  his  daughter.     Of  this  union  Ardashir  is  the  offspring  (K.  36-38  ; 
Sh.  1365). 

(2)  Papak  adopts  Ardashir  as  'his  son,  and  as  he  grows  up  the 
fame  of  his  courage,  wisdom,  and  knightly  virtues  reaches  Ardawan, 
the  last  Parthian   King,   who   summons  him  to  his  court  at  Ray. 
There  he  is  honourably  entertained,  until  one  day  out  hunting  he 
gives  the  lie  to  one  of  Ardawan's  sons  who  claims  a  remarkable  shot 
made  in  reality  by  him.    Thereupon  he  is  disgraced,  and  dismissed 
to  serve  in  the  Royal  stables  (K.  38-41  ;  Sh.  1366). 

(3)  A  beautiful   and  wise  maiden  who  enjoys  Ardawan's  fullest 
confidence  takes  pity  upon  Ardashir,  provides   two  swift  horses, 
and  escapes  with  him  to  Pars.    Ardawan  pursues  them,  but  turns 
back  on  learning  that  the  "  Royal  Splendour,"  personified  as  a  fine 
ram,  has  caught  up  Ardashir  and  rides  behind  him  on  his  horse 
(K.  41-46  ;  Sh.  1370). 

(4)  Ardashir's  wars  with  the  Parthians  and  others  ;  his  defeat  of 
Ardawan  and  his  son,  and  his  reverse  at  the  hands  of  the  Kurds 
(K.  46-49  ;  Sh.  1374). 

(5)  The  episode  of  Haftan-b6kht  (Haftawad)  and  the  monstrous 


138  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

worm  of  Kirman,  including  the  war  with  Mithrak  (Mihrak)  (K.  49- 
57  ;  Sh.  1381). 

(6)  How  Ardawan's  daughter,   married   to  Ardashir,  is    by  him 
doomed  to  death  ;  how  her  life  is  saved  by  the  chief  mubad  (named 
Abarsam  by  Tabari) ;  how  she  brings  forth  a  son,  who  is  named 
Shapur  (Shdh-puhar,  "  King's  son  ") ;  and  how  the  boy  is  recognised 
by  his  father  (K.  57-63  ;  Sh.  1392). 

(7)  Ardashir,  having  learned  from  the  King   of   India,  Kayt  or 
Kayd,  that  the  sovereignty  of  Persia  will  be  in  his  family  or  in  that 
of  his  enemy  Mihrak,  endeavours  to  extirpate  the  latter.     One  of 
Mihrak's  daughters  is  saved  from  the  massacre,  and  brought  up 
amongst  peasants.     Shapur   sees  and  falls   in  love  with   her,  but 
conceals  his  marriage,  and  the  birth  of  his  son  Hurmuzd  in  which 
it  results,  from  his  father  Ardashir.    Hurmuzd,  when  seven  years  old, 
is  recognised  by  his  grandfather  by  his  boldness  on  the  polo  field 
(K.  64-68  ;  Sh.  1397). 


No  one  who  has  read  the  Kar-n&mak  and  this  portion  of  the 
Shdhndma  side  by  side  can  fail  to  be  greatly  impressed  by  the 
general  fidelity,  even  in  minute  details,  with  which  the  latter 
reproduces  the  former  ;  and  our  opinion  of  Firdawsfs  faithful 
adherence  to  genuine  old  legends  is  equally  strengthened  by  a 
comparison  of  the  Pahlawi  legend  of  Zanr  (Tdtkdr-i-Zarlrdn, 
translated  into  German  by  Geiger) *  with  the  corresponding 
part  of  the  Shdhndma.  Now  it  is  a  mere  accident  that  we 
happen  to  be  able  to  check  these  portions  by  the  originals,  and 
we  may  fairly  assume  that  elsewhere,  where  we  have  no  such 
means  of  control,  the  poet  is  equally  conscientious  in  his 
adherence,  even  in  detail,  to  ancient  legend.  Space,  however, 
will  not  allow  the  comparison  in  this  place  of  more  than  one 
or  two  incidents  of  these  two  versions  of  the  Legend  of 
Ardashir.  We  will  begin  with  the  account  of  his  birth. 


1  See  the  Sitzungsberichte  d.  K.  b.  Akademie  d.  Wiss.  zu  Mfinchen  for 
1890,  vol.  i,  pp.  43-84  :  Das  Yatkdr-i  Zanrdn  und  sein  Verhttltniss  znni 
Shah-ndma  by  Geiger  ;  and  Noldeke's  Persische  Stttdien,  II  :  Das  Buch 
von  Zarer,  in  the  Sitzungsberichte  d.  phil.  hist.  Classe  der  K.  Akad.  d.  Wissen- 
schaften  for  1892  (Vienna),  vol.  cxxvi,  Abhandlung  12. 


LEGEND  OF  ARDASH/R  139 


Karnamak. 

"After  the  death  of  Alexander  the  Roman  there  were  in  Iran 
240  tribal  princes.  Ispahan,  Pars,  and  the  neighbouring  lands  were 
in  the  hands  of  the  chief  of  them,  Ardawan.  Papak  was  Warden 
of  the  Marches  and  Prince  of  Pars  and  Governor  for  Ardawan. 
Papak  dwelt  in  Stakhr  ;  he  had  no  son  who  might  be  able  preserve 
his  name.  Sasan  was  a  herdsman  of  Papak  and  abode  ever  with  the 
flocks  ;  but  he  was  of  the  race  of  Dara  the  son  of  Dara.  During  the 
evil  reign  of  Alexander  he  had  fled  away  and  gone  forth  with  Kurdish 
shepherds.  Papak  knew  not  that  Sasan  was  of  the  race  of  Dara  the 
son  of  Dara.  Now  one  night  Papak  dreamed  that  the  Sun  from  the 
head  of  Sasan  illuminated  the  whole  world.  Next  night  he  saw 
Sasan  riding  on  a  richly-caparisoned  white  elephant,  while  all 
throughout  the  whole  Kishwar  (region,  clime)  surrounded  him, 
tendered  him  their  homage,  and  invoked  on  him  praises  and 
blessings.  On  the  third  night  he  saw  how  the  (sacred)  Fires  Froba, 
Gushasp,  and  Mithr  waxed  great  in  the  house  of  Sasan  and  gave 
light  to  the  whole  world.  This  amazed  him,  and  so  he  summoned 
before  him  the  wise  men  and  interpreters  of  dreams  and  related 
to  them  what  he  had  dreamed  on  all  three  nights.  Then  said  the 
interpreters  of  dreams,  '  Either  the  man  himself  concerning  whom 
thou  hast  dreamed  this,  or  one  of  his  children,  will  attain  to  the 
lordship  of  the  world  :  for  the  sun  and  the  richly-caparisoned  white 
elephant  signify  Strength,  Might,  and  Victory,  while  the  Fire  Froba 
signifies  men  well  instructed  in  religion,  and  eminent  over  their 
peers  ;  the  Fire  Gushasp,  warriors  and  captains  of  hosts ;  and  the 
Fire  Burjin-Mihr,  the  peasants  and  husbandmen  of  the  whole  world. 
So  the  kingship  will  accrue  to  this  man  or  to  his  children.'  When 
Papak  heard  this  speech,  he  dismissed  every  one,  summoned  Sasan 
before  him,  and  asked  him,  '  Of  what  family  and  stock  art  thou  ? 
Was  any  one  of  thy  fathers  or  forbears  a  ruler  or  sovereign  ? '  Then 
Sasan  prayed  Papak  for  indulgence  and  safety  [with  the  words] 
'  Inflict  not  on  me  hurt  or  harm.'  Papak  agreed  to  this,  and  there- 
upon Sasan  revealed  to  him  his  secret,  and  who  he  was.  Then 
Papak  was  glad,  and  said,  '  I  will  promote  thee ; '  whereupon,  at  his 
bidding,  a  full  royal  dress  was  brought  to  him  and  given  to  Sasan 
[and  he  bade  him]  '  Put  it  on.'  Sasan  did  so,  and  at  Papak's  com- 
mend, he  then  strengthened  himself  for  some  days  with  good  and 
proper  meals.  Later,  he  gave  him  his  daughter  in  marriage,  and 
when  the  time  (according  to  the  predestination  of  fate)  was  in  accord, 
the  girl  forthwith  conceived,  and  from  her  Artakhshir  was  born." 


f40  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

Shdhndma  (ed.  Macan,  vol.  iii,  pp.  1365-1367). 

"When  on  the  wael-stow  Dara  his  doom  met 
From  all  his  House  her  face  Fortune  averted. 
Him  did  a  son  survive,  worthy  of  worship, 
Wary  and  wise  in  war,  Sasan  ycleped, 
Who,  when  he  saw  his  sire  thus  foully  smitten, 
Saw,  too,  on  Persia's  arms  Fortune  look  frowning, 
Fled  from  his  foes  of  Greece,  swift  and  fleet-footed, 
Stayed  not  to  stumble  on  snares  of  ill  fortune. 
In  distant  lands  of  Ind  death  overtook  him, 
Where  he  in  turn  a  son  left  to  succeed  him. 

Thus  in  like  wise  for  four  generations 
From  sire  to  son  the  name  Sasan  descended. 
Herdsman  were  these  and  hinds,  tenders  of  cattle, 
Laden  each  year  long  with  heavy  burdens. 

When  now  the  last  in  birth  came  unto  Babak, 
And  on  the  grazing-grounds  sought  the  head-herdsman, 
'  Hast  thou,'  he  questioned  him,  '  need  for  an  hireling, 
Who  here  is  fain  to  dwell,  even  in  hardship  ? ' 
Him  the  head-herdsman  hired  to  his  service, 
Holding  him  night  and  day  unto  long  labour. 
So  for  a  while  the  man  thus  did  continue, 
Heart-sick  and  woe-worn,  wearied  with  toiling. 

Sunk  in  deep  slumber  Babak  one  night  slept, 

And  his  bright  spirit  thus  in  his  dream  saw. 

On  a  fierce  elephant  Sasan  was  seated, 

Held  in  his  hand  a  sharp  sword-blade  of  India, 

While  those  who  ringed  him  round  in  adoration 

Bowed  down,  and  on  him  blessings  invoked. 

He  by  right  rule  and  wise  made  the  earth  prosper, 

And  from  the  saddened  soul  banished  the  sorrow. 

When  on  the  second  night  Babak  to  sleep  sank, 
Care  of  his  anxious  mind  was  the  companion. 
Thus  in  his  dream  he  saw  now,  that  the  Fire-Priest 
Held  in  his  hand  aloft  three  flaming  censers, 
Kharrad  and  Mihr-fires,  Adhar-Gushasp  too,1 


1  On  these  three  most  sacred  Fires,  see  Noldeke's  note  in  his  trans- 
lation of  the  Kdr-ndmak  (p.  37,  n.  3  ad  calc,).  Kharrad  in  Firdawsi 
stands  for  Frobd,  Frobag,  or  Farnbag. 


141 

Brilliantly  blazing  like  the  bright  heavens, 

There  before  Sasan  fiercely  were  flaring, 

While  in  each  blazing  fire  aloe-wood  smouldered. 

Then  from  his  slumber  Babak  awaking 
Felt  in  his  anxious  heart  fearful  forebodings. 
Such  as  were  wise  to  read  dreamings  and  visions, 
Such  as  were  skilled  in  solving  of  riddles,     . 
Straightway  assembled  at  Babak's  palace, 
Seers  and  Saga-men,  skilful  in  learning. 
Then  unto  these  revealed  Babak  his  vision, 
And  all  his  dreamings  frankly  unfolded, 
While  the  dream-readers,  pondering  deeply, 
Lent  all  their  ears  while  forming  their  answer. 

Answered  the  spokesman  then,  'King,  highly  favoured, 
Look  we  now  closely  to  the  dream's  showing. 
He  whom  thou  sawest  thus  in  thy  slumber  • 
High  o'er  the  sun  shall  lift  his  head  in  lordship. 
Even  though  he  should  fail  in  the  fulfilment, 
Him  will  a  son  succeed  earth  to  inherit.' 
Blithely  did  Babak  lend  ear  to  this  answer, 
Unto  each  gifts  he  gave  after  his  measure. 

Then  Babak  straightway  hailed  the  head-herdsman ; 

Forth  from  the  flocks  he  came  through  the  thick  fog-drifts, 

Breasting  the  sleet  and  snow,  wrapped  in  his  blanket, 

Fear  in  his  bosom,  frost  on  his  fur-cloak.1 

When  from  his  audience-hall  Babak  had  ousted 

Strangers,  alike  both  statesman  and  servant, 

Then  by  his  side  the  shepherd  he  seated, 

Graciously  greeted  him,  asked  him  of  Sasan, 

Asked  of  his  lineage  and  of  his  fore-bears, 

While,  with  foreboding  filled,  Sasan  sat  silent. 

Then  at  length  spake  he,  'Sire,  to  thy  shepherd 
If  thou  wilt  freely  grant  grace  and  forgiveness, 
All  that  concerns  my  race  I  will  discover, 
If,  hand  in  hand,3  with  oath  thou  wilt  assure  me 


1  Noldeke  (loc.  cii.t  p.  26)  notices  this  especially  as  one  of  the  graphic 
touches  whereby  Firdawsi  strove  to  give  life  and  colour  to  the  curt,  dry 
narrative  of  the  Pahlawi  original. 

'  Concerning  the  "  hand-contract "  see  the  Vendiddd,  Fargard  iv,  v.  3 
Dannesteter's  English  transl.  in  S.  B.  E,,  vol  i,  p.  35). 


142 


That  neither  privily  nor  yet  in  public 

Thou  wilt  attempt  to  wreak  on  me  thy  vengeance.' 

Babak,  thus  hearing,  loosened  his  tongue  in  speech : 

Much  made  he  mention  of  the  All-Giver, 

Saying,  '  I  swear  no  hurt  shall  befal  thee, 

Nay,  I  will  hold  thee  honoured  and  noble' 

Then  spake  the  youth  again  freely  to  Babak, 

'  Know,  valiant  knight,  that  Sasan  my  sire  is, 

Who  from  King  Ardashir's  seed  was  descended, 

(He  who  is  called  by  you  '  Bahman  the  Long-hand'); 

Of  brave  Isfandiyar  he  was  the  offspring, 

Who  of  King  Gushtasp's  fair  fame  was  the  guardian.'1 

When  Babak  heard  this,  tear-floods  he  rained 

From  those  clear  eyes  which  gazed  on  the  vision. 

Then  kingly  garments  brought  he  from  out  his  store, 

And  eke  a  horse  equipped  with  lordly  harness. 

'  Hence  to  the  bath,'  quoth  he,  '  hie  thee  in  all  haste, 

And  there  abide  till  fit  raiment  be  brought  thee.' 

Soon  a  fair  palace  built  he  for  Sasan ; 
(Thus  from  the  herdsman  did  he  upraise  him), 
And  in  this  palace  when  he  had  placed  him 
Bondsmen  and  servants  set  he  before  him, 
Gave  him  all  gear  and  garb  needful  for  lordship, 
And  of  all  goods  and  gifts  ample  endowment, 
Last,  his  dear  daughter  gave  him  in  wedlock, 
Crown  of  his  glory  she,  and  his  heart's  darling. 

When  o'er  the  moon-faced  maid  nine  moons  had  waned 

To  her  a  son  was  born,  radiant  as  sun-light, 

Like  unto  Ardashir,  famed  in  the  older  time, 

Graceful,  and  growing  daily  in  favour. 

Him  too  his  father  Ardashir  named, 

By  him  his  grand-sire  greatly  was  gladdened." 


1  The  tracing  of  the  Sasanian  pedigree  to  Gushtasp  (Vi'shtaspa),  the 
protector  of  Zoroaster,  and  the  first  "  Defender  of  the  Faith  "  is  part  of 
the  general  plan  which  aims  at  representing  them  as  the  direct  and 
legitimate  heirs  of  the  ancient  Persian  kings,  and  the  hereditary 
champions  of  "the  Good  Religion." 


LEGEND   OF  ARDASHJR  143 

The  next  episode  which  I  shall  give  is  the  flight  of 
Ardashir  from  Ardawin's  court  at  Ray  to  Pars,  accompanied 
by  the  beautiful  and  wise  maiden  (called  Gulnar  by  Firdawsi) 
who  had  hitherto  acted  as  Ardawan's  counsellor  and  adviser, 
but  who  is  moved  by  love  for  Ardashir  to  cast  in  her  lot 
with  him. 

Kdrndmak. 

"  Thereupon  Ardawan  equipped  an  army  of  4,000  men  and  took 

the  road  towards  Pars  after  Artakhshir.    When  it  was  mid-day  he 

came  to  a  place  by  which  the  road  to  Pars  passed,  and  asked,  '  At 

what  time  did  those  two  riders  whose  faces  were  set  in  this  direction 

pass  by  here  ? '    Then  said  the  people,  '  Early  in  the  morning,  when 

the  sun  rose,  they  passed  by  swiftly  as  the  wind  Artai,  and  a  very 

large  ram  ran  after  them,  than  which  a  finer  could  not  be  found. 

We   know  that  already  ere  now  he  will  have  put  behind   him  a 

distance  of  many  parasangs,  and  that  it  will  be  impossible  for  you 

to  catch  him.'     So  Ardawan  tarried  not  there,  but  hastened  on. 

When  he  came  to  another  place,  he  asked  the  people,  '  When  did 

those  two  riders  pass  by  ? '     They  answered,  '  To-day  at  noon  did 

they  go  by  like  the  wind  Artai,  and  a  ram  ran  after  them.'    Then 

Ardawan  was  astonished  and  said,  '  Consider :  the  two  riders  we 

know,  but  what  can  that  ram  be  ? '    Then  he  asked  the  Dastiir,  who 

replied,  '  That  is  the  Kingly  Splendour  (Klnirra-i-Khud 'd' 'Hi)  ;  it  hath 

not  yet  overtaken  him,  but  we  must  make  haste ;  it  is  possible  that 

we  may  catch  them   before   it  overtakes  them.'     Then  Ardawan 

hastened  on  with  his  horsemen.     On  the   second  day  they  had 

put  behind  them  seventy  parasangs  :   then  a  caravan  met  them. 

Ardawan  asked   the  people,  '  In   what  place  did  you  meet  those 

two  riders?'    They  replied,   'Between   you  and   them   is  still  a 

distance  of  twenty  parasangs.     We  noticed  that  beside  one  of  those 

riders  a  very  large  and  mighty  ram  sat  on  the  horse.' *  Ardawan 

asked  the  Dastiir,  '  What  signifies  this  ram  which  is  beside  him  on 

the  horse  ?'     He  answered,  '  May'st  thou  live  for  ever  !    The  Royal 

Splendour    (Khurrak-i-Kaydn  =  Firdawsi's  farr-i-kaydni,    and    the 

Kait'acm  Hwareno  of  the  Avesta)  hath  overtaken   Ardashir ;  in  no 

wise  can  we  now  take  them  captive.    Therefore  weary  not  yourself 

and  your  horsemen  more,  nor  further  tire  the   horses,  lest  they 

succumb.    Seek  in  some  other  way  to  prevail  against  Artakhshir.' 

When  Ardawan  heard  this,  he  turned  back  and  betook  himself 

again  to  his  home." 


144  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 


Shdhndma. 

"Then  did  the  King  perceive  plain  that  the  maiden 
With  Ardashir  had  fled,  his  favours  scorning. 
Thereat  his  heart  was  stirred  into  dire  anger, 
And,  on  his  chestnut  horse  hastily  mounting, 
Called  he  his  horsemen  bold  out  on  the  war-trail, 
And  on  the  southward  road  forth  like  a  fire  flamed. 

On  the  road  came  he  to  a  fair  township, 
Wherein  were  many  men  and  countless  cattle. 
Of  them  demanded  he  whether  at  day-break 
Any  had  heard  the  beat  of  horses'  hoof-strokes, 
Or  had  beheld  a  pair  riding  right  hotly, 
One  on  a  snow-white  steed,  one  on  a  black  barb. 
Answered  one,  'Yea,  hard  by  on  the  road  here, 
Forth  to  the  plain  fared  two  with  their  horses, 
And  at  the  horses'  heels  galloped  a  wild  sheep, 
Which,  like  the  horses,  hurled  dust-clouds  behind  it* 

Then  quoth  King  Ardawan  to  his  adviser, 

'What  was  this  mountain-sheep  which  ran  behind  them?' 

Answered  the  other,  '  That  Royal  Splendour 

Which,  by  his  lucky  star,  leads  him  to  lordship. 

If  now  this  sheep  should  o'ertake  him  in  running 

Naught  there  is  left  us  saving  long  labour.' 

There  then  King  Ardawan  hastily  halted, 
Rested,  refreshed  him,  then  hastened  onward. 
After  Prince  Ardashir  hotly  they  hurried, 
At  their  head  Ardawan  with  his  adviser. 

(Fifteen  couplets,  II.  10-24,  omitted.') 

When  of  the  day  had  passed  half,  and  the  world-light 
Up  to  the  midmost  point  heaven  had  measured, 
Saw  he  again  a  fair  hamlet  and  fragrant, 
Where,  too,  the  village-folk  hastened  to  meet  him. 
Thus  quote  the  King  once  more  unto  their  head-man, 
'Tell  me,  these  riders,  how  passed  they  your  hamlet?' 
Thus  quoth  the  head-man  :  '  Lord  of  fair  fortune, 
Born  'neath  a  lucky  star,  cunning  in  counsel ! 
What  time  the  sun  in  high  heaven  was  paling, 
And  night  was  spreading  her  purple  vestment, 


LEGEND  01^  ARDASH/R  145 

Hard  by  our  hamlet  two  riders  hastened, 

Dry  were  their  lips  with  thirst,  their  raiment  dust-stained, 

And  behind  one  on  the  saddle  a  sheep  sat : 

In  palace  hunting-scenes  ne'er  was  its  like  met.' 

Then  to  King  Ardawan  spake  his  adviser  : 

'Turn  we  now  back  again  whither  we  came  from, 

Since  now  the  matter  changeth  its  aspect, 

In  that  King  Ardashir's  luck  rides  behind  him. 

So  with  hands  empty  will  the  quest  leave  us. 

Unto  thy  son  now  send  thou  a  letter, 

Unto  him,  point  by  point,  make  clear  the  matter, 

That  he,  perchance,  may  gain  trace  of  our  quarry, 

Ere  of  the  mountain-sheep's  milk  he  partaketh.' 

When  Ardawan  had  heard  thus  from  the  spokesman 
He  for  a  surety  knew  his  fortune  faded. 
So  in  the  hamlet  straight  he  alighted, 
And  rendered  praises  to  the  All-Giver. 
But  when  the  night  was  spent,  at  early  morning, 
Bade  he  his  armed  host  turn  themselves  homewards. 
So,  with  cheeks  sallow  like  the  scorched  reed-bed, 
Did  he  to  Ray  return  in  the  dark  twilight." 

The  Legend  of  Haftan-bokht  (Haftawad  in  the  ShJh- 
nAma]  and  the  Worm  of  Kirman  is  too  interesting  to  be 
entirely  omitted,  though  lack  of  space  compels  me  to  give 
only  that  portion  of  it  which  relates  to  the  actual  destruction 
of  this  monster.  The  connection  of  this  Worm  (Kirm]  with 
the  city  of  Kirman  is,  of  course,  a  piece  of  popular  etymology, 
but  it  serves  to  show  that  those  who  persist  in  writing  the 
name  of  this  town  as  Karm&n  adopt  a  pronunciation  which  has 
certainly  not  been  used  in  Persia  for  nine  hundred  years, 
whatever  may  have  been  the  case  in  more  ancient  times.  A 
similar  word-play  occurs  in  the  BustAn  of  Sa'di  (ed.  Graf, 
P-  87,  1.  535)."  On  the  name  Hafthn-bbkht^  "the  Seven  have 
delivered,"  Noldeke  has  a  very  interesting  note  (Kdr-n&mak, 
p.  49,  n.  4).  He  points  out  that  many  names,  notably  of 
Christians,  were  compounded  with  the  word  bbkht,  "hath 
delivered,"  e.g.,  MArA-bokht, "  the  Lord  hath  delivered," 

II 


146  THE  SAsANIAN  PERIOD 


t^  or  Bukht-yishu1^  "  Jesus  hath  delivered,"  while  amongst 
Zoroastrians  we  find  St-&6tht,u"tbt  Three  (i.e.,  good  thoughts, 
good  words,  and  good  deeds)  have  delivered,"  and  Chahar- 
bokhty  "  the  Four  have  delivered."  "  The  Seven  "  referred  to 
in  the  name  of  Ardashir's  opponent  are,  he  adds,  the  seven 
planets,  which  belong  to  the  Creation  of  Ahriman  the  Evil 
Spirit.  This  name  is  therefore  peculiarly  appropriate  for  one 
whose  reliance  is  in  the  powers  of  hell  and  the  magic  of  the 
demons.  Firdawsi  was  compelled  by  the  exigencies  of  his 
metre  to  alter  the  name  into  Haftawcia  (explained  in  the 
Shahnama  glossaries  as  meaning  "  Having  seven  sons  "  J),  a  form 
obtainable  from  the  Pahlawi  by  excision  of  the  three  middle 
characters  of  the  word,  since  the  last  three  characters  can 
equally  well  be  read  -okht  or  -wAt.2 

Karndmak. 

"Then  he  sent  forth  people  to  wage  war  with  the  Worm, 
summoned  Burjak  and  Burjatur  before  him,  and  took  counsel 
with  them.  Thereafter  they  took  many  gold  and  silver  coins  and 
garments  ;  he  himself  [Artakhshir]  put  on  a  dress  of  Khurasan, 
came  with  Burjak  and  Burjatur  to  the  foot  of  Castle  Gular,  and  said  : 
'  I  crave  of  my  august  masters  the  boon  of  being  admitted  to  the 
service  of  the  Court.'  The  idolaters  admitted  Artakhshir  with 
the  two  men,  and  installed  them  in  the  house  of  the  Worm.  Then 
for  three  days  Artakhshir  showed  himself  eager  in  service  and  devoted 
to  the  Worm.  The  gold  and  silver  coins  and  the  garments  he 
presented  to  the  servants.  Then  all  who  were  in  the  Castle, 
marvelled  and  were  loud  in  his  praises.  Then  said  Artakhshir, 
'  It  would  give  me  pleasure  to  feed  the  Worm  for  three  days  with 
my  own  hand.'  To  this  the  servants  and  attendants  consented. 
Then  Artakhshir  dismissed  every  one,  and  commanded  an  army  of 
four  hundred  valiant  and  devoted  men  to  conceal  themselves 
opposite  that  place  in  a  cleft  of  the  mountain.  Also  he  commanded, 
'  When  on  the  day  of  Asman  3  ye  see  smoke  from  the  fortress  of  the 
Worm,  then  put  forth  your  valour  and  courage  and  come  to  the 


1  Seven  sons  are  ascribed  to  him  also  in  the  Kdrndmak,  p.  51. 
*  Noldeke's    ingenious  view    is,    however,  rejected    by   Darraesteter 
(Etudes  Iraniennes,  vol.  ii,  pp.  82-83). 
3  The  2;th  of  the  month. 


LEGEND   OF  HAFTAN-BOKHT  147 

foot  of  the  Castle.'  On  that  day  he  himself  held  the  molten  copper, 
while  Burjak  and  Burjatur  offered  praise  and  glory  to  God.  When 
now  it  was  the  time  for  its  meal  the  Worm  roared,  as  it  did  each 
day.  Artakhshir  had  previously  made  the  attendants  and  watchers 
of  the  Worm  drunk  and  senseless  at  a  meal.  Then  he  went  him- 
self with  his  attendants  to  the  Worm,  bringing  to  it  the  blood 
of  oxen  and  sheep,  such  as  it  received  daily.  But  as  soon  as  the 
Worm  opened  its  mouth  to  drink  the  blood,  Artakhshir  poured  the 
molten  copper  into  its  throat,  and  when  this  entered  its  body  it 
burst  asunder  into  two  pieces.  Thereupon  such  a  roaring  arose 
from  it  that  all  the  people  from  the  Castle  rushed  in  thither,  and 
confusion  arose  amongst  them.  Artakhshir  laid  his  hand  on  his 
shield  and  sword,  and  made  a  great  slaughter  and  massacre  in  the 
Castle.  Then  he  commanded,  '  Kindle  a  fire  such  that  the  smoke 
may  be  manifest  to  those  knights.'  This  the  servants  did,  and  when 
the  knights  who  were  in  the  mountains  saw  the  smoke  from  the 
Castle,  they  hastened  to  the  foot  of  the  Castle  to  help  Artakhshir,  and 
forced  the  entrance  with  the  cry,  '  Victorious  be  Artakhshir,  King  of 
kings,  the  son  of  Papak  ! '  " 

Slidhndma. 

"Thence  he  returned  war  with  the  Worm  to  wage, 
He  with  his  warriors  bold,  bent  on  its  slaughter. 
World-tried  and  war-wise  came  he  with  armed  hosts 
Numbering  two  thousand  over  ten  thousand. 
When  thus  his  scattered  hosts  he  had  assembled 
'Twixt  the  two  mountains  boldly  he  brought  them. 

Then  spake  King  Ardashir  unto  his  captain, 
One  who  was  skilled  in  war  and  wise  in  counsel, 
Shahr-gir  named,  '  Taker  of  cities '  : 
'Watchful  and  wakeful  thou  shalt  abide  here, 
Keeping  thy  scouts  alert  day-time  and  night-time, 
Ringing  thy  camp  around  with  ready  horsemen ; 
Sentries  about  thee,  warders  around  thee, 
By  night  and  day  shall  keep  watch  o'er  thine  army. 
Such  cunning  wile  of  war  now  will  I  venture, 
As  did  Isfandiyar,  my  noble  forbear.1 


1  The  allusion  is  to  the  capture  of  the  Brazen  Fortress  (Ru'm  Dizh), 
which   Isfandiyar  entered  as  a  merchant.     See  Shdhndma,  ed.  Macan, 

V(  il  I          r\I\         lt.il      *i      fflrtf* 


vol.  iii,  pp.  1143  et  scqq 


148 


If  then  thy  sentry  by  day  a  smoke-cloud 
Sees,  or  at  night  a  fire  like  the  sun  flaming, 
Know  then  at  last  the  Worm's  witcheries  ended, 
Know  that  its  star  is  set,  its  strength  departed.' 

Out  of  his  captains  then  seven  men  chose  he, 

Brave  men  and  valiant  all,  lions  in  warfare ; 

E'en  from  the  winds  of  heav'n  kept  he  his  counsel. 

Then  from  his  coffers  fair  gems  he  gathered, 

Gold  coins  and  rare  brocades  and  rich  possessions, 

Holding  things  priceless  cheap  in  his  prudence. 

With  lead  and  copper  then  two  chests  he  crammed  full, 

And,  midst  his  baggage  bound  one  brazen  cauldron, 

Being  well  skilled  in  crafts  and  devices 

When  in  this  wise  his  wares  had  been  chosen 
From  the  horse-master  ten  asses  claimed  he, 
And  like  an  ass-herd  in  coarse  apparel  clad, 
But  with  his  bales  filled  full  with  gold  and  silver 
Fared  he  with  anxious  heart  forth  on  the  forward  way, 
And  from  the  camp  set  his  face  to  the  fortress. 
Also  those  two  brave  peasants  who  gave  him 
Harbour  and  shelter  once  in  disaster 
Chose  he  as  comrades  on  his  forth-faring, 
Since  he  had  proved  them  loyal  and  wary. 
Thus  on  the  road  they  drew  near  to  the  fortress, 
Breasted  the  hill-ridge,  rested  to  breathe  again. 
( 

For  the  Worm's  service  sixty  were  set  apart, 

Eager  and  earnest  each  in  his  service, 

Of  whom  one  cried  aloud  as  they  approached, 

'  What  have  ye  hidden  there  in  your  boxes  ? ' 

Thus  the  King  answered  that  stern  inquiry  : 

'  Of  every  precious  stuff  samples  I  bring  you  : 

Red  gold  and  silver  white,  ornaments,  raiment, 

Dinars  and  fine  brocades,  jewels  and  sable. 

I  from  Khurasan  come  as  a  merchant, 

Leaving  luxurious  ease  for  toilsome  journeys. 

Much  wealth  have  I  amassed  by  the  Worm's  blessing, 

And  now  I  grateful  come  unto  the  Worm's  throne ; 

Since  by  its  favour  my  fortunes  prospered, 

Right  do  I  deem  it  service  to  render.' 


LEGEND  OF  HAFTAN-BdKHT  149 

When  the  Worm's  warders  thus  heard  the  tale  he  told 
Forthwith  the  fortress-gates  wide  they  flung  open. 
Then,  when  his  loads  were  laid  safe  in  the  fortress, 
Thus  did  the  King  prepare  his  task  to  finish. 
Swiftly  before  them  spread  he  the  wares  he  brought, 
Graciously  gave  to  each  what  he  most  craved. 
Then  for  the  warders  spread  he  a  rich  repast, 
And  like  a  servitor  stood  there  to  serve  them, 
Cast  loose  the  locks  and  clasps  of  chest  and  coffer, 
Brought  forth  a  beaker  brimming  with  date-wine. 
But  from  the  brimming  bowl  those  who  were  charged 
With  the  Worm's  feeding  turned  their  faces. 
Since  milk  and  rice  for  its  meal  must  they  carry 
Feared  they  that  wine  might  their  footsteps  unsteady. 

Then  to  his  feet  leaped  Ardashir  lightly, 

Crying,  'With  me  I  bear  much  milk  and  fine  rice. 

Let  me,  I  pray  you,  for  days  and  nights  three, 

Gladden  my  spirit  with  the  Worm's  service. 

Thus  in  the  world  fair  fame  shall  I  win  me, 

And  from  the  Worm's  luck  borrow  new  blessing. 

Blithely  three  days  and  nights  quaff  ye  the  wine-cup, 

And  on  the  fourth  day,  when  the  world-kindler 

Rises,  a  booth  right  royal  I'll  build  me, 

Which  shall  o'ertop  the  towers  of  the  Palace. 

I  am  a  chapman,  eager  for  custom, 

And  by  the  WTorm  much  fame  shall  I  win  me.' 

He  by  these  cunning  words  his  aim  accomplished  : 
'  Feed  thou  the  Worm,'  they  cried,  '  so  an  it  please  thee.' 
Thus  did  the  ass-herd  win  by  his  wiles  his  aim, 
While  unto  wine  and  song  wended  the  warders. 

When  these  had  drunk  deep  wine  overcame  them ; 
Thus  to  wine-worship  turned  they  from  watching. 
And  when  their  souls  were  deep  steeped  in  the  wine-cup 
Forth  fared  the  Prince  with  his  hosts  of  the  hamlet, 
Brought  with  him  copper  and  brazen  cauldron, 
Kindled  a  flaming  fire  in  the  white  daylight. 
So  to  the  Worm  at  its  meal-time  was  measured 
In  place  of  milk  and  rice  much  molten  metal. 
Unto  its  trench  he  brought  that  liquid  copper  ; 
Soft  from  the  trench  its  head  the  Worm  upraised. 
Then  they  beheld  its  tongue,  like  brazen  cymbal, 
Thrust  forth  to  take  its  food  as  was  its  custom. 


ISO  THE  S AS  AN  I  AN  PERIOD 

Into  its  open  jaws  that  molten  metal 

Poured  he,  while  in  the  trench  helpless  the  worm  writhed. 

Crashed  from  its  throat  the  sound  of  fierce  explosion 

Such  that  the  trench  and  whole  fort  fell  a-quaking. 

Swift  as  the  wind  Ardashir  and  his  comrades 

Hastened  with  drawn  swords,  arrows,  and  maces. 

Of  the  Worm's  warders,  wrapped  in  their  wine-sleep, 

Not  one  escaped  alive  from  their  fierce  onslaught. 

Then  from  the  Castle-keep  raised  he  the  smoke-wreaths 

Which  his  success  should  tell  to  his  captains. 

Hasting  to  Shahr-gir  swift  came  the  sentry, 

Crying,  '  King  Ardashir  his  task  hath  finished  ! ' 

Quickly  the  captain  then  came  with  his  squadrons, 

Leading  his  mail-clad  men  unto  the  King's  aid." 

We  see  from  the  above  extracts  not  only  the  fidelity  with 
which  Firdawsi  followed  the  Pahlawi  legend  (known  to  him, 

as  Noldeke  has  shown,  not  in  the  original,  but  in 
historiciffigaure  Persian  translations),  but  also  to  what  extent 
surkg"ndtby  legends  and  fables  gathered  round  the  perfectly 

historical  figure  of  "  Artakhshir,  King  of  kings  of 
Persia  and  non-Persia,  son  of  Papak  the  King,"  known  to  us 
not  only  from  historical  works,  but  from  coins  and  inscrip- 
tions1 dating  from  his  own  time.  With  him,  indeed,  the 
native  tradition  may  be  said  to  pass  from  mythology  to  history 
(for  the  Alexander-legend,  as  we  have  already  seen,  is  an 
importation  from  without),  a  point  well  put  by  the  historian 
Ibn  Wadih  al-Ya'qiibi  (ed.  Houtsma,  vol.  i,  pp.  178-179),  who 
flourished  towards  the  end  of  the  ninth  century  of  our  era,  in 
the  following  words  : — 

"  Persia  claims  many  supernatural  attributes  for  its  kings  which 

cannot  be  accepted  as  credible,  such  as  that  one  had  a  number  of 

mouths  and  eyes,  and  another  a  face  of  copper,2  and 

Pcrsian"egend  tnat  on  *ne  shoulders  of  another  grew  two  snakes 

and  Persian     which  ate  human  brains,3  the  long  duration  of  their 

lives,  their  keeping  death  from  mankind,  and  the  like 


1  At  Naqsh-i-Rustam.  See  Ker-Porter,  i,  pi.  xxiii,  p.  548 ;  Flandin,  iv, 
pi.  182. 

*  Isfandiyar,  called  Ruin-tan,  " having  a  body  of  brass,"  is  probably 
intended.  3  Dahak  is  here  meant. 


THE  HAji-ABAD  INSCRIPTION         151 

of  this  ;  things  which  reason  rejects,  and  which  must  be  referred  to 
the  category  of  idle  tales  and  frivolous  fables,  devoid  of  actuality. 
But  such  of  the  Persians  as  possess  sense  and  knowledge,  or  nobility 
and  distinguished  extraction,  alike  princes  and  squires  (dihqan),  tradi- 
tionists  and  men  of  culture,  neither  believe  nor  affirm  nor  repeat 
these  things,  and  we  find  them  reckoning  the  Persian  Empire  only 
from  [the  time  of]  Ardashir  Babakan.  ...  So  we  have  omitted  them 
[these  legends],  our  method  being  to  reject  what  is  of  ill  savour." 

Shapur,  the  son  of  Ardashir  (the  interesting  legend  of  whose 

birth  and  recognition,  given  in  the  Kdr-namak,  the  Shah-ndma^ 

and  most  of  the  Arabian  historians,  I  am  compelled 

Shapur  I.  .  ,       .      T¥T 

to  omit  for  lack  of  space)  is  notable  in  Western 
history  for  his  successful  campaigns  against    the    "Romans" 
and  his  capture  of  the  Emperor  Valerian,  achievements  com- 
memorated in  the  sculptures  of  Naqsh-i-Rustam 

Shapur's  inscrip-  ,     ,  . 

lions  and       and  bhapur.1      1  he  Greek  translation  attached  to 

monuments.  '  ir»ii        '    •  •      -  r      L  • 

the  short  bi-lmgual  rahlawi  inscription  or  this 
king  at  Naqsh-i-Rajab  (which  formed,  as  we  have  seen,  the 
starting-point  of  the  decipherment  of  both  the  Sasanian  and  the 
Achaemenian  inscriptions)  was  probably  cut  by  some  Greek 

prisoner.  The  longer  Haji-abad  inscription 
T^ascr^.titn^d  st'^  presents  some  difficulties,  in  spite  of  the 

labours  of  Thomas  (1868),  West  (1869),  Haug 
(1870),  and  other  scholars,  and  the  excellent  reproductions  of 
it  (casts,  copies,  and  photographs)  available.  Thomas  did 
excellent  service  in  publishing  all  the  available  Pahlawi  inscrip- 
tions, but  he  was  more  successful  in  decipherment  than  in 
interpretation,  where  his  results  were  of  the  most  amazing 
kind,  for  he  explained  several  of  these  edicts  as  professions  of 
faith  on  the  part  of  the  Sasanian  kings  in  the  God  of  the  Jews 
and  Christians,  and  in  consequence  the  divergence  between  the 
translations  offered  by  him  and  the  other  scholars  mentioned 
is  so  great  that  Lord  Curzon  says  in  his  work  on  Persia 
(vol.  ii,  pp.  116-117): — 

1  Cur?on's  Persia,  vol.  ii,  pp.  120  and  211, 


152  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

"  That  the  decipherment  of  the  Pehlevi  character  has  reached  no 
scientific  stage  of  development  is  manifest  from  the  different  read- 
ings that  have  been  given  of  the  Hajiabad  lines ;  and  sooner  than 
pin  my  faith  either  to  the  philo-Christian  theory  of  Mr.  Thomas,  or 
to  the  bowshot  theory  of  Dr.  M.  Haug,  although  I  believe  the  latter 
has  secured  the  verdict  of  most  scholars,  I  prefer  the  security  of 
unshamed  ignorance." 

No  one,  however,  who  is  at  all  capable  of  weighing  the 
evidence  can  doubt  the  general  correctness  of  the  renderings 
of  Haug  and  West,  who  had  the  advantage  over  Thomas  of 
being  familiar  with  the  book  Pahlawi.  Out  of  the  115  words 
which  constitute  the  Sisanian- Pahlawi  version,  not  more  than 
half  a  dozen  are  uncertain  in  meaning  (though  unfortunately 
they  are  of  importance  for  the  understanding  of  the  sense),  and 
the  meaning  of  the  first  six  lines  and  a  half  is  perfectly  certain. 
The  difficulty  of  fully  comprehending  the  whole  largely  arises 
from  our  absence  of  information  as  to  the  nature  of  the 
ceremony  described,  and  the  exact  object  of  the  shooting  of 
the  arrow  by  the  King  out  of  this  lonely  little  cave.  Parallels, 
however,  are  not  wanting,  and  evidently  the  shooting  of  an 
arrow  to  determine  a  site  was  not  unusual  in  Sasanian  times. 
Thus  Tabari  (Noldeke's  translation,  pp.  263-264)  and  Dina- 
wari  (p.  66)  tell  us  that  when  the  Persian  general  Wahriz, 
the  conqueror  and  governor  of  Yemen,  felt  his  death  approach- 
ing, he  called  for  his  bow  and  arrows,  bade  his  retainers  raise 
him  up,  and  shot  an  arrow  into  the  air,  commanding  those  who 
stood  by  him  to  mark  where  it  fell,  and  to  build  a  mausoleum 
for  his  body  there  ;  and  it  is  very  probable  that  the  shot  which 
forms  the  subject  of  the  Haji-abdd  inscription  was  made  for 
some  similar  purpose,  which,  were  it  known,  would  greatly 
facilitate  the  full  explanation  of  the  inscription.1 

1  That  the  practice  of  determining  a  site  by  shooting  an  arrow  con- 
tinued into  Muhammadan  times,  and  was  used  by  the  Arabs  as  well  as 
the  Persians,  is  shown  by  a  passage  in  al-Baladhuri's  Kitdbn  futuhi' l-bulddn 
(ed.  de  Goeje,  p.  276).  Compare  II  Kings  xiii,  14-19. 


THE  HAjI-ABAD  INSCRIPTION         153 

We  ought,  however,  to  refer  in  this  connection  to  a  very 
ingenious  attempt  at  a  new  translation  of  this  inscription 
made  by  Fried  rich  Miiller  in  the  Vienna  Oriental 
Journal  for  1892  (vol.  vi,  pp.  71-75).  Citing 
f°r  illustration  and  comparison  a  passage  from  the 
Iliad  (xxiii,  852)  and  an  episode  from  the  life 
of  Charles  VI  (M.  Bermann's  Maria  Theresa  u.  Joseph  //, 
p.  38),  he  takes  mino  (translated  by  Haug  as  "spirit  ")  as  a  con- 
ventional honorific  epithet  of  Royalty  at  this  time  (similar  to 
"  sublime  "  in  modern  Turkey  and  Persia  and  "  celestial "  in 
China),  chetak  (=  Baluchi  chedag,  "a  stone-arrow")  as  a 
pillar  set  up  as  a  target  ( =  Homer's  t'oroc),  and  wayak  as  a 
bird  ( =  Homer's  rpnpwv  TreAeta)  j  and  thus  translates  the 
enigmatical  inscription. 


"  This  is  the  edict  of  me,  the  Mazda  worshipper,  Shahpuhr,  placed 
amongst  the  gods,  King  of  kings  of  Persia  and  non- Persia,  of 
celestial  descent  from  God,  son  of  the  Mazda-worshipper  Artakh- 
shatr,  placed  amongst  the  gods,  King  of  kings  of  Persia,  of  celestial 
descent  from  God,  grandson  of  Papak,  placed  amongst  the  gods,  the 
King. 

"  And  when  we  shot  this  arrow,  then  we  shot  it  in  the  presence  of 
the  Satraps,  the  Princes,  the  Great  ones  and  the  Nobles  :  we  set  the 
foot  on  this  stone *  and  shot  out  the  arrow  at  one  of  these  targets  : 
where  the  arrow  was  shot,  however,  there  was  no  bird  at  hand, 
where,  if  the  targets  had  been  rightly  set  up,  the  arrow  would  have 
been  found  outwardly  visible  [or  '  sticking  in  the  ground.'] 

"  Then  we  ordered  a  target  specially  set  apart  for  His  Majesty  to 
be  erected  in  this  place.  The  Celestial  hand  [i.e.,  the  hand  of  His 
Majesty]  wrote  this  :  '  Let  no  one  set  foot  on  this  stone  or  shoot  an 
arrow  at  this  target.'  Then  I  shot  the  arrow  destined  for  the  Royal 
use  at  these  targets. 

"  This  hath  the  hand  [of  the  King]  written." 


*  More  probably  "  in  this  place,"  for  Noldeke  (Stoltze's  Persepolis,  vol.  ii, 
Introduction)  reads  the  word  hitherto  supposed  to  be  digi  or  diki  as  dt'ikt 
5=  Aramaic  diikhd,  "  place." 


154  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

2.  Manes  and  the  Manicheeans. 

At  the  end  of  the  Parthian  period,  in  the  fourth  year  ot 
King  Ardawan  (A.D.  215-216),  as  we  learn  from  the  Chronology 
of  Ancient  Nations  (Sachau's  translation,  p.  121)  of 
Mad"trine h's  tne  learned  al-Biruni  (early  eleventh  century), 
was  born  Manes,  or  Mani,  the  founder  of  the 
Manichaean  religion — a  religion  which,  notwithstanding  the 
fierce  persecutions  to  which  it  was  exposed  both  in  the  East 
and  the  West,  alike  at  the  hands  of  Zoroastrians  and  Christians, 
from  the  very  moment  of  its  appearance  until  the  extermina- 
tion of  the  unfortunate  Albigenses  in  the  thirteenth  century, 
continued  for  centuries  to  count  numerous  adherents,  and  to 
exercise  an  immense  influence  on  religious  thought  both  in 
Asia  and  Europe. 

In  the  system  which  he  founded  Manes  was  essentially 
eclectic  ;  but  though  he  drew  materials  both  from  the  ancient 
Babylonian  and  from  the  Buddhist  religions,  his  main  endeavour 
was,  as  Gibbon  has  said, "  to  reconcile  the  doctrines  of  Zoroaster 
and  Christ,"  an  attempt  which  resulted  in  his  being  "  pursued 
by  the  two  religions  with  equal  and  unrelenting  hatred."  His 
system,  however,  is  to  be  regarded  rather  as  a  Christianised 
Zoroastrianism  than  as  a  Zoroastrianised  Christianity,  since  he 
was  certainly  a  Persian  subject,  and  probably  at  least  half  a 
Persian  ;  wrote  one  of  his  books  (the  Shaburqan,  or  Shah- 
puhrakan^  characterised  by  the  Muhammadan  al-Biruni  as 
"of  all  Persian  books  one  that  may  be  relied  upon,"  since 
"Mani  in  his  law  has  forbidden  telling  lies,  and  he  had  no 
need  whatever  for  falsifying  history ")  in  Persian  for  King 
Shapur,  whose  conversion  he  hoped  to  effect,  and  was  finally 
put  to  a  cruel  death  by  one  of  Shapur's  successors.1 

The  sources  of  our  information  about  the  life,  doctrines,  and 
writings  of  Manes  are  both  Eastern  and  Western,  and  since 

1  Hormuzd,  Bahram  I  or  Bahrain  II  (see  Noldeke's  Qcsch.  d.  Sasan,, 
p.  47,  n.  5  ad  calc.). 


THE  MANICHJEANS  155 

the   former    (notably   the   Fihrist,  a/-Btrunit  Ibn    Wadih  al- 
Ta'qiibi  and  Shahrhtanl J)  have   been   made  accessible,  it  has 

been  generally  recognised  that  the  information 
^w£kdge0<5r  which  they  yield  us  is  of  a  more  reliable  character 
Ma"yttemd  hU  tnan  tnat  contained  in  the  writings  of  St.  Augustine, 

the  Acts  of  Archelaus,  &c.,  on  which  the  older 
European  accounts  of  this  remarkable  man  are  entirely  based. 
As  considerations  of  space  render  it  impossible  to  devote  more 
than  a  few  pages  to  this  topic,  which  will  be  found  fully 
discussed  in  the  books  cited  at  the  end  of  the  last  note,  we  will 
first  give  a  translation  of  al-Ya'qubi's  account  of  the  life  and 
doctrines  of  Manes  (this  being  the  only  one  of  the  four  Arabic 
authorities  above  enumerated  which  is  not  at  present  accessible 
in  a  European  translation),  and  then  add  such  few  remarks  as 
may  appear  necessary  for  the  further  elucidation  of  the  outlines 
of  the  subject. 

Al-Ya'qubi  says  : — 

"And  in  the  days  of  Shapur  the  son  of  Ardashir  appeared  Mani 
the  Zindiq,  the  son  of  Hammad,  who  invited  Shapur  to  Dualism 
and  cast  censure  upon  his  religion  (i.e.,  Zoroastrianism). 
Ai-Ya'qubi's      And  Shapur  inclined  to  him.    And  Mani  said  that  the 
Manes.         Controller  of  the  Universe  was  twofold,  and  that  there 
were  two  Eternal  Principles,  Light  and  Darkness,  two 
Creators,  the  Creator  of  Good  and  the  Creator  of  Evil.    The  Dark- 
ness and  the  Light,  each  one  of  them,  connotes  in  itself  five  ideas, 
Colour,  Taste,  Smell,  Touch,  and  Sound,  whereby  these  two  do  hear, 
see,  and  know  ;  and  what  is  good  and  beneficial  is  from  the  Light, 
while  what  is  hurtful  and  calamitous  is  from  the  Darkness. 

"  Now  these  two  [principles]  were  [at  first]  unmixed,  then  they 
became  mixed  ;  and  the  proof  of  this  is  that  there  was  [at  first]  no 


1  Fihnst  (composed  A.D.  987),  ed.  Fliigel,  pp.  328-338,  and  the  same 
with  German  translation,  introduction,  and  notes,  also  by  Fliigel  (1862)  ; 
al-Biruni's  Chronology,  translated  by  Sachau,  pp.  27,  80,  121,  189,  191,  225, 
329 ;  Ibn  Wddih,  ed.  Houtsma,  vol.  i,  pp.  180-182  ;  Shahrisidni,  trans- 
lated into  German  by  Haarbrucker,  i,  pp.  285-291.  See  also,  besides 
Beausobre  (1734)  and  Mosheim,  Baur,  Kessler,  and  Spiegel's  Erdnischc 
Altcrthiunskundc,  vol.  ii,  pp.  195-232. 


156  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 

phenomenon,  then  afterwards  phenomena  were  produced.  And  the 
Darkness  anticipated  the  Light  in  this  admixture,  for  they  were  [at 
first]  in  mutual  contact  like  the  shadow  and  the  sun  ;  and  the  proof 
of  this  is  the  impossibility  of  the  production  of  anything  save  from 
something  else.  And  the  Darkness  anticipated  the  Light  in  admix- 
ture, because,  since  the  admixture  of  the  Darkness  with  the  Light 
was  injurious  to  the  latter,  it  is  impossible  that  the  Light  should 
have  made  the  first  beginning  [therein]  ;  for  the  Light  is  by  its 
nature  the  Good.  And  the  proof  that  these  two,  Good  and  Evil,  were 
eternal,  is  that  if  one  substance  be  posited,  two  opposite  actions 
will  not  proceed  from  it  Thus,  for  example,  Fire  [which  is],  hot 
and  burning,  cannot  refrigerate,  while  that  which  refrigerates  cannot 
heat ;  and  that  wherefrom  good  results  cannot  produce  evil,  while 
from  that  which  produces  evil  good  cannot  result.  And  the  proof 
that  these  two  principles  are  living  and  active  is  that  good  results 
from  the  action  of  this,  and  evil  from  the  action  of  that. 

"  So  Shapur  accepted  this  doctrine  from  him,  and  urged  his 
subjects  to  do  the  same.  And  this  thing  was  grievous  unto  them, 
and  the  wise  men  from  amongst  the  people  of  his  kingdom  united  in 
dissuading  him  from  this,  but  he  did  not  do  [what  they  demanded] . 
And  Mani  composed  books  wherein  he  affirmed  the  Two  Principles  ; 
and  of  his  writings  was  the  book  which  he  entitled  Kanzyu'l  Ihyd 
('  the  Treasure  of  Vivification/ )  *  wherein  he  describes  what  of 
salvation  wrought  by  the  Light  and  of  corruption  wrought  by 
the  Darkness  exists  in  the  soul,  and  refers  reprehensible  actions 
to  the  Darkness ;  and  a  book  which  he  named  Shdburqdn,  wherein 
he  describes  the  delivered  soul  and  that  which  is  mingled 
with  the  devils  and  with  defects,  and  makes  out  heaven  to  be 
a  flat  surface,  and  asserts  that  the  world  is  on  a  sloping  moun- 
tain on  which  the  high  heaven  revolves ;  and  a  book  which  he 
named  Kiidbu'l-Hudd  wat-Tadbir  ('the  Book  of  Guidance  and 
Administration'),  and  the  'Twelve  Gospels,'  whereof  he  named  each 
after  one  of  the  letters  of  the  alphabet,  and  described  Prayer,  and 
what  must  be  done  for  the  deliverance  of  the  soul ;  and  the  Sifru'l- 
Asrdr  ('  Book  of  Secrets'), 2  wherein  he  finds  fault  with  the  miracles 
of  the  prophets  ;  and  the  Sifni'l-Jabdbira  ('  Book  of  the  Giants  ')  ; 
besides  which  he  has  many  other  books  and  epistles. 

"  So  Shapur  continued  in  this  doctrine  for  some  ten  years.  Then 
the  Miibadh  (Fire-priest)  came  to  him  and  said,  '  This  man  hath 


1  See  Fliigel's  Mani,  n.  324,  Qtjaavpbe  ZUTJG. 

3  See  Flugel,  op.  cit.,  pp.  102-103,  where  the  contents  of  this  book  are 
briefly  stated  from  the  Fihrist.    It  contained  eighteen  chapters. 


THE  MANICHJEANS  157 

corrupted  thy  religion  ;  confront  me  with  him,  that  I  may  dispute 
with  him.'  So  he  confronted  them,  and  the  Mvibadh  bested  him  in 
argument,  and  Shapiir  returned  from  Dualism  to  the  Magian  religion, 
and  resolved  to  put  Mani  to  death,  but  he  fled  away  and  came  to  the 
lands  of  India,  where  he  abode  until  Shapiir  died. 

"Then  Shapur  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Hurmuz,  a  valiant 
man  ;  and  he  it  was  who  built  the  city  of  Ram- Hurmuz,  but  his  days 
were  not  prolonged.  He  reigned  one  year. 

"Then  reigned  Bahram  the  son  of  Hurmuz,  who  concerned  him- 
self [only]  with  his  minions  and  amusements.  And  Mani's  disciples 
wrote  to  him,  saying,  '  There  hath  succeeded  to  the  throne  a  King 
youn«  in  years,  greatly  preoccupied  [with  his  amusements].'  So  he 
returned  to  the  land  of  Persia,  and  his  doings  became  noised  abroad, 
and  his  place  [of  abode]  became  known.  Then  Bahram  summoned 
him  and  questioned  him  concerning  his  doctrine,  and  he  related  to 
him  his  circumstances.  Then  [Bahram]  confronted  him  with  the 
Mubadh,  who  disputed  with  him,  and  said,  '  Let  molten  lead  be 
poured  on  my  belly  and  on  thine,  and  whichever  of  us  shall  be 
unhurt  thereby,  he  will  be  in  the  right.'1  But  [Mani]  replied, '  This  is 
a  deed  of  the  Darkness.'  So  Bahram  ordered  him  to  be  imprisoned, 
and  said  to  him,  '  When  morning  comes  I  will  send  for  thee  and  will 
slay  thee  in  such  wise  as  none  hath  been  slain  before  thee.' 

"  So  all  that  night  Mani  was  being  flayed,  until  his  spirit  departed 
[from  his  body].  And  when  it  was  morning,  Bahram  sent  for  him, 
and  they  found  him  [already]  dead.  So  he  ordered  his  head  to  be 
cut  off,  and  his  body  to  be  stuffed  with  straw  ;  and  he  persecuted  his 
followers  and  slew  of  them  a  great  multitude.  And  Bahram  the 
son  of  Hurmuzd  reigned  three  years." 

The  account  of  Mani  given  in  the  Fihrist  is  much  fuller, 
but  as  it  is  accessible  to  all  who  read  German  in  Fliigel's 
translation,  only  a  few  important  points  will  here  be  mentioned. 
His  father's  name  is  given  as  Futtaq  (the  arabicised  form  of  a 
Persian  name,  probably  Pataka,  represented  by  Western  writers 
as  Ilcm'iaoe,  Patecius,  Phatecius,  and  Patricius),  and  he  was  a 

1  This  "  molten  brass  ordeal "  is  repeatedly  mentioned  both  in  the  Pahlawi 
and  Arabic  books.  Amongst  the  former,  see  Haug's  ed.  and  translation  of 
the  Arda  Virdf  Ndmak,  p.  144,  especially  the  passages  from  the  Dinkard 
cited  in  the  note  ;  and  also  the  Shikand  Gumdnik  Vtjdr  (ed.  West),  p.  xii. 
Amongst  the  latter,  see  al-Qazwini's  Athdru'l-Bildd,  p.  267.  The  test  is 
also  said  to  have  been  proposed  to  Manes  in  the  Persian  Tdrikh-i-Guzida 
(Cambridge  MS.  marked  Dd.  3.  23,  f.  450). 


158  THE  S AS  AN/ AN  PERIOD 

native  of  Hamadan,  but  migrated  thence  to  Babylonia 
(Badaraya  and  Bakusaya)  and  joined  himself  to  the  Mughtasila, 
a  sect  closely  akin  to  the  Mandaeans,  from  whom  Mani  pro- 
bably derived  his  hatred  both  of  the  Jewish  religion  and  also 
of  idolatry.  His  mother's  name  is  variously  given  as  Mar 
Maryam,  Utakhim  and  Mays,  and  it  is  at  least  possible  that 
she  was  of  the  race  of  the  Ashghanis,  or  Parthian  royal  family, 
which,  if  true,  would  afford  another  ground  for  the  mistrust 
entertained  towards  him  by  the  Sasanian  kings.  He  was  born, 
according  to  his  own  statement  in  the  book  called  Shaburqdn, 
cited  by  al-Biruni,  in  A.D.  215  or  216,  and  was  deformed  by 
a  limp  in  one  leg.  Before  his  birth  the  Angel  Tawm  made 
known  to  his  mother  his  high  mission  in  dreams,  but  he  only 
began  to  receive  revelations  at  the  age  of  twelve  (or  thirteen, 
A.D.  227-8,  according  to  al-Biruni),  and  not  till  he  reached  the 
age  of  twenty-four  was  he  commissioned  to  make  known  his 
doctrine.  His  public  announcement  of  his  claims  is  said  to 
have  been  solemnly  made  before  King  Shapur  on  the  day  of 
his  coronation,  March  20,  A.D.  242,  and  it  was  probably 
through  the  King's  brother  Piruz,  whom  he  had  converted  to 
his  doctrines,  that  he  succeeded  in  obtaining  admission  on  so 
great  an  occasion  of  state.  His  long  journeyings  in  India  and 
the  East  probably  followed  his  loss  of  the  King's  favour.  That 
his  ultimate  return  to  Persia  and  barbarous  execution  took 
place  during  the  short  reign  of  Bahrain  I  (A.D.  273-6),  is 
asserted  by  al-Biruni,  al-Ya'qubi,  and  Tabari. 

"  Manichaeanism,"  says  the  first  (Sachau's  translation,  p.  191), 
"increased  by  degrees  under  Ardashir,  his  son  Shapur,  and 
Hurmuzd  son  of  Shapur,  until  the  time  when  Bahrain  the  son  of 
Hurmuzd  ascended  the  throne.  He  gave  orders  to  search  for  Man1', 
and  when  he  had  found  him,  he  said  :  '  This  man  has  come  forward 
calling  people  to  destroy  the  world.  It  will  be  necessary  to  begin 
by  destroying  him,  before  anything  of  his  plans  should  be  realised.' 
It  is  well  known  that  he  killed  Mani,  stripped  off  his  skin,  filled  it 
with  grass,  and  hung  it  up  at  the  gate  of  Utnde-Shapur,  which  is  still 
known  as  the  Gate  of  Manes.  Hurmuzd  also  killed  a  "number  of  the 


THE  MANICHAEANS  159 

Manichasans.  ...  I  have  heard  the  Ispahbadh  Marzuban  the  son  of 
Rustam  say  that  Shapiir  banished  him  out  of  his  empire,  faithful  to 
the  Law  of  Zoroaster  which  demands  the  expulsion  of  pseudo- 
prophets  from  the  country.  He  imposed  on  him  the  obligation 
never  to  return.  So  Mani  went  off  to  India,  China,  and  Thibet,  and 
there  preached  his  gospel.  Afterwards  he  returned,  and  was  seized 
by  Bahram  and  put  to  death  for  having  broken  the  stipulation, 
whereby  he  had  forfeited  his  life." 

What,  now,  was  this  "  gospel "  which  so  aroused  the  enmity 
of  the  Zoroastrian  priesthood,  and  which  (to  speak  of  the  East 
only)  was  still  so  active  in  the  latter  part  of  the  eighth  century, 
that  the  'Abbasid  Caliph  al-Mahdf  appointed  a  special  inquisitor, 
called  Sahibu  (or  lArlfu]  z^-Zan^diqa^  to  detect  and  punish 
those  who,  under  the  outward  garb  of  Islam,  held  the  doctrines 
of  the  Manichxans  or  Zindiqs  ?  And  what  was  the  exact 
meaning  of  this  term  Zindiq,  which,  originally  used  to  denote 
the  Manichaeans,  was  gradually,  and  is  still,  applied  to  all 
atheists  and  heretics  in  Muhammadan  countries  ? 

Let  us  take  the  last  inquiry  first,  as  that  which  may  be  most 
briefly  answered.  The  ordinary  explanation  is  that  the  term 
Zandik  is  a  Persian  adjective  meaning  "  one  who 
Mt«minzgindiqhe  follows  the  Zand"  or  traditional  explanation  (see 
pp.  78-9  supra]  in  preference  to  the  Sacred  Text, 
and  that  the  Manichaeans  were  so  called  because  of  their  dis- 
position to  interpret  and  explain  the  scriptures  of  other 
religions  in  accordance  with  their  own  ideas,  by  a  process 
akin  to  the  yvwmg  of  the  gnostics  and  the  tawll  of  the  later 
Isma'ilfs.1  But  Professor  Eevan  has  proposed  a  much  more 
probable  explanation.  We  know  from  the  Fihrist  (Fliigel's 
Manly  p.  64)  and  al-Elrl.nl  (transl.  Sachau,  p.  190)  that 
while  the  term  Sammfr  ("Listener,"  "Auditor")  was  applied 
to  the  lower  grades  of  Manichaeans,  who  did  not  wish  to  take 
upon  them  all  the  obligations  concerning  poverty,  celibacy,  and 

1  The  term  Zandikih  occurs  in  the  Mainyo-i-Khard  (ed.  West,  1871, 
ch.  xxxvi,  p.  37),  and  is  explained  as  "  thinking  well  of  the  devils  "  (pp. 
22-23). 


160  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

mortification  imposed  by  the  religion,  the  "saints  and  ascetics" 
amongst  them,  who  were  commanded  "  to  prefer  poverty  to 
riches,  to  suppress  cupidity  and  lust,  to  abandon  the  world,  to 
be  abstinent  in  it,  continually  to  fast,  and  to  give  alms  as  much 
as  possible,"  were  called  Siddlq,  "  the  Faithful  "  (pi.  Siddlqiirf). 
This  word  is  Arabic,  but  the  original  Aramaic  form  was  probably 
Saddlqai,  which  in  Persian  became  Zandik,  the  replacement  of 
the  dd  by  nd  finding  its  parallel  in  the  Persian  shanbadh 
(modern  shanba)  for  Sabbath^  and  the  conversion  of  the 
Sanskrit  Siddhdnta  into  Sindhind.  According  to  this  view, 
Zandlk  (Arabicised  into  Zlndlq]  is  merely  the  Persianised 
form  of  the  Aramaic  name  applied  to  the  fully  initiated 
Manichaeans,  and,  primarily  applied  to  that  sect  exclusively, 
was  only  later  used  in  the  sense  of  "  heretic  "  in  general.  An 
interesting  parallel,  as  Professor  Bevan  points  out,  is  supplied 
by  the  derivation  of  the  German  Ketzer,  "  heretic,"  from 
KaOapoi,  "the  pure."  ' 

The  Manichaeans,  as  we  have  seen,  like  the  followers  of 
Marcion  and  Bardesanes,  were  reckoned  by  Muhammadan 
writers  amongst  the  "Dualists."  But  since  the 
DMa^cha:anshe  Zoroastrian  religion  is  also  essentially  dualistic, 
whence  arose  the  violent  antagonism  between  it 
and  the  Manichaean  doctrine  ?  The  answer  is  not  far  to 
seek.  In  the  former  the  Good  and  the  Evil  Creation,  the 
realm  of  Ahura  Mazda  and  that  of  Anra  Mainyush  (Ahriman), 
each  comprised  a  spiritual  and  a  material  part.  Not  only  the 
Amshaspands  and  Angels,  but  also  the  material  elements  and 
all  animals  and  plants  useful  to  man,  and  of  mankind  those  who 
held  "  the  Good  Religion,"  fought  on  the  side  of  Ahura  Mazda 
against  the  dlvs  and  drujes,  the  khrafstars,  or  noxious  animals, 
the  witches  and  warlocks,  the  misbelievers  and  heretics,  who 
constituted  the  hosts  of  Ahriman.  In  general  the  Zoroastrian 
religion,  for  all  its  elaborately  systematised  Spiritual  Hierarchies, 

1  Cf.  C.  Schmidt's  Hist,  et  doctrine  de  la  Secte  des  Cathares  ou  Albigeois 
(Paris,  1849). 


THE  MANICHJSANS  161. 

presents  itself  as  an  essentially  material  religion,  in  the  sense 
that  it  encouraged  its  followers  to  "  be  fruitful  and  multiply 
and  replenish  the  earth,"  and  to  "  sow  the  seed  and  reap  the 
harvest  with  enduring  toil."  *  According  to  the  Manichaean 
view,  on  the  other  hand,  the  admixture  of  the  Light  and  the 
Darkness  which  gave  rise  to  the  material  universe  was  essentially 
evil,  and  a  result  of  the  activity  of  the  Powers  of  Evil ;  it  was 
only  good  in  so  far  as  it  afforded  a  means  of  escape  and  return 
to  its  proper  sphere  to  that  portion  of  the  Light  ("Jesus 
patibilis  "  :  see  Spiegel,  Eran.  Alt.,  ii,  p.  226),  which  had  become 
entangled  in  the  darkness  ;  and  when  this  deliverance  was,  so 
far  as  possible,  effected,  the  angels  who  supported  the  heavens 
and  upheld  the  earth  would  relax  their  hold,  the  whole 
material  universe  would  collapse,  and  the  Final  Conflagration 
would  mark  the  Redemption  of  the  Light  and  its  final 
dissociation  from  the  irredeemable  and  indestructible  Darkness. 
Meanwhile,  by  the  "  Column  of  Praise  "  (consisting  of  the 
prayers,  doxologies  and  good  works  of  the  faithful  ascending 
up  to  Heaven,  and  visible  as  the  Milky  Way  2),  the  particles 
of  Light,  set  free  from  their  imprisonment  in  the  Darkness, 
ascend  upwards,  and  are  ferried  across  by  the  Sun  and  Moon  to 
the  "  Paradise  of  Light,"  which  is  their  proper  home.  All  that 
tends  to  the  prolongation  of  this  state  of  admixture  of  Light 
and  Darkness,  such  as  marriage  and  the  begetting  of  children, 
is  consequently  regarded  by  Manes  and  his  followers  as  evil 
and  reprehensible,  and  thus  we  see  what  King  Hurmuz  meant 
by  the  words,  "  This  man  has  come  forward  calling  people  to 
destroy  the  world."  Zoroastrianism  was  national,  militant, 
materialistic,  imperialist ;  Manichaeanism,  cosmopolitan,  quietist, 
ascetic,  unworldly ;  the  two  systems  stood  in  essential 
antagonism,  and,  for  all  their  external  resemblances  (fully 

1  Cf.  Darmesteter's  English  translation  of  the  Avesta,  in  S.  B,  E.t  vol.  i, 
p.  46,  and  n.  i  ad  calc.  on  Fargard  iv,  47. 

2  See  Fliigel's  Mdni,  p.  231  ;  Spiegel's  Eran.  Alterlhumskunde,  vol,  ii, 
p.  217. 

12 


162  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 

indicated  by  Spiegel  in  his  Eranhche  Alterihumskunde,  vol.  ii, 
pp.  195-232),  were  inevitably  hostile  and  radically  opposed. 
In  the  case  of  Judaism,  orthodox  Christianity  and  Islam,  the 
antagonism  was  equally  great,  and  if  the  Manichaeans  suffered 
less  at  the  hands  of  the  Jews  than  of  the  other  three  religions, 
it  was  the  power  rather  than  the  will  which  these  lacked, 
since,  as  we  have  seen,  Judaism  was  held  by  Manes  in 
particular  abhorrence. 

Into  the  details  of  the  Manichaean  doctrine — the  causes 
which  led  to  the  admixture  of  the  Darkness  and  the  Light ; 
their  theories  concerning  the  "King  of  the  Paradises  of  Light," 
the  Primal  Man,  the  Devil,  and  the  mechanism  of  the  material 
universe  as  a  means  for  liberating  the  Light  from  its  captivity  ; 
and  their  grotesque  beliefs  concerning  Adam  and  Eve,  Cain 
and  Abel,  Hakimatud-Dahr  ("  the  World-wise  ")  and  Ibnatu'l- 
Hlrs  ("the  Daughter  of  Desire"),  Rawfaryad,  Barfaryad,  and 
Shathil  (Seth),  and  the  like, — it  is  not  possible  to  enter  in  this 
place.  As  a  set-off  against  their  rejection  of  the  Hebrew 
prophets  the  Manichaeans  recognised  not  only  Zoroaster  and 
Buddha  as  divine  messengers,  but  also  Christ,  though  here  they 
distinguished  between  the  True  Christ,  who  was,  in  their  view, 
an  Apparition  from  the  World  of  Light  clad  in  a  merely  phan- 
tasmal body,  and  His  counterpart  and  antagonist,  "  the  Son  of 
the  Widow  "  who  was  crucified.  It  is  a  curious  thing  that 
this  belief  of  the  Manichaeans  was  adopted  by  Muhammad  : 
in  the  Qur'an  (sura  iv,  v.  156)  it  is  written  : — 

"And  for  their  saying,  '  Verily  we  slew  the  Messiah,  Jesus  the  Son  oj 
Mary,  the  Apostle  of  God  ; '  but  they  did  not  slay  Him  or  crucify  Him, 
but  the  matter  was  made  doubtful  to  them  [or,  a  similitude  was  made 
for  them].  And  verily  those  who  differ  about  Him  are  in  doubt  con- 
cerning Him;  they  have  no  knowledge  concerning  Him,  but  only  follow 
an  opinion.  They  did  not  kill  Him,  for  sure  !  but  God  raised  Him  up 
unto  Himself;  for  God  is  mighty  and  wise  1 " 

As  regards  the  history  of  the  Manichaeans  in  the  East,  we 
have  already  mentioned  that  during  the  Caliphate  of  al-Mahdi 


THE  MANICHAEANS  163 

(A.D.  775-785),  the  father  of  Harunu  'r-Rashid, 

Progress  of         \  .         _ 

Manichzanism    they  were  so  numerous  that  a  special  Inquisitor 

in  the  East.  .  l 

was  appointed  to  detect  and  destroy  them.  The 
author  of  the  Fihrlst  (A.D.  988)  knew  300  professed  Mani- 
chasans  at  Baghdad  alone,  and  al-Birum  (A.D.  1000)  was 
familiar  with  their  books,  especially  the  Shdburqdn  (the  one 
book  composed  by  Manes  in  Persian,  i.e.  Pahlawi ;  for  the  other 
six  of  his  principal  writings  were  in  Syriac)  which  he  cites  in 
several  places,  including  the  opening  words  (Sachau's  transla- 
tion, p.  190),  which  run  thus  : — 

"  Wisdom  and  deeds  have  always  jrom  time  to  time  been  brought 

to  mankind  by  the  messengers  of  God.     So  in  one  age  they  have  been 

Citation  from     brought  by  the  messenger  of  God  called  Buddha  to  India, 

one  of  the  books  jn  another  by  Zoroaster  to  Persia,  in  another  by  Jesus  to 

the  West.     Thereafter  this  revelation  has  come  do-van,  this 

prophecy  in  this  last  age,  through  me,  Mdni,  the  Messenger  of  the 

God  of  Truth  to  Babylonia." 

The  migrations  of  the  Manichaeans  are  thus  described  in  the 
Fihrist : — 

"  The  Manichaeans  were  the  first  religious  community  to  enter 
the  lands  of  Transoxiana  beside  the  Shamanists.  The  reason  of 
this  was  that  when  the  Kisra  (Bahrain)  slew  Mani 
and  crucified  him>  and  forbade  the  people  of  his 
Kingdom  to  dispute  about  religion,  he  took  to  killing 
the  followers  of  Mani  wherever  he  found  them,  wherefore  they 
continued  to  flee  before  him  until  they  crossed  the  river  of  Balkh 
and  entered  the  dominions  of  the  Khaqan  (or  Khan),  with  whom 
they  abode.  Now  Khaqan  (or  Khan)  in  their  tongue  is  a  title 
conferred  by  them  on  the  King  of  the  Turks.  So  the  Manichaeans 
settled  in  Transoxiaua  until  such  time  as  the  power  of  the  Persians 
was  broken  and  that  of  the  Arabs  waxed  strong,  whereupon  they 
returned  to  these  lands  ('Iraq,  or  Babylonia),  especially  during  the 
break  up  of  the  Persian  Empire  and  the  days  of  the  Umayyad  kings. 
Khalid  b.  'Abdu'llah  al-Qasri  •  took  them  under  his  protection,  but 


1  A  powerful  protector  of  the  Manichaeans,  put  to  death  by  the  Caliph 
al-Walid  in  A.D.  743.    See  Flugel's  Mdni,  pp.  320-322. 


164  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

the  leadership  [of  the  sect]  was  not  conferred  save  in  Babylonia, 
in  these  lands,  after  which  the  leader  would  depart  into  whatever 
land  would  afford  him  most  security.  Their  last  migration  took 
place  in  the  days  of  al-Muqtadir  (A.D.  908-932),  when  they  retired 
to  Khurasan  for  fear  of  their  lives,  while  such  as  remained  of  them 
concealed  their  religion,  and  wandered  through  these  regions. 
About  five  hundred  men  of  them  collected  at  Samarqand,  and  their 
doctrines  became  known.  The  governor  of  Khurasan  would  have 
slain  them,  but  the  King  of  China  (by  whom  I  suspect  the  ruler  of 
the  Taghazghaz  to  be  meant)  sent  unto  him  saying,  '  There  are  in 
my  domains  double  the  number  of  Muhammadans  that  there  are  in 
thine  of  my  co-religionists,'  and  swearing  to  him  that  should  he  kill 
one  of  the  latter,  he  would  slay  the  whole  of  the  former  to  avenge 
him,  and  would  destroy  the  mosques,  and  would  establish  an 
inquisition  against  the  Muhammadans  in  the  rest  of  his  dominions 
and  slay  them.  So  the  Governor  of  Khurasan  let  them  alone,  only 
taking  from  them  the  jizya  (poll-tax  on  non-Muslims).  So  they 
diminished  in  numbers  in  the  lands  of  Islam  ;  but  in  the  City  of 
Peace  (Baghdad)  I  used  to  know  some  three  hundred  of  them  in 
the  days  of  Mu'izzu'd-Dawla  (A.D.  946-967).  But  in  these  our  days 
there  are  not  five  of  them  left  at  the  capital.  And  these  people  are 
named  Ajari,  and  they  reside  in  the  suburbs  of  Samarqand,  Sughd, 
and  especially  Nuwikath." 

Of  those  who,  while  outwardly  professing  Islam,  were  really 
Manichaeans,  the  author  of  the  Fihrlst  gives  a  long  list,  which 

includes  al-Ja'd  b.  Dirham,  who  was  put  to  death 
.  •£££"  by  the  Umayyad  Caliph  Hisham  (A.D.  724-743)  J 

the  poet  Bashshar  b.  Burd,  put  to  death  in 
A.D.  784  ;  nearly  all  the  Barmecides,  except  Muhammad  b. 
Khalid  b.  Barmak  ;  the  Caliph  al-Ma'mun  (A.D.  813-833), 
but  this  is  not  credited  by  the  author  ;  Muhammad  ibnu'z- 
Zayyat,  the  Wazir  of  al-Mu'tasim,  put  to  death  in  A.D.  847  ; 
and  others. 

The    Manichaeans    were    divided     into    five    grades — the 

Mttallimun    or    Teachers,   called    "  the    Sons   of 

Duties  imposed     _,        ,  „  ,  _  .  .... 

on  the  Mani-      1  cndcrness     ;  the  Mushammasun  or  those  illumi- 
nated by  the  Sun,1  called  "  the  Sons  of  Know- 
ledge ";  the  ^isshun  or  priests,  called  "the  Sons  of  Under- 
1  See  Flugel's  Mdni,  pp.  294-299.    The  meaning  is  uncertain. 


THE  MANICH^EANS  165 

standing  "  ;  the  Siddiqun  or  faithful,  called  "  the  Sons  of  the 
Unseen  "  ;  and  the  Sammd'un  or  hearers,  called  "  the  Sons  of 
Intelligence."  They  were  commanded  to  perform  the  four  or 
the  seven  prayers,  and  to  abandon  idol-worship,  falsehood, 
covetousness,  murder,  fornication,  theft,  the  teaching  and 
study  of  all  arts  of  deception  and  magic,  hypocrisy  in  religion 
and  lukewarmness  in  daily  life.  To  these  ten  commandments 
were  added  :  belief  in  the  four  Supreme  Essences  :  to  wit,  God 
("  the  King  of  the  Paradises  of  Light "),  His  Light,  His  Power, 
and  His  Wisdom  ;  fasting  for  seven  days  in  each  month  ;  and 
the  acceptance  of  "  the  three  seals,"  called  by  St.  Augustine 
and  other  Christian  writers  the  signacula  oris,  manuum  et  sinus, 
typifying  the  renunciation  of  evil  words,  evil  deeds,  and  evil 
thoughts,  and  corresponding  to  the  hukht,  huvarsht,  and 
humat  (good  words,  good  deeds,  and  good  thoughts)  of  the 
Zoroastrian  religion.  Details  of  the  fasts  and  prayers,  and 
some  of  the  formulas  used  in  the  latter,  are  also  given  in  the 
Fihristy  from  which  we  also  learn  something  of  the  schisms  which 
arose  after  Mani's  time  as  to  the  Spiritual  Supremacy,  the  chief 
divisions  being  the  Mihriyya  and  the  Miqlasiyya.  The  seven 
books  of  Man!  (of  which,  as  has  been  already  said,  six  were  in 
Syriac  and  one — the  Shaburqan — in  Pahlawi)  were  written  in 
a  peculiar  script  invented  by  their  author  and 
invented  by  reproduced  (in  a  form  greatly  corrupted  and 
disfigured  in  the  existing  MSS.)  by  the  Fihrist. 
To  this  script,  and  to  the  art  of  writing  in  general,  the 
Manichaeans  (like  the  modern  Babis,  who,  as  is  well  known, 
have  also  invented  a  script  peculiar  to  themselves  called 
khatt-i-badl^  "the  New  Writing")  would  appear  to  have 
devoted  much  attention,  for  al-Jahidh  (ninth  century)  cites 
Ibrahim  as-Sindi  as  saying  that  "  it  would  be  well  if  they  were 
to  spend  less  on  the  whitest,  finest  paper  and  the 
blackest  ink,  and  on  the  training  of  calligraphists." 
From  this,  as  Professor  Bevan  conjectures,  arose 
the  idea  of  Mani  as  a  skilful  painter  which  is  prevalent  in 


166  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

\  Persia,  where  it  is  generally  believed  that  he  produced  a  picture- 
1  book  called  the  Arzhan^ or  Arianp*  to  which  he  appealed  (as 
Muhammad  appealed  to  the  £>ur'dn)  as  a  proof  of  his  super- 
natural power  and  divine  mission.1 

3.  N&shlrwdn  and  Mazdak. 

"I  was  born,"  the  Prophet  Muhammad  is  reported  to  have 
said,  "in  the  reign  of  the  Just  King,"  meaning  thereby 
Khusraw  Anushak-rubdn  ("  of  Immortal  Spirit "), 
^jifshirwdn!  wno  ls  stiM  spoken  of  by  the  Persians  as  "  Nushir- 
wan the  Just "  and  regarded  as  the  perfect  type  of 
kingly  virtue.  We  have  already  seen  that  this  verdict  cannot 
be  accepted  without  reserve,  and  that  Nushirwan's  vigorous 
measures  against  heretics  rather  than  his  justice  (in  our  sense 
of  the  term)  won  him  the  applause  and  approval  of  the  Magian 
priests  by  whose  hands  the  national  chronicles  were  shaped  ; 
just  as  the  slur  which  rests  on  the  name  of  the  first  Yazdigird 
(called  Baza-gar,  "  the  Sinner  ")  is  to  be  ascribed  rather  to 
his  tolerance  of  other  religions  and  his  indifference  to  the 
Zoroastrian  clergy  than  to  any  special  wickedness  of  life. 
Yet  Nushirwan,  though  severe  on  heretics  whose  activity 
threatened  the  welfare  of  the  State,  was  by  no  means  a  fanatic, 
but  on  the  contrary  interested  himself  greatly  in  foreign 
religions  and  philosophies.  In  this  respect  he  reminds  us  of 
the  Caliph  at  Ma'mun  and  the  Emperor  Akbar,  both  of  whom 
took  the  same  delight  in  religious  and  philosophical  controversies 
and  speculations.  Noldeke  (Gesch  d.  Sasaniden,  p.  150,  n.  3 
ad  calc.),  who  is  by  no  means  disposed  to  look  favourably  on 
the  Persians,  gives,  on  the  whole,  a  very  favourable  summary 
of  his  character,  which  he  concludes  in  the  following  words  : 
"  On  the  whole  Khusraw  (Nushirwan)  is  certainly  one  of  the 
greatest  and  best  kings  whom  the  Persians  ever  possessed, 
which,  however,  did  not  prevent  him  from  being  capable  of 

1  Cf.  Shdhndma,  ed.  Macan,  vol.  iii,  pp.  1453-1454. 


MAZDAK  167 

reckless  cruelty,  nor  from  having  little  more  regard  for  the 
truth  than  the  Persians,  even  the  best,  are  wont  to  have." 
His  suppression  of  the  Mazdakites,  his  successful  campaigns 
against  the  "  Romans "  (Byzantines),  his  wise  laws,  his  care 
for  the  national  defences,  and  the  prosperity  enjoyed  by  the 
Persian  Empire  during  his  reign  (A.D.  531-578)  all  conduced 
to  the  high  reputation  which  he  enjoys  in  the  East  as  an 

ideal  monarch  ;  while  his  reception  of  the  seven 

Phii?srphte0rslstat  Greek    philosophers,    expelled    from    their   native 

Ndshfrwdnf     kmd  ty  tne  intolerance  of  the  Emperor  Justinian, 

and  his  insertion  of  a  special  clause  in  their  favour 
(whereby  they  were  guaranteed  toleration  and  freedom  from 
interference  on   their    return    thither)    in  a  treaty   which   he 
concluded  with  the   Byzantines  at  the  close  of  a  successful 
war,  as  well  as  his  love  of  knowledge,  exemplified  not  only 
by  his  patronage  of  learned  men,  but  by  the  establishment  ofj 
a  gre^t  jnedical  school  at  Junde-Shap_ur,  and  by  the  numerous 
translations  from  Qreek  and  Sanskrit  into  Pahlawi_gx_ecuted  by  I 
his  orders,  caused  it  to  be  believed,  even  in  the  West,  "  that  a| 
disciple  of  Plato  was  seated  on  the  Persian  throne."  * 

The  importance  of  the  visit  to  the  Persian   Court  of  the 
Neo-Platonist    philosophers   mentioned    above    has,    I    think, 

hardly  been  sufficiently  emphasised.  How  much 
'"xe^piatonist0'  the  later  mysticism  of  the  Persians,  the  doctrine 
idaet1hrsepocrhsia  of  the  Sufis,  which  will  be  fully  discussed  in  a 

later  chapter,  owes  to  Neo-Platonism,  is  beginning 
to  be  recognised,  and  has  been  admirably  illustrated  by  my 
friend  and  former  pupil  Mr.  R.  A.  Nicholson,  late  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  in  his  Selected  Poems  from  the 
Dlv&n  of  Shams-i-Tabriz  (Cambridge,'  1898)  ;  nor,  if 
Darmesteter's  views  be  correct,  did  Zoroastrianism  disdain 
to  draw  materials  from  the  same  source.  The  great  historical 
introduction  of  Greek  philosophical  and  scientific  ideas  into 

1  See  the  excellent  account  of  Nushirwan  given  by  Gibbon  (Decline 
and  Fall,  ed.  1813,  vol.  vii,  pp.  298-307). 


168  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

the  East  took  place,  as  is  well  known,  during  the  early 
'Abbasid  period,  especially  during  the  reign  of  Harunu'r- 
Rashfd's  son  al-Ma'mun  (A.D.  813-833),  but  it  is  exceedingly 
probable  (though,  owing  to  the  loss  of  the  great  bulk  of 
Pahlawi  literature,  especially  the  non-religious  portion,  it 
cannot  be  proved)  that  already  in  the  sixth  century,  during 
the  reign  of  Nushirwan,  this  importation  had  begun,  and  that 
the  beginnings  of  the  Sufi  doctrines,  as  of  so  many  others,  may 
in  reality  go  back  beyond  the  Muhammadan  to  the  Sasanian 
times.  As  regards  the  Christians,  Nushirwan's  contempt  for 
their  pacific  doctrines  and  vexation  at  the  rebellious  behaviour 
of  his  son  Anusha-zadh  (see  p.  136  supra]  did  not  prevent  him 
from  according  certain  privileges  to  the  dangerous  and  often 
disloyal  Monophysites,1  or  from  accepting  in  one  of  his  treaties 
with  the  Byzantine  Emperor  certain  stipulations  in  favour  of 
the  Catholics  ; 2  nay,  it  was  even  asserted  by  Euagrius  and 
Sebeos  J  that  he  was  privately  baptized  before  his  death,  which 
statement,  though  certainly  false,  shows  that  he  was  generally 
regarded  as  favourably  disposed  towards  the  Christians,  who, 
as  Noldeke  remarks,  gave  a  touching  proof  of  their  gratitude 
for  his  favours  a  century  later  when  they  would  not  suffer  the 
remains  of  his  unfortunate  descendant  Yazdigird  III,  the  last 
ruler  of  the  House  of  Sasan,  to  lie  unburied.  Such  toleration, 
however,  was  always  subject  to  considerations  of  the  safety  of 
the  State  and  the  order  of  social  life,  both  of  which  were 
threatened  by  the  doctrines  of  the  communist  Mazdak,  of 
whom  we  shall  now  speak. 

The  evidence  which  has  come  down  to  us  concerning  this 
remarkable  man  has  been  carefully  collected  by  Noldeke  3  in 


1  See  Noldeke,  Gesch,  d.  Sasaniden,  p.  162  ad  calc. 

a  Gibbon,  op.  cit.,  p.  305,  n.  52  ad  calc. 

s  See  also  a  more  popular  account  by  the  same  scholar  in  the  Deutsche 
Rundschau  for  February,  1879,  pp.  284  et  seqq. 

The  most  ancient  and  authentic  notices  of,  or  references  to,  Mazdak 
are  as  follows  : — 


MAZDAK  169 

the  fourth  Excursus  (Ueber  Mazdaf^  und  die  Mazdafyen^  pp. 
455-467)  appended  to  his  admirable  History  of  the  Sasdnians, 

which  we  have  already  had  occasion  to  cite  so  fre- 
communiat  quently.  It  must  naturally  be  borne  in  mind  that 

this  rests  entirely  on  the  statements  of  persons 
(whether  Zoroastrian  or  Christian)  who  were  bitterly  opposed 
to  his  teaching,  and  that  if  the  case  for  the  defence  had  been 
preserved  we  might  find  favourable  features,  or  at  least  extenu- 

(i)  In  the  Pahlawi  translation  of  the  Vendidad,  Fargard  iv,  v.  49,  the 
words  of  the  Avesta  text,  "  it  is  this  man  who  can  strive  against  the  ungodly 

Sources  of       Ashemaogha"  (i.e.,  "fiend"  or  "heretic")  "who  does  not 
information:     eat,"  are  illustrated  by  the  gloss  "like  Mazdak,  son  of 

i.  Pahlawi.  Bamd£dh  . »  while  other  references  to  the  "  accursed 
Mazdak  "  occur  in  the  Bahman  Yasht,  which,  however,  is  one  of  the  latest 
products  of  Pahlawi  literature,  and  is,  in  its  extant  form,  referred  by  West 
to  about  the  twelfth  century  of  our  era.  There  also  existed  a  Pahlawi 
tfazdak-ndmqk,  or  "  Boofc  oj  JtffV^V  which  was  one  of  the  numerous 
Pahlawi  workTTranslaled  into  Arabic  by  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa',  but  this,  unfor- 
tunately, jgjost,  though  its  contents  are  to  some  extent  preserved  by  other 
Arabic  wriiersT 

(ii)  In  Greek  references  to  Mazdak  occur  in  the  works  of 
'          Procopius,  Theophanes,  and  John  Malalas. 

(iii)  In  Syriac,  in  the  Chronicle  of  Joshua  the  Stylite  (Wright's  ed.  and 

transl.,  §  xx),  who  speaks  of  King  Kawad's  "evil  conduct" 

in  re-establishing  "  the  abominable  sect  of  the  Magi  which 

is  called  that  of  the  Zaradushtakan,  which  teaches  that  women  should  be 

in  common.  .  .  ." 

(iv)  In  Arabic,  accounts  of  Mazdak  are  given  by  al-Ya'qubi  (c.  A.H.  260 , 
ed.  Houtsma,  vol.  i,  p.  186),  who  mentions  that  he  and  his  master  Zaratusht 
Khurragan  were  put  to  death  by  Anushirwan  ;  Ibn  Qittayba 
(t  A.H.  270-276;  Kitdbu'l-Ma'drif,  ed.  Wustenfeld,  1850, 
p.  328) ;  Dinawari  (f  A.H.  282-290 ;  ed.  Guirgass,  p.  69) ;  Tabari  (fA.H.  310  ; 
ed.  de  Goeje,  Series  I,  vol.  ii,  pp.  885-886  =  Noldeke's  transl.,  pp. 
140-144  ;  pp.  893-894  =  Noldeke,  pp.  154-155) ;  Hamza  of  Isfahan  (early 
fourth  century  of  Hijra)  ;  Eutychius  (f  A.H.  328)  ;  Mas'udi  (f  A.H.  346  ; 
Muruju'  dh-Dhahab,  ed.  B.  de  Meynard,  vol.  ii,  pp.  195-196)  ;  al-Biruni 
(t  A.H.  440  ;  Sachau's  translation, p.  192)  ;  Shahristdni  (f  A.H.  548  ;  Kitdbu'l- 
milal,  ed.  Cureton,  pp.  192-194  =  Haarbrucker's  transl.,  pp.  291-293) ; 
Ibnu-'l-Athir  (f  A.H.  630)  ;  Abu'l-Fidd  (f  A.H.  732  ;  ed.  Fleischer,  pp.  88-91), 
and  other  historians. 

(v)  In  Persian,  the  narratives  in  the  Shdhndma  of  Firdawsi  (ed.  Macan, 
vol.  iii,  pp.  1611-1616),  and  the  Siydsal-ndma  of  the  Nidhdmu'l-Mulk  (ed, 
Schefer,  pp.  166-181)  deserve  especial  mention. 


170  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

ating  circumstances,  of  which  we  now  know  nothing.  What, 
for  example,  to  take  an  analogous  case  from  modern  times, 
would  be  our  judgment  of  the  Babis  if  we  depended  solely  on 
the  highly-coloured  and  malicious  presentations  of  their 
doctrines  and  practices  contained  in  such  official  chronicles  as 
the  Ndsifyu  lt-  Tawarlfy  of  the  court-historian  Lisanul-Mulf^ 
or  of  the  talented  Riza-quli  Khan's  supplement  to  the 
Rawzatifs-Safd^or  even  of  presumably  unprejudiced  Europeans 
who  were  dependent  for  their  information  on  the  accouuts 
current  in  court  circles  ?  In  this  connection  it  is  worthy  of 
remark  that  the  charges  of  communism  and  antinomianism, 
especially  in  what  concerns  the  relation  of  the  sexes,  were  those 
most  frequently  brought  alike  against  the  Mazdakites  of  the 
sixth  and  the  Babis  of  the  nineteenth  century  by  their 
opponents  ;  and  since  we  now  know  that  the  alleged  com- 
munism of  the  early  Babis,  so  far  as  it  existed  at  all,  was  merely 
incidental,  as  in  the  similar  case  of  the  early  Christians,  and 
cannot  be  regarded  as  in  any  sense  a  characteristic  of  their 
doctrines,  we  cannot  avoid  a  suspicion  that  the  same  thing 
holds  true  in  some  degree  of  Mazdak  and  his  followers. 

Whether  Mazdak  himself  originated  the  doctrines  associated 

with   his  name  is  doubtful,  a  certain  Zaradusht  the  son    of 

Khurragan,  of  Fasa  in  the  province  of  Fars,  being 

Doctrines  of     mentioned    in  some  of  the  sources  as  their  real 

Mazdak. 

author.  Of  the  theoretical  basis  of  this  doctrine 
we  know  much  less  than  of  its  practical  outcome,  but  Noldeke 
well  remarks  that  "  what  sharply  distinguishes  it  from  modern 
Communism  and  Socialism  (so  far  as  these  show  themselves, 
not  in  the  dreams  of  individuals,  but  in  actual  parties),  is  its 
religious  character."  All  evils,  in  Mazdak's  view,  were  to  be 
attributed  to  the  demons  of  Envy,  Wrath,  and  Greed,  who  had 
destroyed  the  equality  of  mankind  decreed  and  desired  by  God, 
which  equality  it  was  his  aim  to  restore.  The  ascetic  element 
which  has  been  already  noticed  (p.  161  supra]  as  one  of  the 
features  of  Manichaeanism  to  which  the  Zoroastrians  so 


MAZDAK  171 

strongly  objected  also  appears  in  the  religion  of  Mazdak  in 
the  prohibition  of  shedding  blood  and  eating  meat.  Indeed,  as 
we  have  already  seen  (p.  169  n.  I  ad  calc.\  to  the  Zoroas- 
trian  theologians  Mazdak  was  par  excellence  "  the  ungodly 
Ashemaogha  who  does  not  eat." 

•  For  political  reasons,  of  which,  according  to  Noldeke's  view, 
the  chief  was  a  desire  to  curb  the  excessive  power  of  the  priests 

and  nobles,  King  Kawadh  (or  Qubad)  favoured  the 
SeVazdaklt«f  new  Doctrine  >  an  action  which  led  to  his  temporary 

deposition  in  favour  of  his  brother  Jamasp.  This 
untoward  event  probably  produced  a  considerable  alteration  in 
his  feelings  towards  the  new  sect,  and  the  balance  of  testimony 

places  in  the  last  years  of  his  reign  that  wholesale 

Massacre  of  the  '  .    .  .  .  . 

Mazdak-ites  (A.D.  slaughter  of  the  Mazdakites  with  which,  in  the 
popular  legend,  Khusraw  the  First  is  credited,  and 
by  which  he  is  said  to  have  earned  his  title  of  Nushfrwan 
(Anushafcruban,  "Of  Immortal  Spirit").  According  to  the 
current  account  (given  in  its  fullest  form  in  the  SiyAsat-nAma  of 
the  Nidhamu'1-Mulk  (ed.  Schefer,  pp.  166-181 ;  transl.  pp.  245- 
266),  Prince  Nushirwan,  after  exposing  the  evil  designs  and 
juggler's  tricks  of  Mazdak  to  his  father  King  Kawadh,  deceived 
the  heresiarch  by  a  feigned  submission,  and  fixed  a  day  when,  in 
presence  of  all  the  Mazdakites,  he  would  make  formal  and 
public  profession  of  the  new  doctrine.  Invitations  were  issued 
to  the  Mazdakites  to  a  great  banquet  which  the  prince  would 
provide  in  one  of  the  royal  gardens  ;  but  as  each  group  entered 
the  garden  they  were  seized  by  soldiers  who  lay  in  wait  for 
them,  slain,  and  buried  head  downwards  in  the  earth  with  their 
feet  protruding.  When  all  had  been  thus  disposed  of,  N  ushirwan 
invited  Mazdak,  whom  he  had  himself  received  in  private 
audience,  to  take  a  walk  with  him  through  the  garden  before 
the  banquet,  and  to  inspect  the  produce  thereof.  "  On  entering 
the  garden,  "  Behold,"  said  the  prince,  pointing  to  the  upturned 
feet  of  the  dead  heretics,  "  the  crop  which  your  evil  doctrines 
have  brought  forth  !  "  Therewith  he  made  a  sign,  and  Mazdak 


172  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

was  at  once  seized,  bound  and  buried  alive  head  downwards  in 

the  midst  of  a  large  mound  of  earth  specially  prepared  for  him 

in  the  middle  of  the  garden.     A    contemporary 

contemporary    account     of    the    massacre    by    an     eyewitness. 

testimony.  *  ' 

Timotheus  the  Persian,  has  been  preserved  to  us 
by  Theophanes  and  John  Malalas.  The  presence  at  this 
horrible  scene  of  the  Christian  bishop  Bazanes,  who  was  also 
the  King's  physician,  finds  a  curious  parallel  in  recent  times,  for 
Dr.  Polak,  court-physician  to  the  late  Nasiru'd-Dm  Shah,  was 
present  at  the  cruel  execution  of  the  beautiful  Babi  heroine 
Qurratu'l-'Ayn  in  1852. 

However  great  the  number  of  Mazdakites  who  perished  in 
this  massacre  (which   took   place  at   the  end  of  A.D.  528,  or 

the  beginning  of  520)  may  have  been,  the  sect 

Subsequent    his-  . 

tory  of  the      can  hardly  have  been  exterminated  in  a  day.  and 

Mazdakites.  ' 

there  are  reasons  for  believing  that  a  fresh  perse- 
cution took  place  soon  after  Nushirwan's  accession  to  the 
throne  (A.D.  531).  After  that,  even,  the  sect,though  no  longer 
manifest,  propably  continued  to  exist  in  secret ;  nor  is  it 
unlikely  that,  as  is  suggested  by  some  Muhammadan  writers, 
its  doctrines,  like  those  of  the  Manichaeans,  passed  over  into 
Muhammadan  times,  and  were  reproduced  more  or  less  faith- 
fully by  some  of  those  strange  antinomian  sects  of  later  days 
which  will  demand  our  attention  in  future  chapters.  This 
view  is  most  strongly  advanced  by  the  celebrated  Nizamu'l- 
Mulk,  who,  in  his  Treatise  on  Government  [Siydsat-nAma] 
endeavours  at  great  length  to  show  that  the  Isma'ilis  and 
Assassins  towards  whom  he  entertained  so  violent  an  antipathy 
(amply  justified  in  the  event  by  his  assassination  at  their  hands 
on  October  14,  1092)  were  the  direct  descendants  of  the 
Mazdakites. 


4.   The  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Home  of  Sas&n. 
In  the  long  and  glorious  reign  of  Nushlrwan  (A.D.  531-578), 


FALL   OF  THE  HOUSE   OF  SAsAN      173 

no  year,  perhaps,  was  so  memorable,  or  so  fraught  with  conse- 
quences of  deep  and  unsuspected  importance,  as  the  forty-second 
(A.D.  572-3),  called  by  the  Arabs  "  the  Year  of  the 

"TEteYhant"thc  ElePnant-"  In  tms  yearj  on  tne  one  hand,  culmi- 
nated a  long  series  of  events  which  led  to  the  annexa- 
tion by  Persia  of  the  rich  and  ancient  kingdom  of  Yaman,  an 
acquisition  which  might  well  arouse  the  enthusiasm  and  awaken 
the  plaudits  of  the  Persian  imperialists  of  that  epoch  ;  while  in 
it,  on  the  other  hand,  was  born  in  distant  Mecca  one  whose 
teaching  was  destined  to  overthrow  the  House  of  Sasan  and 
the  religion  of  Zoroaster,  the  Prophet  Muhammad.  On  the 
night  of  his  birth,  according  to  the  legends  so  dear  to  pious 
Muslims,  the  Palace  of  the  Persian  King  was  shaken  by  an 
earthquake,  so  that  fourteen  of  its  battlements  fell 
rrnSram^o  to  tne  ground  ;  the  Sacred  Fire,  which  had  burned 
thEmpire!''n  continuously  for  a  thousand  years,  was  extin- 
guished ;  and  the  Lake  of  Sawa  suddenly  dried 
up  ;  while  the  chief  priest  of  the  Zoroastrians  saw  in  a  dream 
the  West  of  Persia  overrun  by  Arabian  camels  and  horses  from 
across  the  Tigris.  At  these  portents  Nushirwan  was  greatly 
troubled,  nor  was  his  trouble  dispelled  by  the  oracular  answer 
brought  back  by  his  messenger  'Abdu'l-Masih,  a  Christian 
Arab  of  the  tribe  of  Ghassan,  from  his  uncle,  the  aged  Satih, 
who  dwelt  on  the  borders  of  the  Syrian  desert.  This  answer, 
conveyed  in  the  rhyming  rajaz  regarded  by  the  Arabian  sooth- 
sayers (kahana)  as  the  appropriate  vehicle  of  their  oracles, 
was  couched  in  the  following  strain  : — 

"On  a  camel  '  Abdu'l-Maslh        hastens  toward  Satih,  who  to  the 

verge  of  the  Tomb       is  already  come.          Thee  hither  doth  bring      the 

command  of  the  Sdsdnian  King        because   the  Palace 

°In^of  Sa$er~  hath  leaked,       and  the  Fire  is  slaked,       and  the  Chief 

Priest  in  his  dream  hath  seen       camels  fierce  and  lean, 

and  horse-troops    by  them  led      over  the  Tigris  bed       through  the 

border  marches  spread. 

"  0  'Abdu'l-Masih  I    When  reading  shall  abound,       and  (he  Man  oj 


174  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 

the  Staff1  be  found  and  the  hosts  shall  seethe  in  the  Vale  of  Samdwa,* 
and  dried  up  shall  be  the  Lake  of  Sdwa,  and  the  Holy  Fire  of  Persia 
shall  fail,  no  more  for  Satih  shall  Syria  avail  !  Yet  to  the  number 
of  the  turrets 3  your  kings  and  queens  shall  reign,  and  their  empire 
retain,  though  that  which  is  to  come  cometh  amain  I " 

These  tales  of  portent  and  presage  must,  however,  be  regarded 
rather  as  pious  after-thoughts  than  as  historical  facts.  The 
birth  of  the  Arabian  Prophet,  like  many  another  momentous 
event,  was  announced,  we  may  be  sure,  by  no  such  blare  of 
celestial  trumpets,  and  did  not  for  a  moment  occupy  the 
attention  even  of  the  men  of  Mecca,  for  whom  the  "  Year  of 
the  Elephant "  afforded  ample  food  for  thought  and  anxiety. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  sixth  century  the  political  position 
of  the  Arabs  was  as  follows.  In  the  west  the  kingdom  of 
Ghassan  and  in  the  east  the  kingdom  of  Hira  acknow- 
ledged more  or  less  the  suzerainty  of  Byzan- 
Pt°onsofrtehe"  tium  and  persia  respectively.  The  bulk  of  the 
rixufcwitwy.  Arabs  of  Central  Arabia,  secure  in  their  deserts 
and  broken  up  into  numerous  more  or  less  hostile 
tribes,  fought  and  sang  and  robbed  and  raided  much  as  do  the 
Bedouin  of  to-day,  with  little  regard  for  the  neighbouring  states. 
In  the  south  the  rich  and  ancient  kingdom  of  Yaman  enjoyed, 
under  its  own  Tubba's  or  kings,  a  larger  measure  of  wealth, 
prosperity,  and  civilisation.  The  infamous  usurper  Lakhi'a, 
called  Dhu  Shandtir,  met  his  well-merited  doom  at  the  hands 
of  the  young  prince  Dhu  Nuwas,  who — for  since  the  days  of 

1  I.e.,  the  Caliph  'Umar,  in  whose  reign  (AJX  634-644)  the  conquest  of 
Persia  was  chiefly  effected. 

2  A  place  near  Hira,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  which  was  fought  the 
fateful  battle  of  Qadisiyya. 

3  I.e.,  the  fourteen  turrets  or  battlements  which,  in  Nushirwan's  dream, 
fell  from  the  palace.  Nushirwan's  fourteen  successors  are  presumably  to  be 
reckoned  as  follows  :  (i)  Hurmazd  IV  ;  (2)  Khusraw  Parwiz  ;  (3)  Shiru'e  ; 
(4)  Ardashir  III  ;    (5)  Shahrbaraz  ;   (6)  Puran-dukht ;   (7)  Gushnaspdeh  ? 
(8)  Azarmi-dukht  ;  (9)  Khusraw,  son  of  Mihr-Gushnasp  ;  (10)  Khurrazadh- 
Khusraw  ;  (n)  Piruz,  son  of  Gushnaspdeh;  (12)  Farrukhzadh-Khusraw  ; 
(13)  Hurmazd  V  ;  (14)  Yazdigird  III. 


THE  CHRISTIANS   OF  NEJRAN         175 

Bilqis  Queen  of  Sheba  regicide  seems  to  have  been  regarded 
in  South  Arabia  as  the  best  title  to  the  Crown — was  by  accla- 
mation elected  king,  the  last  king,  as  it  proved  in  the  event,  of 
the  old  Himyarite  stock. 

Now  Dhii  Nuwas  elected  to  turn  Jew,  and  with  the  zeal  of 

a  proselyte,  proceeded  to  persecute   the  Christians  of  Nejran, 

whom,  on  their  refusal  to  embrace  Judaism,  he 

Dhu  Nuwis  and  sjew  wjt}1  tne  sworc[   burned  and  roasted  in  pits 

the     persecution 

°f  tofeNej'rinianS  ^US  ^or  tne  Purpose,  and  barbarously  tortured  in 

other  ways.     To  this  event  allusion  is  made  in 

sura  Ixxxv  of  the  Qur'an  :  "  Death  upon  the  People  of  the  Pits, 

of  the  Burning  Fire,  when  they  sat  over  them,  watch- 

'  Tth  pits'"5  °f   'm&  w^at  *hey  did  to  the  believers,  against  whom  they 

had  no  complaint  save  that  they  believed  in  God,  the 

Mighty,  the  Praiseworthy  !  " 

That,  as  stated  by  Tabari,  20,000  Christians  perished  in  this 
persecution    (A.D.  523)    is,  of  course,  incredible,  the    actual 
number   of  victims  being  probably    not   much    more  than  a 
hundredth  part  of  this  ;  but  the  news,  brought  by  one  of  the 
fugitives,  was  horrible  enough  to  stir  the  wrath  of  the  Abyssinian 
Ab  ssinian      Christians,  and  to  induce  their  ruler,  the  Nejashi 
COYemen°f      or  Negush,   to  send  an  army  to  avenge  his  co- 
religionists.     This  army,  commanded  by  Aryat 
and  Abraha,  utterly  defeated  the  Yamanites,  and  Dhu  Nuwas, 
perceiving  that  all  was  lost,  spurred  his  horse  into  the  sea,  and 
disappeared  for   ever  from  mortal    ken.      To  this  event  the 
Himyarite  poet  Dhii  Jadan  refers  in  the  following  verses  : — 

"Gently!    Can  tears  recall  the  things  that  are  spent  and  sped  f 
Fret  thyself  not  with  weeping  for  those  who  are  lost  and  dead  ! 
After  Baynun,1  whereof  nor  stones  nor  traces  remain, 
And  after  Silhin,   shall  man  ere  build  such  houses  again  f" 

And  again  :  — 
"  Leave  me,  accursed  shrew  /    For  what  can  avail  thy  cries  f 

1  The  names  of  two  ancient  castles,  said  to  have  been  built  by  the  Jinn 
for  Queen  Bilqis  by  command  of  Solomon. 


176  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

Plague  on  thee  !    Peace  t    In  my  throat  thy  scolding  the  spittle  dries  ! 
To  the  music  of  cithers  and  singers  in  bygone  days  'twas  fine 
When  we  drank  our  fill  and  revelled  in  royallest,  ruddiest  ivine  t 
To  drain  the  sparkling  wine-cup  I  deem  it,  indeed,  no  shame, 
When  it  brings  no  act  that  a  comrade  and  boon-companion  can  blame  ; 
For  Death  is  by  no  man  cheated,  the  grave  is  the  share  of  each, 
Though  protection  he  seek  of  the  perfumes    and  potions  and  drugs  of 

the  leech  ! 

The  monk  in  his  cloistered  dwelling,  which  rears  its  fanes  as  high 
As  the  nest  of  the  hawk  and  eagle,  in  vain  would  death  deny. 
Thou  hast  heard,  for  sure,  of  Ghumddn,1  the  house  with  the  lofty  roof, 
Which  they  built  on  a  mountain-summit,  from  meaner  dwellings  aloof  ; 
Crowned  with  the  joiner's  labour,  with  square-hewn  stones  for  stay, 
Plastered  without  and  within  with  clean,  tough,  slippery  clay. 
With  burden  of  dates  half-ripened  already  the  palm-trees  seemed 
Ready  to  break,  while  the  oil-lamps  like  summer  lightning  gleamed. 
Yet  is  this  once-new  Castle  a  pile  of  ashes  to-day, 
And  the  lambent  flames  have  eaten  its  beauty  and  form  away. 
For  Abu  Nuwds,  despairing,  hath  hastened  to  meet  his  death, 
Foretelling  their  pending  troubles  to  his  folk  with  his  latest  breath!" 

Aryat,  the  Abyssinian  conqueror  of  Yaman,  did  not,  how- 

ever, long  survive  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  victory,  for  he  was 

treacherously  slain  in  a  duel  by  his  ambitious  lieu- 

b7Ab!£had      tenant,  Abraha,  who,  however,  emerged  from  the 

combat  with  a  wound  across  his  face  which  earned 

for  him  the  nickname  of  al-Ashram,  "  the  split-nosed." 

Now  it  pleased  Abraha  to  build  at  San'a,  the  capital  of 
Yaman,  a  great  and  splendid  church,  whereby  he  hoped  to 
divert  the  stream  of  Arab  pilgrims   away    from 
the   Square  Temple  of  Mecca.     But  the  Arabs 


murmured  at  his  endeavour,  and  one  of  them,  a 
soothsayer  of  the  tribe  of  Fuqaym,  entered  the  church  by 
stealth  and  defiled  it.  Then  Abraha  was  filled  with  wrath, 
swore  to  destroy  the  Temple  of  Mecca,  and  set  out  to  execute 
his  threat  with  his  elephants  of  war  and  a  vast  host  of  Abys- 
sinians. 

1  Another  celebrated  edifice,  built  by  the  architect  Sinnimar,  who  was 
on  the  completion  of  his  task  slain  by  his  employer  lest  he  should  produce 
some  yet  more  wonderful  monument  of  his  skill. 


"THE  PEOPLE  OF  THE  ELEPHANT"    177 

While  Abraha  lay  encamped  at  Mughammas,  hard  by  the 
city  of  Mecca,  he  was  visited  by  'Abdu'l-Muttalib,  the  grand- 
father of  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  who  was  one  of 
'aShKaSS?  the  principal  men  of  the  Quraysh,that  noble  tribe 
to  whom  was  specially  entrusted  the  care  of  the 
Sanctuary.  And  Abraha,  being  well  pleased  with  his  manners 
and  address,  bade  him  through  his  interpreter  crave  a  boon. 
"I  desire,"  replied  c  Abdu'l-Muttalib,  "that  the  King  should 
restore  to  me  two  hundred  camels  which  have  been  taken  from 
me."  "  Thou  speakest  to  me,"  answered  Abraha  in  aston- 
ishment, "of  two  hundred  camels  which  I  have  taken  from 
thee,  yet  sayest  naught  of  a  Temple  which  is  the  Sanctuary  of 
thee  and  thy  fathers,  and  which  I  am  come  to  destroy !  " 
'Abdu'l-Muttalib's  rejoinder  is  characteristically  Arabian.  "I 
am  the  master  of  the  camels,"  said  he,  "  but  the  Temple  has 
its  own  Master,  who  will  take  care  of  it ;  "  and,  on  Abraha's 
remarking,  "  He  cannot  protect  it  against  me  !  "  he  added, 
"  That  remains  to  be  seen  ;  only  give  me  back  my  camels  ! " 

Having  recovered  his  camels,  'Abdu'l-Muttalib  withdrew 
with  his  associates  to  a  mountain-top  to  await  the  event,  but 
ere  he  retreated  from  Mecca  he  paid  a  visit  to  the  Ka'ba,  and, 
holding  in  his  hand  the  great  ring-knocker  on  the  outer  door, 
exclaimed  : — 

"  Lord,  in  Thee  alone  1  trust  against  them  ! 
Lord,  repel  them  from  Thine  Holy  Land  ! 
'Tis  the  Temple's  foe  who  fights  against  Thee : 
Save  Thy  town  from  his  destroying  hand  I " 

Next   day  Abraha   prepared   to  carry  out  his  threat,  and 

advanced  with  his  army,  at  the  head  of  which  marched  his 

great  elephant  Mahmud,  against  Mecca.     But  as 

TMaehm!idnt     the    elephant    advanced,  an  Arab  named  Nufayl 

came  up  to  it,  took  hold  of  its  ear,  and  cried, 

'*  Kneel  down,  O   Mahmud,  and  return   by  the  direct  way 

whereby  thou   earnest   hither,   for   thou   art   on   God's   holy 

ground  !  "     Thereat  the  elephant  knelt  down,  and,  notwith- 

13 


i;8  THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

standing  all  their  blows  and  stabs,  refused  to  move  a  step  against 
Mecca,  though  ready  enough  to  go  in  any  other  direction. 

Then  God  sent  against  the  Abyssinians  hosts  of  little  birds 
like  swallows  —  ababll^  as  the  Qur'an  calls  them  —  each  of 

which  held  three  little  stones  or  pellets  of  clay, 
™bird3ab"      one  in  its  beak  and  two  in  its  claws.     These  they 

let  fall  on  the  Abyssinians,  and  whosoever  was 
struck  by  them  died,  and  so  the  great  host  was  routed.  One 
fugitive,  they  say,  returned  to  Abyssinia  to  tell  the  tale,  and 
when  they  asked  him  "What  manner  of  birds  were  these  ?'* 
he  pointed  up  at  one  which  still  hovered  over  him.  Even  as 
he  did  so,  the  bird  let  fall  the  stone  that  it  held,  and  he  too  was 
stricken  dead. 

Such  are  the  events  which  gave  their  name  to  this  momen- 
tous year,  and  to  which  allusion  is  made  in  the  chapter  of  the 
Qur'an  entitled  the  "Sura  of  the  Elephant."  "Hast  thou  not 
seen"  it  runs,  "  how  thy  Lord  dealt  with  the  people  of  the 
Elephant  ?  Did  He  not  cause  their  plan  to  miscarry  ?  And 
made  them  like  chaff  consumed?  " 

The  opinion  which  now  generally  prevails  amongst  Euro- 
pean scholars  is  that  the  above  legend  rests  on  a  real  basis  of 

fact,  and  that  a  sudden  and  virulent  outbreak  of 
"fthekgend!3  small-pox  did  actually  decimate  and  put  to  rout 

the  impious  invaders.  Small  wonder  that  the 
Arabs  saw  in  this  almost  miraculous  preservation  of  their 
Sanctuary  the  Manifest  Power  of  God,  and  that  the  "  Year 
of  the  Elephant  "  marked  an  epoch  in  the  development  of  their 
national  life. 

But  Yaman  still  groaned  under  the  Abyssinian  yoke,  and 
Abraha  of  the  split  nose  was  succeeded  in  turn  by  his  sons 

Yaksum  J  and  Masruq,  whose  hands  were  heavy 

on  the  Himyarites,  so  that  at  length  Sayf  the  son 


of  Dhu  Yazan  went  forth  as  their  ambassador  to 

1  One  of  his  coins,  figured  by  Riippell,  bears,  according  to  Gutschmid, 
the  legend  Ba<n\£uf  'lafafii,  and  on  the  other  side  the  name  of  his  suzerain 


seek  relief  from  one  of  the  two  great  empires,  the  Byzantine 
and  the  Persian,  which  then  divided  the  mastery  of  that  region 
of  the  world.  Meeting  with  no  encouragement  from  the 
former,  he  induced  Mundhir,  the  Arab  King  of  Hira,  to 
present  him  at  the  Persian  Court.  Nushirwan  received  him 
in  his  audience-hall,  seated  on  his  gorgeous  throne,  his  head 
surmounted  by,  though  not  supporting,  the  gigantic  barrel-like 
crown,  glittering  with  rubies,  emeralds,  pearls,  and  other 
precious  stones,  supported  by  a  chain  from  the  roof,  which 
was  at  once  the  glory  and  the  oppression  of  the  Sasanian 
kings. 

"  O  King  !  "  said  Sayf  ibn  Dhu  Yazan,  when  he  had  pros- 
trated himself  before  this  gorgeous  apparition,  "the  Ravens 
have  taken  our  land  !  " 

"Which  Ravens? "  inquired  Nushirwan  ;  "  those  of  Abyssinia 
or  those  of  India  ?  " 

"The  Abyssinians,"  continued  Sayf ;  "and  now  I  come  to 
thee  that  thou  may'st  help  me  and  drive  them  away  from  me  ; 
then  shall  the  lordship  over  my  land  be  thine,  for  ye  are  pre- 
ferred by  us  to  them." 

"  Thy  land,"  answered  the  King, "  is  too  remote  from  ours, 
and  is  withal  too  poor  a  land,  wherein  is  naught  but  sheep 
and  camels,  for  us  to  desire  it.  I  cannot  venture  a  Persian 
army  in  Arabia,  nor  have  I  any  wish  so  to  do." 

So  Nushirwan  gave  him  a  present  of  ten  thousand  dirhams 
and  a  robe  of  honour,  and  so  dismissed  him.  But  the  Him- 
yarite  envoy,  as  he  went  forth  from  the  palace, 
cast  tne  g°M  m  handfuls  amongst  the  retainers, 
slaves,  pages,  and  handmaidens  who  stood  round, 
and  these  greedily  scrambled  for  it.  When  the  King  heard 
this,  he  recalled  the  envoy,  and  asked  him  how  he  dared 
deal  thus  with  the  King's  gift.  "What  else  should  I  do 
with  it  ? "  answered  he  ;  "  the  mountains  of  my  land  whence 
I  come  consist  only  of  gold  and  silver."  And  when  the  King 
heard  this,  he  swallowed  the  bait  so  artfully  presented,  and 


THE  SASANIAN  PERIOD 

detained  the  envoy  till  he  should  lay  the  matter  before  his 
advisers.  Then  said  one  of  his  counsellors,  "  O  King,  in  thy 
prisons  are  men  whom  thou  hast  cast  into  fetters  to  put  them 
to  death  ;  canst  thou  not  give  him  these  ?  If  they  perish, 
then  is  thy  purpose  fulfilled  ;  but  if  they  take  the  country, 
then  is  thy  lordship  increased." 

This  ingenious  plan  for  combining  Imperial  expansion  with 

domestic    economy    was    enthusiastically    approved,    and    an 

examination  of  the  prisons  produced  eight  hundred 

thePereunexpe-  condemned    felons,    who   were  forthwith    placed 

ditionary  force.  ,  ,  .        , 

under  the  command  or  a  superannuated  general 
named  Wahriz,  so  old  that,  as  the  story  runs,  his  eyelids 
drooped  over  his  eyes,  and  must  needs  be  bound  or  held  up 
when  he  wished  to  shoot.1  The  expeditionary  force  thus 
constituted,  and  accompanied  by  Sayf,  was  embarked  on  eight 
ships,  of  which  two  were  wrecked,  while  the  remaining  six 
safely  reached  the  coast  of  Hadramawt,  where  the  little  Persian 
army  of  six  hundred  men  was  largely  reinforced  by  the  Yamanite 
Arabs.  The  news  of  this  bold  invasion  soon  reached  Masruq, 
and  brought  him  out  at  the  head  of  his  hosts  to  give  battle. 
Then  Wahriz  made  a  great  feast  for  his  followers,  and,  while 
they  were  carousing,  burned  his  ships  and  destroyed  his  stores, 
after  which,  in  a  spirited  harangue,  he  pointed  out  that  the 
choice  between  death  and  victory  was  the  only  choice  open  to 
them,  and  called  on  them  to  play  the  part  of  men.  They 
responded  (having,  indeed,  but  little  option  in  the  matter),  and 
the  battle  began.  Wahriz  caused  some  of  those  who  stood  by 

him  to  point  out  to  him  the  Abyssinian  king, 
s^eofhwahriz  w^°  was  rendered  conspicuous  by  an  immense 

ruby,  the  size  of  an  egg,  which  blazed  on  his 
forehead.  Choosing  an  auspicious  moment,  Wahriz  shot  an 
arrow  at  him  as  he  rode  on  his  mule,  and  the  arrow  struck  fair 

1  Concerning  the  origin  of  this  curious  detail,  which  occurs  again  in 
another  connection,  see  Noldeke's  Sasaniden,  p.  226,  n  I. 


REGICIDE  AND  ANARCHY  181 

in  the  middle  of  the  ruby,  splintering  it  in  pieces  and  trans- 
fixing Masriiq's  forehead. 

The  death  of  their  king  was  the  signal  for  the  rout  of  the 
Abyssinians,  whom  the  victorious  Persians  massacred  without 

mercy,  though  sparing  their  Arab  and  Himyarite 
Pwsunatrapy.  allies  ;  and  Yaman  became  a  Persian  province, 

governed  first  by  its  conqueror,  Wahriz  (and  for 
a  part  of  his  lifetime  by  Sayf),  then  by  his  son,  grandson,  and 
great-grandson,  and  lastly,  in  the  time  of  Muhammad,  by  a 
Persian  named  Badhan  of  another  family.  Even  in  early 
Muhammadan  days  we  hear  much  of  the  Banttl-Ahr&r^  or 
"  Sons  of  the  Noble,"  as  the  Persian  settlers  in  Yaman  were 
called  by  the  Arabs. 

With  the  death  of  Nushirwan  (A.D.  578),  which  happened 
shortly  after  these  events,  the  decline  of  the  Sasanian  Empire 

began.      Proud     and     formidable     to     outward 

Rthlds^nIifn°f  appearance   as   was   the    Persian    power    against 

&°u"h[wl"      which  the  warriors  of  Islam  hurled  themselves  in 

the  following  century,  it  was  rotten  to  the  core, 
honeycombed  with  intrigues,  seething  with  discontent,  and  torn 
asunder  by  internecine  and  fratricidal  strife.  Nushirwan 's  own 
son,  Amisha-zadh  the  Christian,  revolted,  as  has  been  already 
mentioned,  against  him.  His  successor,  Hurmazd  the  Fourth, 
provoked  by  his  folly  and  ingratitude  the  formidable  revolt  of 
Bahrain  Chubin,  which  led  directly  to  his  estrangement  from 
his  son  Khusraw  Parwiz ;  the  flight  of  the  latter  and  his  two 
uncles,  Bistam  and  Bindu'e,  to  the  Byzantines  ;  and  his  own 
violent  death.  Parwiz  in  turn,  after  a  reign  long  indeed 
(A.D.  590-627),  but  filled  with  strife,  intrigue  and  murder,  was 
murdered  by  his  son,  Shiru'e,  after  a  travesty  of  judicial 
attainder  which  did  but  add  senseless  insult  to  unnatural 
cruelty.  After  a  reign  of  only  a  few  months,  which  he 
inaugurated  by  the  murder  of  eighteen  of  his  brothers,  the 
parricide  sickened  and  died  ;  and  a  fearful  plague  which 
devastated  Persia  seemed  the  appropriate  sign  of  Heaven's 


1 82  THE  SAsANIAN  PERIOD 

i 
wrath  against  this  wicked  king.     His  infant  son,  Ardashir,  a 

boy  seven  years  old,  succeeded  him,  but  was  besieged  and 
slain  in  his  capital  Ctesiphon  by  the  usurper  Shahrbaraz, 
who  in  turn  was  assassinated  some  forty  days  later  (June  9, 
A.D.  630)  by  three  of  his  bodyguard.  Piiran-dukht,  daughter  of 
Khusraw  Parwiz,  next  ascended  the  perilous  throne,  and  seemed 
by  her  wisdom  and  good  intentions  destined  to  inaugurate  a 
brighter  epoch,  but,  after  restoring  the  wood  of  the  True 
Cross  to  the  Byzantine  Emperor,  she  too  died  after  a  reign  of 
sixteen  months.  She  was  succeeded  by  a  distant  cousin  of  her 
father,  who,  under  the  name  of  Piruz,  reigned  less  than  a 
month,  and  was  followed  by  her  sister,  the  beautiful  Azarmf- 
dukht.  She,  to  avenge  an  insult,  compassed  the  death  of 
Farrukh-Hurmazd,  the  Spahbadh  of  Khurasan,  and  was  in 
turn  slain,  after  a  brief  reign  of  six  months,  by  his  son  Rustam, 
the  Persian  general,  who  four  years  later  (in  A.D.  635)  perished 
in  the  disastrous  defeat  of  Qadisiyya.  Four  or  five  other 
ephemeral  rulers,  some  of  whom  were  murdered  and  some 
deposed,  intervened  between  her  and  her  father's  grandson,  the 
ill-fated  Yazdigird  the  Third,  who,  last  of  that  royal  and  noble 
House,  perished  miserably,  a  solitary  fugitive,  at  the  hands  of  a 
wretched  churl  whose  greed  had  been  aroused  by  the  jewels 
which  alone  remained  to  the  hunted  and  ruined  king  to  tell  of 
his  rank  and  riches.  When  Nushirwan  had  heard  from 
'Abdu'l-Masih  the  intepretation  of  his  vision  he  consoled 
himself  with  the  reflection  that  fourteen  kings  of  his  House 
should  rule  after  him  ere  the  final  catastrophe.  The  first 
fourteen  kings  of  the  dynasty  reigned  in  all  more  than  two 
centuries  :  who  could  suppose  that  the  reigns  of  the  eleven 
rulers  who  intervened  between  Khusraw  Parwiz  and  Yazdigird 
the  Third  would  not  altogether  amount  to  more  than  five 
years  ?  x 

And  all  this  time  the  enemy  was  thundering  at  the  gates  of 

1  Shiru'e  succeeded  to  the  throne  on  February  25,  A.D.  628  ;  Yazdigird 
III,  the  last  king  of  the  House  of  Sasan,  at  the  end  of  A.D.  632  or  the  begin- 
ning of  A.D.  633. 


THE  PROPHETS  MESSAGE  183 

the  doomed  empire  with  ever-increasing  insistence.      Three 

presages  of  disaster,  in  particular,  are  enumerated 

WtoSf?.°f     by    TabariV  the    Muslim    historian,   as    Divine 

warnings  to. Khusraw  Parwiz  of  the  consequences 

which  his  rejection  of  the  message  of  the  Arabian  Prophet 

would  entail.     The  letter  in  which  this  message  was  embodied 

is  said  to  have  been  couched  in  the  following  words  : —  3 

"  In  the  Name   of  God,  the  Merciful,  the   Compassionate.     From 

Muhammad  the  Apostle  of  God  to  Khusraw  son  of  Hurmazd.    But  to 

proceed.     Verily  I  extol  unto  thee  God,  beside  whom  there 

TJ16  Prophet;*    is  no  Ofjicr  GO(I  .  fjc  n  js  wno  guarded  me  -when  I  was  an 

ctter  to  I \ir\viz. 

orphan,  and  made  me  rich  when  I  was  destitute,  and  guided 
me  when  I  was  straying  in  error.  Only  he  who  is  bereft  of  understanding, 
and  over  whom  calamity  triumphs,  rejects  the  message  which  I  am  sent  to 
announce.  0  Khusraw  !  Submit  and  thou  shall  be  safe,  or  else  prepare 
to  wage  with  God  and  with  His  apostle  a  war  which  shall  not  find  them 
helpless!  Farewell!" 

Khusraw  Parwiz,  according  to  one  story,  tore  the  letter  in 
pieces,  whereupon  the  Muslim  envoy  exclaimed,  "  Thus,  () 
impious  King,  shall  God  rend  asunder  thine  empire  and  scatter 
thy  hosts  !  "  In  another  account,  the  Persian  King  is  said  to 
have  written  to  Badhan,  satrap  of  Yaman  (see  p.  181  supra) 
bidding  him  march  on  Medina,  seize  the  Prophet  Muhammad, 
and  bring  him  captive  to  Ctesiphon.3 

The  portents  described  as  warning  Khusraw  Parwiz  of  the 
swiftly  approaching  doom  of  the  Persian  Empire  fall  into  three 
categories — visions,  signs,  and  actual  historical  events. 

The  visions  include  the  apparition  to  Khusraw  Parwiz  of  an 
angel,  who  breaks  a  staff  symbolising  the   Persian 
^iT  visions'9'    Power>  and  tne  writing  on  the  wall,  whereof  the 
purport  is  thus  given  in  the  Nihdyatul-Irab  : — 

1  See  Noldeke's  Sasaniden,  pp.  303-345. 

"  The  text  is  taken  from  the  rare  Nihdyatu'l-Irab,  Cambridge  MS. 
See  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  April,  1900,  p.  251. 
3  See  the  article  mentioned  in  the  last  note,  p.  251. 


1 84  THE   SASANIAN  PERIOD 

"  O  weak  man  !  Verily  God  hath  sent  unto  His  people  an  Apostle, 
and  hath  revealed  unto  him  a  Scripture,  therefore  submit  and  believe, 
and  He  will  vouchsafe  to  tliee  the  good  of  this  world  and  the  next.  But  if 
thou  wilt  not  do  this,  thou  shall  shortly  perish,  and  thy  kingdom  shall 
perish,  and  thy  power  shall  depart  from  thee  !  " 

The  signs  include  the  repeated  bursting  of  a  dam  placed  by 

order  of  the  King  in  the  "  blind "  Tigris  (a  branch  of  that 

river  which  flowed  by  Basra)  ;  the  collapse  of  the 

vaulted    arch  from  which  depended    the    mighty 

barrel-like  crown  over  his  throne  ;  and  the  play  of  lightnings 

reaching  towards  the  east  over  Hijaz. 

The  historical  event  was  the  Battle  of  Dhu   Qar  (fought 
between   A.D.  604   and    610),  an    engagement    which,  com- 
paratively insignificant  in  itself,  yet  served  to  teach 
(3)  Dh^Qa"6  °f  the  Arabs  that,  for  all  their  higher  civilisation,  their 
wealth,  and  their  renown,  the  Persians  were  not 
invincible.     "  This,"  said  the  Prophet,  when  he  heard  of  it, 
"  is  the  first  day  whereon  the  Arabs  have  obtained  satisfaction 
from  the  Persians  j  through  me  have  they  obtained  help  ! " 


CHAPTER  V 


THE    ARAB    INVASION 

"  DURING  the  first  half  of  the  seventh  century,"  says  Dozy  in  his 

excellent  work  on    Islam,1  "everything  followed  its  accustomed 

course  in  the  Byzantine  as  in  the  Persian   Empire. 

Dozy  on  the  rise  These  two   states  continued    always  to  dispute  the 

of  the  Arab  .  .          , 

power.  possession  of  Western  Asia ;  they  were,  to  all  outward 
appearance,  flourishing ;  the  taxes  which  poured  into 
the  treasuries  of  their  kings  reached  considerable  sums,  and  the 
magnificence,  as  well  as  the  luxury  of  their  capitals  had  become 
proverbial.  But  all  this  was  but  in  appearance,  for  a  secret  disease 
consumed  both  empires ;  they  were  burdened  by  a  crushing 
despotism ;  on  either  hand  the  history  of  the  dynasties  formed  a 
concatenation  of  horrors,  that  of  the  state  a  series  of  persecutions 
born  of  dissentions  in  religious  matters.  At  this  juncture  it  was 
that,  all  of  a  sudden,  there  emerged  from  deserts  hardly  known  and 
appeared  on  the  scene  of  the  world  a  new  people,  hitherto  divided 
into  innumerable  nomad  tribes,  who,  for  the  most  part,  had  been  at  war 
with  one  another,  now  for  the  first  time  united.  It  was  this  people, 
passionately  attached  to  liberty,  simple  in  their  food  and  dress, 
noble  and  hospitable,  gay  and  witty,  but  at  the  same  time  proud, 
irascible,  and,  once  their  passions  were  aroused,  vindictive, 
irreconcilable  and  cruel,  who  overthrew  in  an  instant  the  venerable 
but  rotten  Empire  of  the  Persians,  snatched  from  the  successors  of 
Constantine  their  fairest  provinces,  trampled  under  their  feet  a 
Germanic  kingdom  but  lately  founded,  and  menaced  the  rest  of 
Europe,  while  at  the  same  time,  at  the  other  end  of  the  world,  its 
victorious  armies  penetrated  to  the  Himalayas.  Yet  it  was  not  like 
so  many  other  conquering  peoples,  for  it  preached  at  the  same  time 


1  Translated  into  French  by  Victor  Chauvin  under  the  title  of  Essai  sur 
I'Histoire  de  I'lslatnistne  (Leyden  and  Paris,  1879). 

185 


1  86  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

a  new  religion.  In  opposition  to  the  dualism  of  the  Persians  and  a 
degenerate  Christianity,  it  announced  a  pure  monotheism  which  was 
accepted  by  millions  of  men,  and  which,  even  in  our  own  time, 
constitutes  the  religion  of  a  tenth  part  of  the  human  race." 

We  have  seen  that,  as  at  the  Battle  of  Dhu  Qar,  signs  of 
the  immense  vitality  and  potential  strength  of  the  Arabs  — 
hitherto  regarded  by  their  neighbours  as  a  "  negligible 
quantity  "  —  were  not  altogether  wanting  even  before  the 
triumph  of  Islam  ;  yet  it  was  undoubtedly  to  Islam,  that 
simple  yet  majestic  creed  of  which  no  unprejudiced  student 
can  ignore  the  grandeur,  that  they  owed  the  splendid  part 
which  they  were  destined  to  play  in  the  history  of  civilisation. 
In  judging  of  the  Arabian  Prophet,  Western  critics  are  too 
often  inclined  to  ignore  the  condition  from  which  he  raised  his 
country,  and  to  forget  that  many  institutions,  such  as  slavery 
and  polygamy,  which  they  condemn  were  not  introduced  but 
only  tolerated  by  Islam.  The  early  Muslims  were  very 
sensible  of  the  immense  amelioration  in  their  life  effected 
by  Muhammad's  teaching.  What  this  amelioration  was  is 
well  shown  in  the  following  passage  from  the  oldest  extant 
biography  of  the  Prophet,  that  of  Ibn  Hisham  (t  A.H. 
=  A.D.  828-9)  :  —  x 


"How  the  Negush  summoned  the  Muhdjirun3  before  him,  and 
questioned  them  concerning  their  Religion;  and  their 
answer  concerning  this. 

"  Then  he  (i.e.,  the   Negush  or  ruler   of  Abyssinia)   sent  unto 

the  followers  of  the  Apostle  of  God  and  summoned    them.     So 

when  his  messenger  came  unto  them,  they  gathered 

Ibn  Hisham  s      , 

account  of  the    together,   and   said    one   to  another,   'What  will  ye 

M5foMi?"    say  to  the  man  when  >'e  come  before  him  ?  '  '  By  Allah  !  ' 
Negush  of       they  replied,  '  we  will  declare  what  we  know,  and  what 

Abyssinia.  «     «    *•          •    •        , 

our  Apostle  hath  enjoined  on  us,  come  what  may  ! 
So  when  they  came  to  the  Negush,  he  had  convened  his  bishops, 
who  had  spread  out  their  books  round  about  him  ;  and  he  inquired 

1  Edited  Dy  Wustenfeld,  1859;  German  translation  by  Weil,  Stuttgart,  1864. 

'Muhdjirun  ("Fugitives")  is  the  name  given  to  the  disciples  of 
Muhammad  who  were  compelled  by  persecution  to  flee  from  Mecca  and 
seek  a  refuge  in  Abyssinia  and  elsewhere. 


MUSLIMS  BEFORE   THE  NEGtfSH       187 

of  them  saying, '  What  is  this  religion  by  reason  of  which  ye  have 
separated  from  your  people,  yet  enter  not  withal  into  my  religion 
nor  into  the  religion  of  any  other  of  these  churches  ? ' 

"  Then  answered  him  Ja'far  the  son  of  Abu  Talib  (may  God's 
approval  rest  upon  him  !)  saying,  '  O  King  !  We  were  a  barbarous 
folk,  worshipping  idols,  eating  carrion,  committing  shameful  deeds, 
violating  the  ties  of  consanguinity,  and  evilly  entreating  our  neigh- 
bours, the  strong  amongst  us  consuming  the  weak  ;  and  thus  we 
continued  until  God  sent  unto  us  an  Apostle  from  our  midst,  whose 
pedigree  and  integrity  and  faithfulness  and  purity  of  life  we  knew, 
to  summon  us  to  God,  that  we  should  declare  His  unity,  and 
worship  Him,  and  put  away  the  stones  and  idols  which  we  and 
our  fathers  used  to  worship  in  His  stead ;  and  he  bade  us  be 
truthful  in  speech,  and  faithful  in  the  fulfilment  of  our  trusts,  and 
observing  of  the  ties  of  consanguinity  and  the  duties  of  neighbours, 
and  to  refrain  from  forbidden  things  and  from  blood ;  and  he 
forbade  us  from  immoral  acts  and  deceitful  words,  and  from 
consuming  the  property  of  orphans,  and  from  slandering  virtuous 
women ;  and  he  commanded  us  to  worship  God,  and  to  associate 
naught  else  with  Him,  and  to  pray  and  give  alms  and  fast.'  Then, 
when  he  had  enumerated  unto  him  the  commandments  of  Islam, 
he  continued,  '  So  we  accepted  him  as  true  and  believed  in  him  and 
followed  him  in  that  which  he  brought  from  God,  worshipping  God 
alone,  and  associating  naught  else  with  Him,  and  holding  unlawful 
that  which  he  prohibited  to  us,  and  lawful  that  which  he  sanctioned 
unto  us.  Then  our  people  molested  us,  and  persecuted  us,  and 
strove  to  seduce  us  from  our  faith,  that  they  might  bring  us  back 
from  the  worship  of  God  to  the  worship  of  idols,  and  induce  us 
to  hold  lawful  the  evil  practices  which  we  had  formerly  held 
lawful.  So  they  strove  to  compel  us,  and  oppressed  us,  and 
constrained  us,  and  strove  to  come  between  us  and  our  religion. 
Wherefore  we  came  forth  unto  thy  land,  choosing  thee  over  all 
beside  thee,  and  eagerly  desirous  of  thy  protection.  And  now, 
O  King,  we  pray  that  we  may  not  be  oppressed  before  thee  ! ' 

"  Then  said  the  Negush  to  him,  '  Hast  with  thee  aught  of  that 
which  thy  Prophet  received  from  God  ? '  '  Yea,'  said  Ja'far.  '  Then 
read  it  to  me,'  said  the  Negush.  So  he  read  unto  him  the  opening 
words  of  the  sura  entitled  K.H.Y.'.S.,*  and  the  Negush  wept  so  that 


1  Chap,  xix  of  the  Qur'an,  better  known  as  the  Suratu  Maryam,  or 
"  Chapter  of  Mary."  Concerning  the  mysterious  letters  prefixed  to  this 
and  twenty-eight  other  Suras  of  the  Qur'an,  see  Sale's  Preliminary 
Dicourses,  §  iii. 


188 

his  beard  was  wet  with  his  tears,  and  his  bishops  wept  with  him, 
until  their  books  were  wet  with  their  tears,  when  they  heard  what  he 
read  unto  them.  Then  said  the  Negush  to  them,  '  Verily  this  and 
that  which  Moses  brought  emanate  from  one  Lamp.  Go,  for  by 
Allah  I  will  not  suffer  them  to  get  at  you,  nor  even  contemplate  this.' " 

To  enter  into  a  discussion  as  to  the  character  and  motives  of 
the  Prophet  Muhammad  would  lead  us  too  far  afield,  more 
especially  as  these  matters,  together  with  his  history,  the 
development  of  his  doctrines,  and  the  progress — slow  at  first, 
but  afterwards  lightning-like  in  its  rapidity — of  his  religion, 
have  been  ably  and  adequately  discussed  in  the  monographs 
of  Sale,  Sprenger,  Muir,  Krehl,  Noldeke,  Boswell  Smith, 
and  Sayyid  Amir  'All.  Of  these  works  the  last,  written 
from  the  point  of  view  of  a  modern  broad-minded  and  well- 
read  Muslim,  conversant  alike  with  Eastern  and  Western 
views,  is  especially  deserving  of  study  by  those  who  desire  to 
understand  the  strong  hold  which  Islam  and  its  Prophet  still 
have  even  on  those  Muslims  who  are  most  imbued  with 
European  culture  and  learning.  The  great  strength  of 
Islam  lies  in  its  simplicity,  its  adaptibility,  its  high  yet  perfectly 
attainable  ethical  standard.  The  Christian  ethical  standard  is, 
we  must  admit,  higher,  but  almost  beyond  the  reach  of  the 
individual,  and  quite  beyond  the  reach  of  the  State.  The 
ideal  Muslim  state  is  conceivable  and  was  actually  realised, 
or  very  nearly  so,  by  Muhammad's  immediate  successors,  the 
four  "  Orthodox  Caliphs,"  whose  rule  the  historian  al-Fakhrf 
thus  describes  : — 

"  Know  that  this  was  a  state  not  after  the  fashion  of  the  states 

of  this  world,  but  rather  resembling  prophetic  dispensations  and 

the  conditions  of  the  world  to  come.     And  the  truth 

C'aiatFakhr?m     concerning  it  is  that  its  fashion  was  after  the  fashion 

of  the  Prophets,  and  its  conduct  after  the  model  of  the 

Saints,  while  its  victories  were  as  those  of  mighty  Kings.     Now  as 

for  its  fashion,  this  was  hardship  in  life  and  simplicity  in  food  and 

raiment ;  one  of  them  (i.e.,  the  early  Caliphs)  would  walk  through 

the  streets  on  foot,  wearing  but  a  tattered  shirt  reaching  half-way 


THE  EARLY  MUSLIMS  189 

down  his  leg,  and  sandals  on  his  feet,  and  carrying  in  his  hand 
a  whip,  wherewith  he  inflicted  punishment  on  such  as  deserved  it. 
And  their  food  was  of  the  humblest  of  their  poor  ;  the  Commander 
of  the  Faithful  (on  whom  be  peace  !)  spoke  of  honey  and  fine  bread 
as  typical  of  luxury,  for  he  said  in  one  of  his  speeches,  '  If  I  v;ished, 
I  could  have  tb«  finest  of  this  honey  and  the  softest  of  this  barley- 
bread.' 

"  Know  further  that  they  were  not  abstinent  in  respect  to  their 
food  and  raiment  from  poverty  or  inability  to  procure  the  most 
sumptuous  apparel  or  the  sweetest  meats,  but  they  used  to  do  this 
in  order  to  put  themselves  on  an  equality  with  the  poorest  of  their 
subjects,  and  to  wean  the  flesh  from  its  lusts,  and  to  discipline  it  till  it 
should  accustom  itself  to  its  highest  potentialities  ;  else  was  each 
one  of  them  endowed  with  ample  wealth,  and  palm-groves,  and 
gardens,  and  other  like  possessions.  But  most  of  their  expenditure 
was  in  charitable  uses  and  offerings  ;  the  Commander  of  the 
Faithful  '  Ali  (on  whom  be  peace  !)  had  from  his  properties  an 
abundant  revenue,  all  of  which  he  spent  on  the  poor  and  needy, 
while  he  and  his  family  contented  themselves  with  coarse  cotton 
garments  and  a  loaf  of  barley-bread. 

"  As  for  their  victories  and  their  battles,  verily  their  cavalry 
reached  Africa  and  the  uttermost  parts  of  Khurdsan  and  crossed 
the  Oxus." 


Muhammad's  task  was  no  easy  one,  and  for  the  first  eight 
or  ten  years  of  his  mission,  in  fact  till  his  flight  (hijra)  from 

Mecca  to  Madina  in  A.D.  622 — the  epoch  whence 
character^  the  to  th{s  Jay  his  followers  date — must  have  appeared 

hopeless  save  to  such  as  were  possessed  by  a  faith 
which  neither  recognised  impossibility  nor  admitted  despair. 
It  was  not  only  that  the  Arabs,  especially  the  Bedouin  of  the 
desert,  did  not  wish  to  abandon  their  old  gods  and  their 
ancient  customs ;  they  definitely  disliked  the  pious  ideals  of 
Islam,  disbelieved  in  its  threats  and  promises  of  pains  and 
pleasures  beyond  the  grave,  and  intensely  resented  the  discip- 
line to  which  it  would  subject  them.  The  genuine  Arab  of 
the  desert  is  and  remains  at  heart  a  sceptic  and  a  materialist  ; 
his  hard,  clear,  keen,  but  somewhat  narrow  intelligence,  ever 
alert  in  its  own  domain,  was  neither  curious  nor  credulous  in 


190  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

respect  to  immaterial  and  supra-sensual  things ;  his  egotistical 
and  self-reliant  nature  found  no  place  and  felt  no  need  for  a 
God  who,  if  powerful  to  protect,  was  exacting  of  service  and 
self-denial.  For  the  rest,  Allah  ta'd/d,  the  Supreme  God 
preached  by  Muhammad,  was  no  new  discovery  of  Islam,  and 
if  He  received  from  the  old  Pagan  Arabs  less  attention  and 
poorer  offerings  than  the  minor  deities,  it  was  because  the 
latter,  being  in  a  sense  the  property  of  the  tribe,  might  fairly 
be  expected  to  concern  themselves  more  diligently  about  its 
affairs.  Yet  even  to  them  scant  reverence  was  paid,  unless 
matters  went  as  their  worshippers  desired.  "  A  la  moindre 
occasion,"  says  Dozy,  "on  se  f&chait  contre  les  dieux,  on 
leur  disait  comme  il  faut  leurs  ve"rites  et  on  les  outrageait." 
Oracles  which  failed  to  give  the  desired  reply  were  insulted  ; 
idols  which  did  not  accept  the  sacrifices  offered  to  them  in  a 
becoming  manner  were  abused  and  pelted  with  stones  ;  gods 
were  deposed  and  improvised  on  the  smallest  provocation. 
Yet  all  this  did  not  dispose  the  Arabs  to  accept  a  new  and 
exacting  religion.  The  old  gods,  if  ineffectual,  were  at  least 
intimate  and  inoffensive,  and  if  they  gave  little,  they  expected 
little  in  return.  Islam,  moreover,  was  uncompromising  in  its 
attitude  towards  them  ;  they  and  their  followers — even  those 
who  lived  before  the  Light  came — were  in  hell-fire,  and  no 
favourite  fetish  was  suffered  to  endure  for  a  moment  by  the 
iconoclastic  zeal  of  the  new  faith.  More  than  this,  as 
Dr.  Goldziher  has  well  shown  in  the  first  chapter  of  his 
luminous  and  erudite  Muhammedanische  Studieny  wherein, 
under  the  title  "  Dm  and  Muruwwa,"  he  contrasts  the  ideals 
of  the  jfdhiliyya,  or  pagan  times,  with  those  of  Islam,  these 
ideals  were  in  many  respects  incompatible,  and  even  diametri- 
cally opposed.  Personal  courage,  unstinted  generosity,  lavish  hos- 
pitality, unswerving  loyalty  to  kinsmen,  ruthlessness  in  avenging 
any  wrong  or  insult  offered  to  one's  self  or  one's  relations  or 
tribesmen  :  these  were  the  cardinal  virtues  of  the  old  pagan 
Arab  j  while  resignation,  patience,  subordination  of  personal 


191 

and  tribal  interests  to  the  demands  of  a  common  faith,  un- 
worldliness,  avoidance  of  ostentation  and  boastfulness,  and 
many  other  things  enjoined  by  Islam  were  merely  calculated 
to  arouse  his  derision  and  contempt. 

To  make  the  contrast  clearer,   let  us  compare  the  spirit 

revealed  by  the  two  following  passages,  of  which  the  first  is 

taken  (v.  178)  from  the  second  sura  of  the  Qur'an 

y^>?aa!!deof  (entitled  "the  Cow"),  while  the  second  is  a  poem 

tootnStd.  ascribed  to  the  old  robber-minstrel  Ta'abbata 
Sharr*",  a  name  suggestive  enough,  for  it  signifies 
"  he  took  an  armful  of  wickedness." 

The  first  runs  as  follows  : — 

"  Righteousness  is  not  that  ye  turn  your  faces  to  the  East  and  to 

the  West,  but  righteousness  is  this  :  whosoever  believeth  in  God, 

and  the  Last  Day,  and  the  Angels,  and  the  Book,  and 

the  Prophets  ;  and  whoso,  for  the  love  of  God,  giveth 

of  his  wealth  unto  his  kindred,  and  unto  orphans,  and  the  poor,  and 

the  traveller,  and  to  those  who  crave  an  alms,  and  for  the  release  of 

the  captives ;  and,  whoso  observeth  prayer  and  giveth  in  charity ; 

and  those  who,  when  they  have  covenanted,  fulfil  their  covenant ; 

and  who  are  patient  in  adversity  and  hardship,  and  in  times  of 

violence.    These  are  the  righteous  and  they  that  fear  the  Lord  ! "  * 

The  second  is  sometimes  considered  to  be  a  forgery  made 

by  that  clever  but  not  very  scrupulous   scholar    Khalaf  al- 

Ahmar  ;  but  the  late  Professor  Robertson  Smith 

Ta'abbata      held,  as  it  seems  to  me  with  good  reason,  that  it 

Sharran. 

breathes  throughout  so  essentially  pagan  a  spirit 
that  it  can  scarcely  be  regarded  as  a  fabrication  ;  or,  if  it  be 
such,  it  is  so  artfully  devised  as  to  sum  up,  as  it  were,  the 
whole  spirit  of  the  old  pagan  Arabs.2  The  poem  celebrates 

1  Cited  in  Sir  William  Muir's  excellent  little  volume  entitled  Extracts 
from  the  Coran  (London,  1880). 

•  The  text  of  this  poem  will  be  found  at  pp.  187-188  of  Wright's  Arabic 
Reading-Book  (London,  1870).  A  spirited  German  translation  in  verse  is 
included  in  an  article  on  the  poet  by  Baur  in  vol.  x.  (for  1856  ;  pp.  74-109) 
of  the  Zeitschri/t  d.  Deutschen  Morgenlaiidischen  Gesellschaft. 


192  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

the  vengeance  exacted  by  the  singer  from  the  tribe  of  Hudhayl 
for  the  murder  of  his  uncle,  with  a  description  of  whose 
virtues  it  opens  : — 


"  Verily  in  the  ramne  below  Sal'a  lies  a  murdered  man  whose  blood 

is  not  suffered  to  rest  unavenged. 
He  left  and  bequeathed  the  burden  [of  vengeance]   to  me,  and 

blithely  did  I  take  tip  the  burden  for  him. 
And  in  quest  of  the  blood-revenge,  on  my  part,  is  a  sister's  son,  a 

swordsman  whose  harness  is  not  loosened, 
A   stealthy  tracker  who  sweats  venom,    tracking  like  the  rustling 

viper,  spitting  poison. 

Grievous  and  crushing  were  the   tidings   that  reached  us,  waxing 

great  till  the  greatest  seemed  small  beside  them ! 
Fate  hath  robbed  us  (and  she  was  ever  faithless)  of  one  hard  of 

approach  whose  client  was  never  abased  ! 
A  sun-beam  in  the  winter-weather,  until,  when  the  Dog-star  blazed, 

he  was  a  coolness  and  a  shadow  ; 
Lean    of  the  sides,   but  not  from   want,   open-handed,  wise  and 

disdainful ; 
Journeying   with   prudence,  so    that,    when    he    halted,   prudence 

halted  where  he  halted  ; 
The  rushing  rain  of  the  rain-cloud  when  he  would  confer  benefits, 

and,  when  he  sprang  to  the  fray,  a  conquering  lion ; 
Long-bearded  in   the  tribe,  swarthy,  ample-skirted;  and,  when  on 

the  war-path,  a  slim  hycena-wolf. 
And  he  had  two  tastes,  honey  and  colocynth,  of  which  two  tastes 

every  one  had  tasted. 
He  would  ride  through  the  'Terror'  [i.e.,  the  Desert]  alone,  none 

bearing  him  company  save  his  notched  sword-blade  of  Yemen. 

A  band  of  brave  fellows  travelling  through  the  noon-day  glare  and 
then  on  through  the  night,  until,  when  the  morning  mists  were 
dispelled,  they  alighted; 

Each  keen  warrior  girt  with  a  keen  blade,  flashing  like  the  light- 
ning when  unsheathed. 

So  we  exacted  from  them  the  blood-revenge,  and  of  the  two 
factions  there  escaped  not  save  the  fewest. 

They  were  sipping  bteaths  of  sleep,  and  when  they  dozed  I  smote 
them  with  consternation  and  they  were  scattered. 


THE  PAGAN  ARABS  193 

And  if  Hudhayl  broke  his  sword-blade,   many  a   sword-blade  of 

Hudhayl  did  he  break  ! 
And  many  a  time   did   he  make   them   kneel   down  in  a  jagged 

kneeling- place,  whereon  the  feet  were  torn  I 
A  nd  many  a  time  did  he  surprise  them  at  morning  in  their  shelter, 

whereby  there  was  plundering  and   looting  when   the   killing 

was  done/ 

Hudhayl  hath  been  roasted  by  me,  a  gallant  warrior  who  wearieth 

not  of  evil  till  they  weary, 
Who  gireth  his  spear  its  first  drink,  so  that,  when  it  hath  drunk  its 

first  draught,  it  hath  thereafter  its  second  draught. 
Wine  hath  become  lawful  to  me  when  it  was  unlawful;  and   by 

what  labour  did  it  scarce  become  lawful ! 
Give  me  to  drink,  then,  O  Sawdd  son  of  'Amr,  for  verily  my  body 

hath  waxed  lean  since  my  uncle's  death  I 

The  hyaena  laughs  over  the  slain  of  Hudhayl,  and  thou  may'st  see 
Hie  wolf  baring  his  gleaming  teeth  upon  them, 

And  the  birds  of  prey  awake  gorged  in  the  morning,  trampling 
upon  them,  unable  to  fly  !  " 

"  Honour  and  revenge,"  in  short,  as  Muir  well  says,  were 
the  keynotes  of  the  pagan  Arab's  ideal  muruwwa  ("  manli- 
ness "  or  "  virtue") ;  to  be  free,  brave,  generous;  to  return 
good  for  good  and  evil  for  evil  with  liberal  measure  ;  to  hold 
equally  dear  wine,  women,  and  war  ;  to  love  life  and  not  fear 
death  ;  to  be  independent,  self-reliant,  boastful,  and  predatory  ; 
above  all,  to  stand  by  one's  kinsmen,  right  or  wrong,  and  to 
hold  the  blood-tie  above  all  other  obligations,  such  were  the 
ideals  of  the  old  pagan  Arabs,  as  they  are  still  of  the  Bedouin, 
who  are  Muslims  in  little  else  than  the  name.  Alike  typical 
and  touching  was  the  attitude  of  Muhammad's  uncle  Abu 
Talib  towards  his  nephew."  "O  my  nephew,"  he  said,  in 
reply  to  the  Prophet's  earnest  attempts  to  convert  him  to 
Islam,  "  I  cannot  forsake  the  faith  of  my  fathers  and  what  they 
held,  but,  by  Allah  !  naught  shall  be  suffered  to  befall  thee 
whereby  thou  may'st  be  vexed  so  long  as  I  remain  alive  ! "  * 

1  Ibn  Hisham  (ed.  Wiistenfeld),  p.  160, 


194  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

Disbelieving  in  the  Prophet's  claims,  or,  if  believing  them, 
preferring  hell-fire  in  the  company  of  his  ancestors  to  the 
paradise  offered  to  him  as  the  reward  of  belief,  he  yet  would 
not  suffer  his  nephew  to  be  molested  at  the  hands  of  strangers. 

The  period  extending  from  the  hijra  or  Flight  of  the 
Prophet  (June,  A.D.  622)  to  the  death  of  'Umar,  the  second 
of  the  Four  Orthodox  Caliphs  (al-K^hulafau  *r-Rashidun\  in 
A.D.  644,  may  be  regarded  as  the  golden  age  of  pious,  as 
opposed  to  philosophical,  Islam  ;  for  though  the  ideal  theocracy 
depicted  by  al-Fakhri  in  the  passage  already  cited  endured  till 
the  death  of  'All  (A.D.  661),  who  is  regarded  by  a  large 
section  of  the  Muslim  world  as  the  noblest,  best,  and  worthiest 
of  the  Prophet's  successors,  discord,  schism,  murder,  civil  war, 
and  internecine  feuds  entered  in  during  the  disastrous  rule  of 
the  third  Caliph,  'Uthman.  Muhammad  lived  to  see  all 
Arabia  apparently  submissive  to  his  doctrine,  but  no  sooner 
was  he  dead  than  a  widespread  revolt  against  Islam  broke  out 
amongst  the  Arab  tribes,  and  not  till  this  was  quenched  in 
blood,  and  the  "renegades"  either  slain  or  reduced  to 
obedience,  could  Abu  Bakr  seriously  turn  his  attention  to  the 
conquest  and  conversion  of  non-Arabian  lands.  Of  these 
Persia  alone  concerns  us,  and  once  more  we  may  with  advan- 
tage turn  to  that  graphic  and  picturesque  historian  al-Fakhri, 
who,  after  detailing  the  signs  and  warnings  which  caused 
Nushirwan  and  Khusraw  Parwlz  such  disquietude,  and 
remarking  that  "  the  like  of  these  ominous  portents  continually 
succeeded  each  other  until  the  end  of  the  matter,"  continues 
as  follows  : — 

"  And  verily  when  Rustam  went  forth  to  do  battle  with  Sa'd  the 

son  of  Abu  Waqqas  he  saw  in  his  dream  as  it  were  an  Angel  who 

descended  from  heaven,  and  gathered  up  the  bows  of 

Al-Fakhrfs        .,       _.  , 

account  of  the    the  Persians,  and  set  a  seal  upon  them,  and  ascended 

°°Pere^  °f     with  them  into  neaven-    Then  there  was  added  there- 
unto what  they  constantly  witnessed  in  respect  to  the 
resolute  speech  of  the  Arabs,  and  their  confidence  in  themselves, 


AL-FAKHRt'S  NARRATIVE  195 

and  their  extreme  patience  under  hardships  ;  and  thereafter  the 
dissentient  voices  which  arose  amongst  themselves  towards  the 
end  of  the  matter,  after  the  death  of  Shahriyar  and  the  accession  of 
Yazdigird  to  the  royal  throne,  he  being  then  but  a  young  lad,  feeble 
in  council ;  and  lastly  the  supreme  catastrophe,  which  was  the 
veering  of  the  wind  against  them  during  the  Battle  of  Qadisiyya,  so 
that  it  blinded  them  with  dust  and  encompassed  them  in  a  universal 
destruction.  There  was  Rustam  slain  and  their  host  put  to  rout  : 
look,  then,  at  these  omens,  and  know  that  God  hath  a  purpose 
which  He  fulfilleth. 

"  Account  of  the  equipment  of  the  army  against  'Iraq,  and  the  wresting 
from  the  Persians  of  their  empire. 

"  The  frontiers  of  Persia  were  the  most  formidable  of  frontiers  to 
the  Arabs,  and  those  which  inspired  in  their  minds  the  greatest 
respect  and  fear,  so  that  they  were  loath  to  attack  them,  but  rather 
avoided  them  out  of  respect  for  the  state  of  the  Persian  kings,  and 
because  of  what  was  generally  believed  as  to  their  power  to  subdue 
other  nations.  And  thus  it  continued  until  the  latter  days  of  Abu 
Bakr,  when  there  rose  up  a  man  of  the  Companions  named  al- 
Muthanna  son  of  Haritha,  who  incited  the  people  to  give  battle 
to  the  Persians,  making  light  of  the  matter  and  inspiring  them  with 
courage  therein.  So  a  number  of  them  responded  to  his  appeal, 
and  men  remembered  what  the  Apostle  of  God  had  promised  them 
in  respect  to  the  taking  possession  of  the  treasures  of  the  Persian 
kings.  But  naught  was  effected  in  the  matter  during  the  Caliphate 
of  Abu  Bakr. 

"  But  during  the  time  of  'Umar  ibnu  '1-Khattab,  al-Muthanna  ibn 
Haritha  wrote  to  him  informing  him  of  the  troubled  state  of  Persian 
affairs,  and  of  the  accession  of  Yazdigird  the  son  of  Shahriyar  to  the 
throne,  and  of  his  youth ;  for  he  was  but  twenty-one  years  of  age 
at  the  time  of  his  accession. 

>  "Then  the  eagerness  of  the  Arabs  to  attack  Persia  was  increased, 
and  'Umar  went  forth  with  the  army  outside  Madina,  the  people 
knowing  not  whither  he  would  go,  and  no  man  daring  to  question 
him  concerning  aught ;  until  at  length  one  inquired  of  him  once  as 
to  the  time  of  their  departure,  but  got  nothing  from  his  question 
save  a  rebuke. 

"Now  it  was  their  habit  when  any  matter  troubled  them,  and  they 
must  needs  get  information  concerning  it,  to  seek  aid  from  'Uthman 
ibn  'Affan,  or  'Abdu'r-Rahman  ibn  'Awf  ;  and,  when  the  matter  was 
very  urgent  to  them,  they  added  unto  these  al-'Abbas.  So  'Uthman 
said  to  'Umar,  'O  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  what  tidings  have 


196  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

reached  thee,  and  what  dost  them  intend  ? '  Then  'Umar  called  the 
people  to  public  prayer,  and  they  assembled  round  him,  and  he 
announced  the  news  to  them,  and  exhorted  them,  and  urged  them 
to  attack  the  Persians,  making  light  of  the  enterprise  ;  and  they  all 
consented  willingly.  Then  they  asked  him  to  go  with  them  in 
person,  and  he  answered,  '  I  will  do  so  unless  a  better  plan  than 
this  should  appear.'  Then  he  sent  for  those  who  were  wisest  in 
council  and  most  eminent  among  the  Companions  and  most  prudent, 
and  summoned  them  before  him,  and  sought  counsel  of  them,  and 
they  advised  that  he  should  remain  and  should  send  one  of  the  chief 
men  of  the  Companions,  remaining  behind  himself  to  strengthen 
him  with  support.  Then,  should  they  be  victorious,  the  end  would 
be  attained,  while  if  the  man  perished,  he  would  send  another. 

"So  when  they  had  agreed  to  this  plan,  'Umar  ascended  the 
pulpit ;  for  it  was  their  custom,  when  they  wished  to  address  the 
people  collectively,  that  one  of  them  should  ascend  the  pulpit  and 
harangue  them  on  that  subject  whereon  he  desired  to  speak.  So 
when  'Umar  had  mounted  the  pulpit  he  said,  '  O  people,  verily  I 
was  resolved  to  march  forth  with  you,  but  the  wise  and  prudent 
amongs't  you  have  turned  me  from  this  plan,  suggesting  that  I  should 
abide  here  and  send  one  of  the  Companions  to  undertake  the  conduct 
of  the  war.'  Then  he  asked  their  advice  as  to  whom  he  should  send  ; 
and  at  this  juncture  a  letter  was  handed  to  him  from  Sa'd  ibn  Abi 
Waqqas,  who  was  absent  on  some  employ  ;  and  they  recommended 
him  to  'Umar,  saying,  '  He  is  a  very  lion  in  attack.'  And  this 
proposal  met  with  'Umar's  approval,  and  he  summoned  Sa'd,  and 
conferred  on  him  the  chief  command  in  'Iraq,  and  entrusted  unto 
him  the  army. 

"So  Sa'd  marched  forth  with  the  people, and  'Umar  accompanied 
them  for  some  parasangs  ;  then  he  exhorted  them  and  incited  them 
to  the  holy  war,  and  bade  them  farewell,  and  returned  unto  Madina. 
But  Sa'd,  continuing  his  march,  shifted  his  line  of  advance  into  the 
desert  which  lies  between  the  Hijaz  and  Ki'ifa,  seeking  intelligence, 
and  receiving  constant  messages  and  letters  from  'Umar,  who  kept 
advising  him  with  plan  after  plan  and  strengthening  him  with 
successive  reinforcements,  until  he  finally  decided  to  march  on 
Qadisiyya,  which  was  the  gate  of  the  Persian  Empire. 

Now  when  Sa'd  halted  at  Qadisiyya,  he  and  those  who  were  with 
him  were  in  need  of  provisions,  so  he  sent  out  some  of  his  men,  com- 
manding them  to  bring  in  some  sheep  and  cattle.  The  people  of 
Sawad  feared  their  advance,  but  they  found  a  man  and  questioned 
him  about  sheep  and  cattle.  But  he  replied,  '  I  have  no  knowledge 
concerning  this  ; '  and  behold,  he  was  himself  a  herdsman  who  had 


AL-FAKHRt'S  NARRATIVE  197 

concealed  his  beasts  in  a  place  of  security  thereabouts.  Then,  as 
they  relate,  a  bull  amongst  them  cried  out,  '  The  herdsman  lies  ! 
Lo,  here  we  are  in  this  enclosure  ! '  .So  they  entered  in  and  drove 
out  therefrom  a  number  of  cattle,  and  brought  them  to  Sa'd.  And 
they  augured  well  from  this  incident,  accounting  it  a  sign  of  help 
from  God  Almighty.  For  even  though  the  bull  did  not  speak  actual 
words  to  give  the  lie  to  the  herdsman,  none  the  less  did  its  lowing 
at  this  juncture,  whereby  they  were  guided  to  the  cattle  when  they 
were  so  grievously  in  need  of  them,  clearly  give  the  lie  to  the  herds- 
man. And  this  was  one  of  those  remarkable  coincidences  which 
presaged  victory  and  empire,  and  wherefrom  they  were  justified  in 
auguring  well. 

"  Now  when  the  news  of  Sa'd's  advance  with  his  army  reached 
the  Persians,  they  despatched  against  him  Rustam  at  the  head  of 
thirty  thousand  warriors,  the  Arab  army  consisting  of  only  some  seven 
or  eight  thousand  men,  though  afterwards  they  were  reinforced  by 
others.  And  when  the  two  armies  met,  the  Persians  were  laughing 
at  the  spears  of  the  Arabs,  which  they  compared  to  spindles ; '  apropos 
of  which  I  may  relate  an  anecdote  of  a  similar  character  which 
there  is  no  harm  in  introducing  here.  Falaku  'd-Din  Muhammad 
the  son  of  Aydamir  related  to  me  as  follows  :  '  I  was  in  the  army 
of  the  lesser  Dawidar"  when  he  marched  forth  to  meet  the  Tatars3 
on  the  western  side  of  the  City  of  Peace  [Baghdad]  on  the  occasion 
of  that  most  grievous  catastrophe  which  befell  it  in  the  year  A.H. 
656  [=A.D.  1258].  We  met  at  Nahr  Bashir,  one  of  the  tributaries 
of  the  Little  Tigris  ;  and  from  our  side  would  go  forth  to  challenge 
an  adversary  a  horseman  mounted  on  an  Arab  horse  and  wholly 
clad  in  mail,  as  though  he  and  his  horse  were  a  mountain  in  solidity. 
Then  there  would  come  out  to  meet  him  from  the  Mongols  a 
horseman  mounted  on  a  horse  like  unto  an  ass,  and  holding  in  his 
hand  a  spear  like  unto  a  spindle,  unclad  and  unarmed,  so  that  all 


1  Cf.  al-Baladhuri  (ed.  de  Goeje,  pp.  259-260),  where  one  who  fought  on 
the  Persian  side  at  Qadisiyya  relates  how  they  derided  the  Arab  lances, 
calling  them  duk,  which  is  the  Persian  for  a  spindle. 

"  A  Persian  title  meaning  "  Keeper  of  the  inkstand  "  (dawlt-  or  dawdfdar), 
or,  as  it  may  be  paraphrased  "  Keeper  of  the  seals."  Al-Fakhri  wrote  his 
charming  history  at  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  century  of  our  era, 
at  a  time  when  the  events  of  the  Mongol  invasion  were  still  fresh  in  men's 
minds. 

3  So  the  Mongols  are  generally  called  by  the  Arab  historians.  The 
European  spelling  "  Tartar"  arose  from  a  desire  to  establish  an  etymological 
connection  between  this  formidable  people  and  the  infernal  regions  of 
Tartarus. 


198  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

who  beheld  him  laughed  at  him.  Yet  ere  the  day  was  done  the 
victory  was  theirs,  and  they  scattered  us  in  a  dire  defeat  which  was 
the  key  of  disaster,  so  that  then  there  happened  what  happened  in 
this  matter.' 

"  Then  ambassadors  passed  between  Rustam  and  Sa'd  ;  and  the 
Arab  of  the  desert  would  come  to  Rustam' s  door  as  he  sat  on  a 
throne  of  gold,  supported  by  gold-embroidered  cushions  in  a  room 
carpeted  with  gold-embroidered  carpets,  the  Persians  wearing 
crowns  and  making  display  of  their  ornaments,  and  the  elephants 
of  war  standing  on  the  outskirts  of  the  assembly.  So  the  Arab 
would  approach  with  his  spear  in  his  hand,  girt  with  his  sword  and 
carrying  his  bow  across  his  shoulders,  and  would  tie  up  his  horse 
near  to  Rustam's  throne.  Then  the  Persians  would  cry  out  at  him 
and  endeavour  to  prevent  him,  but  Rustam  would  stay  them ;  and 
the  Arab  would  approach  him,  walking  towards  him  leaning  on  his 
spear,  pressing  therewith  on  the  carpet  and  cushions  and  tearing 
them  with  its  spike,  while  the  Persians  looked  on.  And  when  the 
Arab  came  unto  Rustam  he  would  answer  him  back,  and  Rustam 
continually  heard  from  them  wise  words  and  replies  which 
astonished  and  affrighted  him.  Thus,  for  instance,  Sa'd  used  to 
send  a  different  ambassador  each  time ;  and  Rustam  inquired  of 
one  so  sent,  '  Why  do  they  not  send  to  us  him  who  was  with 
us  yesterday?'  'Because,'  answered  the  other,  'our  Amir  deals 
equitably  with  us  both  in  woe  and  weal.'  Another  day  he  asked, 
'What  is  this  spindle  in  thy  hand?'  meaning  his  lance.  'The 
smallness  of  a  burning  coal,'  replied  the  other,  '  is  no  hurt  to 
it.'  To  another  he  said  on  another  occasion,  '  What  ails  your  sword 
that  I  see  it  so  worn  ? '  '  Worn  of  sheath,  keen  of  blade,'  retorted 
the  Arab.  So  these  things  and  the  like  which  Rustam  saw  alarmed 
him,  and  he  said  to  his  retainers,  '  Behold,  the  pretensions  of  these 
people  are  either  true  or  false.  If  they  be  false,  then  a  people  who 
guard  their  secrets  thus  carefully,  differing  in  naught,  and  agreed 
with  such  accord  in  the  concealment  of  their  secret  that  none 
discloseth  it,  is  assuredly  a  people  of  great  strength  and  power.  But 
if  they  be  true,  then  can  none  withstand  them.'  Then  they  cried 
out  round  him,  saying,  'We  conjure  thee  by  God  not  to  abandon 
aught  which  thou  holdest  by  reason  of  anything  which  thou  hast 
seen  on  the  part  of  these  dogs  !  Rather  be  firm  in  thy  resolve  to  do 
battle  with  them.'  Then  said  Rustam,  '  This  is  my  view  which  I 
tell  you  ;  but  I  am  with  you  in  whatsoever  ye  desire.' 

"Then  they  fought  for  several  days,  on  the  last  of  which  happened 
the  veering  of  the  wind  against  the  Persians,  so  that  the  dust  blinded 
them ;  and  Rustam  was  slain,  and  his  army  was  routed,  and  their 


AL-FAKHRJ'S  NARRATIVE  199 

possessions  were  plundered,  and  the  Persians,  stricken  with  panic, 
sought  the  fords  of  the  Tigris  that  they  might  pass  to  the  eastern 
shore.  But  Sa'd  pursued  them,  and  crossed  the  fords,  and  inflicted 
on  them  another  great  slaughter  at  Jaliila,  and  plundered  their 
possessions,  and  took  captive  a  daughter  of  the  Persian  King's.1 

"  Then  Sa'd  wrote  to  'Umar  to  inform  him  of  the  victory.  And 
during  these  days  'Umar  was  anxiously  on  the  watch  for  tidings  of 
the  army,  so  that  every  day  he  used  to  go  forth  outside  Madina  on 
foot  seeking  for  news,  that  perchance  one  might  arrive  and  inform 
him  of  what  had  happened  to  them.  So  when  he  who  brought  the 
good  tidings  from  Sa'd  arrived,  'Umar  saw  him  and  called  to  him, 
'  Whence  comest  thou  ? '  '  From  'Iraq,'  answered  he.  '  What  of 
Sa'd  and  the  army?'  inquired  'Umar.  Said  the  other,  'God  hath 
rendered  them  victorious  over  all  this ; '  and  'Umar  was  walking  by 
the  side  of  the  man  as  he  rode  on  his  camel,  not  knowing  that  this 
was  'Umar.  But  when  the  people  gathered  round  him,  saluting 
him  as  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  the  Arab  recognised  him  and 
said,  '  Why  did'st  thou  not  tell  me  (may  God  be  merciful  to  thee) 
that  thou  wert  the  Commander  of  the  Faithful  ? '  '  O  my  brother/ 
replied  'Umar, 'thou  hast  done  naught  amiss.'  Then  'Umar  wrote 
to  Sa'd,  '  Stay  where  thou  art ;  pursue  them  not,  but  be  satisfied 
with  this  ;  and  make  for  the  Muslims  a  place  of  refuge  and  a  city 
wherein  they  may  dwell,  and  set  not  a  river  betwixt  me  and  them.' 
So  Sa'd  made  for  them  Kiifa,  and  traced  out  therein  the  plan  of  the 
Mosque,  while  the  people  marked  out  their  dwellings  ;  and  he  made 
it  the  capital  of  the  province.  And  thus  he  obtained  control  over 
al-Mada'ina  (Ctesiphon),  and  got  possession  of  its  treasures  and 
stores. 

"Mention  of  some  quaint  incidents  which  happened  at  this  time. 

"  Amongst  these  was  that  an  Arab  got  possession  of  a  bag  filled 
with  camphor,  and  brought  it  to  his  companions,  who,  supposing  it 
to  be  salt,3  put  it  in  the  food  which  they  were  cooking,  and  found 
it  lacking  in  savour,  not  knowing  what  it  was.  Then  one  who 
knew  what  it  was  saw  it,  and  bought  it  from  them  for  a  ragged 
shirt  worth  a  couple  of  dirhams. 

"  And  amongst  these  was  that  an  Arab  of  the  desert  got  possession 
of  a  great  ruby  worth  a  large  sum  of  money,  and  knew  not  its  value. 
And  one  who  knew  its  value  saw  it  and  bought  it  from  him  for  a 
thousand  dirhams.  Then  afterwards  the  Arab  discovered  its  value, 


1  See  pp.  130  et  seqq.  supra.  •  See  n.  i  on  p.  132  supra. 

3  Cf.  al-Baladhuri,  p.  264. 


200  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

and  his  comrades  reproached  him,  saying,  'Why  didst  thou  not 
ask  more  for  it?'  He  answered,  'If  I  had  known  of  any  number 
greater  than  a  thousand,  I  would  have  demanded  it.' ' 

"  And  amongst  these  was  that  one  of  the  Arabs  was  holding  in  his 
hand  red  gold  and  crying,  '  Who  will  take  the  yellow  and  give  me 
the  white  ? '  supposing  that  silver  was  better  than  gold. 

"  The  ultimate  fate  of  Yazdigird. 

"  Then  Yazdigird  fled  to  Khurasan,  and  his  power  was  ever 
waning  until  he  was  slain  there  in  the  year  31  of  the  Flight 
[=A.D.  651-2],  and  he  was  the  last  of  the  Persian  kings." 

I  have  translated  this  long  passage  from  al-Fakhri  because, 
in  comparatively  few  words  and  in  a  graphic  and  forcible  way, 
it  details  the  most  salient  features  of  the  Arab  conquest  of 
Persia,  though  it  is  summary  and  sketchy,  for  the  struggle 
was  neither  begun  nor  ended  with  the  fatal  battle  of  Qadisiyya. 
Early  in  the  war  the  Muslims  sustained  a  severe  defeat  at 
Qussu'n-Natif  at  the  hands  of  Mardanshah  and  four  thousand 
Persians  (November,  A.D.  634),  nor  did  the  battle  of  Naha- 
wand,  which  happened  seven  years  later  than  that  of 
Qadisiyya,  put  an  end  to  the  resistance  of  the  Persians,  who 
continued  to  defend  themselves  in  individual  localities  with  a 
stubbornness  which  reached  its  maximum  in  the  province 
of  Pars,  the  cradle  and  centre  of  Persian  greatness.  In 
Tabaristan,  protected  by  forests  and  fens,  and  separated  by 
a  wall  of  mountains  from  the  great  central  plateau  of  Persia, 
the  hpahbads^  or  military  governors  of  the  Sasanian  kings, 
maintained  an  independent  rule  until  about  A.D.  760. 

More  difficult  to  trace  than  the  territorial  conquest  of  the 
Sasanian  dominions  is  the  gradual  victory  of  the  religion  of 
Muhammad  over  that  of  Zoroaster.  It  is  often  supposed  that 
the  choice  offered  by  the  warriors  of  Islam  was  between  the 
Qur'an  and  the  sword.  This,  however,  is  not  the  fact,  for 
Magians,  as  well  as  Christians  and  Jews,  were  permitted  to 

1  A  similar  anecdote  occurs  in  al-Baladhuri's  Kitdbu'l-Futuh  (ed.  de 
Goeje,  p.  244). 


CONVERSION  OF  THE  PERSIANS       201 

retain  their  religion,  being  merely  compelled  to  pay  a  jizya  or 
poll-tax ;  a  perfectly  just  arrangement,  inasmuch  as  non- 
Muslim  subjects  of  the  Caliphs  were  necessarily  exempt  both 
from  military  service  and  from  the  alms  (Sadaqat)  obligatory 
on  the  Prophet's  followers.  Thus  in  al-Baladhud's  History  or 
the  Muslim  Conquests  (Kitdbu  futuhi  l-buldari)  z  we  read 
(p.  69)  that  when  Yemen  submitted  to  the  Prophet,  he  sent 
agents  to  instruct  them  in  the  laws  and  observances  of  Islam, 
and  to  collect  the  alms  of  such  as  adopted  it  and  the  poll-tax 
from  such  as  continued  in  the  Christian,  Jewish,  or  Magian 
religions.  Similarly  in  the  case  of  <Umman  he  ordered  Abu 
Zayd  to  "  take  alms  from  the  Muslims  and  the  poll-tax  from 
the  Magians"  (p.  77).  In  Bahrayn  the  Persian  marzuban 
and  some  of  his  fellow-countrymen  embraced  Islam,  but  others 
continued  in  the  faith  of  Zoroaster,  paying  a  poll-tax  of  one 
dinar  for  every  adult  person.  "  The  Magians  and  Jews,"  we 
read  (p.  79),  "were  averse  to  Islam,  and  preferred  to  pay  the 
poll-tax;  and  the  hypocrites  amongst  the  Arabs  said,  c Muham- 
mad pretended  that  the  poll-tax  should  be  accepted  only  from 
the  People  of  the  Book,  and  now  he  hath  accepted  it  from  the 
Magians  of  Hajar,  who  are  not  of  the  People  of  the  Book  ;  * 
whereupon  was  revealed  the  verse,  *  O  ye  who  believe !  look  to 
vour  selves ;  he  who  errs  can  do  you  no  hurt  when  ye  are  guided: 
unto  God  is  your  return  altogether  and  He  will  make  plain  unto 
you  that  which  ye  knew  not? " 2  The  treaty  concluded  by 
Habib  b.  Maslama  with  the  people  of  Dabil  in  Armenia  ran  as 
follows  :  "  In  the  Name  of  God  the  Merciful  the  Clement. 
This  is  a  letter  from  Habib  b.  Maslama  to  the  people  of  Dabil, 
Christians,  Magians,  and  Jews,  such  of  them  as  are  present  and 
such  of  them  as  are  absent.  Verily  I  guarantee  the  safety  of 
your  lives,  properties,  churches,  temples  and  city  walls ;  ye  are 

1  Al-Baladhuri  died  in  A.H.  279  (A.D.  892).  His  work  has  been  edited  by 
de  Goeje  (Leyden,  1866). 

•  Qur'an,  v,  104.  Concerning  the  acceptance  of  the  poll-tax  from 
Zoroastrians,  as  well  as  from  Jews  and  Christians,  cf.  A.  von  Kremer's 
Culturgeschichtc  A,  Orients,  vol.  i,  p.  59. 


202  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

secure,  and  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  faithfully  to  observe  this 
treaty  so  long  as  ye  observe  it  and  pay  the  poll-tax  and  the 
land-tax.  God  is  witness,  and  He  sufficeth  as  a  witness." 
The  Caliph  'Umar,  as  would  appear  from  a  passage  in  al- 
Baladhuri  (p.  267),  had  some  doubts  as  to  how  he  ought  to 
deal  with  the  conquered  Magians,  but  'Abdu'r-Rahmdn  b. 
'Awf  sprang  to  his  feet  and  cried,  "I  bear  witness  of  the 
Apostle  of  God  that  he  said,  '  Deal  with  them  as  ye  deal  with 
the  People  of  the  Book  ! '  " 

Towns  which  resisted  the  Muslims,  especially  such  as, 
having  first  submitted,  afterwards  revolted,  did  not,  of  course, 
escape  so  easily,  and,  more  particularly  in  the  latter  case,  the 
adult  males,  or  at  any  rate  those  found  in  arms,  were  generally 
put  to  the  sword,  and  the  women  and  children  taken  captive. 
Still  it  does  not  appear  that  the  Zoroastrians  as  such  were 
subjected  to  any  severe  persecution,  or  that  the  conversion  of 
Persia  to  Isldm  was  mainly  effected  by  force.  This  has  been 
very  well  shown  by  Mr.  T.  W.  Arnold,  professor  at  the 
College  of  Aligarh,  in  chap,  vii  of  his  excellent  work  The 
Preaching  of  Islam  (London,  1896,  pp.  177-184);  he  points 
out  that  the  intolerance  of  the  Zoroastrian  priests,  not  only 
towards  those  of  other  religions,  but  towards  nonconformist 
Persian  sects,  Manichaean,  Mazdakite,  Gnostic  and  the  like, 
had  made  them  widely  and  deeply  disliked,  so  that  in  many 
Persian  subjects  "  persecution  had  stirred  up  feelings  of  bitter 
hatred  against  the  established  religion  and  the  dynasty  that 
supported  its  oppressions,  and  so  caused  the  Arab  Conquest  to 
appear  in  the  light  of  a  deliverance."  Moreover,  as  he  further 
points  out,  the  simplicity  and  elasticity  of  Isldm,  as  well  as  the 
numerous  eschatological  ideas  which  it  had  borrowed  from 
Zoroastrianism,  and  the  relief  which  it  gave  from  the  irksome 
disabilities  and  elaborate  purifications  imposed  by  that  religion, 
commended  it  to  many,  and  it  is  quite  certain  that  the  bulk  or 
conversions  were  voluntary  and  spontaneous.  After  the  defeat 
of  the  Persians  at  Qddisiyya,  for  example,  some  four  thousand 


EARLY  PERSIAN  CONVERTS  203 

soldiers  from  Daylam  (near  the  Caspian  Sea)  decided,  after 
consultation,  to  embrace  Islam  and  join  the  Arabs,  whom  they 
aided  in  the  conquest  of  Jalula,  after  which  they  settled  in 
Kufa  with  the  Muslims  ; r  and  other  wholesale  and  voluntary 
conversions  were  numerous.  Indeed  the  influx  of  Persian 
converts  and  captives  into  Arabia  caused  'Umar  some  anxiety, 
so  that,  as  the  historian  Dinawari  informs  us  (p.  136),  he 
exclaimed,  "  O  God  J  I  take  refuge  with  Thee  from  the 
children  of  these  captives  of  Jaliild  !  "  Nor,  in  the  event,  did 
his  anxiety  prove  baseless ;  and  he  himself  was  struck  down  by 
the  dagger  of  one  of  these  Persian  captives,  named  by  the 
Arabs  Abu  Liilu'a  ;  a  fact  which  even  at  the  present  day  is 
recalled  with  satisfaction  by  the  more  fanatical  Persian 
Shi'ites,  who,  at  least  till  very  lately,  used  to  celebrate  the 
anniversary  of  'Umar's  death  (called  lUmar-&ushdn)  much  as 
Guy  Fawkes'  day  is  celebrated  in  England. 

The   earliest    Persian   convert,  Salman,    one   of   the    most 
revered    "  Companions "   of  the    Prophet,   whom    the    Syrian 

sect    of  the   Nusayris  include  in    their   mystical 
SpS£n.he      Trinity  denoted  by  the  letters  <A,  M,  S  ('All 

"  the  Idea,"  Muhammad  "  the  Name,"  Salman 
"  the  Gate  "),2  embraced  Islam  before  its  militant  days,  and, 
by  his  skill  in  military  engineering,  rendered  material  service 
to  the  Prophet  in  the  defence  of  Madma.  His  history,  given 
at  considerable  length  by  Ibn  Hisham  (pp.  136-143),  is  very 
interesting ;  and  that  eager  curiosity  in  religious  matters 
which  led  him  in  his  youth  to  frequent  the  Christian 
churches  of  Isfahin,  to  flee  from  his  luxurious  home  and 
indulgent  father,  and  to  abandon  the  Magian  faith  in  which 
he  was  born,  first  for  Christianity  and  later  for  Isldm,  is 

1  Baladhuri,  p.  280  ;  A.  von  Kremer's  Culturgeschichte,  vol  i,  p.  207. 

2  See  the  confessions  of  a  Nusayn  renegade  entitled  al-Bakuratu's- 
Sttlaymdniyya,  published    at    Beyrout    without    date,   and    an    English 
translation  of  the  same  by  E.  Salisbury  in  the  Journal  of  the  American 
Oriental    Society  for   1866  (vol.   viii,  pp.   227-308).    .Also    the    Journal 
Asiatique  for  1879,  pp.  192  et  seqq. 


204  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

characteristically  Persian.  And  if  Salmin  was  the  only 
Persian  who  was  included  in  the  honoured  circle  of  the 
As-hdb  or  "  Companions,"  many  an  eminent  doctor  of  Islam 
was  from  the  first  of  Persian  race,  while  not  a  few  prisoners  of 
war  or  their  children,  such  as  the  four  sons  of  Shirin  (Sirin), 
taken  captive  at  Jaliild,  became  afterwards  eminent  in  the 
Muhammadan  world.  Thus  it  is  by  no  means  correct  to 
imply  (as  is  often  done  by  those  who  take  the  narrower  view 
of  Persian  literary  history  against  which  I  have  expressly 
guarded  myself  at  the  beginning  of  this  book)  that  the  two 
or  three  centuries  immediately  following  the  Muhammadan 
conquest  of  Persia  were  a  blank  page  in  the  intellectual  life  of 
its  people.  It  is,  on  the  contrary,  a  period  of  immense  and 
unique  interest,  of  fusion  between  the  old  and  the  new,  of 
transformation  of  forms  and  transmigration  of  ideas,  but  in  no 
wise  of  stagnation  or  death.  Politically,  it  is  true,  Persia 
ceased  for  a  while  to  enjoy  a  separate  national  existence, 
being  merged  in  that  great  Muhammadan  Empire  which 
stretched  from  Gibraltar  to  the  Jaxartes,  but  in  the  intel- 
lectual domain  she  soon  began  to  assert  the  supremacy  to 
which  the  ability  and  subtlety  of  her  people  entitled  her. 
Take  from  what  is  generally  called  Arabian  science — from 
exegesis,  tradition,  theology,  philosophy,  medicine,  lexico- 
graphy, history,  biography,  even  Arabic  grammar — the  work 
contributed  by  Persians,  and  the  best  part  is  gone.  Even  the 
forms  of  State  organisation  were  largely  adapted  from  Persian 
models.  Says  al-Fakhrf  (ed.  Ahlwardt,  p.  101),  on  the 
organisation  of  the  dlwdm  or  Government  offices1: — 

"  The  Muslims  were  the  army,  and  their  wars  were  for  the  faith, 
not  for  the  things  of  this  world,  and  there  were  never  lacking 
amongst  them  those  who  would  expend  a  fair  portion  of  their  wealth 


1  Dozy  (I'hlamisme,  p.  156)  says  :  "  Mais  la  conversion  la  plus  impor- 
tante  de  toutes  fut  celle  des  Perses  ;  ce  sont  eux,  et  non  les  Arabes,  qui 
ont  donne  de  la  fermete  et  de  la  force  a  I'islamisme,  et,  en  meme  temps, 
c'est  de  leur  sein  que  sont  sorties  les  sectes  les  plus  remarquables." 


PERSIAN  INDISPENSABLE   TO  ARABS    205 

in  charitable  uses  and  offerings,  and  who  desired  not  in  return  for 
their  faith  and  their  support  of  their  Prophet  any  recompense  save 

from  God  ;  nor  did  the  Prophet  or  Abu  Bakr  impose 
TofethfdhSnsn  on  them  any  fixed  contribution,  but  when  they 

fought  and  took  spoil,  they  took  for  themselves  a 
share  of  the  spoils  fixed  by  the  Law,  and  when  any  wealth  flowed 
into  Madina  from  any  country  it  was  brought  to  the  Prophet's 
Mosque  and  divided  according  as  he  saw  fit.  Thus  matters  con- 
tinued during  the  Caliphate  of  Abu  Bakr ;  but  in  the  year  A.H.  15 
(A.D.  636),  during  the  Caliphate  of  'Umar,  he,  seeing  how  conquest 
succeeded  conquest,  and  how  the  treasures  of  the  Persian  Kings 
were  passing  into  their  possession,  and  how  the  loads  of  gold,  silver, 
precious  stones  and  sumptuous  raiment  continually  followed  one 
another,  deemed  it  good  to  distribute  them  amongst  the  Muslims 
and  to  divide  these  riches  between  them,  but  knew  not  how  he 
should  do  or  in  what  manner  effect  this.  Now  there  was  in  Madina 
a  certain  Persian  marzubdn,  who,  seeing  'Umar's  bewilderment, 
said  to  him,  '  O  Commander  of  the  Faithful !  Verily  the  Kings  of 
Persia  had  an  institution  which  they  called  the  diwdn,  where  was 
recorded  all  their  income  and  expenditure,  nothing  being  excepted 
therefrom ;  and  there  such  as  were  entitled  to  pensions  were 
arranged  in  grades  so  that  no  error  might  creep  in.'  And  'Umar's 
attention  was  aroused,  and  he  said,  '  Describe  it  to  me.'  So  the 
marzubdn  described  it,  and  'Umar  understood,  and  instituted  the 
diwdns.  .  .  ." 

In  the  finance  department  not  only  was  the  Persian  system 
adopted,  but  the  Persian  language  and  notation  continued  to 
be  used  till  the  time  of  al-Hajjaj  b.  Yusuf  (about  A.D.  700), 
when,  as  we  learn  from  al-Baladhun  (pp.  300-301),  Salih  the 
scribe,  a  son  of  one  of  the  captives  taken  in  Sistan,  boasted  to 
Zadan,  the  son  of  Farrukh,  another  Persian,  who  held  the 
position  of  chief  scribe  and  accountant  in  the  Revenue  Office 
of  Sawad  (Chaldaea),  that  he  could,  if  he  pleased,  keep  the 
accounts  wholly  in  Arabic  ;  which  al-Hajjaj,  to  whom  his 
words  were  reported,  ordered  him  to  do.  "  May  God  cut  off 
thy  stock  from  the  world,"  exclaimed  Zadan's  son  Mardan- 
shdh,  "  even  as  thou  hast  cut  the  roots  of  the  Persian  tongue ;  " 
and  he  was  offered,  but  refused,  100,000  dirhams  if  he  would 
declare  himself  unable  to  effect  this  transference.  At  this 


206  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

time,  indeed,  a  strong  effort  was  made  by  '  Abdu'l-Malik, 
seconded  by  his  ferocious  but  able  lieutenant  al-Hajjaj,  to 
repress  and  curtail  the  foreign  influences,  Persian  and  Byzantine, 
which  were  already  so  strongly  at  work,  and  to  expel  non- 
Arabs  from  the  Government  offices,  but  the  attempt  resulted 
only  in  a  partial  and  temporary  success.1 

Meanwhile,  as  has  been  already  pointed  out,  Zoroastrianism, 
though  cast  down  from  its  position  of  a  State  religion,  by  no 
means  disappeared  from  Persia,  and  the  bands  of  exiles  who 
fled  before  the  Arab  invasion  first  to  the  islands  of  the  Persian 
Gulf  and  then  to  India,  where  they  founded  the  Pars!  colonies 
which  still  flourish  in  and  about  Bombay  and  Surat,  were  but  a 
minority  of  those  who  still  preferred  Zoroaster  to  Muhammad 
and  the  A  vesta  to  the  Qur'dn.  Pahlawi  literature,  as  we  have 
seen,  continued  side  by  side  with  the  new  Arabic  literature 
produced  by  the  Persian  converts  to  Islam  ;  the  high  priests  or 
the  Magian  faith  were  still  persons  of  importance,  in  pretty 
constant  communication  with  the  Government  officials,  and 
still  enjoying  a  large  amount  of  influence  amongst  their 
co-religionists,  to  whom  was  granted  a  considerable  measure  of 
self-government  ; 2  and  the  fire-temples,  even  when  laws  were 
promulgated  ordering  their  destruction,  were  in  practice 
seldom  molested,  while  severe  punishment  was  sometimes 
inflicted  by  the  Muhammadan  authorities  on  persons  whom 
an  indiscreet  zeal  led  to  injure  or  destroy  them.3  5  Three 
centuries  after  the  Arab  Conquest  fire-temples  still  existed  in 
almost  every  Persian  province,  though  at  the  present  day, 
according  to  the  carefully  compiled  statistics  of  Houtum- 
Schindler, 4  the  total  number  of  "fire-worshippers"  in  Persia 
only  amounts  to  about  8,500.  According  to  Khanikof 
(Memoir  e  sur  la  part'ie  meridionale  de  I'Asie  Centrale^  p.  193),  at 

1  See  A.  von  Kremer's  Culturgeschichte  d.  Orients,  vol.  i,  pp.  166-183. 
a  Ibid.,  vol.  i,  p.  183. 

3  Cf.  Arnold's  Preaching  of  Islam,  p.  179. 

4  Die  Parsen  in  Pcrsien,  in  the  Z.  D.  M.  G.  for  1882,  vol.  xxxvi,  pp.  54-88. 
The  actual  number  of  fire-temples  he  gives  as  twenty-three. 


SURVIVAL   OF  "FIRE    WORSHIP''        207 

the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  when  Aghi  Muhammad 
Khdn,  founder  of  the  present  QajaY  dynasty,  laid  siege  to 
Kirman,  it  alone  contained  12,000  Zoroastrian  families;  so  that 
the  rapid  diminution  of  their  numbers  must  be  regarded  as  a 
phenomenon  of  modern  times,  though  lately,  if  reliance  can  be 
placed  on  the  figures  of  earlier  observers  quoted  by  Houtum- 
Schindler,  they  appear  to  have  been  again  gaining  ground. 

"In  the  face  of  such  facts,"  says  Arnold  (op.  laud.,  pp.  180-181), 
"  it  is  surely  impossible  to  attribute  the  decay  of  Zoroastrianism  to 
violent  conversions  made  by  the  Muslim  conquerors.  The  number 
of  Persians  who  embraced  Islam  in  the  early  days  of  the  Arab  rule 
was  probably  very  large  from  the  various  reasons  given  above,  but 
the  late  survival  of  their  ancient  faith  and  the  occasional  record  of 
conversions  in  the  course  of  successive  centuries,  render  it  probable 
that  the  acceptance  of  Islam  was  both  peaceful  and  voluntary. 
About  the  close  of  the  eighth  century  Saman,  a  noble  of  Balkh, 
having  received  assistance  from  Asad  ibn  'Abdu'llah,  the  governor 
of  Khurasan,  renounced  Zoroastrianism,  embraced  Islam,  and  named 
his  son  Asad  after  his  protector  :  it  is  from  this  convert  that  the- 
dynasty  of  the  Samanids  (A.D.  874-999)  took  its  name.  About  the 
beginning  of  the  ninth  century  Karim  ibn  Shahriyar  was  the  first 
King  of  the  Qabusiyya  dynasty  who  became  a  Musalman,  and  in 
•A.D.  873  a  large  number  of  fire-worshippers  were  converted  to  Islam 
in  Daylam  through  the  influence  of  Nasiru'1-Haqq  Abu  Muhammad. 
In  the  following  century,  about  A.D.  912,  Hasan  b.  'All  of  the  'Alid 
dynasty  on  the  southern  shore  of  the  Caspian  Sea,  who  is  said  to 
have  been  a  man  of  learning  and  intelligence,  and  well  acquainted 
with  the  religious  opinions  of  different  sects,  invited  the  inhabitants 
of  Tabaristan  and  Daylam,  who  were  partly  idolaters  and  partly 
Magians,  to  accept  Islam  ;  many  of  them  responded  to  his  call, 
while  others  persisted  in  their  former  state  of  unbelief.  In  the  year 
A.H.  394  (A.D.  1003-4),  a  famous  poet,  Abu'l-Hasan  Mihyar,  a  native 
of  Daylam,  who  had  been  a  fire- worshipper,  was  converted  to  Islam 
by  a  still  more  famous  poet,  the  Sharif  ar-Rida,  who  was  his  master 
in  the  poetic  art.1  Scanty  as  these  notices  of  conversions  are,  yet  the 


1  Like  another  yet  more  notable  convert  from  Zoroastrianism,  the 
celebrated  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa',  Mihyar  appears  to  have  been  a  bad  Muslim. 
Of  the  former  the  Caliph  al-Mahdi  used  to  say,  "  I  never  found  a  book  on 
Zindiqa  (i.e.,  heresy,  especially  of  Manichoean  character)  which  did  not 


208  THE  ARAB  INVASION 

very  fact  that  such  can  be  found  up  to  three  centuries  and  *  half 
after  the  Muslim  Conquest  is  clear  testimony  to  the  toleration  the 
Persians  enjoyed,  and  argues  that  their  conversion  to  Islam  was 
peaceful,  and,  to  some  extent  at  least,  gradual." 

For  a  time,  however,  the  intellectual  as  well  as  the  political 
life  of  Persia  and  Arabia  were  so  closely  connected  and  even 
identified  with  each  other  that  in  the  next  chapters,  dealing 
with  the  evolution  of  Islam  and  the  origin  of  its  principal 
sects  and  schools  of  thought  under  the  Umayyad  and  'Abbasid 
Caliphs,  it  will  be  necessary  to  speak  of  the  two  together,  and 
to  treat  of  some  matters  more  closely  connected  with  the  lattei 
than  with  the  former. 

owe  its  origin  to  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa'."  To  the  latter  al-Qasim  ibn  Burhan 
remarked,  on  hearing  of  his  conversion,  "  By  becoming  a  Musulman  you 
have  merely  passed, from  one  corner  of  hell  to  another  "  (Ibn  Khallikan, 
de  Slane's  translation,  vol.  i,  p.  432  ;  vol.  iii,  p.  517). 


CHAPTER  VI 

THE    UMAYYAD    PERIOD    (A.D.    661-749) 

THE    period    of  the  Caliphate   (Khilafai)   began  when   Abu 
Bakr   succeeded    the  Prophet  as    his  Khalifa   (Caliph,    vice- 
gerent, or  vicar)  in  Tune.   A.D.   672  ;  and  ended 

Definition  of  the    B  '.  '       0  J.r    .,      .     ...   , 

period  of  the  when,  in  A.D.  1 250,  Hulagu  Khan,  at  the  head 
of  his  Mongol  hordes,  seized  and  sacked  Baghdad, 
and  put  to  death  the  last  Caliph,  al-Musta'sim  bi'lldh. 
The  title,  it  is  true,  was,  as  Sir  Edward  Creasy  says,1 
"  perpetuated  for  three  centuries  longer  in  eighteen  descendants 
of  the  House  of  lAbbds,  who  dwelt  in  Egypt  with  titular 
pomp,  but  no  real  power,  in  the  capital  of  the  Mameluke 
rulers,  like  the  descendants  of  the  Great  Mogul  in  British 
India,"  until  A.D.  1517,  when  the  Ottoman  Sultan  Selim  the 
First,  having  overthrown  the  Mameluke  dynasty,  induced  the 
puppet-Caliph  to  transfer  to  him  the  title  and  visible  insignia 
of  the  Caliphate,  the  sacred  standard,  sword,  and  mantle  of  the 
Prophet.  Since  that  time  the  Ottoman  Sultans  claim  "  the 
sacred  position  of  Caliph,  Vicar  of  the  Prophet  of  God, 
Commander  of  the  Faithful,  and  Supreme  Imdm  of  Isldm  "  ; 
but  whatever  advantage  they  may  derive  from  these  high  titles, 

1  History  of  the  Ottoman  Turks,  London,  1877,  p.  150. 

1 5  3°9 


210  THE  OMAYYAD  PERIOD 

the  Caliphate,  as  a  historical  actuality,  ceased  to  exist,  after 
enduring  626  years,  in  A.D.   I258.1 

This  period  falls  into  three  well-marked  but  very  unequal 
divisions,  viz.  : — 

i.  That  of  the  Orthodox  Caliphs   (al-Khulafa  it  r-Rdshidini)  Abu 
Bakr,  'Umar,  'Uthman,  and  'All  (632-661  A.D.),  which  may  be  briefly 
characterised  as  the  Theocracy  of  Islam. 

2-  That  of  the  Umayyad  Caliphs  (or  Kings,  for  the 
spiritual  rank  of  Caliph  is  often  denied  to  them  by 
later  Muslim  historians),  the.Z?a;m  Umayya,  who,  fourteen  in  number, 
ruled  from  A.D.  661  to  749.  This  may  be  denned  as  the  period  of 
Arabian  Imperialism  and  Pagan  Reaction. 

3.  That  of  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs,  the  Banu'l-'Abbds,  thirty-seven 
in  number,  who  held  sway  from  A.D.  749,  when,  on  October  3oth, 
Abu'l-'Abbas  'Abdu'llah,  called  as-Saffdh,  "  the  Siiedder  of  Blood," 
was  proclaimed  Caliph  at  Kufa,  till  the  sack  of  Baghdad  and  murder 
of  al-Musta'sim  by  Hulagii  and  his  Mongols  in  A.D.  1258.  This  may 
be  denned  as  the  period  of  Persian  Ascendancy,  and  of  Philosophical 
and  Cosmopolitan  Islam. 

During  the  first  period,  Madma  was  the  centre  ot  govern- 
ment ;    during    the   second,    Damascus ;    during    the    third, 
Baghdad.    The  Mongol  Invasion  of  the  thirteenth 
rnh\eastonnthl     century,   and    the   destruction    of  the    Caliphate 
pfu*finUthTgin-  which  it  entailed,  put  an  end  to  the  formal  unity 
at in°the  political  of  the  Muhammadan  Empire  in  the  East  and  the 

history  of  Islam.          ,  .  r    T  i  f  i     •        i          r  i 

palmy  days  or  Islam,  and  is  by  far  the  most 
important  event  in  the  history  of  Asia  since  the  time  of  the 
Prophet  Muhammad.  Long  before  this  catastrophe,  indeed, 
the  power  of  the  Caliphate  had  been  reduced  to  a  mere  shadow 
of  what  it  was  in  what  Tennyson  calls  "  the  golden  prime  of 
good  Haroun  Alraschid "  ;  but,  though  the  Empire  of  the 
Caliphs  was  for  the  most  part  portioned  out  amongst  dynasties 
and  rulers  whose  allegiance,  when  yielded  at  all,  was  as  a  rule 
the  merest  lip-service,  Baghdad  remained  until  that  fatal  day 

1  Cf.  Sir  William  Muir's  very  just  remarks  at  p.  594  of  his  Calipliate . 
its  decline^  and  Fall. 


THE  CALIPHATE  211 

the  metropolis  of  Islam  and  the  centre  of  learning  and  culture, 
while  Arabic  maintained  its  position  not  only  as  the  language 
of  diplomacy  and  learning,  but  of  polite  society  and  belles 
lettres.  The  scientific  and  critical  spirit  which  we  so  admire 
in  Muhammadan  writers  antecedent  to  the  Mongol  period 
becomes  rapidly  rarer  in  the  succeeding  years,  and  hence  it  is 
that  Persian  literature  (that  is,  the  literature  written  in  the 
Persian  language),  which  falls  for  the  most  part  in  the  later 
days  of  the  Caliphate  and  in  the  period  subsequent  to  its  fall, 
cannot,  for  all  its  beauties,  compare  in  value  or  interest  with 
that  literature  which,  though  written  in  Arabic,  was  to  a  large 
extent  the  product  of  non-Arab  and  especially  Persian  minds. 
The  Mongol  invasion  was  not  less  an  intellectual  than  a 
political  disaster,  and  a  difference,  not  only  of  degree  but  of 
kind,  is  to  be  observed  between  what  was  written  and  thought 
before  and  after  it. 

To  write  a  detailed  history  of  the  Caliphs  forms  no  part  of 
the  plan  on  which  this  book  is  conceived,  especially  as  this  has 
already  been  admirably  done  in  German  by  Dr.  Gustav  Weil 
(1846-1862)  and  in  English  by  Sir  William  Muir.1  Nor, 
indeed,  are  these  excellent  works  amongst  the  European  sources 
on  which  we  shall  chiefly  draw  in  endeavouring  to  delineate  in 
broad  outlines  the  characteristics  of  each  period,  especially  as 
regards  its  Persian  manifestations  in  the  fields  of  religious  and 
philosophical  speculation,  culture,  politics,  and  science.  For 
this  purpose  the  most  valuable  and  suggestive  books  written 
in  European  languages  are  the  following  :  A.  von  Kremer's 
Geschichte  der  herrschenden  Ideen  des  Islams  (1868);  Idem, 
Culturgeschichtliche  Streifziige  auf  dem  Gebtete  des  Islams  (1873) ; 
Idem,  Culturgeschichte  des  Orients  unter  dem  Chalifen  (2  vols., 
1875-1877)  ;  Dozy's  Het  Islam  (1863)  translated  into  French 
by  Victor  Chauvin  under  the  title  Essal  sur  VHistoire  de 
fldamhme  (1879);  Idem,  Histoire  des  Musulmans  d'Espagne; 

1  Annals  of  the  Early  Caliphate  (1883);  the  Caliphate,  its  Rise,  Decline, 
and  Fall  (1891  and  1892)  ;  also  the  Life  of  Mahomet,  Mahomet  and  Islam,  &c. 


THE  OMAYYAD  PERIOD 

Goldziher's  Muhammedanhche  Studien  (2  vols.,  1889-1890)  ; 
Van  Vloten's  Recherches  sur  la  Domination  arabe^  le  Chiitisme  et 
les  Croyances  Messianiques  sous  le  Khalifat  des  Omayades  ( 1 894)  ; 
Idem,  Opkomst  der  Abbasiden ;  T.  W.  Arnold's  Preaching  of 
Islam  (1896),  and  other  similar  works  by  Caussin  de  Perceval, 
Schmolders,  Dugat,  &c.,  to  which  must  be  added  numerous 
valuable  monographs,  such  as  those  of  Briinnow  on  the 
Kharijites,  Goldziher  on  the  Zahirites,  de  Goeje  on  the 
Carmathians,  Steiner  on  the  Mu'tazilites,  Spitta  on  the  School 
of  al-Ash'arf,  and  many  others. 

In  the  two  histories  of  Persia  with  which  Englishmen  are 
most  familiar,  those  of  Sir  John  Malcolm  and  Clements 
Markham,  the  transition  period  intervening  between  the  Arab 
Conquest  in  the  seventh  century  of  our  era,  and  the  formation 
of  the  first  independent  or  semi-independent  post-Muhammadan 
Persian  dynasties  in  the  ninth,  is  rather  cursorily  and 
inadequately  treated,  as  though,  like  the  period  which  separates 
the  fall  of  the  Achaemenian  from  the  rise  of  the  Sasanian 
dynasties  (B.C.  330 — A.D.  226),  it  were  a  mere  interruption  of 
the  national  life,  instead  of  being,  as  in  many  ways  it  actually 
was,  the  most  interesting,  and  intellectually,  the  most  fruitful 
of  all  the  periods  into  which  Persian  history  can  be 
divided.  For  this  reason  it  will  here  be  discussed  with  some 
fulness,  especially  in  what  concerns  the  origin  of  the  first  sects 
whereby  Islam  was  torn  asunder. 

Although  the  Umayyad  Caliphate,  strictly  speaking,  began 
with  the  death  of  'Ali  and  the  accession  of  Mu'awiya  in 
A.D.  66 1,  the  tendencies  which  led  to  its  establishment  go 
back  to  the  rule  of  'Uthman  (A.D.  644-656),  the  third  of 
the  four  "  Orthodox  Caliphs."  We  have  seen  that  the 
creation  of  a  common  national  feeling  amongst  the  Arabs, 
nay  more,  of  a  common  religious  feeling  among  all  Muslims, 
in  place  of  the  narrow  clannishness  of  the  heathen  Arabs,  was 
one  of  the  greatest  and  most  notable  results  of  the  Prophet's 


THE  PROPHET'S  ACHIEVEMENT       213 

mission.  But  such  counsels  of  perfection  were  from  the  first 
hard  to  follow,  being  too  radically  opposed  to  ancient  and 
deeply-rooted  national  instincts,  and  even  the  Prophet's 
partiality  for  Mecca,  his  native  city,  and  the  Quraysh,  his 
own  tribe,  had  on  several  occasions  given  rise  to  some  dis- 
content and  murmuring  on  the  part  of  his  allies  of  Madina  (the 
dnsdr^  or  "  Helpers")  to  whose  timely  aid  his  cause  owed  so 
much.  Still,  on  the  whole,  this  ideal  of  equality  amongst  alf 
Muslims  was  fairly  maintained  until  the  death  of  4Umar  in 
A.D.  644.  That  it  was  the  ideal  is  apparent  from  numerous 
passages  both  in  the  Qur'an  and  in  Tradition,  such  as  "  the 
noblest  of  you  in  the  sight  of  God  is  he  who  most  feareth 
God  "  (J3>wr'J«,  xlix,  13)  ;  "  the  believers  are  but  brethren,  so 
make  peace  between  your  two  brothers"  (j^wr'Jw,  xlix,  10)  ; 
"  O  man  !  God  hath  taken  away  from  you  the  arrogance 
of  heathen  days  and  the  ancient  pride  in  ancestry  ;  an  Arab 
hath  no  other  precedence  over  a  barbarian  than  by  virtue  of 
the  fear  of  God  ;  ye  are  all  the  progeny  or  Adam,  and  Adam 
himself  is  of  the  earth  "  (Tradition). z  At  this  time,  it  is  true, 
there  were  but  a  very  few  non-Arabs  or  "  barbarians  "  who 
had  embraced  Islam,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether,  even  in  his 
moments  of  greatest  optimism,  the  Prophet  ever  dreamed  of 
his  religion  extending  much  beyond  the  Arabian  peninsula ; 
but  here  at  least  is  the  idea,  clearly  expressed,  of  a  potential 
equality  amongst  believers,  and  an  aristocracy  not  of  birth  but 
of  faith. 

With  the  accession  of  'Uthman,  however,  the  old  nepotism 
and  clannish  feeling  once  more  became  very  evident  ;  and 
dangers  of  sedition  and  schism,  already  imminent  by  reason 
of  the  jealousies  between  Mecca  and  Madfna,  between  the 
Muhajirun  ("Exiles")  and  the  Ans&r  ("Helpers"),  between 
the  Hashimite  and  Umayyad  factions  of  the  Prophet's  tribe 
of  Quraysh,  and  between  this  tribe  and  the  other  Arabs,  who 
regarded  its  ascendancy  with  ill-concealed  discontent,  were 
1  See  von  Kremer's  Streifzuge,  p.  22 


214 

brought  to  a  head  by  the  new  Caliph's  irresolution  and 
weakness,  obstinacy,  and  undisguised  furtherance  of  the 
interests  of  his  Umayyad  kinsmen,  even  of  those  whose 
attachment  to  Islam  was  most  open  to  doubt.  To  make 
clearer  what  follows,  two  genealogical  tables  from  Stanley 
Lane-Poole's  most  useful  manual  on  the  Muhammadan  Dynasties 
(1894)  are  here  inserted.  Of  these,  the  first  shows  the  sub- 
divisions of  the  tribe  of  Quraysh  and  the  general  connection 
of  the  lines  of  Caliphs. 

QURAYSH 

Abd  Manaf 
I 


Hashim  'Abd  Shams 

'Abdu'l-Muttalib  Umayya 

|  j  I  'UTHMAN  and  the 

•UMAR  And  BAKR    'Abdu'llah          Abu  Talib       'Abbas  UI.IAYYADS 


MUHAM-     'A'isha     =    MUHAMMAD  THE 
MAD  PROPHET 

_  I 


'ABBASIDS 


/      Ruqavya  Fatima     »      'ALI    —    al-Hanafiyya 

•UTHMAN  «•  \         and  _  [  | 

I  Umm  Kulthum        ]  j    Mubammad  Ibnul-Hanafiyya 

al-tfasan  al-Husayn 

SHI'ITE  IMAMS, 
FATI.MID  CALIPHS,  &c. 

From  this  table  we  see  that  of  the  four  "  Orthodox  Caliphs," 
the  two  first,  Abu  Bakr  and  cUmar,  were  the  Prophet's  fathers- 
in-law,  while  the  two  last,  'Uthman  and  CAH,  were  both  his 
sons-in-law  ;  but  that  'AH  alone  was  closely  related  by  blood, 
he  being  Muhammad's  first  cousin,  in  addition  to  which  he 
was  distinguished  by  his  early  and  devoted  adhesion  to  the 
Faith.  We  also  see  (and  the  importance  of  this  fact  will 
appear  in  the  next  chapter)  that  the  term  Hashimite,  or 
descendant  of  Hashim,  is  equally  applicable  to  the  Shi'ite 
Imams  descended  from  CAH  and  the  Prophet's  daughter  Fatima, 
and  to  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs,  but  excludes  the  Umayyads. 

The  second  table  shows  the  relation  of  the  Umayyad 
Caliphs  to  one  another  and  to  4Uthmdn. 


CALIPHATE  OF  'UTHMAN  215 

UMAYYA 


Abul-'Aj 

Harb 

Abu  Sufyan 
I.  Mu'awiya  I 

x  Yazid  I 
1 
3.  Mu'awiya  II 

'Affaa 
UTHMAN 

Hakam 

4.  Mar  w.i  n  I 

Muhammad 

5.  'Abdul-Malik               'Abdu'l-'Azb 

14.  Mat  w.i  n  II         | 
6.  Walid 
1 

|       '                              |         8.  'Umar  II 
I    7.  Sulayman    9.  Yazid  II  10.  Hisham. 

12.  Yazid  III 

|               n.  \\alidll    Muawiya 

13.  Ibrahim                                   1.  , 
'Abdu  r-Rahman 

UMAYYADS  OF  SPAIN. 

From  the  very  beginning  of  his  reign  'Uthman  showed 
a  tendency  to  favour  his  friends  and  kinsmen  at  the  expense 
and  to  the  detriment  of  that  rigid  and  unswerving  justice 
which  Islam  had  set  up  as  its  ideal.  That  Abu  Liilu'a,  the 
Persian  slave  who  had  assassinated  'Umar  the  late  Caliph, 
should  suffer  the  penalty  of  death  was  natural  enough  ;  but 
'Umar's  son,  'Ubaydu'llah,  not  content  with  slaying  the 
assassin,  also  slew  a  Persian  noble  named  Hurmuzan,  a  captive 
of  war  who  had  made  profession  of  Islam,  because  he  suspected 
him  of  complicity.  Of  such  complicity  there  was  no  proof, 
and  'All,  ever  rigorous  in  upholding  the  laws  of  Islam,  held 
that  'Ubaydu'llah  should  be  put  to  death,  as  having  slain 
a  believer  without  due  cause.  'Uthman,  however,  would  not 
hear  of  this,  but  instead  named  a  monetary  compensation, 
which  he  himself  paid  ;x  and  when  Ziyad  b.  Labfd,  one  of 
the  Ansar,  upbraided  him  in  verse  2  for  his  misplaced  leniency, 
he  silenced  and  expelled  the  over-bold  poet. 

Thus  from  the  very  moment  of  his  accession  'Uthmain's 
readiness  to  be  swayed  by  personal  considerations  was  apparent, 
but  it  became  much  more  conspicuous  as  time  went  on.  The 

1  Muir's  Caliphate,  p.  205. 

•  The  verses  will  be  found  in  de  Goejc's  ed.  of  T^ari,  Ser.  I,  vol.  v, 
p.  2796. 


2l6 

Arabs  in  general  were  embittered  against  the  tribe  of  Quraysh, 
whose  supremacy  they  watched  with  growing  jealousy  ;  and 
now  'Uthman's  open  partiality  for  the  Umayyad  branch  of 
that  tribe,  which  had  strenuously  and  bitterly  opposed  the 
Prophet  so  long  as  opposition  was  possible,  and  had  only 
made  a  tardy  and  unwilling  profession  of  Islam  when  it 
could  no  longer  be  resisted,  thoroughly  alienated  the  Hashi- 
mite  branch,  so  that  even  Quraysh  was  no  longer  united. 
Some  of  the  most  inveterate  enemies  of  the  Prophet,  such 
as  Abu  Sarh,  'Uthman's  foster-brother,  whom  Muhammad 
would  have  put  to  death  on  the  capture  of  Mecca  but  for 
'Uthman's  intercession,  were  raised  to  the  highest  commands 
and  enriched  with  the  most  princely  salaries.  Men  notoriously 
lax  in  their  religious  duties,  like  Walid  b.  'Uqba,  whose  father 
had  been  put  to  death  by  the  Prophet  after  the  battle  of  Badr 
with  a  "  promise  of  hell-fire,"  and  Sa'id  b.  al-As,  whose  father 
was  slain  at  the  same  battle  in  the  ranks  of  the  heathen,  were 
given  rich  governments.  Walid,  to  whom  the  government  ot 
Kufa  was  given,  came  drunk  to  the  mosque,  said  the  wrong 
prayers,  and  then  asked  the  congregation  whether  they  had 
had  enough,  or  would  like  some  more.  He  was  ot  course 
dismissed,  but  the  further  chastisement  ordained  by  Islam  was 
only  inflicted  by  'All's  insistence  against  'Uthman's  wish. 
Ibn  'Amir,  the  Caliph's  young  cousin,  was  made  governor 
of  Basra,  on  hearing  which  the  old  governor,  Abu  Musa, 
whom  he  had  supplanted,  said,  "  Now  ye  will  have  a  tax- 
gatherer  to  your  heart's  content,  rich  in  cousins,  aunts,  and 
uncles,  who  will  flood  you  with  his  harpies." x  Sa'id  b.  al-'As, 
the  new  governor  of  Kufa,  was  as  bad  as  his  predecessor,  so  that 
the  people  murmured  and  said,  "One  of  Quraysh  succeedeth 
another  as  governor,  the  last  no  better  than  the  first.  It  is  but 
out  of  the  frying-pan  into  the  fire." 

The  growing  discontent  had  other  grounds,  which  led  to 
the  alienation  of  many  old  Companions  of  the  Prophet  remark- 
1  Muir's  Calij>hatet  p.  217. 


MURDER   OF  'UTHAlAN  217 

able  for  their  piety  and  ascetic  life.     Ibn  Mas'ud,  one  of  the 
greatest  authorities  on  the  text  of  the  Qur'an,  was  deeply  of- 
fended by  'Uthman's  high-handed  recension  of  the 

Assassination  of     TTIT>I  j  -IILL-I 

•uthman  in  Holy  rJook,  and  more  particularly  by  his  destruc- 
tion of  all  "  unauthorised  versions."  Abu  Dharr, 
who  preached  the  equality  of  all  believers  and  denounced  the 
growing  luxury,  was  driven  into  exile,  where  he  died.  * 
Innovators,  for  which  no  good  reason  beyond  the  Caliph's 
will  was  assigned,  added  to  the  rising  flood  of  disaffection, 
which  culminated  in  the  cruel  murder  of  the  aged  Caliph 
by  a  band  of  malcontents,  in  the  women's  apartments  of 
his  own  house,  in  the  holy  city  of  Madfna,  on  June  17, 
A.D.  656.  His  wife  Na'ila,  faithful  to  the  last,  attempted  to 
ward  off  with  her  hand  a  blow  aimed  at  him  by  one  of  th*e 
assassins,  whereby  several  of  her  fingers  were  cut  off.  These 
fingers,  together  with  the  blood-stained  shirt  of  the  aged 
Caliph,  were  afterwards  exhibited  by  Mu'awiya  in  the  mosque 
of  Damascus,  in  order  to  arouse  the  anger  of  the  Syrians  against 
the  murderers.3 

The  death  of  'Uthmdn  destroyed  once  and  for  all  the  out- 
ward semblance  of  unity  which  had  hitherto  existed  in  Islam, 
and  led  directly  to  wars  wherein  for  the  first  time 
ACai'ipChed      tne  sword  was  turned  by  Muslims  against  their 
fellow -believers.      'Ali    was    at    length    chosen 
Caliph — a  tardy  recognition,  as  many  thought,  of  his  well- 
founded    claims    to    that   high  office — to    the   disappointment 
of  Talha  and  Zubayr,  who,  incited  by  'A'isha,  the  daughter 
of  Abu  Bakr  and  widow  of  the  Prophet,  revolted  against  him 
and   paid   for  their  presumption  with   their  lives 
BatcaemeLhe     at  tne  Battle  of  the  Camel,  wherein  ten  thousand 
Muslims  perished    (December,   A.D.   656).     *Ali 
himself  was  most  anxious  to  avoid  this  carnage,  but  just  when 

1  For  a  full  account  of    this  transaction,  see  Mas'iidi's  Muruju'dh- 
Dhahab,  ed.  Barbier  de  Meynard,  vol.  iv,  pp.  268-274. 
3  Al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt),  p.  no 


218  THE    UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

his  efforts  at  conciliation  seemed  crowned  with  success  the 
murderers  of  'Uthman,  who  were  included  in  his  army, 
fearing  lest  punishment  might  fall  upon  them  if  peace  were 
restored,  succeeded  in  precipitating  the  battle. 

Worse  trouble,  however,  was  impending  in   Syria,  where 

4Uthmdn's  kinsman  Mu'awiya  was  governor,  and  where  the 

Umayyad  influence  and    interest   were  supreme. 

refuses  to       cAliy  refusing  to  listen  to  those  who  advised  him 

•A^cLlfph.     not  to  interfere  with  this  powerful  and  cunning 

governor,  persisted    in    his  intention  of  at   once 

recalling  him  from  his  post.     Mu'awiya  refused  to  obey  the 

summons,  and   retaliated   by  roundly  accusing  'All  of  being 

privy  to  'Uthman's  murder,  a  charge  which  had  been  already 

formulated   by  Walid  b.  'Uqba  (who,  as  we  have  seen,  had 

suffered  punishment  at  'All's  hands),  in  some  verses 1  addressed 

to  the  Hashimites  in  general,  which  conclude  : — 

"  Ye  have  betrayed  him  ('Uthman)  in  order  that  ye  might  take  Ins  place, 
Even  as  once  Kisrd  (Khusraw  Parwiz)  was  betrayed  bv  his  satraps." 

Mu'awiya,  therefore,  posing  as  the  avenger  of  'Uthman,  not 
merely  refused  to  obey  'All,  or  to  acknowledge  him  as  Caliph, 
but  himself  laid  claim  to  this  title,  a  pretension  in  which  he 
was  ably  supported  by  the  astute  'Amr  ibnu'l-'As,  to  whom, 
as  the  reward  of  his  services,  he  promised  the  government 
of  Egypt.  All  negotiations  having  failed,  'Ali,  who  had  left 
Madina  and  established  himself  at  Kufa,  declared  war  on 
Mu'awiya  and  his  Syrians,  and,  with  an  army  of  fifty  thousand 
men,  marched  against  him.  The  two  armies  met 

Battle  of  Siffi'n.  ? 

at  Siffin,  a  place  lying  between  Aleppo  and  hmesa 
(Hims)  in  Syria,  and  after  several  weeks  of  desultory  skir- 
mishing and  fruitless  negotiations,  a  pitched  battle  was  fought 
in  the  lafct  days  of  July,  A.D.  657.  On  the  third  day  victory 
inclined  decisively  to  'All's  side,  when  'Amr  ibnu'l-'As,  ever 
fertile  in  stratagems,  counselled  Mu'dwiya  to  bid  his  troops 
1  Mas'udi,  op.  cit.,  p.  286. 


AND  MU'AWIYA  219 

raise  aloft  on  their  lances  leaves  of  the  Qur'dn,  and  cry,  "The 
Law  of  God  !  The  Law  of  God  !  Let  that  arbitrate  between 
us  !  "  In  vain  did  4AIi  warn  his  followers  against  this  device, 
and  urge  them  to  follow  up  their  advantage  ;  the  fanatical 
puritans  who  formed  the  backbone  of  his  army  refused  to  fight 
against  men  who  appealed  to  the  Qur'an  ;  a  truce  was  called  ; 
arbitration  was  accepted  by  both  parties  ;  and  even  here  'All 
was  forced  to  accept  as  his  representative  the  feeble  and 
irresolute  Abu  Musi  al-Ash'ari,  whom  he  had  but  lately 
dismissed  for  his  lukewarmness  from  the  government  of 
Kiifa,  while  Mu'awiya's  cause  was  committed  to  the  wily 
and  resourceful  'Amr  ibnu'l-'As,  who,  by  another  discreditable 
trick,1  succeeded  in  getting  'All  set  aside  and 
ciahiieifcaMph,  Mu'awiya  declared  Caliph.  This  took  place  at 


Dawmatu'l-Jandal  (a  place  in  the  Syrian  desert 
just  south  of  the  thirtieth  degree  of  latitude,  and  about  equi- 
distant from  Damascus  and  Basra),  in  February,  A.D.  658. 

On  the  disappointment  and  disgust  of  'All  and  his  followers 
it  is  needless  to  dwell.     A  daily  commination  service,  wherein 

Mu'awiya  and  his  allies  were  solemnly  anathe- 

Ah's  position.  J  ... 

matised  by  name,  was  instituted  in  the  mosques 
of  'Irdq,  which  province  still  remained  more  or  less  faithful 
to  'All  ;  and  Mu'awiya  returned  the  compliment  at  Damascus, 
where  the  cursing  of  'All,  his  sons  and  adherents,  remained  in 
force  till  it  was  abolished  by  'Umar  II,  almost  the  only  God- 
fearing ruler  of  the  whole  Umayyad  dynasty.  Nor  did  'Ali 
rest  content  with  mere  curses  ;  he  began  to  prepare  for  another 
campaign  against  his  rival,  when  other  grave  events  nearer 
home  demanded  his  attention. 

'All's  followers  included,  besides  personal  friends  and  retainers, 

political  schemers,  and  the  factious  and  unsteady  in- 
^^orc0^    habitants  of  Basra  and  Kufa,  two  parties,  diametri- 

cally opposed   in  their  Views,  which  represented 

1  See  Muir's  Caliphate,  pp.  280-282  ;    al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt),  pp. 
111-114. 


220  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

the  two  most  ancient  sects  of  Isldm,    the  Shi'ites,    and   the 

Kharijites.     The  former  were  the  devoted  partisans  of  *Ali, 

the  "Faction  "  (ShPa]  of  him  and  his  House,  the  defenders  in 

general  of  the  theory  which  has  been  exposed  at 

The  Shi'ites.  ,       ,  -    ,  . 

pp.  130  et  seqq.^  and  which  we  may  briefly  define  as 
jthe  theory  of  the  Divine  Right  of  the  Prophet's  descendants 
and  nearest  of  kin  to  wield  the  supreme  authority  in  Islam, 
/both  temporal  and  spiritual.  Of  these,  and  of  the  fantastic 
doctrines  propounded  and  maintained  by  the  more  extreme 
amongst  them,  we  shall  have  to  speak  repeatedly  in  the 
following  pages,  and  will  only  add  here  that  these  extreme 
views  as  to  the  sanctity,  nay,  divinity,  of  'All  had,  even  during 
his  lifetime,  and  in  spite  of  his  strong  disapprobation,  found  a 
vigorous  exponent  in  the  converted  Jew,  'Abdu'llah  ibn  Sabd,1 
who-carried  on  a  propaganda  in  Egypt  as  early  as  A.D.  653, 
during  the  Caliphate  of 'Uthman. 

The  Kharijites  (Khawarij\  "  Seceders,"^  or  (as  Muir  calls 
them)  "Theocratic  Separatists,"  represented  the  extreme  demo- 
cratic view  that  any  free   Arab  was  eligible  for 

TheKhawarij.      -p,    ~-*~***  J  » 

election  as  Caliph,  and  that  any  Caliph  who 
ceased  to  give  satisfaction  to  the  commonwealth  of  believers 
might  be  deposed.3  Their  ranks  were  chiefly  recruited  from 
the  true  Arabs  of  the  desert  (especially  certain  important  tribes 

1  See  Muir,  op.  laud.,  pp.  225-226 ;  Shahristani's  Kitdbu'l-Milal  (ed. 
Cureton),  pp.  132-133- 

3  Briinnow,  however  (op.  laud.,  p.  28),  considers  that  this  title  was 
originally  assumed  by  these  sectaries  themselves,  not  given  to  them  hy 
their  enemies,  and  that  it  does  not  imply  rebellion  and  secession,  but,  like 
Mnhdjimn  (another  name  assumed  by  the  Kharijites,  means  simply  exiles 
from  their  homes  for  God's  sake.  He  refers  especially  to  Qur'an,  iv,  101  in 
support  of  this  view. 

3  At  a  later  date  these  two  cardinal  tenets  were  further  expanded  by 
the  more  fanatical  Kharijites  by  the  substitution  in  this  formula  of  "good 
Muslim  "  for  "  free  Arab,"  and  the  addition  of  the  words  "  and  if  necessary 
slain  "  after  deposed.  On  the  Kharijites  consult  especiaTVy  T3runhow's 
excellent  monograph,  Die  Charidschiten,  &c.  (Leyden,  1884)  ;  von 
Kremer's  Herrschenden  Ideen,  &c.,  pp.  359-360  ;  Dozy's  Histoire  de 
I'lslamismc,  pp.  211-219, 


221 

like  Tamim),  and  the  heroes  of  Qddisiyya  and  other  hard- 
fought  fields  ;  with  whom  were  joined  the  puritans  of  Isldm, 
"  the  people  of  fasting  and  prayer  "  as  Shahristanf  calls  them, 
who  saw  the  unity  of  the  Faith  imperilled  by  the  ambition  of/ 
lidividuals,  and  its  interests  subordinated  to  those  of  a  cliquej 
Alike  in  their  indomitable  courage,  their  fierce  fanaticism,  and 
their  refusal  to  acknowledge  allegiance  save  to  God,  these 
Shurdty  or  "  Sellers "  of  their  lives  for  heavenly  reward  (as 
they  called  themselves,  in  allusion  to  Qur'an  ii,  203) l  remind 
us  not  only  of  the  Wahhdbfs  of  the  late  eighteenth  and  early 
nineteenth  centuries,  but  of  the  Scottish  Covenanters  and  the 
English  Puritans,  and  many  a  Kharijite  poem2  is  couched  in 
words  which,  mutatis  mutandis,  might  have  served  Balfour  of 
Burleigh. 

TQ_this_dem9c,rayic  parfy  th?  ari'storrjiPY  yf  TsMtr^  repre- 
sented by  (Ali  and  the  Hashimite  faction  of  Quraysh,  was  only 
in  degree  less  distasteful  than  the  aristocracy  of  heathenesse, 
•represented  by  Mu'awiya  and  the  Umayyads  ;  and  though 
they  fought  on  'All's  side  at  the  Battle  of  SifKn,  their  alliance, 
as  has  been  already  observed,  was  by  no  means  an  unmixed 
advantage.  For  after  the  fiasco  resulting  from  the  arbitration 
on  which  they  themselves  had  insisted,  they  came  to  'All 
saying, 3  "Arbitration  belongs  to  God  alone.  What  ailed 
thee  that  thou  madest  men  arbiters?"  "I  never  acquiesced 
in  the  matter  of  this  arbitration,"  replied  'All  ;  "it  was  ye  who 
wished  for  it,  and  I  told  you  that  it  was  a  stratagem  on  the 
part  of  the  Syrians,  and  bade  you  fight  your  foes,  but  ye 
refused  aught  save  arbitration,  and  overrode  my  judgment. 

1  And  also  Qur'an,  ix,  112.    See  Briinnow  (op.  laud.),  p.  29. 

•  The  richest  collection  of  such  poems  is  contained  in  the  Kdmil  of 
al-Mubarrad  (composed  in  the  ninth  century  of  our  era,  edited  by  Wright, 
1864-1882),  chaps,  xlix,  li,  liv.  A  selection  of  them  is  contained  in 
Noldeke's  Delectus  Vet.  Carm.  Arab.  (Berlin,  1890),  pp.  88-94.  See  also 
von  Kremer's  Culturgeschichte,  vol.  ii,  pp.  360-362. 

3  I  follow  the  account  given  by  al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlvvardt),  pp.  114 
et  seqq. 


222  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

But  when  there  was  no  escape  from  arbitration,  I  made  it 
a  condition  with  the  umpires  that  they  should  act  in  accordance 
with  God's  Scripture,  .  .  .  but  they  differed,  and  acted  con- 
trary to  Scripture,  acting  in  accordance  with  their  own 
desires  ;  so  we  are  still  of  our  original  opinion  as  to  giving 
them  battle."  "  There  is  no  doubt,"  answered  the  Kharijites, 
"  that  we  originally  acquiesced  in  the  arbitration,  but  we'"h'aVe 
repented  of  it,  and  recognise  that  we  acted  in  error.  If  now 
thou  wilt  confess  thine  infidelity  (kufr\  and  pray  God  to 
pardon  thy  fault  and  thine  error  in  surrendering  the  arbitration 
to  men,  we  will  return  with  thee  to  do  battle  with  thine 
enemy  and  our  enemy,  else  will  we  dissociate  ourselves 
from  thee." 

'All   was  naturally  incensed  at  the   unreasonable  behaviour 
of  these  men,  but  his  remonstrances  and  exhortations  were  of 

no    avail,  and  ere  his    retreating   army    reached 
TN^uwIn°f     Kufa,  twelve  thousand  of  the  malcontents  did,  as 

they  had  threatened,  dissociate  themselves  from 
him,  and  retired  to  Harurd,  where  they  encamped.  Adopting 
as  their  warcry  the  words  "  L&  hukma  ilia  lillah  I "  ("  Arbitra- 
tion belongs  to  none  save  God  !  "),  they  advanced  towards 
Mada'in  (Ctesiphpn)  with  the  intention  of  occupying  it  and 
establishing  a  "  Council  of  Representatives "  which  should 
serve  "as  a  model  to  tne  ungodly  cities  all  around."1  Foiled  in 
this  endeavour  by  the  foresight  of  the  governor,  they  continued 
their  march  to  Nahruwan,  near  the  Persian  frontier.  They  ( 
also  nominated  a  Caliph  of  their  own — 'AJadja'lldh  b.  Wahb  / 
of  the  tribe  of  Rasib)  2 — on  March  22,  A.D.  658,  and  pro- 
ceeded to  slay  as  unbelievers  Muslims  who  did  not  share  their 
views,  recognise  their  Caliph,  and  consent  to  curse  both 
'Uthman  and  'All.  Ferocity  was  strangely  mixed  with  the 
most  exaggerated  scruples  in  their  actions.  One  of  them 
picked  up  a  date  which  had  fallen  from  the  tree  and  placed  it 
in  his  mouth,  but  cast  it  away  when  some  of  his  companions 
1  Muir,  of.  laud,  p.  284.  *  Briinnow,  op,  laud.  p.  18. 


THE  KHARIJITES  223 

cried  out,  "Thou  hast  eaten  it  without  right,  having  taken  it 
without  payment  !  "  Another  smote  with  his  sword  a  pig 
which  happened  to  pass  by  him,  and  hamstrung  it.  "  This," 
exclaimed  his  fellows,  "  is  a  mischief  on  the  earth  !  "  There- 
upon he  sought  out  the  owner  and  paid  him  compensation.1 
On  the  other  hand  harmless  travellers  were  slain,  and  women 
great  with  child  were  ripped  open  with  the  sword.  For  such 
cruelties  the  fanatics  offered  no  apology  ;  on  the  contrary, 
when  invited  by  'All  to  surrender  the  murderers  and  depart  in 
peace,  they  cried,  "  We  have  all  taken  part  in  the  slaughter  of 
the  heathen  !  " 

With  such  a  danger  threatening  their  homes,  it  was  not  to 
be  expected  that  'All's  troops  would  consent  to  march  again 
on  Syria  until  they  had  made  an  end  of  these  schismatics.  'Alii 
still  for  clemency,  suffered  such  of  them  as  would  to  withdraw 
themselves  from  the  Kharijite  camp.  Half  of  them  availe$ 
themselves  of  this  offer  ;  the  remaining  two  thousand,  sconir 
fully  rejecting  all  overtures,  stood  their  ground  and  perished 
almost  to  a  man,  while  of  'All's  60,000  warriors  only  seven  fefl. 
This  happened  in  May  or  June,  A.D.  658,  and  served  but  to 
render  more  implacable  the  enmity  of  the  surviving  Kharijites 
towards  'All,  whom  henceforth  they  hated  even  more  than 
they  hated  Mu'awiya.  'All's  troops,  moreover,  refused  to 
march  against  his  rival  until  they  had  rested  and  recruited 
themselves.  "Our  swords  are  blunted,"  they  said,  "our 
arrows  are  spent,  and  we  are  wearied  of  warfare  ;  let  us  alone, 
that  we  may  set  our  affairs  in  order,  and  then  we  will  march."2 
But  instead  they  began  to  slip  away  as  occasion  offered,  until 
at  length  the  camp  was  left  empty  ;  and  Mu'awiya,  waxing 

ever   bolder    as  he  saw  the  increasing  difficulties 
^fort'uifeT19"   against  which  his    rival   had    to   struggle,   seized 

Egypt  and  stirred  up  revolt  even  in  Basra ;  while 
fresh    Kharijite    risings  extending    throughout    the    south    of 

1  Al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt),  p.  115.  *  Ibid.,  p.  117. 


224  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

Persia  (the  people  of  which  were  won  "by  the  specious  and 
inflammatory  cry  that  payment  of  taxes  to  an  ungodly  Caliph 
was  but  to  support  his  cause,  and  as  such  intolerable  "),* 

followed  by  a  series  of  untoward  and  painful  events, 
Ii^aew7yah  so  broke  'All's  spirit  that  in  A.D.  660  he  was  fain 

to  conclude  a  treaty  which  left  Mu'awiya  in 
undisturbed  possession  of  Syria  and  Egypt.  A  year  later 

(January,  661)  'AH  was  assassinated  in  the  mosque 

Assassination  of       c  T»-  ,e     \       TU        n/r    i-  j  i          tr\   i    ••• 

•AH,  Jan.  25,      of  Kufajby  ibn,  jvluljam  and  two  other  Khanjite 

fanatics.     Thus    died,   in    his  sixtieth   year,    the 

Prophet's  cousin  and  son-in-law,  the  last  of  the  four  Orthodox 

Caliphs  of  the  Sunnis,  the  first  of  the  Shi'ite  Imams.     He  was 

succeeded  by  al-Hasan  (the  eldest  of  the  three  sons 2  born  to 

him  by  Fatima,  the  Prophet's  daughter),  who,  on 

Succession  and      ,  f ,  i  ,    , .  ,         , 

abdication  of     August     10,    ooi,     tamely     abdicated,     leaving 

al-Hasan.  •««•//•  i-  i  /-        i 

Mu'awiya  undisputed  master  of  the  great 
Muhammadan  Empire,  and  the  Umayyad  power  firmly 
established  and  universally  acknowledged. 

The  triumph  of  the  Umayyads  was  in  reality,  as  Dozy  well 
says,  the  triumph  of  that  party  which,  at  heart,  was  hostile  to 
Islam  ;  and  the  sons  of  the  Prophet's  most  inveterate  foes 
now,  unchanged  at  heart,  posed  as  his  legitimate  successors 
and  vicegerents,  and  silenced  with  the  sword  those  who  dared 
to  murmur  against  their  innovations.  Nor  was  cause  for 
murmuring  far  to  seek  even  in  the  reign  of  Mu'dwiya,  who,  in 
the  splendour  of  his  court  at  Damascus,  and  in  the  barriers 
which  he  set  between  himself  and  his  humbler  subjects,  took 
as  his  model  the  Byzantine  Emperors  and  Persian  Kings  rather 
than  the  first  vicars  of  the  Prophet.  In  the  same  spirit  he 
nominated  his  son  Yazid  as  his  successor,  and  forced  this 
unwelcome  nomination  on  the  people  of  the  Holy  Cities  of 
Mecca  and  Madhia. 


1  Muir,  op.  cit.,  p.  292. 

9  One  of  these  died  in  infancy.    The  other  was  al-Husayn. 


YAZfD  22$ 

It  was  still  worse  when,  on   the  death  of  Mu'awiya  (April, 

A.D.   680),   Yazid  came  to  the  throne.     No  name  is  more 

execrated  throughout  Islim,  but  most  of  all  in 

Y*6&>is3)D'      Persia,    than    his.     A    Persian   who   will   remain 

unmoved  by  such  epithets  as  "liar,"  "scoundrel," 

or  "robber,"  will  fly  into  a  passion  if  you  call  him  Yazid, 

Shimr,  or  Ibn  Ziydd.     A  Persian   poet,  who  had 

His  very  name      ,  i_     i      j     r  JJ-  L- 

execrated  by  the  been  rebuked  for  adding  a  curse  to  his  name, 
retorted,  "  If  God  can  pardon  Yazid,  then  He 
will  very  surely  pardon  us  for  cursing  him  !  "  Hdfidjj  has  been 
severely  censured  because  the  first  ode  in  his  dlwan  begins  with 
the  second  hemistich  of  the  following  verse  from  the  poems  of 
this  impious  Caliph  : — 

Ana'l-tnasmuntu  ma  'indi  bi-lirydq*'"  wa  Id  rdqi  ; 
Adir  ka'sf*  wa  nawil-hd,  aldyd  ayyuha's-sdqi  I 

"I,  drugged   with   poison,   have   neither  antidote   nor   guarding 

charm  ; 
Pass  the  cup  and  give  it  me  to  drink,  O  cupbearer  ! " 

Ahli  of  Shiraz,  seeking  to  apologise  for  "  the  Tongue  ot  the 
Unseen  "  (Lisdnul-Ghayb\  as  the  admirers  of  Hdfidh  call  him, 
says : — 

"One  night  I  saw  Master  Hafidh  in  a  dream; 
I  said,  'O  thou  who  art  peerless  in  excellence  and  learning, 
Wherefore  didst  thou  take  to  thyself  this  verse  of  Yazid, 
Notwithstanding  all  this  virtue  and  eminence?' 
He  answered,  'Thou  understandest  not  this  matter; 
The  infidel's  goods  are  lawful  spoil  to  the  true  believer  ! ' " 

But  even  this  excuse  would  not  pass.  Kitibf  or  Nfehdpur 
replies  : — 

"Greatly  do  I  marvel  at  Master  Hafidh, 
So  that  thereby  understanding  is  reduced  to  helplessness. 
What  virtue  did  he  perceive  in  Yazid's  verse 
That  in  his  diwdn  he  first  sings  of  him  ? 

16 


226  THE    UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

Although  to  the  true  believer  the  infidel's  goods 
Are  lawful  spoil,  and  herein  no  discussion  is  possible, 
Yet  is  it  a  very  shameful  act  for  the  lion 
To  snatch  a  morsel  from  the  mouth  of  the  dog  !" 

Needless  to  say  Yazid  has  found  defenders  amongst  European 
historians,  to  some  of  whom  the  reversal  of  unanimous  verdicts 

is  always  an  alluring  aim.     Nor,  indeed,  is    his 
ChY^!rof     personality  repulsive.    Born  of  a  Bedouin  mother,1 

bred  in  the  free  air  of  the  desert,  an  eager  and 
skilful  huntsman,  a  graceful  poet,2  a  gallant  lover,  fond  of  wine, 
music,  and  sport,  and  little  concerned  with  religion,  we  might, 
for  all  his  godlessness,  levity,  and  extravagance,  have  suffered  his 
handsome  face,3  his  pretty  verses,  his  kingly  qualities,  and  his 
joyous  appreciation  of  life  to  temper  our  judgment  had  it  not 
been  for  the  black  stain  which  the  tragedy  of  Kerbela  has  left 
on  his  memory.  "  His  reign,"  says  al-Fakhrf,  "  according  to 
the  more  correct  statement,  lasted  three  years  and  six  months. 
In  the  first  year  he  slew  al-Husayn,  the  son  of  'All  (on  both 
of  whom  be  Peace  ! ) ;  and  in  the  second  year  he  sacked 
Madina  and  looted  it  for  three  days ;  and  in  the  third 
year  he  attacked  the  Ka'ba." 

Of  these  three  outrages,  the  first  in  particular  sent  a  shudder 
of  horror  throughout  the  Muhammadan  world,  nor  can  any 

one  endowed    with    feeling    read    unmoved    the 
Kerbeia  (dct°     lamentable  tale.     It  was  not  only  a  crime  but  a 

gigantic  blunder,  whereby  Yazid  and  his  execrable 
minions,  Ibn  Ziyad,  Shimr,  and  the  rest  irretrievably  alienated 
from  the  House  of  Umayya  not  the  love  or  loyalty — for  there 
was  little  enough  of  that  already — but  the  tacit  toleration  of 
all  those  who  loved  the  Prophet  or  cared  for  the  religion  which 
he  had  founded.  .  The  Shila,  or  "  Faction  "  of  'All,  had,  as  we 
have  seen,  hitherto  been  sadly  lacking  in  enthusiasm  and  self- 

*  Muir,  op.  cit.,  p.  316. 

*  Some  very  pretty  verses  by  him  are  given  by  al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt), 
PP-  137-138.  3  Al-Fakhri,  p.  67. 


KERBELA  227 

devotion  ;  but  henceforth  all  this  was  changed,  and  a  reminder 
of  the  blood-stained  field  of  Kerbela,  where  the  grandson  of  the 
Apostle  of  God  fell  at  length,  tortured  by  thirst  and  surrounded 
by  the  bodies  of  his  murdered  kinsman,  has  been  at  any  time 
since  then  sufficient  to  evoke,  even  in  the  most  lukewarm  and 
heedless,  the  deepest  emotion,  the  most  frantic  grief,  and  an 
exaltation  of  spirit  before  which  pain,  danger,  and  death  shrink 
to  unconsidered  trifles.  Yearly,  on  the  tenth  day  of  Muharram 
the  tragedy  is  rehearsed  in  Persia,  in  India,  in  Turkey,  in 
Egypt,  wherever  a  Shi'ite  community  or  colony  exists  ;  and 
who  has  been  a  spectator,  though  of  alien  faith,  of  these  ta'ziyas 
without  experiencing  within  himself  something  of  what  they 
mean  to  those  whose  religious  feeling  finds  in  them  its  supreme 
expression  ?  As  I  write  it  all  comes  back  :  the  wailing^  chant, 
the  sobbing  multitudes,  the  white  raiment  red  with  blood  from 
self-inflicted  wounds,  the  intoxication  of  grief  and  sympathy. 
Well  says  al-Fakhri * : — 

"This  is  a  catastrophe  whereof  I  care  not  to   speak  at  length, 

deeming  it  alike  too  grievous  and  too  horrible.     For  verily  it  was  a 

catastrophe  than   which  naught  more   shameful  hath 

A1iferbeii °"  happened  in  Islam.  Verily,  as  I  live,  the  murder  of 
['Ali]  the  Commander  of  the  Faithful  was  the  Supreme 
Calamity  ;  but  as  for  this  event,  there  happened  therein  such  foul 
slaughter  and  leading  captive  and  shameful  usage  as  cause  men's 
flesh  to  creep  with  horror.  And  again  I  have  dispensed  with  any 
long  description  thereof  because  of  its  notoriety,  for  it  is  the  most 
celebrated  of  catastrophes.  May  God  curse  every  one  who  had  a 
hand  therein,  or  who  ordered  it,  or  took  pleasure  in  any  part  thereof ! 
From  such  may  God  not  accept  any  substitute  or  atonement !  May 
He  place  them  with  those  whose  deeds  involve  the  greatest  loss, 
whose  effort  miscarries  even  in  this  present  life,  while  they  fondly 
imagine  that  they  do  well ! " 

"The  tragedy  of  Kerbala,"  says  Sir  William  Muir,2  "decided  not 
only  the  fate  of  the  Caliphate,  but  of  Mahometan  kingdoms  long 
after  the  Caliphate  had  waned  and  disappeared.  Who  that  has  seen 
the  wild  and  passionate  grief  with  which,  at  each  recurring 

1  Pp.  138  et  scqq.  •  P.  324. 


228  THE    UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

anniversary,  the  Muslims  of  every  land  spend  the  live-long  night, 
beating  their  breasts  and  vociferating  unweariedly  the  frantic  cry — 
Hasan,  Hosetn  !  Hasan,  Hosein  ! — in  wailing  cadence  can  fail  to 
recognise  the  fatal  weapon,  sharp  and  double-edged,  which  the 
Omeyyad  dynasty  allowed  thus  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  their 
enemies  ?" 

The  rebellion  of  'Abdu'llah  ibn  Zubayr,  who  for  nine  years 

(A.D.  683-692)  maintained  himself  as  independent  Caliph  in  the 

Holy  Cities,  like  the  more  formidable  insurrection 

IbnVubayer       of   Mukhtar    (A.D.    683-687),  Owed    itS    SUCCCSS  tO 
and  Mukhtar.         .  .     .      .         -  . 

the  general  desire  tor  vengeance  on  the  murderers 
of  al-Husayn  and  his  kinsmen  which  possessed  not  only  the 
whole  Shi'ite  party,  but  even  many  of  the  Kharijites.1  In  the 
sack  of  Madfna  by  Yazid's  army  (A.D.  682)  there  perished 
eighty  "  Companions  "  of  the  Prophet,  and  no  fewer  than  seven 
hundred  "  Readers  "  who  knew  by  heart  the  whole  Qur'an. 
The  blood  of  these  too  cried  for  vengeance,  as  did  the 
desecrated  sanctuary  of  Mecca.  Kerbeli  at  least  was  amply 
avenged  by  Mukhtar  (A.D.  686),  who  put  to  death,  in  many 
instances  with  torture,  Ibn  Ziyad,  Shimr,  4Amr  ibn  Sacd,  and 
several  hundred  persons  of  lesser  note  who  had  borne  a  share 
in  that  guilty  deed.  He  himself,  however,  was  slain  less  than 
a  year  afterwards  by  Mus'ab,  the  brother  of  Ibn  Zubayr, 
together  with  7,000  or  8,000  of  his  followers.  The  growing 
dissensions  whereby  the  Musulman  world  was  torn  found  a 
remarkable  illustration  in  June,  A.D.  688,  when  four  rival 
leaders — the  Umayyad  Caliph  'Abdu'l-Malik,  'All's  son 
Muhammad  (generally  known  as  "//>«#'/- Hanafiyya"  "the 
son  of  the  Hanafite  woman,"  in  allusion  to  his  mother),  Ibn 
Zubayr,  and  Najda  the  Kharijite — presided  over  the  ceremonies 
of  the  Pilgrimage  at  Mecca,  each  at  the  head  of  his  own 
followers. 

The  movement  headed  by  Mukhtdr  was,  as  we  have  seen, 
essentially  Shi'ite  j  the  cry  was  throughout  for  vengeance  on 

1  Muir,  op.  cit.,  p.  332. 


REBELLION  OF  AL-MUKHTAR          229 

the  murderers  of  al-Husayn  and   his  companions,  and  it  pro- 
fessed to  aim  at  establishing  the  rights  of  the  above-mentioned 
Ibntil-Hanafyya.*     Herein  it  differed  from  later 

Characteristics      nixc  •  •       1-1  « 

of  Mukhtar's  bhrite  movements,  since  it  did  not  recognise  the 
importance  attached  by  these  to  direct  descent 
either  from  the  Prophet  through  his  daughter  Fatima  (who  was 
the  mother  of  both  al-Hasan  and  al-Husayn,  but  not,  of  course, 
of  Ibmil  Hanafiyya\  or  from  the  Persian  Royal  House  of 
Sasan.  This  double  qualification  appears  first  in  al-Husayn's 
son  'All,  called  as-Sajjad^  "  the  Worshipper,"  or  more  often 

the  Devout,"  whose 
mother  was  believed  to  be  the  daughter  of  Yazdigird2;  and 
it  was  in  him  and  his  descendants  that  the  legitimist  aspirations 
of  the  two  great  branches  into  which  the  later  Shi'ites  became 
divided  (the  "Sect  of  the  Twelve "  and  the  "Sect  of  the 
Seven")  first  found  complete  satisfaction.  Amongst  Mukhtar's 
followers  there  were,  as  we  know,  a  great  number  of  non-Arab 
"clients"  (mawla^  pi.  mawaH\  of  whom  the  majority  were  in 
all  probability  Persians  ;  of  his  army  of  8,000  men  which 
capitulated  to  Mus'ab,  the  brother  of  Ibn  Zubayr,  less  than 
one-tenth  (some  700)  were  Arabs.3  The  causes  which  enlisted 
these  foreign  Muslims  in  his  ranks  have  been  most  carefully 

1  See  al-Ya'qubi,  ed.  Houtsma,  vol.  ii,  p.  308. 

•  See  pp.  i$oets,cqq.  supra,  and  al-Ya'qubi's  excellent  history  (ed.  Houtsma), 
vol.  ii,  pp.  293,  and  363.  "  His  mother,"  says  this  historian  (who  died  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  ninth  century  of  our  era),  "  was  Harar  [name  uncertain] 
the  daughter  of  Yazdigird  the  Persian  King  ;  and  this  was  because 
when  'Umar  b.  al-Khattab  brought  in  the  two  daughters  of  Yazdigird, 
he  gave  one  of  them  to  al-Husayn  the  son  of  'Ali,  who  named  her  '  the 
Gazelle."  And  when  'Ali  the  son  of  al-Husayn  [and  this  Persian  princess] 
was  mentioned,  some  of  the  noblest  used  to  say,  '  All  men  would,  be  glad 
iLlheir  mothers  were  [such]  slaves  ! ' ' 

3  Muir,  op.  cii,  pi  336.  "  It  is  instructive  to  observe,"  says  this 
historian,  "  the  distinctive  value  at  this  period  placed  on  the  life  of  Arabs, 
when  it  was  calmly  proposed  to  set  the  Arab  prisoners  free  and  slay  the 
'clients'  of  foreign  blood."  All,  however,  were,  after  much  discussion, 
put  to  death.  Dinawari  (p.  296)  also  mentions  that  there  were  many 
Persians  amongst  Mukhtar's  followers. 


ic 

r 


230  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

studied  by  Van  Vloten  in  his  scholarly  Recherches  sur  la  domina- 
tion arabe,  &c.,  the  work  to  which  we  are  most  indebted  in  the 
following  paragraphs. 

The   Umayyad  rule  reached  its  culminating  point  in   the 

reign  of  'Abdu'l-Malik  (A.D.  685-705),  in  which  the  purely 

Arabian  secular  power  reached  its  zenith.     Then, 

Reign  of  'Abdu'l-  ...  ,. 

Malik  (A.D.  as  we  have  seen,  Arabic  coinage  first  came  into 
general  use ;  the  Government  accounts  were  trans- 
ferred from  the  Persian  into  the  Arabic  language  ;  the  old 
Arabian  aristocracy  was  dominant ;  the  foreign  "  clients  "  were 
despised  and  oppressed  ;  and  the  feelings  of  the  pious  Muslims 
— especially  the  Ansdr,  or  "  Helpers,"  of  Madina,  and  the  loyal 
adherents  of  the  House  of  the  Prophet — were  repeatedly  and 
ruthlessly  outraged.  'Abdu'l-Malik's  capable  but  cruel  lieu- 
tenant, Hajjij  ibn  Yusuf  (a  name  hardly  less  execrated  than 
those  of  Yazid,  Ibn  Ziydd,  and  Shimr),  who  first  recommended 
himself  to  his  master's  notice  by  his  readiness  to 
(aiUHa"!>-f  undertake  the  siege  and  bombardment  of  Mecca  x 
and  the  suppression  of  Ibn  Zubayr's  rebellion,  was 
for  more  than  twenty-two  years  (A.D.  691-713)  the  blood- 
thirsty and  merciless  scourge  of  the  Muslim  world.  The 
number  of  persons  put  to  death  by  him  in  cold  blood,  apart 
from  those  slain  in  battle,  is  estimated  at  120,000  ;  and  his 
savage  harangue  to  the  people  of  Kiifa,2  beginning,  "  By  God  ! 
1  see  glances  fixed  upon  me,  and  necks  stretched  forward,  and  heads 
ripe  for  the  reaping,  ready  to  be  cut  off,  and  I  am  the  man  to  do 
it !  "  is  typical  of  the  man's  ferocious  nature.  Not  less  typical 
of  his  master,  'Abdu'l-Malik,  are  the  words  wherewith  he  is 
said  to  have  received  the  news  of  his  accession  to  the  Caliphate. 3 
He  was  reading  the  Qur'an  when  the  messenger  came  to  him  ; 
on  hearing  the  message,  he  closed  the  holy  volume,  saying, 
u  *  This  is  a  separation  between  me  and  thee  / ' "  4  To  the 

1  Al-Ya'qubi,  vol.  ii,  p.  318. 

a  See  Mas'udi's  Murufu'cih-Dltabab,  ed.   B.  de  Meynard,  vol.  5,  pp. 
294-300.        3  Al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt),  pp.  146-147.       •»  Qur'an,  xviii,  77. 


CAUSES  OF  DISCONTENT  231 

sanctity  of  places  and  persons  he  was  equally  insensible  when 
political  considerations  bade  him  destroy,  and  his  Syrians 
hesitated  not  to  obey  his  behests.  "  Reverence  and  loyalty 
clashed,"  says  al-Yacqubi,r  "and  loyalty  conquered." 

"  Thus,  then,"  as  Dozy  well  remarks,2  "  the  party  hostile  to  Islam 
did  not  rest  until  they  had  subdued  the  two  Sacred  Cities,  turned  the 
The  Umavyad    mosque  of  Mecca  into  a  stable,  burned  the  Ka'ba,  and 
rule  character-    inflicted  deep  humiliation  on  the  descendants  of  the 
first  Muslims.    The  Arab  tribes,  which  a  minority  had 
subdued  and  compelled  to  embrace  Islam,  made  it  pay  dearly  for 
this  double  success.    The  whole  Umayyad  period  is  nothing  else  but 
the  reaction  and  triumph  of  the  pagan  principle.    The  Caliphs  them- 
selves were,  with  about  one  exception,  either  indifferent  or  infidel. 
One  of  them,  Walid  II  (A.D.  743-744),  even  went  so  far  as  to  suffer 
his  concubines  to  take  his  place  in  public  prayer,  and  to  use  the 
Qur'an  as  a  target  for  his  arrows." 3 

Broadly  speaking,  the  policy  of  the  Umayyads 
^irei/ai^MtS"   utterty  alienated    four    classes   of   their   subjects, 

by  Umayyad      to        :f  . 

policy. 

(i)  The  pious  Muslims,  who  saw  with  horror 

and  detestation  the  sacrilegious  actions,  the  ungodly  lives,  the 

profanity   and    the    worldliness    of    their    rulers. 

Muslims*       Amongst    these    were    included    nearly  all    the 

"Companions"     (JshAb)     and     the    "Helpers" 

(dnsAr}y  and    their    descendants.     From    these   elements    the 

rebellion  of  Ibn  Zubayr  derived  most  of  its  strength. 

(2)  The  "  Faction  "  (SM'a)  of  <Ali,  which  had  suffered  from 
the   House  of   Umayya   the  irreparable    wrongs,  culminating 

in  the    tragedy  of   Kerbeld,  of    which    we  have 
already  spoken.     This  constituted  the   kernel  of 
al-Mukhtar's  rebellion. 

(3)  The  Kharijites,  or  puritan  theocrats,  who,  reinforced  by 

malcontents  and  freebooters  of  every  kind,  con- 

3.  Khawarij.         ....  .         , 

tmued,   till  about    A.D.   700,  to  cause  continual 

1  Vol.  ii,  p.  300.  a  L'lslamistne  (Chauvin's  translation),  p.  179. 

3  See  al-Fakhri,  p.  159,  where  a  pair  of  verses  addressed  by  him  to  the 
misused  Qur'an  are  cited. 


232  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

trouble  of  the  most  serious  kind  to  the  Umayyad  Govern- 
ment.1 

(4)  The  "  Clients  "  (Maw&li)^  or  non-Arab  Muslims,  who, 

far  from  being  treated  by  the  Government  as  equal  to  their 

co-religionists   of  Arab  birth,   were   regarded   as 

4.  Subject-races.  . 

subject-races  to   be  oppressed,  exploited  and  de- 
spised by  their  rulers. 

Following  Van  Vloten's  admirable  researches,  it  is  of  this 
last  class  in  particular  that  we  shall  now  speak.  This  learned 

writer  ascribes  the  fall  of  the  Umayyad  dynasty 

Causes  of  the  .  .   .  .          ' .  ,. 

faii  of  the      and  the  triumph  of  the  'Abbasids  mainly  to  three 

Umayyad  power. 

causes  :  to  wit  : — 

(1)  The    inveterate    hatred    of  a   subject    race  towards  its 
foreign  oppressors. 

(2)  The  Shi'ite  movement,  or  Cult  of  the  descendants  of 
the  Prophet. 

(3)  The  expectation  of  a  Messiah  or  deliverer. 

The  rivalry  of  the  Arab  tribes  of  the  north  and  the  south,  a 
rivalry  carried  with  them  to  the  remotest  towns  which  they 
occupied,  and  immortalised  in  the  celebrated  verses  of  Nasr  ibn 
Sayyar  to  which  we  shall  presently  refer,  has,  in  his  opinion, 
been  exaggerated  as  a  factor  in  the  fall  of  the  Umayyad 
Caliphate,  and  is  consequently  relegated  to  a  secondary  place. 

The  condition  of  the  conquered  races — not  only  those  who 
embraced  Islam,  but  also  those  who  continued  to  profess  the 
Jewish,  Christian,  and  Magian  faiths — was,  as  we 
C°ub-ectnraceshe  nave  already  seen,  tolerable,  if  not  precisely 
enviable,  in  the  pre-Umayyad  days.3  Under  the 
Umayyad  rule,  however,  with  its  strong  racial  prejudices  and 
aggressive  imperialism,  wars  and  invasions  originally  under- 
taken, in  part  at  least,  for  the  propagation  of  Islam  degenerated 
into  mere  predatory  raids,3  of  which  booty  was  the  principal 

1  The  death  of  Shabib  b.  Yazid  ash-Shaybani,  about  A.D.  699,  is  con- 
sidered by  Brunnow  (op.  cit.,  p.  49)  to  mark  the  end  of  the  more  serious 
Kharijite  insurrections. 

•  Van  Vloten,  op.  cit.,  pp.  3  and  14-15.  3  Idem,  pp.  4-7. 


233 

it  not  the  sole  aim.  But  this  did  not  suffice  to  meet  the 
growing  luxury  and  extravagance  of  the  ruling  class,  and  a 
heavier  burden  of  taxation  was  constantly  imposed  on  the 
subject-races,  so  that  the  profession  of  Isldm  became  to  them, 
from  the  material  point  of  view,  but  a  doubtful  relief. 
Embezzlement  and  peculation,  moreover,  became  increasingly 
common  amongst  the  governors  and  their  myrmidons  (sanlla\* 
who,  for  the  most  part,  simply  strove  to  enrich  themselves  by 
every  means  in  their  power  during  their  tenure  of  office.  These 
peculations  were  so  serious  that  a  regular  process  of  "squeezing" 
(istikhrdf)  came  to  be  practised  by  each  new  governor  on  his 
predecessor,  the  right  of  exercising  this  privilege  being  actually 
bought  from  the  central  Government  at  Damascus.  The  sums 
which  these  tyrannical  governors  were  thus  compelled  to 
disgorge  were  sometimes  very  great ;  thus,  for  instance,  Yusuf 
ibn  'Umar  extracted  from  his  predecessor  in  the  government 
of  'Iraq,  Khalid  al-Qasri,  and  his  creatures,  no  less  than  seventy 
million  dirhams  (about  ,£2,800,000).  The  burden  of  all  these 
exactions  fell  ultimately  on  the  wretched  peasantry,  who  had 
no  means  of  lodging  any  effective  complaint ;  and  it  was 
aggravated  by  the  humiliating  circumstances  attendant  on  the 
collection  of  the  taxes.2  The  old  Persian  aristocracy  and 
landed  proprietors  (dihq&n)  did,  it  is  true,  succeed  in  preserving 
much  of  their  power  and  wealth  by  embracing  Islam  and  throwing 
in  their  lot  with  the  conquerors,  to  whom  their  services  were 
needful  and  their  local  influence  and  knowledge  indispensable, 
but  for  the  humbler  classes  it  was  not  so,  for,  as  Van  Vloten 
remarks, "  the  ambition  and  racial  pride  of  the  Arabs,  combined 
with  their  greed,  offered  an  insuperable  obstacle  to  the  amelio- 
ration "  of  their  lot.  The  "  clients "  were,  indeed,  regarded 
by  the  Arabs  as  an  inferior  race,  little  better  than  slaves. 
"  Nothing,"  says  the  historian  Tabari,  in  speaking  of  the  revolt 
of  Mukhtar  (whose  supporters,  as  we  have  seen,  consisted  to  a 
great  extent  of  "  clients,"  or  non-Arab  Muslims,  Maw&lt),  "  so 
1  Van  Vloten,  op.  at.,  pp.  9-11.  •  Idem,  pp.  11-12. 


234  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

exasperated  the  [Arab]  Kufans  as  to  see  Mukhtar  assign  to  the 
clients '  their  share  of  the  spoil.  '  You  have  taken  from  us  our 
clients,'  they  cried,  'who  are  the  spoil  which  God  hath  destined 
for  us  with  all  this  province.  We  have  liberated  them,  hoping 
for  a  reward  from  God,  but  you  do  not  trouble  yourself  about 
this,  and  cause  them  to  share  in  our  booty.'  "  J 

Under  the  government  of  the  cruel  and  godless  tjajjaj  ibn 
Yusuf,  converts  to  Islam  were  compelled  to  pay  thejizya^  or 
poll-tax  levied  on  non-Muslims,  from  which  they  ought  to  have 
been  exempt.  Their  discontent  caused  them  to  join  the 
rebellion  of  'Abdu'r-Rahman  ibn  Ash'ath  in  great  numbers,  but 
the  revolt  was  quenched  in  blood,  and  the  "  clients "  were 
driven  back  to  their  villages,  the  names  of  which  were  branded 
on  their  hands.2  The  action  of  al-Hajjdj,  as  von  Kremer 
remarks,  put  an  end  to  the  hopes  entertained  by  the  "clients" 
and  new  converts  of  becoming  the  equals  of  the  dominant  race, 
but  their  discontent  continued,  and  was  the  most  potent  of  the 
causes  which  contributed  to  the  downfall  of  the  Umayyad 
dynasty.3 

"  Of  all  the  Umayyads,"  says  Dozy,4  "  'Umar  II  (A.D.  717-720)  was 
the  only  truly  believing  and  pious  prince.  He  was  not  moved  by 

pecuniary  interest ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  the  propa- 
'Abdu^  -AZIZ  gati°n  °f  the  faith  was  all  the  more  dear  to  his  heart. 

The  officials  found  it  difficult  to  adapt  themselves  to 
this  new  principle,  which  contrasted  so  strongly  with  that  which  had 
hitherto  been  in  force.  '  If  things  continue  in  Egypt  as  at  present,' 
wrote  an  official  to  the  Caliph, '  the  Christians  will,  without  exception, 
embrace  Islam,  and  the  State  will  lose  all  its  revenues.'  'I  should 
regard  it  as  a  great  blessing/  replied  'Umar,  'if  all  the  Christians 
were  converted,  for  God  sent  His  Prophet  to  act  as  an  apostle,  not  as 
a  tax-collector.'  To  the  governor  of  Khurasan,  who  complained  that 
many  of  the  Persians  in  his  province  had  only  embraced  Islam  in 
order  to  be  exempt  from  the  payment  of  the  poll-tax  (jizyd),  and  that 
they  had  not  caused  themselves  to  be  circumcised,  he  replied  in  a 
similar  strain,  '  God  sent  Muhammad  to  make  known  the  true  faith 


1  Van  Vloten,  op.  cit.,  p.  16.  a  Ibid.,  pp.  17  and  26-27. 

3  Strcifzftgc,  p.  24.    4  L'Islamismc  (Chauvin's  translation),  pp.  180-181. 


'UMAX  IBN  'ABDU'L-'AZfZ  235 

unto  men,  not  to  circumcise  them.' '  He  did  not,  therefore,  interpret 
too  rigorously  the  prescriptions  of  the  law  :  he  did  not  ignore  the 
fact  that  many  conversions  were  lacking  in  sincerity,  but  at  the  same 
time  he  saw,  and  saw  truly,  that  if  the  children  and  grand-children 
of  these  converts  were  brought  up  as  Muslims,  they  would  one  day 
become  as  good,  perhaps  even  better,  believers  than  the  Arabs." 

*Umar  ibn  'Abdu'l-  'Aziz  stands  out  as  a  bright  and  noble 

exception  amidst  the  godless,  greedy,  self-seeking  rulers  of  the 

House  of  Umayya.     His  rule,  it  is  true,  inspired 

Character  and  J  J       ...... 

effects  of  the     throughout  by  considerations  or  the  other  world 

reigaof'Umarll  to  / 

rather  than  of  this,  was  disastrous  to  the  revenue  ; 
his  methods,  faithfully  copied  from  those  which  prevailed  during 
the  Caliphate  of  his  illustrious  namesake  'Umar  ibnu'l-Khattab, 
were  too  conservative — even  reactionary — to  achieve  success  ; 
and  the  hopes  aroused  once  more  in  the  breasts  of  the  subject- 
races  by  his  endeavours  to  secure  for  them  justice  and  security, 
but  destined  only  to  be  crushed  again  by  his  successors,  did  but 
quicken  and  strengthen  the  growing  reaction  against  Arab 
imperialism.  Judged  from  the  worldly  point  of  view,  in  short, 
'Umar  II  struck  a  fatal  blow  at  the  supremacy  of  his  House 
and  race  ;  judged  by  the  religious  standard  he  acted  as  a  faithful 
Muslim  should.  By  his  abolition  of  the  public  cursing  of  'All 
in  the  mosques  he  gained  the  approbation  of  all  pious  Muham- 
madans,  and  must  to  some  extent  have  conciliated  the  Shi'ite 
party.  The  poet  Kuthayyir  has  some  verses2  praising  him  for 
this,  which  begin  : — 


"  Thou  hast  succeeded  to  the  throne,  and  didst  not  revile  'AH,  not 

terrify 

The  innocent  man,  nor  follow  the  counsel  of  the  evil-doer; 
Thou  didst  speak,  and  didst  confirm  what  thou  didst  say  by  what 
Thou  didst  do,  and  every  Muslim  became  well  content." 


1  Cf.  Van  Vloten,  op.  at.,  pp.  22-23. 

»  Cited  by  al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt),  pp.  i54-<55- 


236  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

'Umar's  death  nearly  coincided  with  the  end  of  the  first 

Endof  the  first    century  of  the  Muhammadan  era,  at  which  time, 

5£^Bw£-   added  to  the  prevailing  discontent  of  the  subject- 

•Abbdfidpropa-   races,  there  seems  to  have  been  a  prevalent  belief 

that  some  great  revolution  was  impending. 

"In  this  year"  (A.H.  IOI=A.D.  719-720),  says  Dmawari,1  "the 
Shi'ites  sent  deputations  to  the  Imam  Muhammad  b.  'All  b.  'Ab- 
du'llah  b.  'Abbas  b.  'Abdu'l-Muttalib  b.  Hashim,*  whose  abode  was 
in  the  land  of  Syria,  at  a  place  called  al-Humayma.  The  first  of  the 
Shi'ites  who  thus  came  forward  were  Maysara  al-'Abdf,  Abu  'Ikrima 
the  saddler,  Muhammad  b.  Khunays,  and  Hayyan  the  druggist. 
These  came  to  him,  desiring  to  swear  allegiance  to  him,  and  said, 
'  Stretch  out  thine  hand  that  we  may  swear  allegiance  to  thee  in  the 
endeavour  to  secure  for  thee  this  sovereignty,  that  perchance  by  thee 
God  may  quicken  justice  and  slay  oppression  ;  for  verily  now  is  the 
time  and  season  of  this,  which  we  have  found  handed  down  from 
the  most  learned  amongst  you.'  Muhammad  b.  'All  answered  them 
saying,  '  This  is  the  season  of  what  we  hope  and  desire  herein,  because  of 
the  completion  of  a  hundred  years  of  the  calendar.  For  verily  never 
do  a  hundred  years  pass  over  a  people  but  God  maketh  manifest 
the  truth  of  them  that  strive  to  vindicate  the  right,  and  bringeth  to 
naught  the  vanity  of  them  that  countenance  error,  because  of  the 
word  of  God  (mighty  is  His  Name)  :  "  Or  like  him  who  passed  by  a 
village,  when  it  was  desolate  and  turned  over  on  its  roofs,  and  said, 
'  How  shall  God  revive  this  after  its  death  ? '  And  God  made  him  die 
for  a  hundred  years,  then  He  raised  him  up."3  Go,  therefore,  O  man, 
and  summon  the  people  cautiously  and  secretly,  and  I  pray  that  God 
may  fulfil  your  undertaking  and  make  manifest  [the  fruits  of]  your 
Mission  ;  and  there  is  no  power  save  in  Him.' " 

Such  was  the  beginning  of  the  celebrated  "  Mission  "  or 
"Propaganda"  (dalwa}  of  the  'Abbasids,  which,  working 
silently  but  surely  on  the  abundant  elements  of  disaffection 
which  already  existed,  undermined  the  Umayyad  power,  and 
within  thirty  years  overthrew  the  tottering  edifice  of  their 
dynasty.  The  agents  of  this  propaganda  (dd^l^  plural  dulat]  — 
able,  self-devoted  men,  who,  though  avoiding  any  premature 

1  Ed.  Guirgass,  pp.  334  et  seqq.  *  See  the  table  on  p.  214  supra, 

3  Qur'an  ii,  261. 


THE  l  ABB  A  SID  PROPAGANDA          237 

outbreak,  were  at  any  moment  ready  to  sacrifice  their  lives  for 
the  cause — worked  especially  on  the  ferment  of  discontent 
which  leavened  the  Persian  province  of  Khurasan,  where,  as 
Dinawari  tells  us  (p.  335) — 

"  They  invited  the  people  to  swear  allegiance  to  Muhammad  b. 

'Ali,  and  sought  to  disgust  them  with  the  rule  of  the  Umayyads  by 

reason  of  their  evil  conduct  and  their  grievous  tyranny. 

Dinawari  cited.     , ,  ¥_,        ,    ,  ,     ,    , 

Many  in  Khurasan  responded  to  their  call,  but  some- 
what of  their  doings  becoming  known  and  bruited  abroad  reached 
the  ears  of  Sa'id  [b.  'Abdu'l-'Aziz  b.  al-Hakam  b.  Abu'l-'As,  the 
governor  of  Khurasan].1  So  he  sent  for  them,  and  when 
they  were  brought  before  him  said,  '  Who  are  ye  ? '  '  Mer- 
chants,' they  replied.  '  And  what,'  said  he,  '  is  this  which  is  cur- 
rently reported  concerning  you  ? '  '  What  may  that  be  ? '  they  asked. 
'  We  are  informed,'  said  he,  '  that  ye  be  come  as  propagandists  for 
the  house  of  'Abbas.'  '  O  Amir,'  they  answered,  '  we  have  sufficient 
concern  for  ourselves  and  our  own  business  to  keep  us  from  such 
doings  1 '  So  he  let  them  go  ;  and  they  went  out  from  before  him, 
and,  departing  from  Merv,  began  to  journey  through  the  province  of 
Khurasan  and  the  villages  thereof  in  the  guise  of  merchants,  sum- 
moning men  unto  the  Imam  Muhammad  b.  'Ali.  Thus  they  continued 
to  do  for  two  years,  when  they  returned  to  the  Imam  Muhammad  b. 
'Ali  in  the  land  of  Syria,  and  informed  him  that  they  had  planted  in 

Khurasan  a  tree  which  they  hoped  would  bear  fruit  in 
Birth  of  Abu'l-  due  season.  And  they  found  that  there  had  been  born 

'Abbas. 

unto  him  his  son  Abu'l-'Abbas,3  whom  he  commanded 
to  be  brought  forth  unto  them,  saying,  '  This  is  your  master  ; '  and 
they  kissed  his  limbs  all  over." 

On    the   support   ot   the   oppressed    and    slighted    Persians 

especially  the    propagandists    could  reckon,  for  these  were  a 

wise  and  capable  people  with  a  great  past,  reduced 

Persian   support  ,         .  . 

of  'Abbasid      to  misery  and  treated  with  contempt  by  a  merely 

pretensions.  .  ....  .  . 

martial  race,  inferior  to  them  in  almost  every 
respect  save  personal  valour  and  love  of  independence. 

1  Called  Khuzayna  on  account  of  his  effeminate  manners.  See  Muir,  op, 
laud.,  pp.  384-386. 

a  Afterwards  called  as-Saffdh  ("  the  Shedder  of  blood  "),  who  was  the 
first  Caliph  of  the  House  of  'Abbas. 


238  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

Mukhtar  and  his  general,  Ibrahim  ibnu'l-Ashtar,  had  already 
proved  the  worth  of  the  Persians,  from  whom,  as  we  have  seen, 

their  ranks  were  largely,  indeed  chiefly,  recruited.1 
£™%?rSd  when  Furat  and  'Umayr,  officers  in  the  Syrian 
*7taSfeta?  afmy  sent  by  the  Caliph  'Abdu'l-Malik  against 

Mukhtar,  visited  Ibnu'l-Ashtar  in  his  camp,  they 
complained  that  from  the  time  they  entered  his  lines  until 
they  reached  his  presence  they  had  scarcely  heard  a  word  of 
Arabic,  and  asked  him  how  with  such  an  army  he  could  hope 
to  withstand  the  picked  troops  of  Syria. 

"By  God!"  replied  Ibnu'l-Ashtar,  "did  I  find  none  but 
ants  [as  my  allies],  yet  would  I  assuredly  give  battle  to  the 
Syrians  therewith  ;  how  then  in  the  actual  circumstances  ?  For 
there  is  no  people  endowed  with  greater  discernment  wherewith 
to  combat  them  than  these  whom  thou  seest  with  me,  who  are 
none  other  than  the  children  of  the  knights  and  satraps  of  the 
Persians."  Mukhtar  also  "  promoted  those  of  Persian  descent, 
and  assigned  gifts  to  them  and  their  children,  and  set  them  in 
high  places,  withdrawing  from  the  Arabs,  and  putting  them 
at  a  distance,  and  disappointing  them.  Thereat  were  they 
angered,  and  their  nobles  assembled,  and  came  in  unto  him, 
and  reproached  him.  But  he  answered,  "  May  God  be  remote 
from  none  but  yourselves  !  I  honoured  you,  and  you  turned 
up  your  noses,  I  gave  you  authority,  and  you  destroyed  the 
revenues  ;  but  these  Persians  are  more  obedient  to  me  than 
you,  and  more  faithful  and  swift  in  the  performance  of 
my  desire." 

There  was,  however,  another  party  whose  support  was 
needed  for  the  success  of  the  'Abbasid  propaganda,  namely, 
the  Shi'ites.  These,  holding  in  general  the  same  views  as  to 
the  rights  of  the  Family  of  the  Prophet,  yet  differed  in  detail 
as  to  which  candidate  of  that  house  had  the  better  claim. 

1  See  Dinawari,  pp.  300-302,  306,  310,  and  315. 


SECTS  OF  THE  SHPA  239 

Broadlyspeaking,they  became  divided,  on  the  death  of  al-Husayn, 
into  two  parties,  of  which  the  one  supported  his  younger 
half-brother,  Muhammad  ibnu'l-Hanafiyya,  and  the  other  his 
son  'All,  better  known  as  Zaynu'l-'Abidin. 

The  former  party,  on  the  death  of  Ibnu'l-Hanafiyya,  trans- 
ferred their  allegiance  to  his  son   Abu  Hdshim  (whence  they 
received  the  name  of  Hishimiyya).  who,  as  Van 

The  Hashimiyya    ,  t>  • 

Vloten  thinks,1  was  the  first  to  organise  a  propa- 
ganda, and  to  encourage  the  feelings  of  adoration  with  which  the 
Shi'ites  were  from  the  first  disposed  to  regard  their  Imdms  and 
the  belief  in  an  esoteric  doctrine  whereof  the  keys  were  com- 
mitted to  his  keeping.  This  Abu  Hashim  died  (poisoned,  it  is 
said,  by  the  Umayyad  Caliph  Sulaymdn) a  in  A.H.  98  (A.D.  716- 
717),  bequeathing  his  rights  to  Muhammad  b.  'All,  the  head  of 
the  House  of  'Abbas.  Thenceforth  the  Hashimiyya  and  the 
propaganda  which  they  had  organised  became  the  willing 
instruments  of  the  'Abbasids. 

The  second  party  of  the  Shi'a,  or  Imdmiyya,  were  less 
easily  attached  to  the  'Abbdsid  cause,  since  in  their  view  the 

Imam  must  be  of  the   descendants  of  'Ali  and 

The  Imamiyya.  ITF  L-       •          i     •         /  «  i' 

r  atima,  their  actual  Imam  at  this  time  being  'Ah 
Zaynu'l-'Abidin,  the  son  of  al-Husayn,  who  died  in  A.H.  99  or 
100  (A.D.  7 1 8). 3  To  secure  the  support  of  these,  the  'Abbasid 
propaganda  was  carried  on  in  the  name  of  Hdshim,  the  common 
ancestor  of  both  'Abbasids  and  'Alids,  and  only  at  the  last, 
when  success  was  achieved,  was  it  made  clear,  to  the  bitter 
disappointment  of  'All's  partisans,  that  the  House  of  'Abbas 
was  to  profit  by  their  labours  to  the  exclusion  of  the  House 
of  'All. 

So  the  propaganda  continued  actively  but  silently.  Some- 
times the  propagandists  would  be  taken  and  put  to  death  by 
the  Government,  as  happened  to  Abu  'Ikrima  and  Hayydn,  in 
whose  place,  however,  five  others  were  immediately  despatched 

1  Rccherches  sur  la  Domination  arabe,  pp.  44-45. 
*  Al-Ya'qubi  (ed.  Houtsma),  vol.  ii,  p.  356.  s  Ibid.,  p.  363. 


240  THE    VMAYYAD  PERIOD 

to  Khurasan,  with  orders  to  be  cautious  and  prudent,  and  to 
disclose  nothing  until  they  had  put  a  binding  oath  on  the 
inquirer.1  During  the  reign  of  Hisham,  while  Khalid  was 
governor  of  'Iraq,  several  strange  and  serious  outbreaks  ot 
Kharijites  and  Shi'ites  occurred,  the  leaders  of  which  were  in 
several  cases  burned  to  death.2  In  Khurasan,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  somewhat  unwise  leniency  was  shown  by  the  Caliph, 
in  spite  of  the  warnings  of  his  governor,  towards  the  'Abbasid 
propagandists^  whose  movements  were  controlled  and  directed 
by  a  council  of  twelve  naqibs  and  a  Senate  of  seventy  sub- 
ordinate chiefs.4  Now  and  then,  however,  some  dd^l  would 
break  loose  from  control  and  preach  the  wildest  doctrines  ot 
the  extreme  Shi'ites  (al-Ghulat],  as  happened  in  the  case  of 
al-Khaddash,  who  was  put  to  death  in  A.D.  736.  For  further 
information  concerning  him  and  the  Rawandis  and  Khurramis 
we  must  refer  the  reader  to  Van  Vloten's  masterly  study 
(pp.  47-51),  and  to  ch.  ix.  infra. 

About  A.D.  743,  Muhammad  b.  cAli  the  'Abbasid  died,  after 

nominating  as  his  successors  first  his  son  Ibrahim,  and  after 

him  his  other  sons  Abu'l-'Abbds  and  Abu  Ja'far, 

DeathHof '*?*?*'  of  whom  the  first  was  put  to  death  by  Marwan  II, 

mad  b.  'All.  / 

the  last  Umayyad  Caliph,  about  A.D.  747-748, 
while  the  two  others  lived  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  the  long  and 
arduous  labours  of  the  'Abbasid  propaganda,  and  to  inaugurate 
the  'Abbasid  Caliphate.  About  the  same  time,  too,  appeared 
on  the  scene  that  remarkable  man,  Abu  Muslim  who,  having 

contributed  more  than  any  one  else  to  the  over- 
Abu  Muslim.  /-ITT  i  i      L  r     i 

throw  of  the  Umayyads  and  the  victory  or  the 
'Abbasids,  himself  at  last  fell  a  victim  to  the  jealousy  ot 
those  who  owed  him  so  great  a  debt  of  gratitude. 

Everything  now  portended  that  the  final  struggle  was  at 
hand.  Marwan  II,  nicknamed  "  the  Ass "  (al-Himdr]  on 
account  of  his  endurance  in  battle,  succeeded  to  the  throne  in 

1  Dinawarf,  pp.  336-338.  •  Muir,  op.  land.,  pp.  39T~392 

3  Dinawari,  p.  338.  «  Van  Vloten,  op.  laud.,  p.  47 


PRESAGES  OF  DISASTER  241 

A.D.  745,  and  men  remembered  the  prophecy  that  in  the 
"  Year  of  the  Ass  "  deliverance  should  come,  and  that  *-Ayn  the 
son  of'Ayn  the  son  of'Ayn  ('Abdu'llah  b.  <Ali  b.  'Abdu'llah,  i.e., 
Abu'l-'Abbas,  afterwards  known  as  as-Saffah)  would  kill  Mlm  the 
son  of  Mlm  the  son  of  Mlm  ( Marwan  the  son  of  Muhammad  the 
son  of  Marwan,  the  last  Umayyad  Caliph).1  Such  dark  sayings 
were  widely  current  and  greedily  absorbed,  while  the  apocryphal 
books  of  the  Jews  and  Christians,  prophetic  poems  (malahlm\ 
and  the  like  were  eagerly  studied  by  the  long-suffering  subject- 
races,  who  felt  that  now  at  length  their  deliverance  was  at 
hand,  and  that  the  Advent  of  the  Promised  One  "  who  should 
fill  the  earth  with  justice  after  that  it  had  been  filled  with 
iniquity "  could  not  long  be  deferred.  Only  the  Caliph 
Marwan  and  his  courtiers  seemed  blind  to  the  signs  of  the 
gathering  storm,  and  that  in  spite  of  the  repeated  warnings  of 
his  lieutenants  in  the  East,  notably  Nasr  ibn 

WarnlngsofNasr  '  ' 

b.  Sayyar  to  the    bayyar,  the  governor  or  Khurasan,  who  wrote  to 

Umayyads.         .  .          ,  ,      ,  ,, 

him  that  200,000  men  had  sworn  allegiance  to 
Abu  Muslim,  and  concluded  his  letter  with  some  very  fine  and 
very  celebrated  verses,  of  which  the  translation  is  as  follows  a: — 

"/  see  amidst  the  embers  the  glow  of  fire,  and  it  wants  but  little  to 

burst  into  a  blaze, 
And  if  the  wise  ones  of  the  people  quench  it  not,  its   fuel  will  be 

corpses  and  skulls. 
Verily  fire    is    kindled   by  two   sticks,   and  verily  words  are   the 

beginning  of  warfare. 
And  I  cry  in  amazement,  '  Would  that  I  knew  whether  the  House 

of  Umayya  were  awake  or  asleep  t '  " 

To  the  Arab  garrisons  too,  torn  by  tribal  feuds  and  heedless 
of  the  impending  danger,  he  addressed  the  following  verses  3: — 

1  See  Van  Vloten,  op.  laud.,  p.  57. 

a  See  al-Fakhri,  p.  170  ;  Dinawari,  p.  356  ;  al-Ya'qubi,  vol.  ii,  p.  408  ; 
Noldeke's  Delectus  carminum  arabicorum,  pp.  87-88,  &c. 
3  Noldeke,  op.  laud.,  p.  88. 

17 


242  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

"  Tell  those  of  Rabi'a  in  Merv  and  her  brethren  *    to   rise  in  wrath 

ere  wrath  shall  avail  nothing, 
And  to  declare  war  ;  for  verily  the  people  have  raised  a  war  on 

the  skirts  of  which  the  wood  is  ablaze  I 
What  ails  you  that  ye  stir  up  strife  amongst  yourselves,  as  though 

men  of  sense  were  absent  from  among  you, 

And  neglect  an  enemy   who  already  overshadows  you,  a  hetero- 
geneous horde,  devoid  alike  of  religion  and  nobility  ? 
They  are  no  Arabs  of  ours   that  we  should  know  them,  nor  even 

decent  clients,  if  their  pedigree  be  declared, 
But  a  people  who  hold  a  faith  whereof  I  never  heard  from   the 

Prophet,  and  which  the  Scriptures  never  brought, 
And  should  one  question  me  as  to  the  essence  of  their  religion, 

verily  their  religion  is  that  the  Arabs  should  be  slain/" 

Vain,  however,  were  these  and  other  warnings.2  Khurisan 
was  seething  with  disaffection  and  revolt,  and  Abu  Muslim, 

having  assured  himself  at  length  that  all  was 
Biackla^rd  rea(ty,  raised  the  Black  Standard  3  of  the  'Abbasids 
junsTo^D1^8'  at  tne  viHag6  °f  Siqadanj,  near  Merv,  on  June  9, 

A.D.  747.  This  standard  bore  the  following 
significant  inscription  from  the  Qur'an  :  Permission  [to  fight] 
is  accorded  to  those  who  take  up  arms  because  they  have  been  unjustly 
treated"  Yet  for  a  while  the  insurrection  did  not  spread 
beyond  the  extreme  north-east  of  Khurasan,  Nasa,  Biward, 
Herdt,  Marwarudh,  and  the  surrounding  regions.  In  response 
to  the  appeal  of  Nasr  b.  Sayyar  the  Caliph  Marwan  wrote  :  4 
"  Verily  he  who  is  present  seeth  what  he  who  is  absent  seeth 
not :  do  thou,  then,  treat  this  disease  which  hath  appeared 
amongst  you  ! "  The  only  practical  step  which  it  occurred  to 
him  to  take  was  to  seize,  imprison,  and  poison  Ibrahim  the 

1  I.e.,  the  other  towns  of  Khurasan. 

2  See  the  gloomy  but  forcible  verses  of  the  poet  Harith  b.  'Abdu'llah 
al-Ja'di  and  of  the  Umayyad  prince  'Abbas   b.  al-Walid  cited  by  Van 
Vloten  (op.  laud.,  pp.  62-63)  !  also  Dinawari,  pp.  358  and  359. 

3  Concerning  the  significance  of    the  black   standards    and    apparel 
adopted  by  the  '  Abbasids  (hence  called  al-Musawwida),  see  Van  Vloten, 
op  laud.,  pp.  63-65,  and  references  there  given. 

1  Al-Fakhri,  pp.  170-171. 


THE  REVOLUTION  243 

*  Abbasid,  whereupon  his  two  brothers  Abu'l-'Abbas  and  Abu 
Ja'far,  accompanied  by  some  of  their  kinsmen,  fled  from 
al-Humayma,  their  home  in  Syria,  and  escaped  to  Kufa,  where 
they  were  concealed  and  cared  for  by  Abu  Salma  and  other 
leading  men  of  the  SM'ites. 

"  Then,"  says  al-Fakhri,1  "  there  occurred  between  Abu  Muslim 
and  Nasr  b.  Sayyar  and  the  other  Amirs  of  Khurasan  engagements 
and  battles  wherein  the  victory  was  to  the  Musawwida, 
that  is  the  army  of  Abu  Muslim,  who  were  called 
Musaitii'ida  ['  the  people  who  make  black ']  because 
the  raiment  which  they  chose  for  the  House  of  'Abbas  was  black  in 
colour.  Regard  now  the  Power  of  God  (exalted  is  He  !),  and  how, 
when  He  willeth  aught,  He  prepares  the  means  therefor,  and  how, 
when  He  desireth  anything,  nothing  can  oppose  His  command; 
So  when  He  had  decreed  that  the  dominion  should  pass  unto  the 
House  of  'Abbas,  He  prepared  for  them  all  the  means  thereto.  For 
the  Imam  Ibrahim  b.  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu'llah  b.  al-'Abbas  was  in 
Syria  or  in  the  Hijaz,  seated  on  his  prayer-mat,  occupied  with  him- 
self, his  devotions,  and  the  concerns  of  his  family,  and  not  possessed 
of  any  great  worldly  power,  while  the  people  of  Khurasan  fought 
for  him,  risking  their  lives  and  property  for  him,  though  most  of 
them  neither  knew  him,  nor  could  distinguish  between  his  name 
and  his  personality.  .  .  .  Nor  did  he  spend  on  them  any  wealth,  or 
bestow  on  any  one  of  them  horse  or  arms ;  nay  rather  it  was  they 
who  bestowed  wealth  on  him  and  brought  him  tribute  every  year. 
And  since  God  had  decreed  the  abasement  of  Marwan  and  the 
disruption  of  the  kingdom  of  the  Umayyads,  although  Marwan  was 
the  acknowledged  Caliph,  and  was  possessed  of  armies,  and  wealth, 
and  weapons,  and  worldly  goods  to  the  fullest  extent,  yet  did  men 
desert  in  all  directions  from  him,  and  his  authority  waxed  weaker, 
and  his  tenure  was  shaken,  and  he  ceased  not  being  worsted  till 
he  was  routed  and  slain." 

The  enthusiasm  of  the  Musawwida  and  their  devotion  to 
Abu  Muslim — "  homme  sombre  et  dur  que  les  jouissances  de  ce 
monde  n'occupaient  guere"2 — were  unbounded,  while  their 
obedience  was  such  that  they  would  neither  accept  ransoms 
nor  slay  the  enemy  who  lay  at  their  feet  without  the  command 

Pp.  171-172.  •  Van  Vloten,  op,  laud.,  pp.  65-68. 


244  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

of  their  chiefs.  Amongst  the  Arabs,  on  the  other  hand,  there 
was  an  utter  lack  of  enthusiasm,  patriotism,  or  loyalty  ; 
"  chacun  avait  en  vue  ses  interets  personnels  ou  tout  au  plus 
1'interet  de  sa  tribu  :  se  deVouer  pour  les  Omayades  personne 
n'y  pensait  ;  meme  s'il  faut  en  croire  Ya'qoubi,  les  Y£m£nites 
de  Merw  £taient  tout  a  fait  gagn£s  aux  sentiments  chiitiques." 
Yet  Abu  Muslim  proceeded  with  caution  and  deliberation. 
For  seven  months  he  maintained  his  army  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Merv  without  attempting  any  serious  advance,  and 
only  when  assured  of  the  support  of  the  Yamanite  Arabs  did 
he  at  length  seize  and  occupy  the  capital  of  Khurdsan.  Then 
indeed  the  insurrection  became  general1  : — 

"  They  poured  in  from  all  sides  to  join  Abu  Muslim,  from  Herat, 
Bushanj,  Marwarudh,  Talaqan,  Merv,  Nishapur,  Sarakhs,  Balkh, 
Saghaniyan,  Tukharistan,  the  country  of  the  Khuttal,  Kashsh,  and  Nasaf 
(Nakhshab).1  They  came  all  clothed  in  black,  and  carrying  clubs 
half  blackened  which  they  called  kdftr-kub  (maces  wherewith  to  beat 
the  unbelievers).3  They  kept  arriving  on  horse,  on  foot,  on  asses. 
They  urged  on  their  asses  with  cries  of  '  harra  Marwdn ! '  because 
Marwan  II  was  surnamed  'the  Ass  (al-Himdr).  They  numbered 
about  100,000  men." 

From  this  moment  till  AbuVAbbas  'Abdu'llah  as-Safdh 
(also  entitled  al-Mahdl\  first  Caliph  of  the  House  of  'Abbis, 
inaugurated  his  reign  on  October  30,  A.D.  749,  by  pronouncing 
the  khutba,  or  homily,  customary  on  such  occasions,  the  pro- 
gress of  Abu  Muslim  and  the  other  'Abbasid  leaders  was  one 
continuous  triumph.  Nasr  ibn  Sayyar — "le  seul  homme  loyal, 
et  qu'on  est  heureux  de  rencontrer  dans  ces  temps  des  perfidie 
et  d'e"goisme" — died  a  fugitive  at  Sawa  in  November,  A.D.  748  ; 
Kufa  was  occupied  by  Qahtaba  in  August,  A.D.  749  ;  in  the 
same  month  Marwan's  son  'Abdu'llah  was  utterly  routed  on 

1  Van  Vloten,  op.  laud.,  p.  67  ;  Dinawari,  p.  360. 

3  It  is  noticeable  that  Dinawari  reads  kdfar-kubdt.  Though  kdfir  is  thf 
correct  form,  kdfar  is  the  recognised  Persian  pronunciation,  as  is  shown  by 
the  words  (sar,  bar,  &c.)  with  which  it  is  made  to  rhyme  in  Persian  verses 
even  of  the  earliest  period. 


DISILLUS10NMENJ  245 

the  lesser  Zab  by  Abu  'Awn  ;  Marwin  himself  suffered  final 
and  irrevocable  defeat  on  the  river  Zab  on  January  25, 
A.D.  750  ;  Damascus,  the  Umayyad  capital,  was  occupied 
three  months  later  ;  and  Marwan,  last  Caliph  of  the  House  of 
Umayya,  a  fugitive  in  Egypt,  was  finally  taken  and  slain  on 
August  fth  of  the  same  year,  and  his  head  sent  to  Abu'l-'Abbas. 
General  massacres  of  members  of  the  Umayyad  family,  accom- 
panied in  most  cases  by  circumstances  of  inhuman  cruelty  and 
revolting  treachery,  took  place  in  the  following  year  (A.D.  751) 
in  Palestine,  at  Basra,  and  even  in  the  sacred  cities  of  Mecca 
and  Madfna.  One,  Abdu'r-Rahmdn,  the  grandson  of  Hisham, 
after  many  hairbreadth  escapes,  ultimately  made  his  way  to 
Spain,  and,  being  well  received  by  the  Arabs  there  settled, 
founded  the  Umayyad  dynasty  of  Cordova,  which  endured  for 
nearly  three  centuries  (A.D.  756-1031).  The  desecration  of 
the  tombs  of  the  Umayyad  Caliphs  at  Damascus,  and  the 
exhumation  of  their  bodies,  has  also  been  cast  as  a  reproach 
against  the  'Abbasids T  ;  but  since  this  practice  has  been  recently 
revived  by  an  English  general,  and  condoned  if  not  applauded 

by  the  majority  of  his  countrymen,  it  would  hardly 
afiSmMy°Tthet    t>eseem  us  to  denounce  it  too  violently. 
sup«voiuTion the       ^n  any  case  tne  'Abbasids,  even  when,  wading 

through  seas  of  blood,  they  had  finally  grasped  the 
Caliphate  and  become  sole  and  undisputed  masters  of  the 
Eastern  Empire  of  Islam,  were  very  far  from  "  filling  the  earth 
with  justice,"  so  that  we  find  a  poet  exclaiming3  : — 

"O  would  that  the  tyranny  of  the  children  of  Marwdn  might  return 

to  us, 

And  would   that  the  justice  of  the  children  of  ' Abbas  were   in 
hell-fire  I " 

Many  of  those  who  had  worked  most  strenuously  for  the 
revolution  were  most  bitterly  disappointed  when  it  was  an 
accomplished  fact. 3  More  especially  was  this  so  in  the  case  of 

1  Muir,  op.  laud.,  pp.  435-436. 

•  Aghdni,  xvi,  p.  84,  cited  by  Van  Vloten,  op.  lattd.,  p.  69. 

»  Van  Vloten,  op.  laud.,  p.  69, 


246  THE   UMAYYAD  PERIOD 

the  Shi'ites,  who,  misled  by  the  delusive  belief  that  by  the  term 
"  Hashimites,"  in  whose  name  the  propaganda  was  carried  on, 
the  House  of  'Ali  was  intended,  discovered,  when  it  was  too 
late,  that  not  even  in  the  Umayyads  had  the  true  descendants 
of  the  Prophet  enemies  more  implacable  than  in  their  "  Hashi- 
mite  "  cousins  of  the  House  of  'Abbas.  The  'Abbasids  did 
not  even  spare  their  own  chosen  instruments ; 

Abii  Salma  and       ..--pi  i  1  j         j 

AbuMubUmput  Abu  balma  was  treacherously  murdered  in 
A.D.  749-750 ;  and  Abu  Muslim  himself,  to 
whose  untiring  zeal,  rare  genius,  and  relentless  activity  the 
'Abbasid  triumph  was  chiefly  due,  suffered  a  like  fate  four  or 
five  years  later  (A.D.  755). r  For  him,  indeed,  in  spite  of  his 
rare  abilities,  we  can  feel  little  pity,  for  on  his  own  admission  2 
the  number  of  those  whom  he  caused  to  be  slain  in  cold  blood, 
apart  from  those  slain  in  battle,  amounted  to  100,000  persons, 
while  by  others  3  their  number  is  raised  to  600,000.  Yet  did 

he  inspire  in   his  followers   a  rare  devotion,  ex- 
immense  influ-  ,.  ii/r      i-  if      !_•  »     u 

enceof  Abu  tending  even  to  non-Muslims  :  "in  his  time,  the 
historian  tells  us,4  "the  dihqans  [Persian  landed 
proprietors]  abandoned  the  religion  of  the  Magians  and  were 
converted  to  Islam."  Speaking  of  the  Khurramis,  ultra- 
Shi'ites,  and  other  exalted  visionaries  and  syncretists,  Van 
Vloten  says  :  5  "  Many  of  them  regarded  him  as  the  only  true 
Imam  ;  it  is  even  possible  that  he  may  have  been  considered  as 
one  of  the  descendants  of  Zoroaster,  Oshederbami,  or  Oshe- 
derma,  whose  advent,  in  a  role  similar  to  that  of  the  Muham- 
madan  Mahdi,  was  expected  by  the  Magians.  These  sects 
would  not  believe  in  the  death  of  Abu  Muslim,  they  awaited 

1  All  the  Imams  of  the  Shi'ite  "  Sect  of  the  Twelve "  who  lived  in 
'  Abbasid  times  are  believed  by  their  followers  to  have  been  put  to  death 
(generally  secretly,  by  poison)  by  these  Caliphs,  with  the  exception  of  the 
twelfth,  the  Imam  Mahdi,  whom  they  believe  to  have  been  miraculously 
preserved  till  our  own  time  in  the  mysterious  City  of  Jabalqa,  whence  he 
will  come  forth  in  the  "  Trouble  of  the  Last  Time." 

a  Al-Ya'qubi,  vol.  ii,  p.  439.  3  Muir,  op.  laud.,  p.  446  ad  calc. 

*  Ibn  Abi  Tahir,  cited  by  Van  Vloten,  op.  laud.,  p.  67,  and  n.  4  ad  calc. 

s  Op.  laud.,  p.  68, 


EFFECTS   OF  THE  REVOLUTION        247 

his  return  to  fill  the  earth  with  justice.  Others  held  that  the 
Imdmate  passed  to  his  daughter  Fatima.  A  certain  Ishaq  "  the 
Turk  "  x  escaped  into  Transoxiana  after  the  death  of  Abu 
Muslim,  whose  ddH  [missionary,  or  propagandist]  he  claimed 
to  be,  and  maintained  that  his  master  was  concealed  in  the 
city  of  Ray.  Later  he  pretended  to  be  a  prophet  sent  by 
Zoroaster,  who,  according  to  him,  had  not  ceased 'to  live." 

Of  the  Khurramisor  Khurram-diniyya,  whose  essential  tenets 

appear  to  have  been  those  of  Mazdak  (see  pp.  168-172  supra), 

we  continue   to   hear   for  another  century,  and 

Thdiniylyl.am"    the  more  or  less  serious  revolts  in  Persia  headed 

by    the    pseudo-prophets    Sinbddh    the    Magian 

(A.D.  754-5),  Ustddhsis  (A.D.  766-768),  Yiisuf  al-Barm  and 

al-Muqanna'  "the  veiled  Prophet  of  Khurasan"  (A.D.  777-780), 

'All  Mazdak  (A.D.  833),  and  Babak  (A.D.  816-838)  were  in 

most  cases  associated  with  the  memory  of  Abu  Muslim. 

If  it  did  nothing  else,  however,  the  revolution  which  placed 
the  'Abbdsids  on  the  throne  entirely  altered  the  status  of  the 
Persians,  who  at  once  rose  from  the  position  of  a  despised  and 
slighted  subject-race  to  the  highest  and  most  influential  offices 
and  commands.  It  was  their  swords  which  won  the  victory 
for  the  House  of  'Abbas,  whom  al-Birum,  not  without  good 
reason,  calls  "a  Khurasanf,  an  Eastern  dynasty  "; 2  and  it  may 
truly  be  said  that  Qadisiyya  and  Nahdwand  were  avenged  on 
the  banks  of  the  Zab.  The  fall  of  the  Umayyads  was  the  end 
of  the  purely  Arabian  period.3 

1  As  explained  in  the  Fihrist  (p.  345)  he  was  called  "  the  Turk "  only 
because  he  carried  on  his  propaganda  in  the  Turkish  lands. 

3  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations,  Sachau's  transl.,  p.  197. 

3  See  the  text  (pp.  69-70)  and  translation  (pp.  31-32)  of  the  remarkable 
poem  given  by  Von  Kremer  in  his  Streifzuge.  The  Arab  poet  bitterly 
complains  of  the  haughty  arrogance  assumed  by  the  Persian  and  Naba- 
thean  mawltis,  or  "  clients,"  who  were  formerly  so  humble. 


BOOK    III 

ON    THE   EARLY   'ABBASID   PERIOD,    OR 
GOLDEN  AGE    OF  ISLAM 


CHAPTER  VII 

GENERAL  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF  ISLAM 
(A.D.  749-847),  FROM  THE  ACCESSION  OF  AS-SAFFAH 
TO  THE  DEATH  OF  A 


THE    general    characteristics   of    the   'Abbdsid    dynasty,   and 

the  nature  of  the  forces  which  contributed  to  its  establishment 

and  the  overthrow  of  the  Umayyads,  have  been  to 

General  charac-  ..  .    .          ,        .  ,  r,. 

teristics  of  the    some  extent    discussed  in    the  last  chapter.     Sir 

William  Muir,  in  the  short  introductory  remarks 

which   he  prefixes   to   his   account   of  this   illustrious   house 

(op.  laud.,  pp.  430-432)  emphasises  three  features  in  particular 

wherein  this  period  differs  from  the  last  ;  firstly, 

Ch^ra£t7ei??e^  by  that  the  Caliphate  was  no  longer  coextensive  with 

Sir  \V.  Muir. 

the  limits  of  Islam  (since  Spain  never  accepted 
'Abbasid  rule,  and  the  allegiance  of  Africa  was  fitful  and 
imperfect)  ;  secondly,  that  the  martial  vigour  of  the  Arabs 
declined  along  with  their  fervent  faith,  and  that  they  ceased 
to  play  the  predominant  role  in  the  history  of  Islam  j  thirdly, 
that  Persian,  and  later  Turkish,  influences  became  all-powerful 
at  the  centre  of  government,  now  transferred  from  Syria 
to  clrdq. 

"With  the  rise  of  Persian  influence,"  he  adds  (p.  432),  "the 
roughness  of  Arab  life  was  softened  ;  and  there  opened  an  era 
of  culture,  toleration,  and  scientific  research.  The  practice  of  oral 
tradition  was  also  giving  place  to  recorded  statement  and  historical 
narrative,  —  a  change  hastened  by  the  scholarly  tendencies  introduced 
from  the  East.  To  the  same  source  may  be  attributed  the  evcr- 

251 


252  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

increasing  laxity  at  Court  of  manners  and  morality  ;  and  also  those 
transcendental  views  that  now  sprung  up  of  the  divine  Imamate,  or 
spiritual  leadership,  of  some  member  of  the  House  of  'Ali ;  as  well 
as  the  rapid  growth  of  free  thought.  These  things  will  be  developed 
as  we  go  on.  But  I  have  thought  it  well  to  draw  attention  at 
this  point  to  the  important  changes  wrought  by  the  closer  con- 
nection of  the  Caliphate  with  Persia  and  Khurasan  caused  by 
the  accession  of  the  'Abbasids." 

In  a  similar  strain  Dozy  writes1: — 

"The  ascendancy  of  the  Persians  over  the  Arabs,   that  is  to 
say  of  the  conquered  over   the  victors,  had  already  for   a  long 

while  been  in  course  of  preparation ;  it  became 
CharaDoeznySedby  complete  when  the  'Abbasids,  who  owed  their 

elevation  to  the  Persians,  ascended  the  throne.  These 
princes  made  it  a  rule  to  be  on  their  guard  against  the  Arabs, 
and  to  put  their  trust  only  in  foreigners,  Persians,3  especially 
those  of  Khurasan,  with  whom,  therefore,  they  had  to  make  friends. 
The  most  distinguished  personages  at  court  were  consequently 
Persians.  The  famous  Barmecides  were  descended  from  a  Persian 
noble  who  had  been  superintendent  of  the  Fire-temple  at  Balkh. 
Afshin,  the  all-powerful  favourite  of  the  Caliph  al-Mu'tasim,  was 
a  scion  of  the  princes  of  Usrushna  in  Transoxiana.  The  Arabs, 
it  is  true,  murmured,  and  endeavoured  to  regain  their  ancient 
preponderance.  The  war  which  broke  out  between  the  two 
brothers  al-Amm  and  al-Ma'mun,  the  sons  of  Harunu'r-Rashid, 
was  in  its  essence  merely  the  renewal  of  the  war  waged  between 
the  Arab  and  Persian  nationalities  for  the  supremacy.  But  the 
Arabs  again  experienced  a  check ;  again,  cost  them  what  it  might, 
they  had  to  recognise  the  supremacy  of  Persia ;  again  they  were 
compelled  to  watch  as  passive  spectators  a  change  of  government 
dependent  on  the  defeat  of  one  of  these  races  by  the  other  and 
resulting  from  it.  The  democratic  point  of  view  of  the  Arabs  was, 
indeed,  replaced  by  the  despotic  ideas  of  the  Persians." 

"  Know,"  says    that    charming    historian    al-Fakhri,'  "  that    the 
'Abbasid  dynasty  was  a  treacherous,  wily,  and  faithless  dynasty, 

wherein  intrigue  and  guile  played  a  greater  part 
Characfcrtwdby  than  strength  and  energy,  particularly  in  its  latter 

days.    Indeed   the   later  rulers  of    this    House   lost 


Hist,  de  I'lslamisme  translated  by  Victor  Chauvin,  pp.  228-229. 
•  See  Tabari's  Annals,  iii,  1142.  3  £d.  Ahhvardt,  pp.  176-177. 


CHARACTER   OF  'ABBASID  RULE       253 

all  faculty  of  energy  and  courage,  and  relied  solely  on  tricks 
and  stratagems.  To  this  effect  speaks  the  poet  Ibn  Kushajim,1 
alluding  to  the  truce  observed  by  the  people  of  the  sword  and 
the  hostility  and  enmity  of  the  people  of  the  pen  one  to  another  : — 

'  Pleasant  to  the  people  of  the  sword  be  that  idleness 
Whereby  their  days  are  passed  in  self-indulgence  f 
How  many  a  man  is  there  amongst  them  who  lives  a   tranquil 

life,  and  has  never  stirred  forth 

To  any  war,  nor  ever  attacked  a  resolute  and  equal  adversary  I 
Evening  and  morning  he  struts  about,  girding  to  his  sword-belt 
A  sword  secure  from  serious  work,  which  has  never  risked 

fracture. 

But  as  for  the  people  of  the  pen,  at  no  moment 
Are  their  swords  dry  of  blood' 

"  In  the  same  strain  sang  a  certain  poet  when  al-Mutawakkil 
slew  his  minister  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu'l-Malik  az-Zayyat : — 

'  The  heart  was  like  to  leave  me  for  distress 
When  it  was  said,  "  The  Wazir  is  slain  ! " 
O  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  thou  hast  slain  one 
Who  was  the  axle  on  which  your  mill  revolved/ 
Gently,  O  sons  of  al-'Abbds,  gently  f 
For  in  truth  men's  hearts-  burn  at  your  treachery  t 

"  Yet  withal  it  was  a  dynasty  abounding  in  good  qualities, 
richly  endowed  with  generous  attributes,  wherein  the  wares  of 
Science  found  a  ready  sale,  the  merchandise  of  Culture  was  in 
great  demand,  the  observances  of  Religion  were  respected, 
charitable  bequests  flowed  freely,  the  world  was  prosperous, 
the  Holy  Shrines  were  well  cared  for,  and  the  frontiers  were 
bravely  kept.  Nor  did  this  state  of  things  cease  until  its  last 
days  were  at  hand,  and  violence  became  general,  government 
was  disturbed,  and  empire  passed  from  them,  all  of  which  will 
be  set  forth  in  its  proper  place,  if  God  please." 

As  it  is  not  my  intention  to  discuss  in  detail  the  reigns 
or  characters  of  the  Caliphs  of  this  House,  or  to  repeat 
anecdotes  of  Harunu'r-Rashid's  nocturnal  rambles  through 

1  Abu'1-Fath  Mahmud  b.  al-Husayn  b.  Shahaq,  called  as-Sindi, 
because  of  his  Indian  descent,  died  961  or  971.  See  Brockelmann's 
Arab.  Literatnrgesch.,  p.  85,  and  p.  371  infra. 


254          THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

the  streets  of  Baghdad  in  the  company  of  Ja'far  the  Barmecide 
and  Masrur  the  black  executioner,  which  are  familiar  to  all 
readers  of  the  Thousand  and  One  Nights,  and  of  which  a  copious 
selection  will  be  found  in  the  late  Professor  Palmer's  enter- 
taining little  volume  on  that  celebrated  monarch,1  I  here 
append,  for  the  convenience  of  the  reader,  a  table  of  the 
'Abbasid  Caliphs  of  this  earlier  period,  adapted  from  Stanley 
Lane-Poole's  excellent  Muhammadan  Dynasties  (London,  1894). 

•Ali  b.  'Abdu'Mh  b.  'ABBAS 
I 


Muhammad 

1 

•Abdu'lldh                           Mi 

sd                     Sulaymdn 
1 

IbrdMm 

I.  -Sat'tah 

2. 

3 

-Mansur                    '** 

-Mahdi 
1 

4.  -Hadi 

5- 

-Rashid                             -Ma 
\ 

njut                             Ibrahim 

1 
6.  -Aniiu 

7.  -Ma'mun 

8 

1 

-Mu'tasim 
1     ' 

Muhammad          9.  -Wathiq  10.  -Mutawakkil 


I    .  |  J 

2.  -Musta'in        14.  -Muhtadi        n.  -Muntasir     13.  -Mu 


'tazz     15.  Mu'tamid     -Muwaffaq 
Ibnu'l-Mu'lazs  16.  -Mu'tadid 


The  first  century  of  the  dynasty,  from  its  establishment  till 
the  death  of  al-Wathiq  and  accession  of  al-Mutawakkil 
(A.H.  132-232  =  A.D.  750-847),  will  chiefly  be  dealt  with 
in  this  Third  Book.  It  is  the  Golden  Age  of  the  Caliphate, 
and  is  characterised  by  the  ascendancy  of  Persian  influence, 
typified  in  the  celebrated  and  noble  Barmecides  (descendants  of 
Barmak),  by  the  wit  and  learning  so  much  in  fashion  at 
the  Court,  and  by  the  complete  dominance  of  the  broad  and 
liberal  Mu'tazilite  doctrines  in  the  field  of  religion.  With 
the  accession  of  the  tenth  Caliph,  al-Mutawakkil,  Turkish 
influences  (always  somewhat  barbarous  in  many  aspects,  and 
seldom  favourable  to  free  thought  and  enlightened  intellec- 

1  New  Plutarch  series,  Haronn  Alraschid,  London,  1881. 


THE  OFFICE   OF   WAZtR  255 

tuality)  largely  displaced  Persian  ;  the  Mu'tazilite  doctrine, 
no  longer  patronised  by  Royalty,  was  supplanted  by  what 
now  passes  current  as  orthodoxy,  to  the  great  detriment  of 
philosophical  speculation  ;  and  for  a  time  a  violent  anti-Shicite 
bias  was  displayed.  This  earlier  period  of  the  'Abbdsid 
Caliphate  is  therefore  well  defined,  both  in  respect  to  racial 
dominance  and  religious  tendencies,  and  reached  its  culminating 
point  in  the  splendid  reign  of  al-Ma'mun,  whose  mother  x 
and  wife  2  were  both  Persians,  and  whose  ministers,  favourites, 
and  personal  characteristics  were,  for  the  most  part,  Persian 
also.  "  We  have  seen,"  says  Professor  Palmer,  "  how  the 
Arabs  perforce  left  the  actual  administration  of  the  conquered 
countries  in  the  hands  of  native  officials.  The  'Abbdsids 
owing  their  rise  entirely  to  Persian  influence,  it  was  only 
natural  that  Persian  counsels  should  prevail,  and  we  accord- 
ingly find  a  minister  of  Persian  extraction  at  the  head  of 
affairs,  and  the  Caliphate  carried  on  by  almost  precisely 
the  same  machinery  as  that  by  which  the  Empire  of  the 
Sdsinians  was  governed." 

To   this   machinery    belonged,  amongst    other  things,  the 

office  of  JiTazlr  (of  which  "  Vizier  "  is  the  commoner,  though 

less   correct,    form    in    English    books),    a  word 

^SS^S^Sf^  commonly  derived  from  the  Arabic  root  wizr  "  a 

otncc  01    Witzir.  * 

burden,"  because  the  Wazir  bears  the  burden  of 
administration,  but  probably  identical  in  reality,  as  Darmesteter 
has  shown,3  with  the  Pahlawi  vi-chlr  (from  vl-chira^  "  to 

1  "  Much,"  says  von  Kremer   (Cult.  Streifznge,  p.  41   ad    calc.),   "  is 
explained  by  the  circumstance  that  Ma'mun's  mother  was  a  Persian,  a 
statement   which    is    found    in  an    ancient    and  well-informed    author 
(de  Goeje,  Fragm.  Hist.  Arab.,  I,  350)." 

2  Piiran,  the  daughter  of  Hasan  b.  Sahl,  and  niece  of  the  celebrated 
Fadl  b.  Sahl,  al-Ma'mun's  wazir.    The  gorgeous  ceremonies  observed  in 
connection  with  her  marriage  are  detailed  by  Ibn  Khallikan  (de  Slane's 
translation,    vol.    i,    pp.     268-270),    and    in     the    Latd'ifu'l-Ma'iiii/  of 
ath-Tha'alibi  (ed.  de  Jong,  pp.  73-74). 

»  £tndes  iraniennes,  vol.  i,  p.  58,  and  n,  3  ad.  calc. 


256          THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

decide  "),  gaztr  in  the  Talmud.     Of  the  history  of  this  office 
al-Fakhrf  x  gives  the  following  account  : — 

"  Before  entering  more  fully  into  this  matter,  we  must  needs  say  a 
few  prefatory  words  on  this  subject.  I  say,  then,  that  the  Wazir  is 
.,„,.,  one  who  is  intermediate  between  the  king  and 

Al-Fakhn  on  the  .  & 

history  of  this  his  subjects,  so  there  must  needs  be  in  his  nature 
one  aspect  which  accords  with  the  natures  of  kings, 
and  another  aspect  which  accords  with  the  natures  of  the 
common  folk,  so  that  he  may  deal  with  both  classes  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  secure  for  himself  acceptance  and  affection  ;  while 
trustworthiness  and  sincerity  constitute  his  capital.  It  is  said, 
'  When  the  ambassador  plays  the  traitor,  policy  avails  naught ; '  and 
it  is  also  said,  'The  man  belied  hath  no  opinion  ;'"  so  it  is  important 
for  him  to  be  efficient  and  vigorous,  and  necessary  that  he  should 
possess  intelligence,  wariness,  cunning,  and  resolution.  It  is  like- 
wise needful  that  he  should  be  generous  and  hospitable,  that  thereby 
he  may  incline  men's  necks  to  his  yoke,  and  that  his  thanks  may  be 
on  the  tongues  of  all ;  nor  can  he  dispense  with  gentleness,  patience, 
stability  in  affairs,  clemency,  dignity,  gravity,  and  an  authoritative 
address.  .  .  .  Now  the  rules  of  the  Wazirate  were  not  fixed,  nor  the 
laws  which  govern  it  set  in  order,  before  the  dynasty  of  the 
'Abbasids.  Before  that  time  its  rules  were  indeterminate  and  its 
laws  unsettled  ;  nay,  rather  each  king  was  surrounded  by  certain 
courtiers  and  retainers,  and,  when  any  important  crisis  arose,  he 
took  counsel  of  such  as  were  most  sagacious  and  wise  in  council, 
each  of  whom,  therefore,  acted  as  Wazir.  But  when  the  'Abbasids 
came  to  the  throne,  the  laws  of  the  Wazirate  were  fixed,  and  the 
Wazir  was  named  Wazir,  having  hitherto  been  entitled  Secretary 
(Kdtib],  or  Counsellor  (Mushir).  Lexicographers  say  that  u-azar 
means  'a  place  of  refuge,'  'an  asylum,'  and  that  wizr  means 
'  burden,'  so  that  Wazir  is  either  derived  from  wizr,  in  which  case 
it  means  that  he  '  bears  the  burden,'  or  from  wazar,  in  which  case 
it  means  that  the  king  has  recourse  to  his  judgment  and  counsel." 

But  the  office  of  Wazir,  for  all  the  power  and  dignity  which 

it   carried    with    it,    was   a    perilous   one.      Abu 

KTheCofficaeC:  Muslim,    entitled    Aminu    All   Muhammad,   "the 

Trusted  Agent  of  the  Family  of  Muhammad,"  was, 

*  Ed.  Ahlwardt,  pp.  179-181. 

"  I.e.,  No  heed  is  paid  to  the  views  or  statements  of  one  who  has  been 
proved  a  liar. 


THE  OFFICE   OF   WAZ/R  257 

as  we  have  seen,  treacherously  murdered  by  al-Mansiir  (A.D. 
754-755),  after  he  himself  had,  by  order  of  as-SafFah,  caused 
Abu  Salama,  who  first  bore  the  title  of  /i^/z/r,  to  be 
assassinated  (A.D.  749-750).  Abu'1-Jahm,  who  succeeded 
him,  was  poisoned  by  his  master.  Feeling  the  poison  work 
within  him,  he  rose  up  to  leave  the  room.  "Whither  away  ? " 
asked  the  Caliph.  "  To  where  thou  hast  sent  me,"  answered 
the  unfortunate  minister.1  His  death  coincided  with  the  rise 
to  power  of  the  great  and  noble  Persian  family 

The  Barmecides.  r  &  / 

of  the  Barmecides,  or  descendants  of  rJarmak, 
who  for  fifty  years  (A.D.  752-804)  so  wisely  directed  the  affairs 
of  the  Caliphate,  and,  by  their  generous  patronage  of  learning, 
lavish  hospitality,  and  wise  administration,  conferred  such  lustre 
upon  the  reigns  of  the  first  five  'AbbAsid  Caliphs,  till  the  in- 
sensate jealousy  of  Kuriinu'r-Rashid  led  him  to  destroy  Ja'far 
and  al-Fadl,  the  sons  of  Yahyi,  the  son  of  Khalid,  the  son  of 
Barmak,  and  many  members  of  their  family.  Barmak,  their 
ancestor,  was  a  Magian,  and  the  high  priest  of  the  great  Fire- 
Temple  of  Nawbahar  at  Balkh.  Mas'udi  tells  us  (Murujudh- 
Dhabab,  iv,  48)  that — 

"He  who  exercised  these  functions  was  respected  by  the  kings  of 
tliis  country,  and  administered  the  wealth  offered  to  the  temple. 
He  was  called  Barmak,  a  name  given  to  all  those  invested  with 
this  dignity,  whence  is  derived  the  name  of  the  Barmecides 
(Barmaki,  pi.  Bardmika) ;  for  Khalid  b.  Barmak  was  the  son  of 
one  of  these  great  pontiffs." 

In  support  of  this  view  that  Barmak  was  really  a  title  rather 
than  a  name  we  may  also  cite  the  words  of  the  geographer 
al-Qazwini  (Athari* t  l-Bildd ',  pp.  221-222,  s.v.,  Balkh)  : — 

"The  Persians  and  Turks  used  to  revere  it  [the  Temple  of 
Nawbahar]  and  perform  pilgrimages  to  it,  and  present  offerings  to 
it.  Its  length  was  one  hundred  cubits,  its  breadth  the  same,  and  its 


1  Al-Fakhri  (ed.  Ahlwardt,  pp.  183-4). 

18 


258  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

height  somewhat  more,  and  the  care  of  it  was  invested  in  the 
Bardmika.  The  Kings  of  India  and  China  used  to  come  to  it,  and 
when  they  reached  it  they  worshipped  the  idol,  and  kissed  Barmak's 
hand,  and  Barmak's  rule  was  paramount  in  all  these  lands.  And 
they  ceased  not,  Barmak  after  Barmak,  until  Khurasan  was  con- 
quered in  the  days  of  'Uthman  b.  'Affan,  and  the  guardianship  of 
the  temple  came  at  length  to  Barmak  the  father  of  Khalid." 

The  Barmecides  naturally  used  their  great  influence  in  favour 
of  their  compatriots,  but  they  had  to  be  careful  lest  a  too 
evident  partiality  for  the  institutions  of  Persia  should  bring 
them  under  suspicion  of  being  still  at  heart  Magians.  Thus, 
whilst  engaged  in  constructing  his  new  capital  of  Baghdad,  the 
Caliph  al-Mansur  was  advised  by  Abu  Ayyiib  al-Muriyani  to 
destroy  the  Sasanian  palace  known  as  Ayw&n-i-Kisra,  and 
utilise  the  material  for  building  purposes.  He  consulted 
Khalid  b.  Barmak,  who  replied,  "Do  not  this  thing,  O 
Commander  of  the  Faithful,  for  verily  it  is  a  sign  of  the 
triumph  of  Islam,  for  when  men  see  it  they  know  that  only  a 
heavenly  dispensation  could  destroy  the  like  of  this  building, 
besides  which  it  was  the  place  of  prayer  of 'All  b.  Abu  Talib. 
The  expense  of  destroying  it  is,  moreover,  greater  than  what 
will  be  gained  thereby."  "  O  Khalid,"  answered  al-Mansur, 
"  thou  hast  naught  but  partiality  for  all  that  is  Persian  !  " 
Khalid's  prophecy  as  to  the  labour  and  expense  involved  in  its 
destruction  proved,  however,  to  be  correct,  and  so  one  day  the 
Caliph  said  to  him,  "O  Khalid,  we  have  come  over  to  thine 
opinion,  and  have  abandoned  the  destruction  of  the  palace." 
"  O  Commander  of  the  Faithful,"  said  Khalid,  "  I  advise  thee 
now  to  destroy  it,  lest  men  should  say  that  thou  wert  unable 
to  destroy  what  another  built  !  "  Fortunately,  however,  the 
Caliph  again  refused  to  follow  his  advice  (given,  no  doubt, 
from  prudential  motives,  on  account  of  what  the  Caliph  had 
said  to  him  before),  and  the  demolition  of  the  palace  was 
suspended.1 

1  Al-Fakhri,  pp.  185,  186  ;  Tabari,  ser.  iii,  p.  320 


REVIVAL   OF  PERSIAN  CUSTOMS      259 

Another    old     Persian     custom    reintroduced     very    early 

in    the  'Abbdsid    period    was   the  observance  of  the   Festival 

of  the  New  Year    (Nawruz)*  the    first    day   of 

Revival  of    Per-  . 

sian  festival  of    the    Persian  solar  year,    corresponding:    with  the 

Nawruz.  ' 

vernal  equinox  and  the  entry  of  the  sun  into 
the  sign  of  Aries. 

"In  the  time  of  Harunu'r-Rashi'd,"  says  al-Birunf,1  "the  land- 
holders assembled  again  and  called  on  Yahya  the  son  of  Khalid  the 
son  of  Barmak,  asking  him  to  postpone  the  Nawruz  by  about  two 
months.*  Yahya  intended  so  to  do,  but  then  his  enemies  began  to 
speak  of  the  subject,  and  said,  '  He  is  partial  to  Zoroastrianism.' 
So  he  dropped  the  subject,  and  the  matter  remained  as  it  was 
before." 

Von  Kremer,  in  those  admirable  works  which  we  have 
already  so  often  had  occasion  to  cite,  treats  fully  of  the  Persian 
influences  which  were  everywhere  active,  and  which  so  largely 
moulded  not  only  the  organisation  of  the  Church  and  State, 
but,  in  'Abbdsid  times,  even  the  fashions  of  dress,  food,  music 
and  the  like. 

"Persian  influence,"  he  says,3  "increased  at  the  Court  of  the 
Caliphs,  and  reached  its  zenith  under  al-Hadi,  Hariinu'r-Rashid,  and 
al-Ma'mun.  Most  of  the  ministers  of  the  last  were  Persians  or  of 

Persian  extraction.  In  Baghdad  Persian  fashions 
opt°edS  continued  to  enjoy  an  increasing  ascendancy.  The 

old  Persian  festivals  of  the  Nawruz,  Mihrgan,  and 
Ram  were  celebrated.  Persian  raiment  was  the  official  court  dress, 
and  the  tall,  black,  conical  Persian  hats  (qalanstiwa,  pi.  qaldnis)  .  .  . 
were  already  prescribed  as  official  by  the  second  'Abbasid  Caliph 
(in  A.H.  153  =  A.D.  770).  At  the  court  the  customs  of  the  Sasanian 
kings  were  imitated,  and  garments  decorated  with  golden  inscrip- 
tions were  introduced,  which  it  was  the  exclusive  privilege  of  the 
ruler  to  bestow.  A  coin  of  the  Caliph  al-Mutawakkil  shows  us  this 
Prince  actually  clothed  in  true  Persian  fashion." 


1  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations  (Sachau's  trans.),  p.  37- 
9  The  abolition  of  the  old  system  of  intercalation  having  caused  it  to 
recede,  so  that  it  fell  at  a  time  before  the  crops  were  ripe,  thus  causing 
much  loss  to  the  farmers,  since  the  taxes  had  to  be  paid  at  this  time. 
3  Streifziige,  pp.  32-33. 


260          THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

But  it  Persian  influences  were  thus  dominant  at  the 
'Abbasid  court,  and  Persian  fashions  thus  prevalent  amongst 
its  frequenters,  the  activity  of  this  talented  people  was  even 
more  conspicuous  in  the  realm  of  literature  and  science. 

"  Not  only  in  the  government  are  the  foreigners  always  to  the 
front,'1  says  Goldziher  in  the  illuminating  chapter  'Arab  und  'Ajam 
(Arabs  and  Persians)  in  his  Muhammedanische  Studicn  (vol.  i,  p.  109) ; 
"  we  find  them  also  in  the  foremost  ranks  even  in  the  specifically 
religious  sciences.  '  It  almost  seems,'  says  von  Kremer,1  that  these 
scientific  studies  (Reading  and  Exegesis  of  the  Qur'an,  Sciences  of 
Tradition  and  Law),  were,  during  the  first  two  centuries  [of  the 
hijra],  principally  worked  by  clients  \_Mawdll,  i.e.,  non-Arab 
Muslims],  while  the  Arabs  proper  felt  themselves  more  drawn  to  the 
study  of  their  ancient  poetry,  and  to  the  development  and  imitation 
of  the  same ;  but,  we  would  add,  even  in  this  field  they  were  often 
outstripped  by  the  foreigners,  whose  men  of  learning  in  no  small 
degree  advanced  this  sphere  of  the  Arabian  genius  by  literary 
and  historical  studies  on  the  antiquities  of  the  Arabs,  by  thorough 
critical  researches,  and  so  forth.  It  would  be  superfluous  to  ciie 
here  the  many  names  whereof  the  mere  sound  affords  proof  of 
what  Arabic  Grammar  and  Lexicology  owe  to  non-Arabs,  and  even 
if  we  cannot  permit  Paul  de  Lagarcle's  assertion  a  that  '  of  the 
Muhammadans  who  have  achieved  anything  in  Science,  not  one  was 
a  Semite '  to  pass  in  this  absolute  form,  yet  so  much  at  least  may 
be  said,  that  alike  in  the  specially  religious  studies  as  in  those 
which  grew  up  round  the  study  of  the  Arabic  speech,  the  Arabian 
element  lagged  far  behind  the  non- Arabian.  And  this  was 
principally  the  fault  of  the  Arabs  themselves.  They  looked  down 
with  sovereign  contempt  on  the  studies  so  zealously  prosecuted 
by  the  non-Arabs,  considering  that  such  trivialities  were  unworthy 
of  men  who  could  boast  so  proud  an  ancestry,  but  befitted  only  the 
pedagogue,  anxious  to  gloss  over  with  such  pigments  his  dingy 
genealogy.  ./It  befits  not  the  Qurayshites  ' — in  such  words  a  full- 
blooded  Arab  expresses  himself — '  to  go  deeply  into  any  study 
save  that  of  the  old  histories  [of  the  Arabs],  especially  now,  when 
one  has  to  bend  the  bow  and  attack  the  enemy.' 3  Once  a  Qurayshite, 


1  Culturgesch.  Streifznge,  p.  16.  *  Gesammelte  Abhandl.,  p.  8,  n.  4. 

3  Cited  from  the  Kitdbu'l-Bayan  wa't-Tabyin  of  al-Jahidh.  This  work 
has  now  been  printed  at  Cairo  (A.H.  1313 =A.D.  1895-6),  but  Goldziher  used 
it  in  manuscript,  as  he  wrote  in  or  before  1889.  He  also  refers  to  the 


CONTEMPT  OF  ARABS  FOR  LETTERS    261 

observing  an  Arab  child  studying  the  Book  of  Sibawayhi,1  could 
not  refrain  from  exclaiming,  '  Fie  upon  thee  !  That  is  the  learning 
of  schoolmasters  and  the  pride  of  beggars  ! '  For  it  was  reckoned 
as  a  jest  that  any  one  who  was  a  grammarian,  prosodist,  accountant 
or  jurist  (for  the  science  last  mentioned  arithmetic  is  indispensable) 
would  give  instruction  in  these  subjects  to  little  children  for 
sixty  dirhams  (for  what  length  of  time  is  not,  unfortunately,  men- 
tioned)." 

The  Arabs  of  the  Jahiliyyat,  or  pagan  time,  were,  as  Gold- 
ziher  fully  shows,  so  little  familiar  with  the  art  of  writing 

(save  in  the  case  of  those  who  had  come  under 

^tekndendersry    Jewish,  Christian,  Greek,  or  Persian  influences) 

apurenfrabs?     tnat  an  °^  Poet  distinguishes  a  wise  man  from 

whom  he  cites  a  sentence  as  "he  who  dictates 
writing  on  parchment,  whereon  the  scribe  writes  it  down ; " 
and  that  even  in  the  Prophet's  time  they  were  not  much  more 
literate  is  shown,  as  he  says,  not  only  by  the  strange  materials 
on  which  the  Qur'an  was  inscribed,  but  also  by  the  fact  that 
those  taken  captive  at  the  Battle  of  Badr  could,  if  they  pos- 
sessed a  knowledge  of  writing,  obtain  their  liberty  without 
paying  any  further  ransom.  Al-Waqidi,  cited  by  al-Baladhuri 
(Futlthu  l-Buldbn^  ed.  de  Goeje,  pp.  471-72),  expressly 
states  that  in  the  early  days  of  Islam  only  seventeen  men 
of  the  tribe  of  Quraysh,  the  aristocracy  of  Mecca,  could 
write ;  and  he  enumerates  them  by  name,  including  amongst 
them  'Umar,  'All,  « Uthman,  Ibnu'l-Janah,  Talha,  Abu 
Sufyan,  and  his  son  Mu'awiya.  Dhu'r-Rumma,  who  is 
regarded  as  the  last  of  the  old  Bedouin  poets  (died  between 
A.D.  719  and  735),  had  to  conceal  the  fact  that  he  was  able 
to  write,2  "  because,"  said  he,  "  it  is  regarded  as  a  disgrace 
amongst  us." 

similar  narratives  from  other  sources  given  by  von  Kremer  in  vol.  ii  of  his 
Culturgcschichte,  p.  159. 

1  This  celebrated  Persian  grammarian  died  about  A.D.  795.  His  work 
— "  the  oldest  systematic  representation  of  Arabian  Grammar  " — is  called 
"  The  Book  "  (al-Kitf.b)  par  excellence. 

9  Goldziher,  Multam.  Stud.,  vol.  i,  p.  112. 


262 

The  Persians,  on  the  other  hand,  even  in  early  Sasanian 
times,  included  a  knowledge  of  writing  (daplrih}  amongst 
the  accomplishments  proper  to  a  prince,1  and  many  of  them 
seem  to  have  also  possessed  a  good  knowledge  of  Arabic  before 
the  days  of  Islam.  ^Thus  King  Bahrain  Gur  (A.D.  420-438), 
who  was  educated  by  Mundhir  amongst  the  Arabs  of  Hira, 
was  instructed  in  the  Persian,  Arabic,  and  even  Greek  lan- 
guages and  writings,2  and  poems  in  Arabic  ascribed  to  him  are 
cited  in  <A  wfi's  Lubdbu  U-Albab.l  Khurra-Khusraw,  the  Persian 
satrap  of  Yemen  about  the  time  of  the  Prophet, "  became  fully 
Arabicised  ;  he  recited  Arabic  poems,  and  educated  himself  in 
the  Arabian  fashion  ;  these  Arab  tendencies  of  his  ('  ta'arrubuhu* 
says  our  source)  were  the  primary  cause  of  his  recall."  4 

"  There  are  also  named,"  continues  Goldziher,  "  amongst  the 
doctors  of  the  religion  of  Islam  men  of  Persian  origin  whose 
ancestors  did  not  through  Islam  first  come  in  contact  with  Arab 
life,  but  who  belonged  to  those  Persian  troops 5  who,  under  Sayf  b. 
Dhu  Yazan,  became  settled  in  Arabian  lands.  In  Islam  the  Arabi- 
cisation  of  the  non-Arabian  elements  and  their  participation  in  the 
learned  world  of  the  Muhammadan  community  underwent  a  rapid 
development,  to  which  the  history  of  the  civilisation  of  mankind 
affords  but  few  parallels.  Towards  the  end  of  the  first  century 
[of  the  hijra]  we  find  in  Madi'na  a  grammarian  named  Bushkast, 
a  name  which  sounds  altogether  Persian ;  and  we  find  this  gram- 
marian, who  busied  himself  with  imparting  instruction  in  his  science, 


1  NSldeke's  Gesch.  des  Artachshir-i-Papakiin,  p.  38,  and  n.  3  ad  calc. 
"  Noldeke's  Gesch.  d.  Sasanidcn,  pp.  86-88  ;  Dfnawari,  p.  53. 

3  Of  the  two  MSS.  of  this  rare  work  known  to  exist,  one  is  in  the  Berlin 
Library,  while  the  other  till  lately  belonged  to  Lord  Crawford,  who  most 
generously  allowed  the  writer  to  borrow  it  for  a  protracted  period.    In 
August,  1901,  it  was  sold  with  his  other  Oriental  MSS.  to  Mrs.  Rylands  of 
Manchester,  and  is  now  in  the  John  Rylands  Library. 

4  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  p.  113.     In  a  footnote  he  adds,  "  Firuz  ad-Daylami 
(died  in  the  Caliphate  of  'Uthman),  who  belonged  to  the  Prophet's  time, 
is  also  to  be  mentioned.     Cf.  Ibn  Qutayba  (ed.  Wiistenfeld),  p.  170." 

*  Goldziher,  loc.  cit.,  n.  2  ad  calc.  Concerning  these  Banu'l-Ahrdr 
("  Sons  of  the  Nobles  "),  he  refers  to  the  Kih'ibu  'l-Agluini,  xvi,  p.  76  ;  Ibn 
Hisham's  Life  of  the  Prophet,  pp.  44-46  ;  and  Noldeke's  Gesch.  d.  Sasaniden, 
p.  223. 


LITERARY  PRE-EMINENCE  OF  PERSIANS  263 

playing  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  Klnrijite  rebellion  of  Abu  Hamza, 
in  consequence  of  which  participation  he  was  put  to  death  by 
Marwan's  adherents,  who  succeeded  in  getting  him  into  their 
hands.  A  whole  series  of  the  most  eminent  Muhammadans  was 
descended  from  Persian  prisoners  of  war.  The  grandsire  of  Abu 
Ishaq,  whose  Biography  of  the  Prophet  is  one  of  the  principal 
sources  for  the  history  of  early  Islam,  was  Yasar,  a  Persian  prisoner 
of  war  ;  so  likewise  was  the  father  of  Abu  Miisa  b.  Nusayr,  who 
thrust  himself  into  prominence  in  Andalusia  ;  while  the  fathers  and 
grandfathers  of  many  other  men  distinguished  in  politics,  learning, 
and  literature  were  Persian  and  Turkish  prisoners  of  war,  who  were 
affiliated  [as  mawdli,  or  clients]  to  some  Arab  tribe,  and  who,  by 
their  thoroughly  Arabian  nisba,  almost  cast  into  oblivion  their  foreign 
origin.1  But  the  retention  of  the  remembrance  of  their  foreign 
origin  is  not  altogether  excluded  in  the  case  of  such  Arab  'clients' 
[inawali],  even  though  it  be  not  exactly  common.  The  Arab  poet 
Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  as-Suli  (d.  A.D.  857)  retained  in  this  his  family 
name  as-Suli  the  remembrance  of  his  ancestor  $ol-takin,  a  chief 
of  Khurasan  conquered  and  deprived  of  his  throne  by  Yazid  b. 
al-Mtihallab.  Converted  to  Islam,  he  became  one  of  the  most 
devoted  partisans  of  his  conqueror.  On  the  arrow  which  he  shot 
against  the  troops  of  the  Caliph  he  is  said  to  have  written  the  words, 
'  §ol  summons  you  to  follow  the  Book  of  God  and  the  Sunna  of  his 
Prophet.'  From  this  Turk  the  celebrated  Arabic  poet  was 
descended." 

The  whole  of  this  chapter  in  Goldziher's  masterly  work  is 
profoundly  instructive,  and  to  it  we  refer  the  reader  for  fuller 
information  on  this  matter.  Amongst  the  most  striking 
illustrations  which  he  gives  3  of  the  preponderating  influence 
of  these  foreign  Maiv&li  is  a  dialogue  between  the  Umayyad 
Caliph  'Abdu'l-Malik  and  the  famous  theologian  az-Zuhn, 
whence  it  appears  that  alike  in  Mecca,  Yaman,  Egypt,  Syria, 
Mesopotamia,  Khurasan,  Kufa,  and  Basra  foreign  "clients" 

1  Al-Baladhuri  (p.  247),  as  Goldziher  remarks,  gives  a  list  of  such  men, 
conspicuous  amongst  whom  are  the  four  sons  of  Shirin. 

1  On  the  Arabic  forms  given  to  Persian  proper  names,  see  Goldziher, 
op.  cit.,  p.  133,  n.  2  ad  calc.  Thus  Mdhdn  becomes  Maytnun;  and  Basfaruj, 
Abu  §ufra,  while  in  one  case  the  name  of  the  Persian  Prophet  Zoroaster 
is  replaced  by  that  of  the  Arabian  Prophet  Muhammad. 

»  Op.  cit.,  vol.  i,  pp.  114,  115. 


264          THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF  ISLAM 

held  the  chief  positions  of  authority  in  religion.  And  when 
the  Caliph  expressed  his  amazement  at  this  state  of  things,  the 
theologian  replied,  "So  it  is,  O  Commander. of  the  Faithful ! 
This  is  effected  by  the  Command  of  God  and  His  Religion  ; 
who  observes  these  attains  to  authority,  who  neglects  them 
goes  under." 

The  tendency  of  pious  Muslims  of  the  early  period,  as 
expressed  in  numerous  traditions,  was,  as  Goldziher  also  points 
out,  to  supply  the  strongest  authority  for  disregarding  racial 
prejudices  in  the  domain  of  religion.  Amongst  these  traditions 
are  the  following  : — 

"O  man,  forsooth  God  is  one  God,  and  the  ancestor  of  all 
mankind  is  one,  the  religion  is  the  same  religion,  the  Arabic  speech 
is  neither  father  nor  mother  to  any  one  of  you,  it  is  naught  else  but 
a  speech.  He  who  speaks  Arabic  is  thereby  an  Arab."1 

"  He  of  [the  people  of]  Pars  who  accepts  Islam  is  [as  good  as]  a 
Qurayshite." 

"Did  Faith  reside  in  the  Pleiades,  yet  would  men  of  this  people 
[the  Persians]  reach  it "  ;  a  tradition  afterwards  modified  as  follows  : 
"  Were  knowledge  suspended  to  the  ends  of  heaven,  yet  would  a 
section  of  the  people  in  Pars  reach  it."  * 

That  the  full-blooded  Arabs,  in  whom  racial  feeling  greatly 
outweighed  the  religious  sense,  were  very  far  from  sharing  the 
views  embodied  in  these  and  similar  traditions  is  abundantly 
shown  by  Goldziher,  who  cites  many  facts  and  passages  which 
indicate  their  contempt  for  the  foreign  Mawali,  and  in  parti- 
cular their  disapproval  of  marriages  between  Arabs  (especially 
Arab  women)  and  non-Arabs. 3  A  precisely  similar  pheno- 
menon is  presented  at  the  present  day  by  the  English  in  India, 
who  are  no  more  disposed  to  accord  social  equality  to  a 

1  Goldziher  regards  this  tradition,  cited  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  'Asakir 
(A.D.  1106-1169),  as  °f  la*6  fabrication,  but  as  embodying  an  idea  un- 
doubtedly prevalent  in  earlier  times. 

3  Op.  cit.,  vol.  i,  pp.  117-146. 

3  That  this  already  existed  in  pre-Islamic  times  is  shown  by  the  refusal 
of  Nu'man,  King  of  Hira,  and  his  courtiers  to  give  one  of  their  daughters 
in  marriage  even  to  their  powerful  suzerain,  the  King  of  Persia. 


THE  SHU'tfBIYYA  265 

Christian  than  to  a  non-Christian  native,  but  rather  the  con- 
trary ;  indeed,  the  comparison  here  is  on  the  whole  to  the 
advantage  of  Islam,  where  at  least  the  professedly  pious  steadily 
opposed  this,  dominant  racial  prejudice  in  a  way  very  rare 
amongst  our  missionaries — a  fact  which,  without  doubt, 
accounts  for  their  slender  success  in  most  parts  of  Asia. 

With  the  fall  of  the  Umayyads  and  the  rise  of  the  "  Persian 
and  Khurasinian  "  dynasty  of  the  'Abbasids *  there  came  true, 
as  has  been  already  sufficiently  indicated,  part  at  least  of  Nasr 
b.  Sayyar's  warning  to  his  master  Marwan  "  the  Ass  "  : — 

Fa-firri  'an  rihdliki,  thumma  qtili 
'Ala'l-Isldmi  wa'l-'Arabi  's-saldmu  I 

"  Flee  from  thine  abode,  and  bid  farewell  to  Islam  and  the 
Arabs ! " 

There  now  appears  on  the  scene  a  definite  party,  the 
Shulubiyya^  or  "  partisans  of  the  Gentiles," a  who,  beginning 
with  the  contention  that  all  Muslims  were  equal,  finished  in 
some  cases  by  declaring  the  Arabs  inferior  to  many  other  races. 
"  Already  under  the  Caliph  Abu  Ja'far  al-Mansur,"  says 
Goldziher  (op.  cit.t  p.  148),  "we  are  witnesses  of  how  the 
Arab  waits  vainly  for  entrance  before  the  Caliph's  Gate,  while 
men  of  Khurasan  freely  go  in  and  out  through  it,  and  mock 
the  rude  Arab."  The  poet  Abu  Tammam  (t  A.D.  845-46) 
was  rebuked  by  the  Wazir,  because  he  had  compared  the 
Caliph  to  Hatim  of  the  tribe  of  Tayy  and  other  personages 
in  whom  the  Arabs  gloried,  with  the  words,  "  Dost  thou 

1  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  i.  p.  148.    CJ.  p.  247  supra. 

*  To  this  party  Goldziher  devotes  two  chapters  of  his  remarkable  book 
{vol.  i,  pp.  147-216  and  272).  The  word  shn'ub  (pi.  of  sha'b)  is  used  for 
the  "  nations  "  of  the  Gentiles  ('A jam)  as  opposed  to  the  "  tribes  "  (qa bd'il) 
of  the  Arabs,  in  reference  to  Qur'an,  xlix,  13  :  "0  men  I  verily  We  have 
created  you  from  a  male  and  a  female,  and  have  made  you  nations  and 
tribes,  that  ye  might  recognise  that  the  noblest  of  you  in  God"s  sight  is  he 
amongst  you  who  most  fears  God :  verily  God  is  All-knowing  ami 
Informed." 


compare  the  Commander  of  the  Faithful  with  these  barbarous 
Arabs  ? "  « 

Of  these  ShiSubiyya  each  one  vaunted  particularly  the  claims 
to  distinction  of  his  own  nationality,  whether  Syrian,  Naba- 
thaean,  Egyptian,  Greek,  Spanish,  or  Persian  ;  but  the  last 
named  were  at  once  the  most  vehement  and  the  most 
numerous.  In  Umayyad  times  Isma'il  b.  YAsar  was,  by 
order  of  the  Caliph  HishAm  (A.D.  724—43),  thrown  into  a 
tank  of  water  because  he  had  boasted  his  Persian  descent  in 
verses  amongst  which  occur  the  following  : — 2 

"  Princes  were  my  ancestors,  noble  satraps,  of  high  breeding,  generous, 

hospitable, 
Comparable  to  Khusraw  or  Shdpur,  and  to  Hurmuzdn  in  renown 

and  consideration  ; 
Lions    of  the   war-hosts,   when   they   rushed  forth   on  the  day  oj 

battle. 
They  disheartened  the  Kings  of  the  Turks  and  Greeks,  they  stalked 

in  heavy  coats  of  mail 
As  ravenous  lions  stalk  forth. 
Then,  if  thou  askest,  wilt  thou  learn   that  we  are  descended  from 

a  race  which  excels  all  others" 

Such  boasts  on  the  part  of  the  Persian  Mawall  were  gall 
and  wormwood  to  the  Arab  party,  who  would  fain  have 
enjoyed  a  monopoly  of  this  sort  of  self-glorification  ;  and, 
when  they  could  do  no  more,  they  replied  by  such  verses  as 
these  : — 3 

"  God  so  ordained  it  that  I  knew  you  ere  Fortune  smiled  upon  you, 
when  ye  still  sat  in  the  Haymarket, 

But  not  a  year  had  elapsed  ere  I  saiv  you  strutting  about  in  silk 
and  brocade  and  samite. 

Then  your  women  sat  in  the  sun  and  moaned  under  the  water- 
wheels  in  harmony  with  the  turtle-doves  : 

Now  they  trail  skirts  of  flowered  silk  from  the  looms  of  'Iraq,  and 
all  kinds  of  silk  stuffs  from  Dakn  and  Tdriin. 


Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  p.  148.  '  Von  Kremer,  Streifziige,  p.  30 

3  Strcifzfige,  pp.  31-32  and  69-70. 


PRIDE   OF  THE  PERSIANS  267 

They   hare   already  forgotten   how     but   a    little   while   since   they 

broke   Halani-stoncs   in    the  quarries,   and    how   they   carried 

bundles  of  moss  in  the  skirts  of  their  frocks. 
Bui  when   they  had  grown   rich,    then  spoke  they  with   impudent 

falsehood,  '  We  are  the  noble  ones,  the  sons  of  the  Dihqdns.' 

***** 
If  one  questions  the   meanest  and  commonest  of  them,  he  answers 

full  of  arrogance,  'I  am  a  son  of  [Bahrdnt]  Chubin,' 
Adding  thereto,  '  Khusraw  endowed  me  with  goods  and  made  me 

his  inheritor :  who  dares  to  set  himself  up  against  me  f ' " 

The  Persian  aristocracy  of  this  period,  as  we  learn  from 
al-Mas'udi,  *  preserved  their  genealogies  with  the  same  care 
as  did  the  Arabs,  so  that  these  boasts  which  so  offended  the 
Arabs  may  in  many  cases  have  been  well  founded.  Even  in 
the  genealogies  of  the  Arabs  they  were  better  instructed  than 
the  Arabs  themselves,  as  we  see  in  the  anecdote  cited  by  Gold- 
ziher  (op.  cit.y  p.  190),  when  a  Qurayshite  is  obliged  to  appeal 
to  a  Persian  for  information  about  his  own  ancestors.  The 
Persians  on  their  side  were  quick  to  seize  and  turn  into  ridicule 
the  weak  points  of  the  Arabs,  and  even,  as  Goldziher  remarks,2 
to  belittle  those  virtues  (such  as  liberality)  whereon  they 
especially  prided  themselves  ;  so  that,  for  example,  one  of 
al-Ma'mun's  three  Persian  librarians  named  Sahl  b.  Harun, 
a  fanatical  Shu'ubi,  was  pleased  to  write  a  number  of  treatises 
extolling  avarice.3  The  blind  Persian  panegyrist  of  the  Caliph 
al-Mahdi,  Bashshar  b.  Burd,4  a  well-known  freethinker,  who 
was  ultimately  put  to  death  for  his  heterodoxy  in  A.D.  783-84, 
ventured  so  far  as  to  say  : — 

"  The  Earth  is  dark  and  the  Fire  resplendent,  and  the  Fire  has  bun 
adored  since  it  became  Fire." 


1  Muruju  'dh.  Dhahab  (ed.  B.  de  Meynard),  ii,  241,  cited  by  Goldziher, 
op.  cit.,  p.  161.  "  Loc.  cit. 

3  A  work  of  the  same  kind,  the  Kitdbu'l-Bukhald,  or  "  Book  of  Misers,' 
composed  by  the  celebrated  al-Jahidh  (another  $hu'ubf :   cf.  Goldziher, 
op.  cit.,  p.  157),  has  been  recently  published  at  Leyden  by  Dr.  Van  Vloten. 

4  Seede  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan,  vol.  i,  pp.  254-257  ;  Brockel- 
mann's  Gesch.    d.    Arab    Lit.,  vol.  i,  pp.  73,  74 ;    and   von  Kremer's 
Strcifzftge,  pp.  34  et  seqq. 


268          THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

For  our  knowledge  of  the  Shu'ubi  controversy  and  the 
literature  which  it  evoked,  of  which  echoes  only  are  pre- 
served in  the  works  of  al-jahidji  (f  A.D.  869)  and  Ibn  'Abd 
Rabbihi  (t  A.D.  940),  we  are  chiefly  indebted  to  Goldziher's 
excellent  Muhammedanische  Studien,  already  so  freely  cited  in 
this  chapter/  Amongst  the  defenders  of  the  Persian  pretensions 
he  enumerates  Ishaq  b.  Hassan  al-Khurrami  (\  A.D.  815-16), 
a  native  of  Sughd,  who,  in  one  of  his  verses,  boasts x  that  his 
father  is  Sasan,  and  Kisra,  son  of  Hurmuz,  and  the  Khaqan 
his  cousins  ;  Abu  'Uthman  Sa'id  b.  Humayd  b.  Bakhtagan 
(t  A.D.  854-5),  who  composed  books  on  the  superiority  of 
the  Persians  over  the  Arabs;2  Abu  Sa'id  ar-Rustami  (tenth 
century  of  our  era),  "  in  whom,"  says  Goldziher,  "  the 
national  cry  of  the  Persians  against  the  Arabs  sounds  its  last 
notes ; "  and  that  great  scientist,  Abu  Rayhan  al-Birum 
(t  A.D.  1048).  Amongst  the  most  notable  of  their  oppo- 
nents, the  champions  of  Arab  superiority,  are  enumerated  the 
historians  Ibn  Qutayba  (t  A.D.  883  or  889)  and  al-Baladhuri 
(t  A.D.  892), 3  both  of  whom  were  of  Persian  origin,4  although 
they  wrote  exclusively  in  Arabic.  To  them  may  be  added  a 
Persian-writing  Persian  of  a  later  epoch,  Nasir-i-Khusraw,  the 
poet,  traveller,  and  Isma'iH  propagandist  (t  circ.  A.D.  1074), 
who  in  his  Diwan  (lith.  ed.  of  Tabriz,  A.M.  1280,  p.  150), 

says  : — 

Bi-din  kard  fakhr  dn-ki  ia  n'tz-i-hashr 
Bidu  muftakhir  shud  'Arab  bar  'Ajam 
Khasis-ast  u  bi  qadr  bi-din,  agar 
Faridun-sh  khdl-ast,  u  Jamshid  'am. 

"  'Twas  in    Religion   that   he   gloried   by  whom   till   the   Day  of 

Judgement 

The  Arabs  excel  the  Persians  in  glory. 
He  who  lacks  religion  is  ignoble  and  mean, 
Though    Feridun    be    his  maternal,  and    Jamshid  his  paternal 

uncle." 

*  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  p.  163.  •  Fihrist,  p.  123 

3  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  p.  166. 

«  Brockelmann.  Gcsch.  d.  Arab.  Lit.,  vol.  i,  pp.  120  and  141. 


THE  SHU'tfBIYYA  °fy**&^ 


The  Sku'ubiyya  controversy  extended  itself,  as 
also  shows,  to  the  regions  of  Genealogy  and  Philology, 
lay  the  special  pride  of  the  Arabs,  who  valued  nothing  more 
highly  than  nobility  of  descent  and  purity  of  speech.  Even 
into  these  fields  the  "  Iranophiles  "  carried  their  attacks,  using 
their  knowledge  in  the  first  to  rake  up  all  the  scandals  con- 
nected with  the  different  Arab  tribes  and  the  pedigrees  of 
their  favourite  heroes  and  warriors — scandals  which  were 
embodied  in  a  whole  series  of  incriminating  poems  called 
Mathalib — and  in  the  second  to  vindicate  the  superiority  of 
other  languages,  notably  the  Persian  and  the  Greek,  over 
Arabic.  To  one  of  the  most  accomplished  of  these  "  Irano- 
phile"  scholars,  Abu  'Ubayda  Ma'mar  b.  al-Muthanna  (t  circ. 
A.D.  824),  Goldziher  devotes  a  long  notice.1 

This  most  learned  philologist,  notorious  as  a  Shu'ubf,  was 
always  eager  to  point  out  how  much,  even  of  what  they  most 
prized,  and  esteemed  most  national  and  original,  the  Arabs 
really  owed  to  other  nations ;  how  much,  for  example,  their 
poetry  and  rhetoric  owed  to  Persian  models,  how  many  of 
their  stories  were  drawn  from  Persian  sources,  and  the  like. 
The  superior  attractions  of  the  Persian  legends  had,  indeed, 
as  we  learn  from  Ibn  Hisham  (ed.  Wiistenfeld,  pp.  235-6), 
already  caused  the  greatest  vexation  to  the  Prophet,  who 
found  his  audiences  melt  away  when  an-Nadr  b.  al-Harith 
al-'Abdari  appeared  on  the  scene  to  tell  them  tales  of  Rustam 
and  Isfandiyar  and  the  ancient  kings  of  Persia. 

As  regards  Philology  proper,  Goldziher  specially  mentions 
as  champions  of  the  Arab  cause  the  great  commentator 
az-Zamakhshari  (also  a  Persian:  t  A.D.  1143-4),  who  in  his 
preface  thanks  God  for  his  learning  in,  and  enthusiasm  for,  the 
Arabic  language,  and  his  exemption  from  Shu'iibi  tendencies  ; 
Ibn  Durayd  (t  A.D.  933) ;  and  Abu'l-Husayn  b.  Faris  (early 
eleventh  century).  Amongst  their  most  notable  opponents  he 
reckons  Hamza  of  Isfahan,  who  "was  enthusiastic  for  the 
*  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  pp.  195-206, 


2;o  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

Persians," T  and  who  shows  his  enthusiasm,  amongst  other 
ways,  by  finding  Persian  etymologies  (rarely  satisfactory)  for 
names  generally  regarded  as  purely  Arabic.  Thus  he  ex- 
plained the  name  of  the  town  of  Basra  as  "  Bas  rah  "  ("  Far 
Road,"  or  "  Many  Roads  ")  ;  an  etymology  which  reminds  us 
of  the  statement  in  that  late  and  greatly  overestimated 
Persian  work  the  Dabistan  (see  pp.  54-55  supra\  that  the 
original  name  of  Mecca  was  "  Mah-gahJ'  which  in  Persian 
signifies  "  the  Place  of  the  Moon."  Such  childish  ety- 
mologies are,  unfortunately,  only  too  popular  with  Persian 
writers  down  to  the  present  day.2 

The  way  in  which  the  different  sciences,  especially  History, 
arose  amongst  the  Muslims  in  connection  with  the  study  of 
the  Our'dn,  and  grouped  themselves,  as  it  were,  round  a 
theological  kernel,  is  admirably  sketched  by  that  great 
Arabist,  Professor  de  Goeje,  in  the  article  on  Tabari  and 
Early  Arab  Historians  which  he  contributed  to  vol.  xxiii 
(1888)  of  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica.  The  philological 
sciences  naturally  come  first.  With  the  influx  of  foreign 
converts  to  Islam  an  urgent  need  arose  for  grammars  and 
dictionaries  of  the  Arabic  language  in  which  the  Word  of  God 
had  been  revealed.  To  elucidate  the  meanings  of  rare  and 
obscure  words  occurring  therein,  it  was  necessary  to  collect  as 
many  as  possible  of  the  old  poems,  which  constituted  the 
inexhaustible  treasury  of  the  Arabic  tongue.  To  understand 
these  poems  a  knowledge  of  the  Ansab^  or  genealogies  of  the 
Arabs,  and  of  their  Battles  or  "  Days "  (Ayyam]  and  their 
history  (Akhbar}  generally  was  requisite.  To  supplement  the 
rules  laid  down  in  the  Qur'an  for  the  conduct  of  life,  it  was 

1  Al-Biruni's  Chronologv,  ed.  Sachau,  p.  52,  cited  by  Goldziher,  op.  cit., 
i,  209.  The  expression  is  "  ta'assaba  li'l-Furs." 

3  An  English  resident  in  Persia  named  Glover  was  metamorphosed  into 
Gtil-dvar  ("Bringer  of  Roses");  less  fortunate  was  a  compatriot  named 
Reid,  a  missionary,  whose  name  ultimately  necessitated  a  retreat  from 
this  field  of  activity. 


EVOLUTION  OF  MUSLIM  SCIENCES    271 

necessary  to  find  out,  by  questioning  his  "Companions" 
(Ashdb\  or  those  who  had  associated  with  them  and 
"  followed "  them  (Tawabi1,  tubbfr  or  t&bi'-un),  what  the 
Prophet  had  said  and  how  he  had  acted  under  different  cir- 
cumstances ;  whence  arose  the  science  of  Tradition  (Hadith). 
To  test  the  validity  of  these  traditions  it  was  necessary  to 
know  not  merely  the  content  (main)  of  each,  but  also  its 
hnady  i.e.,  the  chain  of  persons  through  whom  it  had  been 
handed  down  ere  it  was  finally  reduced  to  writing  ;  and  to 
test  this  isndd  a  knowledge  of  the  dates,  characters,  and  cir- 
cumstances of  these  persons  was  requisite,  which  again  led  in 
another  way  to  the  study  of  Biography  and  Chronology.  Nor 
did  the  history  of  the  Arabs  alone  suffice  ;  it  was  necessary  to 
know  something  of  the  history  of  their  neighbours,  especially 
the  Persians,  Greeks,  Himyarites,  ./Ethiopians,  &c.,  in  order 
to  grasp  the  significance  of  many  allusions  in  the  Qur'dn  and 
in  the  old  poems.  A  knowledge  of  Geography  was  essential 
for  the  same  purpose,  and  also  for  more  practical  reasons 
connected  with  the  rapid  expansion  of  the  Muhammadan 
Empire. 

During  the  first  century  after  the  flight  hardly  any  books 
were  written  ;  all  this  knowledge  continued  to  be  handed 
down  orally,  and  the  Qur'an  remained  almost  the  only  prose 
work  (and  it  is  chiefly  written  in  rhymed  prose)  in  Arabic. 
Such  as  desired  to  study  Arabic  philology,  poetry,  and  legend 
had  to  go  into  the  Desert  amongst  the  Bedouin  tribes  to 
pursue  their  researches ;  such  as  sought  a  knowledge  of 
Tradition  and  the  religious  sciences  had  to  seek  it  at  Madina. 
Knowledge  could  only  be  obtained  by  travelling,  and  this 
travelling  "  in  search  of  knowledge  "  (fl  talab'i  l-^ilni],  rendered 
necessary  at  first  by  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  gradually 
became  a  fashion,  and  finally  almost  a  craze,  favoured  and 
justified  by  such  traditions  as:  "Whosoever  goeth  forth  to 
seek  for  learning  is  in  the  Way  of  God  until  he  returns 
home  ;  the  Angels  blithely  spread  their  wings  over  him,  and 


272  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

all  creatures  pray  for  him,  even  the  fish  in  the  water." * 
Makhul  (t  A.D.  730),  originally  a  slave  in  Egypt,  would  not 
on  receiving  his  freedom  leave  that  country  "till  he  had 
gathered  together  all  the  learning  which  was  to  be  found 
there  ;  "  and,  having  accomplished  this,  he  journeyed  through 
Hijdz,  'Iraq,  and  Syria  seeking  for  an  authentic  tradition  as  to 
the  division  of  spoils  taken  in  battle,  which  he  at  last  obtained 
from  an  old  man  named  Ziyad  b.  Jdriya  at-Tamimi,  who  had 
it  on  the  authority  of  Habib  b.  Maslama  al-Fihri.2  Here  we 
have  an  actual  application  of  the  principle  enunciated  in  the 
following  words  ascribed  to  Abu'd-Darda :  "  If  the  explanation 
of  a  passage  in  the  Book  of  God  presented  difficulties  to  me, 
and  if  I  heard  of  a  man  in  Birku'l-Jumad  "  (a  most  inaccessible 
spot  in  South  Arabia,  proverbially  spoken  of  as  equivalent  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth)  "  who  would  explain  it  to  me,  I  would 
not  grudge  the  journey  thither."  3 

The  two  oldest  Arabic  prose  works  of  importance  (except 
the  Qur'an)  which  have  come  down  to  us  are  Ibn  Ishaq's 
(t  A.D.  767)  Biography  of  the  Prophet  in  the  recension  of  Ibn 
Hisham  (t  A.D.  834)^  and  a  work  on  genealogy  by  Ibnu'l- 
Kalbf  (t  A.D.  763-4),  of  which  manuscripts  exist  in  the 
libraries  of  the  British  Museum  and  the  Escorial.S  Manu- 
script notes,  however,  were  constantly  made  at  an  earlier  date, 
during  the  first  century  of  the  Flight,  by  such  men  as  Abu 
Hurayra,  'Abdu'llah  b.  'Amr  b.  al-'Asi,  az-Zuhn6  (t  A.D.  742) 
and  Hasan  of  Basra,7  who  in  some  cases  ordered  that  these 
notes  should  be  burned  at  their  death,  because  they  were  mere 
aids  to  memory,  "and  what  they  knew  these  scholars  had 

1  Goldziher,  op  cit.,  vol.  ii,  p.  177  ;  and  on  these  journeys  //  talabil-ilm 
generally,  pp.  32-33  and  175  et  seqq. 

'  Idem,  p.  33.  3  Idem,  pp.  176-177. 

4  Edited  by  Wiistenfeld  (1858-60),  and  translated  into  German  by 
Weil  (1864). 

s  These  and  the  following  particulars  are  chiefly  drawn  from  de 
Goeje's  excellent  article  in  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica  to  which  I 
have  already  referred. 

6  Goldziher,  op.  cit.,  pp.  195-196.  '  De  Goeje,  loc.  cit. 


EARLIEST  ARABIC  PROSE  273 

handed  on  by  word  of  mouth."  Indeed,  as  Goldziher  has 
shown,1  there  existed  till  well  into  the  second  century  after 
the  Flight  a  strong  feeling  against  the  writing  down  of 
traditions,  so  that  'Abdu'r-Rahmdn  b.  Harmala  al-Aslami 
(t  A.D.  762)  had  to  obtain  a  special  permission  from  his 
teacher  Sa'id  b.  al-Musayyib  to  reduce  his  teachings  to 
writing,  on  the  pretext  that  his  memory  was  not  strong 
enough  to  retain  them  without  such  aids.  The  grounds  on 
which  this  objection  rested  were  chiefly  two  :  a  fear  lest  the 
books  wherein  these  holy  sayings  of  the  Prophet  were  recorded 
might  not  be  treated  with  enough  respect ;  and  a  fear  lest,  on 
the  other  hand,  they  might,  as  had  happened  in  other  religions, 
become  invested,  to  the  prejudice  of  the  Book  of  God,  with  an 
undue  authority.  Against  this  objection  stood  the  truer  view 
embodied  in  such  sayings  as  :  "  Knowledge  not  put  on  paper 
is  lost ; "  "  What  is  committed  to  memory  passes  away,  but 
what  is  written  remains  ;  "  "  The  best  teacher  of  traditions  is 
the  written  record;"  and  the  Im£m  Ahmad  b.  Hanbal's 
reputed  aphorisms,  "  Publish  traditions  only  after  written 
texts,"  and  "  the  book  is  the  most  faithful  recorder." 2 
Naturally  such  objections  did  not  exist  in  the  case  of  profane 
literature,  and,  in  the  short  section  which  he  devotes  to  the 
prose-literature  of  the  Umayyad  period,  Carl  Brockelmann  3 
mentions  the  following  early  works  and  writers  :  the  Southern 
Arabians  Wahb  b.  Munabbih  (of  Persian  origin  4)  and 
'Abid  b.  Shariya,  both  of  San'a,  of  whom  the  former  died 
at  an  advanced  age  in  A.D.  728,  and  the  latter  in  the  reign  of 
'Abdu'l-Malik  (A.D.  685-705) ;  Abu  Mikhnaf  Lut  b.  Yahyd 
al-Azdi,  celebrated  for  his  historical  romances  (d.  circ. 
A.D.  750) ;  the  already-mentioned  az-Zuhn  (d.  A.D.  742) ; 
and  his  pupil  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu'r-Rahmdn  al-'Amiri 
(t  A.D.  737),  author  of  an  older  Muwatta*  than  the  well- 

1  Op.  cit.,  ii,  pp.  196,  et  seqq.  *  Ibid.,  p.  199. 

3  Gesch.  d.  Arab.  Lift.,  i,  pp.  64-67. 

4  See  Wiistenfeld's  Geschichtschreiber  der  Araber,  p.  4,  No.  16. 

19 


274  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

known  law-book  of  the  same  name  compiled  by  the  Imam 
Malik  b.  Anas  (d.  795).  Amongst  the  oldest  Arabic  piose 
works  of  which  copies  actually  exist  are  the  Kitab-Sz-Zuhd  (on 
Asceticism)  of  Asad  b.  Musa  b.  Ibrahim  (t  A.D.  749)  ;  the 
Kit  Abu  l~y  aw  ami1  (on  Oneiromancy)  of  Muhammad  b.  Shirin 
(see  p.  263,  n.  I  supra]  ;  and  the  Kitdbu'l-hhara  bi-'iilmil-('ibara 
of  Muhammad  b.  'All  b.  'Umar  as-Sdlimi.  Last,  but  not  least, 
is  the  Umayyad  prince  Khalid  b.  Yazid  (t  A.D.  704),  who 
studied  Alchemy  with  a  monk  named  Marianus,  composed 
three  treatises  on  Occult  Science,  and  had  for  his  pupil  the 
celebrated  occultist  Jdbir  b.  Hayydn  (circ.  A.D.  776). 

Brockelmann  in  his  admirable  Geschichte  der  Arabhcken 
Litieratur  (Weimar,  1897-  )  divides  the  earlier  portion  ot 
his  subject  into  the  following  periods  : — 

I.  The  purely  Arabian  literature  (almost  entirely  consisting 
of  poems  composed  by  pagan,  and  a  few  Jewish  and  Christian, 
poets),  from  the  earliest  times  till  the  time  of  the  Prophet. 

II.  The    literature    (also    purely    Arabian,    and,    with    the 
exception  of  the  Qur'An,  poetical)  of  the   Prophet  and    his 
time. 

III.  The  literature  (also  purely  Arabian)  of  the  Umayyad 
period  (A.D.  661-750). 

IV.  The  classical  period  (A.D.  750-1000)  of  Muhammadan 
literature,   composed  in   the   Arabic  language,  but   no  longer 
exclusively,  or  even  mainly,  by  Arabs. 

V.  The  post-classical  period  (A.D.  1000-1258)  of  the  same, 
down   to    the   Mongol   invasion,  sack   of  Baghdad,  and    ex- 
tinction of  the  'Abbdsid  dynasty. 

Of  these  periods  the  first  three  but  slightly  concern  us,  and 
all  that  is  needful  for  our  purpose  has  been  already  said.  The 
periods  subsequent  to  the  Mongol  invasion  lie  also  beyond 
the  scope  of  this  work,  since  even  before  this  momentous 
event  the  national  life  of  Persia  had  been  definitely  detached 
from  that  of  Arabia  and  Western  Asia,  and  the  Persian 
language  had  become  the  main  vehicle  of  Persian  thought. 


CHIEF   WRITERS  OF  THIS  PERIOD     275 

The  fourth  and  fifth  periods,  on  the  other  hand,  concern  us 
closely  ;  for  during  the  first  (A.D.  750-1000)  the  Persian, 
tongue  had  scarcely  re-emerged,  as  a  literary  language,  from 
the  eclipse  which  it  suffered  at  the  Arab  Conquest ;  and 
during  the  second,  although  it  was  once  more  widely  and 
successfully  cultivated  for  all  literary  purposes,  there  was  in 
Persia  a  large  co-existent  Arabic  literature  produced  by 
Persians.  The  Arabic  literature  produced  in  Persia  after 
the  Mongol  Invasion  was  far  more  restricted  in  scope,  and 
was  mainly  confined  to  the  domains  of  Theology,  Philosophy, 
and  Jurisprudence. 

From  the  Persian  point  of  view,  then,  whence  we  here 
regard  the  matter,  it  is  the  Arabic  literature  of  'Abbdsid  times 
with  which  our  concern  chiefly  lies,  and,  in  the  present  chapter, 
those  writers  who  belong  to  what  we  have  defined  as  "  the 
Golden  Age"  (A.D.  749-847).  A  list  of  the  most  important 
of  these,  arranged  in  order  of  the  dates  of  their  decease,  here 
follows. 

(1)  Ibnu'l-Mitqaffa'  (f  A.D.  757),  the  converted  Magian,  who,  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  he  was  born  a  Persian  and  a  Zoroastrian, 
is  counted  by  Ibn  Muqla  (f  A.D.  939)  and  Ibn  Khaldiin  the  Moor 
(f  A.D.  1405-6)  amongst  the  past-masters  of  the  Arabic  tongue.     He 
was  also,  as  has  been  already  remarked,  an  accomplished  Pahlawi 
scholar,  and  translated  from  this  language  many  works  into  Arabic. 
Of  these,  his  Arabic  version  of  Kalila  and  Dimna,  still  a  classic  in  all 
Arabic-speaking  countries,  alone  survives  in  its  entirety,  his  much 
more    important   translation    of    the   Pahlawi   "  Book    of    Kings " 
(Khudhdy-nama\  being    only  known  to  us   by  citations   in   later 
histories. 

(2)  Ibn  'Uqba  (f  A.D.  758),  the  oldest  biographer  of  the  Prophet, 
whose  work,  as  it  would  seem,  is  unfortunately  entirely  lost. 

(3)  Muhammad  b.  as-Sd'ib  al-Kalbi  (f  A.D.  763),  who,  together  with 
iiis  son  Hisham  b.  al-Kalbi  (\  A.D.  820),  was  well  versed  in  the  history 

f  the  ancient  Arabs. 

(4)  'Isd  b.  'Umar  ath-Thaqafi  (\  A.D.  766),  one  of  the  founders  of 
rabic  grammar,  the  teacher  of  both  Khalil  b.  Ahmad  (the  alleged 
ventor  of  the  Science  of  Prosody  in  Arabic)    and    the    great 

ibawayhi,  the  Persian. 


2/6  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

(5)  Ibn  Isltdq  (\  A.D.  767),  the  biographer  of  the  Prophet,  whose 
1    work  (though  possibly,  as  de  Goeje  thinks,  still  extant  in  its  original 

form  in  the  Kyiiprulti  Library  at  Constantinople)  is  known  to  us  only 
in  the  recension  of  Ibn  Hisham. 

(6)  Abu  Hanifa  an-Nu'mdn  (f  A.D.  767),  one  of  the  four  orthodox 
"Imams"  of  the   Sunnis,   the  founder  of   the    Hanafi   school,  of 
Persian  origin,  and  in  strong  sympathy  with  the  descendants  of  'Ali. 

(7)  Hammdd  b.  Sdbur  (Shdpur)  ar-Rdwiya  (\  A.D.  772-775),   of 
Persian  (Daylamite)  origin,  the  collector  and  editor  of  the  seven 
ancient  Arabic  poems  known  as  the  Mu'allaqdt. 

(8)  Jdbir  b.  Hayydn,  the  occultist  (circ.  A.D.  776 ;  see  p.  274  supra}. 

(9)  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu'lldh  al-Azdi  (circ.  A.D.  777),  who  wrote  a 
history  of  the  Conquest  of  Syria. 

(10)  Abu  Duldma  (f  A.D,  777),  a  negro,  "more  jester  and  Court- 
fool  than  poet,"  who  enjoyed  the  favour  of  the  Caliphs  al-Mansiir 
and  al-Mahdi. 

(n)  Bashshdr  b.  Burd  (f  A.D.  783),  the  blind  Persian  sceptic  and 
poet,  to  whom  reference  has  already  been  made. 

(12)  Al-Mufaddal  ad-Dabbi  (f  A.D.  786),  tutor  to  the  Caliph  al- 
Mahdi  during  his  youth,  who   made   a  collection    of  old  Arabic 
poems    not    less    important,    though    less    celebrated,    than    the 
Mu'allaqdt. 

(13)  As-Sayyidu'l-Himyari  ("the  Himyarite  Sayyid,"  f  A.D.  789),  a 
zealous  Shi'ite,  "  whose  poems "  (mostly  in  praise  of  the  Prophet 
and  his  family)  "are  distinguished,"  says  Brockelmann  (p.  83),  "like 
those  of  Abu'l-'  Atahiya  and  Bashshar,  by  simplicity  of  language." 

(14)  Khalil  b.  Ahmad  (\  A.D.  791),  the  grammarian  and  prosodist 
mentioned  under  (4)  supra. 

(15)  Sibaivayhi  (f  A.D.  793),  the  Persian  grammarian,  also  mentioned 
under  (4)  supra. 

(16)  Abu  Yusuf  Ya'qi'ib  al-Ansdri  (\  A.D.   795.^  jurisconsult  and 
pupil  of  Abu  Hanifa. 

(17)  Malik  b.  Anas  (\  A.D.  795),  the  second  of  the  four  orthodox 
"  Imams,"  the  Founder  of  the  Malikite  school. 

(18)  Marwdn  b,  Abi  Hafsa  (f  A.D.  797),  poet,  a  Jew  of  Khurasan. 

(19)  Muslim  b.  al-Walid  (f  A.D.  803),  court-poet  of  Harunu'r-Rashid 
and  protege  of  the  Barmecides  and  Fadl  b.  Sahl. 

(20)  Muhammad  b.  al-Hasan  ash-Shaybdni  (\  A.D.  804),  the  Hanafi 
jurisconsult,  and  for  a  while  Qadi  of  Raqqa  in  the  reign  of  Harunu'r- 
Rashid. 

(21)  'Alt  b.  Hamza  al-Kisd'i  (\  A.D.  805),  the  grammarian,  a  Persian 
by  birth,  entrusted  by  Harunu'r-Rashid  with  the  education  of  his 

i  two  sons  al-Amin  and  al-Ma'mun. 


CHIEF   WRITERS  OF  THIS  PERIOD     277 

(22)  Al-' Abbas  b.  al-Ahnaf  (f  A.D.  806),  another  half-Persian  poet 
of  the  Court  of   Harunu'r-Rashid,  chiefly  celebrated  for  his  love- 
poems. 

(23)  Abu  Nuwds  (f  A.D.  806-813),  also  half  Persian  by  birth,  one  of 
the  most  brilliant  and  shameless  poets  of  Harunu'r-Rashid's  Court. 
His  discreditable  adventures,   ready    resource,  and   unfailing   wit 
are  familiar  to  all  readers  of  the  Arabian  Nights. 

(24)  Ibn  Zabala  (\  A.D.  814),  a  pupil  of  Malik  b.  Anas,  who  wrote 
a  History  of  Madina. 

(25)  Yahyd  b.  Biiriq  (who  flourished  about  A.D.  815),  one  of  the 
translators  of  Aristotle  and  other  Greek  philosophers  into  Arabic. 

(26)  Hishdm  b.  al-Kalbi  (f  A.D.  819-820),  the  historian  ;  see  (3) 
supra. 

(27)  Ash-Shdfi'i  (\  A.D.  820),  the  third  of  the  four  orthodox  "  Imams  " 
of  the  Sunnis,  founder  of  the  Shafi'ite  school. 

(28)  Qulrub  (f  4.D.   821),  grammarian  and   philologist,  pupil    of 
Sibawayhi  and  ath-Thaqafi. 

(29)  Al-Farrd  (\  A.D.  822),  grammarian,  pupil  of   al-Kisa'i,  and, 
like  him,  of  Persian  origin. 

(30)  Al-Waqidi  (f  A.D.  823),  the  great  historian   of  the   Muslim 
conquests,  who  was  liberally  patronised  by  Yahya  the  Barmecide, 
and,  on  his  death,  left  behind  him  600  great  boxes  of  books  and 
manuscript  notes,  each  one  of  which  required  two  men  to  carry  it. 

(31)  Abu  'Ubayda  Ma'mar  b.  al-Muthannd  (f  A.D.  825),  a  philologist 
of  strong  Shu'iibi  tendencies  and  of  Jewish-Persian  origin,  the  rival 
of  al-Asma'i  and  the  bitter  satirist  of  the  Arab  tribes.    See  p.  269  supra. 

(32)  Abu' l-'Afdhiya  (|  A.D.  828),  one  of  the  most  notable  poets  of 
this  epoch,  who,  alike  in  his  earnestness,  his  religious  pessimism, 
and  his  extreme  simplicity  of  speech,  stands  in  the  sharpest  contrast 
to  his  contemporary  the  dissolute,  immoral,  and  time-serving  Abu 
Nuwas. 

(33)  Al-'Akawu'ak  (f  A.D.  828),  a  poet  and  panegyrist  of  Persian 
extraction. 

(34)  Ibn  Qutayba  (f  A.D.  828),  a  historian  of  the  first  rank,  also  a 
Persian.     Of  the  twelve  works  composed  by  him  which  Brockelmann 
enumerates  (i,  pp.  120-123)  the  best  known  are  his  Ktldbu'l-Ma'drif 
fed.  Wiistenfeld,    1850),  his  Adabul-Kdtib,  or  Secretary's   Manual 
(Cairo,  A.H.  1300),  and  his  'Uyunu'l-Akhbdr,  now   being  published 
by  Brockelmann  at  Berlin. 

(35)  Al-Asma'i  (f  A.D.  831),  the  grammarian   and  philologist,   a 
prominent    member    of    that    circle    of  learned   men  wherewith 
Harunu'r-Rashid  surrounded  himself. 

(36)  Ibn  Hishdm  (f  A.D.  834),  the  editor  of  Ibn  Ishaq's  Biography 
of  the  Prophet ;  see  (5)  supra. 


2/8  THE   GOLDEN  AGE   OF  ISLAM 

(37)  Al-Akhfash  "the  intermediate"  (al-Awsaf),  or  "the  second" 
(f  A.D.  835,   or   earlier),  grammarian  and  philologist,  a   pupil   of 
Sibawayhi,  and  probably,  like  his  master,  of  Persian  extraction. 

(38)  Qus(d  b.  Liiqd,  a  Christian  of  Ba'labakk  (Baalbek),  a  notable 
translator  and  compiler  of  medical,  astronomical,  and  mathematical 
works,  flourished  about  this  time.     He  was  still  famous  in  Persia  as 
an  authority  on  these  subjects  in  the  middle  of  the  eleventh  century 
of  our  era,  when  Nasir-i-Khusraw  wrote  : — 

Har  kasi  chizi  hami-gt'iyad  zi  lira  ra'y-i-khwish, 
Td  gumdn  dyad-t  Kit,  Qusldy  bin  Liiqd-sti. 

"  Every  one,  in  his  benighted  ignorance,  propounds  some  theory, 
That  thou  may'st  suppose  him  to  be  a  Qusta  b.  Luqa." 

(39)  Al-Madaini  (\  A.D.  840-845),  a  prolific  writer  on  history,  of 
whose   works,   unfortunately,  only   the   titles  (of    which    in   are 
enumerated  in  the  Fihrist)  are  preserved  to  us. 

(40)  Al-Kindi  (f  A.D.  841),  the  eminent  Arabian  philosopher  and 
physician. 

(41)  Ibnn'l-A'rdbi  (\  A.D.  844),  a  well-known  grammarian  of  Indian 
origin,  the  step-son  and  pupil  of  al-Mufaddal  (see  No.  12  supra). 

(42)  Abu  Abdi'lldh  Muhammad  b.  Salldm  al-Jumahi  (f  A.D.  845), 
the  author  of  a  Biography  of  Poets  (Tabaqdtush-Shii'ara),  which  is 
unfortunately  lost,  and  is  only  known  to  us  by  citations. 

(43)  Ibn  Sa'd  (f  A.D.  845),  secretary  to  the  celebrated  al-Wdqidi 
(see  No.  30  supra),  author  of  the  great  Kitdbu't-Tabaqdti'l-Kabir,  which 
is  to  be  published  in  the  near  future  at  Leyden. 

(44)  Abu  Tammdm  (f  A.D.   846),   panegyrist    of    the   Caliph  al- 
Mu'tasim  and  later  of  'Abdu'llah  b.  Tahir,  the  governor  of  Khurasan, 
but  better  known  as  the  author  of  the  great  Anthology  of  ancient 
Arabic  poetry  called  the  Hamdsa,  "  wherein,"  says  his  commentator 
at-Tabrizi,  "  he  showed  himself  a  better  poet  than  in  his  own  verses." 

(45)  Diku'l-Jinn  (\  A.D.  849),  the  Syrian  Shu'ubi  and  Shi'ite  poet. 

Other  names  might  be  added,  but  for  our  present  purpose 
these  are  sufficient,  since  they  serve  to  indicate  how  large  a 
proportion  (thirteen  out  of  forty-four)  of  the  most  celebrated 
contributors  to  "  classical "  Arabic  literature  were  of  Persian 
extraction.  For  fuller  particulars  of  their  works  and  cha- 
racteristics the  reader  must  refer  to  von  Kremer,  Brockelmann, 
and  other  writers  on  the  Litteraturgeschichte  and  Culturgeschichte 
of  the  Arabs, 


Wfi0 


CHAPTER    VIII 

THE    DEVELOPMENTS    OF    RELIGION    AND    PHILOSOPHY    IN    THE 
GOLDEN    AGE    OF    ISLAM. 

Two  of  the  most  important  early  sects  of  Islam,  the  republican 
Kharijites  and  the  fegitimist  Shi'ites,  have  been  already 
discussed  at  some  length  ;  while  the  extremists  (Ghulat)  of  the 
latter  body,  with  their  wild  doctrines  of  Incarnation  (//«/w/), 
"  Return  "  (Rij'at)  and  Metempsychosis  (Tandsukh\  will  form 
the  subject  of  the  following  chapter  (pp.  308  et  seqq.).  These 
sects  may  be  regarded,  primarily  at  least,  as  to  a  large  extent 
political  in  their  character,  and  as  representing  respectively  the 
democratic  Arabian  and  the  monarchic  Persian  tendencies  as 
applied  to  matters  of  religion.  To  them  must  be  added  a 
third  sect  of  mainly  political  character,  the  Murjiya,  and  a 
fourth  of  more  purely  theological  or  speculative  nature,  the 
Qadariyya  or  Mu^tazila.  These  four  sects  are  regarded  by 
von  Kremer,1  who  follows  Ibn  Hazm,2  as  the  four  primary 
divisions  (Hauptsekten)  of  the  Muhammadans;3  and,  according 

1  Gcsch.  d.  lierrschendcn  Idcen  d.  Islains,  pp.  15  et  scqq. 

»  Ibid.,  pp.  10  and  124.  Ibn  Hazm,  a  Spanish  Arab  of  Cordova,  died 
about  A.D.  1054,  and  is  the  author  of  the  oldest  extant  work  on  the  Sects  of 
Islam.  MSS.  of  this  work  (which  has  never  been  printed)  are  very  rare. 
See  Flugel's  Vicuna  Catalogue,  vol.  ii,  pp.  197-199,  and,  for  Ibn  Hazm's 
biography,  de  Slane's  transl.  of  Ibn  Khallikdn,  vol.  ii,  pp.  267-272. 

3  Shahristani,  who  also  reckons  four,  substitutes  the  Sifatiyya  for  the 
Miirjiyu,  while  al-Iji  (A.U.  1355)  enumerates  seven  principal  heterodox 
sects.  See  Dr.  H.  Stciner's  Alu'taziliten,  pp.  2-3, 

"79 


280  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

to  his  view,1  the  two  last  arose  at  the  Umayyad  capital, 
Damascus,  partly  under  Christian  influences,  during  the  first 
half  of  the  eighth  century  of  our  era  (A.D.  718-747),  while  the 
two  first,  as  we  have  already  seen,  were  already  in  existence 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  seventh  century. 

The  Murjiya  (so  called  from  the  root  arja'ay  "he  postponed," 

because  they  postpone  or  defer  judgment  against  sinful  Muslims 

till  the  Day  of  Resurrection,2  and  refuse  to  assert 

The  Murjiya.  ... 

that  any  true  believer,  no  matter  what  sins  he 
may  have  committed,  is  certainly  damned)  were  essentially 
that  body  of  Muslims  who,  unlike  the  Shi'ites  and  Khdrijites, 
acquiesced  in  the  Umayyad  rule.  In  doctrine  they  otherwise 
agreed  in  the  main  with  the  orthodox  party,  though,  as  von 
Kremer  thinks,  they  greatly  softened  and  mitigated  its  more 
terrible  features,  holding  "  that  no  believing  Muslim  would 
remain  eternally  in  hell,"  3  and,  in  general,  setting  faith  above 
works.  Their  views  were  so  evidently  adapted  to  the  environ- 
ment of  the  Umayyad  Court,  with  which  no  sincere  Shi'ite  or 
Kharijite  could  have  established  any  modus  vivendiy  though 
Christians  and  other  non-Muslims  stood  in  high  favour  there, 
and  held  important  offices,4  that  it  is  hard  to  regard  them 
otherwise  than  as  time-servers  of  the  Vicar  of  Bray  type. 
With  the  fall  of  that  ungodly  dynasty  their  raison  d'etre  ended, 
and  they  ceased  to  exist  as  an  independent  party,  though  from 
their  ranks  arose  the  celebrated  Abu  Hanifa,  the  founder  ot 
one  of  the  four  orthodox  schools  of  the  Sunnis  which  endure 
to  the  present  day.S 

"  It  is  much  to  be  regretted,"  says  von  Kremer,6  "  that  we  have 
so  little  accurate  information  about  this  sect,  but  they  shared  the 
fate  of  that  whole  epoch.  The  Arabic  historical  sources  of  the 


1  Culturgesch.  Streifziige,  pp.  1-9. 

a  See  Lane's  Arabic-English  Lexicon,  Bk.  i,  p.  1033. 

3  Gesch.  d.  Herrsch.  Idcen,  p.  25. 

4  Slrcifzitge  p.  2.    The  Court-poet  al-Akhtal  was  a  Christian. 

5  Ibid.,  p.  6,  and  cf.  Herrsch.  Idccn,  p.  26.  6  Ibid.,  p.  3. 


THE  MWTAZILA  281 

Uraayyad  period  perished  altogether,  and  the  oldest  writings 
preserved  to  us  arose  in  '  Abbasid  times.  We  are  therefore  driven 
back  for  information  as  to  the  Murjiya  to  the  scattered  notices 
which  we  find  in  later  Arabic  writers." 

Of  much  greater  interest  and  importance  was  the  sect  of 

the   ^adariyya    ("  Partisans    of    Free    Will ")    or    Mu'tazila 

("  Seceders,")   whose    leading;   idea,  to  quote  Dr. 

The  Mu'tazila.      \  '  . ' 

Sterner,1  "  is  best  characterised  as  the  enduring 
protest  of  sound  human  understanding  against  the  tyrannical 
demands  which  the  orthodox  teaching  imposed  upon  it." 
They  called  themselves  Ahlul-lAdl  w a  t-Tawhid^  or  "  Partisans 
of  the  Divine  Justice  and  Divine  Unity "  ;  of  the  Divine 
Justice,  because  the  orthodox  doctrine  of  Predestination,  which 
represented  God  as  punishing  man  for  sins  forced  upon  him, 
as  it  were,  by  a  Fate  which  he  had  no  power  to  resist,  made 
God  in  effect  a  pitiless  Tyrant  ;  of  the  Divine  Unity,  because, 
said  they,  the  orthodox  party,  who  make  the  Qur'an  coeternal 
and  coexistent  with  God,  and  who  regard  the  Divine 
Attributes  as  separate  or  separable  from  the  Divine  Essence, 
are  really  Polytheists  or  Mushrikun  (associaters  of  other  gods 
with  the  One  God).  The  account  generally  given  of  their 
origin  and  name  is  that  Wasil  b.  4Ata  al-Ghazzal,  a  Persian 

disciple  of  the  celebrated  theologian  Hasan  of 
™dSwasfibB'Ataa  Basra>  differed  from  his  master  as  to  the  question 

whether  a  believer,  after  he  had  committed  a 
grievous  sin,  still  deserved  to  be  called  by  that  appellation. 
Wasil  held  that  such  an  one  could  neither  be  called  a  believer 
nor  an  unbeliever,  but  must  be  regarded  as  occupying  a  middle 
position  between  the  two,  and  withdrew  to  a  different  part  of 
the  mosque  to  expound  this  view  to  those  of  his  fellow-students 
who  followed  him  ;  whereupon  Hasan  of  Basra  observed  to 
those  who  stood  round  him,  "  Ptazala  lan-n&  "  ("  He  hath 
seceded  from  us "),  in  consequence  of  which  saying  Wasil's 
party  were  called  by  their  opponents  "  al- Mu'tazila  "  ("  the 
1  Mu'tasiliten,  p.  4. 


282  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

Separatists  "  or  "  Seceders.") r  This,  the  generally  received 
account  of  the  origin  of  the  sect,  would  make  'Iraq — "  cette 
antique  Babylonie,  ou  la  race  semitique  et  la  race  perse  se 
rencontraient  et  se  melangeaient,  et  qui  devint  bientot  le 
centre  de  la  science,  puis,  peu  de  temps  apres,  sous  les 
'Abbasides,  le  siege  du  gouvernement  " 2 — its  birthplace  and 
cradle  ;  but  von  Kremer,3  as  we  have  seen,  thinks  that  their 
doctrines  were  developed  at  Damascus  under  the  influence  of 
Byzantine  theologians,  notably  of  John  of  Damascus  and  his 
disciple  Theodore  Abucara.  The  other  and  more  definite 
name — £>adariyya  4 — by  which  they  were  known  referred  to 
tiieir  doctrine  of  man's  free-will  ;  and  the  spurious  tradition 
"  al-^adariyya  tu  Majiisu  hadhihil-Ummati"  "the  Partisans 
of  Free-will  are  the  Magians  of  this  Church " 

The  Qadarivya  . 

compared  to     (because,    as    oteincr    observes,    to    explain    the 

Magiuns.          v     . 

existence  or  JLvil  they  also  set  up  a  second 
Principle,  the  Will  of  Man,  against  the  Will  of  God),  was 
freely  applied  to  them  by  their  adversaries.  Even  in  much 
later  times,  at  the  beginning  of  the  thirteenth  century  of  our 
era,  we  find  the  Persian  Sufi  poet  Mahmud  Shabistari  referring 
to  this  tradition  in  that  well-known  manual  for  mystagogues 
the  Guhhan-i-Rdz  S  as  follows  : — 

Hat  an  kas-rd  ki  madh-hab  ghayr-i-Jabr-ast, 
Nabi  farmi'id  kit  mdnind-i-  gabr-ast. 

Every  man  whose  faith  is  other  than  predestinarian 
I?,  according  to  the  Prophet,  even  as  a  guebre." 

Von  Kremer,  as  already  noticed,  considers  that  the  Doctrine 
of  Free-will  was  already  taught  in  Damascus  at  the  end  of  the 
seventh  century  of  our  era  by  Ma'bad  al-Juhani  (died  in 
A.D.  699),  who  had  imbibed  the  doctrine  from  a  Persian 
named  Sinbuya,  and  who  was  put  to  death  by  the  Umayyad 

1  See  Steiner's  Mu'taziliten,  pp.  24-26,  and  Dozy's  Hist,  de  I'Jslamismc, 
p.  204.  2  Dozy,  op.  cit.,  p.  201.  3  Strei/zii^e,  pp.  7-9. 

4  On  the  quite  opposite  senses  in  which  the  word  qadar  is  used,  see 
Steincr,  op.  cit.,  pp.  26-28.  s  Ed.  Whinfield,  1.  538,  pp.  32  and  54. 


THE  DOCTRINE   OF  FREE    WILL        283 

Caliph  'Abdu'l-Malik,  or,  according  to  other  narratives,  by 
Hajjaj  b.  Yusuf.  'Awfi,  the  Persian  thirteenth-century  writer, 
in  the  account  of  the  Umayyad  Caliphs  contained  in  blc.  v 
of  his  immense  collection  of  stories,  the  JawdmPtfl-Hikdydt 
(which,  unfortunately,  exists  only  in  rare  manuscripts),  says 
that  Ghaylan  the  Qadari  was  put  to  death  in  Damascus  by 
Hisham  b.  'Abdu'l-Malik  (A.D.  724-743)  for  teaching  the 
doctrine  of  Free-will ;  and  even  describes  how  he  was 
confuted  by  the  Caliph  in  the  presence  of  the  doctors  of 
Syria.  Yazid  II  (A.D.  720—724),  on  the  other  hand,  is  said 
to  have  himself  embraced  the  views  of  the  Qadariyya,  and, 
if  'Awfi  may  be  believed,  he  also  showed  a  marked  partiality 
for  the  House  of 'Ali.  Shi'ite  and  Qadari  tenets,  indeed,  often 
went  together,  and  the  Shi'ite  doctrine  current  in  Persia  at 
the  present  day  is  in  many  respects  Mu'tazilite,  while  Hasan 
al-Ash'ari,  the  great  opponent  of  the  Mu'tazilites,  is  by  the 
Shi'ites  held  in  horror.  Muhammad  Darabi,1  the  author  of 
an  Apology  for  the  poet  Hafidh,2  mentions  as  one  of  the  three 
grounds  whereon  objection  was  commonly  made  to  his  verses 
that  some  of  them  appeared  to  indicate  an  inclination  to  the 
doctrines  of  al-Ash(ari,  "  which,"  he  adds,  "  the  doctors  of 
the  Imamiyya"  (or  Shf'ites  of  the  Sect  of  the  Twelve) 
"  regard  as  false ; "  and  he  cites  as  an  example  of  these 
Calvinistic  leanings  the  verse  : — 

Dar  kuy-i-nik-ndmi  mdrd  guzar  na-dddand : 
Gar  tu  na-mi  pasandi,  taghyir  kun  qadd-rd  ! 

"  They  suffered  us  not  to  enter  the  Street  of  Good  Repute : 
If  thou  likest  it  not,  then  change  Destiny  ! " 

It  was,  however,  under  the  earlier  'Abbasid  Caliphs,  notably 
in  the  reign  of  the  Caliph  al-Ma'mun  (A.D.  813-833)  and  his 

1  P.  5  of  an  excellent  little  pamphlet  entitled  Latifa-i-GJtaybiyya, 
lithographed  in  Tihran  in  A.H.  1304  (A.D.  1887),  to  which  my  attention  was 
directed  by  my  friend  Mr.  Sidney  Churchill,  one  of  the  finest  Persian 
scholars  I  have  ever  met. 

*  Diwdn  of  Hafujh,  ed.  Rosenzweig-Schwannau,  vol.  i,  p.  16. 


284  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

son  al-Wathiq  (A.D.  842-847),  that  the  Mu'tazilite  school 
was  most  powerful.  It  had  taken  possession  of  these  Caliphs 
and  their  Courts,  had  enriched  its  stores  of  argument  and 
methods  of  dialectic  by  the  study  of  Greek  Philosophy,  and, 
supported  thus  by  its  internal  strength  and  the  external  favour 
of  the  governing  classes,  bade  fair  altogether  to  extinguish 
the  orthodox  party,  towards  whom,  in  spite  of  its  generally 
liberal  and  tolerant  attitude,  it  showed  itself  irreconcilably 
hostile.  The  orthodox  doctrine  that  the  Our'an  was  un- 
create  they  held  in  particular  detestation.  In  the  year 
A.H.  211  (A.D.  826  :  Tabari  iii,  p.  1099)  al-Ma'mun,  having 
nearly  provoked  a  civil  war  by  his  Shi'ite  proclivities,  and 
especially  by  his  nomination  of  the  Eighth  Imam  of  the 
Shi'ites,  'All  ar-Rida,  as  his  successor  to  the  throne  (a  difficulty 
whence,  with  singular  inconsistency,  he  extricated  himself  by 
secretly  poisoning  the  Imam  and  instigating  the  assassination 
of  the  too  zealous  minister,  Fadl  b.  Sahl,  who  had  counselled 
this  step),  proclaimed  the  doctrine  that  the  Qur'an  was  created, 
not  uncreate,  as  an  indisputable  truth  ;  and  seven  years  later, 
in  the  last  year  of  his  Caliphate,  he  compelled  seven  eminent 
men  of  learning  (amongst  whom  was  Ibn  Sa'd,  the  secretary 
of  the  great  historian  al-Waqidi)  to  declare  their  adhesion  to 
this  doctrine,  after  which  he  wrote  a  long  letter  to  Ishaq  b. 
Ibrahim  bidding  him  question  such  theologians  as  he  suspected 
of  holding  the  prohibited  belief,  and  punish  such  as  refused  to 
declare  the  Qur'an  to  be  created.  Some  two  dozen  eminent 
and  highly  esteemed  Muslims,  the  most  notable  of  whom  was 
Ahmad  b.  Hanbal,  the  founder  of  one  of  the  four  orthodox 
schools  of  the  Sunnites,  were  haled  before  this  tribunal,  and, 
by  threats  and  imprisonment,  most  of  them  were  induced  to 
subscribe  to  the  Caliph's  declaration  that  the  Qur'dn  was 
created,  save  Ahmad  b.  Hanbal,  who  stood  firm,  and,  but 
for  the  sudden  death  of  al-Ma'mun,  which  happened  shortly 
afterwards,  would  have  been  in  grave  peril  of  his  life.1  Al- 

1  See  Tabari,  iii,  pp.  1112-1131,  where  this  transaction  is  very  fully 
reported. 


THE  MU'TAZILA   DOMINANT  285 

Withiq  followed  his  father's  example,  and  thereby  provoked 
in  the  year  A.H.  231  (A.D.  845-6)  a  dangerous  conspiracy 
headed  by  Ahmad  b.  Nasr  al-Khuza'i,  which  was,  however, 
revealed  by  the  indiscretion  of  several  of  the  conspirators  who 
had  been  indulging  to  an  unwise  extent  in  nabldh,  or  date- 
wine.1  Notwithstanding  this,  in  the  exchange  of  prisoners 
effected  in  the  same  year2  al-Wdthiq  caused  each  released 
Muslim  captive  to  be  questioned  as  to  his  belief  on  this 
burning  question,  and  such  as  declared  their  belief  that  the 
Qur'an  was  uncreate  he  refused  to  receive  (deeming  them,  as 
it  would  seem,  outside  the  pale  of  Isldm),  but  sent  them  back 
to  their  captivity.  According  to  another  account  also  given 
by  Tabari,3  the  released  captives  were  likewise  called  upon  to 
deny  that  God  on  the  Last  Day  would  be  visible  to  men's  eyes, 
this  doctrine,  like  that  of  the  uncreate  Qur'an,  being  held  by 
the  orthodox,  who  in  all  things  followed  the  very  letter  of 
God's  Word,  and  utterly  refused  to  exercise  that  process  of 
tawil,  or  Allegorical  Interpretation,  affected  by  their  antagonists. 
In  this  point  again  the  Shi'ites  of  to-day  are  at  one  with  the 
Mu'tazilites,  and  Muhammad  Darabi,  in  the  Apology  for  Hdfidh 
already  cited  (p.  283,  n.  i  supra)  gives  the  following  verse  of 
that  poet  as  one  which  has  brought  him  under  the  suspicion 
of  inclining  to  the  revived  orthodoxy  associated  with  the  name 
of  al-Ash'an  : — 

In  jdn-i-'driydt  hi  bi  Hdfidh^  sipurd  Dust — 
Ri'tzi  rukh-ash  bi-binam,  u  taslim-i-way  kunam. 

"This  borrowed   soul   which   the   Friend   [i.e.,  God]  entrusted   to 

Hafidh— 
One  day  /  shall  see  His  Face  and  shall  yield  it  up  to  him." 

It  would  not  be  just  that  our  admiration  for  the  Mu'tazilites, 
whose  liberal  views  so  greatly  conduced  to  the  splendour  of 
this  wonderful  epoch,  should  tempt  us  to  overlook  their 

1  Tabari,  iii,  pp.  1343-1350.     See  also  Dozy's  Vhlamisme,  pp.  238-239, 
3  Ibid.,  p.  1351.  3  Ibid.,  pp.  1533-4. 


286          RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

unusual  and  regrettable  harshness  towards  those  doctrines 
which  are  now  generally  prevalent  and  accounted  orthodox 
in  all  Sunnite  countries.  Yet  perhaps  there  was  a  reason 
for  their  harshness.  They  may  have  been  conscious  that 
doctrines  of  extreme  Calvinism — or  Fatalism,  if  the  word 
be  preferred — must  in  the  long  run  (at  least  in  Asia,  which 
is  more  logical  than  Europe  in  its  applications  of  theory  to 
daily  life)  destroy  effort  and  prevent  progress  ;  they  may  have 
foreseen  that  the  literal  interpretation  of  an  inspired  Scripture 
which  followed  naturally  from  a  belief  in  its  Eternity,  not 
only  in  the  future  but  in  the  past,  would  inevitably  stereotype 
and  narrow  the  religious  outlook  in  such  a  way  that  all 
flexibility,  all  power  of  adapting  itself  to  new  conditions  or 
carrying  conviction  to  the  minds  of  intelligent  men,  would  be 
lost  ;  and  they  may  have  felt  that  the  belief  that  God  could 
be  seen  by  men  must  tend  to  an  anthropomorphic  and  debased 
conception  of  the  Deity.  Whether  or  no  they  realised  these 
results  of  the  victory  of  orthodoxy,  such  were  in  reality  its 
effects,  and  the  retrograde  movement  of  Islam,  inaugurated 
by  the  triumph  of  al-Ash'arf  (of  which  we  shall  speak  in  a 
later  chapter),  was  but  accelerated  and  accentuated  by  the 
overthrow  of  the  Caliphate  and  the  sack  of  Baghdad  by  the 
vandals  of  Mongolia  in  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century. 
Changiz  and  Hulagu  on  the  one  hand,  and  al-Ashcan  on  the 
other,  probably  contributed  as  much  as  any  three  individuals 
to  the  destruction  of  the  material  and  intellectual  glories  of 
the  Golden  Age  of  the  early  *Abbasid  Caliphs. 

The  -  further  development  of  the  Mu'tazilite  doctrine  is 
admirably  summed  up  by  Dozy  (Chauvin's  French  translation, 
pp.  205-207)  :— 

"This  doctrine  was    subsequently   remodelled  and   propagated 
under  the  influence    of  the  Philosophy   of    Aristotle. 

Further  develop-  ; * .  J  ...... 

merit  of  the      The  sect,  as  was  m  the  nature  of  things,  subdivided. 

^doctrine6      All  the  Mu'tazilites,  however,  agreed  in  certain  points. 

They  denied    the    existence    of    the    Attributes    in 

God,  and  contested  everything  which  could  prejudice  the  dogma 


DOCTRINE   OF  THE  MU'TAZILA        287 

of  the  Divine  Unit}'.  To  remove  from  God  all  idea  of  injustice, 
they  recognised  man's  entire  freedom  of  action.  They  taught  that  all 
the  truths  necessary  for  salvation  belong  to  the  domain  of  reason, 
and  that  they  may  be  acquired  solely  by  the  light  of  reason,  no  less 
before  than  after  Revelation,  in  such  wise  that  man,  at  all  times  and 
in  all  places,  ought  to  possess  these  truths.  But  to  these  primary 
propositions  the  different  sects  added  others  peculiar  to  themselves. 
Most  of  them  have  treated  theology  with  much  profundity  ;  others, 
on  the  contrary,  became  involved  in  hair-splittings,  or  even  diverged 
widely  from  the  spirit  of  Islam.  Some  there  were,  for  example, 
who  believed  in  Metempsychosis,  and  who  imagined  that  the 
animals  of  each  species  form  a  community  which  has  as  a  prophet 
an  animal  like  unto  themselves  ;  strange  to  say  they  based  this  last 
doctrine  on  two  verses  of  the  Qur'an.  And  there  were  many  other 
follies  of  the  same  kind.  But  it  would  be  unjust  to  render  all  the 
Mu'tazihtes  responsible  for  the  errors  of  some,  and,  when  all  is  said 
and  done,  they  deserve  to  be  spoken  of  with  respect.  In  meditating 
on  what  religion  bade  them  believe,  they  became  the  rationalists  of 
Islam.  Thus  it  came  about  that  one  of  their  principal  affirmations 
was  that  the  Qur'an  was  really  created,  although  the  Prophet  had 
asserted  the  contrary.  '  Were  the  Qur'an  uncrcate,'  they  said,  '  it 
would  be  necessary  to  admit  the  existence  of  two  Eternal  Beings.' 
From  the  moment  when  the  Qur'an,  or  Word  of  God,  was  held  as 
something  created,  it  could  no  longer,  having  regard  to  the  immu- 
tability of  the  Deity,  be  considered  as  belonging  to  His  essence. 
Thereby  the  whole  dogma  of  revelation  was  little  by  little  seriously 
shaken,  and  many  Mu'tazilites  frankly  declared  that  it  was  not 
impossible  to  write  something  as  good  as,  or  even  better  than,  the 
Qur'an.  They  therefore  protested  against  the  dogma  of  the  divine 
origin  of  the  Qur'an  and  against  Inspiration.  The  idea  which  they 
entertained  of  God  was  purer  and  more  exalted  than  that  of  the 
orthodox.  They  would  not  listen  to  any  corporeal  conception  of 
the  Divinity.  Mahomet  had  said,  '  One  day  ye  shall  see  your  Lord 
as  you  saw  the  full  moon  at  the  Battle  of  Badr,'  and  these  words, 
which  the  orthodox  took  literally,  were  for  them  an  ever  new 
stumbling-block.  They  therefore  explained  them  away  by  saying 
that  man,  after  his  death,  would  know  God  by  the  eyes  of  the  spirit, 
that  is  to  say,  by  the  reason.  They  equally  refused  to  countenance 
the  pretension  that  God  created  the  unbeliever,1  and  showed  them- 


1  Meaning,  of  course,  that  every  man  was  created  a  potential  believer, 
and  that  the  unbelievers  only  became  so  by  their  own  frowardness,  not  by 
God's  will. 


288  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

selves  but  little  pleased  with  the  consecrated  formula  which  says  of 
God  that '  He  hurteth  and  He  advantageth.'  They  could  not  admit 
the  miracles  related  in  the  Qur'an,  and  so  denied  that  the  sea  was 
dried  up  to  yield  a  passage  for  the  Israelites  led  by  Moses,  that 
Moses'  rod  was  changed  into  a  serpent,  and  that  Jesus  raised  the 
dead  to  life.  Mahomet  himself  did  not  escape  their  attacks.  There 
was  one  sect  which  maintained  that  the  Prophet  married  too  many 
wives,  and  that  his  contemporary  Abu  Dharr  al-Ghifari  had  much 
more  self-restraint  and  piety  than  him,  which  also  was  perfectly 
true." 

The    best    European    accounts    of   the    Mu'tazilites    with 

which  I  am  acquainted,  besides  Dozy's,  are  those  of  Steiner  * 

and  von  Kremer,  but  I  must  content  myself  here 

The  Mu'tazilite          .  .  .  .  '.     . 

and  Greek       with  briefly  indicating  the  results  of  their  mvesti- 

Philosophy.  . 

gations  as  to  the  progress,  influence,  relations,  and 
final  decline  of  this  interesting  movement.  As  to  its  origin 
these  two  scholars  differ,  the  former  regarding  it,  at  least  in  its 
primary  form,  as  "  arising  in  Islam  independently  of  all 
external  influences,"  while  the  latter,  as  we  have  seen,  con- 
siders that  it  was  influenced  even  in  its  inception  by  Christian 
theology.  Be  this  as  it  may,  at  a  very  early  date  it  was 
profoundly  influenced  by  Greek  Philosophy. 

"We  may  venture  to  assert,"  says  Steiner  (p.  5),  "that  the 
Mu'tazilites  were  the  first  who  not  only  read  the  translations  of  the 
Greek  Naturalists  and  Philosophers  prepared  under  the  auspices  of 
al-Mansiir  and  al-Ma'mun  (A.D.  754-775  and  813-833),  and  evolved 
therefrom  all  sorts  of  useful  knowledge,  but  likewise  exerted  them- 
selves to  divert  into  new  channels  their  entire  thoughts,  which  had 
hitherto  moved  only  in  the  narrow  circle  of  ideas  of  the  Qur'an,  to 
assimilate  to  their  own  uses  the  Greek  culture,  and  to  combine  it 
with  their  Muhammadan  conscience.  The  Philosophers  proper, 
al-Farabi  (f  A.D.  950),  Ibn  Sina  (Avicenna,  f  A.D.  1037),  and  Ibn 
Rushd  (Averroes,  f  A.D.  1198),  belong  first  to  a  later  age.  Al-Kindi 
(f  circ.  A.D.  864)  was  the  earliest,  and  lived  somewhat  before  them, 


1  Two  pamphlets,  both  published  in  1865.  One  is  entitled  Die  Mu'tazi- 
liten  oder  die  Freidenker  im  Islam;  the  other,  Die  Mu'taziliten  ah 
Vorlaufer  der  islamischen  Dogmatiker  und  Philosophen,  nebst  Anhatig, 
enthaltend  kritische  Annterkungen  zu  Gazzdli's  Munqidh. 


DECLINE   OF  THE  MU'TAZILA         289 

but  seems  to  have  devoted  his  special  attention  to  precisely  those 
problems  raised  by  the  Mu'tazilites.  His  followers,  however, 
avoided  theological  questions.  Without  directly  assailing  the  Faith, 
they  avoided  all  conflict  with  it,  so  far  as  possible.  Theology  and 
Natural  Science,  including  Philosophy,1  were  treated  as  separate 
territories,  with  the  harmonising  of  which  no  further  trouble  was 
taken.  Ibn  Sina  appears  to  have  been  a  pious  Muslim  ;  yet  Shah- 
ristani  includes  him  amongst  those  who  properly  belonged  to  no 
definite  confession,  but,  standing  outside  Positive  Religion,  evolved 
their  ideas  out  of  their  own  heads  (Ahlu'l-ahwd\^,  Ibn  Rushd  also  is 
accounted  a  good  Muslim.  He  endeavoured  to  show  that  philo- 
sophical research  was  not  only  allowed,  but  was  a  duty,  and  one 
enjoined  even  by  the  Qur'an  ;  but,  for  the  rest,  he  goes  his  own 
way,  and  his  writings  are,  with  few  exceptions,  of  philosophic  and 
scientific  contents.  Thus  was  the  breach  between  Philosophy  and 
Dogma  already  fully  established  with  Ibn  Sina.  The  Mu'tazilite 
party  had  exhausted  its  strength  in  the  subtle  controversies  of  the 
schools  of  Basra  and  Baghdad.  Abu'l-Husayn  of  Basra,  a  contem- 
porary of  Ibn  Sina,  was  the  last  who  gave  independent  treatment  to 
their  teaching,  and  in  some  points  completed  it.  Zamakhshari 
(f  A.D.  1143-4),  tne  famous  and  extraordinarily  learned  author  of  the 
Kashshdf,  reduced  the  moderate  ideas  of  his  predecessors  to  a 
pleasant  and  artistic  form,  and  applied  them  consistently  and  adroitly 
to  the  whole  region  of  Qur'anic  exegesis,  but  gave  to  the  teaching 
itself  no  further  development." 

The  political  power  of  the  Mu'tazilites  ceased  soon  after 
the  accession  of  al-Mutawaklcil,  the  tenth  'Abbasid  Caliph 
(A.D.  847),  but  the  school,  as  we  have  seen,  was  powerfully 
represented  nearly  three  centuries  later  by  Zamakhshari,  the 
great  commentator  of  the  Qur'an.  The  subsequent  fate  of 
the  views  which  they  represented  will  be  discussed  to  some 
extent  in  later  chapters,  but,  for  the  convenience  of  the  reader, 
and  for  the  sake  of  continuity,  we  may  here  briefly  summarise 
the  chief  stages  which  preceded  thp,  final  "  Destruction  of  the 
Philosophers"  by  al-Ghazzali  and  his  successors,  and  the 

1  "The  Arabian  Aristotelians,"  says  Steiner,  "were  properly  rather 
Natural  Scientists  than  Philosophers  ;  their  most  signal  achievements 
belong  to  the  region  of  observation  of  natural  phenomena,  above  all 
Medicine  and  Astronomy." 

2O 


290          RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

triumph    of  orthodox    Islam    in    the    form   wherein    it    now 
prevails  in  all  Sunnite  countries. 

(i)  The  Period  of  Orthodox  Reaction  began  with  al-Muta- 
wakkil  (A.D.  847-861),  the  brother  and  successor  of  al- 
Wathiq.  Dozy,  after  describing  some  of  the  acts  of  barbarity 
and  ingratitude  committed  by  this  "cruel  and  ungrateful 
tyrant," J  continues  :  "  Notwithstanding  all  this,  al-Muta- 
wakkil  was  extremely  orthodox,  and  consequently  the  clerical 
party  judged  him  quite  otherwise  than  we  should  do.  A 
well-known  Muslim  historian  (Abu'1-Fida)  is  of  opinion  that 
he  went  a  little  too  far  in  his  hatred  for  'Ali,  for  the  orthodox 
also  held  this  prince,  in  his  capacity  of  cousin  and  son-in-law 
of  the  Prophet,  in  high  esteem  ;  *  but  for  the  rest,'  says  he, 
*  he  was  of  the  number  of  the  most  excellent  Caliphs,  for  he 
forbade  man  to  believe  that  the  Qur'an  was  created.'  He  was 
orthodox  ;  what  matter  then  if  he  was  a  drunkard,  a  volup- 
tuary, a  perfidious  scoundrel,  a  monster  of  cruelty  ?  But  he 
was  even  more  than  orthodox  :  animated  by  a  burning  zeal  for 
the  purity  of  doctrine,  he  applied  himself  to  the  persecution  of 
all  those  who  thought  otherwise,  torturing  and  exterminating 
them  as  far  as  possible.  The  prescriptions  relative  to  the 
Christians  and  Jews,  which  during  the  preceding  reigns  had 
almost  fallen  into  oblivion,  were  renewed  and  aggravated."2 
Towards  'All  and  his  descendants  this  wicked  Caliph  enter- 
tained a  particular  hatred  :  it  pleased  him  that  his  Court  jester 
should  pad  himself  with  a  great  paunch  (for  'AH  had  grown 
corpulent  in  later  life)  and,  in  the  assumed  character  of  the 
Prophet's  cousin  and  son-in-law,  should  dance  before  him 
with  all  manner  of  grotesque  buffooneries.  A  celebrated 
philologist  who,  in  reply  to  his  interrogations,  ventured  to 
prefer  the  sons  of  'All  to  those  of  the  tyrant  Caliph,  was 
trampled  to  death  by  the  Turkish  guards.  The  tomb  or 
al-Husayn,  the  Martyr  of  Kerbela,  was  destroyed  by  his  order, 

*  Dozy's  I'Islamisme  (Chauvin's  translation),  pp.  248  et  seqq. 
"    See  Tabari,  iii,  pp.  1389  cl  scqq.,  and  1419. 


AL-ASH'ARf  291 

and  its  site  ploughed  and  sown,  and  the  visitation  thereof 
forbidden.  Even  the  most  eminent  and  honourable  theo- 
logians, such  as  al-Bukharf,  the  great  traditionist,  were  exposed 
to  charges  of  heresy. 

(2)  The  Teaching  of  al-Adfari*  So  far,  as  Dozy  points  out, 
the  triumph  of  the  orthodox  was  merely  material ;  intellectually, 
and  in  methods  of  dialectic,  they  retained  the  same  inferiority 
as  before  in  respect  to  their  opponents  the  Mu'tazilites.  Not 
till  twelve  years  had  elapsed  after  al-Mutawaklcil's  death  was 
born  (in  A.M.  260  =  A.D.  873-4)  the  man  who,  having  been 
trained  in  the  Mu'tazilite  school,  renounced  their  doctrines 
in  his  fortieth  year,  and,  armed  with  the  logical  weapons  with 
which  they  themselves  had  supplied  him,  deserted  to  the  hostile 
camp,  and,  for  the  remainder  of  his  life,  carried  on  an  energetic 
and  successful  campaign  against  their  views.  This  was  Abu'l- 
Hasan  al-Ash'ari,  a  descendant  of  that  foolish  Abu  Miisd 
al-Ash'ari  to  whose  ineptitude  Mu'dwiya  owed  so  much  in  the 
arbitration  of  Dawmatu'l-Jandal.  His  literary  activity  was 
enormous,  and  after  he  had  broken  with  his  teacher,  the 
Mu'tazilite  doctor  al-Jubba'i,2  he  produced  polemical  works 
on  all  manner  of  theological  topics  to  the  number  of  two  or 
three  hundred,  of  which  Spittas  enumerates  the  titles  of  one 
hundred.  So  distrustful  of  philosophy  were  the  orthodox  that 
many  of  them,  especially  the  fanatical  followers  of  Ibn  Hanbal, 
unwilling  to  believe  that  an  alliance  with  it  could  result  in 
aught  but  evil,  continued  to  regard  al-Ash'ari  with  the  deepest 
suspicion  ;  but  in  the  end  his  services  to  orthodoxy  were  fully 
recognised. 

"  In  course  of  time,"  says  Dozy,  after  speaking  of  the  growing 
influence  of  al-Ash'ari's  teaching,  "  the  influence  of  the  Mu'tazilites 
continued  to  diminish  more  and  more.  The  loss  of  temporal  power 


1  See  Spitta's  excellent  monograph,   Zur  Geschichte  Abu'l-Hasan   Al* 
Ash'arfs  (Leipzig,  1876). 
3  Dozy,  pp.  252-256.  »  Op.  cit.,  pp.  62-81. 


292  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

was  the  first  misfortune  which  befel  them  ;  the  defection  of 
al-Ash'ari  was  the  second.  'The  Mu'tazilites,'  says  a  Musulman 
author,  '  formerly  carried  their  heads  high,  but  their  dominion 
ended  when  God  sent  al-Ash'ari.'  Nevertheless  they  did  not  dis- 
appear all  at  once,  and  perhaps  they  exist  even  at  the  present  day, 
but  they  had  no  longer  any  power.  Since  the  eleventh  century1 
they  have  had  no  doctor  who  has  achieved  renown,  while  the 
system  of  al-Ash'ari,  on  the  contrary,  has  been  more  and  more 
elaborated,  so  that,  in  its  ultimate  form,  it  includes  not  only 
religious  dogma,  but  also  embraces  matters  purely  philosophic,  such 
as  ontology,  cosmology,  &c." a 

) 

(3)  The  Brethren  of  Purity  (Ikhwanu's-Safa).  For  our 
knowledge  of  this  remarkable  society  or  fraternity  of  Ency- 
clopaedists and  Philosophers  we  are  chiefly  indebted  to  Fliigel  3 
and  Dieterici,4  especially  the  latter,  who  has  summarised  and 
elucidated  their  teachings  in  a  series  of  masterly  monographs. 
Favoured  by  the  liberal  ideas  of  the  Persian  and  Shi'ite  House 
of  Buwayh,  who,  displacing  for  a  time  the  Turkish  element, 
became  practically  supreme  at  Baghdad  about  the  middle  of 
the  tenth  century  (A.D.  945),  this  somewhat  mysterious 
society  carried  on  the  work  of  the  Mu'tazilites,  aiming 
especially  at  the  reconciliation  of  Science  and  Religion,  the 
harmonising  of  the  Law  of  Islam  with  Greek  Philosophy,  and 
the  synthesis  of  all  knowledge  in  encyclopaedic  form.  The 
results  of  their  labours,  comprising  some  fifty  separate  treatises,5 
were  published,  according  to  Fliigel,  about  A.D.  970,  and 
supply  us  with  an  admirable  mirror  of  the  ideas  which  prevailed 
at  this  time  in  the  most  enlightened  circles  of  the  metropolis 

1  Since  Zamakhshari  lived  till  A.D.  1144,  it  would  seem  better  to  substi- 
tute "twelfth  "  for  "  eleventh." 

3  Dozy,  pp.  255-256.  3  Z.  D.  M.  G.,  vol.  xiii,  pp.  1-43. 

4  In   some  dozen   publications   (texts,   translations,   and  dissertations;, 
published  between  the  years  1858  and  1886. 

5  Published  in  four  vols.  at  Bombay,  A.H.  1305-6  ;  a  Persian  version  of 
the  same,  comprising  fifty  tracts  (pp.  167),  was  lithographed  at  Bombay 
in  A.H.  1301  =  A.D.  1884.     For  the  contents  of  these  tracts  see  Dieterici's 
Die  Philosophic  der  Araber  im  x  Jahrhundert  nach  Christ.,  enter  Theil, 
Einleitung  u.  Makrokosmos  (Leipzig,  1876),  pp.  131-137. 


THE  IKHWANU  'S-SAFA  293 

of  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs.  As  authors  of  these  tracts  five  men 
of  learning  are  named  by  Shahrazuri,  viz.,  Abu  Sulayman 
Muhammad  b.  Nasr  al-Busti,  called  also  al-Muqaddasi  (or 
al-Maqdasi),  Abu'l-Hasan  'All  b.  Hdrun  az-Zinjdnf,  Abu 
Ahmad  an-Nahrajuri  (or  Mihrajani),  al-'Awfi,  and  Zayd  b. 
Rifa'a  ;  of  whom,  having  regard  to  their  nisbas^  the  first  three 
at  any  rate  would  seem  to  have  been  Persians.  So  too  was 
Ibn  Sind  (Avicenna),  the  great  physician  and  philosopher  with 
whose  death  (A.D.  1037),  according  to  Dieterici,1  "the 
development  of  philosophy  in  the  East  came  to  an  end." 

(4)  Al-Ghazzali,  "  the  Proof  of  Islam  "  and  Champion  of 
Orthodoxy.  This  eminent  theologian,  who  was  professor  at 
the  Nidhamiyya  College  of  Baghdad  from  A.D.  1091  to  1095, 
and  died  in  A.D.  mi,  who  had  explored  all  realms  of  specu- 
lation accessible  to  him,  and  had  at  last  found  refuge  in  the 
mysticism  of  the  more  moderate  $iifis,  "  felt  himself  called," 
as  Steiner  says,2  "to  stand  forth  as  the  scientific  apologist  or 
Islam,  and  to  restore  the  threatened  faith  to  surer  ground." 
Tholuck  (Bib/.  Sacra^  vi,  233),  cited  by  H.  A.  Homes  at 
pp.  7-8  of  his  translation  of  the  Turkish  version  of  the 
Alchemy  of  Happiness  (Albany,  N.Y.,  1873)  appraises  him 
very  highly.  "  GhazzaH,"  says  he,  "  if  ever  any  man  has 
deserved  the  name,  was  truly  a  divine,  and  he  may  justly  be 
placed  on  a  level  with  Origen,  so  remarkable  was  he  for  learn- 
ing and  ingenuity,  and  gifted  with  such  a  rare  faculty  for  the 
skilful  and  worthy  exposition  of  doctrine.  All  that  is  good, 
worthy,  and  sublime  which  his  great  soul  had  compassed,  he 
bestowed  upon  Muhammadanism  ;  and  he  adorned  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Qur'dn  with  so  much  piety  and  learning  that,  in 
the  form  given  them  by  him,  they  seem,  in  my  opinion,  worthy 
the  assent  of  Christians.  Whatsoever  was  most  excellent  in 
the  philosophy  of  Aristotle  or  in  the  Sufi  mysticism,  he  dis- 

1  Die  Philosophic  det  Araber  im  x  Jahrhimdert  nach  Christ.,  enter  Theil, 
Einlcilung  it.  Makrokosmos  (Leipzig,  1876),  p.  158. 
3  Mu'tazilttcn,  p.  12. 


294          RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

erectly  adapted  to  the  Muhammadan  theology.  From  every 
school  he  sought  the  means  of  shedding  light  and  honour  upon 
religion,  while  his  sincere  piety  and  lofty  conscientiousness 
imparted  to  all  his  writings  a  sacred  majesty.  He  was  the 
first  of  Muhammadan  divines."  Dieterici,  on  the  other  hand, 
judges  him  harshly.  *"  As  a  despairing  sceptic,"  says  he,1  "  he 
springs  suicidally  into  the  All-God  [*.<?.,  the  all-pervading 
Deity  of  the  Pantheists]  to  kill  all  scientific  reflexion." 

The  teachings  of  the  "  Brethren  of  Purity  "  were  carried 
to  the  West  by  a  Spanish  Arab  of  Madrid,  Muslim  b. 
Muhammad  Abu'l-Qasim  al-Majnti  al-Andalusi,  who  died 
in  A.D.  1004-1005.  Thanks  to  them,  and  later  to  the  great 
Moorish  philosopher  Ibn  Rushd  (Averroes),  Spain  became  a 
centre  of  philosophical  learning,  whence,  during  the  Middle 
Ages,  Europe  derived  such  light  as  it  possessed  on  these  great 
questions.  "The  strife  between  Nominalism  and  Realism," 
says  Dieterici,2  "  which  for  centuries  stirred  the  learned  world, 
is  a  product  of  this  development,  and  had  already,  during  the 
ninth  and  tenth  centuries,  set  in  motion  all  the  minds  of  the 
East." 

Of  the  Sunnites  little  need  here  be  said,  since,  though 
numerous  in  Persia  under  the  various  Turkish  or  half  Turkish 
dynasties  which  generally  prevailed  there  until  the  rise  of  the 
Safawis  in  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  counting 
amongst  their  numbers  Persians  so  eminent  as  P"aridu'd-DI:i 
'Attar,  Sa'di,  Jalalu'd-Din  Riimi,  and  many  others,  they  were 
never  really  in  harmony  with  Persian  tendencies  and  aspirations, 
and  are  at  the  present  day  almost  extinct  save  at  Lar  and  in  a 
few  other  districts.  It  should  be  mentioned,  however,  that  the 
founders  of  the  four  orthodox  schools,  those  of  the  Hanafites, 
Malikites,  Shafi'ites,  and  Hanbalites,  all  flourished  during  this 
period  of  Mu'tazilite  domination.  Of  these  the  eldest,  Abu 
Hanifa,  was  born  in  A.D.  700  and  died  in  767.  He  was  of 

1  Op,  cit,,  p.  157.  «  Op.  cit.,  p.  161, 


THE  ORTHODOX  SCHOOLS  295 

Persian  descent.1  Malik  was  born  at  Madfna  in  A.D.  713  or 
714,  and  died  in  795.  He  was  cruelly  flogged  by  al-Mansur 
for  suspected  disaffection  towards  the  'Abbasid  dynasty  ;  "  from 
which  time,"  says  Ibn  Khallikin,2 ."  he  rose  higher  and  higher 
in  public  estimation,  so  that  the  punishment  he  underwent 
seemed  as  if  it  had  been  an  honour  conferred  upon  him." 
Ash-Shan" 'i  was  an  Arab  of  the  tribe  of  Quraysh,  was  born  in 
the  year  (some  say 3  on  the  very  day)  of  Abu  Hanifa's  decease, 
and  died  at  Cairo  in  A.D.  820.  Lastly,  Ahmad  b.  Hanbal,  a 
native  of  Merv,  but  apparently  of  Arab  race,  was  born  in 
A.D.  780,  and  died  at  Baghdad  in  855.  He  was  the  favourite 
pupil  of  ash-Shafi'i,  who  said,  on  setting  out  for  Egypt,  "  I 
went  forth  from  Baghdad  leaving  behind  me  no  more  pious 
man  and  no  better  jurisconsult  than  Ibn  Hanbal. "4  To  his 
steadfast  courage  in  refusing  to  admit  that  the  Qur'an  was 
created  allusion  has  already  been  made. 

These  are  the  four  "  Imams  "  of  the  orthodox  Sunnites,  and 

the  schools  which  they  founded  differ  but  in  minor  points,  and 

are  on  good  terms  with  one  another.     The  Hana- 

dox  schools      fite  school   prevails   in    Turkey,  the  Malikite  in 

ot  tlic  Sunnis.      ,,  .         -,.  ,rt.         .       _ 

Morocco,  the  Shafnte  in  Egypt  and  Arabia,  and 
the  Hanbalite  in  some  parts  of  Africa.  All  are  held  in  equal 
contempt  by  the  Shicites  ;  and  Ndsir-i-Khusraw,  the  great 
Isma'ili  poet  and  propagandist  of  the  eleventh  century  of  our 
era,  goes  so  far  as  to  accuse  them  of  sanctioning  the  most 
detestable  vices  5 — a  charge  which,  save  in  so  far  as  concerns  the 
alleged  crudely  anthropomorphic  tendencies  of  the  Hanbalites, 
merits  no  serious  consideration. 

Of  the  Shi'ites  it  will  be  more  convenient  to  speak  at  length 
in  a  subsequent  chapter,  but  it  may  be  noted  that 

The  Shi'itcs.  .  '  ' 

the  great  schism   which   divided   them    into   the 

1  See  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan,  vol.  iii,  p.  555. 
'  Ibid.,  vol.  ii,  p.  547.  This  probably  occurred  in  A.D.  764-5. 
3  Ibid.,  vol.  ii,  p.  571.  «  Ibid.,  vol.  i,  p.  44. 

*  See  his  Diwdn,  lithographed  at  Tabriz  in  A.H.  1280,  pp.  115  and  209. 
Cf.  Dozy's  Islamistne,  pp.  441-443. 


296  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

"Sect  of  the  Seven"  (Sabliyya]  or  Isma'ilis,  and  the  "  Sect  of 

the  Twelve"  (Ithna  lashariyya)  which  prevails  in  Persia  at  the 

present  day,  had  its  origin   in  this  period  which 

Origin  of  the  •  i      •  T         i         i  •  r     i       T      <• 

-sect  of  the      we  are  considering.     In  the  doctrine  of  the  Ima- 

Seven "  and  the  ,        ,     , . •    ,     .  ... 

"Sect of  the     mate,  the  belief  that  the  supreme  spiritual  autho- 

Twelve." 

rity  must  be  vested  in  one  of  the  descendants  of 
'All,  designated  in  each  case  by  his  predecessor,  and  endowed 
with  supernatural  or  even  divine  attributes,  both  sects  are 
agreed,  and  they  are  also  agreed  as  to  the  succession  of  Imams 
as  far  as  the  sixth,  Ja'far  as-Sadiq,  who  died  A.£.j?6^.  :  Here, 
however,  the  difference  begins.  Ja'far  had  in  the  first  instance 
designated  his  eldest  son  Isma'fl  to  succeed  him,  but  later 
(owing,  it  is  generally  said,  to  his  discovery  that  Isma'il  had 
indulged  in  the  forbidden  juice  of  the  grape)  he  took  the 
Imamate  from  him  and  conferred  it  on  his  younger  brother 
J^Iusa^  .railed  al-fcadhim^  Soon  afterwards  Isma'il  died,  and 
his  body  was  publicly  shown  ere  its  interment,  in  order  that 
there  might  be  no  doubt  as  to  the  fact  of  his  death.  Yet, 
though  most  of  the  Shi'ites  transferred  their  allegiance  to  Musa, 
some  remained  faithful  to  Isma'il,  either  refusing  to  believe 
that  he  was  dead  (for  he  was  reported  by  some  to  have  been 
seen  subsequently  to  the  date  of  his  alleged  death  at  Basra),1  or 
maintaining  that  the  Imdmate  had  been  transmitted  through 
him  (since  he  had  predeceased  his  father,  and  had  therefore, 
in  their  view,  never  actually  assumed  the  Imam's  functions)  to 
his  son  Muhammad  ;  in  either  case  fixing  the  total  number  of 
Imams  at  seven,  and  repudiating  the  claims  of  Musa  and  his 
five  successors.  Further  discussion  of  the  developments  of  these 
two  sects  may  be  conveniently  deferred  to  a  subsequent  chapter. 
Lastly,  a  few  words  must  be  said  here  of  the  earlier  Sufis, 
or  Mystics,  whose  fully  developed  system  of  Spiritualistic 
Pantheism  will  be  described  in  another  place. 

The  early  Sufis.  .  . 

Their  name,  as  is  now   generally  admitted,  has 
nothing  at  all  to  do  with  the  Greek  aofyoq  (which  appears, 
1  Shahristdni,  ed.  Cureton,  p.  146. 


THE  EARLY  StfF/S 

written  with  the  soft  letter  */»,  not  the  hard  sad^  in  the  Arabic 
faylashfy  "  philosopher,"  and  safsati,  "  sophist  ")  ;  nor,  as  the 
Sufis  themselves  pretend,  with  the  Arabic  root  safd,  "  purity  "  j 
nor  with  the  ahlus-su/a,  or  "people  of  the  bench,"  religious 
mendicants  of  the  early  days  of  Islim  who  sat  outside  the 
mosque  craving  alms  from  the  devout ;  but  is  simply  derived 
from  the  Arabic  word  suf,  "  wool,"  as  is  shown,  amongst  other 
things,  by  the  Persian  epithet  pashmlna-pushy  "wool-clad," 
which  is  commonly  applied  to  them.  Woollen  garments  were 
from  the  first  regarded  as  typical  of  the  primitive  simplicity 
affected  by  the  early  Muslims  :  of  'Umar,  the  second  Caliph, 
Mas'udi  tells  us1  that  "he  used  to  wear  a  jubba  of  wool  (s&f) 
patched  with  pieces  of  leather  and  the  like,"  while  Salmon  the 
Persian  is  described  by  the  same  historian2  as  "  wearing  woollen 
raiment,"  and  the  same  fact  is  recorded  3  of  Abu  'Ubayda  b. 
al-Jarrah.  Later,  when  luxury  became  prevalent,  those  who 
adhered  to  the  old  simple  ways  of  the  Prophet's  immediate 
successors,  silently  protesting  against  the  growing  worldliness 
and  extravagance  of  their  contemporaries,  were  termed 
"Sufis,"  and,  in  this  earliest  form,  alike  in  respect  to  their 
simple  attire,  their  protest  against  ostentation  and  extrava- 
gance, their  piety  and  quietism,  they  present  a  remarkable 
analogy  with  the  early  Quakers.  There  is  always  in  extreme 
quietism,  and  that  spirituality  which  is  impatient  of  mere 
formal  worship  and  lip-service,  a  tendency  towards  Pantheism  ; 
but  in  these  early  Sufis  this  tendency  is  much  less  noticeable 
than,  for  instance,  in  Eckhart,  Tauler,  and  the  fourteenth- 
century  German  mystics  ;  though  later,  under  the  influence  of 
Neo-Platonist  ideas,  it  became  very  conspicuous.  Of  the  early 
§ufis  al-Qushayri  (d.  A.D.  1073)  sPea^s  as  follows  : — 4 

"  Know  that  after  the  death  of  the  Apostle  of  God  the  most  excel- 
lent of  the  Muslims  were  not  at  the   time  distinguished   by  any 

1  Muruju'dh-Dhahab,  ed.  Barbier  de  Meynard,  vol.  iv,  p.  193. 

•  Ibid.,  p.  195.  3  ibid.,  p.  196. 

«  Cited  at  p.  31  of  Jami's  Nafiilnitu'l-Uns,  ed.  Nassau  Lees,  Calcutta,  1858. 


298  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

distinctive  name  save  in  regard  to  their  companionship  with  the 
Apostle,  seeing  that  there  existed  no  greater  distinction  than  this; 
wherefore  they  were  called  '  the  Companions.'  And  when  those  of 
the  second  period  came  in  contact  with  them,  such  of  these  as  had 
held  converse  with  the  '  Companions  '  were  named  the  '  Followers,' 
a  title  which  they  regarded  as  of  the  noblest.  Then  those  who 
succeeded  them  were  called  '  Followers  of  the  Followers.'  There- 
after men  differed,  and  diverse  degrees  became  distinguished,  and 
the  elect  of  mankind,  who  were  vehemently  concerned  with  matters 
of  religion,  were  called  '  Ascetics '  and  '  Devotees.'  Then  heresies 
arose,  and  there  ensued  disputes  between  the  different  sects,  each 
one  claiming  to  possess  '  Ascetics,'  and  the  elect  of  the  people  of  the 
Sunna  (the  Sunnites),  whose  souls  were  set  on  God,  and  who  guarded 
their  hearts  from  the  disasters  of  heedlessness,  became  known  by 
the  name  of  Sufis  ;  and  this  name  became  generally  applied  to  these 
great  men  a  little  before  the  end  of  the  second  century  of  the 
Flight"  (A.H.  2oo  =  A.D.  815-816). 

A  little  further  on  (op.  cit.y  p.  34)  Jami  explicitly  states  that 
the  term  "Sufi"  was  first  applied  to  Abu  Hashim,  who  was 
born  at  Kufa,  but  passed  most  of  his  life  in  Syria,  and  died 
in  A.D.  777-8  ;  and  (p.  36)  that  the  Sufi  doctrines  were  first 
explained  and  expressed  by  Dhu'n-Nun  of  Egypt,  a  pupil  of 
Malik  (the  founder  of  the  Malikite  school  mentioned  above), 
who  died  in  A.D.  860,  that  they  were  expanded,  systematised, 
and  reduced  to  writing  by  Junayd  of  Baghdad  (d.  A.D.  910), 
and  openly  preached  in  the  pulpit  by  Shibli  (d.  A.D.  945). 
Very  few  of  the  great  Sufi  teachers  lived  before  the  close  of 
the  second  century  of  the  Flight  (A.D.  815-816)  :  Ibrahim 
b.  Adham  (t  A.D.  777),  Da'iid  of  Tayy  (t  A.D.  781),  Fudayl 
b.  'lyad  (t  A.D.  803),  and  Ma'ruf  of  Karkh  (t  A.D.  815), 
were,  I  think,  the  only  ones  of  note  except  the  above-men- 
tioned Abu  Hashim.  Hasan  of  Basra  (t  A.D.  728),  who  has 
been  already  spoken  of  in  connection  with  the  Mu'tazilites,  is 
sometimes  reckoned  amongst  them  ;  but,  as  Dozy  has  pointed 
out,1  his  sombre  religion,  chiefly  inspired  by  fear,  contrasts 

1  L'lslamisme  (Chauvin's  French  translation),  pp.  319-320.  Cf.  also 
pp.  201-202,  where  Hasan's  character  is  well  depicted. 


THE  EARLY  StfF/S  299 

sharply  with  the  religion  of  love  proper  to  the  mystics.  The 
saintly  woman  Rabi'a  al-'Adawiyya1  (t  752-753)  is  a  far 
better  type  of  the  true  mystic,  and  many  of  her  sayings  strongly 
recall  those  of  Saint  Theresa.  It  is  in  allusion  to  her  that 
Jami  says  in  his  Nafahdt  (ed.  Nassau  Lees,  p.  716)  : — 

Wa  law  kdna  'n-nisd'u  ka-md  dhakarna 
La  faddaltu  'n-nisd'a  'ala'r-rijdli ; 
Fa  lat-ta'niihu  li'smi  'sh-shanisi  'ayb'"1, 
Wa  la  'l-iadhkiru  fakhr""  li'l-hildli. 

"Were  women  all  like  those  whom  here  I  name, 
Woman  to  man  I  surely  would  prefer; 
The  Sun  is  feminine,3  nor  deems  it  shame ; 
The  Moon,  though  masculine,8  depends  on  her." 

The  following  anecdote  told  by  Dozy  3  is  typical  of  her 
attitude  :  One  day,  being  ill,  she  was  visited  by  Hasan  of  Basra 
and  Shaqiq  of  Balkh.  The  former  said,  "  That  one  is  not 
sincere  in  faith  who  does  not  patiently  endure  the  chastening 
of  the  Lord."  Shaqfq,  desiring  to  improve  upon  this,  said, 
"  That  one  is  not  sincere  in  faith  who  does  not  find  pleasure  in 
the  chastening  of  the  Lord."  But  Rabi'a  replied,  "  That  one 
is  not  sincere  in  faith  who,  in  the  contemplation  of  the  Lord, 
does  not  forget  the  chastening." 

It  is  related  in  the  Memoirs  of  the  Saints  compiled  by 
Shaylch  Fandu'd-Din  'Attar,  a  great  Persian  mystic  of  the 
thirteenth  century,  that  she  was  once  asked,  "  Dost  thou  hate 
the  Devil  ? "  "  No,"  she  replied.  They  asked,  "  Why  not  ? " 
u  Because,"  said  she,  "  my  love  for  God  leaves  me  no  time  to 
hate  him."  "  I  saw  the  Prophet  of  God,"  she  continued,  "in 
a  dream,  and  he  asked  me, '  O  Rabi'a,  dost  thou  love  me  ? '  *  O 
Apostle  of  God,'  I  replied,  c  who  is  there  who  loveth  thee  not  ? 
But  the  love  of  God  hath  so  taken  possession  of  every  particle 

•  See  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikdn,  vol.  i,  pp.  515-517. 

•  In  Arabic  grammar.  *  Op.  cit.,  p.  319. 


360  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

of  my  being  that  there  is  no  room  left  me  to  love  or  hate  any 
one  else.' " 

These  sayings,  which  might  be  indefinitely  multiplied,  will 
indicate  the  character  of  this  early  mysticism  of  Islam.  The 
wild  pantheistic  character  which  is  later  assumed,  especially  in 
Persia,  was,  as  I  think,  superadded  to  it  at  a  much  later  date. 
The  philosophy — so  far  as  it  can  be  called  a  philosophy — 
which  it  gradually  developed  is,  in  my  opinion,  mainly  of  Neo- 
Platonist  origin,1  and,  contrary  to  a  view  which,  though  losing 
ground,  is  still  very  prevalent,  was  very  little,  if  at  all,  influenced 
by  Indian  speculations.8  -Von  Kremer  differentiates  the  earlier 
Arabian  quietist  Sufiism  from  the  later  Persian  pantheistic 
development,  expressing  the  opinion  3  "  that  Sufiism  proper, 
as  it  finds  expression  in  the  different  Dervish  orders  (which  I 
sharply  distinguish  from  the  simple  ascetic  aim  which  already 
appeared  in  the  earliest  Christianity,  whence  it  passed  over  into 
Islam)  arose  essentially  from  Indian  ideas,  and  in  particular 
from  that  school  of  Indian  philosophy  known  by  the  name  of 
Vedanta." 

In  another  place  4  he  says  : — 

"  It  appears,  indeed,  that  Sufiism  took  into  itself  two  different 
elements,  an  older  Christian-ascetic,  which  came  strongly  to  the 
front  even  in  the  beginning  of  Islam,  and  then  later  a  Buddhist- 
contemplative,  which  soon,  in  consequence  of  the  increasing 
influence  of  the  Persians  on  Islam,  obtained  the  upper  hand,  and 
called  into  being  the  Mystics  proper  of  Islam.  The  former  aim 
expressed  more  the  Arabian  character,  the  latter  the  Persian." 

Fully  admitting  the  force  and  value  of  this  distinction,  I  am 

1  This  point  has  been  very  admirably  worked  out  by  my  friend  and 
former  pupil,  Mr.  R.  A.  Nicholson,  in  his  Selected  Poems  from  the  Divdn-j. 
Shams-i-Tabriz  (Cambridge,  1898),  especially  pp.  xxx-xxxvi.  Cf.  von 
Kremer,  Gesch.-Streifzuge,  p.  45. 

a  This  is,  for  example,  Dozy's  view  (I'lslamisme,  p.  317),  and  he  cites 
Trumpp  (Z.  D.  M.  G.,   xvi,   p.   244)   as   saying   "  Dass  der   Sufismus  ein 
indisches  Produkt   ist,   dariiber  kann   kein  Zweifel  obwalten,  und  noch 
naher  bestimmt  ist  der  Sufismus  ein  speciell  Buddhistisches  Erzeugniss." 
»  Gesch.-Streifzuge,  p.  46.       4  Herrsch.  Id.,  p.  67. 


ORIGIN  OF  SUF1ISM  301 

not  convinced  that  the  existence  of  Indian  influence  has  been 
satisfactorily  proved.  Persian  studies  have  suffered  much  at 
the  hands  of  Indianists  and  Comparative  Mythologists  and 
Philologists,  t.g.y  in  the  attempts  made  to  explain  the  Avesta 
solely  from  the  Vedas  without  regard  to  the  Zoroastrian 
tradition  on  the  one  hand,  and  in  the  favour  accorded, 
particularly  in  England  and  Germany,  to  the  hideous  Indian 
pronunciation  of  the  modern  language  on  the  other,  not  to 
mention  the  exaggerated  admiration  often  expressed  for  the 
Persian  compositions  of  Indian  writers,  and  the  concurrent 
neglect  of  all  Persian  literature  produced  in  Persia  during  the 
last  four  centuries  x  ;  and  we  have  good  reason  to  be  on  our 
guard  against  the  tendency  of  Indianists  to  trace  everything, 
so  far  as  possible,  to  an  Indian  origin,  or  to  generalise  about 
"  the  Aryan  genius."  Long  before  Neo-Platonism  came  to 
the  Arabs  it  was,  as  has  been  already  observed  (p.  167  supra} 
brought  to  Persia  in  the  days  of  Nushirwan  (sixth  century  of 
our  era),  and  I  confess  that,  so  far  as  I  can  judge,  Sufi 
pantheism  presents  far  more  striking  analogies  with  Neo- 
Platonism  than  with  either  Vedantism  or  Buddhism,  while 
historically  it  is  much  more  likely  that  it  borrowed  from  the 
first  than  from  either  of  the  two  last.  To  the  later  develop- 
ments of  Sufiism,  to  which  alone  those  remarks  apply,  we 
shall  recur  in  a  subsequent  chapter. 

Before  leaving  the  religious  manifestations  of  this  epoch,  it 
is  proper  to  remind  the  reader  what  religions,  besides  Judaism, 

Zoroastrianism,  and  Christianity,  and  what 
™eMugh<Kib.  philosophies,  besides  those  of  the  Greeks,  were  still 

active  and  potent  forces  in  Western  Asia.  Apart 
from  Manichaeanism,  of  which  we  shall  have  a  few  more 
words  to  say,  elements  of  the  old  Babylonian  civilisation  were 

1  See,  for  example,  the  article  on  Persian  Literature  in  the  Encyclopedia 
Britanmca.  Dr.  Ethe  does  more  justice  to  the  modern  poets  of  Persia  in 
his  article  Neupcrsische  Litteratur  (pp.  311-316)  in  vol.  ii  of  Geiger  and 
Kubn's  Grnndriss  dcr  Iranischen  Pliilologie  (Str«issburg,  1897). 


302  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

represented  by  the  Mandaeans  or  true  Sabaeans  (Sabiyun)  of  the 
marshes  between  Wasit  and  Basra  (the  ancient  Chaldsea),  also 
named  by  the  Arabs  from  their  frequent  ceremonial  ablutions 
al-Mughtanla^  which  term,  misapprehended  by  the  Portuguese 
navigators  of  the  seventeenth  century,  gave  rise  in  Europe  to 
the  absurd  misnomer  u  Christians  of  St.  John  the  Baptist."* 

From  these  true  Sabaeans  the  pseudo-Sabaeans  of  Harran  (the 
ancient  Carrhae)  must  be  carefully  distinguished.  The  learned 
Chwolson  was  the  first  to  explain  in  his  great  work 
Sabransof  Die  Ssobler  und  der  Ssabismus  (2  vols.,  St.  Peters- 
burg, 1856)  the  apparently  hopeless  confusion 
which  till  that  time  had  surrounded  the  term  "Sabasan." 
Here  we  must  confine  ourselves  to  stating  the  curious  fact 
which  he  brought  to  light,  viz.,  that  since  about  A.D.  830  two 
perfectly  distinct  peoples  have  been  confounded  together  under 
this  name,  to  wit,  the  above-mentioned  Mandasans  or  Mughtasila 
of  Chaldasa,  and  the  Syrian  heathens  who  flourished  at  Harran 
(about  half-way  between  Aleppo  and  Mardin)  until  the 
eleventh  century  of  our  era,2  and  that  this  confusion  was 
brought  about  in  the  following  way.3  When  the  Caliph 
al-Ma'mun  passed  through  the  district  of  Harran  on  his  last 
campaign  against  the  Byzantines,  he  remarked  amongst  the 
people  who  came  out  to  meet  him  and  wish  him  God-speed 
certain  persons  of  strange  and  unfamiliar  appearance,  wearing 

1  See  Chwolson's  Ssabier  und  Ssabismus,  vol.  i,  p.  100.  The  most 
important  works  on  the  Mandaeans  are  :  Dr.  A.  J.  H.  Wilhelm  Brandt, 
Die  Manddische  Religion  (1889)  ;  Idem,  Mand'aische  Sckriften  (1893)  ; 
Mand.  Grammalik  by  Th.  Noldeke,  1875  ;  H.  Pognon,  Consul  de  France 
a  Alep,  Inscr.  Maud,  des  coupes  de  Khouabir  (1898).;  Of  the  book  of  the 
Mandaeans,  the  Sidrd  Rabbit  or  Ginzd,  there  are  two  editions,  Norberg's, 
in  three  vols.  (1815-1816),  and  Petennann's,  in  two  vols.,  (1867).  Noldeke 
describes  their  literature  as  "  eine  Literatur,  welche  voll  des  grossten 
Widersinns  ist,  geschrieben  in  eine  Mundart  von  der  ein  Kenner  des 
Syrisches  zunachst  den  Eindruck  starker  Entartung  erhalt." 

3  Chwolson,  op.  cit.,  i,  pp.  669,  671. 

3  Ibid.,  ii,  pp.  14-19-  The  facts  are  recorded  in  the  Fihrist  (ed.  Fliigel, 
pp.  320-321)  on  the  authority  of  an  almost  contemporary  Christian  writer, 
Abu  Yusuf  al-Qati'i. 


THE  SABAEANS  303 

their  hair  extremely  long,  and  clad  in  tightly-fitting  coats 
(qabty.  Al-Ma'mun,  astonished  at  their  appearance,  inquired 
who  and  what  they  were,  to  which  they  replied, "  Harranians." 
Being  further  questioned,  they  said  that  they  were  neither 
Christians,  Jews,  nor  Magians  ;  while  to  the  Caliph's  inquiry 
"  whether  they  had  a  Holy  Book  or  a  Prophet,"  they  returned 
"  a  confused  reply."  Convinced  at  last  that  they  were 
heathens  ("  Zindiqs  and  worshippers  of  idols "),  the  Caliph 
ordered  them,  under  pain  of  death,  either  to  embrace  Islam,  or 
to  adopt  "one  of  the  religions  which  God  Almighty  hath 
mentioned  in  His  Book,"  giving  them  respite  for  their  decision 
till  his  return  from  the  war.  Terrified  by  these  threats,  the 
Harranians  cut  their  long  hair  and  discarded  their  peculiar 
garments,  while  many  became  Christians  or  Muhammadans ; 
but  a  small  remnant  would  not  forsake  their  own  religion,  and 
were  greatly  perplexed  and  troubled  until  a  Muhammadan 
jurist  offered,  for  a  consideration,  to  show  them  a  way  out  of 
their  difficulty.  So  they  brought  him  much  fine  gold  from 
their  treasuries,  and  he  counselled  them  to  call  themselves 
Sabasans  when  al-Ma'mun  returned  to  question  them,  since  the 
Sabaeans  were  mentioned  in  the  Qur'an,  yet,  since  little  was 
known  of  them,  the  change  of  name  would  involve  no  change 
of  beliefs  or  customs.  But  al-Ma'mun  returned  not,  for  death 
overtook  him  on  that  march  ;  and  most  of  the  Harranians  who 
had  declared  themselves  Christians  at  once  openly  apostatised, 
and  returned  to  their  old  beliefs,  which  their  brethren  who 
had  adopted  Isldm  dared  not  do,  since  apostasy  is  punished  with 
death  in  the  Muhammadan  law.  And  "  since  that  time,"  says 
the  narrator,  "  they  have  kept  this  name  (of  Sabaeans)  ;  for 
previously  there  were  in  Harrdn  and  the  surrounding  district  no 
people  who  bore  the  name  of  Sabaeans." 

Now  these  pseudo-Sabasans  of  Harrdn,  a  remnant  of  the 
ancient  Syrian  pagans  of  Mesopotamia,  included  "  une  elite 
d'hommes  fort  instruits,  un  corps  d'aristocrates  d'esprit,  qui  se 
sont  distingues  dans  les  sciences,  et  qui  ont  enrichi  les  litteratures 


304  RELIGION  AND  PHILOSOPHY 

syrienne  et  arabe  d'un  grand  nombre  d'ouvrages  traitant  de 
diverses  matieres."  J  Harran,  since  the  time  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  had  been  deeply  under  the  influence  of  Greece,  so  that 
it  was  surnamed  'EAAijvoTroAte,  and  its  inhabitants,  though 
speaking  at  this  time  the  purest  dialect  of  Syriac,  were  in 
many  cases  partly  Greek  by  extraction.  %  Strongly  opposed  to 
the  Christianity  professed  by  most  of  their  compatriots,  they 
were  deeply  attached  to  Greek  culture,  and  more  particularly 
to  the  Neo-Platonist  philosophy ;  and  for  khis  reason  their  city 
had  long  served  as  a  rallying-point  for  all  those,  including  the 
Emperors  Caracalla  and  Julian  the  Apostate,  who  clung 
passionately  to  pagan  Culture.  And  now,  under  the  'Abbasid 
Caliphate,  it  was  these  pagans  of  Harran  who,  more  than  any 
one  else,  imparted  to  the  Muslims  all  the  learning  and  wisdom 
of  the  Greeks  which  they  had  so  jealously  guarded  ;  providing 
the  capital  of  the  Caliphs  with  a  series  of  brilliant  scholars, 
such  as  Thdbit  b.  Qurra  (t  A.D.  901),  his  son  Abu  Sa'id 
Sindn,  his  grandsons  Ibrdhim  and  Abu'l-Hasan  Thabit,  his 
great-grandsons  Ishdq  and  Abu'l-Faraj,  and  many  others, 
whose  biographies  will  be  found  in  chap,  xii  of  the  first  book 
of  Chwolson's  great  work.  Many  of  these  attained  positions 
of  the  greatest  eminence  as  physicians,  astronomers,  mathe- 
maticians, geometricians,  and  philosophers ;  and,  thanks  to 
their  influence  at  a  Court  singular  in  the  world's  history  for  its 
devotion  to  learning,  their  co-religionists  were  suffered  to  con- 
tinue in  their  thinly-disguised  paganism.2 

The  Syrians,  both  heathen  and  Christian,  werd,  indeed,  the 

1  Kunik's  compte-rendu  of  Chwolson's  work,  Melanges  Asiatiques, 
vol.  i,  p.  663.  .. 

3  Several  sects  existing  in  Western  Asia  at  the  present  day,  such  as  the 
Nusayris,  the  Yezidis  (or  so-called  "  Devil-worshippers,")  &c.,  are,  as 
Chwolson  and  others  have  pointed  out,  almost  certainly  survivals  of 
ancient  pagan  communities  ;  though,  to  secure  a  doubtful  tolerance  from 
their  Muhammadan  governors,  they  have  been  careful  to  conceal  their 
real  beliefs  and  practices,  and  to  vindicate  their  right  to  be  regarded  and 
treated  as  "  People  of  the  Book,"  by  a  liberal,  though  not  always  skilful 
use  of  names  regarded  by  the  Muslims  as  holy. 


THE  SYRIANS  OF  HARRAN  30$ 

great  transmitters  of  Greek  learning  to  the  East,  whence  it 
was  brought  back  by  the  Arabs  to  the  West.  The  matter 
is  so  important  that  I  subjoin  a  translation  of  Carl  Brockel- 
mann's  excellent  remarks  :  —  x 

"Syria  and  Mesopotamia  were,  from  the  time  of  Alexander  the 
Great  and  his  followers,  exposed  to  the  influences  of  Greek  civilisa- 
tion. The  supremacy  of  the  Romans  and  their  successors  the 
Byzantines  in  Syria  furthered  in  every  way  the  diffusion  of  Hellenic 
culture,  which  made  special  progress  from  the  time  when,  associated 
with  Christianity,  it  began  to  react  on  the  religious  sense  of  the 
people.  The  Syrians  were,  indeed,  but  feebly  disposed  for  original 
production,  but  they  were  extraordinarily  inclined  and  fitted  to 
assimilate  to  themselves  the  results  of  foreign  intellectual  endeavour. 
Thus  there  arose  in  the  Syrian  monasteries  numerous  translations, 
not  only  of  the  spiritual  literature  most  widely  current  in  the  Greek 
Church,  but  also  of  nearly  all  the  profane  authors  (notably  of 
Aristotle,  Hippocrates,  and  Galen)  who  dominated  the  secular 
learning  of  that  epoch. 

"  Already  in  the  Persian  Empire  under  the  rule  of  the  Sasanians 
the  Syrians  ^w^te^hgJiajtsjnjttej^^JSreel^  culture.  Naturally  it  was 
only  secular  learning  which  was  there  promoted  by  the  Court  and 
Government.  About  the  year  A.D.  550  Khu^ca^y.^AjiuahicaaQ  founded 

3  ^njwr^TFy  fnr  the  pursuit  of   philoso- 


phicaandmedical  studies,  and  this  plant  of  Graeco-Syrian  culture 
continued  to  flourish  even  into  'Abbasid  times. 

"  Greek  learning  found  a  third  home  in  the  Mesopotamian  city  of 
Harran,  whose  inhabitants,  surrounded  by  a  wholly  Christianised 
population,  had  retained  their  ancient  Semitic  heathenism.  With 
them,  as  formerly  in  Babylon,  the  disposition  for  mathematical  and 
astronomical  studies  was  closely  united  therewith.  But  with  them 
also,  notwithstanding  the  fairly  high  level  which  they  had  already 
attained  through  the  Assyrian-Babylonian  civilisation,  these  studies 
did  not  remain  uninfluenced  by  the  Greek  spirit. 

"  From  all  these  three  sources,  now,  was  Greek  learning  brought 
to  the  Arabs  in  translations.     Already  at  the  Court  of  al-Mansiir  we     / 
meet  with  a  physician  fj^m^undi-Shan_yr,  who  is  supposed  to  have    / 
translated  medical  works  intoAfabicTwhile  under  Harun  flourished    I 
the  translator  ^j^^fl^b.M^^i^l^.  But  it  wa's  ffie  Caliph  al-  J 
Ma'mun,  himself  filled  witlT  understanding  of,  and  a  lively  interest  in, 


1  Gesch.  d.  Arabische  Litteratur,  vol.  i,  pp.  201  et  seqq, 
21 


3o6 

all  scientific  endeavours,  who  gave  the  greatest  impulse  to  this  activity. 
^Hff  gfll^"'  1-fiihjHn.  (^prmftft  of  WkHnm  '),  with  its  attached  library 
and  astronomical  observatory,  founded  by  him  in  Baghdad,  was  the 
culminating  point  of  an  active  endeavour  to  promote  learning.  The 
translations  produced  under  him  and  his  immediate  successors  have 
entirely  overshadowed  those  of  the  older  school,  and  are  alone 
preserved  to  us." 

Amongst  the  most  eminent  translators  whose  names  here 
follow  are  the  Christians,  Qusta  b.  Luqa  of  Ba'labaklc 
(Baalbek)  ;  Hunayn  b.  Ishaq  of  Hira,  his  son  Ishaq,  and  his 
nephew  Hubaysh. 

Thus  did  the  civilisation  of  'Abbasid  Baghdad  become  the 
inheritor  of  the  ancient  wisdom  of  Assyria,  Babylonia,  Persia, 
India,  and  Greece  ;  and  for  this  it  was  chiefly  indebted  to 
heathens  like  Thabit  b.  Qurra,  Christians  like  Hunayn  and 
Qusta,  Magians,  converted  or  unconverted,  like  Ibnu  '1- 
Muqaffa4,1  or  Mu'tazilite  "  heretics "  like  'Amr  b.  Bahr  al- 
Jahidh,  besides  sundry  Jews  and  Nabathaeans.  To  this 
splendid  synthesis  the  Arabs,  though,  as  it  has  been  said,  "  one 
of  the  acutest  peoples  that  have  ever  existed,"  lent  little  save 
their  wonderful  and  admirable  language  ;  but  the  functions  of 
assimilation,  elucidation,  and  transmission  they  performed  in  a 
manner  which  has  made  mankind,  and  especially  Europe,  their 
debtors.  That  they  were  sensible  of  their  own  indebtedness  to 
these  non-Muslims,  who  bestowed  upon  them  the  wisdom  of 
the  ancients,  appears,  amongst  other  things,  from  the  elegy 
composed  in  praise  of  Thabit  b.  Ourra,  the  Sabnean  physician 
and  mathematician,  by  the  poet  San  ar-Raffa,2  wherein  he 

1  Amongst  translators  from  Pahlawi  into  Arabic  are  mentioned  in  the 
Fihrist  (ed.  Fliigel,  pp.  244-245),  besides  Ibnu'l-Muqaffa',  the  family  of 
Naw-Bakht  (see  also  op.  cit.,  pp.  177  and  274),  who  were  ardent  Shi'ites,  BaN 
nirn,  the  son  of  Mardan-shah,  nnibad  of  Nishapur,  and  a  dozen  others. 
Mention  is  also  made  of  two  learned  Indians  who  made  translations  from 
the  Sanskrit,  and  of  the  celebrated  Ibnu'  1-Wahshiyya  who  translated  the 
Book  of  Nabathcean  Agriculture. 

2  Ibn  Khallikan,  Wiistenfeld's  text,  vol.  i,  No.  127 ;  de  Slane's  transl., 
vol.  i,  pp.  288-289. 


HERESY  IN  FASHION-  307 

says:  "Philosophy  was  dead,  and  he  revived  it  amongst  us;  the 
traces  of  medicine  were  effaced,  and  he  restored  them  to  light." 
Strange  and  heterogeneous  were  the  elements  which  made 
up  the  intellectual  atmosphere  of  Baghdad  during  the  first 
century  of  'Abbasid  rule.  The  pious  Muslims  of  Mecca  and 
Madlna  who  came  thither  were  scandalised  to  find  unbelievers 
invested  with  the  highest  offices  at  Court,  and  learned  men  of 
every  religion  holding  friendly  debate  as  to  high  questions  of 
ontology  and  philosophy,  in  which,  by  common  consent,  all 
appeal  to  revealed  Scripture  was  forbidden.  Yet  was  there  one 
religious  community  which  seemed  wholly  excluded  from  the 
general  toleration  of  that  latitudinarian  Court :  to  wit,  the 
Manichaeans,  or  Zindiqs  as  they  were  generally  called.  Perse- 
cutions of  the  Zindiqs  are  mentioned  by  Tabarf  as  occurring 
in  the  reign  of  al-Mahd{  (A.D.  780,  782)  and  al-Had{  (A.D. 
786-7).  In  the  reign  of  Haninu'r-Rashfd  a  special  Inquisitor 
(Sahibu  'z-Zanddiqa]  was  appointed  to  detect  and  punish 
Manichaeans,1  amongst  whom  not  only  Persians  and  other 
foreigners,  but  even  pure  Arabs,  like  the  poets  Sdlih  b.  *Abdu'  1- 
Quddiis  and  Mud4  b.  Ayds,  were  numbered.  In  the  reign  of 
al-Ma'mun,  whose  truly  Persian  passion  for  religious  specula- 
tion earned  him  the  title  of  dmlru  l-Kafirln,  "  Commander 
of  the  Unfaithful," 2  the  lot  of  the  Zindiqs  was  less  hard  ; 
nay,  according  to  von  Kremer3  it  was  fashionable  to  pose 
as  a  heretic,  and  we  find  a  poet  remonstrating  in  the 
following  lines  with  one  of  these  sheep  dressed  in  wolf's 
clothing  : — 

"  0  Ibn  Ziydd,  father  oj  Ja'farf 
Thou   professest    outwardly   another  creed    than    that   which    tltou 

hidesi  in  thy  heart. 

Outwardly,  according  to  thy  words,  thou  art  a  Zindiq, 
But  inwardly  thou  art  a  respectable  Musl'm. 
Thou  art  no  Zindiq,  but  thou  desirest  to   be  regarded  as  in  the 

fashion .'" 

1  Von  Kramer's  Streifzfige,  pp.  210  et  scqq. 

•  Al-Ya'qiibi,  ed.  Houtsma,  p.  546.  3  op.  cit.,  pp.  41-42. 


CHAPTER  IX 

THE    GREAT   PERSIAN    HERESIARCHS    OF    THIS   PERIOD 

THE  active  life  of  the  pre-Muslim  creeds  of  Persia,  as  opposed 

to  outwardly  Muhammadan  heresies  embodying  and  reviving 

in  new  forms  pre-Muslim  and  non-Muslim  ideas. 

Bih-afaridh.  . 

finds  its  latest  expression  in  the  Pseudo-Prophet 

Bih-afarfdh     the     son     of     Mahfurudhi'n,    of    whom    scanty 

accounts  are  preserved  to  us  in  the  Fihrist  (p.  344) 

Ai-Bininj's      an(j  jn   al-Bi'ninPs    Chronology  of  Ancient   Nations 

account  of  him.  °J     J 

(Sachau's  transl.,  pp.  193-4),  whereof  the  latter  is 
as  follows : — 

"  In  the  days  of  Abu  Muslim,  the  founder  of  the  'Abbasid  dynasty, 
came  forward  a  man  called  Bih-afaridh  the  son  of  Mahfurudhin  in 
Khwaf,  one  of  the  districts  of  Nishapur,  in  a  place  called  Sira- 
wand,  he  being  a  native  of  Zawzan.  In  the  beginning  of  his  career 
he  disappeared  and  betook  himself  to  China r  for  seven  years.  Then 
he  returned,  bringing  with  him  amongst  other  Chinese  curiosities  a 
green  shirt,  which,  when  folded  up,  could  be  held  in  the  grasp  of  a 
man's  hand,  so  thin  and  flexible  it  was.  He  went  up  to  a  temple  during 
the  night,  and  on  descending  thence  in  the  morning  was  observed 
b)  a  peasant  who  was  ploughing  part  of  his  field.  He  told  this  man 
that  he  had  been  in  heaven  during  his  absence  from  them,  that  heaven 
and  hell  had  been  shown  unto  him,  that  God  had  inspired  him,  had 
clothed  him  in  that  shirt,  and  had  sent  him  down  to  earth  in  that 
same  hour.  The  peasant  believed  his  words,  and  told  people  that 


Perhaps  influenced  by  the  legend  of  Mani  (Manes). 
308 


BIH-AFARfDH  309 

he  had  beheld  him  descending  from  heaven.  So  he  found  many 
adherents  amongst  the  Magians  when  he  came  forward  as  a  prophet 
and  preached  his  new  doctrine. 

"  He  differed  from  the  Magians  in  most  rites,  but  believed  in 
Zoroaster  and  claimed  for  his  followers  all  the  institutes  of  Zoroaster. 
He  maintained  that  he  secretly  received  divine  revelations,  and 
established  seven  prayers  for  his  followers,  one  in  praise  of  the  one 
God,  one  relating  to  the  creation  of  heaven  and  earth,  one  relating 
to  the  creation  of  the  animals  and  their  nourishment,  one  relating 
to  death,  one  relating  to  the  Resurrection  and  Last  Judgment,  one 
relating  to  those  in  heaven  and  hell  and  what  is  prepared  for  them, 
and  one  in  praise  of  the  people  of  Paradise. 

"  He  composed  for  them  a  book  in  Persian.  He  ordered  them  to 
worship  the  substance  of  the  Sun,  kneeling  on  one  knee,  and  in 
praying  always  to  turn  towards  the  Sun  wherever  it  might  be  ;  to 
let  their  hair  and  locks  grow  ;  to  give  up  the  zamzama '  at  dinner  ; 
not  to  sacrifice  small  cattle  unless  they  were  already  enfeebled  ;  not 
to  drink  wine  ;  not  to  eat  the  flesh  of  animals  that  have  died  a  sudden 
death,  as  not  having  been  killed  according  to  prescription  ;  not  to 
marry  their  mothers,  daughters,  sisters,  or  nieces,3  and  not  to  exceed 
the  sum  of  four  hundred  dirhams  as  dowry.  Further,  he  ordered 
them  to  keep  roads  and  bridges  in  good  condition  by  means  of  the 
seventh  part  of  their  property  and  of  the  produce  of  their  labour. 

"When  Abu  Muslim  came  to  Nishapiir,  the  miibadhs  and 
herbadlts3  assembled  before  him,  telling  him  that  this  man  had 
infected  Islam  as  well  as  tlieir  own  religion.  So  he  sent  'Abdu'llah 
b.  Shu'ba  to  fetch  him.  He  caught  him  in  the  mountains  of  Badghis 
and  brought  him  before  Abu  Muslim,  who  put  him  to  death,  together 
with  such  of  his  followers  as  he  could  capture. 

"  His  followers,  called  Bih-dfaridhiyya,  still  keep  the  institutes  of 
their  founder,  and  strongly  oppose  the  Zamzamis  amongst  the 
Magians.  They  maintain  that  the  servant  of  their  prophet  had  told 
them  that  the  prophet  had  ascended  into  heaven  on  a  common  dark- 
brown  horse,  and  that  he  will  again  descend  unto  them  in  the  same 
way  as  he  ascended,  and  will  take  vengeance  on  his  enemies."  4 


'  That  is,  the  mumbling  of  prayers  and  graces  chararacteristic  of  the 
Zoroastrian  practice. 

*  These  marriages  (called  kkvetu-das)  were  not  only  sanctioned  but 
approved  by  Zoroastrianism. 

3  The  priests  of  the  second  and  third  grades  of  the  Zoroastrian  religion. 
The  chief  priests  are  called  dastur. 

4  Compare  the  expectations  entertained  by  the  followers  of  al-Muqanna, 


3io     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

According  to  the  short  account  in  the  Fihrtst  (p.  344), 
Bih-dfarfdh  accepted  Islam  at  the  hands  of  two  of  Abu 
Muslim's  ddlh  named  Shabi'b  b.  Dab.  and  'Ab 
du'llah  b.  Sa'id,  and  adopted  the  black  raiment  of 
the  'Abbasids  ;  but  afterwards  apostatised  and  was  slain.  This 
account,  which  rests  on  the  authority  of  Ibrdhim  b.  al-'Abbas 
as-Sulf  (t  A.D.  857-8),  adds  that  "there  are  to  this  day  in 
Khurasdn  a  number  of  people  who  hold  his  doctrine."  The 
sect  is  also  mentioned,  with  the  alternative  name  of  Saysdniyya, 
by  Shahristanf  (p.  187),  who  describes  them  as  "  the  most  hostile 
of  God's  creatures  to  the  Zamzamf  Magians,"  adding  that 
"  they  recognise  the  prophetic  mission  of  Zoroaster,  and  honour 
those  kings  whom  Zoroaster  honours." 

The  meagre  information  which  we  possess  concerning  Bih- 
afarfdh   does  not  permit  us  to   form   a   clear   idea   as  to   the 
essential  nature  of  his  doctrine,  of  which  the  two 
^doctrine*5     most  important  features,  perhaps,  are  the  promi- 
nence accorded   to    the   number  seven,  and   the 
belief  in  the  "  occultation  "  and  "  return  "  of  the  founder.    Of 
the  importance  attached  to  certain  numbers  (7,  12,  19,  &c.) 
by  various  sects  deriving  from  the  extreme  Shfites  (Ghuldt}^ 
and  of  the  persistent  recurrence  of  the  belief  in  the  "  Return  " 
(rtfat]    of    their    heroes,    we    shall    come   across   numerous 
examples  from  this  epoch  down  to  our  own  days.     Concerning 
these  Ghuldt  or  extreme  Shi'ites  Shahristanf  says  (p.  132)  : — 

"  They  are  such  as  hold  extreme  views  (ghalaw)  in  respect  to  their 

Imams,  so  that  they  raise  them  above  the  limits  of  created  beings, 

and  ascribe  to  them  Divine  virtues,  so  that  often  they 

Jtreme  Sh/'ites  liken  one  of  the  Imams  to  God>  and  often  they  liken 

God  to  mankind,  thus  falling  into  the  two  extremes  of 

excess    (ghuluivu>)    and    defect    (taqsir).     These    anthropomorphic 

tendencies  of  theirs  are  derived  from  the  sects  of  the  Hululiyya 


as  to  his  "  Return"  in  the  section  devoted  to  him  a  few  pages  further  on. 
Al-Balkhi,  writing  about  A.H.  350  (A.D.  960),  speaks  of  the  Bih-afaridhis  as 
existing  in  his  time  from  personal  knowledge.  See  vol.  i  of  Cl.  Huart's 
ed,  and  transl.  of  the  Kitdbiil-  Bad'  wa't-Ta'rikh,  p.  164  of  the  translation, 


THE   ULTRA-SHf'ITES  311 

[who  believe  that  the  Deity  can  pass  into  a  human  form],  the 
Tandsukhiyya  [who  hold  the  doctrine  of  Metempsychosis],  the  Jews, 
and  the  Christians.  For  the  Jews  liken  the  Creator  to  the  creature, 
while  the  Christians  liken  the  creature  to  the  Creator.  And  these 
anthropomorphic  tendencies  have  so  infected  the  minds  of  these 
ultra-Shi'ites  that  they  ascribe  Divine  virtues  to  some  of  their 
Imams.  This  anthropomorphism  belongs  primarily  and  essentially 
to  the  Shi'a,  and  only  subsequently  was  adopted  by  certain  of  the 
Sunnis.  .  .  .  The  heretical  doctrines  of  the  ultra-Shi'ites  are  four  : — 
Anthropomorphism  (tashbih),  change  of  [Divine]  Purpose  (bada), 
return  [of  the  Imam ;  rij'at],  and  Metempsychosis  (tandsukh).  In 
every  land  they  bear  different  names;  in  Isfahan  they  are  called 
Khurramiyya  and  Ki'idiyya,  in  Ray  Mazdakiyya  and  Sinbddiyya,  in 
Adharbayjan  Dhaqriliyya,  in  some  places  Muhammira  (wearing  red 
as  their  badge),  and  ill  Transoxiana  Mubayyida  (wearing  white  as 
their  badge)." 

These  ultra-Shi'ite  sects,  then,  which  we  have  now  to  con- 
sider, and  which,  under  the  leadership  of  Sinbadh  the  Magian, 
al-Muqanna*  "  the  Veiled  Prophet  of  Khurasan,"  Babalc,  and 
others,  caused  such  commotion  in  Persia  during  this  period, 
do  but  reassert,  like  the  later  Isma'ilis,  Batinis,  Carmathians, 
Assassins,  and  Hurufis,  the  same  essential  doctrines  of  Anthro- 
pomorphism, Incarnation,  Re-incarnation  or  "  Return,"  and 
Metempsychosis ;  which  doctrines  appear  to  be  endemic  in 
Persia,  and  always  ready  to  become  epidemic  under  a  suitable 
stimulus.  In  our  own  days  they  appeared  again  in  the 
Babi  movement,  of  which,  especially  in  its  earlier  form 
(A.D.  1844-1852),  they  constituted  the  essential  kernel; 
though  in  later  time,  under  the  guidance  of  Baha'u'lldh 
(t  A.D.  1892)  and  now  of  his  son  'Abbas  Efcndi  "the  Most 
Great  Branch"  (who  appears  to  be  regarded  by  his  followers 
as  a  "  Return  "  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  is  so  considered  by  the 
now  fairly  numerous  adherents  of  this  doctrine  in  America), 
they  have  been  relegated  to  a  subordinate,  or  at  least  a  less 
conspicuous,  position.  The  resemblance  <•  between  these 
numerous  sects,  whose  history  can  be  clearly  traced  through 
the  last  eleven  centuries  and  a  half,  is  most  remarkable,  and 


312     THE    GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

extends  even  to  minute  details  of  terminology,  and  to  the 
choice  of  particular  colours  (especially  red  and  white)  as 
badges.  Thus  the  early  Babis,  like  the  Mubayyida  of  the 
period  now  under  discussion,  wore  white  apparel,1  while  they 
imitated  the  Muhammira  in  their  fondness  for  red  by  their 
choice  of  ink  of  that  colour  in  transcribing  their  books.  An 
interesting  question,  for  the  final  solution  of  which  material  is 
still  wanting,  is  the  extent  to  which  these  ideas  prevailed  in 
other  forms  in  pre-Muhammadan  Persia.  The  various  ultra- 
Shi'ite  risings  of  which  we  shall  have  to  speak  are  commonly 
regarded,  alike  by  the  oldest  and  the  most  modern  Muham- 
madan  historians,  as  recrudescences  of  the  doctrines  of  Mazdak, 
of  whom  we  have  already  spoken  in  the  chapter  on  the 
Sasanians  (pp.  168-172  supra).  This  is  probable  enough,  but 
unfortunately  our  knowledge  of  the  principles  on  which  the 
system  of  Mazdak  reposed  is  too  meagre  to  enable  us  to  prove 
it.  It  is,  however,  the  view  of  well-informed  writers  like  the 
author  of  the  Flhrist  (pp.  342-345),  who  wrote  in  A.D.  987  ; 
Shahristani  (pp.  193-194),  who  wrote  in  A.D.  1127;  the 
celebrated  minister  of  the  Seljuqs,  Nidhamu'1-Mulk  (Siyasat- 
ndma,  ed.  Schefer,  pp.  182-183),  who  was  assassinated  in 
A.D.  1092  by  an  emissary  of  those  very  Isma'ilis  whom  he  so 
fiercely  denounced  in  his  book  as  the  renovators  of  the  heresy 
of  Mazdak,  and  others  ;  while  the  modern  Babis  have  been 
similarly  affiliated  both  by  the  historians  Lhanul-Mulk  and 
Ridd-quli  KMn  in  Persia,  and  by  Lady  Sheil 2  and  Professor 
Noldeke  3  in  Europe.  In  the  Flhrist  the  section  dealing  with 
the  movements  of  which  we  are  about  to  speak  is  entitled 
(p.  342)  "  the  Sect  of  the  Khurramiyya  and  Mazdakiyya," 
these  being  regarded  as  identical  with  one  another,  and  with 
the  Muhammira  ("  those  who  made  red  their  badge "),  the 

1  See  my  translation  of  the  New  History  of .  .  .  the  Bdb  (Cambridge, 
1893),  pp.  70,  283. 

*  Glimpses  of  Life  and  Manners  in  Persia  (1856),  p.  180. 

3  In  an  article  entitled  Oricntalischer  Socialismus,  in  vol.  xviii,  pp.  284- 
291  of  the  Deutsche  Rundschau  (1879). 


SINBADH  "THE  MAGI  AN"  313 

followers  of  Bibak  "  al-Khurrami,"  and,  apparently,  the 
Mudlmiyya^  or  sects  who  believed  that  Abu  Muslim  was  the 
Imam,  or  even  an  incarnation  of  the  Deity,  amongst  whom 
Sinbadh  the  Magian  and  Ishdq  "  the  Turk  "  (so  called,  we  are 
told,  not  because  he  was  of  Turkish  race,  but  because  "  he 
entered  the  lands  of  the  Turks  and  summoned  them  to  believe 
in  the  Apostolic  Mission  of  Abu  Muslim ")  are  included. 
Similarly  of  al-Muqanna'  al-Birum  says  (op.  laud.,  p.  194)  that 
"he  made  obligatory  for  them  (/'.*.,  his  followers)  all  the  laws 
and  institutes  which  Mazhdak  had  established,"  while 
Shahristani,  as  we  have  already  seen,  regards  the  terms 
Mazdaki,  Sinbddi,  Khurrarm,  Mubayyida,  and  Muhammira  as 
synonymous.  The  Nidhamu'1-Mulk,  in  chap,  xlv  of  his 
Siyasat-nAma  (ed.  Schefer,  pp.  182-183,  French  translation, 
pp.  265-268  *)  is  more  explicit.  According  to  him,  after 
Mazdak's  execution  his  wife,  named  Khurrama,  fled  from 
Ctesiphon  to  Ray  with  two  of  her  husband's  adherents,  and 
continued  to  carry  on  a  successful  propaganda  in  that  province. 
The  converts  to  her  doctrine  were  called  either  Mazdakites 
(after  her  husband)  or  Khurramites  (Khurram-dinan  or 
Khurramiyya]  after  her.  The  sect  continued  to  flourish  in 
Azarbayjan,  Armenia,  Daylam,  Hamaddn,  Dinawar,  Isfahdn, 
and  Ahwdz — in  other  words,  throughout  the  north  and  west  of 
Persia  (Fihrist,  p.  342) — until  the  days  of  Abu  Muslim,  and 
was  amongst  the  disaffected  elements  whose  support  and 
sympathy  he  succeeded  in  enlisting  in  his  successful  attempt  to 
overthrow  the  Umayyad  Caliphate.  I 

To    the    reverence   and    even   adoration   with   which  Abu 
Muslim  was  regarded  by  his  followers  we  have 
sinbbeldhnthe      alfeady   alluded  (p.  243  supra],  and    his  murder 
AD^s's^se)     by   the    Caliph    al-Mansur    was    almost    imme- 
diately  followed  by  the  rebellion  of  Sinbddh  the 

1  From  chap,  xl  of  this  work  onwards  the  numbers  of  the  chapters  in 
the  translation  are  one  ahead  of  those  they  bear  in  the  text,  two  successive 
sections  in  the  text  (pp.  125  and  131)  being  called  "fortieth," 


314     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

Magian,1  who  had  been  Abu  Muslim's  friend  and  partisan — a 
significant  fact,  as  showing  that  the  great  propagandist's  religious 
views  were  not  sufficiently  intolerant  to  alienate  from  his  cause 
even  "guebres."  Starting  from  Nishapur,  his  native  place, 
with  the  avowed  intention  of  avenging  Abu  Muslim,  he  soon 
collected  a  numerous  following,  occupied  Qumis  'and  Ray 
(where  he  took  possession  of  the  treasures  which  Abu  Muslim 
had  deposited  in  that  city),  and  declared  his  intention  of 
advancing  on  the  Arabian  province  of  the  Hijaz  and  destroying 
the  Ka'ba.  He  soon  attracted  to  him  hosts  of  Magians  from 
Tabaristan  and  elsewhere,  Mazdakites,  Rafidis  (Shi'ites),  and 
"  Anthropomorphists  "  (Mushabbiha],  whom  he  told  that  Abu 
Muslim  was  not  dead,  but  that,  being  threatened  with  death  by 
al-Mansur,  he  had  recited  the  "  Most  Great  Name  "  of  God, 
and  turned  himself  into  a  white  dove,2  which  flew  away. 
His  armed  followers  are  said  to  have  numbered  some  100,000 
men,  and  if,  as  stated  by  al-Fakhri,  60,000  of  these  were  left 
dead  on  the  field  when  he  was  finally,  after  many  successes, 
defeated  and  slain  by  the  'Abbasid  general  Jahwar  b.  Marrar, 
this  can  be  no  exaggeration.  This  insurrection,  though 
formidable,  was  short-lived,  only  lasting  seventy  days,  according 
to  the  most  trustworthy  accounts,  though  the  Nidhamu'1-Mulk 
says  seven  years,  which  is  certainly  an  error. 

Ishdq  "  the  Turk,"  whom  we  have  already  mentioned,  was 

another  of  Abu  Muslim's  da1  is  or  propagandists,  who,  on  the 

death  of  his  master,  fled  into  Transoxiana,   and 

Is&k."he  taught  that  Abu  Muslim  was  not  dead,  but  con- 
cealed in  the  mountains  near  Ray,  whence  he 
would  issue  forth  in  the  fulness  of  time.  According  to  the 

1  Some  account  of  this  is  found  in  al-Fakhn  (p.  203) ;  Tabari  iii,  119-120  ; 
Mas'udi's  Muruju'dh  Dhahab,  vi,  188-189  ;  al-Ya'qubi,  ii,  441-442  ;  Idem, 
Kitabu'l-Bitlddn  (de  Goejc's  Bibl.  Gcogr.  Arab.,  vol.  vii),  p.  303  ;  Dorn's 
Gesch.  von  Tabaristan,  &c.,  p.  47  ;  Idem,  Auszuge  .  .  .  betreffend  die 
Gesch.  .  .  .  der  Sudl.  Kilstenlilnder  des  Kaspischen  Mccres,  pr>.  442-444 
Justi's  Iranisches  Xaineiibuch,  pp.  314-315,  article  Sninbdt  (Sitnfudh),  §  19. 

*  Cf.  Shahristani,  op.  cit.,  p.  in,  and  al-Ya'qubi,  ii,  p.  313. 


THE  RAWANDIYYA  315 

Fihnst  (p.  345)  he  was  a  descendant  of  Zayd  the  'Alid,  and 
therefore  presumably  claimed  himself  to  be  the  Imam,  though 
he  took  advantage  of  Abu  Muslim's  popularity  to  recommend 
himself  to  his  followers  ;  but  according  to  another  authority 
cited  in  the  same  work  as  "  well  informed  as  to  the  affairs  of 
the  Muslimiyya,"  he  was  a  common  and  illiterate  man  of 
Transoxiana  who  had  a  familiar  spirit  which  he  used  to  consult, 
and  who  declared  that  Abu  Muslim  was  a  prophet  sent  by 
Zoroaster,  and  that  Zoroaster  was  alive  and  had  never  died, 
but  would  reappear  in  due  season  to  restore  his  religion. 
"Al-Balkhi,"  adds  our  author,  "and  some  others  call  the 
Muslimiyya  (or  followers  of  Abu  Muslim)  Khurram-diniyya"  ; 
"and,"  adds  he,  "  there  are  amongst  us  in  Balkh  a  number  of 
them  at  a  village  called  .  .  .  ,T  but  they  conceal  themselves.'* 
The  next  manifestation  of  these  anthropomorphic  ultra- 
The  Shi'ites  took  place  a  year  or  two  later  (A.D. 
Rawandiyya.  758-9 ),2  and  is  thus  described  by  Dozy  3  :_ 

"Still  more  foolish  were  those  fanatics  who,  inspired  by  Indo- 
Persian  ideas,  named  their  prince  '  God.'  So  long  as  the  victory 
remained  doubtful  the  'Abbasids  had  been  able  to  tolerate  this 
species  of  cult,  but  since  they  had  gained  the  mastery  they  could  do 
so  no  longer,  for  they  would  have  aroused  against  themselves  not 
only  the  orthodox  but  the  whole  Arab  race.  On  the  other  hand 
they  alienated  the  sympathy  of  the  Persians  by  refusing  to  be  God 
for  them ;  but  they  had  to  choose,  and  the  poor  Persians,  who  all 
the  while  meant  so  well,  were  sacrificed  to  the  Arabs.  The 
Rawandis  (of  Rawand  near  Isfahan  4)  learned  this  to  their  cost  when 


1  Name  uncertain  ;  perhaps  Khtirramdbdd,  a  common  name  of  Persian 
villages. 

3  Tabari  (iii,  129  el  scqq.  and  418)  mentions  the  incident  first  recorded 
under  the  year  A.H.  141  (A.D.  758-9),  but  adds  that  some  place  it  in  A.H.  136 
or  137  (A.D.  753-5),  while  he  records  a  similar  narrative  under  A.H.  158 
(A.D.  774-5).  The  last  two  dates  are  those  of  the  accession  and  decease  of 
al-Mansiir,  and  the  narrative  may  simply  have  been  recorded  there  by  one 
of  his  authorities  as  a  piece  of  undated  general  information  about  that 
Caliph.  See  also  Dinawari,  p.  380,  and  al-Fakhri,  p  188. 

3  L'lslamisme  (transl.  of  V.  Chauvin),  pp.  241-243. 

4  There  were  two  places  called  Rawand,  one  near  Kashan  and  Isfahan, 


3i6     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESTARCHS 

they  came  to  present  their  homage  to  al-Mansur  ;  they  called  him 
their  God,  and  believed  that  they  saw  in  the  governor  of  Mecca  the 
Angel  Gabriel,  and  in  the  captain  of  the  bodyguards  him  into 
whom  the  soul  of  Adam  had  migrated.1  Not  only  was  their 
homage  rejected,  but  their  chiefs  were  cast  into  prison.2  From 
this  moment  al-Mansur  ceased  in  the  eyes  of  the  Rawandis  to  be 
Caliph.  The  ideas  of  legitimate  prince  and  of  God  were  for  them 
two  inseparable  things,  and  if  the  sovereign  declared  himself  not  to 
be  God,  he  could  be  nothing  but  a  usurper,  and  ought  to  be  deposed. 
This  project  they  immediately  prepared  to  carry  out.  They  pro- 
ceeded to  the  prison,  but  to  avoid  exciting  attention  they  took  with 
them  an  empty  bier,  which  they  caused  to  be  carried  before  them, 
as  though  they  were  about  to  bury  some  one.  On  arriving  at  the 
prison  they  broke  down  its  doors,  released  their  chiefs,  and  then 
attacked  the  Caliph's  palace.  There  was  an  extremely  critical 
moment,  but  at  length  troops  hastened  up  in  sufficient  numbers, 
and  the  Rawandis  fell  beneath  the  blows  of  their  swords.  None 
the  less  there  were  thousands  of  people  in  Persia  who  thought  a'j 
they  did,  and  for  whom  the  'Abbasids  were  no  longer  Caliphs  since 
they  had  refused  to  be  God.  Hence  the  reason  why  such  as  had 
fewer  scruples  in  this  matter  found  in  this  country  a  soil  wherein 
the  seed  of  revolt  bore  fruit  with  vigour." 

The  total  number  of  these  Rawandis  who  walked  round  the 
Caliph's  palace  at  Hashimiyya  (for  Baghdad  was  not  yet  built) 

crying,  "  This  is  the  Palace  of  our  Lord  !  "  was 
D°Rlwandis.the  Onl7  about  six  hundred,3  yet  the  sect,  as  Tabari 

tells  us  (Hi,  418),  continued  to  exist  till  his  own 
time — that  is,  until  the  beginning  of  the  tenth  century.  Besides 
the  doctrines  of  Incarnation  and  Metempsychosis,  they  seem 
to  have  held  Mazdak's  views  as  to  the  community  of  wives, 
and  to  have  believed  themselves  to  be  possessed  of  miraculous 
powers.  .  Some  of  them,  we  learn,  cast  themselves  from  high 

the  other  near  Nishapiir  (see  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan's 
Biographical  Dictionary,  vol.  i,  p.  77).  Dozy  seems  to  be  mistaken  in  sup- 
posing that  the  former  is  here  meant,  since  Tabari  (iii,  129),  al-Fakhri  (188), 
&c.,  speak  of  these  Rawandis  as  "  from  Khurasan." 

1  Al-Fakhri  only  says  "  a  certain  other  man."  Tabari  (iii,  129)  says  that 
they  supposed  'Uthman  b.  Nahik  and  al-Haytham  b.  Mu'awiya  to  be 
incarnations  of  Adam  and  Gabriel  respectively. 

*  Two  hundred  of  them  were  so  imprisoned.  3  Tabari,  iii,  p.  130. 


USTADHS/3 

places,  believing  that  they  could  fly,  and  were  dashed  to  pieces. 
They  were  certainly,  as  Dinawari  says  (p.  380),  connected 
with  Abu  Muslim,  whose  death  it  was  one  of  their  objects  to 
avenge.  The  peril  in  which  for  a  short  while  the  life  of  the 
Caliph  al-Mansur  was  placed  for  lack  of  a  good  horse  led  to 

the  institution    of   the  farasun-nawba    (Persian, 
™enfwrbaasu n"    asp-i-nawbati)   or    "sentry-horse,"  a  good   horse, 

saddled,  bridled,  and  equipped,  which  was  hence- 
forth always  in  readiness  at  the  Caliph's  palace  in  case  of 
emergency.  The  same  institution  prevailed  till  much  later 
times  at  the  Courts  of  local  rulers — e.g.,  with  the  Sdmdnid 
kings  in  the  tenth  century  of  our  era.1 

In  the  years  A.D.  766-768,  still  in  the  reign  of  al-Mansur, 
another  Persian  pseudo-prophet  named  Ustadhsis,  rose  in  revolt 

in  the  districts  of  Herdt,  Badghis,  and  Sistdn,3 
C-*jS5^*Jfc  col^cted  a  following  of  300,000  men,  and  caused 

much  trouble  to  the  Government  ere  he  was 
finally  defeated  by  Khazim  b.  Khuzayma.  Seventy  thousand 
of  his  followers  were  slain,  and  fourteen  thousand  more,  taken 
captive,  were  beheaded  immediately  after  the  battle.  Ustddhsis 
shortly  afterwards  surrendered,  was  sent  in  chains  to  Baghdad, 
and  was  there  put  to  death.  Thirty  thousand  of  his  followers 
who  surrendered  with  him  were  set  at  liberty.  Al-Khayzurdn, 
the  wife  of  al-Mahdi  and  mother  of  al-Hadi  and  Harunu'r- 
Rashid,  was,  according  to  Sir  William  Muir  (who,  however, 
does  not  give  his  authority),  the  daughter  of  Ustadhsis.  3  She 
is  mentioned  by  ath-Tha'alibi  in  his  Lataiful-Mcf&rif  (ed.  de 
Jong,  p.  54)  as  one  of  the  three  women  who  gave  birth  to  two 
Caliphs.  One  of  the  two  others  was  likewise  a  Persian, 
namely,  Shah-Parand,  the  grand-daughter  of  Yazdigird  the 
last  Sasanian  king,  who  was  married  to  Walid  b.  'Abdu'l- 

'  C/.  my  translation  of  the  Chahdr  Mdqdla  of  Nidhami-i-'Arudi-i-Samar- 
qandi  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  1899,  p.  55  of  the  tirage-b-part. 

'  Taban,  iii,  354-8  ;  al-Ya'qubi,  ii,  457-8.  The  latter  writer  distinctly 
states  that  he  claimed  to  be  a  Prophet.  3  Op,  cit.,  p.  459. 


318     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

Malik,  the  Umayyad   Caliph,  and  bore    him  Yazid   III  and 

Ibrahim. 

About  ten  years  later  (A.D.  777-780),  at  the  beginning  of  the 

reign  of  al-Mahdi,  took  place  the  much  more  serious  rising  of 
al-Muqanna',  the  "Veiled  Prophet  of  Khurasan  " 
celebrated  by  Moore  in  Lalla  Rookh^  by  the  side  of 
which  the  less  known  and  more  obscure  insurrec- 
tion  of  Yusufu'l-Barm,  «  whose  object  was  naught 
else  than  to  exhort  men  to  good  and  turn  them 

aside  from  evil," J  sinks  into  insignificance.     Of  this  celebrated 

heresiarch    al-Biruni    gives    the    following    account    in    his 

Chronology   of   Ancient   Nations  (Sachau's  translation,  p.   194  ; 

text,  p.  2ii)  : — 

"  Thereupon  came  forward  Hashim  b.  Hakim,  known  by  the  name 

of  al-Muqanna',  in  Merv,  in  a  village  called  Kawakimardan.     He 

,  ,,        used  to  veil  himself  in  green  silk,  because  he  had  only 

account  of  one  eye.  He  maintained  that  he  was  God,  and  that 
ai-Muqanna'.  ng  ^a(j  incarnate(j  himself,  since  before  incarnation 
nobody  could  see  God.  He  crossed  the  river  Oxus  and  went  to  the 
districts  of  Kash  and  Nasaf  (Nakhshab).  He  entered  into  corre- 
spondence with  the  Khaqan,  and  solicited  his  help.  The  sect  of  the 
Mubayyida  "  and  the  Turks  gathered  round  him,  and  the  property 
and  women  (of  his  enemies),  he  delivered  up  to  them,  killing  every- 
body who  opposed  him.  He  made  obligatory  for  them  all  the  laws 
and  institutes  which  Mazhdak  had  established.  He  scattered  the 
armies  of  al-Mahdi,  and  ruled  during  fourteen  years,  but  finally  he 
was  besieged  and  killed  in  A.H.  169  (A.D.  785-786).  Being  surrounded 
on  all  sides  he  burned  himself,  that  his  body  might  be  annihilated, 
and  that,  in  consequence,  his  followers  might  see  therein  a  confirma- 
tion of  his  claim  to  be  God.  He  did  not,  however,  succeed  in 
annihilating  his  body  ;  it  was  found  in  the  oven,  and  his  head  was 
cut  off  and  sent  to  the  Caliph  al-Mahdi,  who  was  then  in  Aleppo. 
There  is  still  a  sect  in  Transoxiana  who  practise  his  religion,  but 
only  secretly,  while  in  public  they  profess  Islam.  The  history  of 


1  See  van  Vloten's  Recherches  surla  Domination  Arabe,  p.  59  ;  Tabarf, 
iii,  470  ;  al-Ya'qubi,  ii,  pp.  478-479. 

a  So  called,  as  already  explained,  because  of  their  white  raiment,  which 
won  for  them  amongst  the  Persians  the  title,  Sapid-Jdmagdn, 


"THE    VEILED  PROPHET"  319 

al-Muqanna'  I  have  translated  from  the  Persian  into  Arabic,  and  the 
subject  has  been  exhaustively  treated  in  my  history  of  the  Mubayyida 

and  Carmathians."  * 

r 

The  three  things  connected  with  al-Muqanna*  which  are 
best  known  and  most  widely  celebrated  are  the  mask  of  gold 
(or  veil  of  green  silk,  according  to  some  accounts)  which  he 
continually  wore,  to  spare  his  followers  the  dazzling  and 
insupportable  effulgence  of  his  countenance,  as  he  asserted,  or, 
as  his  opponents  said,  to  conceal  from  them  his  deformed  and 
hideous  aspect  ;  the  false  moon  which  he  caused,  night  after 
night,  to  rise  from  a  well  at  Nakhshab  (whence  he  is  often 
called  by  the  Persians  Mah-s&zanda^  "  the  moon-maker  ") ;  and 
the  final  suicide  of  himself  and  his  followers,  by  which,  as  it 
would  appear,  he  desired  not  only  to  avoid  falling  into  the 
hands  of  his  enemies,  but  to  make  his  partisans  believe  that  he 
had  disappeared  and  would  return  again,  with  which  object  he 
endeavoured  to  destroy  his  own  body  and  those 

Al-Qnzwini's  .  r^.r    \       r  \  \    /-^.  '    ' 

account  of      of  his  companions.    Ur  the  raise  moon  al-Oazwim 

al-  M  uqanna4.  *^ 

(who  wrote  during  the  first  half  of  the  thirteenth 
century  of  our  era)  speaks  as  follows  in  his  dthanil-Bil&d  (ed. 
Wiistenfeld,  p.  312),  under  the  heading  Nakhshab  : — 

"  Nakhshab.  A  famous  city  in  the  land  of  Khurasan,  from  which 
have  arisen  many  saints  and  sages.  With  it  was  connected  al-Hakim 
al-Muqanna',2  who  made  a  well  at  Nakhshab  whence  there  rose  up 
a  moon  which  men  saw  like  the  [real]  moon.  This  thing  became 
noised  abroad  through  the  horizons,  and  people  flocked  to  Nakhshab 
to  see  it,  and  wondered  greatly  at  it.  The  common  folk  supposed  it 
to  be  magic,  but  it  was  only  effected  by  [a  knowledge  of]  mathematics 
and  the  reflection  of  the  rays  of  the  moon  ;  for  they  [afterwards] 
found  at  the  bottom  of  the  well  a  great  bowl  filled  with  quicksilver. 
Yet  withal  he  achieved  a  wonderful  success,  which  was  disseminated 


1  These  works  of  al-Biruni  are  unfortunately  lost  to  us. 

"  Ibnit'l-Muqaffa'  in  the  text  is,  of  course,  an  error  for  al-Muqanna'. 
From  al-Biruni's  account  (cited  above)  it  would  appear  that  his  own  name 
was  Hdshim,  and  his  father's  name  Hakim,  but  al-Qaxwini  seems  to  have 
taken  the  latter  as  a  common  noun  in  the  sense  of  "  The  Sage." 


$20     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

through  the  horizons  and  noised  abroad  until  men  mentioned  him 
in  their  poems  and  proverbs,  and  his  memory  abode  amongst 
mankind." 

Ibn  Khallikdn  in  his  celebrated  Biographies  (translation  of 
Baron  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  vol.  ii,  pp.  205-206)  thus  speaks 
of  him x  : — 

"  Al-Muqanna'  al-Khurasam,  whose  real  name  was  'Ata,  but  whose 
father's  name  is  unknown  to  me  (though  it  is  said  to  have  been 
Ibn  Khaiiikan's  Hakim),  began  his  life  as  a  fuller  at  Merv.  Having 

aM°untof-  ac(luired  some  knowledge  of  Magic  and  Incantations, 
he  pretended  to  be  an  Incarnation  of  the  Deity,  which 
had  passed  into  him  by  Metempsychosis,  and  he  said  to  his  partisans 
and  followers  :  '  Almighty  God  entered  into  the  figure  of  Adam  ;  for 
which  reason  He  bade  the  angels  adore  Adam,  "  and  they  adored 
Him,  except  Iblis,  who  proudly  refused,"2  whereby  he  justly  merited 
the  Divine  Wrath.  Then  from  Adam  He  passed  into  the  form  of 
Noah,  and  from  Noah  into  the  forms  of  each  of  the  prophets  and 
sages  successively,  until  He  appeared  in  the  form  of  Abu  Muslim 
al-Khurasani  (already  mentioned),  from  whom  He  passed  into  me.' 
His  pretensions  having  obtained  credence  with  some  people,  they 
adored  him  and  took  up  arms  in  his  defence,  notwithstanding  what 
they  beheld  as  to  the  extravagance  of  his  claims  and  the  hideousness 
of  his  aspect ;  for  he  was  ill-made,  one-eyed,  short  in  stature  [and  a 
stutterer],  and  never  uncovered  his  face,  but  veiled  it  with  a  mask  of 
gold,  from  which  circumstance  he  received  his  appellation  of  '  the 
Veiled  '  (al-Muqanna').  The  influence  which  he  exercised  over  the 
minds  of  his  followers  was  acquired  by  the  delusive  miracles  which 
he  wrought  in  their  sight  by  means  of  magic  and  incantations.  One 
of  the  deceptions  which  he  exhibited  to  them  was  the  image  of  a 
moon,  which  rose  so  as  to  be  visible  to  the  distance  of  a  two  months' 
journey,  after  which  it  set ;  whereby  their  belief  in  him  was  greatly 
increased.  It  is  to  this  moon  that  Abu'l-'Ala  al-Ma'arri  alludes  in  the 
following  line  : — 

"'Awake  [from  the  delusions  of  love]  !    That  full  moon  x  whose  head 

is  shrouded  in  a  veil 
Is  only  a  snare  and  a  delusion,  like  the  Moon  of  al-Muqanna'  J' 


1  For  the  text  of  this  passage,  see  Wustenfeld's  ed.,  Biography  No.  431. 
•  Qur'an  ii.  31. 


"THE    VEILED  PROPHET"  321 

"This  verse  forms  part  of  a  long  qasida.  To  it  also  alludes  Abu'l- 
Qasim  Hibatu'llah  b.  Sina'u'1-Mulk  (a  poet  of  whom  we  shall 
speak  presently)  in  the  course  of  a  qasida  wherein  he  says  : — 

"'Beware!  For  the  Moon  of  al-Muqanna'  does  not  rise 
More  fraught  with  magic  than  my  turbaned  moon  ! '  * 

"  When  the  doings  of  al-Muqanna'  became  notorious,  and  his  fame 
was  spread  abroad,  the  people  rose  up  against  him  and  attacked  him 
in  his  castle  wherein  he  had  taken  refuge,  and  besieged  him  there. 
Perceiving  that  death  was  inevitable,  he  assembled  his  women  and 
gave  them  a  poisoned  drink,  whereby  they  died  ;  after  which  he 
swallowed  a  draught  of  the  same  liquor  and  expired.  On  entering 
the  castle,  the  Muslims  put  all  his  partisans  and  followers  to  the 
sword.  This  happened  in  the  year  A.H.  163  (A.D.  779-780) :  may 
God's  curse  rest  upon  him,  and  with  God  do  we  take  refuge  from 
such  deceptions  ! — I  never  found  the  name  or  the  situation  of  this 
castle  mentioned  by  any  person,  that  I  might  record  it,  until  at  last 
I  read  it  in  the  Kitdbu'sh-Shubuhdt  of  Yaqutu'l-Hamawi  (who  will  be 
mentioned  presently,  if  God  please),  which  he  wrote  to  differentiate 
those  places  which  participate  in  the  same  name.2  He  there  says, 
in  the  section  devoted  to  Sandm,  that  there  are  four  places  of  this 
name,  whereof  the  fourth  is  the  Castle  of  Sanam  constructed  by 
al-Muqanna'  the  Kharijite  [i.e.,  the  heretic  rebel]  in  Transoxiana. 
God  knows  best,  but  it  would  appear  that  this  is  the  castle  in 
question. — I  have  since  found  in  the  History  of  Khurasan  that  it  is 
the  very  one,  and  that  it  is  situated  in  the  district  of  Kashsh  ;  3  but 
God  knows  best !  " 

Ibnu'l-Athir  in  his  great  chronicle  (Cairo  od.,  vol.  vi,  pp. 

13-14  and  17—18,  under  the  years  A.H.  159  and  161)  confirms 

* 

1  I.e.,  the  beautiful  face,  surmounted  by  a  turban,  of  my  beloved. 

2  This    work,  properly  entitled    Kitdbu'l-Mushtarik,  or    "  Lexicon    of 
geographical  homonyms,"  was  published  by  Wiistenfeld  at  Gottingen  in 
1846.    The  passage  to  which  allusion  is  here  made  occurs  on  p.  254. 
Shaykh  Shihabu  'd  Din  Abu  'Abdi'llah  Ydqut  al-Hamawi,  the  last  great 
Muslim  geographer,  was  of  Greek  origin.     He  was  born  about  A.D.  1178, 
and  died  about  1229. 

3  This    is    confirmed     by    al-Ya'qubi    in    his    Kitdbu'l-Bulddn    (Bibl. 
Geogr.  Arab.,  vol.  vii,  p.  304).     It  is  there  stated  that  al-Muqanna'  and 
his  followers,  when  hard  pressed  by  the  besiegers,  "  drank  poison,  and  ajl 
died  together."     See  also  Tabari,  iii,  484  and  494. 

22 


322     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

most  of  the  above  particulars.     According  to  him  al-Muqanna* 

was  named  Hakim,  and  only  made  known  his  pretensions  to 

be  a  Divine  Incarnation  to  a  select  circle  of  his 

ibnui-Athir's     followers,  declaring  that   from  Abu   Muslim  the 

narrative.  *  o 

Divinity  had  passed  into  Hashim,  by  which  name 
he  intended  himself,  so  that  the  war-cry  of  his  followers  was, 
"O  Hashim,  help  us!"  ("  Ya  Hashim,  alin-n&  /").  He  was 
supported  by  the  Mubayyida,  or  "  White-clad  "  heretics,  in 
Sughd  and  Bukhara,  and  also  by  many  of  the  pagan  Turks. 
He  held  Abu  Muslim  to  be  superior  to  the  Prophet,  and  one  of 
his  avowed  objects  was  to  avenge  the  death  of  Yahyd  b.  Zayd, 
a  great-grandson  of  al-Husayn,  who  was  killed  in  A.D.  742-3 
The  number  of  his  followers  who  deserted  him  at  the  last,  on 
a  promise  of  quarter  from  Sa'id  al-Harashi,  the  general  in 
command  of  the  beleaguering  forces,  is  stated  at  30,000,  while 
those  who  remained  with  him  were  about  2,000. 

"  When  he  saw  that  death  was  inevitable,"  says  Ibnu'l-Athir  (who 
is  followed  by  al-Fakhri),  "  he  assembled  his  women  and  his  family, 
and  gave  them  poison  to  drink,  and  commanded  that  his  own  body 
should  be  burned  with  fire,  that  none  [of  his  enemies]  might  obtain 
possession  of  it.  Others  say  that  he  burned  all  that  was  in  his  castle, 
including  beasts  and  clothing  and  the  like,  after  which  he  said,  '  Let 
him  who  desires  to  ascend  with  me  into  heaven  cast  himself  with 
me  into  this  fire.'  So  he  cast  himself  into  it,  with  his  family,  and  his 
women,  and  his  chosen  companions,  and  they  were  burned,  so  that 
when  the  army  entered  the  Castle,  they  found  it  empty  and  void. 
This  was  one  of  the  circumstances  which  added  to  the  delusion  of 
such  as  remained  of  his  followers,  of  whom  are  they  who  are  called 
the  Mubayyida  in  Transoxiana,  save  that  they  conceal  their  belief. 
But  some  say  that  he,  too,  drank  poison  and  died,  and  that  al-Harashi 
sent  his  head  to  al-Mahdi,  and  that  it  reached  him  when  he  was  at 

Aleppo  on  one  of  his  campaigns  in  A.H.  163  ( =  A.D.  779- 
Durat£ct°f  l  6  78o)."  These  Mubayyida,  or  followers  of  al-Muqanna', 

seem  to  have  continued  to  exist  until  the  eleventh 
century.1  Abu'l-Faraj  (Bar-Hebraeus),2  who  flourished  in  the  thir- 

1  They  are  spoken  of  by  Shaykh  Abu'l-Mudhaffar  Tahir  al-Isfara'ini 
(t  A.D.  1078-9)  as  existing  in  his  time.  See  Haarbriicker's  translation 
of  Shahristani's  Kitdbu'l-Milal,  pp.  378  and  409. 

•  Beyrout  ed.  of  1890,  pp.  217-218. 


BABAK  AL-KHURRAMf  323 

teenth  century  of  our  era  (A.D.  1226-1286),  adds  that  al-Muqanna, 
......     ,  "had   promised   his  followers   that   his  spirit  would 

Additional  par- 

ticulars given  by  pass  into  the  form  of  a  grizzle-  headed  man  riding  on 
Bar-HeBraeus.  . 


horse>.  and  that  he  wouid  return  unto  them 
after  so  many  years,  and  cause  them  to  possess  the  earth." 

Our  information  as  to  the  details  of  the  doctrines  held  by 

the  heresiarchs  mentioned  above  is  lamentably  defective,  but  all 

that  we  know  confirms  the  statement  of  Shah- 

KhurramL  ristam  (already  cited)  2  as  to  the  essential  identity 
of  the  sects  which  were  called  after  Mazdalc, 
Sinbadh,  and  al-Muqanna4,  and  which  were  also  denoted  by 
the  name  Khurramiyya^  Mubayyida,  and  Muhammira.  Under 
one  of  these  names  (or  the  Persian  equivalent  of  the  last, 
Surkh  lAlam^  "  Red  Standards  ")  we  find  risings  of  these 
schismatics  chronicled  in  A.D.  778-9  (Tab.  iii,  493  ;  Din.  382  ; 
Siydsat-nAma  pp.  199-200);  in  A.D.  796-7  (Tab.  iii,  645); 
and  in  A.D.  808  (Tab.  iii,  732  ;  Din.  387).  The  next  great 
heresiarch,  however,  appeared  in  the  reign  of  al-Ma'mun. 
This  was  Babak,  called  al-Khurrami,  who  is  first  mentioned  by 
Tabari  under  the  year  A.M.  201  (A.D.  816-817),  and  who  for 
more  than  twenty  years  (till  A.D.  838)  was  the  terror  of 
Western  and  North-  Western  Persia,  defeating  in  turn  Yahya 
b.  Ma'adh,  clsa  b.  Muhammad,  Muhammad  b.  Humayd  of  Tiis, 
and  other  generals  sent  against  him,  and  was  only  at  last  con- 
quered and  captured  with  much  difficulty,  through  cunning 
stratagems,  by  the  celebrated  Afshin.  Of  these  wars  full 
accounts  are  given  by  all  the  principal  Muhammadan  historians, 
especially  Tabari  ;3  but  of  Babak's  private  life,  character  and 

f  Cj.  what  is  said  on  p.  309  supra  as  to  the  expected  return  of 
Bih-afaridh. 

a  See  Haarbriicker's  translation,  p.  200  ;  Cureton's  text,  p.  132  ;  Schefer's 
Chrestomathie  Persane,  vol  i,  p.  177  ;  the  Nidhamu'l-Mulk's  Siydsat- 
ndma  (ed.  Schefer),  p.  199. 

3  See  particularly  Tabari,  iii,  pp.  1015,  1039,  1044,  1045,  1099,  nor,  1165, 
1170-1179,  1186-1235,  and,  for  Afshin's  fall  and  death,i3o8-i3i4  ;  Dinawari, 
PP-  397-401  5  Baladhuri,  pp.  329-330  and  340  ;  Ya'qubi,  pp.  563-565.  575, 
577-579.  and  for  Afshin,  582-584  ;  the  Fihrist,  pp.  342-3-14  ;  Qazwini's 


324     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

doctrine  the  most  detailed  information  is  contained  in  the 
following  passage  of  the  Fihrist  (pp.  342-344),  the  author 
of  which  wrote  about  A.D.  987,  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  after 
Babak's  death.  After  speaking  of  the  Khurramis  and  Mazdakis, 
this  writer  passes  to  the  Babaki  Khurramis,  concerning  whom 
he  says  : — 

"Now  as  for  the  Babaki    Khurramis,  their  founder  was   Babak 

al-Khurrami,  who  used  to  say  to  such  as  he  desired  to  lead  into 

error  that  he  was  God,  and  who  introduced  into  the 

Account  of  Babak    ,,.  ,  ,  .     '  ,  .  .   , 

in  the  Fihrist.     Khurrami  sects  murder,  rapine,  wars  and  cruel  punish- 
ments, hitherto  unknown  to  them. 

"  Cause  of  the  origin  of  his  pretensions,  his  rebellion,  his  wars  and 
his  execution. 

"Says  Waqid  b.  'Amr  at-Tamimi,  who  compiled  the  history  of 
Babak :  '  His  father  was  an  oil-seller  of  al-Mada'in  (Ctesiphon) 
who  emigrated  to  the  frontiers  of  Adharbayjan  and  settled  in  a 
village  called  Bilal-abadh,  in  the  district  of  Maymadh.1  He  used  to 
carry  his  oil  in  a  vessel  on  his  back,  and  wander  through  the  villages 
in  the  district.  He  conceived  a  passion  for  a  one-eyed  woman,  who 
afterwards  became  the  mother  of  Babak,  and  with  her  he  cohabited 
for  a  long  while.  "And  while  she  and  he  were  [on  one  occasion] 
away  from  the  village,  enjoying  one  another's  company  in  a  glade, 
and  devoting  themselves  to  wine  which  they  had  with  them,  behold, 
there  came  women  from  the  village  to  draw  water  from  a  fountain 
in  that  glade,  and  they  heard  the  sound  of  a  voice  singing  in  the 
Nabathaean  tongue.  They  made  in  that  direction  and  fell  upon  the 
two  of  them.  'Abdullah  fled,  but  they  seized  Babak's  mother  by 
the  hair,  brought  her  to  the  village,  and  exposed  her  to  contumely 
there.' 

"  Says  Waqid  :  '  Then  this  oil-seller  petitioned  her  father,  and  he 
gave  her  to  him  in  marriage,  and  she  bore  him  Babak.  Then  he 


Athdru'l-Bildd,  213,  344  ;  Siyrisat-ndma,  pp.  200-203  •  Ibn  Khallikan  (de 
Slane's  translation),  vol.  iii,  p.  276  ;  Ibn  Qutayba's  KUdbu't~Ma'4nf,  p.  198  ; 
de  Goeje's  Bibl.  Geogr.  Arab,  i,  203  ;  vi,  121  ;  v,  52,  284-285,  307,  309* 
vii,  259,  272 ;  viii,  88,  170,  352-353  ;  Mas'udi's  Muruju' dh-Dhahab  (ed.  B. 
de  Meynard),  vi,  187  ;  vii,  62,  123-132,  138-139,  &c. 

1  In  the  district  of  Ardabil  and  Arrajan.     See  B.  de  Meynard's  Diet,  de 
la  Perse,  p.  557. 


BABAK  AL-KHURRAMf*  325 

went  forth  in  one  of  his  journeys  to  the  Mountain  of  Sabalan,*  where 
there  fell  upon  him  one  who  smote  him  from  behind  and  wounded 
him  so  that  he  died  after  a  little  while.  And  Babak's  mother  began 
to  act  as  a  professional  wet-nurse  for  wages  till  such  time  as  he 
re'ached  the  age  of  ten  years.  It  is  said  that  she  went  forth  one  day 
to  seek  Babak,  who  was  pasturing  the  cattle  of  a  certain  tribe,  and 
found  him  lying  naked  under  a  tree,  taking  his  noontide  sleep  ;  and 
that  she  saw  under  each  hair  on  his  breast  and  head  a  drop  of  blood. 
Then  he  woke  up  suddenly  from  his  sleep,  and  stood  erect,  and  the 
blood  which  she  had  seen  passed  away  and  she  found  it  not. 
"  Then,"  said  she,  "  I  knew  that  my  son  was  destined  for  some 
glorious  mission." ' 

"  Says  Waqid  :  '  And  again  Babak  was  with  ash-Shibl  ibnu'1-Mu- 
naqqa  al-Azdi  in  the  district  of  Sara,*  looking  after  his  cattle,  and 
from  his  hirelings  he  learned  to  play  the  drum.  Then  he  went  to 
Tabriz  in  Adharbayjan,  where  he-  was  for  about  two  years  in  the 
service  of  Muhammad  ibnu'r-Rawwad  al-Azdi.  Then  he  returned 
to  his  mother,  being  at  that  time  about  eighteen  years  of  age,  and 
abode  with  her.' 

"  Says  Waqid  b.  'Amr  :  '  Now  there  were  in  the  mountain  of 
al-Badhdh  3  and  the  hills  connected  therewith  two  men  of  the  bar- 
barians 4  holding  the  Khurrami  doctrine,  possessed  of  wealth  and 
riches,  who  disputed  as  to  which  should  hold  sway  over  the 
Khurramis  inhabiting  these  hills,  that  the  supremacy  might  belong 
exclusively  to  one  of  them.  One  was  named  Jawidan  the  son  of 
Suhrak,5  while  the  other  was  better  known  by  his  kunya  of  Abu 
'Imran ;  and  there  was  continual  war  between  them  during  the 
summer,  while  in  winter-time  the  snow  kept  them  apart  by  closing 
the  passes.  Now  Jawidan,  who  was  Babak's  master,  went  forth  from 
his  city  with  two  thousand  sheep,  which  he  intended  to  bring  into 
the  town  of  Zanjan,  one  of  the  towns  in  the  marches  of  Qazwin.  So 
he  entered  it,  sold  his  sheep,  and  turned  back  to  the  mountain  of 
al-Badhdh,  where,  being  overtaken  by  the  snow  and  the  night  in  the 
district  of  Mimad,6  he  turned  aside  to  the  village  of  Bilalabadh, 


1  A    high    mountain,  covered    with    perpetual    snow,    near    Ardabil. 
See  Diet,  de  la  Perse,  p.  300. 
a  Or  Sardw,  in  Adharbayjan.    See  Bibl.  Geogr.  Arab.,  vii,  271,  last  line. 

3  This  was,  till  the  last,  Babak's  great  and  chiefest  stronghold. 

4  Probably  Persians.    The  arrogance  of  the  Arabs  impelled  them,  like 
the  Greeks,  to  regard  all  foreigners  as  barbarous  folk. 

s  Concerning  this  name,  see  Justi's  Iranisches  Namenbuch,  p.  292. 
*  See  Barbier  de  Meynard's  Diet,  de  la  Perse,  p.  557. 


326    THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

where  he  sought  hospitality  from  the  jazir '  of  the  place,  who,  holding 
Jawidan  in  light  esteem,  passed  him  on  to  the  mother  of  Babak, 
bidding  her  entertain  him.  And  she,  by  reason  of  poverty  and 
straitened  means,  had  no  food  [to  set  before  him],  wherefore  she 
rose  up  and  kindled  a  fire,  being  unable  to  do  more  than  this  [for 
his  entertainment],  while  Babak  waited  upon  his  servants  and  beasts, 
and  tended  them,  and  gave  them  water  to  drink.  And  Jawidan  sent 
him  out  to  buy  for  him  food  and  wine  and  fodder,  and  when  he 
brought  him  these  things,  he  conversed  and  talked  with  him,  and 
found  him,  nothwithstanding  his  detestable  character,  and  though 
his  tongue  was  cramped  by  outlandish  speech,  of  good  understanding, 
and  saw  him  to  be  a  cunning  rogue.  So  he  said  to  Bibak's  mother, 
"  Oh  woman,  I  am  a  man  from  the  mountain  of  al-Badhdh,  where  I 
enjoy  consideration  and  opulence,  and  I  need  [the  services  of]  this 
thy  son,  wherefore  give  him  to  me,  that  I  may  take  him  with  me, 
and  make  him  my  agent  over  my  farms  and  estates,  and  I  will  send 
thee  his  wages,  fifty  dirhams  every  month."  She  replied,  "Thou 
seemest  well-intentioned,  and  the  signs  of  opulence  are  apparent  in 
thee,  and  my  heart  feels  confidence  in  thee  ;  take  him  with  thee, 
therefore,  when  thou  departest." 

"'  Then  Abu  'Imran  came  down  from  his  mountain  against  Jawi- 
dan, and  fought  with  him,  but  was  routed  and  slain  by  him.  And  Jawi- 
dan returned  unto  his  mountain,  bearing  a  wound  which  caused  him 
anxiety,  and  abode  in  his  house  three  days,  and  then  died.  Now  his 
wife  had  conceived  a  passion  for  Babak,  who  had  yielded  to  her 
guilty  desires,  and  so,  when  Jawidan  died,  she  said  to  him,  "  Verily 
thou  art  strong  and  cunning  ;  Jawidan  is  dead,  and  I  have  not  men- 
tioned this  to  any  one  of  his  followers.  Prepare  thyself  for  to-morrow, 
when  I  will  assemble  them  before  thee,  and  will  inform  them  that 
Jawidan  said  :  '  I  desire  to  die  this  night,  and  that  my  spirit  should 
go  forth  from  my  body,  and  enter  into  the  body  of  Bibak,  and 
associate  itself  with  his  spirit.  Verily  he  will  accomplish  for  himself 
and  for  you  a  thing  which  none  hath  heretofore  accomplished  and 
which  none  shall  hereafter  accomplish  ;  for  verily  he  shall  take  poses- 
sion  of  the  earth,  and  shall  slay  the  tyrants,  and  shall  restore  the 
Mazdakites,  and  by  him  shall  the  lowest  of  you  become  mighty,  and 
the  meanest  of  you  be  exalted.'  "  And  Babak's  ambition  was  aroused 
by  what  she  said,  and  he  rejoiced  thereat,  and  prepared  himself  to 
undertake  it. 


1  According  to  the  Muhitu'l-Mnhit  this  word  has  in  'Iraq  the  special 
signification  of  one  chosen  by  his  fellow-villagers  to  entertain  official 
guests  quartered  on  the  village. 


BABAK  AL-KHURRAMf  327 

" '  So  when  it  was  morning,  she  assembled  before  her  the  army  of 
Jawidan,  and  they  said,  "  How  is  it  that  he  doth  not  summon  us  and 
give  us  his  instructions  ? "  She  answered,  "  Naught  prevented  him 
from  so  doing  save  that  ye  were  scattered  abroad  in  your  homes  in 
the  villages,  and  that,  had  he  sent  to  assemble  you,  tidings  of  this 
would  have  been  spread  abroad  ;  wherefore  he,  fearing  the  malice 
of  the  Arabs  towards  you,  laid  upon  me  that  which  I  now  convey  to 
you,  if  ye  will  accept  it  and  act  in  accordance  with  it."  "  Tell  us," 
they  answered,  "  what  were  the  wishes  he  expressed  to  thee,  for 
verily  we  never  opposed  his  commands  during  his  life,  nor  will  we 
oppose  them  now  that  he  is  dead."  "He  said  to  me,"  she  replied, 
" '  Verily  I  shall  die  this  night,  and  my  spirit  will  go  forth  from  my 
body,  and  will  enter  into  the  body  of  this  lad,  my  servant,  and  I 
purpose  to  set  him  in  authority  over  my  followers,  wherefore,  when 
I  am  dead,  make  known  to  them  this  thing,  and  that  there  is  no  true 
religion  in  him  who  opposeth  me  herein,  or  who  chooseth  for  him- 
self the  contrary  of  what  I  have  chosen.' "  They  answered,  "  We 
accept  his  testament  to  thee  in  respect  to  this  lad." 

"  '  Then  she  called  for  a  cow,  and  commanded  that  it  should  be 
slain  and  flayed,  and  that  its  skin  should  be  spread  out,  and  on  the 
skin  she  placed  a  bowl  filled  with  wine,  and  into  it  she  broke  bread, 
which  she  placed  round  about  the  bowl.  Then  she  called  them, 
man  by  man,  and  bade  each  of  them  tread  the  skin  with  his  foot, 
and  take  a  piece  of  bread,  plunge  it  in  the  wine,  and  eat  it,  saying, 
"  I  believe  in  thee,  O  Spirit  of  Babak,  as  I  believe  in  the  spirit  of 
Jawidan  ;  "  and  that  each  should  then  take  the  hand  of  Babak,  and 
do  obeisance  before  it,  and  kiss  it.  And  they  did  so,  until  such  time 
as  food  was  made  ready  for  her  ;  then  she  brought  forth  food  and 
wine  to  them,  and  seated  Babak  on  her  •bed,  and  sat  beside  him 
publicly  before  them.  And  when  they  had  drunk  three  draughts 
each,  she  took  a  sprig  of  basil  and  offered  it  to  Babak,  and  he  took 
it  from  her  hand,  and  this  was  their  marriage.  Then  [their  followers] 
came  forth  and  did  obeisance  to  the  two  of  them,  acknowledging 
the  marriage.  .  .  .' " 

Doctrines  of     The    most    important    statements  contained    in        ^9    */Mf& 
Babak.        t^e  above  narrative  as  to  Babalc's  doctrines  are  : —       f   *** 

(1)  That    he   declared    himself  to  be  God,  or   at    least  a 
Divine  Theophany. 

(2)  That  he  declared  that  the  soul  of  his  master  Jdwfdan 
had  passed  into  him.1     He  thus  held  two  at  least,  and  probably 

1  This  is  confirmed  by  Tabari,  iii,  1015. 


328     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

three,  of  the  four  doctrines  (hulul^  or  the  passing  of  God  into 
human  form  ;  tandsukh,  or  the  passing  of  the  soul  from  one 
body  to  another  ;  and  rijlat,  or  the  return  of  a  departed  soul  in 
a  new  tabernacle  of  flesh)  regarded  by  Shahristdnf  (see  p.  311 
supra^zs  characteristic  of  all  sects  of  the  Ghuldtor  "immoderate" 
Shi'ites.  Whether  Babak  was  of  pure  Persian  extraction  is 
doubtful,  for  the  Fihrist  represents  his  father  as  singing  songs 
in  the  Nabathaean  language,  while  Dmawari  (p.  397)  expresses 
the  opinion  I  that  he  was  one  of  the  sons  of  Mutahhar  the 
son  of  Fdtima  the  daughter  of  Abu  Muslim.  The  Nidhdmu'l- 
Mulk  mentions  in  his  Siydsat-ndma  (ed.  Schefer,  p.  204)  that 
the  Khurramls  in  their  secret  gatherings  used  first  to  call  down 
blessings  on  Abu  Muslim,  the  Mahdi,  and  Ffruz,  the  son  of 
the  above-mentioned  Fdtima,  whom  they  called  "  the  Wise 
Child"  (Klidak-i-Ddnd)^  and  who  may  perhaps  be  identical 
with  Babak's  father  Mutahhar.  It  also  appears  that  Babak  in 
the  main  merely  perpetuated  doctrines  already  taught  by  his 
master  J&widdn  (whose  followers  are  called  by  Tabarl,  iii, 
1015,  al-ydwiddniyya})  only  adding  to  them,  in  the  words  of 
the  Fihrist  above  cited,  "  murder,  rapine,  wars,  and  cruel 
punishments,  hitherto  unknown  to  them."  He  certainly 
seems  to  have  been  of  a  bloodthirsty  disposition,  for  according 
to  Tabarl  (iii,  p.  1233)  he  slew  in  twenty  years  255,500 
persons,  while  Mas'udi  (Kitdbut-tanbih^  p.  353)  estimates  the 
number  of  his  victims  as  "  500,000  at  the  lowest  computation." 
As  regards  his  relation  to  the  other  sects  which  we  have 
mentioned,  he  was,  as  the  Fihrist  tells  us,  "  to  restore  the 
doctrines  of  the  Mazdakites  ;  "  and  we  find  (Siydsat-ndma, 
p.  20 1 )  one  of  his  generals  bearing  the  name  of  'AH  Mazdak. 
He  is  generally  called  at-Khurraml,  a  title  which  the  Fihrist 
also  applies  to  Jawlddn  and  his  rival  Abu  'Imrdn,  and  which, 
according  to  the  Siydsat-ndma  (p.  1 82)  was  simply  synonymous 
with  Mazdakite.  His  followers  are  commonly  spoken  of  as 

1  Babak's  pedigree  was,  however,  very  uncertain.      Cf.   Tabari,  iii, 
p,  1232. 


EXECUTION  OF  BABAK  329 

the  Khurramis,  but  sometimes  (<?.£.,  Tabari,  iii,  1235,  where 
they  are  described  as  fighting  for  Theophilus  against  the 
Muslims)  as  at-Muhammira,  "  the  Wearers  of  Red." 

It  is  unnecessary  for  our  purpose  to  recount  the  long  wars 
of  Bdbak  against  the  Muslims,  or  to  enumerate  his  many  and 

brilliant   successes.     Suffice    it  to  say  that,  after 

iHbakUand  tos    enjoying  complete  impunity  for  twenty-two  years 

'Abduitlh       (A-H-   201-222   or   223,  A.D.  816-838),  he  was 

ultimately  defeated  and  taken  captive  by  Afshm, 
sent  to  Surra-man-ra'a,  and  there  put  to  death  before  the 
Caliph  al-Mu'tasim.  His  body  was  crucified  there  on  a  spot 
called  al^Aqaba  ("  the  Hill  "),  still  famous  for  this  in  Tabari's 
time  (iii,  1231),  while  his  head  was  sent  to  Khurdsan. 
His  brother  'Abdu'llah  was  sent  in  the  custody  of  Ibn 
Sharwln  at-Tabarf  to  Baghdad,  where  he  suffered  a  like  fate. 
On  the  way  thither  the  prisoner  was  lodged  in  the  Castle  of 
Baraddn.  "  Who  art  thou  \ "  he  inquired  of  his  custodian. 
"  The  son  of  Sharwln,  Prince  of  Tabaristdn,"  replied  the  other. 
"  Praise  be  to  God  ! "  exclaimed  Bdbak's  brother,  "  that  He 
hath  vouchsafed  to  me  one  of  the  dihqdns  (Persian  landed 
gentry)  to  superintend  my  execution  !  "  Ibn  Sharwln  pointed 
to  Nudnud,  Bdbak's  executioner,  and  said,  "  It  is  he  only  who 
will  superintend  thy  execution."  "  Thou  art  my  man,"  said 
'Abdu'llah,  turning  towards  him,  "  and  this  other  is  only  a 
barbarian.  Tell  me  now,  wert  thou  bidden  to  give  me 
anything  to  eat,  or  not  I  "  "  Tell  me  what  you  would  like," 
replied  the  executioner.  "  Make  for  me,"  said  'Abdu'llah, 
" some  sweet  wheaten  porridge  (fdliidhaj}"  Having  eaten 
heartily  of  this  nocturnal  meal,  he  said,  "  O  So-and-so, 
to-morrow  thou  shalt  know  that  I  am  a  dihqdn  (i.e.,  a  Persian 
gentleman  of  the  old  stock),  if  it  please  God."  Then  he 
asked  for  some  date-wine,  which  was  also  given  to  him,  and 
which  he  drank  slowly  and  deliberately,  till  it  was  near 
morning,  when  the  journey  was  continued  to  Baghdad. 
When  they  reached  the  head  of  the  Bridge,  the  Governor, 


330    THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

Ishaq  b.  Ibrahim,  ordered  'Abdu'llah's  hands  and  feet  to  be 
cut  off,  during  which  he  uttered  no  sound  and  spoke  no  word. 
Then  he  was  crucified  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  river,  between 
the  two  bridges.  Yet  was  he  not  mocked  to  the  same  degree 
as  Babak,  who  was  brought  forth  mounted  on  an  elephant, 
clad  in  a  robe  of  brocade,  and  crowned  with  a  round  qalamuwa^ 
or  Persian  cap,  of  marten-skin. 

About   a   year   later   (September,  A.D.    840)    the    body    or 

Mdzyar,    the    rebel    prince    of    Tabaristan,   was 

Mlzyl^who^s    gibbeted  beside  that  of  Babak,  concerning  which 

«ibb|t|^eside    pitiable  spectacle  the  poet  Abu  Tammdm  (t  A.D. 

845-6)  has  the  following  verses  J  :  — 

"  The  fever  of  my  heart  was  cooled  when  Bdbak  became  the  neigh- 

bour of  Mdzydr  ; 
He  now  makes  the  second  with  him  under  the  vault  of  heaven; 

but  he  was  not  like,  '  the  second  of  two,  when   they  were 

both  in  the  Cave.'  " 
They  seem  to  stand  aside  that  they  may  conceal  some  news  from 

the  curious  inquirer. 
Their  raiment  is  black,  and  the  hands  of  the  Samitm3  might  be 

supposed  to  have  woven  for  them  a  vest  of  pitch. 
Morning  and  evening  they  ride  on  slender  steeds,  brought  out  fot 

them  from  the  stables  of  the  carpenters. 
They  stir  not  from  their  place,  and  yet  the  spectator  might  suppose 

them  to  be  always  on  a  journey." 

With  them  was  soon  associated  a  third,  no  less  than  Afshm  \ 

himself,  the  conqueror  of  Bdbak,  the  secret  abettor  of  Mazyar  I 

Execution  of     m    h's   revolt   against    'Abdu'llah   b.    Tahir,    the  •» 


Caliph's  governor  of  Khurasan.  He  too,  though 
formerly  one  of  the  Caliph's  chief  generals  and  favourite 
courtiers,  was  not  less  Persian  by  birth  and  sympathy  than  the 

1  Cited  by  Ibn  Khallikan,  ed.  Wustenfeld,  No.  709;  de  Slane's  trans., 
vol.  iii,  p.  276,  which  version  is  here  given. 

a  Allusion  is  made  to  the  prophet  and  Abu  Bakr  in  the  Cave  of  Thawr. 
See  Qur'an  ix,  40. 

3  The  burning  poisonous  wind  of  the  desert,  commonly  called  Simoom. 


THE   TRIAL   OF  AFSH/N  331 

two  others  who  bore  him  company  at  that  grim  trysting-place.1 
Of  his  trial  a  very  interesting  account  is  given  by  Tabari 
(iii,  pp.  1308-1313),  which  is  significant  as  showing  how  thin  a 
veneer  of  IslAm  sufficed  for  a  high  officer  of  the  Commander 
of  the  Faithful  (until  he  fell  into  disgrace  for  purely  political 
reasons)  at  this  period.  The  substance  of  this  narrative,  which 
is  on  the  authority  of  an  eye-witness,  H&run  b.  *Isa  h.  Mansur, 
is  as  follows  : — 

Amongst    those    present  at   the   trial   were  Ahmad  b.  Abi 

Du'ad,  Ishdq    b.  Ibrahim   b.  Mus'ab,  Muhammad   b.  'Abdu'l- 

Malik     az-Zayyat,    who    acted     as     prosecutor, 

Trial  of  Afshin.  }J  .  «v       ,  -j  „, 

Mazyar  (who  had  turned  "  King  s  evidence,  but, 
as  we  have  already  seen,  with  no  benefit  to  himself),  the 
Mubadh,  or  high-priest  of  the  Magians,  a  prince  of  Sughd,  and 
two  men  from  the  same  province  clad  in  tatters.  These  two 
last  were  first  examined.  They  uncovered  their  backs,  which 

were  seen  to  be  raw  from  scourging.     "  Knowest 

Fi^ourafi?e ofhe  t^lou    t^lese    men?"    inquired    Ibnu'z-Zayyat    ot 

icoSsm.'     Afshin.      "  Yes,"    replied    he  :    "  this   one   is   a 

muadhdhin,  and  that  one  an  im&m ;  they  built 
a  mosque  at  Ushrusna,  and  I  inflicted  on  each  of  them  a 
thousand  stripes,  because  I  had  covenanted  with  the  princes  of 
Sughd  that  I  would  leave  all  men  unmolested  in  the  religion 
which  they  professed,  and  these  two  fell  upon  a  temple  wherein 
were  idols  worshipped  by  some  of  the  people  of  Ushrusna,  cast 
them  forth,  and  made  the  place  into  a  mosque  ;  wherefore  I 
punished  each  of  them  with  a  thousand  stripes,  because  they 
had  acted  aggressively  and  hindered  the  people  in  their 
worship." 

1  See  especially,  as  illustrating  his  hatred  of  the  Arabs,  pp.  199-207  of 
the  Tdrikh-i-Bayhaqi  (Calcutta,  1862),  and  the  translation  of  this  remarkable 
passage  given  by  Kazimirski  at  pp.  149-154  of  his  edition  of  the  Diwan 
of  Mamichihri  (Paris,  1886),  and  cf.  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan, 
vol.  i,  p.  63,  and  p.  72,  n.  9,  where,  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  Shakir,  Afshin 
is  said  to  have  been  descended  from  the  old  Persian  kings,  an  assertion 
confirmed  by  Bayhaqi  (of.  cit.,  p.  203,  11.  1-2  «=  Ka/imirski,  op.  cit.t 
p.  151,  last  five  lines). 


333     THE  GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

Ibnu'z-Zayyat    then    passed    to   another   count.     "What," 

inquired  he,  "  is  a  book  in  thy  possession  which    thou   hast 

adorned  with  gold,  jewels  and  brocade,  and  which 

•.Second  charge :      ^*    -  *     "  T .        ,          .  .  ~       ^  Vv«       ,,  t      • 

the  possession  of  contains  blasphemies  against  Lrod  I  "  It  is  a 
book,"  replied  Afshin,  "  which  I  inherited  from 
my  father,  and  which  contains  some  of  the  wisdom  of  the 
Persians ;  and  as  for  its  alleged  blasphemies,  I  profit  by  its 
literary  merit  and  ignore  the  rest.  And  I  received  it  thus 
sumptuously  adorned,  nor  did  need  arise  to  compel  me  to  strip 
it  of  its  ornaments,  so  I  left  it  as  it  was,  just  as  you  have  the 
Book  of  Ka/i/a  and  Dimna  and  the  Book  of  Afazdak  *  in  your 
house,  nor  did  I  deem  this  incompatible  with  my  profession  of 
Islam." 

Then  the  Magian  priest  came  forward  and  said,  "This 
man  was  in  the  habit  of  eating  the  flesh  of  animals  killed  by 

Third  charge  •  strangulation,  and  used  to  persuade  me  to  eat  it, 
fleshofstgra°ngied  pretending  that  it  was  more  tender  than  the  flesh 
^Te^saToV116  of  beasts  slain  with  the  knife.  Moreover,  he  used 

circumcision.  everv  Wednesday  to  slay  a  black  sheep,  cutting  it 
in  two  with  his  sword,  and  then  passing  between  the  two 
pieces,  and  afterwards  eating  its  flesh.  And  one  day  he  said  to 
me,  *I  have  become  one  of  these  people  [/'.*.,  the  Arabs]  in 
everything  which  I  detest,  even  unto  the  eating  of  oil,  and 
the  riding  of  camels,  and  the  wearing  of  sandals,  but  to  this 
day  not  a  hair  hath  fallen  from  me,'  meaning  that  he  had 
never  used  depilatories,  nor  submitted  to  circumcision." 
"  Tell  me,"  said  Afshin,  "  whether  this  fellow,  who  speaketh 
in  this  fashion,  is  worthy  of  credence  in  his  religion."  Now 
the  Mubad  was  a  Magian  who  afterwards  embraced  Isldm 
in  the  reign  of  al-Mutawakkil,  one  of  whose  intimates  he 
became  ;  so  they  answered,  "  No."  "  Then,"  said  Afshin, 

1  This  book,  as  Noldeke  has  remarked  (Gesch.  d.  Sasaniden,  p.  461,  n.  2 
ad  calc.),  "  which  Ibnu'-l-Muqaffa'  translated  [into  Arabic],  and  Aban  al- 
Lahiqi  re-edited,  no  doubt  in  metrical  form  (Fihrist,  pp.  118  and  163),  was 
not  religious,  but  was  a  work  designed  merely  to  amuse,  classed  with  the 
Book  of  Kalila  and  Dimna,  and  regarded  as  harmless  for  a  Muslim." 


THE    TRIAL   OF  AFSHfN  333 

"  what  means  your  acceptance  of  the  testimony  of  one  in 
whom  you  have  no  reliance,  and  whom  you  do  not  regard  as 
trustworthy  ? "  Then  he  turned  to  the  Mubad  and  said, 
"  Was  there  a  door  or  a  window  between  my  house  and  thine 
through  which  thou  could'st  observe  me  and  have  knowledge 
of  my  doings  ?  "  "  No,"  answered  the  Mubad.  "  Was  I  not 
wont,"  continued  Afshfn,  "to  oring  thee  in  unto  myself,  and 
to  tell  thee  my  secrets,  and  to  talk  with  thee  on  Persian 
matters,  and  of  my  love  for  the  things  and  the  people  of 
Persia  ?  "  "  Yes,"  replied  the  Mubad.  "  Then,"  said  Afshfn, 
"  thou  art  neither  true  in  thy  religious  professions,  nor 
generous  in  thy  friendship,  since  thou  hast  brought  up 
against  me  in  public  matters  which  I  confided  to  thee 
in  secret." 

The  Marzubdn  of  Sughd  was  next  brought   forward,  and 
Afshfn  was  asked  if  he  knew  him,  to  which  he  replied  in  the 

negative.      Then     they    asked    the     Marzuban 

thf acting '    whether  he  knew  Afshfn,  to  which  he  answered 

people"^  divine  that  he  did,  and,  turning  to  the  accused,  cried, 

"  O  trickster,  how  long  wilt  thou  defend  thyself 
and  strive  to  gloss  over  the  truth  ? "  "  What  sayest  thou, 
O  long-beard  ?  "  answered  Afshfn.  "  How  do  thy  subjects 
write  to  thee  ?  "  continued  the  other.  "  As  they  used  to  write 
to  my  father  and  grandfather,"  replied  Afshfn.  "  Tell  us  how 
they  address  you,"  pursued  the  Marzuban.  "I  will  not,"  said 
Afshfn.  "  Do  they  not  in  their  letters  address  thee  as  So-and- 
so  and  So-and-so  in  the  language  of  Ushrusna  ? "  demanded 
the  other,  "and  does  this  not  signify  in  Arabic,  *  to  the  God  of 
gods^  from  his  servant  So-and-so  the  son  of  So-and-so  ?  '  "  Yes, 
they  do,"  answered  Afshfn.  "  Do  Muslims  suffer  themselves 
to  be  addressed  thus  ?  "  cried  Ibnu'z-Zayyat ;  "  what,  then, 
hast  thou  left  for  Pharaoh,  when  he  said  to  his  people,  *  /  am 
your  Lord  the  Supreme  ?'"*  " This,"  said  Afshfn,  "  was  the 
custom  of  the  people  in  respect  to  my  father,  my  grandfather, 
1  Qur'an,  Ixxix,  24. 


334     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

and  myself,  ere  I  adopted  Islam  j  and  I  was  unwilling  to  lower 
myself  in  their  eyes,  lest  their  allegiance  to  me  should  be 
weakened."  "  Out  upon  thee,  O  Haydar  !  "  exclaimed  Ishaq 
b.  Ibrdhim  b.  Mus'ab  ;  "  how  dost  thou  swear  to  us  by  God, 
and  we  give  thee  credence,  and  accept  thine  oath,  and  treat 
thee  as  a  Muslim,  whilst  thou  makest  such  pretensions  as 
Pharaoh  made  ?  "  "  O  Abu'l-ljtusayn  !  "  replied  Afshm,  "  this 
passage  was  cited  by  'Ujayf  against  'AH  b.  Hishdm,  and  now 
thou  citest  it  against  me !  See  who  will  cite  it  against  thee 
to-morrow  !  " 

Then  Mazyar,  the  Ispahbad  of  Tabaristdn,  was  brought 
forward,  and  Afshin  was  asked,  "  Knowest  thou  this  man  ?  " 
"  No,"  he  answered.  Then  Mdzyar  was  asked 
sSyS:ngf  whether  he  knew  Afshin,  to  which  he  replied  in 
the  affirmative.  "This,"  said  they  to  Afshfn, 
"is  Mazyar."  "Yes,"  said  Afshin,  "I  recog- 
nise him  now."  "  Hast  thou  corresponded  with 
him  ?"  they  inquired.  "No,"  said  Afshin.  "  Has  he  written 
to  you  ? "  they  demanded  of  Mazydr.  "  Yes,"  he  replied, 
"his  brother  Khash  wrote  to  my  brother  Quhydr,  saying, 
c  None  can  cause  this  Most  Luminous  Religion  *  to  prevail 
save  I,  and  thou,  and  Babak.  As  for  Babak,  he  hath  caused 
his  own  death  by  his  folly,  and,  though  I  strove  to  avert  death 
from  him,  his  own  folly  would  not  brook  intervention  until  it 
cast  him  into  the  catastrophe  which  befell  him.  If  thou  dost 
revolt,  the  people  [*.*.,  the  Arabs]  have  none  but  me  to  send 
against  thee,  and  with  me  are  the  knights,  and  the  valiant  and 
brave  ;  so  that  if  I  be  sent  against  thee,  there  remain  to  do 
battle  with  us  only  three  sorts  of  men,  the  Arabs,  the  Moors, a 
and  trie  Turks.  The  Arab  is  like  a  dog  ;  I  will  throw  him 
a  crust,  and  then  smash  his  head  with  a  mace.  And  these 

1  I  presume  that  the  religion  of  Zoroaster  is  intended,  or  else  the 
doctrine  of  Mazdak  as  revived  by  Babak. 

3  Or  Maghribis  (pi.  Maghdriba),  i.e.,  Arabs  and  Berbers  from  N.  and 
N.W.  Africa. 


THE   TRIAL   OF  AFSHiN  335 

flies  '  (meaning  the  Moors)  l  are  but  few  in  numbers  ; *  while 
as  for  these  sons  of  devils'  (meaning  the  Turks),  '  it  needs  but 
a  short  while  to  exhaust  their  arrows,  after  which  the  cavalry 
will  surround  them  in  a  single  charge  and  destroy  them  all, 
and  religion  will  return  to  what  it  ever  was  in  the  days  of  the 
Persians.' "  2 

To  this  Afshfn  replied,  "  This  man  brings  against  his 
brother  and  my  brother  charges  which  do  not  affect  me. 
And  even  had  I  written  this  letter  to  him,  that  I  might 
incline  him  to  myself,  and  that  he  might  regard  my  approach 
with  equanimity,  there  would  be  nothing  objectionable 
therein  ;  for  since  I  helped  the  Caliph  with  my  hands, 
I  had  the  better  right  to  help  him  by  my  wits,  that  I 
might  take  his  enemy  unawares  and  bring  him  before  him, 
that  I  might  thereby  be  honoured  in  my  master's  eyes  even  as 
'Abdu'llah  b.  Tahir  thus  won  honour." 

Some  further  details  of  the  trial  are  given,  especially  Afshfn's 
attempt  to  defend  himself  for  his  neglect  to  undergo  the  rite  of 
circumcision  ("wherein,"  said  Ibn  AW  Du'dd,  "is  the  whole 
of  Islam  and  of  legal  purity  "),  on  the  ground  that  he  feared 
harm  to  his  health  from  the  operation.  His  excuses  were 
scouted  :  was  it  possible  that  a  soldier,  constantly  exposed  to 
lance-thrust  and  sword-blow,  should  be  afraid  of  this  ?  Afshm 
saw  that  he  was  doomed,  and,  in  the  bitterness  of  his  heart, 
exclaimed  to  Ibn  AW  Du'ad,  "O  Abu  'Abdi'llah,  thou 
raisest  up  thy  hood  (taylasdn}  with  thy  hand,  and  dost  not 
suffer  it  to  fall  on  thy  shoulder  until  thou  hast  slain  thereby 
a  multitude."  3  "  It  hath  become  apparent  to  you,"  said 

1  Literally,  "are  eaters  of  a  head,"  meaning,  "they  are  few  ;  one  head 
satisfying  their  stomachs."  See  Lane's  Arabic  Lexicon,  Bk.  i,  Part  i,  p.  73. 

3  It  seems  quite  clear  from  all  this  that  Afshin,  though  from  Trans- 
oxiana,  was  not,  as  has  been  sometimes  alleged,  a  Turk,  but  wholly 
Persian  in  feeling  and  sympathy. 

3  Meaning  that  he  was  what  we  should  call  "  a  hanging  judge."  The 
faylasdn,  says  Lane  in  his  Lexicon  (Bk.  i,  Part  5,  p.  1867,  s.v.),  "seems  to 
have  resembled  our  academic  hood,  of  which  it  was  perhaps  the  original." 
It  was  worn  by  men  of  learning,  doctors  of  Theology,  Law,  Medicine,  and 
the  like. 


336     THE   GREAT  PERSIAN  HERESIARCHS 

Ibn  Abf  Du'ad,  addressing  the  audience,  "  what  he  is " ; 
then  to  Bugha  the  Turk  (called  "  the  Elder  "),  "  Away  with 
him  ! "  Thereupon  Bughd  seized  Afshm  by  the  girdle,  and, 
as  he  cried  out,  "  This  is  what  I  expected  from  you  !  "  cast  the 
skirt  of  his  robe  over  his  head,  and,  half  throttling  him,  dragged 
Jiim  back  to  his  prison.  The  Caliph  al-Mu'tasim,  disregarding 
his  piteous  appeal  for  clemency,  caused  him  to  be  slowly 
starved  to  death,  after  attempting,  as  it  would  appear,  to 
poison  him  in  some  fruit  which  he  sent  to  him  by  the  hand 
of  his  son  Harun,  who  afterwards  succeeded  to  the  Caliphate 
under  the  title  al-Wathiq  bi'llah. J  The  body,  crucified  for 
a  while  between  Babak  and  Mazydr,  as  already  described,  was 
afterwards  burned,  and  its  ashes  cast  into  the  Tigris.  In 
Afshm's  house  were  found,  besides  sundry  idols  set  with  jewels, 
many  books  of  the  religion  to  which  he  was  secretly  attached, 
including  a  "  Magian  book  "  called  Zardwa.  His  death  took 
place  in  June,  A.D.  841,  so  that  he  must  have  languished  in  prison 
for  nine  months  after  his  trial  and  the  execution  of  Mazyar. 

It  was  the  policy  of  the  early  'Abbasids,  and  of  al-Ma'mun  in 
particular, 2  to  exalt  the  Persians  at  the  expense  of  the  Arabs  ; 
and  in  this  chapter  we  have  examined  some  of  the  more  open 
and  undisguised  manifestations  of  the  old  Persian  racial  and 
religious  spirit — actual  attempts  to  destroy  the  supremacy  of 
the  Arabs  and  of  Islam,  and  to  restore  the  power  of  the 
ancient  rulers  and  teachers  of  Persia.  3  Such  aspirations  after 
an  irrevocable  past  may  be  said,  in  a  certain  sense,  to  have 
been  crucified  on  the  three  gibbets  at  Surra  man-ra'a  ;  and  yet 
so  strongly  did  these  Persianising  ideas,  which  they  represented 
in  their  different  ways,  continue  to  work,  that,  in  the  words  of 
Abu  Tammam  already  quoted  (p.  330  supra],  "the  spectator 
might  suppose  them  to  be  always  on  a  journey." 

1  See  the  interesting  narrative  of  Hamdun  b.  Isma'il  given  by  Tabari  (iii, 
pp.  1314-1318). 

a  His  reasons  for  mistrusting  the  Arabs  are  clearly  set  forth  in  Tabari, 
iii,  p.  1142. 

3  Cf.  Goldziher's  luminous  chapter  on  the  Shu'ubiyya,  or  "  Gentile  Fac- 
tion," in  his  Muhammedanische  Studien,  pp.  147  et  scqq.,  especially  p.  150. 


BOOK  IV 

ON  THE  FIRST  PERIOD  OF  THE  DECLINE  OF 
THE  CALIPHATE,  FROM  THE  ACCESSION 
OF  AL-MUTA  WAKKIL  TO  THE  ACCES- 
SION OF  SULTAN  MAHMUD 
OF  GHAZNA 

(A.D.  850-1000) 


CHAPTER    X 

THE  GENERAL  PHENOMENA  OF  THE  FIRST  PERIOD  OF  THE 
DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE  (A.D.  847-1000),  FROM 
THE  ACCESSION  OF  AL-MUTAWAKKIL  TO  THE  ACCESSION 
OF  MAHMUD  OF  GHAZNA. 

THE  period  which  we  have  now  to  consider  is  one  which, 
though  politically  far  less  brilliant  than  the  last,  is  in  many 
respects  quite  as  interesting.  The  sudden  rever- 
chJact'eristics.  s'on  from  the  broad  and  tolerant  spirit  of  al-Ma'mun 
and  his  successors  to  a  narrow  and  bigoted  ortho- 
doxy seems  to  have  encouraged  rather  than  repressed  the 
development  of  several  most  remarkable  religious  and  philo- 
sophical movements,  notably  amongst  the  former  the  Car- 
mathian  or  Isma'fli  propaganda  which  culminated  in  the 
establishment  of  the  Fdtimide  Anti-Caliphate  of  North  Africa 
and  Egypt,  and  amongst  the  latter  the  philosophical  fraternity 
known  as  the  Ikhw&nits  Safd  or  "  Brethren  of  Purity."  The 
growing  paralysis  of  the  Court  of  Baghdad,  primarily  caused  by 
the  ever-increasing  lawlessness  and  tyranny  of  the  Turkish 
"  Praetorian  Guard,"  wherewith,  in  an  evil  moment,  the 
Caliphs  had  surrounded  themselves,  led  directly  to  the 
formation  in  most  parts  of  the  Muhammadan  Empire, 
notably  in  Persia,  of  practically  independent  or  semi- 
independent  dynasties,  whose  courts  often  became  foci  for 
learning  and  literature,  more  apt  in  many  ways  to  discover 

339 


340         DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

and  stimulate  local  talent  than  a  distant  and  unsympathetic 
metropolis.  And  withal  the  disadvantages  of  the  greater 
decentralisation  which  characterises  later  epochs  were  not 
yet  apparent :  Arabic  still  remained  the  language  of  diplomacy, 
science,  and  culture  throughout  die  vast  domains  of  which 
Baghdad  was  still  the  intellectual,  and,  to  a  large  extent,  the 
political  centre ;  and  communications,  both  material  and 
spiritual,  were  sufficiently  unimpeded  to  allow  of  the  free 
interchange  of  ideas,  so  that  men  of  learning  passed  readily 
from  one  centre  of  culture  to  another,  and  theories  propounded 
in  Spain  and  Morocco  were  soon  discussed  in  Khurasan  and 
Transoxiana. 

From  our  special   point  of  view,  moreover,  this  period  is 

of  particular  interest,  since  it  gave  birth  to  what  we  ordinarily 

understand -by  Persian  literature,  that  is  the  post- 

iiterat°ure  d"'f  "g  Muhammadan  literature  of  Persia.  Wehave  already 

this  period.  .  1-1  /  n 

spoken  in  an  earlier  chapter  (pp.  11-18  supra] 
of  the  slender  evidences  which  can  be  adduced  of  the  existence 
of  neo-Persian  (as  opposed  to  Pahlawl)  writings  of  an  earlier 
date,  and  have  seen  that  while  it  is  likely  enough  that  occasional 
memoranda,  or  even  small  manuals,  may  have  existed  before 
the  middle  of  the  ninth  century,  it  is  very  doubtful  if  we 
possess  the  text  of  even  a  line  of  Persian  which  was  composed 
before  the  middle  of  the  ninth  century ;  since  the  Persian 
poem  alleged  by  'Awfi  to  have  been  composed  in  A.D.  809  by 
a  certain  'Abbas  of  Merv x  on  the  occasion  of  the  visit  paid 
by  al-Ma'mun  to  that  city  is,  as  Kazimirski  has  pointed  out,2 
of  very  suspicious  authenticity.  Yet  no  sooner  had  Khurasan, 
the  province  of  Persia  most  remote  from  Baghdad,  begun  to 
shake  itself  free  from  the  direct  control  of  the  Caliphs,  than 
Persian  poetry  began  to  flourish,  at  first  sporadically  under  the 

1  See  Ethe's  tract  entitled  Rtldagi's  Vorl&ufer  und  Zeitgenossen,  ein 
Beitrag  zur  Kenntnissder  altesien  Denkmttler  neupersischer  Poesie,  pp.  36-8, 
and  Horn's  Geschichte  der  pcrsischen  Litteratur  (Leipzig,  1901),  pp.  47-6. 

3  Menoutchehri,  pp.  8-9  of  the  Introduction. 


THE  PERSIAN  RENAISSANCE  341 

Tahirid  (A.D  820-872)  and  Saffarid  (A.D.  868-903)  dynasties, 
and  then  copiously  under  the  dynasty,  at  once  more  national 
than  the  former  and  more  noble  than  the  latter,  of  the 
Sdmanids  (A.D.  874-999),  while  in  the  Ghaznawf  epoch, 
which  immediately  follows  that  which  we  are  about  to  discuss, 
it  may  be  said  to  have  attained  its  full  development,  if  not  its 
zenith. 

To  this  subject  we  shall  return  in  another  chapter,  but  it 
will  be  well  first  of  all  to  treat  more  broadly  of  the  general 
history  of  this  period  of  the  Caliphate,  alike  in  its  political,  its 
religious,  and  its  literary  aspects.  We  shall  therefore  divide 
this  Book,  like  the  preceding  ones,  into  three  chapters,  in 
the  first  of  which  we  shall  endeavour  to  present  the  reader 
with  a  conspectus  of  the  whole  period  with  which  we 
are  now  dealing,  while  in  the  second  we  shall  discuss  more 
fully  certain  aspects  of  the  religious  and  philosophical  move- 
ments of  the  time,  reserving  for  the  last  an  account  of  the 
earliest  period  of  Persian  literature.  And  should  the  reader  be 
tempted  to  complain  of  so  much  space  being  still  devoted 
to  phenomena  which  centre  round  Baghdad  and  appear  more 
closely  connected  with  Arabic  than  with  Persian  literature,  he 
must  remember  that  this  is  an  essential  part  of  the  scheme  on 
which  this  history  is  constructed,  it  being  the  author's  pro- 
found conviction  that  the  study  of  Persian,  to  prove  fruitful, 
cannot  be  divorced  from  that  of  Arabic,  even  in  its  purely 
literary  aspects,  still  less  in  the  domains  of  religion  and 
philosophy  into  which  anything  beyond  the  most  superficial 
reading  of  the  belles  lettres  of  Persia  must  inevitably  lead  us. 
To  those  whose  horizon  of  Persian  literature  is  bounded  by  the 
Gulistan,  the  Bustdn^  the  Anwar-i-Suhayli^  the  Diwan  of 
Hafidh,  and  the  Quatrains  of  'Umar  Khayyam,  this  book  is 
not  addressed. 

Our  period  opens  with  the  comparatively  long  and  wholly 
deplorable  reign  of  the  Caliph  al-Mutawakkil  (A.D.  847-861), 
which  is  characterised  politically  by  the  ascendancy  of  the 


342         DECLINE   OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

Turkish  party  and  the  repression  of  the  Arabs,  and,  to  a  less 
extent,  of  the  Persians ;  and  intellectually  by  the  reaction  against 

the  liberal  Mu'tazilite  doctrines  and  philosophical 
aiCMuPuw!kkii    tendencies  of  the  previous  Caliphs,  and  a  fanatical 

hatred  of  'AH  and  his  Shila  or  faction.  The 
place  of  the  Barmecides  and  other  noble  Persians  is  taken 
by  Turkish  soldiers  of  fortune  (originally,  as  a  rule,  slaves 
captured  in  the  religious  wars  waged  on  the  frontiers  of 
Khurasan  against  heathen  Turkish  tribes),  whose  barbarous 
names  well  accord  with  their  savage  acts.  The  pages  of  the 
chronicles  are  filled  with  such  :  Boghb  ("the  Bull "),  an  older 
and  a  younger  ;  Bdghir,  Utdmhh  (who  became  Prime  Minister 
two  or  three  years  after  al-Mutawakkil's  murder),  Bdyabak^ 
Kalbatakin,  and  the  like.  The  names  of  these  Turkish  mer- 
cenaries, even  when  they  are  in  Arabic,  denote  their  origin  ; 
Wasif,  for  instance,  one  of  the  chief  regicides  who  compassed 
al-Mutawakkil's  death,  stands  revealed  by  his  name  as  originally 
a  slave.1  It  was  an  evil  day  for  the  Caliphs  when,  ceasing  to 
trust  or  sympathise  with  their  own  people,  they  surrounded 
themselves  with  these  savage  and  self-seeking  men  of  violence, 
and  transferred  their  residence  from  Baghdad  to  Surra-man-ra'a 
(or  Samarra),  which,  being  interpreted,  means  "gladdened  is 
he  who  hath  beheld  it,"  "  from  the  beauty  of  its  site,"  as  Muir 
observes,2  "or,  as  was  wittily  said,  '  Whoever  saw  it  with  the 
Turks  settled  there,  rejoiced  at  Baghdad  being  well  rid  of 
them.' "  And  though  this  had  happened  already  in  the  reign 
of  al-Mu'tasim,  the  bitter  fruits  thereof  first  matured  in  the 
days  of  al-Mutawakkil. 

The  latter,  it  is  true,  had  thought  in  the  latter  part  of  his 

reign   (A.D.  858)  of  moving  his  capital,  but  it  is 
Bigotry  of  ai-    characteristic  of  his  admiration  for  the  Umayyads 

Mutawakkil.  J  J 

and  his  anti-Shi'ite  prejudices  that  it  was 
Damascus,  not  Baghdad,  which  he  had  in  mind.  His  religious 

1  See  Dozy's  Supplement  aux  Dictionnaires  Arabes,  vol.  ii,  p.  810,  s.v. 
»  The  Caliphate,  2nd  ed.  (1892),  p.  509  ad  cole, 


BIGOTRY  OF  AL-MUTAWAKKIL         343 

bigotry,  which  was  especially  directed  against  the  Shi'a,  but 
which  also  found  its  expression  in  vexatious  enactments  directed 
against  the  Jews  and  Christians,  was,  indeed,  in  complete  keeping 
with  his  Turkish  proclivities,  and  makes  us  liken  him  rather  to 
a  gloomy  and  fanatical  Ottoman  sultan  than  to  the  heir  of 
al-Mansur  and  al-Ma'mun.  As  regards  his  attitude  towards  the 
Shi'a,  it  was  not  enough  that  he  should  on  occasions  shed  their 
blood,  as  he  did  in  the  case  of  the  tutor  of  his  sons,  Ibnu's- 
Sikkft,  the  celebrated  grammarian  r  (A.D.  857),  and,  for  more 
reason,  of  clsa  b.  Ja'far,  who  was,  by  his  command,  beaten  to 
death  in  A.D.  855  for  speaking  ill  of  Abu  Bakr, 'Umar,  'A'isha, 
and  Hafsa,  and  his  body  refused  burial  and  cast  into  the  Tigris 
"as a  warning  to  every  heretic  in  the  Faith  who  dissented  from 
the  body  of  believers " ; a  his  hatred  extended  itself  to  the 
great  Imams  of  the  Shi'a,  'All  and  al-Husayn,  whom  all  good 
Muslims,  be  they  of  the  Sunna  or  the  Shi'a,  revere.  Thus  in 
A.D.  851  he  caused  the  holy  shrine  of  Kerbela,  built  to  com- 
memorate the  martyrdom  of  al-Husayn,  to  be  destroyed,  and 
forbade  men  to  visit  the  spot,3  which  was  ploughed  over  and 
sown  with  crops  ;  and  he  suffered,  and  apparently  approved, 
a  buffoon  who,  padded  with  pillows  to  give  him  an  artificial 
paunch,  used  to  hold  up  *Ali  to  ridicule  before  him  and  his 
courtiers. 

As  regards  the  Jews  and  Christians,  many  of  whom,  as  we 

have  seen,  stood  high  in  honour  with  his  predecessors,  his  first 

enactment  against  them  was  issued  early   in  his 

Enactments  .  ,  , 

against  the  jews  reign  (A.D.  o^o),  and   the   second  three  or    four 

and  Christians.  \  ''  _ 

years   later.       1  hey  were  thereby  compelled    to 
wear     "  honey-coloured     gowns     (taylasdn\4     parti-coloured 

1  Muir,  op.  cit.,  p.  525  ;  Brockelmann,  Gesch.  d.  Arab.  Litt.,  i,  p.  117. 
3  Tabari's  Annals,  Ser.  iii,  pp.  1424-1426. 

3  Ibid.,  Ser.  iii,  p.  1407. 

4  The  dull  yellow  garments  which  the  Zoroastrinns  of  Persia  (Yazd  and 
Kirman)  are  still  compelled  to  wear  are  the  last  remnant  of  these  old 
disabilities.     Sa'di,  writing  in  the  thirteenth  century,  still  spoke  of  them  as 
"  'asal-i-diikhta,"  "  sewed  [i.e.  made  up]  honey."   See  n. 3  on  p.  335  supra.. 


344         DECLINE   OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

badges,  and  caps  and  girdles  of  certain  ignoble  patterns  ;  to 
ride  only  on  mules  and  asses,  with  wooden  stirrups  and  saddles 
of  strange  construction  ;  and  to  have  placed  over  the  doors  of 
their  houses  effigies  of  devils.  Such  of  their  churches  and 
temples  as  were  of  recent  construction  were  destroyed,  or 
converted  into  mosques  ;  their  tombs  were  to  be  level  with  the 
ground  ;  and  they  were  forbidden  to  gather  in  the  streets  or 
to  exhibit  the  sign  of  the  cross,  while  their  children  might  not 
learn  to  write  Arabic  or  receive  instruction  from  a  Muham- 
madan  tutor.1 

Ahmad    b.  Hanbal  (tA.D.  855),  the   founder  of  the   nar- 
rowest and  least  spiritual  of  the  four  orthodox  schools  of  Sunni 
doctrine,    was    now    the    dominating     religious 

Thinkers  and       •     n  ,  ,  .  .       ,         .  ,     . 

writers  of  this  influence,  and  was  able  to  pay  back  with  interest 
the  harsh  treatment  which  he  had  suffered  at  the 
hands  of  the  Mu'tazilites.  These,  needless  to  say,  fared  but 
ill  under  the  new  regime,  which  was,  indeed,  generally  un- 
favourable to  men  of  science  and  philosophers.  Thus  the 
physician  Bokht-Yishu',2  the  grandson  of  him  who  was 
Director  of  the  Hospital  and  Medical  Schoja|r^tvJunde-SMpur 
in  the  Caliphate  of  al-Mansiir,  was  deprived  ofalPTm" 
possessions  and  banished  to  Bahrayn  (A.D.  858)  for  some 
trifling  cause,  and  it  is  not  surprising  to  find  how  comparatively 
small  is  the  number  of  writers  and  scholars  of  eminence  who 
flourished  in  al-Mutawakkil's  time.  Ibn  Khurdddhbih  wrote 
the  first  edition  of  his  "Book  of  Itineraries"  (Kitdbul- 
Masalik  wa>l-Mamalik}3  about  the  beginning  of  this  period  : 
'Abdu'lldh  b.  Salldm  al-Jumahi,  the  author  of  a  Memoir  of 

1  Muir's  Caliphate,  pp.  521-2  ;  Tabari's  Annals,  Ser.  iii,  pp.  1389,  etseqq. 
and  1419. 

2  The  meaning  of  this  name  is  "  Jesus  hath  delivered  "  :  the  first  part  of 
it  is  from  an  old  Persian  verb  bokhtan,  "  to  save,"  "  deliver,"  and  has 
nothing  to  do  with  bakht,  "  fortune."    See  an  interesting  note  in  Noldeke's 
Gescli.  b.  ArtachUr-i-Papakdn,  p.  49,  n.  4,  ad  calc. 

3  Published,  with  French  translation,  in  the  Journal  Asiatique  for  1865 
(Ser.  vi,  vol.  5,  pp.  1-127  and  227-295  and  446-527),  and  in  vol.  vi  of  de 
Goeje's  Bibl,  Geogr.  Arab, 


AL-MUTAWAKKILS  SUCCESSORS       345 

the  Poets  (Tabaq^tu-sh-Shular&'}  ;  al-Waqidi's  secretary,  Ibn 
Sa'd  the  historian  ;  the  Christian  mathematician  and  man  of 
science,  Qusta  b.  Luqi ;  and  the  Syrian  Shi'ite  and  Shu'ubi 
poet,  Diku'1-Jinn,  who  flourished  about  the  same  time  or  a 
little  earlier,  have  been  already  mentioned,  as  have  the  unfor- 
tunate Ibnu's-Sikkit  and  Bokht-Yishii',  and  the  now  triumphant 
Ahmad  b.  Hanbal  (t  A.D.  855).  -  Apart  from  some  other 
writers  of  note  who  flourished  at  this  time,  but  whose  names 
will  be  recorded  according  to  the  dates  of  their  decease,  almost 
the  only  men  of  letters  who  need  be  mentioned  are  the 
physician  and  translator  from  the  Greek  Yahyd  b.  Mdsawayh 
(d.  A.D.  856),  the  historian  of  Mecca,  al-Azraqi  (t  A.D.  858), 
and  the  poet  Dilbil,  who  was  also  a  Shi'ite  (t  A.D.  860).  To 
these  might  be  added  the  Egyptian  mystic  Dhu'n-Nun  and 
his  earlier  congener  al-Muhasibi ;  the  ill-fated  poet  'AH  b. 
Jahm  as-Samf,  one  of  whose  panegyrics  on  al-Mutawakkil  is 
still  extant  ;  the  poetess  Fadl  of  Yamdma  ;  the  musician  Ishiq, 
son  of  the  celebrated  minstrel  of  Hariin's  Court,  Ibrahfm 
al-Mawsilf,  and  a  few  others. 

At  the  end  of  the  year  A.D.  86 1  al-Mutawakkil,  while 
overcome  with  drink,  was  murdered  by  his  Turkish  guards, 
who  were  instigated  thereto  by  his  son  al-Mun- 
s!  tasir  ;  but  the  parricide  did  not  survive  his 
victim  a  year.  He  and  his  three  successors, 
al-Musta'fn,  al-Mu'tazz,  and  al-Muhtadi,  reigned  in  all  only 
about  nine  years,  and  the  three  last  were  all  in  turn  done  to 
death,  generally  with  circumstances  of  great  brutality,  by  the 
Turks,  who  were  now  paramount.  Al  Muhtadf  showed  the 
greater  spirit.  "Earlier,"  says  Muir  (p.  535),  "and  supported 
by  the  Arabs,  he  might  have  restored  life  to  the  Caliphate. 
But  now,  both  as  regards  number  and  discipline,  foreigners  had 
the  upper  hand."  Yet  he  made  a  brave  attempt  to  repress  the 
growing  presumption,  arrogance,  and  violence  of  these  blood- 
thirsty mercenaries,  of  which  attempt  his  successor  at  any  rate 
reaped  the  benefit. 


346         DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

It  was  during  this  turbulent  epoch  that  Persian  indepen- 
dence may  be  said  to  have  been  revived  by  the  remarkable 

achievements  of  Ya'qub  the  son  of  Layth  "  the 
Persian indepen-  Coppersmith"  (as-Saffdr\  who,  notwithstanding 

his  humble  origin,  succeeded  in  founding  a  dynasty 
which,  though  short-lived,  made  its  power  felt  not  merely  in 
Sfstan,  the  place  of  its  origin,  but  throughout  the  greater  part 
of  Persia  and  almost  to  the  walls  of  Baghdad.  The  Tahirids 
are,  it  is  true,  generally  reckoned  an  earlier  Persian  dynasty, 
and  in  a  certain  sense  they  were  so.  Their  ancestor,  Tdhir 
"  the  Ambidexter"  (Dhul-Yaminayri),  was  rewarded  by 
al-Ma'mun  for  his  signal  services  in  the  field  with  the  govern- 
ment of  Khurasan  (A.D.  820),  and  the  continuance  of  this 
dignity  to  his  heirs  unto  the  third  generation  gave  to  the 
family  a  local  authority  and  position  which  previous  governors, 
appointed  only  for  a  term  of  years  and  removable  at  the 
Caliph's  pleasure,  had  never  enjoyed.  It  is  a  matter  of 
common  observation  that  settlers  in  a  country,  often  after  a 
comparatively  brief  residence,  outdo  those  native  to  the  soil  in 
patriotic  feeling,  a  fact  of  which  the  history  of  Ireland  in 
particular  affords  plentiful  examples  ;  for  what  proportion  of 
the  foremost  leaders  of  Irish  struggles  against  English  authority 
— the  Fitzgeralds,  Emmetts,  Wolfe  Tones,  and  Napper 
Tandys  of  the  '98 — could  claim- to  be  of  purely  Irish  ex- 
traction ?  And  so  it  would  not  be  a  surprising  phenomenon 
if  the  Tahirids,  notwithstanding  their  Arab  extraction,  had 
become  wholly  Persianised.  But  though  the  earliest  Persian 
poet,  whose  verses  have  been  preserved  to  us — Handhala  of 
Badghfs — appears  to  have  lived  more  or  less  under  their 
patronage,  it  is  doubtful  whether  they  really  sought,  as  did 
their  successors,  the  Saffarids  and  Samanids,  to  foster  the 
renaissance  of  the  Persian  language  and  literature.  Dawlatshah,1 
discussing  the  origins  of  Persian  poetry,  relates  that  on  one 
occasion  a  man  came  to  the  Court  of  'Abdu'lldh  b.  Tahir 
1  See  p.  30  of  my  edition  of  Dawlatshah. 


THE  PERSIAN  RENAISSANCE          347 

(A.D.  828-844)  at  Nishdpur  and  offered  him  an  ancient 
Persian  book.  To  his  inquiry  as  to  its  nature  the  man 
replied,  "  It  is  the  Romance  of  Wamiq  and  'Adhra?  a  pleasing 
tnle  which  was  compiled  by  wise  men  and  dedicated  to  King 
Niishirwdn."  The  Amir  replied,  "  We  are  men  who  read 
the  Our'in,  and  need  not  such  books,  but  only  the  Scripture 
and  Tradition.  This  book,  moreover,  was  composed  by 
Magians,  and  is  accursed  in  our  eyes."  He  then  ordered 
the  volume  to  be  cast  into  the  water,  and  issued  instructions 
that  wherever  in  his  territories  any  Persian  book  of  Magian 
authorship  might  be  discovered  it  should  be  destroyed. 
Without  attaching  too  much  historical  importance  to  this 
story,  we  may  yet  take  it  as  representing  more  or  less  correctly 
the  attitude  of  the  Tahirids  to  things  Persian  ;  and  an 
anecdote  related  by  Dawlatshdh  immediately  after  this,  in 
which  the  little  son  of  Yacqub  the  Coppersmith  is  represented 
as  spontaneously  producing,  in  an  access  of  childish  glee,  the 
first  rude  Persian  verse  of  Muhammadan  times,  may  at  least  be 
taken  as  indicating  a  general  conviction  that  to  the  Saffarids 
Persia  owed  in  no  small  measure  the  recovery  of  her 
national  life. 

It  was  in  the  very  year  of  al-Mutawakkil's  death  that  this 
Yacqub  first  appears  on  the  scene,  emerging  from  his  native 
Sfstan.  and  advancing  on  Herdt.1  Some  eight  years  later 
(A.D.  869)  we  find  him  in  possession  of  Kirmdn,  and  sending 
gifts  to  the  Caliph  al-Mu'tazz.  From  this  time  onwards  until 
his  death  (A.D.  876)  we  find  him  steadily  enlarging  his 
domains,  to  which  Balkh,  Tukharistan,  Sind,  Nishdpur,  part 
ot  Tabaristdn,  Pdrs,  Rdm-Hurmuz,  and  Ahwdz  were 
successively  added.  A  full  account  of  his  career,  based  on 
the  best  authorities,  has  been  given  by  Professor  Noldeke  of 
Strassburg  in  his  admirable  Sketches  from  Eastern  History 
(J.  Sutherland  Black's  translation,  pp.  176-206),  to  which 
the  reader  is  referred  for  fuller  particulars.  The  dynasty 
1  Jabari's  Annals,  Ser.  iii,  p.  1500, 


348         DECLINE  OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

founded  by  Ya'qub  practically  ceased  with  the  defeat  of  his 
brother  and  successor  'Amr  at  Balkh  by  Isma'il  b.  Ahmad  the 
Samanid  in  A.D.  900,  but  it  had  at  least  succeeded  in  reviving 
the  national  life  of  Persia,  and  in  detaching  its  history 
definitely  from  that  of  the  'Abbasid  metropolis. 

About  the  same  time  (A.D.  865)  another  province  of 
Persia,  Tabaristan,  the  strip  of  fen  and  forest  land  lying 

between  the  Elburz  Mountains  and  the  southern 
TofT^blristnanSty  shore  of  the  Caspian  Sea,  gained  a  precarious 

independence  under  a  scion  of  the  House  of  'All 
named  Hasan  b.  Zayd,  called  "the  Stone-lifter"  (jfdlibul- 
h'tj&ra)  because  of  his  great  strength.  He  was  succeeded  by 
several  other  Sayyids  of  his  house,  whose  virtues,  princely 
generosity,  charities  and  encouragement  of  learning,  form  a 
favourite-  theme  of  Ibn  Isfandiydr  *  (who  wrote  early  in  the 
thirteenth  century)  and  other  historians  of  this  province. 
Needless  to  say  that  they  were  all  ardent  supporters  of  the 
Sh{4ite  doctrine  and  cause.  Some  of  them  were  not  only 
patrons  of  letters  and  founders  of  colleges,  but  poets  as  well, 
and  Ibn  Isfandiyar  cites  in  his  work  a  number  of  Arabic  verses 
composed  by  them,  including  a  polemic  in  verse  against  the 
Sunnl  Ibn  Sukkara  by  Sayyid  Abu'l-Husayn  al-Mu'ayyad 
bi'llah.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  verses  in  the  dialect  of 
Tabaristan  (from  which  are  descended  the  modern  Mazan- 
darani  and  Gilakf  idioms)  may  also  have  been  composed  at 
this  epoch,  though  the  earliest  which  I  have  met  date  from 
the  Seljuq  period  only,  or  at  most  (e.g.,  Pindar  of  Ray,  who 
flourished  early  in  the  eleventh  century)  from  a  slightly 
earlier  epoch. 

1  This  valuable  work  exists  only  in  manuscript.  Copies  of  it  are  pre- 
served in  the  British  Museum,  the  Bodleian,  the  India  Office,  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale,  and  St.  Petersburg.  A  long  extract  from  it  relating  to 
early  Sasanian  times  was  published  with  a  French  translation  by  the  late 
Professor  James  Darmesteter  in  the  Journal  Asiatiqiie  for  1894,  pp.  185-250 
and  502-555.  The  account  of  the  poet  Firdawsi  cited  in  it  from  the  Chahdr 
Jdaydla  was  also  used  (before  the  latter  work  was  rendered  generally 


N 

349 

Persia,  then,  at  the  epoch  of  which  we  are  now  speaking, 
was  beginning  to  struggle  into  a  new  national  life,  and  to  give 
fresh  expression  to  its  marked  preference  for  the  Shi'ite 
doctrine.  For  Ya'qub  b.  Layth,  if  we  are  to  credit  the  long 
account  of  his  successful  revolt  against  the  Caliphate  (for  such, 
in  effect,  it  was)  given  by  the  Nidhamu'1-Mulk  in  his  "  Treatise 
on  the  Art  of  Government "  (Siydsat-ndmay  ed.  Schefer, 
pp.  11-17)  hac*  strong  Shf'ite  leanings  ;  though  of  course  what 
is  there  saicl  about  his  relations  with  the  Fatimid  Caliph  (who 
only  began  to  establish  his  power  some  thirty-five  years  after 
Ya'qub's  death)  is  an  absurd  anachronism.  And  in  the 
Biography  of  eminent  Shakes  lithographed  at  Tihrdn  in 
A.H.  1268  (A.D.  185 1-2)  under  the  title  of  Maj&lhii'l-Miimmln * 
("  Assemblies  of  True  Believers ")  the  Saffarids  are  included 
amongst  the  adherents  of  the  ShI'a  cause.  The  evidence  there 
adduced  for  Ya'qub's  religious  standpoint  is  rather  quaint. 
Information  was  communicated  to  him  that  a  certain  Abu 
Yiisuf  had  spoken  slightingly  of  'Uthman  b.  'AffSn  ;  and 
Ya'qiib,  thinking  that  a  Sistanf  noble  of  this  name  was 
intended,  ordered  him  to  be  punished.  But  when  he  was 
informed  that  it  was  the  third  Caliph,  the  successor  of  'Umar, 
who  had  been  thus  reviled,  he  countermanded  the  punishment 
at  once,  saying,  "I  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  'Companions.*" 
A  third  great  event  belonging  to  this  period  was  the 
formidable  rebellion  of  negro  slaves  (Zanj  =  Ethiopian) 

which  for  nearly  fourteen  years  (A.D.  869-883) 
T^beiifon.5  caused  the  utmost  alarm  and  anxiety  to  the 

metropolis  of  Isldm.  The  scene  of  this  stubborn 
and,  for  a  long  while,  successful  revolt  was  the  marshes  lying 
between  Basra  and  Wasit,  and  the  leader  of  these  African 

accessible  by  my  translation  of  it  in  the  J.  R.  A.S.  for  1899)  by  Dr.  Ethe 
and  Professor  Noldeke. 

1  The  utility  of  this  valuable  work,  written  about  A.D.  1585,  by  Sayyid 
Nuru'llah  b.  Sayyid  Sharif  al-Mar'ashi  of  Shushtar,  is,  unfortunately, 
greatly  marred  by  the  fact  that  in  the  lithographed  edition  the  pages  are 
not  numbered,  and  there  are  no  indices. 


350         DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

slaves  was  a  Persian,  'All  b.  Muhammad  of  Warzanm  (near 
Ray),  who,  though  boasting  descent  from  'All  and  Fatima, 
proclaimed  the  doctrines  not  of  the  Shi'ites  but  of  the  Kha- 
rijites.  The  explanation  of  this  curious  fact  is  given  by 
Professor  Noldeke  in  the  excellent  account  of  this  "  Servile 
War  in  the  East "  given  in  his  Sketches  from  Eastern  History 
(chap,  v,  pp.  146—175) :  the  rebel  leader  knew  his  clientele  too 
well  to  tempt  them  with  a  bait  which,  though  efficacious 
enough  with  his  own  countrymen,  would  have  entirely  failed 
to  appeal  to  minds  far  more  ready  to  absorb  the  democratic 
views  of  the  KMrijites  than  the  sentimental  legitimist  aspira- 
tions of  the  Shi'a.  And  so,  as  Noldeke  has  pointed  out 
(op.  cit.,  p.  152)— 

"  It  is  abundantly  clear  why  Karmat,  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
Karmatians,  an  extreme  Shiite  sect  which  was  destined  soon  after 
this  to  fill  the  whole  Mohammedan  world  with  fear  and  dismay, 
should,  on  religious  grounds,  have  decided  not  to  connect  himself 
with  the  negro  leader,  however  useful  this  association  might  other- 
wise  have  been  to  him." 

The  year  A.H.  260  (=A.D.  873-4)  was  in  several  respects 
an   important  epoch   in   Muhammadan,  especially   in    Shi'ite, 
history ;    but,    before    speaking   of    it,    we    may 
briefly  mention    the   chief  men   of  letters    who 
died  during  tne  decade  which  preceded  it,  which 
includes    the   first   four    years  of   al-Muctamid's 
Caliphate. 

Abu  Hdtim  of  Sajistin  (Sfstin),  who  died  about  A.D.  864, 

was  the  pupil  of  al-Asma'i  and  the  teacher  of  the  celebrated 

al-Mubarrad.     Some  thirty-two  of  his  works  are 

Ab"s"4nm°f    enumerated    in    the    Fihrist,    but    the    only   one 

preserved  to  us  in  its  entirety  (and  that  only  in 

the  unique  Cambridge  manuscript,  which  formerly  belonged  to 

the  traveller  Burckhardt)  is  the  Kit&biil-Mulammarln  ("  Book 

of  the  Long-lived  "),  published  with  introduction  and  notes  by 

the  learned  Goldziher  (Leyden,  1899). 


REIGN  OF  AL-MU'TAMID  351 

Much  more  important  was  'Amr  b.  Bahr,  surnamed  "al- 
Jdhidh "  because  of  his  prominent  eyes,  a  man  of  great 
erudition  and  remarkable  literary  activity  (tA.D. 
869).  He  was  a  staunch  adherent  of  the  Mu'tazi- 
lite  doctrine,  of  which  one  school  bears  his  name.  Of  his 
works,  which  chiefly  belong  to  the  class  of  belles  lettres 
(adab)  several  have  been  published  :  the  Kitabul-Baydn  wa't- 
tlby&n  in  Cairo;  and  the  Kitabu'l-Bukhald  ("Book  of 
Misers ")  in  Leyden  by  Van  Vloten.  He  also  wrote  a  tract 
"on  the  Virtues  of  the  Turks,"  which  exists  in  several 
manuscripts.  He  stood  in  high  favour  under  al-Ma'mun  and 
his  two  successors,  but  narrowly  escaped  death  on  the  fall  and 
execution  of  his  patron,  the  wazlr  Ibnu'z-Zayydt.  His 
writings  are  equally  remarkable  for  style  and  contents,  and 
entitle  him  to  be  placed  in  the  foremost  rank  of  early  Arabic 
prose  writers. 

A  year  later  than  al-Jdhidh  (A.D.  870)  died  the  great 
traditionist  al-Bukhdr{,  the  author  of  the  celebrated  Collec- 
tion of  Traditions  called  the  Sahih,  which, 

MMiimhdat-      amongst    all    SunnI    Muhammadans,    ranks    as 

Ta™NasaTd     tne  highest  authority  on  this  subject.     Another 

work  on  the  same  subject,  and  bearing  the  same 

title,  was  compiled  by  Muslim  of  Nfshdpur,  who  died  a  few 

years  later  (A.D.  875) ;  another  by  at-Tirmidhf  (t  A.D.  892), 

and  a  fourth  by  an-Nasd'{  (t  A.D.  914).     These  four  great 

traditionists  were  all  natives  of  Khurdsdn,  and  were  probably 

of  Persian  extraction. 

The  only  other  writers  of  this  period  who  need  be 
mentioned  are  the  poetess  Fadl  of  Yamdma  (t  A.D.  873),  who 
in  her  earlier  life  professed  Shi'ite  views,  and  the  Christian 
physician  and  translator  Hunayn  b.  Ishdq,  who  poisoned 
himself  in  A.D.  873  on  account  of  the  vexation  caused  him  by 
his  excommunication  by  his  bishop  Theodosius. 

We  now  come  to  the  year  A.M.  260  (=  A.D.  873-4),  a  year 
memorable  for  the  following  important  events :  (i)  the 


DECLINE  OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

"  Occultation  "  or  Disappearance  of  the  Twelfth  Ln£m  of  the 
ShCite  "  Sect  of  the  Twelve  ;  "  (2)  the  beginning  of  the  Pro- 
paganda of  the  Shf'ite  "  Sect  of  the  Seven,"  or 
The2&,rA'H'  Isma'flis,  which  led  directly  to  the  rise  of  the 
Carmathians  (££armatly  pi.  ^aramita]  and  the 
foundation  of  the  Fatimid  Anti-Caliphate  of  North  Africa  and 
Egypt  ;  and  (3)  the  establishment  of  the  Samanid  dynasty  in 
Khurasdn.  In  this  year  also  the  great  Sufi  saint  Bayazfd  of 
Bistam  died,  and  the  theologian  Abu'l-Hasan  al-Ash'ari  was 
born  ;  he  who  was  destined  to  give  the  coup  de  grace  to  the 
Mu'tazilite  ascendancy  in  Islam,  and  to  give  currency  and  form 
to  that  narrower  and  more  illiberal  doctrine  which  has  given 
to  the  Muhammadan  religion  its  rigid  and  stereotyped  charac 
ter.  The  religious  phenomena  of  this  critical  period  will  be 
more  fully  discussed  in  the  following  chapter,  and  here  we 
shall  continue  to  speak  chiefly  of  external  and  political 
events. 

The  rise  of  the  Sdmanid  dynasty  coincided  with,  and  indeed 
brought  about,  the  fall  of  the  short-lived  power  of  the  Copper- 
smith's sons  Ya'qub  and  'Amr,  and  marks  the 
T1DyLdaTtynid  really  active  beginning  of  the  Persian  Renaissance. 
Samdn,  after  whom  the  dynasty  is  called,  claimed 
descent  from  Bahrain  Chubfn  (see  p.  181  supra),  and  the 
genuineness  of  this  pedigree  is  admitted  by  the  learned  and 
exact  Abu  Rayhan  al-Birunf.1  He  was  converted  from  the 
Zoroastrian  faith  to  Islam  by  Asad  b.  'Abdu'llah,  the  governor 
of  Khurasan,  after  whom  he  named  his  son.  His  four  grand- 
sons all  had  provincial  governments  in  Khurasan  in  the 
Caliphate  of  al-Ma'mun  (about  A.D.  819),  but  Ahmad,  the 
second  of  them,  was  most  successful  in  extending  and  con- 
solidating his  dominions,  and  his  two  sons,  Nasr  I  and  Isma'fl, 
succeeded  in  overthrowing  the  Saffarid  power,  taking  'Amr  b. 
Layth  (who  succeeded  his  brother  Ya'qub  in  A.D.  876)  captive 

1  See  p.  48  of  Sachau's  translation  of  his  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations. 
Al-Biruni  died  in  A.D.  1048. 


B.  LAYTH  353 

in  A.D.  900,  and  establishing  a  dynasty  which  flourished  for 
nearly  125  years  ere  it  was  in  turn  overthrown  by  the  rising 
might  of  the  House  of  Ghazna. 

Two  anecdotes  concerning  the  Saffdrids,  both  to  be  found 
in  the  Nidhamu'l-Mulk's  Siydsat-ndma  (ed.  Schefer,  pp.  13-16), 

are  too  typical  and  too  celebrated  amongst  the 
Acem1nMh°en"  Persians  to  be  omitted  here.  The  first  concerns 
deabhLaythq"b  the  elder  brother  Ya'qub.  When,  after  his  defeat 

by  the  troops  of  the  Caliph  al-Mu'tamid  on  the 
occasion  of  his  persistent  attempt  to  enter  Baghdad,  he  lay 
dying  of  colic,  the  Caliph,  still  tearing  him,  sent  him  a 
conciliatory  letter,  wherein,  while  reproaching  him  for  his 
disobedience,  he  held  out  conditional  promises  of  forgiveness 
and  compensation. 

"  When  Ya'qub  had  read  the  Caliph's  letter,"  says  the  narrator, 
"  his  heart  was  in  no  way  softened,  neither  did  he  experience  any 
remorse  for  his  action ;  but  he  bade  them  put  some  cress  and  fish 
and  a  few  onions  on  a  wooden  platter,  and  set  them  before  him. 
Then  he  bade  them  introduce  the  Caliph's  ambassador,  and  caused 
him  to  be  seated.  Then  he  turned  his  face  to  the  ambassador  and 
said,  '  Go,  tell  the  Caliph  that  I  am  the  son  of  a  coppersmith,  and 
learned  from  my  father  the  coppersmith's  craft.  My  food  has  been 
barley  bread,  fish,  cress  and  onions.  This  dominion  and  gear  and 
treasure  and  goods  I  won  by  cunning  and  courage ;  I  neither 
inherited  them  from  my  father  nor  received  them  from  thee.  I  will 
not  rest  until  I  send  thy  head  to  Mahdiyya  '  and  destroy  thy  House  : 
I  will  either  do  this  which  I  say,  or  I  will  return  to  my  barley  bread 
and  fish  and  cress.  Behold,  I  have  opened  the  doors  of  my  treasure- 
houses,  and  have  again  called  out  my  troops,  and  I  come  on  the  heels 
of  this  message.'"* 

This  anecdote  well  illustrates  the  character  ot  the  doughty 
coppersmith. 

1  The  genuineness  of  this  speech  is  disproved  by  this  anachronism. 
Mahdiyya,  the  first  capital  of  the  Fatimid  Caliphs,  was  not  founded  for 
more  than  thirty  years  after  Ya'qub's  death,  which  happened  in  June, 
A.D.  879. 

'  Cf.  Noldeke's  Sketches,  English  translation,  p.  193,  and  also  Ibnu'l* 
Athir,  Cairo  ed.,  vol.  vii,  p.  107. 

24 


354         DECLINE   OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

The    second   anecdote,    which    is    even    more    celebrated, 

concerns  the  final  defeat  of  'Amr  b.  Layth,  Ya'qiib's  brother 

and  successor,  who,  having  been  declared  a  rebel 

cerning 'Amr  b.    by  the    Caliph    al-Mu'tamid    in    A.D.    884,    was 

Layth's  defeat  by       '  '  -  . 

isma'ii  the      restored  to  favour  for  a  brief  period  in  A.D.  800, 

Samanid.  .  r 

then  again  disavowed,  until  in  May,  A.D.  895,  he 
was  utterly  routed  near  Balkh  by  Isma'ii  b.  Ahmad  the 
Samanid,  whom  the  Caliph  had  incited  to  attack  him.  Of 
the  seventy  thousand  horsemen  whom  he  had  reviewed  before  the 
battle,  all  were  scattered,  though,  it  is  said,  not  one  was  even 
wounded  ;  and  evening  saw  the  fallen  prince  a  captive  in  the 
enemy's  camp,  and  in  want  of  a  supper.  A  farrdsh,  who  had 
formerly  been  in  his  employment,  happened  to  pass  by,  and 
took  pity  on  him.  He  bought  some  meat,  borrowed  a  frying- 
pan  from  one  of  the  soldiers,  made  a  fire  of  camel-dung,  and 
set  the  pan  over  it,  supported  on  a  few  clods  of  earth.  Then 
he  went  off  to  get  some  salt,  and  while  he  was  gone  a  hungry 
dog,  attracted  by  the  savoury  smell,  came  up  and  thrust  its 
nose  into  the  frying-pan  to  pick  out  a  bone.  The  hot  frying-pan 
burned  its  nose,  and  as  it  drew  back  its  head  the  ring-like 
handle  of  the  pan  fell  on  its  neck,  and  when  it  took  to  its  heels 
in  terror  it  carried  the  frying-pan  and  the  supper  with  it.  When 
'Amr  saw  this,  he  turned  to  the  soldiers  and  sentinels  who 
stood  by  and  said,  "  Be  warned  by  me  !  I  am  he  whose 
kitchen  it  needed  four  hundred  camels  to  carry  this  morning, 
and  to-night  it  has  been  carried  off  by  a  dog  !  "  Abu  Mansur 
ath-Tha'alibf  remarks  in  his  Lataiful-Malarif  (ed.  de  Jong, 
p.  88)  that  two  of  the  most  extraordinary  battles  were  this 
one,  which  put  an  end  to  the  Saffarid  power,  when  an  army  of 
fifty  thousand  escaped,  though  utterly  routed,  only  the  leader 
being  taken  captive ;  and  the  battle  between  al-'Abbds  b. 
'Amr  and'the  Carmathians  at  Hajar,  wherein  the  ten  thousand 
soldiers  of  the  former  perished  to  a  man,  and  only  their  leader 
escaped. 

About  the  year  A.D.  880  there  rose  to  brief  but  considerable 


AHMAD  OF  KHUJISTAN  355 

.power  a  certain  Ahmad  of  Khujistdn  (near  Herat)  who  deserves 
a  passing  mention  because  of  the  manner  in  which,  according  to 
the  author  of  the  Chahdr  Maqala  (who  wrote 
about  the  middle  of  the  twelfth  century),1  his 
ambition  was  first  stirred  by  two  Persian  verses  of 
the  poet  Handhala  of  Badghis.  He  was  asked,  "  How  did'st 
thou,  who  wert  originally  an  ass-herd,  become  Amfr  of 
Khurasan  ?  "  "  One  day,"  he  answered,  "  I  was  reading  the 
Dfwan  of  Handhala  of  Badghis  in  Badghfs  of  Khujistan  when 
I  chanced  on  these  two  couplets  : — 

'  If  lordship  lies  within  the  lion's  jaws, 
Go,  risk  it,  and  from  those  dread  portals  seize 
Such  straight-confronting  death  as  men  desire, 
Or  riches,  greatness,  rank  and  lasting  ease.'  " 

At  this  time  the  Saffarids  were  at  the  zenith  of  their  power, 
and  al-Khujistanf,  moved  by  a  new  ambition,  sold  his  asses, 
bought  a  horse,  and  entered  the  service  of  'Amr  b.  Layth. 
Later  he  renounced  his  allegiance  to  them,  and  took  Khwaf, 
Bayhaq,  and  Ni'shapur.  "  My  affairs  prospered  and  improved," 
says  he,  "  until  all  Khurasan  lay  open  to  me,  and  I  took 
possession  of  it  for  myself.  Of  all  this,  these  two  verses  of 
poetry  were  the  cause."  This  story,  told  by  an  old  and 
generally  accurate  authority,  is  to  my  mind  the  best  proof  of 
the  existence  of  a  considerable  amount  of  Persian  poetry 
even  before  the  time  of  the  Samanids  ;  though  of  poets  who 
flourished  under  the  Tahirids  and  Saffarids  the  names  of  only 
some  half-dozen  at  most — the  above  Handjiala,  Mahmud  the 
bookseller  (Warraq),  Ffruz-i-Mashriqf,  Abu  Salik  of  Gurgan 
and  one  or  two  more — are  preserved  to  us. 

Under  the  Samanids  (A.D.  874-999)  the  case  was  different, 

and  we  find  Persian  verse,  and  to  a  lesser  extent 
thr&iLinfdl     Persian  prose,  flourishing  in  full  vigour,  the  most 

celebrated  poet  of  this  period  being  Riidagi  (or 

1  See  pp.  43-44  of  the  separate  reprint  of  the  translation  which  I 
published  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  1899. 


356         DECLINE   OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

Rawdhaki),  who  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  tenth 
century.  Indeed  his  fame  so  far  outshone  that  of  his  pre- 
decessors that  he  is  often  reckoned  the  first  Persian  poet  : 
thus  in  an  Arabic  "  Book  of  Origins  "  written  early  in  the 
thirteenth  century  x  occurs  the  following  passage  : — 

"The  first  to  compose  good  poetry  in  Persian  was  Abu  'Ab- 
di'llah  Ja'far  b.  Muhammad  b.  Hakim  b.  'Abdu'r-Rahman  b.  Adam 
ar-Rawdhakt,2  that  poet  so  piquant  in  expression,  so  fluent  in  verse, 
whose  Diwdn  is  famous  amongst  the  Persians,  and  who  was  the 
leader  in  Persian  poetry  in  his  time  beyond  all  his  contemporaries. 
The  minister  Abu'1-Fadl  al-Bal'ami  used  to  say,  '  Rawdhaki  has  no 
equal  amongst  the  Arabs  or  the  Persians.' " 

The  minister  above  cited  was  wazlr  to  Isma'il  b.  Ahmad, 
and  died  in  940  ;  he  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  his  son 

Abu    'Ali   al-Bal'ami,   who    was    wazlr   to    the 
Baraks.       Amir  Mansur  b.  Nuh,  translated  Tabarfs  great 

chronicle  into  Persian,  and  died  in  A.D.  996. 
Turning  once  more  to  Baghdad,  and  to  the  metropolitan, 
as  opposed  to  the  provincial,  writers  of  al-Mu'tamid's  Caliphate 

(A.D.  870-893),  we  need  notice  only,  amongst 
C^AD^STJ^Q;}  events  °f  general  importance,  the  suppression  of 
-  the  Zanj  insurrection  in  A.D.  883,  and  the 
increasing  activity  of  the  Carmathians,  whose  history  and 
doctrines  will  be  more  fully  discussed  in  the  next  chapter. 
The  chief  writers  and  thinkers  who  died  between  A.D.  874 
and  900  were  the  following  :  The  "  Philosopher  of  the  Arabs," 
Abu  Yusuf  Ya'qub  b.  Ishaq  al-Kindi,  whose  literary  activity 
chiefly  belongs  to  an  earlier  and  more  liberal  period,  is  supposed 
to  have  died  about  A.D.  874.  He  is  notable  as  one  of  the 
few  pure  Arabs  who  were  really  distinguished  in  the  domain 
of  thought  and  letters.  Hunayn  b.  Ishaq,  the  physician  and 
translator,  who  died  about  the  same  time,  has  been  already 

1  See  my    Hand-list  of    the  Muhammadan  MSS.   in  the  Cambridge 
University  Library,  pp.   125-6. 
3  See  Carra  de  Vaux,  Avicenne,  pp.  80-88. 


MEN  OF  LETTERS  (A.D.  874-900)         357 

mentioned.  Ibnu'l-Wahshiyya,  the  author  of  the  celebrated 
"  Book  of  Nabathzan  Agriculture,"  wherein  he  sought  to 
demonstrate,  the  superiority  of  the  old  Babylonians  to  the 
Arabs  in  point  of  civilisation,  flourished  about  this  period. 
Da'ud  b.  'All,  the  founder  of  the  Dhahiri  (or  Zahirite  x)  school, 
who  held  strongly  to  the  literal  meaning  of  the  Qur'an  and 
Traditions,  and  discountenanced  all  allegorical  interpretations,2 
died  in  A.D.  883.  Abii  Ma'shar,  the  great  astronomer,  one  of 
al-Kindi's  pupils,  died  in  A.D.  885,  about  which  time  al-Fakihi, 
the  historian  of  Mecca,  wrote.  Ibn  Maja  (t  A.D.  885)  should 
have  been  mentioned  in  connection  with  al-Bukhdrf  and  his 
successors  in  the  Science  of  Tradition.  Sahl  b.  'Abdu'llah  of 
Shushtar,  mystic  and  Qur'dn-reader,  was  a  pupil  of  the  earlier 
mystic  Dhu'n-Nvin,  and  died  about  A.D.  886.  As  a  collector 
and  critical  editor  of  old  Arabic  poems  (e.g.,  the  Diwdn  of  the 
poets  of  the  tribe  of  Hudhayl)  as-Sukkari,  one  of  al-Asma'i's 
pupils,  deserves  a  passing  mention  (t  A.D.  888).  The  erotic 
and  satirical  poet  Ibnu'r-Rumi  owed  his  death  (A.D.  889  or 
896)  to  his  bitter  tongue.  Ibn  Abi'd-Dunya  (d.  A.D.  894), 
tutor  to  the  Caliph  al-Muktafi  in  his  youth,  was  the  author  of 
several  collections  of  stories  and  anecdotes.  Al-Buhturi  the 
poet  (A.D.  897)  and  al-Mubarrad  the  philologist  (t  A.D.  899) 
ought  also  to  be  mentioned.  Much  more  important,  however, 
from  our  point  of  view  are  the  four  historians  Ibn  Qutayba 
(t  A.D.  889),  al-Baladhuri  (t  A.D.  892),  ad-Dinawari  (t  A.D. 
895),  and  Ibn  Wadih  al-Ya'qubi,  who  wrote  about  this  time. 3 
Of  these,  the  first  three  were  Persians,  while  the  last  was  an 


*•  See  a  monograph  on  this  school  by  Dr.  Ignaz  Goldziher,  Die  Zdhiriten 
Leipzig,  1884. 

a  See  Brockelmann's  Gesch.  d.  Arab.  Litt.,  vol.  i,  pp.  120,  123,  and  141. 

3  The  works  of  these  writers,  which  have  been  published  and  are  easily 
accessible,  and  which  should  be  read  by  all  students  of  Persian  history, 
are  :  the  Kitdbu'l-Ma'drif  of  Ibn  Qutayba  (ed.  Wustcnfeld,  GSttingen, 
1850) ;  the  Futithu'l-Bulddn  (ed.  de  Goeje,  Leyden,  1855) ;  the  Akhbdru't- 
fiwdlol  Dinawari  (ed.  Guirgass,  Leyden,  1888)  ;  and  al-Ya'qiibi's  History 
(ed.  Houtsma,  Leyden,  1883,  2  vols.). 


358         DECLINE  OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

ardent  Shi'ite,  which  gives  his  admirable  history  a  special 
interest,  since  he  speaks  at  greater  length  of  the  Imams,  and 
cites  many  of  their  sayings.  Indeed  Goldziher  and  Brockel- 
mann,  two  of  the  greatest  living  authorities  on  Arabic  literature 
in  its  widest  sense,  agree  in  the  opinion  "that  the  historical 
sense  was  entirely  lacking  in  the  ancient  Arabs,"  and  that 
"the  idea  of  historiography  was  first  inspired  in  them  by 
Persian  culture."1  To  the  writers  above  enumerated  we 
may  add  the  celebrated  mathematician  Thabit  b.  Qurra  the 
Harranian,  and  the  geographer  Ibnu'l-Faqih  al-Hamadhanf, 
both  of  whom  died  about  the  beginning  of  the  tenth  century 
of  our  era. 

On  the  death  of  the  Caliph  al-Mu'tadid  and  the  accession 

of  his  son  al-Muktaf{  the  Samanids  were  practically  supreme 

in    Persia,  while  around   Baghdad  and  Basra,  in 

Caliphate  of 

ai-Muktafi       Syria    and   in   Yaman  the   terrible  Carmathians, 

(A.D.  902-908).  J 

under  their  able  leader  Zikrawayh,  inspired  the 
utmost  terror — a  terror  which  cannot  be  regarded  as  ill-founded 
when  we  remember  that  on  the  occasion  of  one  of  their 
attacks  on  the  pilgrim-caravans  returning  from  Mecca  20,000 
persons  are  said  to  have  been  left  dead  on  the  field.  Only  two 
writers  of  note  who  died  during  this  period  need  be  mentioned  : 
the  Shf'ite  divine  al-Qumm{  (t  A.D.  903),  and  the  royal  poet 
Ibnu'l-Mu'tazz,  who  is  notable  as  having  produced  one  of  the 
nearest  approximations  to  an  epic  poem  to  be  found  in  Arabic 
literature,2  and  also  one  of  the  "  Memoirs  of  the  Poets " 
(Tabaq&t\  which  served  as  a  model  to  ath-Tha'alib^al-Bakharzf, 
and  other  compilers  of  such  biographical  anthologies. 

We  next   come   to    the    comparatively  long  reign    of  al- 
Muqtadir    (A.D.    908-932),   of    which    the   most   important 


1  Brockelmann,  op.  cit.,  p.  134. 

2  See  pp.  83-86  of  Brockelmann's  Gesch.  a.  Arab.  Lift,  (in  vol.  vi  of 
Amelang's  monographs,  Leipzig,  1901  ;  not  to  be  confounded   with   the 
more  scientific  work  by  the  same  author,  and  with  almost  the  same  title, 
published  at  Weimar  in  1897-    ). 


REIGN  OF  AL-MUQTADIR  359 

political    event   was    the   establishment   ot    the    Fatimid,    or 

Isma'llf,  Anti-Caliphate    in  North   Africa   (A.D.    909),   with 

Mahdiyya   ("the    City   of  the    Mahdf,"    i.e.,   of 

ai-Muqtadir      'Ubadu'lldh,  the  first  Caliph  of  this  dynasty)  as 
(A.D.  9ofH>32).     .  .        *  .  .  '        ': 

its   capital.      I  he    activity   or    the    L/armathians 

continued  unabated,  in  spite  of  the  deaths  of  their  leaders 
Zikrawayh  and  al-Jannabf  the  Elder  :  in  A.D.  924  they 
entered  Basra  ;  in  the  following  year  they  again  attacked  the 
Pilgrim-caravan  ;  in  A.D.  929  they  invaded  Mecca  itself,  and, 
to  the  unspeakable  horror  of  all  pious  Muslims,  carried  off  the 
Sacred  Black  Stone,  which  they  kept  for  twenty  years  ;  while, 
in  the  closing  -years  of  al-Muqtadir's  reign,  they  entered  Kufa 
and  took  possession  of  'Umman.  About  this  time,  however, 
their  activity  was  checked,  not  so  much  by  any  external 
force,  as  by  the  scandals  connected  with  the  appearance  of  the 
false  Mahdf  Ibn  Abf  Zakariyya,1  whose  abominable  teachings 
are  summarised  by  al-Bininf  in  his  Chronology  of  indent 
Nations."2  Yet  some  years  later,  in  A.D.  939,  we  find  them 
still  levying  blackmail  (khif&ra)  on  the  pilgrims  to  Mecca.3 

To  turn  now  to  Persian  affairs  at  this  period,  we  may  notice 
first  the  final  suppression,  even  in  Sfstdn,  of  the  House  of  Layth 

(the  Saffarids)  about  A.D.  910,  when  Tahir  and 
af?h?snPerkJd3     Ya'qub,    the   grandsons    of   'Amr,    were    taken 

prisoners  and  sent  captive  to  Baghdad.  In  A.D. 
913  Nasr  II  succeeded  to  the  Samanid  throne,  and  in  his 
long  reign  (he  died  in  A.D.  942)  the  power  and  splendour  of 
that  illustrious  House  reached  their  zenith,4  and  Riidagf,  the 
first  great  Persian  poet,  was  at  the  height  of  his  renown  and 
popularity.  Yet  Tabaristan  was  wrested  from  him  by  the 
'Alawf  Sayyid  Hasan  b.  1AH  Utrush,  whose  family  maintained 
their  footing  there  till  A.D.  928,  when  Marddwfj  b.  Ziyar 
succeeded  in  seizing  the  province  and  establishing  there  a 

1  See  de  Goeje's  Carmathes  du  Bahrain,  p.  131. 

*  Sachau's  translation,  pp.  196-7.  3  De  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  p.  140. 

4  Chahur  Maqdla,  separate  reprint,  p.  51. 


360-        DECLINE  >OF  THE  CALIPHATE 

dynasty  (known  as  the  Ziyarids)  which  endured,  and  played 
an  honourable  part  in  the  promotion  of  learning  and  the 
protection  of  letters,  for  more  than  a  century,  ere  it  was 
extinguished  by  the  Ghaznawls.  And  in  yet  another  way 
Mardawfj  played  an  important  part  in  Persian  history,  for  to 
him  the  great  House  of  Buwayh,  which  by  the  middle  of  the 
tenth  century  was  practically  supreme  throughout  Southern 
Persia  and  in  Baghdad  itself,  owed  its  first  fortunes  ;  and  from 
him  cAlib.  Buwayh,  who  afterwards,  with  the  title  of 'Imddu'd- 
Dawla,  ruled  over  Fars,  or  Persis  proper,  received  his  first 
appointment  as  governor  of  Karach. 

Amongst  the  men  of  learning  who  flourished  at  this  epoch 

the  first  place  must  without  doubt  be  assigned  to  the  historian 

Abu  Ja'far  Muhammad  .b.  Jarfr  at-Tabarf  (t  A.D. 

Writers  and  men  x  .  ,-,,  .    , 

of  learning  of  this  Q2?),1  whose  great  Chronicle  ends  ten  years  earlier 

epoch.-tabari.     *   *»  \    . 

(A.H.  300  =  A.D.  912-913),  thus  depriving  us  of 
one  of  our  best  sources  of  information,  though  the  Supplement 
of  'Arfb  b.  Sa'd  of  Cordova  carries  us  down  to  the  end  of 
al-Muqtadir's  Caliphate  (A.H.  320  =  A.D.  932),  after  which  we 
have  to  depend  chiefly  for  general  history  on  Ibnu'l-Athfr 
(t  A.D.  1232-3),  the  author  of  the  great  Kamilut-TawMkh* 

"In  this  year"  (A.H.  310),  says  the  latter,  "died  at  Baghdad  Mu- 
hammad b.  Jarir  at-Tabari,  the  historian,  who  was  born  in  A.H.  224 
(=  A.D.  838-9).  He  was  buried  by  night  in  his  house,  because  the 
mob  assembled  and  prevented  him  from  being  buried  by  day, 
declaring  that  he  was  a  Rafidi  (Shi'ite)  and  even  a  heretic.  And 
'Ali  b.  'Isa  used  to  say,  '  By  Allah,  were  these  people  to  be  questioned 


1  The  edition  of  this  great  work  by  Professor  de  Goeje  and  a  small  body 
of  the  most  distinguished  Arabic  scholars  must  be  regarded  as  the  greatest 
achievement  of   Oriental  scholarship  in   Europe  in  "recent  times.     This 
edition  comprises  13  vols.  of  text  and  2  vols.  of  Indices  and  Apparatus 
Criticus  ;  the  publication  was  begun  at   Leyden   in  A.D.  1879,  ar*d  com- 
pleted in   1901.     'Arib's   Tabari  continuatus,   edited  by  de   Goeje,  was 
published  in  1897. 

2  Tornberg's  edition  (Leyden,  1851-1876)  in  14  vols.  is  the  best,  as  it  has 
an  index,  which  the  Cairo  edilion  of  A.H.  1303  (the  text  which  I  have  used 
throughout)  has  not. 


AL-HUSAYN  B.  MANSER  AL-HALlAj    361 

as  to  what  was  meant  by  a  Rafidt  or  a  heretic,  they  would  neither 
know  nor  be  capable  of  understanding  ! '  Thus  Ibn  Miskawayh,  the 
author  of  the  Tajdribu'l-umam,  who  defends  this  great  leader  of 
thought  (Imam)  from  these  charges.  Now  as  to  what  he  says  con- 
cerning the  fanaticism  of  the  mob,  the  matter  was  not  so  ;  only  some 
of  the  Hanbalites,  inspired  with  a  fanatical  hatred  of  him,  attacked 
him,  and  they  were  followed  by  others.  And  for  this  there  was  a 
reason,  which  was  that  Tabari  compiled  a  book,  the  like  of  which 
had  never  been  composed,  wherein  he  mentioned  the  differences 
of  opinion  of  the  theologians,  but  omitted  all  reference  to  Ahmad 
b.  Hanbal.  And  when  he  was  taken  to  task  about  this,  he  said, 
'  He  was  not  a  theologian,  but  only  a  traditionist ; '  and  this  annoyed 
the  Hanbalites,  who  were  innumerable  in  Baghdad  ;  so  they  stirred 
up  mischief  against  him,  and  said  what  they  pleased." 

Of  an  utterly  different  character  to  this  sober  and  erudite 
historian  was  another  Persian  of  this  period,  whose  reputation 

— somewhat  transfigured,  it  is  true,  by  pious 
Mansuraf-Haudj.  hagiologists — is  at  least  as  enduring  amongst  his 

countrymen,  and  to  whom  admiring  references 
are  frequently  made  by  the  Persian  Siiff  poets,  such  as  Farfdu'd- 
Dfn  4Attar,  Hafidh  and  the  like.  This  was  al-Husayn  b. 
Mansur  "  the  Wool-carder  "  (al-Hallaj),  who  was  arrested  for 
preaching  heretical  doctrines  in  Baghdad  and  the  neighbour- 
hood in  A.D.  913  (Tabarf,  iii,  p.  2289),  and  put  to  death  with 
circumstances  of  great  cruelty  in  A.D.  921.  The  charge 
against  him  which  is  chiefly  remembered  is  that  in  a  state  ot 
ecstasy  he  cried,  "  Ana'1-Haqq  "  ("I  am  the  True  One,"  or 
"the  Fact,"  i.e.  God),  and  the  Stiffs  regard  this  utterance  as 
the  outcome  of  a  state  of  exaltation  wherein  the  Seer  was  so 
lost  in  rapture  at  the  contemplation  of  the  Beatific  Vision  of 
the  Deity  that  he  lost  all  cognisance  and  consciousness  of  him- 
self, and  indeed  of  all  Phenomenal  Being.  At  most,  say  they, 
his  crime  was  only  that  he  revealed  the  secret ;  and  generally 
he  is  regarded  as  a  saint  and  a  martyr.  Thus  Hafidh  says  (ed. 
Rosenzweig-Schwannau,  vol.  i,  p.  364)  : — 

Chu  Mansiirdn  nturdd  dndn  ki  bar  ddrand  bar  ddr-and, 
Ki  bd  in  dard  agar  dar  band-i-darmdn-and,  dar  mdnantt. 


362         DECLINE   OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

"Those  who  attain  their  desire  are,  like  Mansurs,  crucified, 
For  if,  [being  afflicted]  with  this  grief,  they  hope  for  a  remedy, 
they  fail  [to  find  it]." 

And  again  in  another  poem  (not  given  in  the  above  edition) 
he  says  : — 

Kashad  naqsh-i-  'ANA'L-HAQQ'  bar  zantln  khiin, 
Chu  Mansiir  ar  kashi  bar  ddr-am  imshab  I 

"  My  blood  would  write  '  I  am  the  True  One '  on  the  ground, 
If  thou  wert  to  hang  me,  like  Mansur,  on  the  cross  to-night.' 

The  later  Stiff  conception  of  this  man  may  be  found  in  such 
works  as  the  Tadhkiratul-Awllya  of  Faridu'd-Dm  'Attar, 
or  the  Nafahdtifl-  Uns  of  Jdmf,  or,  for  European  readers,  in 
Tholuck's  Ssufisrnus  (Berlin,  1821),  pp.  68,  152,  &c.  ;  but  the 
older  and  better  authorities,  Tabari  (iii,  p.  2289),  Ibn  Mis- 
kawayh  and  the  Kitdbu'l-  lUyiin  (cited  on  pp.  86-108  of  de 
Goeje's  ed.  of  'Arib),  and  the  Fihrist  (pp.  190-192),  present 
him  in  a  different  light  as  "a  wily  conjuror,"  "  bedecking  his 
doctrines  in  the  phraseology  of  the  Sufis,"  "an  ignorant  and 
forward  pretender  to  all  the  sciences,"  "  a  dabbler  in 
Alchemy,"  a  dangerous  and  impudent  political  intriguer, 
claiming  to  be  an  Incarnation  of  the  Deity  and  outwardly 
professing  the  Shi'ite  doctrine,  but  actually  in  league  with 
the  Carmathians  and  Isma'iKs.  Some  forty-five  books  com- 
posed by  him  are  enumerated  by  the  Fihrist  (p.  192),  and 
what  we  learn  (^Arib^  p.  90)  as  to  the  sumptuous  manner 
in  which  they  are  written  out,  sometimes  with  gold  ink,  on 
Chinese  paper,  brocade,  silk,  and  the  like,  and  magnificently 
bound,  reminds  us  strongly  of  the  Manichaeans.  In  short, 
as  to  the  extreme  unorthodoxy  of  this  Persian,  whose  near 
ancestors  had  held  the  Magian  faith,  there  can  be  little  doubt, 
though  the  great  al-Ghazzdli  himself  undertook  his  defence  in 
the  Mishkdtul-Anwdr  £Ar\b,  p.  1 08)  ;  he  certainly  held  all 
the  cardinal  doctrines  of  the  Ghuldt  or  extreme  Shf'ites;  to  wit, 


REIGN  OF  AL-MUQTADIR  363 

Hulul  (Incarnation),  Rlfat  (Return  to  the  life  of  the  world  in 
another  body),  and  the  like.  But  he  is  a  remarkable  figure, 
and  has  created  a  deep  impression  on  the  minds  of  his  country- 
men, while  some  of  his  Arabic  verses  are  really  strong  and 
original,  as,  for  instance,  the  following  (^Arlb^  p.  106)  : — 


"  My  Friend  is  unrelated  to  aught  of  ruth  : 
He  gave  me  to  drink  of  the  Cup  which  He  quaffs,  as  doth  host 

with  guest. 
And  when  the   Cup  had  gone   round,  He  called  for  the  sword 

and  the  headsman's  carpet : 
Thus  fares  it  with   him  who  drinks  Wine  with  the  Dragon  in 

Summer." 

His  master  and  teacher  Junayd  (also,  as  it  would  appear, 

junaydot  a  Persian),  who  died  in  A.D.  910,  was  only  a  little 
less  celebrated,  and  not  much  more  orthodox. 

Amongst  other  eminent  men  who  died  during  the  Caliphate 

01  al-Muqtadir  were  Ishaq  b.  Hunayn,  like  his  father  a  physician 

and    translator  into    Arabic  of  works  on   Greek 

°meneoTaT-nt    Philosophy  (t   A.D.   911);  an-Nasa'i,  the    tradi- 

c^ptl'te3  tiormt  (f  A.D.  914);  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  b. 
Zakariyyd  ar-Rdzf,  the  eminent  physician  known 
to  mediaeval  Europe  as  Rhazes  (t '  A.D.  923  or  9^2)^_whose 
most  celebrated  work,  the  Mansurly  was  dedicated  to  the 
Sdmdnid  Prince  Mansur  b.  Ishdq  ;  the  historian  al-A'tham  of 
Kiifa,  whose  History  of  the  Early  Caliphs  is  remarkable  for 
its  strong  Shi'ite  bias,  and  is  only  known  to  us  through  its 
much  later  Persian  translation  (lithographed  at  Bombay  A.H. 
1305)  ;  Muhammad  b.  Jdbir  b.  Sindn  al-Battdnf,  the  astronomer, 
known  to  mediaeval  Europe  as  Albategnius  (t  A.D.  929)  ;  and 
the  poet  Ibnu'l-'  Alldf  (t  A.D.  930),  a  friend  of  Ibnu'l-Mu'tazz, 
whose  cruel  death,  which  could  not  be  openly  deplored,  is 
supposed  to  form  the  real  subject  of  the  celebrated  poem 
professedly  written  on  the  death  of  a  favourite  cat  killed  by 
a  pigeon-rancier  on  account  or  its  depredations.1  Lastly  \v-j 

1  See  de  Slane's  Ibn  Khallikdn,  vol.  i,  pp.  4oo~4or. 


364         DECLINE   OP   THE   CALIPHATE 

may  mention  Ibn  Muqla,  the  famous  calligraphist,  who  was 
wazlr  to  al-Muqtadir  and  his  two  immediate  successors. 

The  short  reigns  of  the  next  four  Caliphs,  al-Qdhir,  ar- 
Radf,  al-Muttaqf  and  al-Mustakff  (A.D.  932-946),  were  chiefly- 
remarkable  for  the  rise  of  the  Bu  way  hid  power, 
to-  of  which  the  first  beginnings  have  been  already 
mentioned.  With  the  help  of  their  Daylamf  and 
Gflani  troops,  the  three  sons  of  Buwayh,  'All  ^Imadud-Dawla^ 
Hasan  Ruknud-Dawla  and  Ahmad  Muii<zzu>d-Dawla,  having 
successively  subdued  Isfahan,  Arrajan,  Nawbandajan,  Kazarun, 
Shfrdz,  Kirman  and  Ahwaz,  obtained  effective  control  of 
Baghdad  itself  during  the  short  reign  of  al-Mustakff,  who, 
besides  the  honorific  titles  given  above  in  italics,  conferred 
on  the  third  brother  the  style  and  rank  of  Am'iru^l-Umara^ 
or  Chief  Noble.1  These  Buwayhids  were  Persians  and 
Shf'ites  :  they  claimed  (though,  as  al-Bfrunf  holds,2  on 
insufficient  grounds)  descent  from  the  Sasanian  King  Bahram 
Gur;  and  they  were  generous  patrons  of  literature  and  science. 
Philosophy  especially,  which  had  been  stifled  by 
Th'nflueSceCent  Turkish  ascendancy  and  Hanbalite  fanaticism,  as 
well  as  by  the  growing  strength  of  al-Ashcari's 
doctrines,  once  more  revived,  and  soon  found  expression  in 
the  formation  of  that  remarkable  fraternity  of  encyclopaedists 
known  as  the  Ikhwanu's-SafA,  or  "Brethren  of  Purity,"  who 
summed  up  the  physical  and  metaphysical  sciences 
Th«  ikhw&mt's-  Qf  ^^  tjmg  >n  a  serjes  of  flfty.one  tracts,  the 

contents   of   which    have    been    largely    rendered 
accessible    to    European    readers    by    Professor    F.   Dieterici's 
numerous    publications    on    this    subject.      In    the    Caspian 
provinces    the    House    of    Ziyar    maintained    an 
authority  curtailed  in    other    directions    by  their 
own   protlghy  the    Buwayhids  ;    which   authority 

1  Lane's  Muhammadan  Dynasties,  pp.  139-144. 

3  Al-Biruni's    Chronology   of  Ancient   Nations   (Sachau's    translation), 
PP-  4S-46- 


THE  S  AM  A  NWS  365 

was  wielded  for  thirty-two  years  (A.D.  935-957)  by  Washmgfr, 
the  son  of  Ziydr  and  brother  of  Mardawij. 

In  the  north-east  of  Persia,  Khurisan  and  Transoxiana  the 

Sdmanid  power,  represented  by  Nasr  II  and  his  son  Nuh,  was 

still  at  its  height,  and  the  literary  revival  of  which 

TheSamanids.  .  . '3          .  . 

their  Court  was  the  centre  continued  in  full  vigour. 
But  it  must  not  be  supposed,  as  has  sometimes  been  done, 
that  the  encouragement  of  Persian  literature  for  which  these 
princes  are  so  remarkable  indicated  any  tendency  or  desire  on 
their  part  to  repress  or  restrict  the  use  of  the  Arabic  language. 
Abundant  evidence  of  their  liberal  patronage  of  Arabic  letters 
is  afforded  by  the  entire  fourth  volume  of  the  Yatlmatud  Dahr^ 
the  celebrated  Arabic  anthology  of  Abu  Mansur  'Abdu'  1-Malik 
ath-Tha'alibl  of  Nfshapur  (b.  A.D.  961,  d.  A.D.  1038).  The 
substance  of  this  portion  of  his  work  has  been  rendered 
accessible  to  the  European  reader  by  M.  A.  C.  Barbier  de 
Meynard  in  two  articles  published  in  the  Journal  Asiatique 
for  Feb.-March,  1853  (PP-  I^9~239)>  an^  March-April,  1854 
(pp.  291-361), under  the  title  "Tableau  litteraire  du  Khorassan 
et  de  la  Transoxiane  au  quatrieme  siecle  de  1'Hegire";  but 
one  passage  of  the  original  work  (Damascus  ed.,  vol.  iv, 
pp.  33-4)  so  strongly  emphasises  this  point  that  it  is  here 
given  in  translation: — 

"  Bukhara  was,  under  the  Samanid  rule,  the  Focus  of  Splendour, 

the   Shrine   of    Empire,   the    Meeting-place    of    the   most  unique 

intellects  of  the  Age,  the  Horizon  of  the  literary  stars 

Literary  spien-   of  the  World,  and  the  Fair  of  the  greatest  scholars  of 

d°Uun°def  the  "*  the  Peri°d-    Abu  Ja'far  Muhammad  b.  Musa  al-Musawi 

Samanids.       related  to  me  as  follows.     '  My  father  Abu'l- Hasan 

received  an  invitation  to  Bukhara  in  the  days  of  the 

Amir-i-Sa'id  [Nasr  II  b.  Ahmad,  reigned  A.D.  913-942],  and  there 

were  gathered  together  the  most  remarkable  of  its  men  of  letters, 

such  as  Abu'l- Hasan  al-Lahh.'im,  Abu  Muhammad  b.  Matran,  Abu 

Ja'far  b.  al- 'Abbas  b.  al-Hasan,  Abu  Muhammad  b.  Abu  'th-Thiyab, 

Abu'n-Nasr  al-Harthami,  Abu  Nasr  adh-Dharifi,  Rija  b.  al-Walid 

al-Isbahani,  'All  b.  Hariin  ash-Shaybani,  Abu  Ishaq  al-Farsi,  Abu'l- 

Qasim  ad-Dinawari,  Abu  'Ali  az-Zawzani,  and  others  belonging  to 


366         DECLINE   OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

the  same  class.1  And  when  these  were  settled  in  familiar  conver- 
sation one  would  engage  with  another  in  plucking  the  fringes  of 
some  discussion,  each  offering  to  the  other  fragrant  flowers  of 
dialectic,  and  pursuing  the  perfumes  of  Culture,  and  letting  fall  in 
succession  necklaces  of  pearls,  and  blowing  on  magical  knots.7 
And  my  father  said  to  me,  "  O  my  son,  this  is  a  notable  and  red- 
letter  day  :  make  it  an  epoch  as  regards  the  assembling  of  the 
standards  of  talent  and  the  most  incomparable  scholars  of  the  age, 
and  remember  it,  when  I  am  gone,  amongst  the  great  occasions  of 
the  period  and  the  notable  moments  of  thy  life.  For  I  scarcely 
think  that  in  the  lapse  of  the  years  thou  wilt  see  the  like  of  these 
met  together."  And  so  it  was,  for  never  again  was  my  eye 
brightened  with  the  sight  of  such  a  gathering.' " 

Amongst  the  men  of  learning  and  letters  who  died  during 

these    fourteen    years    were     the    following  :     Abu'l-Hasan 

al-Ash'arl   (t  A.D.  935),  the   chief  promoter  or 

years  Ago.932-e  the  orthodox  reaction,  to  whom  most  justly  might 

the  Mu'tazilites  to  whom  he  owed  his  education 

apply  the  words  of  the  poet : — 

U'alhmuhu'r-  nmdyala  kulla  yawmin, 
Fa-lamma  'shtadda  sd'iduhu,  ramd-ni ! 

"  I  taught  him  daily  how  to  use  the  bow, 
And  when  his  arm  grew  strong  he  laid  me  low  ! " 

Ibn  Durayd,  the  philologist  (t  A.D.  934),  author  of  the  Arabic 
lexicon  entitled  the  Jamhara.  Sa'id  b.  'al-Bafriq,  better 
known  as  Eutychius  (t  A.D.  929),  the  Christian  patriarch 
of  Alexandria,  author  of  a  well-known  history.  Ibn  'Abd 
Rabbihi  of  Cordova  (t  A.D.  940),  poet  and  historian. 

1  Literal!}',  ''  and  such  as  were  strung  on  their  string,"  the  simile  being 
derived  from  a  necklace  of  pearls. 

2  Eloquence  is  called  by  the  Muslims  "  sihr-i-haldl,"  "  lawful  Magic." 
Concerning  "  blowing  on  knots,"  see  the  commentaries  on  Sura  cxiii  of 
the  Qur'an.    "  This  "  (blowing  on  knots  as  a  magical  practice),  says  Sale, 
"was  a  common  practice  in  former  days  :   what  they  call  in   France 
nouer  I'aiguillette,  and  the  knots  which  the  wizards  in  the  northern  parts 
tie,  when  they  sell  mariners  a  wind  (if  the  stories  told  of  them  be  true), 
are  also  relics  of  the  same  superstition." 


REIGN  OF  AL-MUTI1  367 

Ai-KuHnf  (or  Kulaynf,  t  A.D.  939),  a  celebrated  theologian 
of  the  Sh^a,  author  of  the  KAfL  The  physicians  Sindn  b. 
Thdbit  b.  Qurra  (t  A.D.  942),  his  son  Ibrahim  (t  A.D.  947), 
and  'Ubaydu'llah  b.  Jibn'l  b.  B6kht-Yishu<  (t  A.D.  941). 
The  theologian  al-Maturidf  (t  A.D.  944)  ;  Ibn  Serapion 
(t  circ.  A.D.  945),  the  author  of  the  very  interesting  descrip- 
tion of  Baghdad  published  and  translated  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society  by  Mr.  Guy  le  Strange  in  1895  ;  the 
historian  as-SuH  (t  A.D.  946),  a  converted  Magian  of  Gurgdn  ; 
and  the  Sufi  saint  ash-ShibH  (d.  A.D.  946)  of  KhurdsAn,  the 
disciple  of  Junayd  of  Baghdad,  and  fellow-student  of  Husayn 
b.  Mansur  al-Hallaj.  For  religious  manifestations  this  period 
was  not  remarkable  :  the  Carmathians,  as  has  been  already 
noted,  discouraged  by  the  scandals  connected  with  their  false 
Mahdi  Ibn  Abf  ZakariyyA,  were  remarkably  quiet :  their 
eminent  general  Abu  Tahir  al-Jannabf  died  in  A.D.  944  :  the 
power  of  the  Fdtimid  Caliphs  was  seriously  checked  in  North 
Africa ; r  and  a  few  years  later  (A.D.  950)  we  find  the  Black 
Stone  restored  to  Mecca  and  Carmathian  soldiers  in  the  service 
of  the  Buwayhid  prince  Mu'izzu'd-Dawla. 

We   now    come    to    the    long    reign    of   al-Mutf   (A.D. 

946-974),  during  which   the  general   political   conditions  in 

Persia  underwent  little  change,  the  Saminids  still 

aiaMPut?'  (A°D.     holding  the  north  and  north-east,  the  Ziyarids  the 

Caspian    provinces,  and    the    House  of   Buwayh 

the  south  and  (save  in  name)  Baghdad,  where,  under  the  title 

of  Amlrul-Umara^    they    were    practically  supreme.     During 

the  last   decade   of  this    period    the    FAtimid  anti-Caliph  al- 

Mu'izz  Abu   Tamfm  Ma'add  obtained   possession  of  Egypt, 

and   transferred  his  capital  from  Mahdiyya  to  Cairo,   which 

thenceforward  till  the  extinction  of  the  dynasty  in  A.D.  1171 

remained  the  centre  of  their  power.     About  the  same  time 

a   quarrel   arose    between    them  and   their  former   allies   the 

1  See  de  Goeje's  Utmoirc  surles  Carmathcs,  &c.  (Leyden,  1886),  pp.  142-3. 


368         DECLINE  OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

Carmathians,   who   about   A.D.    971    even    allied    themselves 
with  the  'Abbasids.1 

Turning  once  more  to  the  world  of  literature  and  science, 

we  may  note  the  following  events.     In   A.D.  950  died  Abu 

Nasr  al-FdrabL  the  greatest  philosopher  of  Islam 

Literary  mani-     .      ,. '         A     .  .         . 

festations  of  this  before  Avicenna,  and,  curiously  enough,  of  Turkish 

period.  } 

origin.2  About  the  same  time  al-Istakhrithe 
geographer  produced  his  recension  ofa]^B^Hftirs  work,  and  the 
Persian  sea-captain  Buzurg  b.  Shahriydr  of  Rdmhurmuz  wrote 
in  Arabic,  from  his  own  recollections  and  information  derived 
from  other  travellers,  his  curious  work  on  the  Marueh  of  India. 
The  death  of  Rudagf,  generally  regarded  as  the  father  of 
Persian  poetry,  and  the  birth  of  another  Persian  poet,  Kisd'f, 
also  happened  at  this  time.  About  A.D.  956  died  the  great 
historian  al-Mas'udi,  of  Arab  extraction  and  alleged  Mu'ta- 

zilite    leanings,    of   whose    voluminous    writings 

Al-Mas'udi.  ,    "I?  . 

the  Kitabu  t-lanbin  wa  l-lshraf  is  accessible  to 
students  in  the  original  Arabic,  and  the  better  known  Muruju 
'dh-Dhahab  both  in  the  original  and  in  the  French  translation 
of  MM.  Barbier  de  Meynard  and  Pavet  de  Courteille. 
Narshakhf,  the  historian  of  Bukhdrd  (preserved  to  us  only 
in  the  later  Persian  translation  of  al-Qubawf  made  about 
A.D.  1128)  died  in 'A.D.  959.  Gushyar,  the  astronomer  ot 
Gflan,  flourished  about  the  same  time ;  as  did  also  the 
Christian  physician  'Isi  b.  *AH,  who  compiled  a  Biography 
of  Oculists.  In  A.D.  961  was  born  Abu  Mansiir  'Abdu'l- 
Malik  ath-Tha'alibf,  the  author  of  the  Yatimatud-Dahr 

cited  above,  as  well  as  of  many  other  important 

Persia^1  'wl'ion  an<^  interesting  works,  at  Nfshipiir.     About  three 

'°f  history"'1'*    years  later  the  minister  of  Mansiir  I  the  Sdma- 

nid,  Abu  'All  Muhammad  al-Bal'amf,  at  the  com- 

1  De  Goeje,  op.  laud.,  pp.  176  and  183  el  seqq. 

3  See  Moritz  Steinschneider's  Al-Farabi  des  arabischen  Philosophen  Leben 
und  Schriften  in  vol.  xiii  of  the  Mem.  de  I'Acad.  de  St.  P. ;  Carra  de  Vaux's 
Avicenne,  pp.  91  et  seqq,  &c. 


AL-MUTANABB!  369 

mand  of  his  royal  master,  translated  into  Persian  in  an 
abridged  form  the  great  history  of  Taban,  which  is  one  of  the 
earliest  important  prose  works  in  Persian  which  have  come 
down  to  us.  This  version  has  been  published  in  a  French 
translation  by  Dubeux  and  Zotenberg  (Paris,  1867-1874),  and 
the  number  ot  excellent  and  carefully  written  old  MSS.  of  it 
which  exist  in  our  public  libraries  show  in  what  high  esteem 
it  was  held. 

A   few   years  later    (A.D.    965)    died    al-Mutanabbf,   who, 

though   disparaged   by  some   European   scholars,  is  generally 

regarded    by   all    Arabic-speaking    people   as   the 

Al-Mutanabbi.  }         -•     ,.  ,, 

greatest  poet  or  their  race.  Von  Hammer  calls 
him,  in  the  translation  of  his  poems  which  he  published  at 
Vienna  in  1823,  "  der  grosste  Arabische  Dichter "  ;  and 
Jules  Mohl  (Journal  Asiatique  for  1859,  sei"ies  v>  vol.  14, 
pp.  36-7)  has  the  following  most  sensible  remarks  on  him  : — 

"  Quant  au  rang  que  chaque  poete  doit  occuper  dans  sa  litterature 
nationale,  il  n'appartient  qu'a  sa  propre  nation  de  le  lui  assignor,  et 
s'il  le  garde  pendant  des  siecles,  comme  Motanabbi  1'a  garde,  il  ne 
nous  reste  qu'a  accepter  1'opinion  de  ses  juges  naturels,  dont  la 
decision,  apres  les  discussions  prolongees  et  passionnees,  parait 
etre  que  Motanabbi,  malgre  ses  defauts  et  son  inegalite,  est  le 
meilleur  representant  du  gout  et  des  sentiments  des  Arabes 
musulmans,  comme  les  auteurs  des  Moallakat  sont  les  representants 
les  plus  fideles  des  sentiments  des  Arabes  du  desert." 

The  influence  of  al-Mutanabb{  and  one  or  two  other  Arabic 
poets  on  the  early  developments  of  Persian  poetry  was  also,  as 
has  been  pointed  out  by  Kazimirski  in  his  edition  and  transla- 
tion of  the  Dfwan  of  Minuchihrf  (Paris,  1886,  pp.  143  and 
316),  very  great,  and  for  this  reason  alone  his  works  ought  to 
be  read  by  every  serious  student  of  the  origins  of  Persian  poetry. 
The  far-fetched  conceits  and  rhetorical  figures  which  abound 
in  his  verses  will  hardly  appeal  to  many  European  readers 
as  they  do  to  the  poet's  countrymen,  and  at  times  he  gives 
expression  to  ideas  which  to  our  taste  are  grossly  unpoetical ; * 

1  For  a  striking  instance  of  this  see  Dieterici's  edition  of  his  Diwdn 
(Berlin,  1861),  p.  8,  verse  7. 

-25 


3/0         DECLINE  OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

> 

others  of  his  verses,  however,  breathe  the  old  Bedouin  spirit, 
amongst  these  being  the  verse  which,  as  Ibn  Khallikan  says,1 
"caused  his  death."  For,  as  he  was  returning  from  Persia 
with  a  large  sum  of  money  which  had  been  bestowed  on  him 
by  the  Buwayhid  prince  'Adudu'd-Dawla,  he  was  attacked 
near  Kura  by  Arabs  of  the  tribe  of  Asad.  Being  worsted  in 
the  combat,  he  was  preparing  to  take  to  flight  when  his  slave 
cried  to  him  :  "  Let  it  never  be  said  that  you  fled  from  the 
combat,  you  who  are  the  author  of  this  verse  : — 

'  I  am  known  to  the  horse-troop,  the  night  and  the  desert's  expanse, 
Not  more  to  the  paper  and  pen  than  the  sword  and  the  lance  ! ' " 

So  al-Mutanabbf  turned  again  to  the  combat  and  met  his 
death  like  a  true  son  of  the  desert.  The  Arab  pride  of  race 
which  animated  him  is  shown  by  the  following  incident.  One 
day  a  number  of  learned  men  2  were  conversing  in  the  presence 
of  that  illustrious  prince  Sayfu'd-Dawla,  and  the  grammarian 
Ibn  Khalawayh  was  expressing  his  views  on  some  point  of 
Arabic  philology,  when  al-Mutanabbf  interrupted  him,  saying, 
"  Silence,  fellow  !  What  hast  thou  to  do  with  Arabic,  thou 
who  art  a  Persian  of  Khuzistan  ?  " 

More  admirable,  according  to  Western  taste,  than  al- 
Mutanabbi,  though  less  celebrated,  was  his  contemporary  Abu 

Firas,  the  cousin  of  the  above-mentioned   prince 
AHimdlmf     Sayfu'd-Dawla,  to  whose  «  circle  "  also  (along  with 

a  galaxy  of  less  famous  poets  like  an-Nam{,  an- 
Nashf,  az-Zahf,  ar-RafFa4  and  al-Babbagha)  he  belonged. 
Von  Kremer  3  esteems  him  very  highly,  and  concludes  his 
notice  of  him  in  these  words  : — 

"Thus  is  Abu  Firas  the  picture  of  the  stirring  times  in  which  he 
lived  :  in  him  once  again  the  old,  proud,  warlike  spirit  of  antiquity 
was  re-incarnated,  only  the  finer  feelings  being  the  outcome  of  the 


1  See  de  Slane's  translation,  vol.  i,  pp.  105-6.  •  Ibid.,  p.  109. 

s  Culturgeschichte,  vol.  ii,  pp.  381-6. 


AL-MUTANABBt'S  CONTEMPORARIES    371 

later  culture.  The  inner  history  of  Arabic  poetry  ought,  indeed,  to 
conclude  with  him,  had  not  a  greater  and  more  lofty  genius'  stepped 
forth,  who  independently  gave  a  new  and  important  development  to 
the  philosophical  and  speculative  turn  of  thought  first  introduced  by 
Abu'l-'Atahiya." 

Abu  Firas  was  killed  in  battle  in  A.D.  968,  a  year  remarkable 
also  for  the  birth  of  one  of  the  great  mystical  poets  of  Persia, 
Abu  Sa'fd  b.  Abi'l-Khayr,  the  author  of  a  cele- 
brated   collection  of  quatrains.     About  the   same 
time  died  Abu'I-Faraj  of  Isfahan,  the  compiler  ot 
that  vast   thesaurus  of  Arabic  verse  known  as   the    Kit&bul- 
Aghanl  or  "  Book   of  Songs,"  a  work    which  in 
tne  Cairo  edition  comprises  twenty  volumes.     He 
also  was  of  Arab,  and,  as  it  is  asserted,  of  Umayyad 
descent,  and  belonged  to  the  "  circle  "  of  Sayfu'd-Dawla.  About 
A.D.  07 1  died  the  poet  Ibn  Kushdiim,  remarkable 

Ibu  Kushajim  ?'       j-        i  ,     .       ,•    ,  •   •  ... 

for  his  Indian  descent  and  the  high  position  which 

he  held  in  the  Carmathian  government ;  2  and  in  the  same  year 

was  born  the  poet  Abu'1-Fath  al-Bustf,  one  of  the 

AsUUBu^ti'h      earliest  literary  protJgh  of  the  Ghaznawf  dynasty. 

Finally,  the  last  year  of  the  Caliphate  of  al-Mud' 

is  notable  for   the  birth  of  two  very  eminent  men,  the  poet 

AbuVAla  al-Ma'arrf  and  al-Bfrunf. 

We  come  now  to  the  Caliphate  of  at-Td'f  (A.D.  974-991), 
whose  contemporaries  were  the  Samanid  Nuh  II  b.  Mansiir 
(A.D.  976-997)  in  Khurasan,  Qabus  b.  Washmgir 
the     Ziy^rid     (A-°-     976-1012)     in    Tabaristan, 
'Adudu'd-Dawla  in  Fars,   Kirman,  Ahwaz,    and 
Persuamae  th's     Southern  Persia,  and  in  Egypt  the  Fatimid  Anti- 
Caliph  al-'AzIz  Abu  Mansur  Nazar  (A.D.  975- 
996).     About    the    same    time  there   rose    into   prominence 
Sabuktagfn  (A.D.  976-997),  "  the  true  founder  of  the  Ghaz- 
nawi    dynasty,"    as    Stanley    Lane-Poole    says,    whose    son 
Mahmud  achieved  so  mighty  a  renown  as  a  warrior  and  champion 

1  I.e.,  Abu'l-'Ala  al-Ma'arri,  b.  A.D.  973. 
*  See  de  Goeje's  Carmathcs,  pp.  151-2. 


372 

of  Islam.  This  Sabuktagin  was  originally  one  of  the  Turkish 
slaves  of  Alptagm,  himself  in  turn  one  of  the  Turkish  slaves 
and  favourites  of  'Abdu'l-Malik  the  Samanid  ;  and  he  enlarged 
the  little  kingdom  founded  by  his  predecessors  Alptagin  and  his 
two  sons  Ishaq  and  Balkatagin  in  the  fastnesses  of  the  Sulayman 
Mountains  by  the  capture  of  Pi'shawar  from  the  Rajputs,  and 
by  the  acquisition  of  the  government  of  Khurasan  in  A.D.  994 
under  the  nominal  suzerainty  of  the  Samanids. 

In  the  literary  history  of  this  period  we  have  to  notice  first 
the  death  of  the  Persian  poet  Daqiqi  (A.D.  975),  who  began  the 

composition    of  the  Shahndma  which  was  after- 
Literary  history  .       .  . 
of  this  period.—   wards  so  gloriously  completed  by  r  irdawsf.    About 

Daqiqi.  .  '    .  . 

a  year  later  was  composed  a  very  important  Arabic 
work,  now  rendered  accessible  to  all  scholars  in  the  excellent 
edition  of  Van  Vloten  (Leyden,  1895)  named  "  the  Keys  of  the 
Sciences  "  (Mafdtlhul-lUlkm\  by  Abu  'Abdi'llah  Muhammad 

b.  Ahmad  b.  Yusuf  al-Khwarazmi,  which,  in  a 
The  •uirimtlkul~  small  compass,  gives  a  conspectus  of  the  sciences, 

both  indigenous  and  foreign,  known  to  the 
Muslims  of  that  time,  together  with  their  terminology.  About 

the  same  time  Ibn  Hawqal J  re-edited  al-IstakhrTs, 

Ibn-Hawqal.  ...  ."  — — -r-f -—• 

recension    or    the    geography    composed  by  Abu 

Zayd  al-Balkhi,   a   pupil  of  the  philosopher  at-3CindI.     About 

a  year  later  (A.D.  978)  died  the  Arabic    gram- 

At-Si'rafi.  .    •  o/      /-/          i  i  TI 

manan  as-birari,  who   was   not  only   a    rersian 

but  the  son  of  a  Zoroastrian  named  Bihzad.     In  A.D.  980,  was 

born  the  great  philosopher  and  physician  Abu  'AH 

b.  Sfna  (Avicenna),  also  a  Persian.  A  year  later  died 

a    mystic     of    some    note,  Abu    'Abdi'llah    Muhammad    b. 

Khaftf  of  Shiraz.     In  A.D.  982  died  Ibrahim  b.  Hilal  as-Sabf, 

ibn  Khafif  the  one    of    the  heathen    of    Hararn,    whose     great 

mystic.-A?-Sabi.  history  of  tne  Buwayhids,    entitled  Kit&bu't-TAj 

("  the  Book    of   the  Crown "),  has  unfortunately  not    come 

I       *  This  forms  the  second  volume  of  de  Goeje's  Bibliotheca  Geographorum 
Arabicorum  (Leyden,  1873).  <v 

q^"  **"*  ~-^~ 


AL-MUTANABB/'S  CONTEMPORARIES   373 

down  to  us.  This  work  was  written  in  the  highly  artificial 
and  rhetorical  style  which  was  now  coming  into  fashion, 
and  replacing  the  simple,  unvarnished  narratives  of  the 
earlier  historians,  and  which,  as  Brockelmann  points  out,  had 
a  great  influence  on  the  formation  of  the  prose  style  of  the 
more  ambitious  Persian  writers.  Another  writer  of  the  same 
type,  Ibn  Nubata  the  Syrian,  Court  preacher  to 

Ibn  Nubata.         J  J 

Sayfu'd-Dawla,  who  died  in  A.D.  984,  is  still 
read  in  the  East,  where  some  of  his  writings  have  been 

printed.  The  Fatimid  poet  Tamfm  b.  al-Mu'izz 
TanZizz  al~  (t  A.D.  984),  brother  of  the  Anti-Caliph  al-'Azfz, 

in  whose  honour  he  composed  panegyrics,  deserves 
mention.  The  traveller  and  geographer  al-Maqdisf,  or 

al-Muqaddasf,    composed     his    important    work, 

Al-Muqaddasi.  .  ,     .      . .  ,      ,„       .   .        ...          /••/-.,•>,  „ 

entitled  Amanu  t-laqaslmjl  ma'rifatt  l-Aqalim  r  in 

A.D.  985,  a  work  which  has  received  the  highest  tributes  of 

praise  from  several  eminent  Orientalists.3     A  year  later  was 

Ai-Qushayri.     born   al-Qushayrf,    the   author   of  an   important 

treatise  on    Sufiism.       About    A.D.    988   was   composed   the 

u    „.,  . ,    Fihrist.3  or  "Index,"  one  of   the   most   important 

The  Filirtst. 

sources  of  knowledge  for  the  literary  and  religious 
history  of  the  early  Muslim  period,  and  even  for  the  more  ancient 
times  which  preceded  it,  whereof  the  author,  Abu'l  Faraj  Mu- 
hammad b.  Ishaq  an-Nadim  al-Warraq  al-Baghddd{,  died  some 
six  years  later.  Of  his  valuable  work  Brockelmann  speaks  as 
follows  :4  "  His  book,  which  he  named  simply  the  Fihristy  /'.*., 
*  Index,'was  intended  to  include  all  books  in  the  Arabic  language 
available  in  his  time,  whether  original  compositions  or  trans- 
lations. After  an  introduction  on  the  different  kinds  of  scripts, 
he  deals  with  the  revealed  books  of  the  different  religions,  then 

1  This  forms  the  thjrd  volume  of  de  Goeje's  Bibl.  Geogr.  Arab.  (Leyden, 

1877). 

9  See  Von  Kremer's  Culturgeschichte,  vol.  ii,  pp.  429-433,  where  a  long 
extract  from  his  Preface  is  translated. 

3  Edited  with  copious  notes  by  Fliigel  (Leipzig,  1871). 

*  Gesch.  d.  Arab.  Litt.,  p.  in. 


374         DECLINE   OF  THE   CALIPHATE 

with  each  individual  branch  of  Literature,  from  the  Qur'an  and 
the  writings  connected  therewith  down  to  the  Occult  Sciences. 
In  each  section  he  groups  the  individual  writers  in  approxi- 
mately chronological  order,  and  communicates  what  is  known 
to  him  of  their  lives  and  works.  To  this  book  we  owe  many 
valuable  data  for  the  history  of  the  civilisation  and  literature, 
not  only  of  the  Arabs,  but  generally  of  the  whole  of  the  Nearer 
East."  About  the  same  time  (A.D.  088)  was 

History  of  Qum.  i-  1         1     .•          • 

composed  one  of  the  earliest  local  histories  or 
Persia,  a  monograph  on  the  city  of  Qum,  which  is  preserved 
in  a  Persian  translation  (made  in  A.D.  H28),1  though  the 
Arabic  original  is  lost.  The  work  was  dedicated  to  that  great 

patron  of  literature  the   Sdhib  Isma'il  b.  'Abbad 

Tma<iib .--AbSd.  (b-  A-D-  936>  d-  995),  who  was  minister  to  the  two 
Buwayhid  rulers  Mu'ayyidu'd-Dawla  and  Fakhru'd- 
Dawla,  and  who  was  himself  the  author  ot  a  copious  Arabic 
dictionary  called  the  Muhlt  ("  Comprehensive  "),  still  partly, 
preserved,  and  of  a  treatise  on  Prosody  called  the  Iqnd1  ("  Satis- 
faction "),  of  which  a  fine  MS.,  dated  A.M.  559  (=  A.D.  1164), 
formerly  in  the  possession  of  M.  Schefer,  is  now  in  the 
Bibliotheque  Nationale  at  Paris.  Of  the  crowd  of  poets  and 
men  of  letters  whom  the  Sahib's  generosity  drew  round  him 
we  read  in  ath-Tha'alibfs  Yatlmatud-Dahr  (vol.  iii,  pp.  31 
ft  seqq.} ;  to  his  unparalleled  generosity  all  writers  bear 
testimony,  so  that  the  contemporary  poet  Abu  Sa'Id  ar-Rustam{ 
exclaims  in  a  threnody  which  he  composed  on  his  patron's 
death  :  2  "  God  hath  willed  that  the  hopes  of  the  needy  and 
the  gifts  of  the  generous  should  perish  by  the  death  of  Ibn 
'Abbad,  and  that  they  should  never  meet  again  till  the  day  of 
resurrection."  His  love  of  books  was  such  that,  being  invited 
by  the  Samanid  King  Nuh  II  b.  Mansur  to  become  his  prime 
minister,  he  excused  himself  on  this  ground,  amongst  others, 

1  The  MS.  is  in  the  British  Museum,  OR.  3391. 

a  See  the  interesting  notice  of  the  Sahib  given  by  Ibn  Khallikan   (de 
plane's  translation,  vol.  i,  p.  216). 


375 

that  four  hundred  camels  would  be  required  for  the  transport 
of  his  library  alone.1  Poet,  philologist,  patron  of  letters, 
statesman  and  wit,  the  Sahib  stands  out  as  one  of  the  brightest 
ornaments  of  that  liberal  and  enlightened  Buwayhid  dynasty  of 
which,  unfortunately,  our  knowledge  is  so  much  less  complete 
than  we  could  desire. 

Amongst  other  men  of  letters  and  science  belonging  to  this 
period,  we  can  only  mention  the  great  ShI'ite  theologian  Ibn 
Babawayh  (t  A.D.  99 1),2  whose  work  on  jurispru- 
dence   called    Kitabu    man    la    yahduruhu  l-faqih 
("  the  Book  of  him  who  hath  no  lawyer  at  hand  ")  is  still  of  high 
authority   in  Persia  ;  the   physician   'AH  b.  'Abbds  al-Majiisi 
(t   A.D.    QQ4),3  whose  father  was,  as  his   name 

Al-Majusi.         >  . 

implies,  an  adherent  of  the  Zoroastnan  faith  ;  the 

philologist  al-Mubarrad,  author  of  the  celebrated  Kamil ;  4  and 

last,  but  not  least,  the  great  Avicenna  (Abu  'AH  b. 

SIna),    philosopher,  physician,  and    statesman   (t 

A.D.  1037),  who  at  this  time,  being  only  about  seventeen  years 

of  age,  established    his    medical    reputation    by    curing    the 

Samanid  ruler  Nuh  II  b.  Mansur,  whose  favour  and  protection* 

he  thus  secured.     Of  this  great  man  we  shall  have  more  to  say 

in  a  subsequent  chapter. 

We  have  now  brought  our  history  to  the  end  of  the  tenth 
century  of  our  era,  at  which  point  we  may  pause  to  survey, 
before  proceeding  further,  the  scientific  and  literary 
Review  ^f  this  achievements  of  this  period,  its  religious  and  philo- 
sophical   movements,   and    more    particularly  the 
earliest  developments  of  that  revival  of  the  Persian  national 
literature    which   now,  having  once    been    inaugurated,   goes 
forwards  with  ever-increasing  force.    This  period  which  we  are 
discussing  began,  as  we  have  seen,  with  a  Turkish  ascendancy 
fraught  with  peril  alike  to  the  Caliphate  and  to  the  civilisation 

1  Ibid.,  p.  215,  and  the  Yatima,  vol.  Hi,  pp.  35-6. 

2  Brockelmann's  Gesch.  d.  Arab.  Litt^  vol.  i,  p.  187. 

3  Jbid.,  p.  236.  «  Edited  by  Dr.  W.  Wright,  Leipzig,  1864. 


376         DECLINE   OF   THE   CALIPHATE 

of  Isldm,  and  ended  with  the  sudden  rise  to  almost  unlimited 
power  of  another  Turk,  Sultan  Mahmud  of  Ghazna  (succeeded 
to  the  throne,  A.D.  998  ;  died  A.D.  1030),  who, 
MGhTzna.°f  beginning  with  the  small  kingdom  inherited 
from  his  father  Sabuktagin,  overthrew  the  tottering 
House  of  Sdmdn  ;  invaded  India  in  twelve  separate  campaigns 
(A.D.  1001-1024),  wherein  he  slew  innumerable  "idolaters," 
destroyed  many  idol-temples,  and  permanently  annexed  the 
Panjab ;  reduced  Ghur  (A.D.  1012) ;  annexed  Transoxiana 
(A.D.  1016),  and  struck  a  death-blow  at  the  House  of  Buwayh, 
from  whom  he  wrested  Isfahan.  But  between  these  two 
extremes  we  see  Persia,  ever  more  detached  from  the  direct 
control  of  the  Caliph,  divided  between  several  noble  and 
enlightened  dynasties  of  Persian  extraction,  the  Houses  of 
Sdmdn,  Buwayh,  and  Ziyar,  free  once  more  to  develop  on  its 
own  lines  and  to  produce  in  its  native  tongue  a  splendid  and 
extensive  literature. 


CHAPTER  XI 

THE    STATE    OF    MUSLIM    LITERATURE     AND     SCIENCE    AT   THE 
BEGINNING   OF    THE    GHAZNAwi    PERIOD 

IT  seems  desirable  that  at  this  point,  standing,  as  it  were,  on 
the  threshold  of  modern  Persian  literature,  we  should  consider 
in  somewhat  greater  detail  the  state  of  development  attained 
by  the  Science  and  Literature  of  the  Muslims,  which  were  the 
common  heritage  of  all  those  nations  who  had  embraced  Islim. 
Persian  is  often  spoken  of  as  a  very  easy  language,  and  this  is 
true,  so  far  as  the  language  itself  is  concerned  ;  but  to  be  a 
good  Persian  scholar  is  very  difficult,  since  it  involves  a 
thorough  familiarity,  not  only  with  the  Qu'rdn,  the  Traditions 
of  the  Prophet,  and  the  ancient  Persian  legends,  but  with  the 
whole  scientific  and  literary  point  of  view  which  prevailed  in 
the  Muhammadan  East.  This  applies  more  particularly  to 
those  writers  who  lived  before  the  terrible  devastation  wrought 
by  the  Mongol  invasion  of  the  thirteenth  century,  for  never 
after  this  did  the  literature  and  science  of  the  Muslims  reach 
their  old  level,  owing  to  the  wholesale  massacres  and  acts  ot 
incendiarism  perpetrated  by  these  hateful  savages.  The 
scientific  outlook  of  the  later  writers  is  much  more  circum- 
scribed ;  the  Arabic  language  ceased  to  be  generally  used 
throughout  the  realms  of  Islam  ;  and,  owing  to  the  destruction 
of  Baghdad  and  the  Caliphate,  there  was  no  longer  a  metropolis 

377 


378     THE  STATE   OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

of  Culture   and    Learning    to   co-ordinate,    concentrate,  and 
combine  the  intellectual  efforts  of  the  Muslim  world. 

We  possess  fortunately  three  admirable  sources  of  informa- 
tion on  the  range  and  scope  of  the  literature  and  science  of 
Islam  at  the  period  (/.*.,  the  end  of  the  tenth  century  of  our 
era)  of  which  we  are  speaking,  viz.  : — 

(1)  The  Treatises  of  the  Ikhwdnus-Safd,  or  "Brethren  of  Purity," 
that  society  of  encyclopaedists  and  philosophers  of  which  we  have 
already  spoken  in  the  last  chapter. 

(2)  The  Mafdtihu'l-'Uliim,  or  "  Keys  of  the  Sciences,"  composed  in 
A.D.  976  by  Abu  'Abdi'llah  Muhammad    b.  Yusuf  al-Katib  ("  the 
Scribe")  of  Khwarazm,  and  recently  edited  (Leyden,  1895)  by  Van 
Vloten. 

(3)  The  Fihrist,  or  "Index,"  of  Abu'l-Faraj   Muhammad  b.  Ishaq 
al-Warraq   ("  the   Bookseller "  or  "  Copyist ")  of   Baghdad,   better 
known  as  Ibn  Abi  Ya'qub  an-Nadim,  composed  in  A.D.  988,  and 
edited  by  Fliigel  in  1871-2. 

All  these  works  are  written  in  Arabic,  and  are  of  an 
essentially  encyclopaedic  character.  The  two  first  deal  more 
particularly  with  Philosophy  and  Science,  and  the  third  with 
Literature  and  "  Culturgeschichte."  I  propose  to  discuss  them 
in  the  order  given  above,  and  to  give  some  account  of  their 
scope  and  contents. 

I.   The  Treatises  of  the  Ithwdnu's-Safei. 

This  society  of  encyclopaedists  flourished  at  Basra  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  tenth  century  of  our  era,  and  included, 
amongst  the  five  or  six  of  its  members  whose  names  have  come 
down  to  us,  men  from  Bust  in  the  far  east  of  Persia,  Zanjan  in 
the  north-west  of  the  same  country,  and  Jerusalem  ;  while,  of 
the  remaining  three,  one  was  certainly  Persian,  and  the  other 
two  were  probably  of  Arab  extraction.1  This  society  summed 
up  the  philosophical  and  scientific  learning  of  the  time  in  a 
series  of  fifty-one  anonymous  tracts,  written  in  a  popular  style, 

*  For  their  names,   see  Brockelmann's  Gesch,  d.  Arab.  Litt.,  vol.   l, 
pp.  213-214. 


THE  IKHWANU S-SAFA  379 

of  which  a  complete  edition  was  printed  at  Bombay  in  four 
volumes,  comprising  some  1,134  pages,  in  A.H.  1305-6  (A.D. 
1887-9).  Complete  or  partial  translations  of  these  tracts 
(Rasa'il}  exist  in  several  other  Eastern  languages,  viz.,  Persian 
(lith.  Bombay,  A.D.  1884),  Hindustani,  and  Turkish.  For  a 
knowledge  of  their  contents  and  an  exposition  of  their  teach- 
ings we  are  indebted  chiefly  to  the  learned  and  indefatigable 
Dr.  Friedrich  Dieterici  of  Berlin,  who  published  between  1858 
and  1895  seventeen  valuable  monographs  (including  six  texts) 
on  Arabian  Philosophy  in  the  ninth  and  tenth  centuries  of  our 
era,  with  especial  reference  to  the  Ikhwanus-Safa.  The  fifty- 
one  tracts  published  by  this  fraternity  covered  the  whole  ground 
of  Philosophy,  as  understood  by  its  members,  pretty  exhaustively. 
But  of  course  the  aspirant  after  philosophical  knowledge  was 
supposed  to  be  already  well  grounded  in  the  ordinary  subjects 
of  study,  which  are  thus  enumerated  by  Dieterici  * : — 

I.  Mundane  Studies. 

1.  Reading  and  Writing. 

2.  Lexicography  and  Grammar. 

3.  Calculation  and  Computation. 

4.  Prosody  and  the  Poetic  Art. 

5.  The  Science  of  Omens  and  Portents. 

6.  The  Science  of  Magic,  Amulets,  Alchemy,  and  Legerdemain. 

7.  Trades  and  Crafts. 

8.  Buying  and  Selling,  Commerce,  Agriculture,  and  Cattle-farming. 

9.  Biography  and  Narrative. 

II.  Religious  Studies. 

1.  Knowledge  of  the  Scripture  (i.e.,  the  Qur'dri). 

2.  Exegesis  of  the  Scripture. 

3.  The  Science  of  Tradition. 

4.  Jurisprudence. 

5.  The  Commemoration  of  God,  Admonition,  the  Ascetic  Life, 
Mysticism  (Sufiism),  and  the  Ecstatic  or  Beatific  Vision. 

The  philosophic  studies  properly  so  called  include — 

1  Einleitung  und  Makrokosmos  (Leipzig,  1876),  pp.  124  et  scqq.,  and  the 
preface  to  the  text  of  the  Abhandluiigcit  dcr  Ichwiiu  is  Safd  (Leipzig,  1886), 
pp.  vi-vii. 


380     THE  STATE   OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

III.  Philosophic  Studies. 

(i)  Mathematics,  Logic,  &c.  (ar-Riyddiyydi  iva'l-Mantiqiyydt  =  r<i 
irpoTraiSevTiKa  KOI  rd  \oyiicci),  discussed  in  Tracts  i-xiii  (=  vol.  i),  which 
treat  of  such  things  as  Number,  Geometry,  Astronomy,  Geography, 
Music,  Arithmetical  and  Geometrical  Relation,  Arts  and  Crafts, 
Diversity  of  Human  Character,  the  haaywyrj,  the  Categories,  the 

lp/n)ve.VTiKa,  and  the  ava\VTiKa. 

(ii)  Natural  Science  and  Anthropology  (at-Tabi'iyydt  wa'l-Insdniyydt 
=  rd  QVVIKO.  KCU  rd  di^pwiroXoyiKa),  discussed  in  Tracts  xiv-xxx 
(=  vol.  ii),  which  treat  of  Matter,  Form,  Space,  Time,  and  Motion  ; 
Cosmogony  ;  Production,  Destruction,  and  the  Elements  ;  Meteoro- 
logy ;  Mineralogy  ;  the  Essence  of  Nature  and  its  Manifestations ; 
Botany  ;  Zoology  ;  Anatomy  and  Anthropology  ;  Sense-perceptions  ; 
Embryology  ;  Man  as  the  Microcosm  ;  the  Development  of  the  Soul 
(Psychical  Evolution) ;  Body  and  Soul ;  the  true  nature  of  Psychical 
and  Physical  Pain  and  Pleasure ;  Diversity  of  Languages  (Philo- 
logy). 

(iii)  Pyschology  (an-Nafsdniyydt  =  r&  T^VXIKO),  discussed  in  Tracts 
xxxi-xl  (=  vol.  iii),  which  treat  of  the  Understanding,  the  World- 
Soul,  &c. 

(iv)  Theology  (al-Ildhiyydt  =  TO.  OtoXoyiicd),  discussed  in  Tracts 
xli-li,  which  treat  of  the  ideals  and  methods  of  the  Ikhwdnu's-Safd  ; 
the  Esoteric  Doctrine  of  Islam  ;  the  Ordering  of  the  Spirit  World  ; 
the  Occult  Sciences. 

The  Ikhwdnu's-Safd  were  essentially  synthetical  and  en- 
cyclopaedic, seeking,  as  Dieterici  says  (Makrokosmos,  p.  iv),  "to 
correlate  all  the  materials  of  knowledge,  so  far  as  these  had 
reached  them ;  and  to  construct  a  synthetic  view  of  the 
material  and  spiritual  worlds  which  would  guarantee  an  answer 
to  all  questions,  conformable  to  the  standpoint  of  the  Culture 
of  that  time."  In  general  the  topics  discussed  by  them  may 
be  divided,  according  to  Dieterici's  plan,  into — 

(i)  The  Macrocosm,  or  the  Development  of  the  Universe  as  the 
Evolution  of  Plurality  out  of  Unity,  an  Evolution  by  Emanation  from 
God  through  Intelligence,  Soul,  Primal  Matter,  Secondary  Matter, 
the  World,  Nature,  and  the  Elements  to  the  final  Products,  or 
"Threefold  Progeny,"  i.e.,  the  Animal,  Vegetable,  and  Mineral 
Kingdoms. 

(ii)  The  Microcosm  (Man),  or  the  Return  ("  Remanatio ")  from 
Plurality  to  Unity. 


THE  IKHWANU  S-SAFA  381 

The  general  character  of  their  system  was  a  "  combination 
of  Semitic  Monotheism  with  Neo-Platonism,"  so  that  in  a 
sense  Philo-Judaeus  may,  I  suppose,  be  regarded  as  their 
prototype.  To  this  synthesis  they  were  impelled,  as  Dieterici 
implies  (Makrokosmos,  pp.  86-88),  by  a  conviction  of  the  unity 
of  all  truth,  religious,  philosophical,  and  scientific.  Co-ordi- 
nating all  the  sciences  known  to  them  with  this  view  and  for 
.this  object,  they  studied  each  not  only  for  its  own  sake,  but 
in  its  relation  to  Truth  as  a  whole,  and  endeavoured  to 
embody  their  conceptions  in  an  intelligible,  attractive,  and 
even  popular  form,  to  which  end  they  made  extensive  use  (as 
in  their  celebrated  apologue  of  the  Beasts  and  Man]  of  simile, 
allegory,  and  parable.  In  their  prehistoric  and  scientific 
conceptions  they  were  most  influenced  by  Aristotle  as  regards 
Logic  and  Natural  Science,  by  the  Neo-Pythagoreans  and 
Neo-Platonists  in  their  theories  of  Numbers  and  Emanations, 
by  Ptolemy  in  their  ideas  of  Natural  History,  and  by  Galen  in 
Anthropology  and  Medicine,  the  whole  synthesis  being  in- 
formed by  a  strong  Pantheistic  Idealism.1  They  believed  that 
perfection  was  to  be  reached  by  a  combination  of  the  Greek 
Philosophy  with  the  Arabian  Religious  Law.2  They  were  the 
successors  of  al-Kindi  and  al-Farabf,  and  the  predecessors  of 
the  Great  Avicenna,  with  whom,  as  Dieterici  obsetyes,3  "  the 
development  of  Philosophy  in  the  East  came  to  an  end." 
From  the  East  this  system,  the  so-called  "Arabian  Philosophy," 
passed  to  the  Moors  in  Spain  ;  whence,  after  undergoing  further 
development  at  the  hands  of  Averroes  (Ibn  Rushd,  t  A.D. 
1135),  it  became  diffused  in  Europe,  and  gave  rise  to  the 
Christian  Scholastic  Philosophy,  to  which,  according  to 
Dieterici,4  it  rendered  the  greatest  service  in  restoring  the 
Aristotelian  element,  which,  in  the  earlier  systems  of  Christian 
philosophy,  had  been  almost  ousted  by  the  Neo-Platonist 
element. 

1  Dieterici,  Makrokosmos,  pp.  138-140. 

'  Ibid.,  p.  146.  3  ibid.,  p.  159.  <  Ibid.,  p.  159. 


382     THE  STATE   OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

II.    The  MafitlMl-'Ulhm. 

Turning  now  to  the  Mafatlhul-iUlum,  we  find  the  sciences 
primarily  divided  into  two  great  groups,  the  indigenous  or 
Arabian,  and  the  exotic,  which  are  for  the  most  part  Greek  or 
Persian. 

i.  The  Indigenous  Sciences. 

1.  Jurisprudence  (fiqh),  discussed  in  n  sections,  including  First 
Principles  (usul),  and  Applications  (furu'),  such  as  Legal  Purity ; 
Prayer  ;  Fasting ;  Alms ;  Pilgrimage ;  Buying  and  Selling ;  Marriage  ; 
Homicide,  Wounding,  Retaliation,  Compensation,  and  Blood-wit,  &c. 

2.  Scholastic   Philosophy  (kaldm),  discussed   in  7    sections,   in- 
cluding its  subject-matter ;  the  various  schools  and  sects  of  Muslims, 
Christians,    Jews,    and    Gentiles     (Persians,    Indians,    Chaldaeans, 
Manichceans,  Marcionites,  Bardesanians,  Mazdakites,  Sophists,  &c.) ; 
Arabian  heathenism,  and  the  First  Principles  of  Religion  discussed 
and  established  by  this  science. 

3.  Grammar  (nahw),  discussed  in  12  sections. 

4.  The  Secretarial  Art  (kitdbat),  discussed  in  8  sections  ;  including 
explanations  of  all  the  technical  terms  employed  in  the  various 
Government  offices. 

5.  Prosody  ('arud)  and   the    Poetic   Art  (shi'r),   discussed  in   5 
sections. 

6.  History    (akhbdr),    discussed    in  9    sections  ;    especially    the 
history  of  Ancient  Persia,  Muhammadan  history,  pre-Muhammadan 
history  of  Arabia,  especially  Yaman,  and  the  history  of  Greece  and 
Rome.  ^ 

ii.  The  Exotic  Sciences. 

7.  Philosophy  (falsa fa),  discussed  in  3  sections,  including  its  sub- 
divisions and  terminology ;   the  derivation  of  the  word  (correctly 
explained  from  the  Greek) ;  and  the  proper  position  in  relation  to 
it  of  Logic  (inan[iq),  the  Natural  Sciences  (Medicine,  Meteorology, 
Mineralogy,  Botany,  Zoology,  and  Alchemy),  and  the  Mathematical 
Sciences,  Geometry,  Astronomy,  Music,  &c.). 

8.  Logic  (mantiq),  discussed  in  9  sections. 

9.  Medicine  (tibb),  discussed  in  8  sections,  including  Anatomy, 
Pathology,  -Materia  Medica  and  Therapeutics,  Diet,  Weights  and 
Measures,  &c. 

10.  Arithmetic  (arithmdtiqi,  'ilmu'l-'adad,  hisdb),  discussed    in   5 
sections,  including  the  elements  of  Algebra. 

. —  ii.  Geometry  (handasa,  jumetriya),  discussed  in  4  sections. 

-V-  12.  Astronomy   ('ilmu'n-nujiim),  discussed  in  4  sections,  treating 


DOCTOR 

THE  FiHRis'JARO  6W 


of  the  names  of  the  Planets  and  Fixed  Stars  ;  the  composition  of  the 
Universe  according  to  the  Ptolemaic  system  ;  Judicial  Astrology ; 
and  the  instruments  and  apparatus  used  by  astronomers. 

13.  Music  (musiqi),  discussed  in  3  sections  ;  including  an  account 
of  the  various  musical  instruments  and  their  names,  and  musical 
notation  and  terminology. 

-  14.  Mechanics  ('ilmtt'l-hiyal ;  "the  Science  of  Devices"),  in  2 
sections,  including  Hydrostatics. 

15.  Alchemy  (kimiyd),  in  3  sections,  including  an  account  of  the 
apparatus,  the  substances,  and  the  processes  used  by  those  who 
practice  it. 

III.  The  Fihrht. 

The  Fihristtor  "Index,"  of  Muhammad  b.  Ishdq  an-Nadim 
is  one  of  the  most  remarkable  and  valuable  works  in  the  Arabic 
language  which  has  survived  to  our  days.  Manuscripts  of  it 
are  rare,  and  more  or  less  defective.  Fliigel's  edition  is  based 
on  two  Paris  MSS.  (of  which  the  more  ancient  codex  con- 
tains the  first  four  of  the  ten  MaqalAt  or  "  Discourses " 
into  which  the  book  is  divided,  and  the  more  modern,  trans- 
cribed for  de  Slane  in  Constantinople,  presumably  from  the 
MSS.  numbered  1134  and  1135  in  the  Kupriilii-z&de'  Library, 
the  latter  portion  of  the  work,  from  the  fifth  section  of  the 
fifth  discourse  onwards) ;  two  Vienna  MSS.,  both  incorrect 
and  incomplete ;  the  Leyden  MS.,  which  contains  only 
Maqdlas  vii-x  ;  and  two  Leyden  fragments.1  Sprenger 
hazarded  a  conjecture  that  the  work  was  in  reality  a 
Catalogue  rahonne  of  some  large  library,  but  this  view  is 
rejected  by  Brockelmann.2 

Be  this  as  it  may,  I  know  of  no  Arabic  book  which  inspires 
me  at  once  with  so  much  admiration  for  the  author's  enormous 
erudition,  and  so  much  sadness  that  sources  of  knowledge  at 
once  so  numerous  and  so  precious  as  were  available  when  he 
wrote  should,  for  the  most  part,  have  entirely  perished.  Of 
authors  who  are  known  to  us  only  by  a  few  small  fragments, 

1  See  pp.  xvi-xix  of  the  Preface  to  Fliigel's  edition. 
•  Gesch.  d.  arab.  Lift.,  vol.  i,  p.  147. 


384     THE  STATE  OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

he  enumerates  dozens  or  scores  of  works,  but  even  these  are 
the  fortunate  few,  for  the  majority  are  known  to  us  only  or 
chiefly  by  his  notices.  His  preface  is  such  a  model  of  con- 
ciseness, such  a  pleasing  contrast  to  the  empty  rhetoric  which 
disfigures,  as  a  rule,  at  any  rate  the  opening  pages  of  most 
later  Arabic  and  Persian  works,  that  I  cannot  forbear  translating 
it  here. 

"  Lord,  help  man  by  Thy  Mercy  to  reach  upwards  beyond  pre- 
liminaries to  conclusions,  and  to  win  to  the  aim  in  view  without 
prolixity  of  words !    And  therefore  have  we  limited 
Translation  of    ourselves  to  these  words  at  the  beginning  of  this  our 

Preface  to  the     _.      .  .         .,     ,    ..  ri,    .       ..      .     ,.  .  . 

Fihrist.  Book,  seeing  that  they  sufficiently  indicate  our  object 
in  compiling  it,  if  it  please  God.  Therefore  we  say 
(and  in  God  do  we  seek  help,  and  of  Him  do  we  pray  a  blessing  on 
all  His  Prophets  and  His  servants  who  are  single-hearted  in  their 
allegiance  to  Him  :  and  there  is  no  strength  and  no  power  save  in 
God,  the  Supreme,  the  Mighty) : — This  is  the  Index  of  the  books  of 
all  peoples  of  the  Arabs  and  non-Arabs  whereof  somewhat  exists  in 
the  language  and  script  of  the  Arabs,  on  all  branches  of  knowledge  ; 
together  with  accounts  of  their  compilers  and  the  _classes  of  their 
authors,  and  the  genealogies  of  these,  the  dates  of  their  births,  the 
extent  of  their  lives,  the  times  of  their  deaths,  the  location  of  their 
countries,  and  their  virtues  and  vices,  from  the  time  when  each 
science  was  first  discovered  until  this  our  age,  to  wit  the  year 
three  hundred  and  seventy-seven  of  the  Flight  (=»  A.D.  987-8)." 

The  author  then  immediately  proceeds  to  summarise  the 
contents  of  his  book  in  the  following  epitome  : — 

First  Discourse,  in  three  Sections. 

Section  i.  Describing  the  languages  of  the  different  peoples, 

Arab    and    non-Arab,    the    characteristics    of     their 

Contents  of  the   wrjtings,  the  varieties  of  their  scripts,  and  the  forms 

Fihnst. 

of  their  written  character. 

Section  ii.  On  the  names  of  the  Books  of  the  Law  (i.e.,  the 
Scriptures)  revealed  to  the  different  sects  of  Muslims  (i.e., 
Jews,  Christians,  and  Sabeans)*  and  the  different  sects  of 
those  who  follow  them. 


1  Isldm  means  the  submitting  or  resigning  of  one's  self  to  God's  will, 
and  in  the  wider  sense  the  term  Muslim  includes  the  faithful  followers  of 


THE  FIERI ST  385 

Section  in.  Describing  the  Book  "which  falsehood  approacheth 
not  from  before  nor  from  behind,  a  Revelation  from  One 
Wise  and  Laudable  "  ; '  and  the  names  of  the  books  com- 
posed on  the  sciences  connected  therewith,  with  notices 
of  the  Readers,  and  the  names  of  those  who  handed 
down  their  traditions,  and  the  anomalies  of  their 
readings. 

Second  Discourse,  in   three   Sections,   on   the   Grammarians  and 
Philologists. 

Section  i.  On  the  Origin  of  Grammar,  with  accounts  of  the 
grammarians  of  the  School  of  Basra,  and  the  Stylists  of 
the  Arabs,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 

Section  ii.  Account  of  the  Grammarians  and  Philologists  of  the 
School  of  Kufa,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 

Section  Hi.  Account  of  a  school  of  Grammarians  who  strove  to 
combine  the  views  of  the  two  schools  (above  mentioned), 
and  the  names  of  their  books. 

Third  Discourse,  in   three   sections,  on   History,   Belles   Lettres, 
Biography,  and  Genealogies. 

Section  i.  Account  of  the  Historians,  Narrators,  Genealogists, 
Biographers,  and  Chroniclers,  and  the  names  of  their 
books. 

Section  ii.  Account  of  the  Kings,  Secretaries,  Preachers, 
Ambassadors,  Chancellors,  and  Government  Officials 
(who  composed  books),  and  the  names  of  their  books. 

Section  Hi.  Account  of  the  Courtiers,  Favourites,  Minstrels, 
Jesters,  and  Buffoons  (who   composed   books),  and  the 
names  of  their  books. 
Fourth  Discourse,  in  two  sections,  on  Poetry  and  Poets. 

Section  i.  On  the  groups  of  the  Heathen  Poets,  and  such  of  the 
Muslim  poets  as  reached  back  to  the  Pagan  Period  (of 
the  Arabs),  and  of  those  who  collected  their  diwdns,  and 
the  names  of  those  who  handed  down  their  poems  (till 
they  were  collected  and  edited). 

Section  ii.  On  the  groups  of  the  Muslim  Poets,  including  the 
modem  poets  down  to  this  our  time. 


each  prophet  recognised  by  the  Muhammadans  down  to  the  close  of  his 
dispensation.  Thus  Abraham  taught  the  faith  of  Islam,  and  Bilqis,  Queen 
of  Sheba,  on  her  conversion,  "  becomes  a  Muslim  with  Solomon  the  son 
of  David." 

1  i.e.,  the  Qur'an,  whence  (xli,  42)  this  phrase  is  taken. 

26 


386     THE  STATE   OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

Fifth  Discourse,  in  five  sections,  on  the  Scholastic  Philosophy  and 
the  School-men. 
Section  i.  On  the  origin  of  the  Scholastic  Philosophy,  and  of 

the  School-men  of  the  Mu'tazilites  and  Murjites,  and  the 

names  of  their  books. 
Section  ii.  Account  of  the  School-men  of  the  Shi'ites,  whether 

Imamis,  Zaydis,  or  other  of  the  Extremists  (Ghuldf)  and 

Isma'ilis,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  Hi.  On  the  School-men  of  the  Predestinarians  and  the 

Hashwiyya,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  iv.  Account  of  the  School-men  of  the  Kharijites,  their 

classes,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  v.  Account  of  the  wandering  mendicants,  recluses, 

devotees,  and  Sufis,  who  taught  a  scholastic  philosophy 

based  on  their  fancies  and  reveries,  and  the  names  of 

their  books. 

Sixth  Discourse,   in    eight    sections,  on   Jurisprudence,   and    the 
Jurisconsults  and  Traditionists. 
Section  i.  Account  of  Malik  and  his  disciples,  and  the  names 

of  their  books. 
Section  ii.  Account  of  Abu  Hanifa  an-Nu'man  and  his  disciples, 

and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  Hi.  Account  of  the  Imam  ash-Shafi'i  and  his  disciples, 

and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  iv.  Account  of  Da'ud  b.  'All  .  .  b.  Khalaf  al-Isfahani 

and  his  disciples,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  v.  Account  of  the  Shi'ite  Jurisconsults,  and  the  names 

of  their  books. 
Section  vi.  Account  of  the  Jurisconsults  who  were  at  the  same 

time  Traditionists  and  transmitters  of  Tradition,  and  the 

names  of  their  books. 
Section  vii.  Account  of  Abu  Ja'far  at-Tabari,  and  his  disciples, 

and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  viii.  Account  of  the  Kharijite  Jurisconsults,  and  the 

names  of  their  books. 

Seventh  Discourse,  in  three  sections,  on  Philosophy  and  the  Ancient 
Sciences. 
Section  i.  Account  of  the  Materialist   Philosophers  and   the 

Logicians,  and  the  names  of  their  books  and  the  versions 

and  commentaries  of  these,  alike  such  as  still  exist,  and 

such  as  are  mentioned  but  are  no  longer  extant,  and  such 

as  were  extant  but  are  now  lost. 
Section  ii.  Account  of    the    Mathematicians,    Geometricians, 


THE  FIHRIST  387 

Arithmeticians,  Musicians,  Accountants,  and  Astrono- 
mers, and  the  makers  of  [scientific]  instruments,  and  the 
Mechanics  and  Engineers. 

Section  Hi.  On  the  origins  of  Medicine,  with  accounts  of  the 
physicians  amongst  the  Ancients  and  the  Moderns,  and 
the  names  of  their  books,  with  their  versions  and 
commentaries. 

Eighth  Discourse,  in  three  sections,  on  Legends,  Fables,  Charms, 
Magic,  and  Conjuring. 

Section  i.  Account  of  the  Story-tellers,  Saga-men  and  Artists, 
and  the  names  of  the  books  composed  on  Legends  and 
Fables. 
Section  ii.  Account  of  the   Charm-mongers,  Conjurors  and 

Magicians,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 
Section  Hi.  On    books    composed    on    divers    other    topics, 

whereof  the  authors  and  compilers  are  unknown. 
Ninth  Discourse,  in  two  sections,  on  Sects  and  Creeds. 

Section  i.  Describing  the  Sects  of  the  Harranian  Chaldneans, 
called  in  our  time  Sabaeans,  and  the  Sects  of  Dualists, 
whether  Manichaeans,  Bardesanians,  Khurramis,  Mar- 
cionites,  Mazdakites,  and  others,  and  the  names  of  their 
books. 

Section  ii.  Describing  sundry  strange  and  curious  sects,  such 
as  those  of  India  and  China,  and  others  of  other  like 
peoples. 

Tenth  Discourse,  containing  accounts  of  the  Alchemists  and  seekers 
after  the  Philosopher's  Stone  amongst  the  Ancient-and  Modern 
Philosophers,  and  the  names  of  their  books. 


Besides  these  three  books  there  is  another  and  earlier  work, 
the  Kitdbul-Ma^rif  of  Ibn  Qutayba  (t  circ.  A.D.  889),  of 
which  the  text  was  published  at  Gottingen  by  the  indefa- 
tigable Wustenfeld  in  1850,  which  gives  us  a  good  idea  of  the 
historical  and  biographical  knowledge  deemed  necessary  for  all 
who  had  any  pretensions  to  be  fairly  well  read.  In  this  book 
the  author  treats  of  the  following  subjects  :  the  Creation 
(pp.  6-10)  ;  Sacred  History,  giving  a  brief  account  of  the 
Patriarchs  and  Prophets  (including  not  only  those  mentioned 
in  the  Old  Testament,  but  others,  such  as  Hud  and  Salih, 
mentioned  in  the  Qur'dn),  and  Christ  (pp.  10-27)  j  Profane 


388     THE   STATE   OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

History,  including  the  chronology  and  racial  divisions  of  man- 
kind, the  names  of  the  true  believers  amongst  the  Arabs  before 
the  Mission  of  the  Prophet,  the  Genealogies  of  the  Arabs 
(pp.  28-56)  ;  the  Genealogy  and  Kinsfolk  of  the  Prophet, 
including  his  wives,  children,  clients,  and  horses,  the  history  of 
his  Mission,  wars,  triumph,  and  death  (pp.  56-83)  ;  the  History 
of  the  Four  Orthodox  Caliphs  (pp.  83-106),  of  'AH's  sons,  of 
Zubayr,  Talha,  'Abdu'r-Rahman  b.  <Awf,  Sa'd  b.  Ab(  Waqqas 
and  other  eminent  Muslims  of  early  times,  concluding  with  a 
brief  list  of  "the  Hypocrites"  (pp.  106-174)  ;  History  of  the 
Umayyads,  and  of  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs  down  to  al-Mu'tamid, 
in  whose  time  the  author  wrote  (pp.  175—200)  ;  biographies 
of  famous  statesmen,  officers,  and  governors  of  the  Muham- 
madan  Empire,  and  of  notable  rebels  (pp.  201-215)  ; 
biographies  of  the  Tabi'-un  or  successors  of  the  "  Companions  " 
of  the  Prophet  (pp.  216-248)  ;  biographies  of  the  chief  doctors 
and  teachers  of  Isldm,  of  the  founders  of  its  principal  schools  of 
thought,  of  the  traditionists,  "readers"  of  the  Qur'ari, 
genealogists  and  historians,  grammarians  and  transmitters  of 
verse,  &c.,  of  the  principal  mosques,  of  the  early  conquests  of 
the  Muslims  and  other  matters  concerning  them,  and  of  the 
chief  outbreaks  of  plague  and  pestilence  (pp.  248-293) ; 
account  of  the  great  "Days"  (*'.£.,  the  famous  battles)  of  the 
Arabs,  of  those  amongst  them  whose  names  became  a  proverb, 
of  their  religions  before  the  time  of  Islam,  of  the  chief  sects  in 
Islam,  and  of  the  manner  in  which  certain  peoples  (e.g.^  the 
Kurds  and  Jews)  came  by  their  names  (pp.  293-304)  ;  and 
histories  of  the  Kings  of  Yaman,  Syria  (Ghassanids),  Hira,  and 
Persia,  from  the  time  of  Jamshid  to  the  end  of  the  Sdsanian 
dynasty  (pp.  304-330). 

It  will  be  seen  from  what  has  been  said  above  how  wide  a 
range  of  knowledge  is  required  to  enable  the  student  of 
Muhammadan  literature  fully  to  understand  and  appreciate 
all  the  allusions  which  he  will  meet  with  even  in  the  poets, 


EQUIPMENT  OF  PERSIAN  STUDENT    389 

especially  those  who  lived  in  the  palmy  days  of  the  Caliphate. 
And  apart  from  this  general  knowledge,  and  a  thorough  under- 
standing of  the  language  (whether  Persian  or  Arabic)  which 
constitutes  the  vehicle  of  utterance,  he  must,  in  order  to 
derive  the  fullest  pleasure  from  the  poetry  of  these  nations, 
possess  a  considerable  amount  of  technical  knowledge,  not  only 
of  Prosody  and  Grammar,  but  of  the  various  branches  of 
Rhetoric  ^Ilmul-Mdi&nl  wal-Bayan,  "  the  Science  of  Ideas 
and  their  Expression ")  and  Euphuism  (fllmul-  "BadityF^  so 
that  he  may  at  once  recognise  and  appreciate  the  various  tropes, 
similes,  metaphors,  inuendos,  hyperboles,  antitheses,  quotations, 
aetiologies,  amphibologies,  homonomies,  anagrams,  and  the 
like,  which  he  will  come  across  at  every  turn,  especially  in  the 
qafldas,  or  panegyrics,  to  which  most  of  the  older  Persian  poets 
devoted  so  large  a  portion  of  their  energies  and  talents,  for  the 
reason  that  they  were  for  the  most  part  Court  poets,  and 
wrote  not  for  the  general  public  but  for  their  patrons,  on 
whose  liberality  they  depended  for  their  livelihood.  This  is 
why  many  of  those  poets,  such  as  'Unsurf,  Farrukhf,  Khaqdnf, 
Anwarf,  Dhahfr  of  Faryab,  and  the  like,  whom  the  Persians 
reckon  amongst  their  greatest,  could  never,  no  matter  with 
what  skill  they  might  be  translated,  appeal  to  the  European 
reader,  whose  sympathies  will  rather  be  won  by  the  epic,  lyric, 
didactic,  mystic,  satiric  or  pessimist  poets,  such  as  Firdawsl, 
Hafidh,  Sa'df,  Nasir-i-Khusraw,  <Atrar,  Jalalu'd-Dm  Rumf, 
'Ubayd-i-Zdkanf,  and  'Umar  Khayydm,  each  of  whom,  in  a 
different  way,  appeals  to  some  ground  common  to  all 
mankind. 

In  spite  of  the  excellent  works  on  the  Prosody  and  Rhetoric 
of  the  Persians  by  Gladwin,  Riickert,  Blochmann,  and  other 
scholars,  I  might  perhaps  have  thought  it  desirable  to  speak  at 
greater  length  on  these  subjects  had  it  not  been  for  the  masterly 
Prolegomena  prefixed  by  my  lamented  friend  Mr.  E.  J.  W. 
Gibb  (whose  death  on  December  5,  1901,  after  a  short  illness, 
at  the  early  age  of  forty-four,  has  inflicted  an  incalculable  loss 


390     THE  STATE  OF  MUSLIM  LITERATURE 

on  Oriental  scholarship)  to  the  first  volume  of  his  great  History 
of  Ottoman  Poetry  (London  :  Luzac  &  Co.,  1900).  Nearly 
twenty  years  ago  we  spent  several  weeks  together  in  London, 
studying  Persian  and  Turkish,  and  cultivating  the  society  of 
various  educated  and  intelligent  Muslims,  chiefly  Persians,  who 
happened  at  that  time  to  be  resident  in  the  metropolis.  Of  these 
the  late  Mfrza  Muhammad  Baqir  of  Bawanat  in  Fars,  whose 
personality  I  attempted  to  depict  in  the  Introductory  Chapter 
of  my  Tear  amongst  the  Persians  (London  :  A.  and  C.  Black, 
1893),  was  beyond  question  the  most  talented  and  original. 
From  that  time  till  his  death  Gibb  and  I  were  in  frequent 
communication,  and  the  hours  which  I  was  able  from  time  to 
time  to  spend  with  him  in  his  study  in  London  were  amongst 
the  happiest  and  most  profitable  of  my  life.  Within  the  last 
few  months  it  has  been  my  sad  duty  to  examine  his  books, 
manuscripts,  and  papers,  to  catalogue  the  rare  and  precious 
volumes  which  he  had  so  sedulously  sought  out  from  the  East, 
and  to  set  in  order  the  unpublished  portions  of  the  great  work 
to  which  his  life  was  devoted.  High  as  was  the  opinion  I  had 
already  formed  of  the  first  volume  of  his  book,  which  alone  has 
yet  been  published,  I  should  never  have  realised  the  labour  it 
had  cost  him,  or  the  extent  of  his  reading,  his  fine  scholarship 
and  his  critical  judgment,  had  I  not  obtained  the  insight  into 
his  work  which  this  examination  gave  me  ;  and  I  should  be 
happy  to  think  that  I  could  ever  produce  half  so  fine  a  work  on 
Persian  poetry  as  he  has  done  on  Turkish.  The  Prolegomena 
at  least  of  this  great  book  should  be  read  by  every  student  of 
Muhammadan  Literature. 


CHAPTER  XII 

RELIGIOUS   MOVEMENTS   OF   THIS   PERIOD 

I.  THE   ISMA'ILIS  AND   CARMATHIANS,  OR  THE  "  SECT  OF 
THE  SEVEN." 

THE  religious  and  political  position  assumed  by  the  ShPa,  or 
"  Faction  "  of  'Ali  ibn  Abi  Talib,  has  been  already  discussed 
at  some  length,  together  with  the  causes  which  rendered  it 
specially  attractive  to  the  Persians.  In  this  chapter  we  shall 
have  to  examine  one  of  the  developments  of  this  school  of 
thought,  which,  though  at  the  present  day  of  comparatively 
little  importance,  played  a  great  part  in  the  history  of  the 
Muhammadan  world  down  to  the  Mongol  Invasion  in  the 
thirteenth  century,  and  to  which,  therefore,  we  shall  have  to 
refer  repeatedly  in  the  subsequent  portion  of  this  work. 

The  Shi'a  agree  generally  in  their  veneration  for  'AH  and 
their  rejection  of  his  three  predecessors,  Abu  Bakr,  'Umar,  and 
'Uthman,  and  in  their  recognition  of  the  Imams  of  the  House 
of  'AH  as  the  chosen  representatives  of  God,  supernaturally 
gifted  and  divinely  appointed  leaders,  whose  right  to  the 
allegiance  of  the  faithful  is  derived  directly  from  Heaven,  not 
from  any  election  or  agreement  of  the  Church  (Ijmd'-i-sunnat). 
Briefly  they  may  be  described  as  the  supporters  of  the  | 
principle  of  Divine  Right  as  opposed  to  the  principle  of 
Democratic  Election. 

Further,  as   we   have   already  seen,  most  of  the  ShI'ites 

391 


392  THE  ISMAlLi  SECT 

(especially  those  of  Persia)  attached  great  importance  to  the 
fact  that  all  their  Imams  subsequent  to  'All  (who  was  the 
Prophet's  cousin)  were  descended  also  from  Fatima  (the 
Prophet's  daughter),  and  hence  were  the  direct  and  lineal 
descendants  of  the  Prophet  himself ;  and  to  the  alleged  fact 
(see  pp.  130-134  and  229  supra]  that  all  the  Imdms  subsequent 
to  al-Husayn  (the  third)  were  also  the  lineal  descendants  of  the 
Sasanians,  the  old  Royal  Family  of  Persia. 

There  were,  however,  other  sects  of  the  ShJ'a  (Kaysaniyya 

and  Zaydiyya)  who  recognised  as  Imams  descendants  not  only 

of  al-Husayn's  brother  al-Hasan  (Imams,  that  is  to  say,  who 

made  no  claim  of  descent  from  the  House  of  Sasan)  but  of  his 

half-brother  Muhammad  Ibnu'l-Hanafiyya    ("the  son  of  the 

Hanafite  woman "),  who  were  not  children  of  Fitima,1  and 

hence  were  not  the  direct  descendants  of  the  Prophet.     These 

sects,  however,  seem,  as  a  rule,  to    have  had  comparatively 

little  hold   in  Persia  save  in  Tabaristan  (where,  as  we  have 

seen,  a  dynasty  of  "Zaydite"  Imams  flourished  from  A.D.  864 

to  928),  and  need  not  further  claim  our  attention,  which  must 

rather  be  concentrated  on  the  Imdmiyya,  or  Imamites  proper, 

and  its  two  great  branches,  the  "  Sect  of  the  Twelve  "  (Ithna- 

lashariyya\  which  prevails  in   Persia  to-day,  and  the  "  Sect  of 

the  Seven  "  (Sab'iyya)  or  Isma'ilis,  with  its  various  branches, 

including  the  notorious  Assassins  (Maldhida^  or  "  heretics  "par 

excellence,  as  they  were  generally  called  by  their  opponents  in 

-.  Persia),  who  will  form  the  subject  of  a  later  chapter.     The 

I  fourth  and  subsequent  Imams  of  both  these  important  branches 

1  of  the  Sh{{a  were  descendants  of  al-Husayn,  and,  as  has  been 

\already  emphasised,  enjoyed  in  the  eyes  of  their  followers  the 

Idouble  prestige  of  representing  at  the  same  time  the  Prophetic 

JHouse  of  Arabia  and  the  Royal  House  of  Persia. 

1  Rashidu'd-Din  Fadlu'llah  says  in  the  section  of  his  great  history  (the 
Jdmi'u't-Tawdrikh),  which  deals  with  the  Isma'ilis,  that  in  Abu  Muslim's 
time  the  descendants  of  'Ali  based  their  claim  to  the  Caliphate  "  on  the 
nobility  of  their  descent  from  Fatima." 


THE  IMAM  JSMA'IL  393 

As  far  as  the  sixth  Imam,  Ja<far  as-Sadiq  ("  the  Veridical "), 
the  great-grandson  of  al-Husayn,  who  died  in  A.H.  148 
(A.D.  765),  the  Sects  of  the  Seven  and  of  the  Twelve  agree 
concerning  the  succession  of  their  pontiffs,  but  here  the  agree- 
ment ceases.  Ja'far  originally  nominated  as  his  successor  his 
eldest  son  Isma'fl,  but  afterwards,  being  displeased  with  him 
(because,  as  some  assert,  he  was  detected  indulging  himself  in 
wine x),  he  revoked  this  nomination  and  designated  another  of 
his  sons,  Musa  al-Kadhim  (the  seventh  Imam  of  the  Sect  of  the 
Twelve)  as  the  next  Imdm.  Isma'il,  as  is  generally  asserted, 
died  during  his  father's  lifetime  ;  and,  that  no  doubt  might 
exist  on  this  point,  his  body  was  publicly  shown.  But  some 
of  the  Shi'a  refused  to  withdraw  their  allegiance  from  him, 
alleging  that  the  nomination  could  not  be  revoked,  and  that 
even  if  he  did  drink  wine  this  was  done  deliberately  and  with 
a  high  purpose,  to  show  that  the  "  wine "  forbidden  by  the 
Prophet's  teaching  was  to  be  understood  in  an  allegorical  sense 
as  spiritual  pride,  or  the  like — a  view  containing  the  germ  of 
that  extensive  system  of  ta'wll,  or  Allegorical  Interpretation, 
which  was  afterwards  so  greatly  developed  by  the  Sect  of  the 
Seven.  Nor  did  Isma'il's  death  put  an  end  to  the  sect  which 
took  its  name  from  him,  though  differences  arose  amongst 
them  ;  some  asserting  that  he  was  not  really  dead,  or  that  he 
would  return  ;  others,  that  since  he  died  during  his  father's 
lifetime  he  never  actually  became  Imdm,  but  that  the 
nomination  was  made  in  order  that  the  Imamate  might  be 
transmitted  through  him  to  his  son  Muhammad,  whom,  conse- 
quently, they  regarded  as  the  Seventh,  Last,  and  Perfect  lindm ; 
while  others  apparently  regarded  Ismail  and  his  son  Mu- 
hammad as  identical,  the  latter  being  a  return  or  re-incarnation 
of  the  former.  Be  this  as  it  may,  de  Sacy  is  probably  right  in 
conjecturing2  that  until  the  appearance  of  'Abdu'lldh  b. 

1  This  is  stated,  for  example,  in  the  Jdmi'u't-Tawdrikh  mentioned  in 
the  last  note. 
8  Expost  de  la  Religion  des  Druzcs,  vol.  i,  p.  Ixxii. 


394  ^HE  ISMA'/Lf  SECT 

Maymtin  al-Qaddih  (of  whom  we  shall  speak  presently)  about 
A.H.  260 T  (A.D.  873-4),  "the  sect  of  the  Isma'ilis  had  been 
merely  an  ordinary  sect  of  the  Shf'ites,  distinguished  from 
others  by  its  recognition  of  Muhammad  b.  Isma'il  as  the  last 
Imdm,  and  by  its  profession  of  that  allegorical  doctrine  of 
which  this  Muhammad,  or  perhaps  his  grandfather  Ja'far 
as-Sadiq,  had  been  the  author. 

The  genius  which  gave  to  this  comparatively  insignificant 
sect  the  first  impulse  towards  that  might  and  influence  which 
it  enjoyed  for  nearly  four  centuries  came,  as  usual,  from  Persia, 
and  in  describing  it  I  cannot  do  better  than  cite  the  words  of 
those  great  Dutch  scholars  de  Goeje  and  Dozy. 

"  It  was,"  says  the  former,"  "  an  inveterate  hatred  against  the 
Arabs  and  Islam  which,  towards  the  middle  of  the  third  century  of 
the  hijra,  suggested  to  a  certain  '^hdii'llah  b.  Mavmuqr  an  oculist 
(Qadddh}  by  profession  and  a  Persian  by  race,  a  project  as  amazing 
for  the  boldness  and  genius  with  which  it  was  conceived  as  for  the 
assurance  and  vigour  with  which  it  was  carried  out." 

"To  bind  together3  in  one  association  the  conquered  and  the 
conquerors  ;  to  combine  in  one  secret  society,  wherein  there  should 
be  several  grades  of  initiation,  the  free-thinkers,  who  saw  in  religion 
only  a  curb  for  the  common  people,  and  the  bigots  of  all  sects  ;  to 
make  use  of  the  believers  to  bring  about  a  reign  of  the  unbelievers, 
and  of  the  conquerors  to  overthrow  the  empire  which  themselves 
had  founded ;  to  form  for  himself,  in  short,  a  party,  numerous, 
compact,  and  schooled  to  obedience,  which,  when  the  moment  was 
come,  would  give  the  throne,  if  not  to  himself,  at  least  to  his 
descendants  ;  such  was  the  dominant  idea  of  'Abdu'llah  b. 
Maymim  ;  an  idea  which,  grotesque  and  audacious  though  it  was, 
he  realised  with  astonishing  tact,  incomparable  skill,  and  a  pro- 
found knowledge  of  the  human  heart."4 

"To  attain  this  end  a  conjunction  of  means  was  devised  which 
may  fairly  be  described  as  Satanic  ;  human  weakness  was  attacked 


1  Fihrist,  p.  187.  *  Memoire  sur  les  Cartnathes,  Leyden,  1886. 

3  Here  speaks  Dozy  (Histoire  des  Musuhnans  de  I'Espagne,  vol.  iii,  pp.  8 
et  seqq.),  whom  de  Goeje  cites  in  this  place. 

«  Here  the  citation  from  Dozy  ends,  and  what  follows  is  in  the  words 
of  de  Goeje. 


NOT  SO  BLACK  AS  PAINTED  395 

on  every  side ;  devoutness  was  offered  to  the  believing ;  liberty, ' 
not  to  say  licence,  to  the  reckless;  philosophy  to  the  strong- 
minded  ;  mystical  hopes  to  the  fanatical,  and  marvels  to  the 
common  folk.  So  also  a  Messiah  was  presented  to  the  Jews,  a 
Paraclete  to  the  Christians,  a  Mahdi  to  the  Mussulmans,  and, 
lastly,  a  philosophical  system  of  theology  to  the  votaries  of  Persian 
and  Syrian  paganism.  And  this  system  was  put  in  movement  with 
a  calm  resolve  which  excites  our  astonishment,  and  which,  if  we 
could  forget  the  object,  would  merit  our  liveliest  admiration." 

The  only  criticism  I  would  make  on  this  luminous  descrip- 
tion of  the  Isma'ili  propaganda  is  that  it  hardly  does  justice  to 
those,  at  any  rate,  by  whose  efforts  the  doctrines  were  taught, 
amidst  a  thousand  dangers  and  difficulties  ;  to  that  host  of  mis- 
sionaries (ddl{,  plural  diSat]  whose  sincerity  and  self-abnegation 
at  least  are  wholly  admirable.  And  here  I  cannot  refrain 
from  quoting  a  passage  from  the  recently  published  Histoire  et 
Religion  des  Nosairis  (Paris,  1900)  of  Ren6  Dussaud,  one  of 
the  very  few  Europeans  who  have,  as  I  think,  appreciated  the 
good  points  of  this  remarkable  sect. 

"Certain  excessess,"  he  says  (p.  49),  "rendered  these  doctrines 
hateful  to  orthodox  Musulmans,  and  led  them  definitely  to  con- 
demn them.  It  must  be  recognised  that  many  Isma'ili  precepts 
were  borrowed  from  the  Mu'tazilites,  who,  amongst  other  things, 
repudiated  the  Attributes  of  God  and  proclaimed  the  doctrine  pf 
JVee  WilL  Notwithstanding  this  lack  of  originality,  it  appears  that 
The  judgments  pronounced  by  Western  scholars  are  marked  by  an 
excessive  severity.  It  is  certainly  wrong  to  confound,  as  do  the 
Musulman  doctors,  all  these  sects  in  one  common  reprobation. 
Thus,  the  disappearance  of  the  Fatimids,  who  brought  about  the 
triumph  of  the  Isma'ili  religion  in  Egypt,  concludes  an  era  of  pros- 
perity, splendour,  and  toleration  such  as  the  East  will  never  again 
enjoy." 

And  in  a  note  at  the  foot  of  the  page  the  same  scholar 
remarks  with  justice  that  even  that  branch  of  the  Isma'flfs 
from  whom  was  derived  the  word  "  Assassin,"  and  to  whom  it 
was  originally  applied,  were  by  no  means  the  first  community 
to  make  use  of  this  weapon  of  a  persecuted  minority  against 


x 


396  THE  ISMAfli  SECT 

their  oppressors,  and  that  "  the  Old  Man  of  the  Mountain  " 
himself  was  not  so  black  as  it  is  the  custom  to  paint  him.1 

Let  us  return,  however,  to  'Abdu'llah  b.  Mayrnun 
al-Qaddih,  to  whom  is  generally  ascribed  the  origin  of  the 
Isma'fH  power  and  organisation  and  the  real  parentage  of  the 
Fatimid  Caliphs  of  Egypt  and  the  West  ;  and  let  us  take  the 
account  of  him  given  in  the  Fihrist  in  preference  to  the 
assertions  of  more  modern  and  less  accurate  writers.  He  was, 
according  to  this  work,  a  native  of  Ahwaz ;  and  his  father 
Maymun  the  Oculist  was  the  founder  of  the  Maymuniyya 
sect»  a  branch  of  the  Khattabiyya,  which  belonged  to  the 
Ghul&t  or  Extreme  bhIMtes,  teaching  that  the  Imams,  and  in 
particular  the  sixth  Imam  Ja'far  as-Sadiq,  the  father  of  Isma'il, 
were  Divine  '  incarnations.2  'Abdu'llah  claimed  to  be  a 
Prophet,  and  performed  prodigies  which  his  followers  regarded 
as  miracles,  pretending  to  traverse  the  earth  in  the  twinkling 
of  an  eye  and  thus  to  obtain  knowledge  of  things  happening 
at  a  distance  ;  an  achievement  really  effected,  as  the  author  ot 
the  Fihrist  asserts,  by  means  of  carrier-pigeons  despatched  by 
his  confederates.3  From  his  native  village  he  transferred  his 
residence  after  a  time  to  'Askar  Mukram,  whence  he  was 
compelled  to  flee  in  succession  to  Sabat  Abf  Nuh,  Bas.ra,  and 
finally  Salamiyya  near  Hims  (Emessa)  in  Syria.  Therejie 
bought  land,  and  thence  he  sept  his  dfr{*  I'nt-o  f^r  rrmntry 
about  Kufa,  where  his  doctrines  were  espoused  by  a  certain 
Hamdan  b.  al-Ash'ath,  of  Quss  Bahrdm,  nicknamed  <j>armat 
on  account  of  his  short  body  and  legs,  who  became  one  of  the 

1  See  my  remarks  on  the  "  Ethics  of  Assassination,"  on  pp.  371-3  of  the 
(second  volume  of  The  Episode  of  the  Bab  (Cambridge,  1891). 
1     a  See  Shahristani's  J^tjiht'i  Milgjjr  136-138- 

3  Cf.  de  Goeje's  Carmathes,  p.  23.  A  similar  use  was  made  of  carrier- 
pigeons  by  Rashidu'd-Din  Sinan,  one  of  the  Grand  Masters  of  the  Syrian 
Assassins  in  the  twelfth  century  of  our  era.  See  Stanilas  Guyard's 
charming  monograph  in  the  Journal  Asiatique  for  1877,  pp.  39  and  41  of 
the  tirage-a-part.  The  employment  of  carrier-pigeons  was  apparently 
common  in  Persia  in  Samanid  times  (tenth  century).  See  my  translation 
of  the  Chahtir  Maqala,  pp.  29-30  of  the  tirage-a-part. 


'ABDU'LLAH  B.  MA  YMtfN  AL-QADDAH    397 

chief  propagandists  of  the   sect,  besides   giving  its    members 
one  of  the  names   (Carmathians ;    Ar.   Airmail   or    Qirmitiy 
pi.    QarAmita}    by    which    they   were   subsequently    known.1     j 
One  of  Hamdan's  chief  lieutenants  was   his  brother-in-law     / 
'AbdanT  jhe  author  of  a  number  of  (presumably  controversial)    / 
books,    who   organised    the    propaganda    in    Chaldaea,    while  I 
Hamdan  resided  at  Kalwadha,  maintaining  a  correspondence  I 
with  one  of  the  sons  of  'Abdu'lldh  b.  Maymun  al-Qadddh  who 
abode  at  Taliqdn  in  Khurdsdn. 

About  this  time  'Abdu'llah  b.  1\d>ymun.died  (AiH-^6i  = 
A.D.  874-5)  and  was  succeeded  first  by  his  son  Muhammad, 
secondly  by  a  certain  Ahmed  (variously  described  as  the  son  or 
the  brother  of  him  last  named)  called  Abu  Shalacla',  and 
thirdly  by  Sa'fd  b.  al-Husayn  b.  Abdu'lldh  b.  Maymun 
al-Qadddh,  who  was  born  in  A.M.  260  at  Salamiyya  in  Syria,  a 
year  before  the  death  of  his  grandfather.  To  him  at  length 
was  it  granted  to  reap  the  fruits  of  the  ambitious  schemes 
devised  and  matured  by  his  predecessors.  In  A.H.  297 
(A.D.  909),  learning  from  his  d^l  Abu  'Abdi'llah  that  the 
Berbers  in  North  Africa  were  impregnated  with  the  Ismd'iH 
doctrines  and  were  eagerly  expecting  the  coming  of  the  Imam, 
he  crossed  over  thither,  declared  himself  to  be  the  great-grand- 
son of  Muhammad  b.  Isma'Il  and  the  promised  Mahdi,  took 
the  name  of  Abu  Muhammad  'Ubaydu'llah,  placed  himself  at 
the  head  of  his  enthusiastic  partisans,  overthrew  the  Aghlabid 
dynasty,  conquered  the  greater  portion  of  North  Africa,  and, 
with  the  newly-founded  city  of  Mahdiyya  for  his  capital, 
established  the  dynasty  which,  because  of  the  claim  which  it 
maintained  of  descent  from  Fatima,  the  Prophet's  daughter, 
is  known  as  the  Fatimid.  Sixty  years  later  (A.H.  356  = 
A.D.  969)  Egypt  was  wrested  by  them  from  the  House  of 
Ikhshid,  and  at  the  end  of  the  tenth  century  of  our  era  most 

1  See  de  Goeje's  learned  note  on  this  much-debated  etymology  at 
pp.  199-203  of  his  Alenwire  sur  les  Carmathes.  For  a  full  account  of  the, 
conversion  of  Hamdan,  see  de  Sacy's  Expose,  vol.  i,  pp.  clxvi-clxxi, 


398  THE  ISMA'JLI  SECT 

of  Syria  was  in  their  hands.  This  great  Shi'ite  power  was 
represented  by  fourteen  Anti-Caliphs,  and  was  finally  extin- 
guished by  Saladin  (Salahu'd  Din)  in  A.H.  567  (A.D.  1171). 

The  genuineness  of  the  pedigree  claimed  by  the  Fatimids 
has  been  much  discussed,  and  the  balance  of  evidence  appears 
to  weigh  strongly  against  it :  there  is  little  doubt  that  not  'All 
and  Fitima,  but  'Abdu'llah  b.  Maymun  al-Qaddih  was  their 
real  ancestor.  The  matter  is  discussed  at  length  by  de  Goeje 1 
with  his  usual  learning  and  acumen.  Amongst  the  many 
arguments  that  he  adduces  against  their  legitimacy  it  is 
sufficient  to  cite  here  one  or  two  of  the  strongest.  Their 
descent  from  Fdtima  was  denied  alike  by  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs 
(who  made  no  attempt  to  contest  the  pedigrees  of  the  numerous 
'Alid  pretenders,  some  of  them  dangerous  and  formidable 
enough,  who  were  continually  raising  the  standard  of  rebellion 
against  them) ;  by  the  Umayyads  of  Cordova ;  and,  on  two 
separate  occasions  (A.H.  402  and  444  =  A.D.  ion— 1012  and 
1052-3),  by  the  recognised  representatives  of  the  House  of 
'AH  at  Baghdad.  Moreover,  the  Buwayhid  'Adudu'd-Dawla, 
in  spite  of  his  strong  Shi'ite  proclivities,  was  so  far  from  satisfied 
with  the  results  of  an  inquiry  into  their  pedigree  which  he 
instituted  in  A.H.  370  (A.D.  980-1)  that  he  threatened  to 
invade  their  territories,  and  ordered  all  their  writings  to  be 
burned.  And  on  the  other  hand  it  is  frankly  admitted  in  the 
sacred  books  of  the  Druzes,  a  sect  (still  active  and  numerous  in 
Syria)  which  regards  al-Hdkim,  the  sixth  Fatimid  Caliph, 
as  the  last  and  most  perfect  Manifestation  or  Incarnation  of 
the  Deity,  that  'Abdu'llah  b.  Maymun  al-Qadddh  was  the 
ancestor  of  their  hero.2  When  we  reflect  on  the  inward 
essence  of  the  Isma'ilf  doctrine,  and  its  philosophical  and 
cosmopolitan  character,  we  might  well  imagine  that  to  the 
fully-initiated  members  of  the  sect  at  any  rate  it  would  be 
a  matter  of  comparative  indifference  whether  their  spiritual  and 

1  Carmaihes  de  Bahrain,  pp.  4-11. 

2  De  Goeje,  loc.  cit.,  p.  10  ;  de  Sacy's  Expose,  pp.  Ixvii,  35  and  84-87. 


THE  FATIMID   CALIPHS  399 

temporal  rulers  were  or  were  not  descended  from  the  Prophet 
through  his  daughter  Fatima.  But,  as  we  shall  see  in  a  later 
chapter,  one  of  their  most  talented  missionaries  in  Persia,  the 
poet  and  traveller  Nasir-i-Khusraw,  who  held  the  high  title 
of  Hujjaty  or  "Proof,"  of  Khurasan  —  a  man  of  fiery  zeal  and 
transparent  sincerity  —  certainly  believed  in  the  genuineness 
of  the  Fatimid  pedigree. 

As  regards  the  rule  of  the  Fatimids,  it  was  on  the  whole, 
despite  occasional  acts  of  cruelty  and  violence  inevitable  in 
that  time  and  place,  liberal,  beneficent,  and  favourable  to 
learning. 


"Tbf.  4Isma!lli)  doctrines/'  says  Guyard,1  "were  publicly  taught 
at  Cairo  in  universities  richly  endowed  and  provided  with  libraries, 
where  crowds  assembled  to  listen  to  the  most  distinguished  pro- 
fessors. The  principle  of  the  sect  being  that  men  must.be  converted 
by  persuasion,  the  greatest  tolerance  was  shown  towards  other 
creeds.  Mu'izz  (the  fourth  Fatimid  Caliph,  reigned  A.D.  952-975) 
permitted  Christians  to  dispute  openly  with  his  doctors,  a  thing 
hitherto  unheard  of  ;  and  Severus,  the  celebrated  bishop  of 
Ushmunayn,  availed  himself  of  this  authorisation.  Out  of  the 
funds  of  the  Treasury  Mu'izz  rebuilt  the  ruined  church  of  St. 
Mercurius  at  Fystat.  which  the  Christians  had  never  hitherto  been 
permitted  to  restore.  Certain  Musulman  fanatics  endeavoured  to 
prevent  this,  and  on  the  day  when  the  first  stone  was  laid  a  Shaykh, 
leaping  down  amongst  the  foundations,  swore  that  he  would  die 
rather  than  suffer  the  church  to  be  rebuilt.  Mu'izz,  being  informed 
of  what  was  taking  place,  caused  this  man  to  be  buried  under  the 
stones,  and  only  spared  his  life  at  tfte  instance  of  the  Patriarch 
Ephrem.'  Had  the  Isma'ili  doctrine  been  able  to  maintain  itself 
in  Egypt  in  its  integrity,  it  would  have  involved  the  civilisation 
of  the  Muslim  world.  Unfortunately,  as  an  actual  consequence  of 
this  doctrine,  a  serious  change  was  about  to  take  place  in  the  sect  ;  * 


1  Un  grand  m&itre  des  Assassins,  pp.  14-15  of  the  tirage-a-part. 

'  Guyard  refers  here  to  Quatremere's  Vie  du  khalife  fdtimite  Moezz 
li-din-Alldh  (extract  from  the  Journal  Asiatique),  pp.  118  ct.  seqq.,  and  to 
an  article  by  Defremery  (Nouvelles  Recherches  sur  les  Ismailicns)  in  the 
same  Journal,  Ser.  V,  vol.  iii,  p.  404. 

3  Allusion  is  here  made  to  the  monstrous  pretensions  advanced  by 
al-Hakim,  the  grandson  of  al-  Mu'izz,  who  claimed  to  be  an  Incarnation 


400  THE  ISMA'JLf  SECT 

while,  on  the  other  hand,  the  excesses  of  the  Isma'ih's  of  Persia  and 
Syria  armed  against  Egypt,  the  fpcus  of  the  sect,  the  pious  and 
orthodox  Nuru'd-Din  (the  Atabek  of  Syria,  A.D.  1146-1173),  who 
succeeded  in  overthrowing  the  Fatimid  dynasty." 

Nasir-i-Khusraw,  who  was  at  Cairo  in  the  middle  of  the 
eleventh  century  of  our  era,  during  the  reign  of  al-Mustansir, 
the  eighth  Fatimid  Caliph,  gives  an  equally  favourable  picture. 

"  Every  one,"  says  he,1  "  has  perfect  confidence  in  the  Sultan,  and 
no  one  stands  in  fear  of  myrmidons  or  spies,  relying  on  the  Sultan 
to  oppress  no  one  and  to  covet  no  one's  possessions.  There  I 
saw  wealth  belonging  to  private  individuals  such  that  if  I  should 
speak  of  it  or  describe  it  the  people  of  Persia  would  refuse  to  credit 
my  statements.  I  could  neither  limit  nor  define  their  wealth,  and 
nowhere  have  I  seen  such  prosperity  as  I  saw  there.  There  I  saw  a 
Christian  who  was  one  of  the  richest  men  in  Egypt,  so  that  it 
was  said  that  his  ships,  his  wealth,  and  his  estates  surpassed 
computation.  My  object  in  mentioning  him  is  that  one  year  the 
water  of  the  Nile  fell  short  and  corn  became  dear.  The  Sultan's 
ii'azir  summoned  this  Christian  and  said,  'The  year  is  not  good, 
and  the  Sultan's  heart  is  weighed  down  with  anxiety  for  his  people. 
How  much  corn  could  you  supply,  either  for  a  price  or  as  a  loan  ? ' 
The  Christian  answered,  'Thanks  to  the  fortunate  auspices  of  the 
Sultan  and  the  wazir,  I  have  in  store  so  much  corn  that  I  could 
supply  all  Egypt  with  bread  for  six  years.' 3  Now  the  population  of 
Egypt  at  this  time  was  certainly,  at  the  lowest  computation,  five 
times  that  of  Nishapur  ;  and  any  one  versed  in  statistics  will  readily 
understand  what  vast  wealth  one  must  possess  to  hold  corn  to  such 
an  amount,  and  what  security  of  property  and  good  government  a 
people  must  enjoy  amongst  whom  such  things  are  possible,  and 
what  great  riches ;  and  withal  neither  did  the  Sultan  oppress  or 
wrong  any  one,  nor  did  his  subjects  keep  anything  hidden  or 
concealed." 

of  God,  and  was  accepted  as  such  by  the  sect  of  Isma'ilis  still  known  as 
the  Druzes,  after  al-Hakim's  minister  and  abettor  the  Persian  Hamza 
ad-Duruzi. 

1  Safar-ndma,  edited  in  the  original  Persian,  with  a  French  translation, 
by  the  late  M.  Ch.  Schefer  (Paris,  1881) ,  pp.  155-6  of  the  translation, 
pp.  56-7  of  the  text. 

3  Or  perhaps  "  Cairo,"  which,  as  well  as  the  country  of  which  it  is  the 
capital,  is  commonly  called  Misr  by  the  Muslims. 


THE  CARMATHIANS  401 

It  does  not  appear  that  Nasir-i-  Khusraw  had  embraced  the 
Isma'fH  doctrine  before  he  made  his  journey  to  Egypt  and 
the  West,  and  we  may  fairly  assume  that  the  admirable 
example  presented  to  other  governments  of  that  period  by 
the  Fdtimids  had  no  inconsiderable  effect  in  his  conversion 
to  those  views  of  which,  till  the  end  of  his  long  life,  he  was 
so  faithful  an  adherent  and  so  earnest  an  exponent.  That 
he  was  familiar  with  the  Gospels  is  proved  by  several  passages 
in  his  poems  ;  and  no  doubt  he  held  that  men  cannot  gather 
grapes  from  thorns  or  figs  from  thistles,  and  that  a  doctrine 
capable  of  producing  results  which  contrasted  so  favourably 
with  the  conditions  prevalent  under  any  other  contemporary 
government  had  at  any  rate  a  strong  primd  facie  claim  to 
serious  and  attentive  consideration. 

Before  we  proceed  to  speak  of  this  doctrine,  however,  it  is 
necessary  to  say  something  of  a  less  orderly  and  well-conducted 
branch  of  the  Isma^Hs,  whose  relation  to  the  Fdtimid  Caliphs 
still  remains,  in  spite  of  the  investigations  of  many  eminent 
scholars,  notably  de  Goeje,  somewhat  of  a  mystery.  Mention 
has  already  been  made  of  Hamddn  Qarmat,  from  whom  the 
Carmathians  (Qardmita}  derive  their  name.  These  Car- 
math  ians,  the  followers  of  the  above-named  Qaunat  and 
his  disciple  '^hjgfl  (the  most  prolific  writer  of  the  early 
iMtta'ilis),1  are  much  less  intimately  connected  with  Persian 
history  than  the  Fdtimid  Isma'fHs,  and  their  power  was  of 
much  shorter  duration  ;  but  for  about  a  hundred  years 
(A.D.  890-990)  they  spread  terror  through  the  realms  of  the 
'Abbasid  Caliphs.  Already,  while  the  Zanj  insurrection  was 
in  progress,  we  find  Qarmat  interviewing  the  insurgent 
leader  and  endeavouring  to  arrive  at  an  understanding  with 
him,  which,  however,  proved  to  be  impossible.2  Very  shortly 

1  FihHst,  p.  189,  where  eight  of  his  works  are  mentioned  as  having  been 
seen  and  read  by  the  author.  Another  work  mentioned  in  this  place 
(al-Baldghdtu  's-sab'a,  in  the  sense,  apparently  of  "the  Seven  Initiations") 
was  known,  by  name  at  least,  to  the  Nidhamu'1-Mulk.  See  his  Siyrfsat- 
tidma,  ed.  Schefer,  p.  196. 

•  De  Goeje's  Carmathes,  p.  26  ;  and  p.  350  supra. 

27 


402  THE  iSMAlLt  SECT 

after  this  (A.D.  892)  the  increasing  power  of  the  Carmathians 
began  to  cause  a  lively  anxiety  at  Baghdad.1  About  five 
years  later  they  first  rose  in  arms,  but  this  insurrection,  as 
well  as  those  of  A.D.  900,  901,  and  902,  was  suppressed.  Yet 
already  we  find  them  active,  not  only  in  Mesopotamia  and 
Khuzistan,  but  in  Bahrayn,  Yaman,  and  Syria ;  on  the  one 
hand  we  hear  of  them  in  the  prison  and  on  the  scaffold  ;  and 
on  the  other,  led  by  their  dfrh  Zilcrawayh  and  Abu  Sa'fd 
Hasan  b.  Bahram  al-Janndbf  (both  Persians,  to  judge  by  their 
names),  we  find  them  widely  extending  their  power  and 
obtaining  absolute  control  of  vast  tracts  of  country.  In 
A.D.  900  the  Caliph's  troops  were  utterly  routed  outside  Basra, 
and  only  the  general,  al-'Abbas  b.  cAmr  al-Ghanawf,  returned 
to  tell  the  tale  at  Baghdad  ; 2  while  a  year  or  two  later  "  the 
Master  of  the  Camel  "  (Sahiburn-nAqa),  and  after  his  death  his 
brother,  "  the  Man  with  the  Mole "  (Sahibush-ShAma,  or 
SAhibu  l-Khdl\  were  ravaging  Syria  up  to  the  very  gates  of 
Damascus.  The  success  of  this  last  was,  however,  short-lived, 
for  he  was  taken  captive  and  put  to  death  in  December, 
A.D.  903,  and  the  death  of  Zikrawayh  in  the  defeat  inflicted 
on  him  three  or  four  years  later  saved  Syria  for  the  time 
being  from  further  ravages.  His  last  and  most  signal  achieve- 
ment was  his  attack  on  the  pilgrim-caravan  returning  from 
Mecca,  in  which  fearful  catastrophe  no  less  than  twenty 
thousand  victims  are  said  to  have  perished. 

The  Fdtimid  dynasty  had  been  firmly  established  in  North 
Africa  for  some  years  before  we  hear  much  more  of  the 
Carmathians ;  3  but  in  A.D.  924  Abu  Tdhir  al-Jannabf 
(the  son  and  successor  of  the  Abu  Sa'id  al-Jannabl  mentioned 
above)  raided  Basra  and  carried  off  a  rich  booty  ;  a  few  months 

1  De  Goeje's  Carmathes,  pp.  31-2. 

2  His  own   narrative  is  given  in  translation   by  de   Goeje,  op.  tit., 
pp.  40-43.    See  also  p.  354  supra. 

3  De  Goeje  (op.  cit.,  p.  75)  speaks  of  "  the  almost  complete  inactivity  of 
the  Carmathians  during  the  six  years  which  immediately  followed  the 
death  of  Abu  Sa'id  "  (who  was  assassinated  in  A.D.  913-914). 


THE  CARMATHIANS  403 

later  another  pilgrim-caravan  was  attacked  (2,200  men  and 
300  women  were  slain,  and  a  somewhat  greater  number  taken 
captive,  together  with  a  vast  booty) ;  x  and  soon  afterwards 
Kufa  was  looted  for  six  days,  during  which  the  Carmathian 
leader  quartered  his  guard  in  the  great  mosque.  Tn  the  early 
spring  of  A.D.  926  the  pilgrim-caravan  was  allowed  to  proceed 
on  its  way  after  payment  of  a  heavy  ransom,  but  during  the 
three  following  years  passage  was  absolutely  barred  to  the 
pilgrims.  But  it  was  in  January,  930,  that  the  Carmathians 
performed  their  greatest  exploit,  for  in  the  early  days  of  that 
month  Abu  Tahir,  with  an  army  of  some  six  hundred  horse- 
men and  nine  hundred  unmounted  soldiers,  entered  the  sacred 
city  of  Mecca  itself,  slew,  plundered,  and  took  captive  in  the 
usual  fashion,  and — the  greatest  horror  of  all  in  the  eyes  of 
pious  Muslims — carried  off  the  Black  Stone  and  other  sacred 
relics.  In  this  culminating  catastrophe  30,000  Muslims 
are  said  to  have  been  slain,  of  whom  1,900  met  their  death 
in  the  very  precincts  of  the  Ka'ba  ;  the  booty  carried  off  was 
immense  ;  and  the  scenes  which  accompanied  these  sacrilegious 
acts  baffle  description.2 

It  is  unnecessary  to  follow  in  detail  the  further  achievements 
of  the  Carmathians,  who  continued  to  raid,  plunder,  massacre, 
and  levy  taxes  on  the  pilgrims  until  the  death  of  Abu  Tdhir 
in  A.D.  944.  Six  years  later  the  Black  Stone,  having  been 
kept  by  the  Carmathians  of  al-Ahsd  for  nearly  twenty-two 
years,  was  voluntarily  restored  by  them  to  its  place  in  the 
Kacba  of  Mecca.  "  We  took  it  by  formal  command  (of  our 
Imam),  and  we  will  only  restore  it  by  a  command  (from  him) " 
had  been  their  unvarying  reply  to  all  the  attempts  of  the 
Muslims  to  persuade  them  to  yield  it  up  in  return  for  enormous 
ransoms  ;  but  at  length  the  order  was  issued  by  the  Fafimid 
Caliph  al-Qa'im  or  al-Mansur,3  and  the  stone  was  once  more 

1  De  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  p.  85. 

*  See  de  Goeje's  graphic  account,  op.  cit.,  pp.  104-113. 

s  Ibid.,  op.  cit.,  p.  144. 


404 

set  in  its  place,  to  the  infinite  joy  and  relief  of  all  pious 
Muhammadans.  Very  soon  after  the  Fatimids  had  obtained 
possession  of  Egypt  (A.D.  969)  a  quarrel  arose  between  them 
and  their  Carmathian  co-religionists,1  and  a  year  or  two  later 
we  actually  find  some  of  the  latter  righting  on  the  side  of  the 
'Abbasids  against  their  ancient  masters. 

The  exact  relations  which  existed  between  the  apparently 
antinomian,  democratic,  and  predatory  Carmathians  and  the 
theocratic  Fatimids,  whose  just  and  beneficent  rule  has  been 
already  described,2  are,  as  has  been  said,  somewhat  obscure. 
But  de  Goeje  has  conclusively  proved,  in  the  able  and  learned 
treatise  so  frequently  quoted  in  this  chapter,  that  these 
relations  were  of  the  closest ;  that  the  Carmathians  recognised 
to  the  full  (save  in  some  exceptional  cases)  the  authority, 
temporal  and  spiritual,  of  the  Fatimid  Caliphs,  even  though  it 
often  seemed  expedient  to  the  latter  to  deny  or  veil  the 
connection  3  ;  and  that  the  doctrines  of  both  were  the  same, 
due  allowance  being  made  for  the  ruder  and  grosser  under- 
standings of  the  Bedouin  Arabs  from  whom  were  chiefly 
recruited  4  the  ranks  of  the  Carmathians,  who  were,  as 
de  Goeje  observes,  "  as  was  only  natural,  absolute  strangers 
to  the  highest  grade  of  initiation  in  which  the  return  of 
Muhammad  b.  Isma'tt  was  spiritually  explained." 

Of  what  is  known  concerning  the  internal  organisation  of 
the  Carmathians ;  of  their  Supreme  Council,  the  white-robed 
llqdaniyya,  to  whom  was  given  power  to  loose  and  to  bind  ;  of 
their  disregard  of  the  ritual  and  formal  prescriptions  of  Islam, 
their  contempt  for  the  "  asses "  who  offered  adoration  to 
shrines  and  stones,  and  their  indulgence  in  meats  held  unlawful 
by  the  orthodox  ;  and  of  their  revenues,  commerce,  and 
treatment  of  strangers,  full  details  will  be  found  in  de  Goeje's 

1  Concerning  the  very  obscure  causes  of  this  incomprehensible  event, 
cf.  de  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  pp.  183  et  seqq. 

"  See  pp.  399-401  supra ;  and  also  de  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  pp.  177-8. 
3  Op.  cit.,  pp.  81-83.  4  Op.  cit.,  pp.  161-165  and  173. 


THE  CARMATHIANS  405 

monograph.  Of  the  many  interesting  passages  cited  in  that 
little  volume  (a  model  of  scholarly  research  and  clear  exposi- 
tion) the  reader's  attention  is  specially  directed  to  the 
narrative  of  a  woman  who  visited  the  Carmathian  camp  in 
search  of  her  son  (pp.  51-56)  ;  the  poems  composed  by  Abu 
Tdhir  al-Jannabf  after  the  sack  of  Mecca  (p.  no)  and  Kufa 
(pp.  113-115);  the  scathing  satire  composed  in  Yaman 
against  the  Carmathian  chief  (pp.  160-161)  ;  the  narrative  of 
a  traditionist  who  was  for  a  time  a  captive  and  a  slave  in  the 
hands  of  the  Carmathians  (pp.  175-6)  ;  and  the  replies  made 
by  a  Carmathian  prisoner  to  the  Caliph  al-Mu'tadid  (pp.  25—6). 
That  morally  they  were  by  no  means  so  black  as  their  Muslim 
foes  have  painted  them  is  certainly  true,  but  of  the  terrible 
bloodshed  heralded  by  their  ominous  and  oft-repeated  formula 
"  Purify  them  "  (by  the  sword)  there  is  unfortunately  no  doubt 
whatever. 

We  must  now  pass  to  an  examination  of  the  Isma'fH  doctrine 
— a  doctrine  typically  Persian,  typically  Shfit£,  and  possessed  of 
an  extraordinary  charm  for  minds  of  a  certain  type,  and  that  by 
no  means  an  ignoble  or  ignorant  one.1  And  here  I  will  cite 
first  of  all  the  concluding  paragraphs  of  an  article  which  I 
contributed  in  January,  1898,  to  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society  on  the  Literature  and  Doctrines  of  the  J^urhfi 
Sect  (pp.  88-9)  :— 

"The  truth  is,  that  there  is  a  profound  difference  between  the 
Persian  idea  of  Religion  and  that  which  obtains  in  the  West.  Here 
it  is  the  ideas  of  Faith  and  Righteousness  (in  different  proportions, 
it  is  true)  which  are  regarded  as  the  essentials  of  Religion  ;  there  it 
is  Knowledge  and  Mystery.  Here  Religion  is  regarded  as  a  rule  by 
which  to  live  and  a  hope  wherein  to  die  ;  there  as  a  Key  to  unlock 
the  Secrets  of  the  Spiritual  and  Material  Universe.  Here  it  is 
associated  with  Work  and  Charity  ;  there  with  Rest  and  Wisdom. 
Here  a  creed  is  admired  for  its  simplicity ;  there  for  its  complexity 


1  Cf,  de  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  p.  172, 


406  THE  ISMA'lLf  SECT 

To  Europeans  these  speculations  about  'Names'  ana  'Numbers' 
and  '  Letters '  ;  this  talk  of  Essences,  Quiddities,  and  Theophanies  ; 
these  far-fetched  analogies  and  wondrous  hair-splittings,  appear,  as  a 
rule,  not  merely  barren  and  unattractive,  but  absurd  and  incom- 
prehensible ;  and  consequently,  when  great  self-devotion  and 
fearlessness  of  death  and  torture  are  witnessed  amongst  the  adherents 
of  such  a  creed,  attempts  are  instinctively  made  by  Europeans  to 
attribute  to  that  creed  some  ethical  or  political  aim.  Such  aim  may 
or  may  not  exist,  but,  even  if  it  does,  it  is,  I  believe,  as  a  rule,  of 
quite  secondary  and  subordinate  importance  in  the  eyes  of  those 
who  have  evolved  and  those  who  have  accepted  the  doctrine.  .  .  . 

"  The  same  difference  of  ideal  exists  as  to  the  quality  and  nature 
of  Scripture,  the  Revealed  Word  of  God.  Provided  the  ethical 
teaching  be  sublime,  and  there  be  peace  for  the  troubled  and 
comfort  for  the  sorrowful,  we  care  little,  comparatively,  for  the 
outward  form.  But  in  the  eyes  of  the  Musulmans  (including,  of 
course,  the  followers  of  all  those  sects,  even  the  most  heretical, 
which  have  arisen  in  the  bosom  of  Islam)  this  outward  form  is  a 
matter  of  the  very  first  importance.  Every  letter  and  line  of  the 
Qur'an  (which  always  remains  the  model  and  prototype  of  a 
Revealed  Book,  even  amongst  those  sects  who  claim  that  it  has 
been  abrogated  by  a  newer  Revelation)  is  supposed  to  be  fraught 
with  unutterable  mystery  and  filled  with  unfathomable  truth. 
Generations  of  acute  minds  expend  their  energies  in  attempts  to 
fathom  these  depths  and  penetrate  these  mysteries.  What  wonder 
if  the  same  discoveries  are  made  quite  independently  by  different 
minds  in  different  ages,  working  with  the  same  bent  on  the  same 
material  ?  In  studying  the  religious  history  of  the  East,  and 
especially  of  Persia,  let  us  therefore  be  on  our  guard  against 
attaching  too  much  importance  to  resemblances  which  may  be  the 
natural  outcome  of  similar  minds  working  on  similar  lines,  rather 
than  the  result  of  any  historical  filiation  or  connection." 

The  Isma'ilf  doctrine  was,  as  we  have  seen,  mainly  devised 
and  elaborated  (though  largely  from  ideas  and  conceptions 
already  ancient,  and,  as  has  been  remarked,  almost  endemic  in 
Persia)  by  'Abdu'llah  b.  Maymun  al-Qaddah.  Great  stress  is 
generally  laid,  both  by  Oriental  and  European  writers,  on  the 
primarily  political  motive  which  is  supposed  to  have  inspired 
him,  the  desire,  namely,  to  destroy  the  power  of  the  Arabs, 
and  the  religion  of  Islam  whence  that  power  was  derived,  and 


THE  ISMA'fLl  DOCTRINE  407 

to  restore  to  Persia  the  dominant  position  which  she  had 
previously  held,  and  to  which,  in  his  opinion,  she  was  entitled.1 
I  myself  am  inclined  to  think  that,  to  judge  by  the  Persian 
character,  in  which  the  sentiment  of  what  we  understand  by 
patriotism  is  not  a  conspicuous  feature,  and  by  what  I  have 
myself  observed  in  the  analogous  case  of  the  Babi's,  this  quasi- 
political  motive  has  been  unduly  exaggerated  ;  and  that 
'Abdu'lldh  b.  Maymiin  and  his  ally,  the  wealthy  astrologer 
Dandan  (or  Zaydan) 2  exerted  themselves  as  they  did  to 
propagate  the  system  of  doctrine  about  to  be  described  not 
because  it  was  Persian,  but  because,  being  Persian,  it  strongly 
appealed  to  their  Persian  minds. 3 

The  doctrine  which  we  are  about  to  describe  is,  it  must  be 
repeated,  the  doctrine  evolved  by  'Abdu'lldh  b.  Maymiin 
al-Qaddah.  "  The  sect  of  the  Isma'ilis,"  says  Guyard  in  his 
Fragments  relatifi  a  la  Doctrine  des  Ismallis  (Paris,  1874,  p.  8), 
"  was  primarily  a  mere  subdivision  of  the  Shi'ites,  or  partisans 
of  'AH  ;  but,  from  the  time  of  *Abdu'llah,  surnamed  Qaddah, 
the  son  of  Maymiin  Qaddah,  and  chief  of  the  sect,  towards  the 
year  A.H.  250  (A.D.  864),  it  so  greatly  diverged  from  its  point 
of  departure  that  it  met  with  the  reprehension  of  the  Shf'ites 
themselves,  who  denounced  as  impious  such  as  would  embrace 
it."  The  chief  thing  which  it  derived  from  Isma'il  the 
seventh  Imam  was  its  name  hmdilll ;  but  it  bore  several  other 
names,  such  as  Sabli  ("  the  Sect  of  the  Seven  ") ;  Batinl  ("the 
Esoteric  Sect  ")  ;  Ta'limi  ("  doctrinaire  "),  because,  according 
to  its  tenets,  the  true  "  teaching  "  or  "  doctrine "  (ta^llni) 
could  only  be  obtained  from  the  Imdm  of  the  time  ;  Fdtimi 

1  See,  for  instance,  the  Fihrist,  p.  188,  where  the  same  design  is  ascribed 
to  Abu  Muslim  ;  Guyard,  Un  Grand  Maitre  dcs  Assassins,  pp.  4-5  and 
10-13  ;  de  Goeje's  Carmatlies,  pp.  1-2  ;  von  Hammer's  Histoire  de  I'Ordre 
des  Assassins  (Paris,  1833),  p.  44,  &c. 

*  See  de  Goeje,  op.  cit.,  p.  15  and  note  2  ad  cole. 

3  No  doubt  Persian  national  feeling  was  appealed  to,  when  it  could 
serve  the  purpose  of  the  dd'i,  but  he  was  just  as  ready  to  appeal  to  similar 
sentiments  in  the  Arabs  and  other  peoples.  See  de  Sacy's  Expose,  p.  cxii, 


408  THE  ISMAIL!  SECT 

("owing  allegiance  to  the  descendants  of  Fatima,"  the  Prophet's 
daughter  and  'All's  wife)  ;  Airmail  or  Carmathian,  after  the 
dfri  Hamdan  Oarmat  already  mentioned.  By  their  foes, 
especially  in  Persia,  they  were  very  commonly  called  simply 
Malahida  ("impious  heretics"),  and  later,  after  the  New 
Propaganda  of  Hasan-i-Sabbah  (of  whom  we  shall  speak  in  a 
later  chapter),  Hashlshi  ("  hashish-eaters  "). 

Their  doctrine,  as  already  indicated,  and  as  will  shortly 
appear  more  plainly,  hinges  to  a  large  extent  on  the  number 
seven,  and,  to  a  less  degree,  on  the  number  twelve ;  numbers 
which  are  written  plain  in  the  universe  and  in  the  body  of 
man.  Thus  there  are  seven  Planets  and  twelve  Zodiacal 
Signs;  seven,  days  in  the  week  and  twelve  months  in  the 
year  ;  seven  cervical  vertebrae  and  twelve  dorsal,  and  so  on  : 
while  the  number  seven  appears  in  the  Heavens,  the  Earths,  the 
Climes,  and  the  apertures  of  the  face  and  head  (two  ears,  two 
eyes,  two  nostrils,  and  the  mouth). 

Intermediate  between  God  and  Man  are  the  Five  Principles 
or  Emanations  (the  Universal  Reason,  the  Universal  Soul, 
Primal  Matter,  Pleroma  or  Space,  and  Kenoma  or  Time  x), 
making  in  all  Seven  Grades  of  Existence. 

Man  cannot  attain  to  the  Truth  by  his  unaided  endeavours, 
but  stands  in  need  of  the  teaching  (ta^llm)  of  the  Universal 
Reason,  which  from  time  to  time  becomes  incarnate  in  the 
form  of  a  Prophet  or  "  Speaker  "  (Natiq]^  and  teaches,  more 
fully  and  completely  in  each  successive  Manifestation,  accord- 
ing to  the  evolution  of  the  Human  Understanding,  the  spiritual 
truths  necessary  for  his  guidance.  Six  great  Prophetic  cycles 
have  passed  (those  of  Adam,  Noah,  Abraham,  Moses,  Jesus, 
and  Muhammad),  and  the  last  and  seventh  cycle,  in  which  for 
the  first  time  the  Esoteric  Doctrine,  the  true  inwardness  of  the 
Law  and  the  Prophets,  is  made  clear,  was  inaugurated  by 
Muhammad  b.  Isma'il,  the  ^a'im  ("  He  who  ariseth ")  or 
Sahibuz-Zaman  ("Lord  of  the  Time").  Each  Prophet  or 

1  See  the  footnote  on  p.  n  of  Guyard's  Grand  Maitre  ties  Assassins. 


THE  ISMAfLf  DOCTRINE 


409 


"  Speaker  "  (Ndtiq}  is  succeeded  by  seven  Imams  (called  Sdmit, 
"  Silent  "),  of  whom  the  first  (called  Asas,  "  Foundation,"  or 
<S«5,  "  Root,"  "  Origin  ")  is  always  the  intimate  companion  of 
the  Ndtiq,  and  the  repository  of  his  esoteric  teaching.  The 
series  in  detail  is  as  follows  : — 


Ndtiq. 


i.  Adam. 


Asds,  \vlio  is  the  first  of  the  Seven  Sdmils 
or  /warns. 

Seth.  (Each  Sdmit,  or  Imam,  has  twelve 
Hujjais,  "  Proofs,"  or  Chief  Dd'is.) 

Shein. 

Ishmael. 

Aaron.  John  the  Baptist  was  the  last 
Sdmit  of  this  series,  and  the  immediate 
precursor  of  Jesus,  the  next  Ndtiq. 

Simon  Peter. 

'Ali,  followed  by  al- Hasan,  al-Husayn, 
'Ali  Zaynu'l-'Abidin,  Muhammad  al- 
B.iqir,  Ja'far  as-Sadiq,  and  Isma'il. 

'Abdu'llah  b.  Maymiin  al-Qaddah,  fol- 
lowed by  two  of  his  sons,  Ahmad  and 
Muhammad,  and  his  grandson  Sa'id, 
later  known  as  'Ubaydu'llah-al-Mahdi 
(who  pretended  to  be  the  grandson 
of  Muhammad  b.  Isma'il),  the  founder 
of  the  Fatimid  Dynasty. 


In  the  correspondence  established  between  the  Grades  of 
Being  and  the  Isma'IH  hierarchy  there  seems  to  be  a  lacuna, 
since  God,  the  Primal  Unknowable  Essence,  is  represented  by 
no  class  in  the  latter.  As  to  the  last  term  also  I  am  in  doubt. 
The  other  correspondences  are  as  follows  : — 


2.  Noah. 

3.  Abraham. 

4.  Moses. 


5.  Jesus. 

6.  Muhammad. 


7.  Muljammad  b.  Isma'il. 


1.  God. 

2.  The  Universal  Reason  (Aql-i-Kulli),  manifested  in  the  Ndtiq 

or  Prophet. 

3.  The  Universal  Soul  (Nafs-i-Kulli),  manifested  in  the  Asds  or 

first  Imam. 

4.  Primal  Matter  (Hayyula,  >/  w\i/),  manifested  in  the  Sdmils  or 

Imams. 


410  THE  ISMAiLJ  SECT 

5.  Space,  or  Pleroma   (al-Mald),   manifested    in    the   Hujjal  or 

"  Proof." 

6.  Time,    or    Kenoma    (al-Khala),    manifested    in    the    Dd'i    or 

Missionary. 

7.  ?  The  Material  Universe,  manifested  in  ?  The  Believer. 

Corresponding  still  with  the  dominant  number  are  the 
degrees  of  initiation  through  which,  according  to  his  capacity 
and  aptitude,  the  proselyte  is  successively  lead  by  the  ddll ; 
though  these  were  afterwards  raised  to  nine  (perhaps  to  agree 
with  the  nine  celestial  spheres,  i.e.,  the  seven  planetary  spheres, 
the  Sphere  of  the  Fixed  Stars,  and  the  Empyrean).  These 
degrees  arc  very  fully  described  by  de  Sacy  (Expose,  vol.  i, 
pp.  Ixii-cxxxviii),  who  follows  in  the  main  the  account  of  the 
historian  an-Nuwayri  (t  A.D.  1332).  Before  speaking  of 
them,  however,  a  few  words  must  be  said  about  the  ddll  or 
propagandist. 

The  type  of  this  characteristically  Persian  figure  seems 
scarcely  to  have  varied  from  the  time  of  Abu  Muslim  to  the 
present  day,  when  the  ddll  of  the  Babis  still  goes  forth  on  his 
perilous  missions  between  Persia,  his  native  land,  and  Syria, 
where  his  spiritual  leaders  dwell  in  exile.  These  men  I  have 
described  from  personal  knowledge  in  another  book,1  and  I 
have  often  pleased  myself  with  the  thought  that,  thanks  to 
these  experiences,  it  is  almost  as  though  I  had  seen  with  my 
own  eyes  Abu  Muslim,  'Abdu'lldh  b.  Maymun  al-Qaddah, 
Hamdan  Qarmat,  and  other  heroes  of  the  'Abbasid  and  Isma'ili 
propaganda.  But  if  the  type  of  ddll  is,  so  far  as  we  can  judge, 
almost  unvarying  in  Western  Asia,  it  differs  very  greatly  from 
that  of  the  European  missionary,  whose  learning,  knowledge 
of  character  and  adaptability  to  circumstances  fall  short  by  as 
much  as  his  material  needs  and  national  idiosyncrasies  exceed 
those  of  the  dd^l. 

The   ddll   commonly   adopted    some   ostensible    profession, 

1  A  Year  amongst  the  Persians,  pp.  210-212,  271,  301  etscqq.,  331  tt  seqq., 
481-3,  &c. 


THE  ISMA'/L/  DOCTRINE  411 

such  as  that  of  a  merchant,  physician,  oculist,  or  the  like, 
and,  in  this  guise,  arrived  at  the  place  where  he  proposed  to 
begin  operations.1  In  the  first  instance  his  aim  was  to  impress 
his  neighbours  with  a  high  idea  of  his  piety  and  benevolence. 
To  this  end  he  was  constant  in  alms-giving  and  prayer,  until 
he  had  established  a  high  reputation  for  devout  living,  and  had 
gathered  round  him  a  circle  of  admirers.  To  these,  especially 
to  such  as  appeared  most  apt  to  receive  them,  he  began  gradu- 
ally and  cautiously  to  propound  his  doctrines,  striving  espe- 
cially to  arouse  the  curiosity  of  his  hearers,  to  awaken  in  them 
a  spirit  of  inquiry,  and  to  impress  them  with  a  high  opinion  of 
his  wisdom,  but  prepared  at  any  moment  to  draw  back  if  they 
showed  signs  of  restiveness  or  suspicion.  Thus  he  speaks  of 
Religion  as  a  Hidden  Science,  insists  on  the  symbolic  character 
of  its  prescriptions,  and  hints  that  the  outward  observance  of 
Prayer,  the  Fast,  the  Pilgrimage,  and  Alms-giving  is  of  little 
value  if  their  spiritual  significance  be  not  understood.  If 
curiosity  and  an  eagerness  to  learn  more  are  manifested  by  his 
hearer,  the  dall  begins  an  explanation,  but  breaks  it  off  in  the 
middle,  hinting  that  such  divine  mysteries  may  only  be  dis- 
closed to  one  who  has  taken  the  oath  of  allegiance  to  the 
Imam  of  the  age,  the  chosen  representative  of  God  on  earth, 
and  the  sole  repository  of  this  Hidden  Science,  which  he 
confides  only  to  such  as  prove  themselves  worthy  to  receive 
it.  The  primary  aim  of  the  ddll  is,  indeed,  mainly  to  secure 
from  the  proselyte  this  allegiance,  ratified  by  a  binding  oath 
and  expressed  by  the  periodical  payment  of  a  tribute  of  money. 
Of  the  questions  whereby  he  seeks  to  excite  the  neophyte's 
curiosity  the  following  are  specimens  : — 

"Why  did  God  take  seven  days  to  create  the  universe,  when  He 
could  just  as  easily  have  created  it  in  a  single  moment  ?" 

"What  in  reality  are  the  torments  of  Hell  ?     How  can  it  be  true 


1  The  particulars  which  follow  are  almost  entirely  drawn  from  de  Sacy 
(Expose,  pp.  Ixxiv-cxxxviii),  who  cites  the  account  of  Akhii  Muhsin  given 
by  Nuwayri. 


412  THE  ISM  A  fLI  SECT 

that  the  skins  of  the  damned  will  be  changed  into  other  skins,  in 
order  that  these,  which  have  not  participated  in  their  sins,  may  be 
submitted  to  the  Torment  of  the  Fire  ?  " 

"What  are  the  Seven  Gates  of  Hell- Fire  and  the  Eight  Gates  of 
Paradise  ? " 

"  Why  were  the  heavens  created  according  to  the  number  Seven, 
and  the  Earths  likewise  ?  And  why,  also,  is  the  first  chapter  of  the 
Qur'an  composed  of  seven  verses  ? " 

"  What  means  this  axiom  of  the  philosophers,  that  man  is  a  little 
world  (Microcosm)  and  the  World  a  magnified  man  ?  Why  does 
man,  contrary  to  all  other  animals,  carry  himself  erect  ?  Why  has 
he  ten  digits  on  the  hands,  and  as  many  on  the  feet  ;  and  why  are 
four  digits  of  the  hand  divided  each  into  three  phalanges,  while  the 
thumb  has  only  two  ?  Why  has  the  face  alone  seven  apertures,1 
while  in  all  the  rest  of  the  body  there  are  but  two  ?  Why  has  he 
twelve  dorsal  and  seven  cervical  vertebras  ?  Why  has  his  head  the 
form  of  the  letter  mim,  his  two  hands  that  of  a  fjd,  his  belly  that  of 
a  mim,  and  his  two  legs  that  of  a  ddl,  in  such  wise  that  he  forms,  as 
it  were,  a  written  book,  of  which  the  interpretation  is  the  name  of 
Muhammad  (M.H.M.D.)  ?  Why  does  his  stature,  when  erect, 
resemble  the  letter  alif,  while  when  he  kneels  it  resembles  the 
letter  lam,  and  when  he  is  prostrate  *  the  letter  hd,  in  such  wise  that 
he  forms,  as  it  were,  an  inscription  of  which  the  reading  is  Ildh 
(I.  L.  H.),  God  ? " 

"  Then,"  says  de  Sacy,3  "  addressing  themselves  to  those  who  listen 
to  them,  they  say  :  'Will  you  not  reflect  on  your  own  state  ?  Will 
you  not  meditate  attentively  on  it,  and  recognise  that  He  who  has 
created  you  is  wise,  that  He  does  not  act  by  chance,  that  He  has 
acted  in  all  this  with  wisdom,  and  that  it  is  for  secret  and  mysterious 
reasons  that  He  has  united  what  He  has  united,  and  divided  what 
He  has  divided  ?  How  can  you  imagine  that  it  is  permissible  for 
you  to  turn  aside  your  attention  from  all  these  things,  when  you 
hear  these  words  .of  God  (Quran,  li,  20-21)  :  "There are  signs  on  the 
earth  to  those  who  believe  with  a  firm  faith  ;  and  in  your  own  selves  ; 
will  ye  not  then  consider?"  And  again  (Qur'an,  xiv,  30),  "And  God 
propounds  unto  mankind  parables,  that  perchance  they  may  reflect 
thereon.'"  And  again  (Qur'an,  xli,  53),  "  We  will  show  them  our  signs 
in  the  horizons  and  in  themselves,  that  it  may  become  clear  unto  them 


1  See  p.  408  supra. 

3  These  are  the  three  positions  in  prayer  named  qiydm,  ruku1,  and 
sujud. 

3  Op.  cit.,  pp.  Ixxxvii-lxxxix. 


THE  ISMA'fLf  DOCTRINE  413 

that  this  is  the  Tntlh."  .  .  .  And  again  (Qur'dn,  xvii,  74),  "  Whosoever 
is  blind  in  respect  to  [the  tilings  of]  this  life  is  also  blind  in  respect  to 
[the  things  of]  the  other  life,  and  follows  a  misleading  path."  ' 

Finally,  by  some  or  all  of  these  means,  the  dd'l  prevails  upon 
the  neophyte  to  take  the  oath  of  allegiance,  saying  r — 

"  Bind  yourself,  then,  by  placing  thy  right  hand  in  mine,  and 
promise  me,  with  the  most  inviolable  oaths  and  assurances,  that 
you  will  never  divulge  our  secret,  that  you  will  not  lend  assistance  to 
any  one,  be  it  who  it  may,  against  us,  that  you  will  set  no  snare  for 
us,  that  you  will  not  speak  to  us  aught  but  the  truth,  and  that  you 
will  not  league  yourself  with  any  of  our  enemies  against  us." 

The  full  form  of  the  oath  will  be  found,  by  such  as  are 
curious  as  to  its  details,  at  pp.  cxxxviii-cxlvii  of  de  Sacy's 
Expose. 

The  further  degrees  of  initiation  are  briefly  as  follows  : — 

Second  Degree.  The  neophyte  is  taught  to  believe  that  God's 
approval  cannot  be  won  by  observing  the  prescriptions  of  Islam, 
unless  the  Inner  Doctrine,  of  which  they  are  mere  symbols,  be 
received  from  the  Imam  to  whom  its  guardianship  has  been 
entrusted. 

Third  Degree.  The  neophyte  is  instructed  as  to  the  nature  and 
number  of  the  Imams,  and  is  taught  to  recognise  the  significance 
in  the  spiritual  and  material  worlds  of  the  number  Seven  which  they 
also  represent.  He  is  thus  definitely  detached  from  the  Imdmiyya 
of  the  Sect  of  the  Twelve,  and  is  taught  to  regard  the  last  six  of  their 
Imams  as  persons  devoid  of  spiritual  knowledge  and  unworthy  of 
reverence. 

Fourth  Degree.  The  neophyte  is  now  taught  the  doctrine  of  the 
Seven  Prophetic  Periods,  of  the  nature  of  the  Ndtiq,  the  Sus  or  Asds 
and  the  remaining  six  Sdmits  ("  Silent "  Imams)8  who  succeed  the 
latter,  and  of  the  abrogation  by  each  Ndtiq  of  the  religion  of  his 
predecessor.  This  teaching  involves  the  admission  (which  definitely 
places  the  proselyte  outside  the  pale  of  Islam)  that  Muhammad  was 


1  De  Sacy  (op.  cit.,  p.  xciii). 

•  They  are  called  "  silent "  because,  unlike  the  Prophet  who  introduces 
each  Period,  they  utter  no  new  doctrine,  but  merely  teach  and  develop 
that  which  they  have  received  from  the  Ndftq. 


4H  THE  ISMAftf  SECT 

not  the  last  of  the  Prophets,  and  that  the  Qur'an  is  not  God's  final 
revelation  to  man.  With  Muhammad  b.  Isma'il,  the  Seventh  and 
Last  Ndtiq,  the  Qd'im  ("  He  who  ariseth "),  the  Sdhibu'l-Amr 
("Master  of  the  Matter"),  an  end  is  put  to  the  "Sciences  of  the 
Ancients"  ('Uhimu'l-awwalin),  and  the  Esoteric  (Bdtini)  Doctrine, 
the  Science  of  Allegorical  Interpretation  (ta'wil),  is  inaugurated. 

Fifth  Degree.  Here  the  proselyte  is  further  instructed  in  the 
Science  of  the  Numbers  and  in  the  applications  of  the  ta'wil,  so 
that  he  discards  many  of  the  traditions,  learns  to  speak  con- 
temptuously of  the  state  of  Religion,  pays  less  and  less  heed  to  the 
letter  of  Scripture,  and  looks  forward  to  the  abolition  of  all  the 
outward  observances  of  Islam.  He  is  also  taught  the  significance 
of  the  number  Twelve,  and  the  recognition  of  the  twelve  Hujjas  or 
"  Proofs,"  who  primarily  conduct  the  propaganda  of  each  Imam. 
These  are  typified  in  man's  body  by  the  twelve  dorsal  vertebrae, 
while  the  seven  cervical  vertebrae  represent  the  Seven  Prophets  and 
the  Seven  Imams  of  each. 

Sixth  Degree. — Here  the  proselyte  is  taught  the  allegorical  mean- 
ing of  the  rites  and  obligations  of  Islam,  such  as  prayer,  alms, 
pilgrimage,  fasting,  and  the  like,  and  is  then  persuaded  that  their 
outward  observance  is  a  matter  of  no  importance,  and  may  be 
abandoned,  since  they  were  only  instituted  by  wise  and  philo- 
sophical lawgivers  as  a  check  to  restrain  the  vulgar  and  unen- 
lightened herd. 

Seventh  Degree.  To  this  and  the  following  degrees  only  the 
leading  dd'is,  who  fully  comprehend  the  real  nature  and  aim  of 
their  doctrine,  can  initiate.  At  this  point  is  introduced  the  dualistic 
doctrine  of  the  Pre-existent  (al-Mufid,  as-Sdbiq)  and  the  Subsequent 
(al-Mustafid,  at-Tdli,  al-Ldhiq),  which  is  destined  ultimately  to 
undermine  the  proselyte's  belief  in  the  Doctrine  of  the  Divine 
Unity. 

Eighth  Degree.  Here  the  doctrine  last  mentioned  is  developed 
and  applied,  and  the  proselyte  is  taught  that  above  the  Pre-existent 
and  the  Subsequent  is  a  Being  who  has  neither  name,  nor  attribute, 
of  whom  nothing  can  be  predicated,  and  to  whom  no  worship  can 
be  rendered.  This  Nameless  Being  seems  to  represent  the  Zeruvdn 
Akarana  ("Boundless  Time")  of  the  Zoroastrian  system,  but,  as 
may  be  seen  by  referring  to  de  Sacy's  Expose  (pp.  cxxi-cxxx)  some 
confusion  exists  here,  and  different  teachings  were  current  amongst 
the  Isma'ilis,  which,  however,  agreed  in  this,  that,  to  quote  Nuwayri's 
expression,  "  those  who  adopted  them  could  no  longer  be  reckoned 
otherwise  than  amongst  the  Dualists  and  Materialists."  The  prose- 
lyte is  also  taught  that  a  Prophet  is  known  as  such  not  by  miracles, 


THE  ISMAfll  DOCTRINE  415 

but  by  his  ability  to  construct  and  impose  on  mnnkind  a  system  at 
once  political,  social,  religious,  and  philosophical — a  doctrine  which 
I  myself  have  heard  enunciated  amongst  the  Babis  in  Persia,  one  of 
whom  said  to  me  that  just  as  the  architect  proved  himself  to  be 
such  by  building  a  house,  or  the  physician  by  healing  sickness,  so 
the  prophet  proved  his  mission  by  founding  a  durable  religion.1 
He  is  further  taught  to  understand  allegorically  the  end  of  the 
world,  the  Resurrection,  Future  Rewards  and  Punishments,  and 
other  eschatological  doctrines. 

Ninth  Degree.  In  this,  the  last  degree  of  initiation,  every  vestige 
of  dogmatic  religion  has  been  practically  cast  aside,  and  the  initiate 
is  become  a  philosopher  pure  and  simple,  free  to  adopt  such  system 
or  admixture  of  systems  as  may  be  most  to  his  taste.  "  Often,"  says 
Nuwayri,  "  he  embraces  the  views  of  Manes  or  Bardesanes  ;  some- 
times he  adopts  the  Magian  system,  sometimes  that  of  Plato  or 
Aristotle  :  most  frequently  he  borrows  from  each  of  these  systems 
certain  notions  which  he  combines  together,  as  commonly  happens 
to  these  men,  who,  abandoning  the  Truth,  fall  into  a  sort  of  bewilder- 
ment." 

Space  does  not  permit  us  to  cite  the  pledge  or  covenant 
whereby  the  proselyte  bound  himself  to  obey  the  dfrl^  nor  to 
enlarge  on  the  methods  whereby  the  latter  sought  to  approach 
the  adherents  of  different  sects  and  creeds  in  order  to  gain 
their  allegiance.  For  these  and  other  most  interesting  matters 
we  must  refer  the  reader  to  de  Sacy's  Expose,  vol.  i,  pp. 
cxxxviii-clxiii  et  passim,  Guyard's  Fragments  relatifs  a  la 
Doctrine  des  Ismaelis  and  Un  Grand  maitre  des  Assassins ,  and 
other  monographs  alluded  to  in  the  notes  to  this  chapter. 
The  further  developments  of  this  sect  will  be  discussed  in 
another  portion  of  this  work. 

1  Cf.  my  Year  amongst  the  Persians,  pp.  303-306,  367-8,  &c. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

RELIGIOUS    MOVEMENTS   OF    THIS   PERIOD 

II.  THE  Surf  MYSTICISM. 

ALTHOUGH  the  full  development  of  that  system  or  pantheistic, 
idealistic,  and  theosophic  mysticism  known  amongst  Muham- 
madans  as  tasawwufy  and  in  Europe  as  Suflism  belongs  to  a 
rather  later  period  than  that  which  we  are  now  considering,  it 
was  already  when  the  Finrist  was  composed  (A.D.  987)  a 
recognised  school  of  thought,  and  may  therefore  conveniently 
be  considered  in  this  place,  more  particularly  as  some  know- 
ledge of  its  nature  and  teachings  is  essential  for  the  under- 
standing of  a  certain  proportion  of  even  the  older  Persian 
poets  who  lived  before  the  time  of  Sana'f  (circ.  A.D.  11.31), 
'Attar  (t  A.D.  1230)  and  Jaldlu'd-Din  Rumf  (t  A.D.  1273). 
Shaykh  Abu  Sa'id  b.  Abi'l-Khayr  (t  A.D.  1049),  whose  mys- 
tical quatrains  form  the  subject  of  one  of  Dr.  Ethe's  excellent 
monographs,1  and  for  whose  biography  we  possess,  thanks  to 
Professor  Zhukovski,  unusually  copious  materials,2  was  perhaps 
the  first  purely  mystical  Persian  poet  whose  works  have  sur- 
vived to  our  time,  but  Sufi  influences  may  be  traced  in  the 

1  Published  in  the  Sitzungsberichte  der  KSnigl-bayer.  Akad.  d.  Wissen- 
schaften  for  1875,  Phil.  hist.  Cl.,  pp.  145-168. 

2  These  texts  were  published  in  St.  Petersburg  in  1899,  and  comprise 
the  Life  and  Sayings  of  the  Saint  (pp.  78),  and  the  Mysteries  of  the  Divine 
Unity  with  the  Risdla-i-Hawrd'iyya  (pp.  493). 

416 


ETYMOLOGY  OF  "  StfFf''  417 

writings  of  some  of  his  contemporaries  if  not  of  his  prede- 
cessors. 

A  number  of  derivations  have  been  proposed  at  different 

times  for  the  term  Suff,  but  it  is  now  quite  certain  that  it  is 

derived  from  the  word  suf,  "  wool,"  which  view  is 

derivation  of  the  confirmed  by  the  equivalent  pashmina-push.  "  wool- 
term  Sufi.  ,.     .  ,  •         •        D       • 

wearer,  applied  to  these  mystics  m  Persian. 
From  the  earliest  times  woollen  raiment  was  regarded  as 
typical  of  that  simplicity  of  life  and  avoidance  of  ostentation 
and  luxury  enjoined  by  the  Prophet  and  his  immediate 
successors,  as  clearly  appears  from  Mas'udPs  account  of  the 
11  Orthodox  Caliphs"  in  the  JMuruju'dh-Dhahab.*  The 
term  Suff  was  therefore  in  later  times  applied  to  those 
ascetic  and  pious  devotees  who,  like  the  early  Quakers  in 
England,  made  the  simplicity  of  their  apparel  a  silent  protest 
against  the  growing  luxury  of  the  worldly.  It  does  not 
appear  to  have  come  into  use  till  about  the  middle  of  the 
second  century  of  the  Flight  (end  of  the  eighth  century  of  our 
era),  for  Jamf  expressly  states  in  his  Nafahdtul-Uns  (ed. 
Nassau-Lees,  p.  34)  that  it  was  first  applied  to  Abu  Hashim 
the  Syrian,  a  contemporary  of  Sufyan  ath-Thawri,  who  died  in 
A.D.  777.  This  derivation  may  be  regarded  as  quite  certain, 
and  it  is  sufficient  merely  to  mention  the  attempts  made  to 
connect  the  word  with  the  Greek  <ro<£de,  the  Arabic  soft, 
"purity"  (a  fanciful  etymology  favoured  by  Jamf  in  his 
Bahdristdn),  or  the  mendicant  ahlus-Suffd  ("  People  of  the 
Bench ")  of  early  Muhammadan  times.3  Al-Qushayrf,3 
indeed,  is  quite  explicit  as  to  the  period  when  this  term  first 

1  See  the  extract  at  the  end  of  Socin's  Arabic  Grammar  (English  edition 
of  1885),  pp.  72-3,  75,  76,  and  77. 

3  See  Herman  Frank's  Bcitrag  zur  Erkenntniss  des  Sufismus  (Leipzig, 
1884),  pp.  8-10. 

3  'Abdu'l-Karim  b.  Hawazin  al-Qushayri  (f  A.D.  1046-7),  the  author  of 
the  well-known  Sufi  treatise  entitled  ar-Risdlatu'l-Qushayriyya,  which 
was  printed  at  Bulaq  in  A.M.  1284  (A.D.  1867).  The  passage  in  question  is 
cited  by  Jaini  at  p.  31  of  Nassau-Lees's  edition  of  the  Nafahdt, 

28 


4J8  THE  StfFf  MYSTICISM 

came  into  use,  viz.,  a  little  before  A.H.  200  (A.D.  816)  ;  and 
the  earliest  Sufi  writer  known  to  the  author  of  the  Fihrist 
seems  to  have  been  Yahya  b.  Mu'adh  of  Ray  (probably,  there- 
fore, a  Persian),  whose  death  he  places  in  A.H.  206  (A.D. 
82 1-2). T  Still  earlier  mystics  (who,  whether  so  entitled  or 
not,  were  essentially  Stiffs,  and  are  claimed  as  such  by  their 
successors)  were  Ibrdhfm  Adham  (t  circ.  A.D.  777),  D&'iid 
at-Ta'i  (t  A.D.  781-2),  Fudayl  clyad  (t  A.D.  803),  and  the 
woman  Rabi'a  al-'Adawiyya,  who  was  a  contemporary  of  the 
above-mentioned  Sufyan  ath-Thawrf.  The  beginnings  of 
Sufiism  may,  in  short,  be  pretty  certainly  placed  at  the  end  of 
the  eighth  and  beginning  of  the  ninth  centuries  of  our  era. 
The  views  which  have  been  advanced  as  to  the  nature, 
origin,  and  source  of  the  Stiff  doctrine  are  as 

Theories  as  to  °  '.  ..... 

the  origin  of     divergent    as    the    etymologies    by    which    it    is 

SiUiism.  i    •       •  T»   . 

proposed  to  explain  its  name.     Briefly  they  may 
be  described  as  follows  : — 

(i)  The  theory  that  it  really  represents  the  Esoteric  Doctnne  of 
the  Prophet.  This  is  the  prevalent  view  of  the  Sufis  themselves, 
and  of  those  Muhanimadans  who  are  more  or  less  in 
sympathy  with  them;  and  though  it  can  hardly  com- 
mend itself  to  European  scholars,  it  is  by  no  means  so 
absurd  or  untenable  a  hypothesis  as  is  often  assumed  in  Europe. 
Without  insisting  too  much  on  the  (probably  spurious)  traditions 
constantly  cited  by  the  Sufis  as  the  basis  of  their  doctrine,  such  as 
God's  alleged  declaration,  "  I  was  a  Hidden  Treasure  and  I  desired 
to  be  known,  therefore  I  created  Creation  that  I  might  be  known  j  "  or, 
"  God  was,  and  there  was  naught  beside  Him ; "  or,  "  Whosoever 
knoweth  himself  knowdh  his  Lord  ;  "  there  are  in  the  Quran  itself  a 
few  texts  which  lend  themselves  to  a  mystical  interpretation,  as,  for 
instance,  the  words  addressed  to  the  Prophet  concerning  his  victory 
over  the  heathen  at  the  battle  of  Badr  (Qur'an,  viii,  17)  :  "  Thou 
didst  not  shoot  when  thou  didst  shoot,  but  God  shot."  This  on  the  face 
of  it  means  no  more  than  that  God  strengthened  the  arms  of  the 
Muslims  against  their  foes  ;  but  it  involves  no  great  straining  of  the 


*  Jami,  however,  gives  A.H.  258  (A.D.  872)  as  the  date  of  his  death 
(Nafahdt,  p.  62). 


THEORIES  OF  ITS  ORIGIN  419 

words  to  deduce  therefrom  that  God  is  the  Absolute  Agent  (Fa"dl-i- 
Mutlaq)  and  man  but  "  as  the  pen  between  the  fingers  of  the  scribe, 
who  turns  it  as  he  will."  However  little  a  critical  examination  of  the 
oldest  and  most  authentic  records  of  the  Prophet's  life  and  teachings 
would  warrant  us  in  regarding  him  as  a  mystic  or  ascribing  to  him 
an  esoteric  doctrine,  it  must  be  avowed  without  reserve  that  such  is 
the  view  taken  by  the  more  moderate  Siifis,  and  even  of  such 
philosophically  minded  theologians  as  al-Ghazzali  (f  A.D.  1111-2). 

(2)  The  theory  that  it  must  be  regarded  as  the  reaction  of  the 
Aryan  mind  against  a  Semitic    religion  imposed  upon  it  by  force. 

This  theory   has  two  forms,  which   may  be    briefly 

2.  The1;  Aryan    described  as  the  Indian  and  the  Persian.     The  former, 

theory.         taking  note  of  certain  obvious  resemblances   which 

exist  between  the  Sufi  doctrines  in  their  more  advanced 
forms  and  some  of  the  Indian  systems,  notably  the  Vedanta  Sara, 
assumes  that  this  similarity  (which  has,  in  my  opinion,  been  exag- 
gerated, and  is  rather  superficial  than  fundamental)  shows  that  these 
systems  have  a  common  origin,  which  must  be  sought  in  India. 
The  strongest  objection  to  this  view  is  the  historical  fact  that 
though  in  Sasanian  times,  notably  in  the  sixth  century  of  our  era, 
during  the  reign  of  Nushirwan,  a  certain  exchange  of  ideas  took 
place  between  Persia  and  India,  no  influence  can  be  shown  to  have 
been  exerted  by  the  latter  country  on  the  former  (still  less  on  other 
of  the  lands  of  Islam)  during  Muhammadan  times  till  after  the  full 
development  of  the  Sufi  system,  which  was  practically  completed 
when  al-Biruni,  one  of  the  first  Musulmans  who  studied  the  Sanskrit 
language  and  the  geography,  history,  literature,  and  thoughts  of 
India,  wrote  his  famous  Memoir  on  these  subjects.  In  much  later 
times  it  is  likely  enough,  as  shown  by  von  Kremer,1  that  considerable 
influence  was  exerted-  by  Indian  ideas  on  the  development  of 
Sufiism.  The  other,  or  Persian,  form  of  the  "Aryan  Reaction 
theory"  would  regard  Sufiism  as  an  essentially  Persian  product. 
Our  comparative  ignorance  of  the  undercurrents  of  thought  in 
Sasanian  times  makes  it  very  difficult  to  test  this  theory  by  the  only 
safe  method,  the  historical ;  but,  as  we  have  already  seen,  by  no 
means  all  the  early  Sufis  were  of  Persian  nationality,  and  some  of 
the  most  notable  and  influential  mystics  of  later  times,  such  as 
Shaykh  Muhyiyyu'd-Din  ibnu'l  'Arabi  (f  A.D.  1240-1),  and  Ibnu'l 
Farid  (f  A.D.  1234-5),  were  men  of  Arabic  speech  in  whose  veins 
there  was  not  a  drop  of  Persian  blood.  Yet  the  first  of  these  exerted 


1  Culturgeschichtliche   Streifzuge  auf  dem  Gebicte  des  hldms  (Leip/ig, 
1873),  PP-  45-55- 


420  THE  $tfFI  MYSTICISM 

an  enormous  influence  over  many  of  the  most  typical  Persian  Sufis, 
such  as  'Iraqi  (f  A.D.  1287),  whose  Lama'dt  was  wholly  inspired  by 
his  writings,  Awhadu'd-Din  Kirmani  (f  A.D.  1297-8),  and  indirectly 
on  the  much  later  Jami  (f  A.D.  1492-3),  while  even  at  the  present 
day  his  works  (especially  the  Fususu' l-hikam)  are  widely  read  and 
diligently  studied  by  Persian  mystics. 

(3)  The  theory  oj  Neo-Platonist  influence.    So  far  as  Sufiism  was 

not  an  independent  manifestation  of  that  mysticism  which,  because 

it  meets  the  requirements  and  satisfies  the  cravings  of 

3-  Theory  of     a  certain   class  of  minds  existing  in  all  ages  and  in 

Neo-Platonist  .... 

origin.  most  civilised  communities,  must  be  regarded  as  a 
spontaneous  phenomenon,  recurring  in  many  similar 
but  unconnected  forms  wherever  the  human  mind  continues  to 
concern  itself  with  the  problems  of  the  Wherefore,  the  Whence, 
and  the  Whither  of  the  Spirit,  it  is  probable  that  it  has  been  more 
indebted  to  Neo-Platonism  than  to  any  other  system.  This  view, 
which  I  have  long  held,  has  been  very  admirably  worked  out  by  my 
friend  and  pupil  Mr.  R.  A.  Nicholson  in  his  Selected  Poems  from  the 
Divdn-i-Shams-i-Tabriz  (Cambridge,  1898),  pp.  xxx-xxxvi;  but  he  is 
mistaken  in  stating  (p.  xxx)  that  "  the  name  of  Plotinus  was  unknown 
in  the  East,"  for  this  philosopher  is  explicitly  mentioned  by  name 
in  the  Fihrist  (p.  255),  though  he  is  more  general!)'  referred  to  (e.g., 
by  Shahristani,  in  his  Kitdbu'l-Milal)  as  "the  Greek  Teacher" 
(ash-Shay khu'l-Yundni).1  Porphyry,  however,  was  much  better 
known  to  the  Muslims,  and  seven  or  eight  of  his  writings  are 
enumerated  in  the  Fihrist  (p.  253).  But  even  admitting  the  connec- 
tion between  Neo-Platonism  and  Sufiism,  there  remain  several 
subsidiary  questions  to  which  it  is  not  possible,  in  the  present  state 
of  our  knowledge,  to  give  a  definite  answer  :  such  as — (i)  "  What 
elements  of  their  philosophy  did  the  Neo-Platonists  originally 
borrow  from  the  East,  and  especially  from  Persia,2  which  country 
Plotinus  visited,  as  we  learn  from  his  biographer  Porphyry,  expressly 
to  study  the  systems  of  philosophy  there  taught  ?  " 3  (2)  "  To  what 


1  See  Haarbrucker's  translation  of  Shahristani,  vol.  ii,  pp.  192  et  seqq, 
and  429-430. 

3  Bouillet  in  his  translation  of  the  Enneads  of  Plotinus  (Paris,  1857) 
speaks  (p.  xiii.)  of  "  la  filiation  qui  existe  entre  certaines  idees  de  Plotin  et 
les  doctrines  mystiques  de  1'Orient  ;  "  and  again  (p.  xxviij  of  "  la  trace  des 
doctrines  theologiques  tirees  de  1'Orient." 

3  Idem,  p.  41  :  "  II  prit  un  si  grand  gout  pour  la  philosophic  qu'il  se 
proposa  d'etudier  celle  qui  etait  enseignee  chez  les  Perses  et  celle  qui 
prevalait  chez  les  Indiens.  Lorsque  1'empereur  Gordien  se  prepara  a  faire 
son  expedition  centre  les  Perses,  Plotin,  alors  age  de  trente-neuf  ans,  se  mit 


THEORIES  OF  ITS  ORIGIN  421 

extent  did  the  seven  Neo-Platonist  philosophers  who,  driven  from 
their  homes  by  the  intolerance  of  Justinian,  took  refuge  at  the 
Persian  court  in  the  reign  of  Nushirwan  (about  A.D.  532)  found  a 
school  or  propagate  their  ideas  in  that  country  ? "  x  In  the  ninth 
century  of  our  era,  in  the  Golden  Age  of  Islam,  the  Neo-Platonist 
philosophy  was  certainly  pretty  well  known  to  thinking  Muslims, 
but  till  the  two  questions  posed  above  have  received  a  definite 
answer  we  cannot  exclude  the  possibility  that  its  main  doctrines 
were  familiar  to,  if  not  derived  from,  the  East  at  a  very  much  earlier 
date. 

(4)  The  theory  of  independent  origin.  As  has  been  already 
hinted,  there  remains  the  possibility  that  the  Sufi  mysticism  may  be 
an  entirely  independent  and  spontaneous  growth.  "  The  identity 
of  two  beliefs,"  as  Mr.  Nicholson  well  remarks  (op.  cit.,  p.  xxx), 
"  does  not  prove  that  one  is  generated  by  the  other  :  they  may  be 
results  of  a  like  cause."  Any  one  who  has  read  that  charming  work, 
Vaughan's  Hours  with  the  Mystics,  will  easily  recall  to  mind  some  of 
the  many  striking  resemblances,  both  in  substance  and  form,  in  the 
utterances  of  mystics  of  the  most  various  creeds,  countries,  and 
epochs,  between  whom  it  is  practically  certain  that  no  external 
relation  whatever  can  have  existed ;  and  I  would  venture  to  assert 
that  many  of  the  utterances  of  Eckart,  Tauler,  or  Santa  Teresa 
would,  if  translated  into  Persian,  easily  pass  current  as  the  words  of 
Sufi  Shaykhs. 

Now  we  must  not  fall  into  the  error  of  regarding  Sufiism  as 
a  doctrine  equally  definite  and  systematised  with  that,  for 
example,  of  the  Isma'flls,  which  was  considered  in  the  last 
chapter.  The  Sufi  is  essentially  an  eclectic,  and  generally  a 
latitudinarian  :  "  the  ways  of  God,"  says  one  of  his  favourite 
aphorisms,  "  are  as  the  number  of  the  souls  of  men  ; "  while 
the  tradition,  "  Seek  knowledge,  were  it  even  in  China,"  is 
constantly  on  his  tongue.  No  one,  perhaps,  did  more  to  gain 
for  Sufiism  a  good  repute  and  to  give  it  a  philosophical  form 

a  la  suite  de  1'armee.  II  avait  passe  dix  a  onze  annees  entieres  pres 
d'Ammonius.  Gordien  ayant  etc  tue  en  Mesopotamie,  Plotin  cut  assez  de 
peine  a  se  sauver  a  Antioche." 

1  See  ch.  xl  of  Gibbon's  Decline  and  Fall  (ed.  1813,  vol.  vii,  pp.  149-152). 
Agathius  is  Ihe  chief  authority  for  this  curious  episode.  The  philosophers 
in  question  were  Diogenes,  Hermias,  Eulalius,  Priscian,  Damascius, 
Uidore,  and  Simplicius. 


422  THE  StfFf  MYSTICISM 

than  the  great  theologian  al-Ghazzali,  "  The  Proof  of  Islam  " 
(t  A.D.  1 1 11-1112),  and  this  is  how  he  describes  his  eagerness 
to  understand  every  point  of  view  in  his  treatise  entitled 
al-^iunqidh  mlnad-Dalal  ("The  Deliverer  from  Error") : — 

"  In  the  prime  of  my  youth,  since  I  was  come  to  full  understand- 
ing and  ere  I  reached  my  twentieth  year,  until  this  present  time, 
when  my  age  exceedeth  two  score  and  ten,  I  have  never  ceased  to 
explore  the  depths  of  this  deep  sea,  or  to  plunge  into  its  expanse  as 
plunges  the  bold,  not  the  timorous  and  cautious  diver,  penetrating 
into  every  dark  recess,  attacking  every  difficulty,  braving  every 
whirlpool,  investigating  the  creed  of  every  sect  and  unravelling  the 
mysteries  of  every  school,  in  order  that  I  might  learn  to  distinguish 
between  the  true  and  the  false,  the  observer  of  authorised  practices 
and  the  heretical  innovator.  Wherefore  I  never  meet  a  Biilini 
("  Esoteric,"  i.e.,  Isma'ili)  without  desiring  to  inform  myself  of  his 
Esotericism  (Batiniyyat),  nor  a  Dhahiri  ("  Externalist,"  "  Litteralist ") 
without  wishing  to  know  the  outcome  of  his  Externalism  (Djhahiriyyaf), 
nor  a  philosopher  without  endeavouring  to  understand  the  essence 
of  his  philosophy,  nor  a  schoolman  (Mutakallim)  without  striving  to 
comprehend  the  result  of  his  scholasticism  (Kaldm)  and  his  contro- 
versial method,  nor  a  Siifi  without  longing  to  divine  the  secret  of  his 
mysticism,  nor  a  devout  believer  without  wishing  to  ascertain  what 
he  hath  gained  by  his  devotion,  nor  a  heretic  (Zindiq)  nor  an  atheist 
without  endeavouring  to  discover  behind  him  an  admonition  as  to 
the  causes  which  have  emboldened  him  to  profess  his  atheistical  or 
heretical  doctrine.  A  thirst  to  comprehend  the  essential  natures  of 
all  things  was,  indeed,  my  idiosyncrasy  and  distinctive  characteristic 
from  the  beginning  of  my  career  and  prime  of  my  life  :  a  natural 
gift  and  temperament  bestowed  on  me  by  God,  and  implanted  by 
Him  in  my  nature  by  no  choice  or  device  of  mine  own,  till  at  length 
the  bond  of  blind  conformity  was  loosed  from  me,  and  the  beliefs 
which  I  had  inherited  were  broken  away  when  I  was  yet  little  more 
than  a  boy." 

Suflism,  then,  by  reason  or  that  quietism,  eclecticism  and 
latitudinarianism  which  are  amongst  its  most  characteristic 
features,  is  the  very  antithesis,  in  many  ways,  to  such  definite 
doctrines  as  the  Manichaean,  the  Isma'ili,  and  others,  and  would 
be  more  justly  described  as  an  indefinite  immobility  than  as 
a  definite  movement.  This  point  is  often  overlooked,  and 


RELATION  TO  OTHER  SECTS          423 

even  scholars — especially  such  as  have  never  visited  the  East — 
often  speak  of  such  sects  as  the  Isma'ilis  or  the  Babi's  of  to-day 
as  though  they  were  akin  to  the  Siiffs,  whereas  a  great  hostility 
usually  exists  between  them,  the  natural  antagonism  between 
dogmatism  and  eclecticism.  The  Babfs  in  particular  equal 
their  Shf'ite  foes  in  their  hatred  of  the  Sufi's,  whose  point  of 
view  is  quite  incompatible  with  the  exclusive  claims  of  a 
positive  and  dogmatic  creed,  and  this  same  abhorrence  of  the 
Suff  latitudinarianism  is  very  noticeable  in  the  writings  of  the 
Christian  missionary  Henry  Martyn.  As  for  the  ShI'ite  mul/ds, 
their  general  attitude  towards  the  Sufi's  is  admirably  depicted 
by  Morier  in  the  twentieth  chapter  of  his  incomparable  Hajji 
Baba.  Yet  Svifiism  has  at  various  times,  more  especially, 
perhaps,  in  Sunn!  countries,  stood  the  orthodox  in  good  stead, 
and  any  one  who  is  familiar  with  the  Mathnaiul  of  that 
greatest  of  all  the  Stiff  poets,  Jalalu'd-Dfn  Rumi,  will  recall 
passages  directed  against  the  Mu'tazilites,  philosophers,  and  other 
free-thinkers.  And  many  of  those  who  suffered  death  for 
their  religious  opinions,  though  subsequently  canonised  by  the 
Sufis,  were  in  reality  the  exponents  of  various  heretical 
doctrines  ;  as  was  the  case,  for  instance,  with  Husayn  b. 
Mansur  al-Hallaj  (of  whom  something  will  be  said  later  in 
this  chapter),  who  appears  to  have  been  a  dangerous  and  able 
intriguer,  in  close  touch  with  the  Carmathians  ;  with 
Shaykh  Shihabu'd-Dm  Yahya  Suhrawardf  "the  Martyr" 
(al-Maqtul,  put  to  death  in  A.D.  1191),  the  author  of  the 
Hikmatul-hhrAq  ("  Philosophy  of  Illumination,") T  who,  as 
Jamf  tells  us  (Nafahdt,  pp.  683-4)  was  charged  with  atheism, 
heresy,  and  believing  in  the  ancient  philosophers ;  with 
Fadlu'llah  the  inventor  of  the  Hurufi  doctrine,2  who  was  put 
to  death  by  Timur  in  A.D.  1401—2,  and  his  follower  Nasfmf, 

1  Not  to  be  confounded  with  Shaykh  Shihabu'd-Din  'Umar  Suhrawardf, 
with  whom  Sa'di  was  acquainted  (Bustdn.  ed.  Graf,  p.  150),  and  who  died 
in  A.D.  1234-5. 

1  See  my  article  on  this  sect  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1898, 
pp.  61-94  i  and  Gibb's  History  of  Ottoman  Poetry,  vol.  i,  pp.  336-388. 


424  THE  StfFf  MYSTICISM 

the  Turkish  poet,  who  was  flayed  alive  at  Aleppo  in  A.D. 
1417-8.  The  garb  of  a  Siirl  dervish  or  religious  mendicant 
was  one  of  the  most  obvious  disguises  for  a  heretical  propa- 
gandist to  assume,  and  in  fact  it  was  on  numerous  occasions 
adopted  by  the  fidtfls  of  the  Assassins. 

But  even  the  genuine  Sufis  differed  considerably  one  from 
another,  for  their  system  was  essentially  individualistic  and 
little  disposed  towards  propagandism.  The  fully  developed 
lArif^  "  Gnostic  "  or  Adept,  had  passed  through  many  grades 
and  a  long  course  of  discipline  under  various  pirsy  munhids, 
or  spiritual  directors,  ere  he  had  attained  to  the  Gnosis  ^Irfan] 
which  viewed  all  existing  religions  as  more  or  less  faint  utter- 
ances of  that  great  underlying  Truth  with  which  he  had 
finally  entered  into  communion  ;  and  he  neither  conceived 
it  as  possible  nor  desirable  to  impart  his  conceptions  of  this 
Truth  to  any  save  those  few  who,  by  a  similar  training,  were 
prepared  to  receive  it.  The  three  great  classes  into  which 
Vaughan  divides  all  mystics,  the  theosophic,  the  theopathetic, 
and  the  theurgic,  are  all  represented  amongst  the  Sufis ;  but 
it  is  the  second  which  most  prevails  in  the  earlier  time  which 
we  are  chiefly  considering  in  this  chapter.  If  we  read  what 
is  recorded  in  the  hagiologies  of  al-Qushayrf,  al-Yafi'I,  Faridu 
'd-Din  'Attar,  Jamf,  and  others,  concerning  the  earlier  Sufis, 
such  as  Ibrahim  Adham  (t  A.D.  777-8),  and  his  contem- 
poraries Sufydn  ath-Thawrf,  Da'ud  of  Tayy,  Abu  Hashim 
and  the  woman  Rabi'a  al-'Adawiyya,  or  of  Fudayl  'lyad 
(t  A.D.  803),  Ma'ruf  of  Karkh  (t  A.D.  815-6),'  Bishr  b'. 
al-Harith  (t  A.D.  841-2),  Ahmad  b.  Khidrawayh  (t  A.D. 
854-5),  al-Muhasibf  (t  A.D.  857-8),  Dhu'n-Nun  of  Egypt 
(t  A.D.  859-860),  Sird  as-Saqatf  (t  A.D.  867)  and  the  like, 
we  find  their  utterances  reflecting  little  more  than  a  devout 
quietism,  an  earnest  desire  for  something  deeper  and  more 
satisfying  to  ardent  souls  than  the  formalism  generally 
prevalent  in  Islam,  and  a  passionate  love  of  God  for  His 
own  sake,  not  for  the  sake  of  the  rewards  or  punishments 


APHORISMS  425 

which  He  may  bestow.  The  following  sayings,  taken  almost 
at  random  from  the  biographies  of  some  of  the  above- 
mentioned  devotees  given  by  'Attar  in  his  Tadhkirattil- 
Awllya  and  by  J&m(  in  his  Nafahdt  and  Baharistdn  will 
sufficiently  serve  to  illustrate  this  point. 

Sayings  of  Ibrdhim  Adham.  "O  God,  Thou  knowest  that  in  mine 
eyes  the  Eight  Paradises  weigh  no  more  than  the  wing  of  a  gnat 
compared  with  that  honour  which  Thou  hast  shown  me  in  giving 
me  Thy  love,  or  that  familiarity  which  Thou  hast  given  to  me  by 
the  commemoration  of  Thy  Name,  or  that  freedom  from  all  else 
which  Thou  hast  vouchsafed  to  me  when  I  meditate  on  the 
Greatness  of  Thy  Glory."  ('Attar.) 

Being  once  asked  why  he  had  abandoned  his  kingdom  of 
Balkh,  he  replied — 

"  One  day  I  was  seated  on  the  throne  when  a  mirror  was  presented 
to  me.  I  looked  therein,  and  perceived  that  my  destination  was  the 
tomb,  wherein  I  should  have  no  friend  to  cheer  me,  and  that  I  had 
before  me  a  long  journey  for  which  I  had  made  no  provision.  I 
saw  a  Just  Judge,  and  myself  equipped  with  no  proof,  and  my 
kingdom  grew  distasteful  to  my  heart."  (Attdr.) 

A  man  offered  him  ten  thousand  dirhamsy  but  he  refused 
them,  saying — 

"  Wouldst  thou  for  such  a  sum  of  money  erase  my  name  from 
the  register  of  Dervishes?"  ('Attdr.') 

"Three  veils  must  be  removed  from  before  the  Pilgrim's  heart 
ere  the  Door  of  Happiness  is  opened  to  him.  First,  that  should  the 
dominion  of  both  worlds  be  offered  to  him  as  an  Eternal  Gift,  he 
should  not  rejoice,  since  whosoever  rejoiceth  on  account  of  any 
created  thing  is  still  covetous,  and  '  the  covetous  man  is  debarred ' 
(from  the  knowledge  of  God). '  The  second  veil  is  this,  that  should 
he  possess  the  dominion  of  both  worlds,  and  should  it  be  taken  from 
him,  he  should  not  sorrow  for  his  empoverishment,  for  this  is  the 
sign  of  wrath,  and  '  he  who  is  in  wrath  is  tormented.'  The  third  is 
that  he  should  not  be  beguiled  by  any  praise  or  favour,  for  whoever 
is  so  beguiled  is  of  mean  spirit,  and  such  an  one  is  veiled  (from  the 
Truth)  :  the  Pilgrim  must  be  high-minded."  ('Attar.) 


426  THE  $tfFJ  MYSTICISM 

Sayings  of  Sufy an  alh-Thawri.  "When  the  dervish  frequents  the 
rich,  know  that  he  is  a  hypocrite  ;  but  when  he  frequents  kings, 
know  that  he  is  a  thief."  (Attar.) 

"  Glory  be  to  that  God  who  slays  our  children,  and  takes  away 
our  wealth,  and  whom  withal  we  love."  (Attdr.) 

"  If  thou  art  better  pleased  when  one  saith  unto  thee,  '  Thou  art 
a  fine  fellow,'  than  when  one  saith  unto  thee,  '  Thou  art  a  rascal,' 
then  know  that  thou  art  still  a  bad  man."  ('Altar.) 

Sayings  of  Rdbi'a  al-'Adawiyya.  "The  fruit  of  Wisdom  is  to  turn 
one's  face  towards  God."  ('Atldr.) 

"  O  God  !  Give  to  Thine  enemies  whatever  Thou  hast  assigned  to 
me  of  this  world's  goods,  and  to  Thy  friends  whatever  Thou  hast 
assigned  to  me  in  the  Life  of  the  Hereafter,  for  Thou  Thyself  art 
sufficient  for  me."  (Atfdr.) 

"  I  ask  God's  forgiveness  for  my  lack  of  faithfulness  in  asking  His 
forgiveness."  (Jdmi.) 

"  O  God  !  If  I  worship  Thee  for  fear  of  Hell,  send  me  to  Hell  ; 
and  if  I  worship  Thee  in  hopes  of  Paradise,  withhold  Paradise  from 
me ;  but  if  I  worship  Thee  for  Thine  own  sake,  then  withhold  not 
from  me  the  Eternal  Beauty."  (Atldr.) 

Sayings  of  Fudayl  b.  'lydd.  "  I  worship  God  in  love,  because  I 
cannot  refrain  from  worshipping  Him."  (Jdmi.) 

"  I  would  that  I  were  ill,  so  that  I  need  not  attend  congregational 
prayers,  for  'there  is  safety  in  solitude.'"  ('Atldr.) 

"  Whoever  fears  to  be  alone  and  craves  for  men's  society  is  far 
from  salvation."  ('Attdr.) 

"  All  things  fear  him  who  fears  God,  while  he  who  fears  aught 
else  but  God  is  in  fear  of  all  things."  ('Atldr.) 

It  would  be  easy  to  multiply  these  aphorisms  of  the  early 
Sufis  a  hundredfold,  but  they  are  sufficient  to  illustrate  the 
main  characteristics  of  Muhammadan  mysticism  in  its  earliest 
stage  :  to  wit,  asceticism,  quietism,  intimate  and  personal  love 
of  God,  and  disparagement  of  mere  lip-service  or  formal 
worship.  This  ascetic  Sufiism  is  regarded  by  von  Kremer 
as  the  early  Arabian  type,  which,  if  influenced  at  all  from 
without,  was  influenced  rather  by  Christian  monasticism  than 
by  Persian,  Greek  or  Indian  ideas. 

It  is  with  Suffs  like  Abu  Yazfd  (Bayazfd)  of  Bisram,  a 
Persian,  and  the  great-grandson  of  a  Magian  (his  grandfather 


BAYAZ/D  AND  JUNAYD  427 

Adam  being  the  first  of  the  family  to  embrace  Isldm),  and 
Junayd  of  Baghdad  (also,  according  to  Jamf,  a  Persian),  called 
Sayyidttt-Taifa,  "the  Chief  of  the  Community"  that,  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  ninth  and  the  beginning  of  the  tenth 
centuries  of  our  era,  the  pantheistic  element  first  makes  its 
definite  appearance.  The  former  is  said J  to  have  declared 
that  he  was  "  an  unfathomable  ocean,  without  beginning  and 
without  end  ; "  that  he  was  the  Throne  (larsh)  of  God,  the 
"  Preserved  Tablet  "  (lawh-i-mahfiidh\  the  "  Pen  "  or  Creative 
Word  of  God,  the  prophets  Abraham,  Moses,  and  Jesus,  and 
the  Archangels  Gabriel,  Michael,  and  Israfil ;  "  for,"  added  he, 
"  whatever  attains  to  True  Being  is  absorbed  into  God  and 
becomes  God."  "  Praise  be  to  Me,"  he  is  reported  to  have  said 
on  another  occasion  ;  "  I  am  the  Truth  ;  I  am  the  True  God  ; 
I  must  be  celebrated  by  Divine  Praises."  'Attar  also  reports 
him  as  saying,  "Verily  I  am  God  :  there  is  no  God  but  me, 
therefore  worship  me  ; "  and  adds  that  "  when  his  words 
waxed  great,  so  that  the  formalists  could  not  stomach  them, 
seven  times  in  succession  they  thrust  him  forth  from  Bistam." 
Yet  he  remarked  on  one  occasion,  "Should  I  speak  of  my 
greater  experiences,  you  could  not  bear  to  hear  them  ;  there- 
fore I  tell  you  only  somewhat  of  the  lesser  ones." 

Junayd  spoke  much  in  the  same  fashion.  "  For  thirty 
years,"  said  he,  "  God  spoke  with  mankind  by  the  tongue 
of  Junayd,  though  Junayd  was  no  longer  there,  and  men  knew 
it  not."  "  The  supreme  degree  of  the  Doctrine  of  the  Divine 
Unity  is  the  denial  of  the  Divine  Unity."  In  short,  with 
these  men,  whom  the  Sufis  reckon  amongst  their  greatest 
teachers,  a  very  thorough-going  pantheism  is  sirperadded  to 
the  quietism  of  the  older  mystics.  The  transition  is  in  reality 
a  natural  one  :  from  regarding  God  as  the  only  proper  object 
of  love  and  subject  of  meditation  ;  man  as  a  mere  instrument 
under  His  controlling  Power,  "like  the  pen  in  the  hands  of 
the  scribe  ; "  and  the  Spiritual  Life  alone  as  important,  to 
1  See  the  article  Sufi  in  Hughes's  Dictionary  of  hldm. 


428  THE   Sl)Fl  MYSTICISM 

regarding  God  as  the  One  Reality  and  the  Phenomenal  World 
as  a  mere  Mirage  or  Shadow  of  Being,  is  but  a  short  step.  It 
is  noteworthy  that  both  Bayazid  and  Junayd  were  Persians, 
and  may  very  likely  have  imported  into  the  mysticism  which 
they  so  ardently  embraced  ideas  long  endemic  in  their  country, 
for  it  was  certainly  the  Persian  Suffs  who  went  to  the  greatest 
lengths  in  developing  the  Pantheistic  aspect  of  Sufiism;  yet  we 
must  bear  in  mind  that,  as  appears  from  a  study  of  other  forms 
of  Mysticism,  the  step  from  Quietism  to  Pantheism  is  neither 
long  nor  difficult. 

Here  it  behoves  us  to  say  something  of  the  celebrated 
Husayn  b.  Mansur  al-Hallaj,  who,  as  has  been  already  hinted, 
was  probably,  to  judge  by  the  oldest  and  most  credible  records, 
a  much  less  innocuous  teacher  than  even  the  more  advanced 
Sufis,  though  by  the  later  mystics,  such  as  Faridu'd-Dm  'Attar, 
Hafidh,  and  the  like,  he  is  regarded  as  a  hero,  whose  only  fault, 
if  fault  he  had,  was  "  that  he  divulged  the  secret."  Of  this 
man,  who  flourished  at  the  beginning  of  the  tenth  century, 
and  was  put  to  death  for  heterodoxy  during  the  Caliphate  of 
al-Muqtadir  in  A.D.  922,  chiefly,  as  commonly  asserted,  because 
in  one  of  his  ecstasies  he  had  cried  out,  "  I  am  the  Truth  ! " 
(/.*.,  God),  the  most  circumstantial  of  the  older  accounts  are 
given  in  the  Fihrist  (pp.  190-192),  and  in  'Arib's  Supplement 
to  Tabari's  History  (ed.  de  Goeje,  pp.  86-108),  to  which  Ibn 
Miskawayh's  narrative  is  appended  by  the  learned  editor. 
According  to  the  Fihnst  he  was  a  Persian,  but  whether  of 
NIshapur,  Merv,  Taliqan,  Ray,  or  Kiihistan  is  uncertain. 
He  is  there  described  as  "a  wily  fellow,  expert  in  conjuring, 
affecting  the  doctrines  of  the  Sufis,  adorning  his  discourse  with 
their  expressions,  and  claiming  acquaintance  with  every  science, 
though  in  fact  devoid  of  all.  He  knew  something  of  Alchemy, 
and  was  an  ignorant,  pushing,  headstrong  fellow,  over-bold 
against  authorities,  meddling  in  high  matters,  eager  to  subvert 
governments,  claiming  divinity  amongst  his  disciples,  preaching 
the  Doctrine  of  Incarnation,  pretending  to  kings  that  he  was 


HUSA  YN  IBN  MANSIJR  AL-HALlAj     429 

of  the  Shi'a,  and  to  the  common  folk  that  he  held  the  opinions 
of  the  Sufis  .  .  .  claiming  that  the  Deity  had  become  incar- 
nate in  him,  and  that  he  was  God  (Mighty  and  Holy  is  He, 
and  far  above  what  such  as  these  assert  ! )."  Being  arrested  in 
the  course  of  his  wanderings  (in  A.D.  913,  according  to  Tabari, 
iii,  p.  2289),  he  was  examined  by  Abu'l-Hasan  'AH  b.  'Isa, 
the  wazlr  of  the  Caliph  al-Muqtadir,  who  found  him  "  totally 
ignorant  of  the  Qur'an  and  its  ancillary  sciences  of  Jurispru- 
dence, Tradition,  &c.,  and  of  Poetry  and  Arabic  philology," 
and  told  him  that  "  it  would  be  better  for  him  to  study  how  to 
purify  himself  and  observe  the  obligations  of  Religion  than  to 
compose  treatises  in  which  he  knew  not  what  he  said,  uttering 
such  wild  rhapsodies  as,  '  There  descendeth  the  effulgent  Lord  of 
Light,  who  flasheth  after  His  shining,'  *  and  the  like."  After 
being  affixed  for  a  while  (apparently  with  cords,  not  nails)  to  a 
cross  or  gibbet  first  on  one  and  then  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Tigris  in  the  presence  of  the  soldiers  of  the  guard,  he  was  com- 
mitted to  prison,  where  he  strove  to  win  favour  by  conforming 
in  some  measure  to  the  Sunnite  ritual.  He  was  originally  one 
of  the  missionaries  or  propagandists  of  'All  ar-Rida,  the  Eighth 
Imdm  of  the  ShI'a  of  the  "Sect  of  the  Twelve,"  in  which 
capacity  he  was  arrested  and  punished  by  scourging  in  Kuh- 
istdn,  in  Persia.  He  attempted  to  win  over  Abu  Sahl  -Naw- 
Bakhti,  who  offered  to  believe  in  him,  together  with  many 
others,  if  he  would  produce  from  the  air  not  an  ordinary 
dirham,  but  one  inscribed  with  his  name  and  that  of  his 
father  ;  but  this  al-Hallaj  declined  to  attempt.  He  pretended 
to  perform  miracles,  such  as  stretching  forth  his  hand  into  the 
air  and  withdrawing  it  filled  with  musk  or  coins,  which  he 
scattered  amongst  the  spectators.  The  titles  of  forty-six  of  his 
books  and  treatises  are  enumerated  in  the  Fihrist  (p.  192),  and 


1  The  Arabic  MS.  Add.  9692  in  the  British  Museum  (ff.  317  to  end)  con- 
tains a  considerable  quantity  of  his  rhapsodies,  which,  so  far  as  I  have 
examined  them,  are  very  much  in  the  style  of  this  citation. 


430  THE  SIJF1  MYSTICISM 

in  one  of  them,  it  is  said,  occurred  the  words,  "/  am  He  who 
drowned  the  people  of  Noah  and  destroyed  iAd  and  Thamud."  l 

The  first  appearance  of  al-Hallaj,  according  to  the  same 
authority,  was  in  A.D.  911—2,  ten  years  before  his  cruel  execu- 
tion in  A.D.  922.  -  He  was  betrayed  at  Siis  by  a  woman  who 
had  observed  from  her  house  the  assemblies  which  frequented 
his  domicile,  and,  though  he  strove  to  deny  his  identity,  he  was 
recognised  by  one  of  his  former  disciples  by  a  certain  scar 
resulting  from  a  wound  on  his  head.  After  he  had  been 
scourged  with  a  thousand  stripes,  and  his  hands  and  feet  cut 
off,  he  was  put  to  death,  and  his  body  burnt  with  fire. 

According  to  'A rib,  al-Hallaj  pretended  to  be  all  things  to  all 
men — aSunni  to  the  Sunnfs,  a  ShW  to  the  Shi'a,  and  a  Mu'tazi- 
lite  to  the  Mu'tazilites.  Medicine,  as  well  as 
'^"af-flaiSj!1*  Alchemy  and  Conjuring,  is  numbered  amongst 
his  accomplishments.  He  claimed  to  be  an  In- 
carnation of  God,  "  and  grievous  were  his  calumnies  against 
God  and  His  apostles."  To  his  disciples  he  would  say,  to  one, 
"  Thou  art  Noah  ; "  to  another,  "  Thou  art  Moses  ; "  to 
another,  "  Thou  art  Muhammad  ;  "  adding,  "  I  have  caused 
their  spirits  to  return  to  your  bodies."  The  historian  as-Sulf, 
who  had  himself  repeatedly  met  al-Hallaj,  described  him  as 
"an  ignorant  fellow  who  pretended  to  be  clever,  an  unready 
speaker  who  would  pass  as  eloquent,  and  a  rogue  w ho  clothed 
himself  in  woollen  raiment  (suf]  and  made  a  parade  of  piety."  2 

To  what  has  been  said  about  him,  Ibn  Miskawayh  and  the 
Kitabul-*-  Uyitn  (cited  by  de  Goeje  at  the  foot  of  4Arib's 
less  detailed  notice)  add  the  following  particulars.  The  atten- 
tion of  Hamid  the  wazir  was  directed  to  al-Hallaj  by  rumours 
of  the  influence  which  he  was  obtaining  over  the  lower  grades 

1  Two  idolatrous  tribes  of  the  ancient  Arabs  to  whom  were  sent  respec- 
tively the  Prophets  Hud  and  Salih,  and  who  for  their  obstinate  unbelief 
were  destroyed,  the  one  by  a  violent  tempest,  the  other  by  a  terrible  noise 
from  heaven.    See  Qur'an,  Sura  vii. 

2  See  what  is  said  as  to  the  derivation  of  the  word  Sufi  on  p.  417 
supra. 


HUSA  YN  IBN  MAN$UR  AL-HALlAj      431 

of  officials  and  the  common  folk,  who  believed  that  he  raised 
the  dead  to  life,  compelled  the  jinn  to  serve  him  and  to  bring 
him  whatever  he  pleased,  and  performed  such 
A°Misknawayhbn  m'racles  of  the  former  prophets  as  he  pleased. 
Three  persons,  one  as-Simari,  a  scribe  and  a  Ha- 
shimite,  were  indicated  as  his  "  prophets  "  (nabt}^ 
he  himself  claiming  to  be  God  ;  and  these,  being  arrested  and 
interrogated  by  Hdmid,  admitted  that  they  were  his  mission- 
aries and  regarded  him  as  God,  able  to  raise  the  dead  to  life. 
All  this  was  strenuously  denied  by  al-Hallaj,  who  was  at  this 
time  confined  in  prison,  but  allowed  to  receive  whom  he  would, 
and  who,  besides  his  proper  name,  was  known  by  the  alias  of 
Muhammad  b.  Ahmad  al-Farisi.  A  daughter  of  his  "  prophet" 
as-Simari  gave  a  detailed  and  most  damaging  statement  of  his 
sayings  and  practices,  and  in  the  houses  of  as-Simari,  Haydara, 
and  al-Qunna'i  the  Hashimite  were  found  many  of  his  writings, 
some  inscribed  with  gold  on  Chinese  paper,1  brocade  and  silk, 
and  richly  bound  in  morocco.  Then  two  of  his  missionaries 
in  Khurasan,  named  Ibn  Bishr  and  Shakir,  were  arrested,  and 
the  instructions  which  al-Hallaj  had  issued  to  them  and  his 
other  agents  were  found,  whereby  the  case  was  made  heavier 
against  him.  Other  of  his  pretended  miracles  are  related,  as, 
for  instance,  how  he  could  expand  his  body  so  as  to  fill  the 
whole  room  where  he  was,  and  how  he  restored  a  dead  parrot 
to  life  for  the  Caliph  al-Muqtadir,  who  was  so  far  impressed  by 
his  achievements  that  he  was  very  unwilling  to  consent  to  his 
death.  Al-Hallaj  was  a  great  traveller,  and  visited  India  in 
order  to  see  the  celebrated  Rope  Trick,  in  which  a  rope  is 
thrown  up  into  the  air  and  the  performer  (in  this  Case  a 
woman)  climbs  up  it  and  disappears.  Another  of  the  heresies 
discovered  by  Hamid  in  his  books  consisted  in  elaborate  in- 
structions whereby  the  ceremony  of  the  Pilgrimage  could  be 
performed  anywhere,  in  a  room  specially  prepared  for  the 

1  Compare  what  is  said  of  the  books  of  the  Manichaeans  on  p.  165 
supra. 


432  THE   StiFI  MYSTICISM 

purpose ;  which  heresy,  along  with  others,  he  pretended  to 
have  derived  from  the  writings  of  Hasan  of  Basra.  On  this 
he  was  condemned  to  the  cruel  death  above  mentioned  ("scours:- 

V  O 

ing,  amputation,  decapitation  and  cremation),  and  the  execution 
thereof  was  entrusted  to  the  Captain  of  the  Guard  (Sahibii 
sh-Shurta]  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu's-Samad,  who  was  specially 
cautioned  not  to  give  ear  or  pay  heed  to  anything  that  he 
might  say.  After  his  head  had  been  exposed  for  a  while  on 
the  bridge  over  the  Tigris,  it  was  sent  to  Khurasan  ;  but  his 
disciples  there  maintained  (as  did  the  Gnostics,  and  after  them 
the  Muhammadans,  concerning  Christ)  r  that  not  he,  but  one 
of  his  foes  transformed  into  his  likeness,  suffered  death  and 
mutilation  ;  and  some  of  them  even  pretended  to  have  seen 
and  conversed  with  him  since  his  reported  death.  The  book- 
sellers were  made  to  take  an  oath  that  they  would  neither  buy 
nor  sell  any  of  his  writings.  The  period  of  his  captivity  from 
his  first  arrest  till  his  execution  was  eight  years  seven  months 
and  eight  days. 

The  following  further  particulars  from  al-Hamadhanl  are 
added  by  de  Goeje  at  the  foot  of  his  edition  of  'Anb  (pp.  96- 
101).  Al-Hallaj's  disciple  as-Siman,  examined  by  Hamid,  stated 
that  his  master  had  in  mid-winter,  when  travelling  with  him 
near  Istakhr  in  Fars,  produced  a  fresh  cucumber  for  him  out  of 
the  snow,  and  that  he  had  actually  eaten  it ;  whereupon  Hamid 
cursed  him  for  a  liar  and  commanded  those  who  were  present 
to  smite  him  on  the  mouth.  Another  witness  stated  that  the 
fruits  apparently  produced  from  nothing  by  al-Hallaj  turned  to 
dung  as  soon  as  men  took  them  in  their  hands.  There  was  a 
great  flood  in  the  Tigris  shortly  after  his  execution,  and  his 
followers  declared  that  this  was  because  the  ashes  of  his  burnt 
body  had  been  cast  into  the  river;  while  some  of  them  pre- 
tended to  have  seen  him  on  the  road  to  Nahruwan  riding  on  an 
ass,  and  to  have  heard  him  say  that  a  beast  transformed  into  his 
likeness  had  undergone  the  punishment  destined  for  him. 
1  See  Qur'an,  iv,  156, 


HUSA  KV  IBN  MANSUR  AL-HALlAj     433 

Amongst  the  Arabic  verses  of  al-Hallaj  cited  are  the  follow- 
ing (P-  97)  :~ 

"Ne'er  f ot  my  heart  did  I  comfort  or  pleasure  or  peace  obtain: 
Wherefore,  indeed,  should  I  seek  them,  prepared  as  I  was  for 

pain  f 

I  mounted  the  steed  of  a  perilous  quest,  and  wonder  is  mine 
At  him  who  hopeth  in  hazardous  pathivays  safely  to  gain. 

'Tis  as  though  I  were  caught  in  waves  which  toss  me  about. 
Now  up,  now  down,  now  down,  now  up  in  the  perilous  main. 
There   burns  a  fire  in   my  vitals,   there  dwells  a  grief  in  my 

heart ; 
Summon  my  eyes  to  witness,  for  my  tears  bear  witness  plain" 

Some  of  the  Siiffs,  adds  al-Hamadhdnf,  claim  that  to  al-Hallaj 
was  revealed  the  Mystery,  yea  the  Mystery  of  all  Mysteries. 
He  is  reported  to  have  said,  "  O  God,  Thou  lovest  even  such 
as  vex  Thee  :  how  then  shalt  Thou  not  love  such  as  are  afflicted 
for  Thy  sake  ?"  On  one  occasion  Ibn  Nasr  al-Qushun  was 
sick,  and  desired  to  eat  an  apple,  but  none  were  to  be  obtained, 
till  al-Hallaj  stretched  forth  his  hand  and  drew  it  back  with  an 
apple  which  he  claimed  to  have  gathered  from  the  gardens  of 
Paradise.  "  But,"  objected  a  bystander,  "  the  fruit  of  Paradise 
is  incorruptible,  and  in  this  apple  there  is  a  maggot."  "This," 
answered  al-Hallaj,  "  is  because  it  hath  come  forth  from  the 
Mansion  of  Eternity  to  the  Abode  of  Decay  :  therefore  to  its 
heart  hath  corruption  found  its  way  ! "  The  author  adds  that 
those  present  applauded  his  answer  more  than  his  achievement ; 
and,  after  reporting  a  conversation  between  him  and  ash-Shibli, 
states  that  the  name  al-tlalldj  ("  the  wool-carder  ")  was  meta- 
phorical, and  was  given  to  him  because  he  could  read  man's 
most  secret  thoughts,  and  extract  from  their  hearts  the  kernel 
of  their  imaginings  as  the  wool-carder  separates  the  cotton- 
grains  from  the  cotton.  Others,  however,  say  that  the  name 
was  given  to  him  by  a  wool-carder  at  Wasifc  whom  he  had 
miraculously  assisted  in  his  work.  The  Stiffs  differ  as  to 
whether  he  was  of  them  or  not.  During  his  execution  a 

29 


434  THE  StfFf  MYSTICISM 

woman  named  Fatima  of  Nishapur  was  sent  to  him  by  ash- 
Shibll  (a  recognised  saint  of  the  Sufis)  to  ask  him,  amongst 
other  things,  what  Sufiism  was  ;  to  which  he  replied  :  "  That 
which  is  mine,  for  by  God  I  never  distinguished  for  a  moment 
between  pleasure  and  pain  !  " 

The  following  additional  particulars  from  Ibnu'l-Jawzi  are 
also  given  by  de  Goeje  at  the  foot  of  'Arlb's  text  (pp.  101-8). 
On  Wednesday  and  Thursday,  December  1-2,  A.D.  912, 
al-Hallaj  was  crucified  alive  on  the  east  shore  of  the  Tigris, 
and  on  the  two  following  days  on  the  west  side.1  In  the 
following  year  (having,  it  would  appear,  been  released  after  this 
first  severe  punishment)  he  was  arrested  again  at  Siis  with  one  or 
his  followers,  and  brought  into  Baghdad  on  a  camel  as  a  public 
spectacle,  while  a  herald  proclaimed  before  him,  "  This  is  one 
of  the  dfrh  of  the  Carmathians  :  take  note  of  him  ! "  His 
subsequent  examination  before  the  wazir  'AH  b.  clsd  is 
described  as  on  p.  429  supra,  and  his  second  crucifixion  and 
imprisonment.  Again,  under  the  year  A.H.  309  (A.D.  921-2), 
in  recording  his  death,  the  same  author  adds  some  further 
details.  Al-Hallaj,  whose  grandfather  is  said  to  have  been  a 
Magian  of  Bayda  ("the  White  Castle,"  Dizh-i-Sapla]  in 
Fars,  was  brought  up  in  Wasit  or  Shushtar.  Later  he  came 
to  Baghdad,  and  associated  with  the  Sufis,  including  their 
great  Shaykhs  al-Junayd  and  Sufyan  ath-Thawri.  Then  he 
travelled  widely  in  India,  Khurasan,  Transoxiana,  and 
Turkistdn.  Men  differ  concerning  him,  some  regarding  him 

1  The  later  Sufis  generally  imply  that  he  was  put  to  death  by  crucifixion, 
being  possibly  influenced  by  a  desire  of  establishing  a  resemblance 
between  him  and  Christ.  In  A.H.  1305  (A.D.  1887-8)  there  was  actually 
published  at  Bombay  a  collection  of  Persian  poems  purporting  to  be  by 
Husayn  b.  Mansur  al-Hallaj,  and  to  this  impudent  forgery  is  prefixed  a 
rude  woodcut  of  Christ  on  the  Cross  (evidently  taken  from  some  Christian 
book),  surmounted  by  a  well-known  verse  from  the  Mathnawi  of  Jalalu'd- 
Din  Rumi  to  this  effect  : — 

"  Whene'er  the  unjust  judge  controls  the  pen, 
Some  Mansur  dies  upon  the  gibbet  then." 


HUSA  YN  IBN  MANSER  AL-HALlAj     435 

as  a  magician,  others  as  a  saint  able  to  work  wonders,  and 
others  as  an  impostor.  The  opinion  of  Abu  Bakr  as-Suli 
concerning  him,  recorded  on  p.  430  supray  is  cited  again  in  nearly 
the  same  words.  "  His  professed  object  in  visiting  India  was, 
according  to  a  contemporary  traveller  who  sailed  in  the  same 
ship  with  him,  to  study  magic  ;  and  he  declared  himself  able 
to  compose  verses  equal  to  those  of  the  Qur'dn — rank  blas- 
phemy worthy  of  death  in  the  eyes  of  all  good  Muslims  ! 
Ibnu'l-Jawzi  then  mentions  that  he  had  composed  a  mono- 
graph on  the  sayings  and  doings  of  al-Hallaj,  to  which  he 
refers  the  reader  for  further  information.  The  same  heresies 
(Incarnation,  "  Return "  or  Re-incarnation,  and  Anthropo- 
morphism) are  charged  against  al-Hallaj  as  by  the  authors 
already  cited.  His  execution  is  stated  to  have  taken  place 
on  Tuesday,  March  26,  A.D.  922.  He  walked  fearlessly  and 
even  exultingly  to  the  place  of  execution,  reciting  the  following 
verses  (see  p.  363  supra]  : — 

"My  Friend  doth  unrelated  stand  to  aught  of  ruth  or  clemency: 
From  His  own  cup  He  bade  me  sup,  for  such  is  hospitality  ! 
But  when   the   Wine  had  circled  round,  for  sword  and  carpet * 

called  He. 
Who  with  the  Dragon  drinketh  Wine  in  Summer,  such  his  fate 

shall  be/" 

Just  before  his  head  was  struck  off,  he  bade  his  disciples  be  of 
good  cheer,  for  he  would  return  to  earth  again  in  thirty  days. 
Three  years  later  three  of  his  disciples,  Haydara,  ash-Shalranf, 
and  Ibn  Mansiir,  who  refused  to  renounce  their  belief  in  him, 
were  decapitated  and  crucified  by  Ndziik,  the  Captain  of  the 
Guard. 

1  The  nat',  or  executioner's  carpet,  is  a  large  circular  piece  of  skin  or 
leather,  round  the  margin  of  which  are  holes  or  eyes  through  which  a 
cord  is  run.  By  tightening  this  cord  the  carpet  is  made  concave,  so  as  to 
catch  the  blood  ;  and  when  the  victim's  head  has  been  struck  off  the  cord 
is  drawn  quite  tight,  so  that  a  bag  is  formed  in  which  the  remains  are 
removed. 


436  THE  StfFl  MYSTICISM 

Adh-Dhahabi  also  wrote  a  monograph  (probably  no  longer 
extant)  on  al-Hallaj,  and  in  his  Annah  he  speaks  briefly  of 
him  as  consorting  with  al-Junayd,  'Amr  b.  'Uthman  al-Maklci 
and  other  Sufi  Shaykhs,  and  feigning  an  ascetic  life,  but  being 
led  astray  by  his  megalomania  and  love  of  power  until  he 
"quitted  the  circle  of  the  Faith."  Nevertheless,  says  this 
author,  many  of  the  later  Sufis  almost  deify  him,  and  even  the 
great  "  Proof  of  Isldm  "  al-Ghazzalf  in  his  Mhhkatttl-Anwar 
makes  excuses  for  him,  "  explaining  away  his  sayings  in  a 
sense  admirable  enough,  but  far  removed  from  the  obvious 
meaning  of  the  Arabic  language.  He  is  also  mentioned  by 
Abu  Sacid  an-Naqqash  in  his  History  of  the  Shfis  as  accused  by 
some  of  magical  practices  and  by  others  of  heresy  (zindiqa]y 
and  indeed  the  general  view  of  some  half-dozen  other  writers 
of  authority  cited  by  adh-Dhahabi  is  to  the  effect  that  al-Hallaj 
was  "  a  detestable  infidel "  (Kafir  khablth}. 

I  have  dwelt  thus  fully  on  the  oldest  and  most  authentic 
accounts  of  this  remarkable  man  because  he  became  one  of  the 
favourite  heroes  and  saints  of  most  of  the  later  Sufis,  the 
Persian  mystical  poets  in  particular  constantly  referring  to  him 
with  approval  and  even  enthusiasm.  Moreover,  he  may 
probably  be  credited  with  introducing  to  a  large  extent  the 
more  avowedly  pantheistic  and  thaumaturgic  forms  of  Sufiism 
with  which  henceforth  we  constantly  meet.  Faridu'd-Din 
'Attar  speaks  of  him  in  his  Memoirs  of  the  Saints  as  "  that 
Martyr  of  God  in  the  Way  of  God,  that  Lion  of  the  Thicket 
of  the  Search  after  Truth  .  .  .  that  Diver  in  the  Tempestuous 
Sea,"  &c.,  praises  his  character  and  attainments,  celebrates  his 
miracles,  and  adds  that  "  some  charge  him  with  practising 
magic,  while  some  externalists  denounce  him  as  an  infidel." 
"I  am  astonished,"  he  remarks  a  little  lower,  alluding  to 
Moses  and  the  Burning  Bush,  "at  those  who  consider  it 
proper  that  the  words,  *  Verily  I  am  God,'  should  come  from  a 
Tree  which  was  as  though  non-existent,  and  who  yet  regard  it 
as  improper  that  the  words,  4 1  am  the  Truth,'  should  come 


PERSIAN  StfFJ  POETS  437 

from  the  Tree  of  Husayn  b.  Mansur's  being  when  Husayn 
was  no  longer  there."  *  Abu  Sa'id  b.  Abi'l-Khayr,  the  earliest 
Persian  mystical  poet,  declared  that  al-Hallaj  was  unequalled  in 
his  time,  either  in  the  East  or  the  West,  in  the  exaltation  of 
his  ecstasies  ;  2  and  Jamf,  who  cites  this  opinion,  as  well  as 
Hafidh  and  most  of  the  later  mystics,  speak  in  similar  terms  of 
admiration. 

It  was  at  a  later  period,  probably  during  the  latter  part  of 
the  eleventh  century,  that  Sufiism  was  gradually  moulded  by 
al-GhazzaU  and  others  into  a  more  or  less  philosophical  system, 
and  was  also,  to  a  considerable  extent,  brought  into  alliance 
with  orthodoxy.  In  this  connection  it  is  a  notable  fact  that 
Sana'i,  'Attar,  and  Jalalu'd-Din  Rumi,  the  three  greatest  of  the 
older  Persian  mystical  poets,  were  all  Sunnis  ;  their  poems 
abound  with  laudatory  mentions  of  Abu  Baler  and  'Umar,  and 
they  are  the  declared  foes  of  the  Mu'tazilites  and  Philosophers  ; 
while  the  greatest  Shi'ite  poets  of  Persia  in  early  times, 
Firdawsi  and  Nasir-i-Khusraw  the  Isma'ili,  had  little  of  the 
§ufi  about  them.  Besides  Firdawsf  we  find  mentioned  in  that 
section  of  the  Majalisul-Muminin^  or  "  Assemblies  of  [ShHte] 
Believers,"  which  deals  with  Persian  poets  claimed  as  their  own 
by  the  ShI'a,  the  following  names  :  Asadf,  Ghada'iH  of  Ray, 
Pindar  (or  Bundar)  of  Ray,  Abu'l-Mafakhir  of  Ray,  Qiwdmf 
of  Ray,  Khaqanf  of  Shfrwan,  Anwar{,  Salman  of  Sawa, 
Yamfnu'd-Din  of  Faryiimad,  and  practically  no  other  early 
poets  of  any  eminence.  Even  the  great  SaMi's  grave  at  SMraz 
is  neglected,  and  has  been  insulted,  by  his  later  compatriots 
because  he  is  known  to  have  been  a  Sunnf.3  The  immense 
popularity  enjoyed  by  Jalalu'd-Dfn  Rumf  in  Turkey,  where 
his  Mathnawi  is  the  object  of  the  most  affectionate  and  careful 

1  He  means  that  the  Being  of  both  these  veils  of  Theophany  was  over- 
shadowed and  absorbed,  as  it  were,  by  the  Divine  Effulgence  which  was 
manifested  in  them.  •  Jami's  Nafahdt,  p.  169. 

s  See  my  Year  amongst  the  Persians,  pp.  281-2. 


438  THE  StfFf  MYSTICISM 

study,  especially  amongst  the  Mevlevi  (or  so-called  "  Dancing  ") 
Dervishes,  who  take  their  name  from  him,  their  great 
"Master"'  (Mevla,  the  Turkish  pronunciation  of  Mawld\  is 
no  doubt  due  in  great  measure  to  the  fact  that,  apart  from 
his  transcendental  rhapsodies,  he  is  "orthodox."  And  here  it 
may  be  added  that  all  dervishes  or  faqirs  (both  words  meaning 
"  poor,"  i,e.y  religious  mendicants  who  have  embraced  a  life  of 
voluntary  poverty  for  God's  sake)  are  professedly  more  or  less 
Sufis,  though  many  of  them  are,  of  course,  ignorant  fellows, 
who,  notwithstanding  their  glib  talk  of  "ecstasies,"  "stations," 
and  "  Annihilation  in  God,"  have  very  little  comprehension  of 
the  real  scope  and  purport  of  the  Suff  doctrine. 

Of  this  doctrine  it  is  necessary  in  conclusion  to  give  a  brief 
sketch,  premising  that  in  the  form  in  which  it  is  here  presented 
it  is  to  some  extent  the  product  of  a  later  age,  and  is  to  be 
found  most  fully  elaborated  in  the  works  of  poets  like  'Iraqi' 
and  Jamf.  in  Arabic  the  poems  of  'Umar  ibnu'l-Farid  and 
the  voluminous  writings  of  the  great  mystic  of  the  West 
Shaykh  Muhyiyyu'd-Dfn  ibnu'l-'Arabi  have  not  yet  received 
the  attention  they  merit  from  students  of  Sufiism  who  choose 
to  regard  it  as  essentially  and  exclusively  Persian  in  its  origin, 
and  who  consequently  confine  their  attention  to  its  Persian 
manifestations. 

The  Sufi  system  starts  from  the  conception  that  not  only 

True  Being,  but  Beauty  and  Goodness,  belong  exclusively  to 

God,  though  they  are  manifested  in  a  thousand 

The  Sufi  system.         .  _.  ,    TTr      .  . 

God  aione       mirrors  in  the  Phenomenal  World.     "  God  was, 

really  exists.  r  .  . 

says  one  or  their  favourite  aphorisms,  "  and  there 
was  naught  beside  Him  ;  "  to  which  are  sometimes  added  the 
words,  "  and  it  is  now  even  as  it  was  then"  God,  in  short,  is 
Pure  Being,  and  what  is  "other  than  God"  (ma  siwtfu'llah} 
only  exists  in  so  far  as  His  Being  is  infused  into  it,  or  mirrored 
in  it.  He  is  also  Pure  Good  (Khayr-i-mahd)  and  Absolute 
Beauty  :  whence  He  is  often  called  by  the  mystics  in  their 
pseudo-erotic  poems,  "the  Real  Beloved,"  "the  Eternal 


439 

Darling,"   and  the  like.     Thus  Jamf   says,  in    a   passage   of 
which  I  have  published  a  full  translation  in  another  place  I: — 

"  Whatever  heart 

Doth  yield  to  Love,  He  charms  it.    In  His  love 
The  heart  hath  life.     Longing  for  Him,  the  soul 
Hath  victory.     That  heart  which  seems  to  love 
The  fair  ones  of  this  world  loves  Him  alone. 
Beware  !    Say  not,  '  He  is  All-Beautiful, 
And  we  His  lovers  !'     Thou  art  but  the  glass, 
And  He  the  Face  confronting  it  which  casts 
Its  image  in  the  mirror.     He  alone 
Is  manifest,  and  thou  in  truth  art  hid. 
Pure  Love,  like  Beauty,  coming  but  from  Him, 
Reveals  itself  in  thee.     If  steadfastly 
Thou  canst  regard,  thou  wilt  at  length  perceive 
He  is  the  Mirror  also  ;  He  alike 
The  Treasure  and  the  Casket.     ' I' and  'Thou' 
Have  here  no  place,  and  are  but  phantasies 
Vain  and  unreal." 

This,  then,  is  how  the  Sufis  understand  the  Doctrine  of  the 

Divine  Unity   (Tawhld]  :   not  merely  is  there  "  no  god  but 

God,"  as  the  Muhammadan  profession   of  Faith 

Bcingnand°phe-  declares,   but    there    is  nothing    but    God.     The 

contingent  World  of  Phenomena  and  of  the  Senses  is  a 
mere  Mirage — a  reflection  of  Being  on  Not- 
Being,  manifesting  the  Attributes  of  Being  as  the  reflection 
manifests  its  original,  but  not  really  participating  in  its  nature. 
An  illustration  commonly  employed  by  the  Sufis  is  that  of  the 
Sun  (which  typifies  Being)  reflected  in  a  pool  of  water  (Not- 
Being).  The  reflection  of  the  Sun  (the  Phenomenal  World) 
is  entirely  "  contingent "  :  it  may  be  blotted  out  instantly  by 
a  passing  cloud,  or  marred  by  a  sudden  gust  of  wind  ;  it  is 
entirely  dependent  on  the  Sun,  while  the  Sun  is  absolutely 
independent  of  it ;  yet,  while  it  lasts,  it  more  or  less  faithfully 

1  Religious  Sy terns  of  the  World  (Swan  Sonnenschein,  1892),  pp.  314- 
332  :  an  article  on  $ufiistn  originally  delivered  as  a  lecture  at  the  South 
Place  Ethical  Institute. 


440  THE   SUFI  MYSTICISM 

reveals  the  Nature  and  Attributes  of  its  Unchanging  Prototype. 
This  idea  is  finely  expressed  in  one  of  the  odes  of  Shams-i- 
Tabrfz,  rendered  into  English  verse  by  my  friend  Mr.  R.  A. 
Nicholson  (pp.  cit.,  p.  343)  : — 


"  Poor  copies  out  of  heaven's  original, 
Pale  earthly  pictures  mouldering  to  decay, 
What  care  although  your  beauties  break  and  fall, 
When  that  which  gave  them  life  endures  for  aye  ?" 

It  is  the  essential  nature  of  Beauty  to  desire  to  reveal  and 
manifest   itself,   which    quality   it    derives    from    the    Eternal 
Beauty.     "/  was  a  Hidden    Treasure"    God    is 
Causetion.Crea"    described  by  the  Sufis  as  saying  to  David,  "ana  I 
wished  to  be  known,  so  I  created  creation  that  I  might 
be  known."     Now  a  thing  can  only  be  known   through    its 
opposite — Light  by  Darkness,  Good  by  Evil,  Health  by  Sick- 
ness, and  so  on  ;  hence  Being  could  only  reveal  itself 
The  Nature  of    through  Not  Being,  and  through  the  product  of 
this  admixture  (to  use  a  not  very  accurate  expres- 
sion), namely,  the  Phenomenal  World.     Thus  Eternal  Beauty 
manifests  itself,  as  it  were,  by  a  sort  of  self-negation  ;   and 
what    we    call    "Evil"    is   a    necessary    consequence   of  this 
manifestation,  so  that  the  Mystery  of  Evil  is  really  identical 
with    the    Mystery   of  Creation,  and    inseparable    therefrom. 
But  Evil  must  not  be  regarded  as  a  separate  and  independent 
entity  :   just  as  Darkness  is  the  mere  negation  of  Light,  so 
Evil  is  merely  the   Not-Good,  or,  in  other  words,  the  Non- 
Existent.     All  Phenomenal  Being,  on  the  other  hand,  neces- 
sarily contains  some  elements  of  Good,  just  as  the  scattered 
rays  of  the  pure,  dazzling  white  light  which  has  passed  through 
the  prism  are  still  light,  their  light  more  or  less  "coloured" 
and    weakened.     It    is  from    this   fall   from    the    "World  of 
Colourlessness"  (fdlam-i-bl-rangi)  that  all  the  strife  and  conflict 
apparent  in  this  world  result,  as  it  is  said  in  the  Mathnawl : — 


441 

"  When  Colourlessness  became  the  captive  of  Colour, 
A  Moses  was  at  war  with  a  Moses."  * 

And  so  speaks  Jami : — 

"  Thou  art  Absolute  Being;  all  else  is  naught  but  a  Phantasm, 
For  in  Thy  universe  all  things  are  one. 
Thy  world-captivating  Beauty,  to  display  its  perfections, 
Appears  in  thousands  of  mirrors,  but  it  is  one. 
Although  Thy  Beauty  accompanies  all  the  beautiful, 
In  truth  the  Unique  and  Incomparable  Heart-enslaver  is  one. 
All  this  turmoil  and  strife  in  the  world  is  from  love  of  Him  : 
It  hath  now  become  known  that  the  Ultimate  Source  of  the  Mischief 
is  one." 

From  another  aspect,  which  harmonises  better  with  the 
Neo-Platonist  doctrine  (to  which,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
Sufiism  was  apparently  so  much  indebted  for  its  later  more 
philosophical  form),  the  Grades  of  Being  may  be  conceived  of 
as  a  series  of  Emanations,  which  become  weaker,  more  unreal, 
more  material  and  less  luminous  as  they  recede  further  from  the 
Pure  Light  of  Absolute  Being. 

So  far  we  have  spoken  chiefly  of  the  "  Arc  of  Descent,"  but 
there  is  also  the  "  Arc  of  Ascent,"  whereby  Man,  the  final 
product  of  this  evolutionary  chain,  returns  to  his  original  home, 
and,  by  "  Annihilation  in  God  "  (Fa na  f?llah\  is  once  more 
merged  in  the  Divine  Essence  which  is  the  only  True  Being  : 
as  it  is  said,  "  Everything  returns  to  its  Source"  Here  it  is  that 
the  Ethics,  as  opposed  to  the  Metaphysics,  of  Sufn'sm  begin. 
Evil  is,  as  we  have  seen,  illusion  ;  its  cure  is  to  get  rid  of  the 
ignorance  which  causes  us  to  take  the  Phantasms  of  the  World 
of  Sense  for  Realities.  All  sinful  desire,  all  sorrow  and  pain, 
have  their  root  in  the  idea  of  Self,  and  Self  is  an  illusion.  The 
first  and  greatest  step  in  the  Sufi  "Path  "  (Tarlqat)  is,  then,  to 

1  I.e.,  with  Pharaoh,  who  is  conceived  of  by  Jalalu'd-DIn  as  "  walking 
in  the  right  way"  with  Moses,  though  seemingly  opposed  to  him,  and  yet 
bitterly  lamenting  this  apparent  antagonism.  See  Whinfield's  Masnavi 
(abridged  translation,  Triibner,  1898,  second  ed.),  pp.  37-38. 


442  THE   StfFf  MYSTICISM 

escape  from  self,  and  even  an  earthly  love  may,  to  some  extent, 
effect  this  deliverance.  It  is  here  especially  that  the  emotional 
character  of  Sufiism,  so  different  from  the  cold  and  bloodless 
theories  of  the  Indian  philosophies,  is  apparent.  Love  here,  as 
with  so  many  of  the  Mystics  in  all  ages  and  all  countries,  is 
the  Sovereign  Alchemy,  transmuting  the  base  metal  of 
humanity  into  the  Divine  Gold.  Once  more  let  Jdmi 
speak  : — * 


"Though  in  this  world  a  hundred  tasks  thou  tryest, 
'Tis  Love  alone  which  from  thyself  will  save  thee. 
Even  from  earthly  love  thy  face  avert  not, 
Since  to  the  Real  it  may  serve  to  raise  thee. 
Ere  A,  B,  C,  are  rightly  apprehended, 
How  canst  thou  con  the  pages  of  the  Qur'an  ? 
A  sage  (so  heard  I)  unto  whom  a  scholar 
Came  craving  counsel  on  the  course  before  him, 
Said,  '  If  thy  steps   be  strangers  to  Love's  pathways, 
Depart,  learn  love,  and  then  return  before  me  ! 
For,  should'st  thou  fear  to  drink  wine  from  Form's  flagon, 
Thou  canst  not  drain  the  draughts  of  the  Ideal. 
But  yet  beware  !     Be  not  by  Form  belated ; 
Strive  rather  with  all  speed  the  bridge  to  traverse. 
If  to  the  bourn  thou  fain  would'st  bear  thy  baggage 
Upon  the  bridge  let  not  thy  footsteps  linger.'" 

Hence  the  Sufis  say  :  "  Al-majazu  qantaratul-Haqiqat " 
("  The  Phantasmal  is  the  Bridge  to  the  Real  ")  :  by  the  typal 
love  the  Pilgrim  (salik)  learns  to  forget  self  and  to  see  only  the 
beloved,  until  he  at  length  realises  that  what  he  loves  in  his 
beloved  is  a  mere  dim  reflection  of  the  Eternal  Beauty,  which 
"appears  in  thousands  of  mirrors,  yet  is  but  One."  Of  this 
rather  than  of  the  cold  metaphysics  of  Buddhism  might  Sir 
Edwin  Arnold  have  been  writing  where  he  says2: — 

1  The  passage  is  more  fully  given  on  p.  326  of  Religions  Systems  of  the 
World  (Swan  Sonnenschein,  1892). 
3  Light  of  Asia  (ed.  1882,  Triibner),  pp.  226, 


"ANNIHILATION  IN  GOD"  443 

"For  love  to  clasp  Eternal  Beauty  close, 

For  glory  to  be  Lord  of  self,  for  pleasure 
To  live  beyond  the  gods ;  for  countless  wealth 
To  lay  up  lasting  treasure 

Of  perfect  service  rendered,  duties  done 
In  charity,  soft  speech,  and  stainless  days : 

These  riches  shall  not  fade  away  in  life, 
Nor  any  death  dispraise. 

While  his  equally  beautiful  definition  of  Nirvana I  admirably 
describes  the  Sufi  idea  of  "  Annihilation  in  God  "  : — 

"Seeking  nothing,  he  gains  all; 
Foregoing  self,  the  Universe  grows  '  I ' : 

If  any  teach  Nirvana  is  to  cease, 
Say  unto  such  they  lie. 

If  any  teach  Nirvana  is  to  live, 
Say  unto  such  they  err,  not  knowing  this, 

Nor  what  light  shines  beyond  their  broken  lamps, 
Nor  lifeless,  timeless  bliss." 

Sufiism  has  been  discussed  by  other  writers  so  much  more 
fully  than  most  of  the  topics  mentioned  in  these  pages  that  I 
do  not  propose  to  devote  more  space  to  it  in  this  volume.  As 
already  remarked,  it  essentially  differs  from  most  of  the  creeds 
hitherto  described  in  its  latitudinarian  and  non-proselytising 
character.  It  seeks  not  so  much  to  convert  those  of  other 
faiths  as  to  understand  what  particular  aspect  of  Truth  each  of 
these  creeds  represents.  How  it  understands  the  Muhammadan 
doctrine  of  the  Divine  Unity  we  have  already  seen.  In  the 
Dualism  of  the  Magians  and  the  Manichaeans  it  sees  typified 
the  interaction  of  Being  and  Not  Being  wherefrom  the 
Phenomenal  World  results.  The  Christian  Trinity  typifies 
the  Light  of  Being,  the  Mirror  of  the  purified  human  soul,  and 
the  Rays  of  the  Divine  Outpouring.  Even  from  Idolatry 

1  Light  of  Asia,  p.  231. 


444  THE   SI) Ft  MYSTICISM 

there  are  lessons  to  be  learned.1  How  far  removed  is  this 
attitude  of  mind  from  that  of  the  dogmatic  and  exclusive  creeds 
which  have  hitherto  occupied  our  attention  !  a 

*  See  Religions  Systems  of  the  World,  p.  325. 

a  As  this  subject  is  of  great  importance  for  the  understanding  of  much 
that  is  best  in  Persian  literature,  I  here  enumerate  some  of  the  best  books 
and  treatises  on  it  to  which  the  European  reader  can  refer.  I.  Trans- 
lations.— 'Atiar'sMantiqu't-Tayr  ("  Language  of  Birds"),  French  translation 
by  Garcin  de  Tassy,  Paris,  1864 ;  Jalalu'd-Din  Riimi's  Mathnawf,  abridged 
translation  by  E.  Whinfield  (2nd  ed.,  London,  Triibner,  1898)  ;  Shabistari's 
Giilshan-i-Rdz  ("  Rose-garden  of  Mystery"),  ed.  and  transl.  by  Whinfield, 
Triibner,  1880,  one  of  the  best  Oriental  manuals,  with  excellent  Introduction 
and  illuminating  comments  ;  Jami's  Yusuf-u-Zulaykhd,  ed.  and  German 
transl.  by  V.  von  Rosenzweig  (Vienna,  1824)  ;  Hafidh,  Diwdn,  ed.  and 
German  translation  by  Rosenzweig-Schwannau  (Vienna,  1858-1864),  and 
John  Payne's  English  verse  transl.  published  for  the  Villon  Society.  II. 
Original  Works. — Tholuck's  Ssttfismus,  sive  Theosophia  Persarum  Panthe- 
isiica  (Berlin,  1821)  ;  Ibid.,  Bluthensammliing  aus  dcr  Morgenlandischcn 
Mysiik  (Berlin,  1825}  ;  Vaughan's  Hours  with  the  Mystics,  Book  vii ;  Hughes' 
Dictionary  of  Islam,  sub  voc. ;  my  own  article  in  Religious  Systems  of  the 
World,  pp.  314-332  ;  Gibb's  History  of  Ottoman  Poetry,  vol.  i  (London, 
Luzac  ;  1900),  pp.  53-67.  Tljese.  bjooks  will  suffice^  to  ^giye  the  general 
reader  an  adequate  and  correct  notion  of  the  Sufi  system. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

THE    LITERATURE    OF    PERSIA    DURING    THIS    PERIOD 

As  has  been  already  observed,  Arabic  continued  during  the 
whole  of  the  period  which  we  are  now  discussing  to  be  the 
chief  literary  medium  in  Persia,  not  only  for  prose  but  for 
verse.  Nevertheless  Persian  again  begins,  under  those  semi- 
independent  dynasties,  the  Saffarids  and  Sdmanids,  and  even 
under  the  earlier  Tahirids,  to  be  employed  as  a  literary 
language  :  more,  indeed,  for  verse  than  prose,  but  to  some 
extent  for  both.  In  this  chapter  we  shall  have  to  consider 
chiefly  the  poets  of  Persian  nationality,  first  those  who  used 
their  mother-tongue,  and  secondly  those  who  employed  the 
Arabic  language. 

Our  authorities  ror  the  latter  are  fuller,  though,  with  one 

exception,  not  much  more  accessible,  than  for  the  former  ;  and 

the  chief  one  is  the  Yatlmatud-Dahr  (or  "  Unique 

*fflSS£*    Pearl  of  the  Age  ")  of  Abu  Mansur  'Abdu'l-Malik 

(Trrhe  Yattma   b.  Muhammad  b.  Ismail  ath-Tha'alibf I  of  Nfsha- 

of ath-Tha'aiibi.        „     .      ',,.        .    .  ..  T1       _...     ....   , 

pur  in  Khurasan,  who,  according  tolbn  Khalhkan, 
was  born  in  A.D.  961  and  died  in  A.D.  1038.  This  valuable 
anthology  of  Arabic  verse  was  published  at  Damascus  in 
A.D.  1885  and  following  years  in  four  volumes;  of  which  the 
fint  deals  in  ten  chapters  (pp.  536)  with  the  poets  of  Syria 

1  He  was  called  Tha'dlibi  (from  tha'lab,  a  fox,  pi.  iha'dlib)  because  he 
was  by  trade  a  furrier  and  dealt  in  the  skins  of  that  animal. 

445 


446         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

(including  the  "  Circle  of  Sayfu'd-Dawla,"  Abu  Firas,  the  House 
of  Hamddn  and  al-Mutanabbi),  Egypt,  the  Maghrib  and 
Mosul  ;  the  second,  in  ten  chapters  (pp.  316),  with  the  poets  of 
Baghdad  and  Arabian  'Iraq  who  flourished  under  the  patronage 
of  the  noble  House  of  Buwayh  ;  the  third,  in  ten  chapters 
(pp.  290),  with  the  poets  of  Persia  (except  Khurasan),  who 
were  patronised  by  the  Buwayhids  of  Persia  and  their  ministers 
(notably  the  Sahib  Isma'il  b.  'Abbad),  and  the  rulers  of  Tabar- 
istdn,  especially  the  Ziydrid  Qabus  b.  Washmgfr,  a  glowing 
encomium  of  whose  virtues  and  talents  concludes  the  volume  ; 
and  the  fourth  and  last,  also  in  ten  chapters  (pp.  332),  with 
the  poets  of  Khurasan  and  Khwdrazm,  who  flourished  .under 
the  protection  of  the  House  of  Samdn.  This  work  is  a  perfect 
treasury  of  information  as  to  the  literary  condition  of  Persia  in 
this  period  (circ.  A.H.  350-403  =  A.D.  961-1012),  and  gives  us 
an  extraordinary  idea  of  the  extent  to  which  the  Arabic 
language  was  cultivated  throughout  Persia,  even  as  far  as 
Khwdrazm,  at  this  time ;  for  here  we  find  Persian  poets 
addressing  their  Persian  patrons  in  excellent  Arabic  verse, 
occasionally  extemporised  on  the  spur  of  the  moment  ;  so  that 
it  would  seem  that  at  this  epoch  Arabic  must  have  been  as  well 
understood  in  Persia  by  persons  of  education  as  English  is  in 
Wales  at  the  present  time  ;  and  that  there  were  eloquent 
Persians  then  who  could  wield  the  Arabic  language  as  skilfully 
and  successfully  as  several  Welsh  orators  can  the  English 
language  in  this  our  day.  This  is  certainly  a  far  closer  analogy 
than  that  afforded  by  the  Greek  and  Latin  verses  now  produced 
in  England  by  classical  scholars,  which,  however  good  they  may 
be,  are  the  outcome  of  much  thought  and  labour,  and  lack,  I 
imagine,  the  quality  of  spontaneity.  In  order  to  ascertain  the 
effect  produced  by  these  Arabic  verses  composed  by  Persian 
poets  on  one  whose  native  language  was  Arabic,  and  who  knew 
no  Persian,  though  deeply  learned  in  his  own  tongue  and  its 
literature,  I  seized  the  occasion  of  a  visit  paid  to  me  at 
Cambridge  two  or  three  summers  ago  by  Shaykh  Abu'n-Nasr, 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  447 

formerly  repetiteur  of  Arabic  at  the  admirably  organised  Ecole 
des  Langues  Orientates  Vivantes  of  Paris,  to  read  with  him  some 
thirty  pages  of  the  last  volume  of  the  Tatima,  dealing  with  the 
poets  of  Khurasan  ;  and  he  assured  me  that  the  verses  were 
excellent  Arabic,  and,  as  a  rule,  so  far  as  the  language  went, 
showed  no  trace  of  foreign  origin.  The  lack  of  Persian  verse 
produced  at  this  epoch  does  not,  then,  arise  from  any  lack  either 
of  talent  or  of  literary  ability,  but  simply  from  the  fact  that  it 
was  still  the  fashion  to  use  Arabic  instead  of  the  native  speech 
for  literary  purposes  ;  and  I  cannot  help  feeling  astonished  that 
those  who  concern  themselves  with  Persian  literature  (unless 
they  regard  literature  as  merely  expressing  the  speech  and  not 
at  all  the  genius  of  a  people)  should  have  hitherto  ignored 
almost  entirely  this  rich  field  of  study,  with  which  those 
scholars  whose  interest  lies  primarily  with  the  Arabs  and  other 
Semitic  peoples  are  more  naturally  disinclined  to  trouble  them- 
selves. Indeed  the  only  considerable  study  of  the  Tatlma  (in  so 
far  as  it  concerns  Persia)  with  which  I  am  acquainted  is  M. 
Barbier  de  Meynard's  interesting  series  of  articles  in  the  Journal 
Aiiatique  for  1853  (pp.  169-239),  and  1854  (pp.  291-361), 
entitled  Tableau  Litteraire  du  Khorassan  et  de  la  Tramoxiane  au 
IVe  siec/e  de  /' '  Hegire,  which  contains  a  translation  of  pp.  2-1 14 
or  the  fourth  volume  of  the  Tatlma.  If  we  are  entitled  to  look 
for  the  Celtic  genius  in  the  poems  of  Moore,  Yeats,  or  Lewis 
Morris,  surely  we  may  expect  to  discover  some  characteristics 
of  the  Persian  mind  in  these  poets,  who,  though  Arabic  in 
speech  (at  least  for  literary  purposes),  were  Iranian  by  race. 
With  the  precursors  of  the  Tatlma  (such  as  the  Hamdsas  ;  the 
"Classes,"  or  Tabaqat,  of  Ibn  Qutayba  and  Abu  'Abdi'llah 

Muhammad  b.  Sallam  al-Jumahf  ;   the    Kitdbul- 
SihPePK™ma!°    AgMni^  &c.),x  we  need  not  here  further  concern 

ourselves,  but  a  few  words  must  be  said  concerning 
its  supplements,  which,  unfortunately,  since  they  exist  only  in 

1  See  the  separate  reprint  of  my  article  on  The  Sources  of  Dawlatsfuth 
in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1899,  pp.  47-48. 


448         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

rare  manuscripts,  I  have  not  been  able  at  present  to  read  or 
examine  at  leisure.  Two  only  need  be  mentioned,  of  which 
the  first  and  most  important  is  the  Dumyatu 
Th-^T/M  '*-$«?r  of  al-Husayn  b.  'AH  al-Balcharzf  (t  A.D. 
1074-5).  Of  this  work  the  British  Museum 
possesses  at  least  two  manuscripts  (Add.  9994  and  Add. 
22,374),  and  its  contents  are  fully  described  at  pp.  265-271 
of  the  old  Arabic  Catalogue.  It  comprises  seven  chapters, 
of  which  the  first  treats  of  the  poets  of  the  Arabian  Desert  and 
Hijaz  (27  notices)  ;  the  second  of  the  poets  of  Syria,  Diyar 
Bakr,  Mesopotamia,  Adharbayjdn,  and  other  lands  west  of 
Persia  proper  (70  notices)  ;  the  third  of  the  poets  of  'Iraq 
(64  notices)  ;  the  fourth  of  the  poets  of  Ray,  al-Jibal, 
Isfahan,  Pars,  and  Kirman  (72  notices)  ;  the  fifth  of  the 
poets  of  Jurjan,  Astarabad,  Qumis,  Dihistan,  and  Khwarazm 
(55  notices)  ;  the  sixth  of  the  poets  of  Khurasan,  Kuhistan 
Bust,  Sistan,  and  Ghazna  (225  notices)  ;  and  the  seventh  of 
eminent  literary  men  who  were  not  poets  (20  notices).  In 
this  work  one  is  struck  not  only  by  the  very  large  number 
of  natives  of  Persia  who  appear  as  the  authors  of  Arabic  verse, 
but  by  the  essentially  Persian  names  or  titles  of  many  of  them. 
Some  were  recent  converts  from  Zoroastrianism  (perhaps  in 
some  cases  actual  Zoroastrians),  such  as  Ibn  Mahabzud  (i.e.y 
M&h-afaud)  "  the  Magian  "  (al-Majusi),  and  Mahyar  b. 
Marzuya  of  Daylam,  who  was  converted  to  Islam  in  A.D. 
1003-4  by  the  Sharif  ar-Radf,  a  much  more  famous  poet  than 
himself;1  others  have  names,  such  as  Khusraw  Firuz, 
Durustuya,  and  Fana-Khusraw  (for  Panah-fChusraw),  or 
titles,  such  as  DihkhuJa,  Div-dadf,  so  essentially  Persian  that 
no  doubt  as  to  their  origin  is  possible.  Other  later  works 
of  the  same  class  are  the  Zaynatuz-Zaman  of  Shamsu'd-Din 
Muhammad  of  Andakhud,  the  Kharidatu  l-^asr  of  'Imadu'd- 
Dln  al-Katib  al-Isfahani,  &c. 

1  See  de  Slane's  transl.  of  Ibn  Khallikan,  vol.  Hi,  p.  517  ;  and  T.  W. 
Arnold's  Preaching  of  Isldm  (London,  1896),  p.  180. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  449 

For  the  Persian-writing  poets  of  Persia  the  chief  primary 
authorities  now  extant  are  the  Chah&r  Maq&la,  or  "  Four 

Discourses"  of  the  Ghurid  court-poet  Nidhimf- 
*&er^aunr-ces  i-'Arudf  of  Satnarqand  (written  about  A.D.  1155), 
wrthinsgpSof  and  the  Lubdbu'l  A  Mb  of  Muhammad  «Awfl 

(written  in  the  first  half  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury). Of  the  former  I  published  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  1899 

a  complete  translation  (obtainable  also  as  a  ttrage- 
rhuw<u?r  &-part\  based  on  the  Tihran  lithographed  edition 

(A.H.  1305  =  A.D.  1887-8)  and  the  two  British 
Museum  manuscripts  (Or.  2,956  and  Or.  3507) ;  while 

the  latter,  based  on  the  Elliot  Codex  described  by 

'Awfi's  Lubdb 

N.   Bland  in   the   J.  R.  A.  5.,  vol.  ix,  pp.   112 
ft  seqq.^  and  the  Berlin  Codex   (Sprenger  318  =  No.  637   of 
Pertsch's  Catalogue),  will  form  the  next  volume  of  my  Persian 
Historical  Text    Series.1     Another    important    work    (unfor- 
tunately, as  it   would  appear,  no  longer  extant) 
4-K&*£.      was    the    Manaqibush-Shu'ara   ("Traits    of    the 
Poets")  of  Abu  Tahir  al-Khatunf,*  a  well-known 
poet  and  writer  of  the  Seljuq  period.     All   these  authorities 
were  used   directly  and   indirectly  by  Dawlatshah  (wrote  in 
A.D.     1487),    and     by    the     later    compilers    of     Tadhkiras 
("Memoirs")    of    the    Persian    poets;    and    'Awff    in    par- 
ticular is  extensively  cited    by    Rida-quH    Khan,  the  author 
of  one  of  the  most  modern  and  most  complete  works  of  this 
nature,     the     Majma'ul-Fusahd     (2    vols.,    lith. 
torttfgw-i-  Tihran,    A.H.     1295  =  A.D.     1878).       Another 
ancient   though    somewhat  scanty  source  of  in- 
formation, which  at  least  serves  to  show  us  how  many  Persian- 

1  The  first  Codex  is  now  in  the  possession  of  the  John  Rylands  Library 
at  Manchester,  having  been  bought  in  August,  1901,  by  Mrs.  Rylands  from 
Lord  Crawford  and  Balcarres,  for  whose  library  it  was  purchased  at  the 
sale  of  Eland's  MSS.  To  Lord  Crawford  and  to  the  Berlin  Library  I  am 
deeply  indebted  for  the  liberality  with  which  they  placed  these  rare 
manuscripts  at  my  disposal  in  Cambridge. 

•  See  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1899,  pp.  42-3. 

30 


450         THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA 

writing  poets  flourished  before  the  middle  of  the  eleventh 
century  of  our  era,  is  the  Lughat-i-Furs,  or  Persian  Lexicon, 
of  Asadi  of  TUS,  composed  about  A.D.  1060,  and  edited  from 
the  old  Vatican  MS.  (Pers.  XXII),  transcribed  in  A.D.  1332, 
by  Dr.  Paul  Horn  (Strassburg,  1897). *  In  this  most  valuable 
work  verses  of  some  seventy-eight  poets,  many  of  them  other- 
wise unknown  or  scarcely  known  even  by  name,  are  cited. 

Having  now  considered  the  sources  available  to  us  for  a 
study  of  the  literary  phenomena  presented  by  Persia  at  this 
period,  we  shall  consider  first  the  Persian-  and  then  the  Arabic- 
writing  poets  who  flourished  under  the  Tdhirid,  Saffdrid, 
Sdmdnid,  and  other  contemporary  dynasties,  deriving  our 
information  concerning  the  former  chiefly  from  'Awff's 
Lubdb^  and  for  the  latter  from  Tha'alibl's  Tatlma.  The 
latter  work  has  been  already  sufficiently  described,  but, 
pending  the  publication  of  my  edition  of  the  latter,  some 
account  of  its  contents  is  here  given. 

Of  the  author  of  this  work,  Muhammad  'Awfl,  nearly  all 

that   is   known    will    be    found   on    pp.    749-750   of    Rieu's 

Catalogue  of  the  Persian  Manuscripts  in  the  British 

Description  of  J 

•Awff's  LvMbu-  Museum.     He  claimed  descent  from  'Abdu'r  Rah- 

'l-Albdb. 

man  b.  'Awf,  one  of  the  six  Companions  of  the 
Prophet  who  were  appointed  by  the  dying  Caliph  cUmar  to 
choose  his  successor  from  their  midst.  His  repeated  references 
to  poets  whom  he  had  met  at  different  dates  and  in  different 
towns  in  Persia  show  that  he  had  travelled  widely  in  Khurasan 
and  the  neighbouring  lands  about  the  beginning  of  the  seventh 
century  of  the  hijra  (circ.  A.D.  1200).  He  subsequently 
resided  in  India,  first  at  the  Court  of  Nasiru'd  Din  Qubacha, 
and  then  at  that  of  Shamsu'd-Dm  Iltatmish,  after  the  over- 

1  Another  MS.  was  discovered  by  Dr.  Ethe  amongst  the  India  Office 
Persian  MSS.  (No.  2516  =  No.  2455  of  the  forthcoming  Catalogue,  cols. 
1321-1335).  This  Asadi  was  the  transcriber  of  the  oldest  extant  Persian 
MS.,  the  Vienna  Codex  of  Abu  Mansur  al-Muwaffaq's  Pharmacology, 
edited  by  Seligmann  (Vienna,  1859).  This  Codex  is  dated  A.H.  447 
(  =  A.D.  1055-6). 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  451 

throw  of  his  former  patron  by  the  latter  in  A.H.  625 
(  =  A.D.  1228).  Besides  the  Lubab  he  was  the  author  of 
a  vast  collection  of  stories  entitled  the  yawamPul-Hlkayat, 
consisting  of  four  books,  each  comprising  twenty-five  chapters. 
The  Lubab^  notwithstanding  its  age,  is  in  some  ways  a  dis- 
appointing book,  owing  to  the  undue  prominence  which  it 
gives  to  the  poets  of  Khurasin,  and  the  almost  complete  lack 
of  biographical  particulars.  Indeed,  it  is  rather  to  be  regarded 
as  a  vast  anthology  than  as  a  biography.  It  is  divided  as 
follows  into  twelve  chapters,  of  which  the  first  seven  make 
up  vol.  i,  and  the  last  five  the  larger  and  more  interesting 
vol.  ii : — 

Chapter        I.    On  the  Excellence  of  Poetry. 

„  II.     Etymology  of  the  word  shi'r  (Poetry). 

„          III.    Who  first  composed  poetry. 

„  IV.    Who  first  composed  poetry  in  Persian. 

„  V.     Kings  and  nobles  who  wrote  verse. 

„  VI.     Ministers  and  officials  who  wrote  verse. 

„  VII.  Theologians,  doctors,  and  scholars  who  wrote 
verse. 

„  VIII.  Poets  of  the  Tahiri,  Saffarf,  and  Samani  dyn- 
asties. 

„  IX.     Poets  of  the  Ghaznawi  dynasty. 

„  X.     Poets  of  the  Seljuq  dynasty. 

„  XI.     Poets  contemporary  with  the  Author. 

„  XII.  Courtiers  contemporary  with  the  Author  who 
wrote  verses. 

The  first  volume,  which  deals  with  those  who  were  not 
poets  by  profession,  contains  about  122  notices;  and  the 
second,  dealing  with  poets  by  profession,  about  164  notices: 
in  all,  about  286  notices  of  poets  who  lived  before  A.H.  625 
(A.D.  1228).  The  credit  of  making  known  to  European 
scholars  the  contents  of  this  valuable  compilation  belongs 
primarily  to  Nathaniel  Bland,  who,  under  the  title  of  The 
Afost  Ancient  Persian  Biography  of  Poets^  described  at  con- 
siderable length  the  manuscript  which  belonged  successively  to 


452         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

J.  B.  Elliott  (A.D.  1825)  and  Lord  Crawford  (1866-1901),  and 
which  has  lately  (August,  1901)  been  bought  by  Mrs.  Rylands 
for  the  John  Rylands  Library  at  Manchester,  in  vol.  ix 
(pp.  112  et  seqq.}  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society's  "Journal;  and 
the  other  known  manuscript  (now  at  Berlin)  was  described  by 
Dr.  Sprenger  at  pp.  I— 6  of  his  Catalogue  of  the  .  .  .  Manuscripts 
of  the  Library  of  the  King  of  Oudh  (Calcutta,  1854).*  Since 
then  Dr.  Eth£,  of  Aberystwyth,  has  made  great  use  of  it 
in  a  series  of  admirable  monographs  on  the  earlier  Persian 
poets 2  which  he  has  published  in  various  German  periodicals  ; 
and  now  I  hope  that  the  text  will  soon  be  available  to  all 
Persian  scholars  in  the  edition  which  I  am  about  to  publish. 
Here  it  will'  only  be  possible  to  notice  a  few  of  the  most 
notable  poets  of  the  earliest  period.  3 

(i)  Handjiala  of  Bddghfs  is  the  only  Persian  poet  belonging 
to  the  Tahirid  period  (A.D.  820-872)  mentioned  by  'Awff, 
who  cites  only  the  two  following  couplets  4  : — 

"  Though  rue-seed  in  the  fire  my  sweetheart  threw 
Lest  hurt  should  from  the  Evil  Eye  accrue, 
I  fear  nor  fire  nor  rue  can  aught  avail 
That  face  like  fire  and  beauty-spot  like  rue!"* 


1  This  MS.  is  also  described  by  Pertscb  on  pp.  596-7  of  the  Berlin 
Catalogue  of  Persian  MSS.  (1888). 

3  These  are  :  Rudagi,  der  Sdmanidendichter  (1873)  ;  Rudagi's  Vorlttufcr 
und  Zeitgenossen  (1875)  ;  Firdusi  (sic)  als  Lyriker  (1872) ;  Die  Lieder  des 
Kisai  (1874),  &c. 

3  For  reasons  already  given  (p.  13,  n.  3  supra),  I  exclude  the  verses  alleged 
by  'Awfi  to  have  been  composed  by  a  certain  'Abbas  of  Merv,  in  A.D.  809, 
in  honour  of  the  Caliph  al-Ma'mun,  since  I  agree  with  A.  de  Biberstein 
Kazimirski  in  regarding  them  as  spurious. 

4  The  other  two  couplets  ascribed  to  him  in  the  Haft  Iqlim  (see  Ethe, 
Rudagi's  Vorltiufer,  p.  40)  are  really  by  a  different  poet.    See  p.  355  supra. 

5  The  seed  of  the  wild  rue  (sipand)  is  burned  as  a  fumigation  against 
the  Evil  Eye  or  "  Eye  of  Perfection  "  ('Aynu'l  Kamdl),  so  called  because 
whatever  is  perfect  of  its  kind  is  especially  subject  to  its  malevolent 
influence.    The  poet  compares  his  sweetheart's  bright  face  and  dark 
beauty-spot  to  the  fire  and  the  rue-seed,  and  implies  that  they  are  too 
perfect  to  be  so  easily  protected  against  the  Evil  Eye. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  453 

(2)  Flruz  al-Mashriqi)  whom  4Awf{  next  mentions,  lived  in 
the  time  of  4Amr  b.  Layth  the  Saffirid  (A.D.  878-900).     Of 
his  verses  likewise  only  two  couplets  are  handed  down  :  — 

"A  bird  the  Arrow  is  —  strange  bird  of  doom/ 
Souls  are  its  prey,  the  quarry  of  its  quest: 
It  borrows  for  its  use  the  eagle's  plume, 
Thereby  to  claim  the  eaglet  as  its  guest." 

(3)  Abu  Salik  of  Gurgan  concludes  the  short  list  of  Tahind 
and  Samanid  poets.     Two  separate  fragments  of  his  verse,  each 
consisting  of  two  couplets,  are  cited  by  4Awff. 

The  remaining  twenty-eight  poets  mentioned  in  this  chapter 
all  belong  to  the  Samanid  period,  but  some  of  them  were  under 
the  patronage  of  the  House  of  Buwayh  (e.g.,  Mansur  b.  'AH 
al-Mantiq{  ar-Raz{  and  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  b.  'AH 
Khusrawl  of  Sarakhs,  both  of  whom  were  patronised  by 
that  generous  minister  the  Sdhib  Isma'fl  b.  'Abbdd),  others 
(e.g.)  the  last-mentioned  poet,  and  Abu'l-Qdsim  Ziyad  b. 
Muhammad  Qumrf  of  Gurgdn)  sung  the  praises  of  the 
Ziyarids  of  Tabaristan,  others  (e.g.,  Daqfqf  and  Manjik)  of 
the  Chaghanf  or  Farfghuni  rulers,  and  others  of  the  early 
Kings  of  Ghazna  ;  while  some  half-dozen  seem  to  have  had 
no  special  patron.  Most  of  them  are  mentioned,  and  their 
extant  verses  cited,  by  Eth£  r  in  his  already  cited  article 
(published  in  Professor  Fleischer's  Festschrift,  entitled  Mor- 
genlBndische  Forschungeny  Leipzig,  1875,  pp.  35-68),  and  only 
a  few  of  the  most  notable  need  detain  us  here.  Three  or  four 
are  described  as  Dhufl-Lisanayn  ("  Masters  of  the  two  lan- 
guages"), or  bilingual  poets,  composing  verses  both  in  Arabic 
and  Persian  :  of  these  are  Shaykh  Abu'l-Hasan  Shahfd  of 
Balkh,  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  b.  'AH  Khusrawf  of  Sarakhs, 
and  Abu  'Abdi'llah  Muhammad  b.  'Abdu'lldh  Junaydf, 
who  is  stated  by  'Awfl  to  be  mentioned  in  the 


1  Of  the  thirty-one  poets  included   by  'Awfi  in  this  chapter,  Ethe 
mentions  about  twenty,  and  adds  two  or  three  more. 


454         THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA 

though    I    have   hitherto  been  unable   to  find  any   notice  of 
him  in  that  work. 

(4)  Shahld  of  Balkh.  Of  this  poet  seven  pieces  of  Persian 
verse,  comprising  fifteen  couplets,  and  three  couplets  of 
Arabic  are  recorded  by  'Awfi,  as  well  as  some  verses  composed 
on  his  death  by  Rudagf,  who  says  that  though,  according  to 
the  reckoning  of  the  eyes,  one  man  has  passed  away,  in  the 
estimate  of  wisdom  it  is  as  though  more  than  a  thousand  had 
died.  The  following  translations  are  given  as  specimens  of 
his  work  : — 


"  The  cloud  doth  weep  as  weeps  the  Lover,  while 
Like  the  Beloved  doth  the  Garden  smile ; 
Afar  the  thunder,  like  myself,  doth  groan, 
When  -with  the  dawn  I  raise  my  piteous  moan." 

"  Had  sorrow  smoke  like  fire,  I  do  protest 
The  world  would  e'er  remain  in  darkness  dresst ; 
Search  the  world  through  and  through  :  thou  wilt  not  find 
One  man  of  wit  who's  not  by  grief  oppresst." 


Some  of  his  Arabic  verses  are  said  to  be  given  in  an 
anthology  (otherwise  unknown)  entitled  Hamdsatu 'dk-Dhurafd, 
compiled  by  Abu  Muhammad  'Abdu'1-Kafi-i-Zawzani. 

(5)  Abu.  Shu'ayb  Salih  b.  Muhammad  of  Herat  is  chiefly 
known  as  the  author  of  five  couplets  in  praise  of  a  pretty 
Christian  child,  of  which  the  first  three  are  to  the  following 
effect  : — 


"Face  and  figure  meet  for  Heaven,  holding  doctrines  doomed  to  hell, 
Chain-like    ringlets,  cheek  like  tulips,   eyes  that    shame    the    sweet 

gazelle, 
Mouth  as  though  some  Chinese  painter  with  his  brush  had  drawn 

a  line 

Of  vermilion  on  a  ground  of  musk  to  form  those  lips  of  thine. 
'Midst  the  swarthy  ^Ethiopians  could  his  grace  divided  be, 
Each  would  have  wherewith  to  stir  the  Turkish  beauties'  jealousy" 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  455 

(6)  Abb  'Abdfllah  Muhammad  b.  Musa  al-Faralawl T  was  a 
contemporary  of  the  above-mentioned  Shahid,  with  whom  he 
is  "  bracketed  "  by  the  later  and  greater  Rudagf,  of  whom  we 
shall  speak  directly,  in  a  verse  cited  by  'Awff.     The  following 
fragment  alone  survives  of  his  poems  : — 

"  What  greater  claim  on  me  than  him  to  greet, 
To  whom  I  ne'er  can  render  service  meet  f 
For  service  poorly  rendered  none  I  need 
Save  his  great  charity  to  intercede." 

(7)  Abu  « Abdullah    Ja'far  b.  Muhammad   ar-Rawdhakl,* 
commonly  called  Rudakl  or  Rudagf  is  generally  reckoned  the 
first  really  great  poet  of  Muhammadan  Persia  ;  and  Bal'amf, 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Isma'il  b.  Ahmad  the  Samanid   (A.D. 
892-907),  and  father  of  the  translator  into  Persian  of  TabarPs 
Great  Chronicle,3  even  went  so  far  as  to  declare  that  he  was 
"  peerless  amongst  the  Arabs  and  the  Persians."  4     Amongst 
contemporary  poets  also  he  appears  to  have  enjoyed  a  high 
reputation.     Shahfd  of  Balkh  says  in  a  verse  cited  by  4Awf{ 
that  "  l  Bravo  ! '  and  c  Well  done  ! '  are  praise  to  other  poets, 
but  it  would  be  satire  to  say  c  Bravo  ! '  and  '  Well  done  !  '  to 
Rudagf."     By  Ma'ruff  of  Balkh  he  is  called  "  the  King  of 
poets"  (Sultan-i-shd(-'irdn}y  and  from  the  words  ascribed  to  him, 
"  Incline  to  no  one  in  the  world  but  to  the  Fatimid,"  it  would 
appear  as  though  he  was  in  sympathy  with  the  Isma'Ilfs,  which 

1  Ethe,  using  only  the  Berlin  Codex  of  'Avvfi,  reads  Fardlddi,  but  the 
better  Elliott  Codex,  as  well  as  the  Majma'u'l-Fusahd,  has  clearly  d,  not  w, 
and  this  reading  is  confirmed  by  the  verse  of  Kudagi  cited  by  'Awfi  in 
which  the  name  rhymes  with  rdwi. 

*  In  a  passage  from  an  Arabic  work  entitled  Ghydtu'l-Wasd'il  ila 
Ma'rifati'l-awd'il,  which  I  have  cited  at  pp.  125-6  of  my  Handlist  of  the 
Muhamtnadan  MSS.  in  the  Library  of  the  University  of  Cambridge t 
Rudagi's  pedigree  is  carried  three  generations  further  back  (b.  Muhammad 
b.  Hakim  b.  'Abdu'r-Rahmdn  b.  Adam),  and  he  is  described  as  "the  first 
to  produce  fine  poetry  in  Persian  "  (see  p.  356  supra). 

3  A  French  translation  of  the  younger  Bal'ami's  version  by  Zotenbger 
was  published  in  Paris  in  1867-1874  in  four  volumes. 

«  Handlist,  p.  126,  11.  3-4. 


456         THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA 

agrees  very  well  with  the  Isma'ili  proclivities  ascribed  to  his 
master  and  patron,  the  Samanid  Prince  Nasr  II  b.  Ahmad 
(A.D.  913-942),  by  the  Nidhamu'1-Mulk  in  his  Siydsat-nama 
(ed.  Schefer,  pp.  188-193).  Daqlqf  also,  the  predecessor  of 
Firdaws{,  says  that  for  him  to  praise  one  who  had  been  the 
object  of  Rudagi's  panegyrics  would  be  "to  bring  dates  to 
Hajar "  (or,  as  we  say  in  English,  "  to  bring  coals  to 
Newcastle ").  Even  'Unsurf,  the  Poet  Laureate  of  Sultan 
Mahmud  of  Ghazna,  admits  that  in  the  ghazal,  or  ode,  he 
cannot  rival  Rudagf. 

Riidagi  was  born  in  a  village  near  Samarqand,  and  is  stated 
by  <Awff  (though  Dr.  Eth.e"  doubts  the  truth  of  this  statement) 
to  have  been  blind  from  his  birth.  He  was  not  only  a  graceful 
poet  but  a  sweet  singer,  and  withal  skilful  in  the  use  of  the 
harp  and  lute  ;  and  he  stood  in  high  favour  with  his  royal 
patron  Nasr  II.  Indeed  the  most  celebrated  of  his  achieve- 
ments (mentioned  in  almost  every  biography  of  Persian  poets) 
is  connected  with  an  improvisation  of  which  the  circumstances 
have  been  already  mentioned  in  the  first  chapter  of  this  book 
(pp.  14-16  supra\  and  which  was,  apparently,  sung  by  him 
before  the  King  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  harp.1  Towards 
the  end  of  his  life2  (possibly  for  reasons  connected  with  his 
religious  beliefs,  to  which  allusion  has  already  been  made)  he 
fell  from  favour  and  was  overtaken  by  poverty,  but  in  the 
heyday  of  his  popularity  he  is  said  by  *Awf{  to  have  possessed 
two  hundred  slaves,  while  a  hundred  camels  3  were  required  to 
carry  his  baggage.  His  verses",  according  to  the  same  authority, 
filled  a  hundred  volumes ;  while  Jami  in  his  Bah&rht&n  states, 

1  The  oldest,  fullest  and  most  authentic  version  of  this  story  occurs  in 
the  Chahdr  Maqdla  of  Nidhami-i-'Arudi  of  Samarqand.  See  my  trans- 
lation of  that  work  (Luzac,  1899),  PP-  5I-56  >  a°d  also  my  article  on  the 
Sources  of  Dawlatshdh  in  the  J.  R.  A.  S.  for  January,  1899,  pp.  61-69. 

*  He  died,  according  to  as-Sam'ani  (cited  by  al-Manini  in  his  com- 
mentary on  the  Ta'rikhu'l-'Utbi,  Cairo  ed.  of  A.H.  1286,  vol.  i,  p.  52)  in  A.H. 
329  =  A.D.  940-1. 

3  Jami  exaggerates  this  number  to  four  hundred. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   looo  4$; 

on  the  alleged  authority  of  the  Kitab-i-YamM  (Le.  UtbPs 
history  of  Sultan  Mahmud  of  Ghazna),  that  they  amounted  to 
one  million  and  three  hundred  couplets.1  Of  these  only  a 
very  small  proportion  have  come  down  to  our  time,  though 
many  more  than  was  formerly  supposed.  Thus  Dr.  Horn  has 
pointed  out  in  his  excellent  edition  of  AsadPs  Lug ha tu I- Furs 
(pp.  1 8-2 1 )  that  Riidagi  is  cited  in  that  work  more  often  than 
any  other  old  poet,  and  he  gives  some  sixteen  couplets  from  his 
lost  mathnawi  of  Kalilaand  Dimna  alone,  and  there  are  a  good 
many  inedited  anthologies  and  similar  works  in  the  British 
Museum  and  other  large  libraries  of  Europe  which  would  yield 
a  very  considerable  quantity  of  his  work.  Dr.  Eth£  in  his 
admirable  monograph  on  Rudagi  2  has  collected  together  from 
such  sources  fifty-two  fragments  of  greater  or  less  length, 
amounting  in  all  to  242  couplets,  and  from  the  additional 
sources  of  information  rendered  available  within  the  last 
thirty  years,  there  is  no  doubt  that  this  number  could  now 
be  largely  increased.  As  Dr.  Eth6  has  appended  German 
verse-translations  to  all  the  fragments  of  Rudagf  which 
he  has  collected  in  the  above-mentioned  monograph,  it 
appears  unnecessary  to  give  here  any  further  specimens  of 
his  poetry  for  the  European  reader,  save  the  two  following 
fragments  translated  by  my  dear  old  teacher,  Professor  Cowell 
(=  Eth£,  Nos.  20  and  41) : — 

"Bring  me  yon  wine  which  thou  might 'st  call  a  melted  ruby  in  its  cup, 
Or  like  a  scimetar  unsheathed,  in  the  sun's  noon-tide  light  held  up. 
'Tis  the  rose-water,  thou  might  st  say,  yea  thence  distilled  for  purity ; 
Its  sweetness  falls  as  sleep's  own  balm  steals  o'er  the  vigil-wearied  eye. 


1  The  poet  Rashidi  of  Samarqand  in  one  of  his  poems  says  that  he 
counted  Rudagi's  verses,  and  found  that  they  amounted  to  thirteen  times 
100,000  (i.e.,  one  million  and  three  hundred  thousand),  which  is  probably 
what  Jami  was  thinking  of. 

*  Nachrichten  von  der  Kdnigl.  Gesellschaft  der  Wissenchaflen  u.  dcr  G. 
A.  Universitat  zu  GStthigen,  No.  25,  November  12,  1873,  pp.  663-742. 


458         THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA 

Thou    might est   call    the    cup    the   cloud,  the   wine    the  raindrop 

from   it  cast, 
Or  say  the  joy  that  fills  the  heart  whose  prayer  long  looked-for 

comes  at  last. 
Were  there  no  wine  all  hearts  would  be  a  desert  waste,  forlorn 

and  black, 
But  were   our  last   life-breath   extinct,    the   sight   of  wine   would 

bring  it  back. 

O  if  an  eagle  would  but  swoop,  and  bear  the  wine  up  to  the  sky, 
Far  out  of  reach  of  all  the   base,  who  would  not  shout  '  Well 

done  !'  as  I?" 

"  When  I  am  dead,  my  last  breath  sighed  away, 
And  spent  my  latest  wish  with  no  return, 
Come  by  my  bed  and  whisper  o'er  my  clay, 
'  I  killed  thee,  and  'tis  I  who  now  must  mourn. ' " 

(8)  Shaykh  Abul-^Abbas,  Fadl  b.  lAbbas^  a  contemporary  of 
Rudagf,  mourned  the  patron  of  the  latter,  Nasr  II,  and  at  the 
same  time  hailed  his  successor  in  the  following  lines  : — 

"From  us  ts  snatched  a  King  of  noble  race, 
Another,  brave  and  high-born,  takes  his  place. 
For  him  who's  gone  Time  sorrows  with  one  voice, 
For  him  now  crowned  the  World's  heart  doth  rejoice. 
Look  with  the  eye  of  Wisdom,  now,  and  say, 
(  God  giveth,  even  when  He  takes  away  ! ' 
The  Lamp  which  shines  He  may  extinguish,  yet 
Again  another  in  its  place  doth  set. 
Unlucky  Saturn  heavy  blows  may  deal, 
Yet  Jupiter  transmutes  the  woe  to  weal" 

(9)  Shaykh    Abu     Zurfra    al-Mu^ammarl    (or    Mi'mari,   or 
Mi'mdrl)  of  Gurgan,  on  being  bidden  by  a  noble  of  Khurasan 
to  compose  verse  like  RiidagPs,  replied  thus  : — 

"  Though  I  have  not  Riidagi's  fortune,  let  that  not  amaze 
Nor  cause  you  to  think  me  behind  him  in  sonnets  and  lays. 
He  amassed,  at  the  price  of  his  eyesight,  great  treasure,  we're  told, 
But  ne'er  would  I  barter  my  eyesight  for  silver  or  gold  I 
Of  what  princes  gave  him  as  gifts  give  one  thousandth  to  me, 
And  a  thousand  times  sweeter  than  his  shall  my  melody  be." 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  459 

From  the  following  fragment  it  would  appear  that  he 
considered  his  military  talents  to  be  equal  to  his  literary 
skill  :— 

"  Where  there  is  giving  afoot,  for  silver  gold  do  I  fling, 
And  where   there  is  speaking,  hard  steel  to  the  softness  of  wax 

I  bring: 

Where  there  are  winds  a-whirling,  there  like  the  wind  I  pass, 
Now  with  the  lute  and  the  goblet,  now  with  the  mailed  cuirass!" 

Passing  over  Abu  hhaq  Ibrahim  b.  Muhammad  al-Bukhdrl 
al-Juybari,  of  whose  life  and  date  'Awff  says  nothing  save 
that  he  was  by  profession  a  goldsmith,  but  of  whose  verse  he 
cites  five  couplets,  we  come  to  another  really  important  poet, 
Firdawsi's  predecessor — 

(10)  Abu  Mansur  Muhammad  b.  Ahmad  ad-Daqlqi  of  Tus. 
In  spite  of  the  essentially  and  almost  aggressively  Muhammadan 
name  of  this  poet,  it  has  been  contended  by  Ethe^1  Noldeke,2 
and,  less  decidedly,  by  Horn,3  that  he  was  a  Zoroastrian,  this 
opinion  being  based  on  the  following  verses  with  which  one  of 
his  poems  concludes  4  : — 

"  Of  all  that's  good  or  evil  in  the  world 

Four  things  suffice  to  meet  Daqiqfs  need: 
The  ruby-coloured  lip,  the  harp's  lament, 
The  blood-red  wine,  and  Zoroaster's  creed." 

Though  these  verses,  notwithstanding  what  is  said  by  Eth6 
(who  only  had  at  his  disposal  the  Berlin  manuscript  of  cAwfi, 
which  has  a  lacuna  at  this  point),  are  not  given  by  'Awfi,  I  am 
not  disposed  to  doubt  their  genuineness,  but  I  think  too  much 
has  been  based  upon  them,  and  that  Daqiqfs  admiration  for 
"  Zoroaster's  creed  "  was  probably  confined  to  one  single  point 

1  Rudagi's  Vorhlufer  und  Zcitgenossen,  p.  59. 

•  Das  Iranischc  Nationalepos,  p.  18  (Separatabdruck  from  the  Grundriss 
der  Iranischen  Philologie,  Strassburg,  1896). 

3  Gesch.  d.  Persische  Litteratur,  p.  81  (Leipzig,  1901). 

4  Ethe,  op.  cit.,  p.  59. 


460         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

— its  sanction  of  wine-drinking  ;  which,  as  I  have  elsewhere 
remarked,1  is  still  a  very  prominent  feature  in  the  daily  life  of 
the  Persian  Zoroastrian. 

Daqiqfs  chief  claim  to  fame  is  that  he  was  first  entrusted 
with  the  versification  of  the  Persian  Epic,  but  when  he  had 
completed  about  one  thousand  couplets  of  that  portion  which 
deals  with  the  appearance  of  Zoroaster  and  the  establishment 
of  his  religion,  he  was  stabbed  by  a  Turkish  boy  who  was  his 
favourite  slave.2  Firdawsi,  in  consequence  of  a  vision  (which, 
probably  enough,  is  a  mere  poetic  figment)  incorporated 
Daqfql's  work  in  his  own,  but  not  without  passing  a  somewhat 
severe  and  ungenerous  criticism  on  its  merits — a  criticism 
which  Professor  Noldeke,  who  lias  carefully  compared  this 
portion  of  the  Shdhndma  with  Firdawsi's  work,  very  properly 
condemns  as  unfounded. 3  That  Daqfqf  stood  high  in  the 
esteem  of  his  contemporaries  is  shown  by  the  words  with 
which  As'ad  the  'Amid  presented  Farrukhl  to  the  Amir  Abu'l- 
Mudlhaffar,  "  O  Sire,  I  bring  thee  a  poet  the  like  of  whom 
the  Eye  of  Time  hath  not  seen  since  Daqiqf's  face  was  veiled 
in  death; "4  as  well  as  by  al-'Utbi's  brief  remarks 5  on  the  most 
eminent  poets  of  the  reign  of  Nuh  II  b.  Mansur  the  Sdmdnid 
(A.D.  976-997 ). 

Of  Daqiqfs  lyric  verse,  'Awff  gives  ten  fragments  com- 
prising in  all  twenty-seven  couplets,  and  Eth6  gives  three 
additional  fragments  (Nos.  I,  4,  and  6),  comprising  thirteen 

1  A  Year  amongst  the  Persians,  pp.  375-6. 

a  See  Turner  Macau's  edition  of  the  Shdhndma,  at  the  beginning  of 
vol.  iii  (p.  1065,  1.  n),  where  Daqiqi  is  made  to  say  to  Firdawsi  in  the 
vision  :  "  I  composed  a  thousand  couplets  about  Gushtasp  and  Arjasp, 
when  my  life  came  to  an  end."  The  portion  of  the  poem  ascribed  to 
Daqiqi  extends  from  p.  1065  to  p.  1103.  In  Viillers's  edition  this  is 
equivalent  to  vol.  iii,  pp.  1495-1553  ;  or  1001  couplets  minus  the  prologue 
of  13  couplets  =  988  couplets. 

3  Op.  cit.,  p.  20.     The  criticism  in  question  occurs  in  Macau's  ed.  on 
p.  1104. 

4  See  the  tiragc-a-part  of  my  translation  of  the  Chahdr  Maqdla,  p.  65. 

5  Ta'rikhu'l-'Utbi,  ed.  Cairo,  A.H.  1286,  vol.  ii,  p.  22. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  461 

couplets,  which  are  not  to  be  found  in  'Awfi.  The  following 
verses  form  part  of  a  qasida  in  praise  of  the  Amir  Abu  Sa'id 
Muhammad  [b.]  Mudhaffar  [b.]  Muhtaj-i-Chighanl  : — 

"  Thy  sword  to  guard  the  Empire  hath  God  as  sentry  set, 
Bounty  its  chosen  agent  hath  made  that  hand  of  thine: 
The  Ear  of  Fate  from  Heaven  is  strained  for  thy  command, 
And  gold  to  reach  thy  hand-hold  emergdh  from  the  mine" 

In  another  qasida  addressed  to  the  Sdmanid  ruler  Mansur  I 
(A.D.  961-976)  he  says  : — 

"O  King  recalling  Ddrd's  noble  line, 
Who  dost  in  Sdmdn's  sky  like  Pole-star  shine  ! 
Should  Satan  see  him  when  his  -wrath  is  stirred, 
Fearing  his  sieord,  he  would  accept  God's  Word. 
Ndhid  and  Hurmuz I  guide  his  soldier's  feet, 
While  Mars  and  Saturn  are  his  vanguard  fleet." 

In  another  qasida  addressed  to  Nuh  II  (A.D.  976-997),  the 
successor  of  the  king  last  mentioned,  he  says  : — 

"  The  circling  Heaven  lends  an  eager  ear 
That  what  the  King  commands  it  swift  may  hear. 
For  fear  of  him  Saturn,  most  sordy  tried, 
Scarce  dares  suwey  the  Sky's  expanses  wide." 

•\ 

•^-~  V 

The  following  lines  are  from  one  of  his  love-poems  : — 

"O  would  that  in  the  world  'twere  endless  day, 
That  from  those  lips  7  ne'er  need  'bide  away  ! 
But  for  those  scorpion  curls '  my  Love  doth  wear 
No  smart  like  scorpion-sting  my  heart  need  bear. 


1  Ndhid  (the  ancient  Andhita)  is  the  planet  Venus,  and  Hurmuz  (Almra- 
Mazda)  is  Jupiter,  these  being  the  two  fortunate  planets,  as  Saturn  and 
Mars  are  the  unlucky  ones. 

3  The  locks  (zulf)  of  the  Beloved,  by  reason  of  their  shape,  their 
blackness,  and  their  power  to  wound,  are  often  compared  to  a  scorpion. 


462         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

But  for  the  stars  *  which  'neath  those  lips  do  play, 
I  need  not  count  night's  stars  till  dawn  of  day.3 
Were  she  not  formed  of  all  that  is  most  fair 
Some  thought  beyond  her  love  my  soul  might  share. 
If  I  must  pass  my  life  without  my  Friend, 
O  God,  I  -would  my  life  were  at  an  end!" 

In  another  verse  he  says  : — 

"  Long  tarrying,  I'm  lightly  held  :  away  ! 
Even  an  honoured  guest  too  long  may  stay: 
Waters  which  in  the  well  too  long  repose 
Lose  all  their  flavour,  and  their  sweetness  goes." 

The  following  verse  is  descriptive  of  wine  : — 

"  Wrung  from  the  Grape  which  shines  as  shines  the  Light, 
Yet  Fire  consuming  is  its  soul  and  sprite  : 
Compounded  from  a  Star  whose  setting-place 
Is  in  the  Mouth,  yet  rises  in  the  Face." 

This  is  descriptive  of  a  bowl  of  iced  water  : — 

"  Water  and  ice  in  crystal  bowl  combine  : 
Behold  these  three,  which  like  a  bright  lamp  shine. 
Two  deliquescent,  one  hard-frozen  see, 
Yet  all  alike  of  hue  and  bright  of  blee." 

Of  the  remaining  poets  of  this  earliest  epoch  cited  by  <Awf{ 
(and,  for  the  most  part,  by  Eth£  also)  is  Manjlk,  who  was 
patronised  by  the  Chighdnf  amlrst  and  whose  verses  seem  often 
to  have  contained  rare,  archaic,  and  dialectal  expressions,  since 
in  the  following  century  we  find  the  poet  Oatran  of  Tabriz 
asking  Ndsir-i-Khusraw  to  explain  and  elucidate  them. 3 

1  This,  I  suppose,  is  a  metaphor  for  the  dimples  which  flash  and  flicker 
round  the  mouth  of  the  Beloved. 

3 "  To  count  the  stars,"  is,  both  with  the  Persian  poets  and  their 
Turkish  imitators,  a  common  expression  for  passing  sleepless  nights. 

3  Safar-ncima  (ed.  Schefer,  Paris,  1881),  p.  6  of  the  text  =  pp.  18-19  °f 
the  French  translation. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  463 

Then  comes  Abu  1- Hasan  'All  b.  Muhammad  al-Ghazzali  al- 
Lukarl^  who  has  some  very  pretty  verses  describing  a  beautiful 
Kurdish  boy,  and  other  lines  in  praise  of  Niih  II  b.  Mansur 
the  Samanid  Prince  (A.D.  976-997),  and  of  the  wazlr  Abu'l- 
Hasan  'Ubaydu'llah  b.  Ahmad  al-'Utbf.  Next  comes  Ma'rufl 
of  Ballch,  who  has  the  following  lines  in  praise  of  the  Samanid 
'Abdu'l-Maiik  I  (A.D.  954-961)  :— 

"0  Colocynth  and  Aloes  to  thy  foes, 
But  to  thy  friends  like  sugar,  honey-sweet  t 
The  use  of  foresight  no  one  better  knows, 
Nor  how  to  strike  the  first  when  blows  are  meet." 

Next  follows  Mansur  b.  '•All  al-Mantiqi  of  Ray,  one  of  the 
panegyrists  of  the  great  Sdhib  Ismail  b.  'Abbad,  the  wazlr  of 
the  House  of  Day  lam  (see  p.  453  supra),  to  whom  he  alludes 
in  the  following  lines  : — 

"  Methinks  the  Moon  of  Heav'n  is  stricken  sore, 
And  nightly  grievcth  as  it  wasteth  more. 
What  late  appeared  a  great,  round,  silver  shield 
Now  like  a  mall-bat '  enters  heaven's  field. 
The  Sahib's  horse,  you'd  think,  had  galloped  by, 
And  cast  one  golden  horse-shoe  in  the  sky." 

The  following  verse,  apart  from  the  pretty  hyperbole  which 
it  contains,  has  a  certain  adventitious  interest  : — 

"One  hair  I  stole  from  out  thy  raven  locks 
When  thou,  0  sweetheart,  didst  thy  tresses  comb, 
With  anxious  toil  /  bore  it  to  my  house, 
As  bears  the  ant  the  wheat-grain  to  its  home. 
My  father  when  he  saw  me  cried  amain, 
'  Which  is  my  son,  I  pray  thee,  of  these  twain  f "  • 

According   to  <AwfPs  narrative,   when    BadPuz-Zaman  of 

1  The  crescent  moon  is  here  compared  to  the  curved  head  of  a  polo-bat. 
•  Meaning  that  his  son,  Mansur,  was  so  wasted  with  love  that  he  could, 
scarce  be  distinguished  from  a  hair. 


464          THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Hamada'n,  Hariri's  great  rival  in  the  writing  of  Maqamat, 
came  to  visit  the  Sahib  at  the  age  of  twelve,  the  Sahib,  wishing 
to  test  his  skill,  bade  him  translate  these  lines  into  Arabic 
verse.  The  youthful  scholar  asked  what  rhyme  and  metre  he 
should  employ,  and  was  told  to  make  the  rhyme  in  ta  and  to 
use  the  metre  called  Sari1  ("the  Swift,"  in  the  variety  here 
used  : — uu —  |  — uu —  |  — u —  |  ),  whereupon  he  at  once 
extemporised  a  very  close  translation  in  Arabic,  to  the 
following  effect  : — 

"  /  stole  from  his  tresses  a  hair 

When  he  combed  them  with  care  in  the  morn  ; 

Then,  labouring,  bore  it  away 

As  the  ant  staggers  off  with  the  corn. 

Quoth  my  father,  '  Since  cither  would  go 

Through  the  eye  of  a  needle,  I  trow, 

Inform  me,  I  pray  thee,  which  one 

Of  the  twain  is  my  son  1  ' " 

Such  translations  of  Arabic  into  Persian  verse,  and  vice 
versa,  seem  to  have  been  a  very  favourite  exercise  with  scholars 
and  wits  from  this  period  onwards  into  Seljuq  times,  though 
unfortunately  it  is  not  always  possible  to  compare  the  version 
and  the  original,  one  or  other  having  been  lost.  Thus  we  find 
in  two  of  al-Bunddrf's  works,  his  abridged  Arabic  translation 
of  the  Shahndma  of  Firdawsf,  and  his  History  of  the  Seljiiq^ 
numerous  verse-renderings  in  Arabic  of  Persian  poems,1  which 
in  the  former  instance  can  be  compared  with  their  originals, 
but  in  the  latter,  as  a  rule,  not.  And  it  is  interesting  to  note 
that  the  translators -considered  themselves  under  no  obligation 
to  preserve  the  form,  metre,  or  rhyme  of  the  original,  but  only 

1  This  Arabic  version  of  the  Shdhndma  exists  only  in  manuscript,  and  is 
rare,  but  there  is  a  fine  old  copy  in  the  Cambridge  University  Library,  and 
others  at  Paris  and  Berlin  (see  pp.  43-4  of  my  Handlist  of  Muhammad  an 
MSS.)  The  Seljuq  History  has  been  edited  in  the  most  scholarly  way  by 
Houtsma  (Brill,  Leyden,  1889).  Arabic  verse-translations  of  Persian 
originals  occur  on  p.  85  (verses  of  Abu  Mansur  of  Aba),  p.  86  (verses  of 
the  Mu'ayyidu'1-Mulk),  p.  105  (verses  of  Abu  Tahir  al-Khatuni),  &c. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  465 

the  meaning,  and  this  though  they  were  practically  bilingual 
(dhul-lisanayn\  and  though  the  metrical  system  of  the  Arabs 
and  Persians  is  substantially  identical.  On  this  ground  alone 
I  consider,  contrary  to  the  view  of  many  eminent  Orientalists, 
notably  my  deeply  lamented  friend,  Mr.  E.  J.  W.  Gibb,  whose 
great  History  of  Ottoman  Poetry  has  been  already  mentioned  in 
several  places,  that  he  who  seeks  to  render  the  poetry  of  the 
East  into  a  Western  tongue  may  most  justly  claim  the  same 
indulgence  as  these  old  masters  of  Arabic  and  Persian  took 
when  translating  in  verse  from  the  one  language  into  the 
other  ;  and  indeed,  having  regard  to  the  wide  differences  which 
separate  our  verse-forms  and  laws  of  prosody  from  those  of  the 
Muhammadan  nations,  we  are  doubly  justified  in  demanding 
the  right  to  take  equal  liberties  with  the  forms,  though  not 
with  the  substance  of  our  originals. 

With  Mantiqf  we  notice  a  more  artificial  style,  and  a  greater 
fondness  for  rhetorical  devices,  than  is  the  case  with  the  early 
poets  hitherto  mentioned  :  in  particular,  a  fondness  for  the 
figure  known  as  "  poetical  aetiology  "  (husn-i-ta'/tl),  as,  for 
instance,  when  he  ascribes  the  "  pallor  "  or  "  sallowness  "  of 
the  sun  to  its  fear  of  trespassing  on  the  realms  of  his  patron  in 
its  passage  across  the  sky,  and  that  of  the  gold  dln&r  to  its 
dread  of  his  lavish  and  prodigal  hands  ;  or  the  "  trembling " 
(or  twinkling)  of  the  stars  to  their  dread  of  his  far-reaching 
sword.  This  characteristic  is  due,  I  think,  not  so  much  to 
personal  idiosyncrasy  as  to  the  fact  that  the  Buwayhid  Court 
of  'Iraq  was,  owing  to  its  greater  proximity  to,  and  closer 
connection  with,  the  metropolis  of  Baghdad,  more  directly 
subject  to  the  literary  influences  and  tendencies  of  Arabic- 
speaking  and  Arabic-writing  men  of  letters  than  the  Samdnid 
Court  of  far  Khurasan.  For  this  very  reason,  perhaps, 
Khurasan  is  regarded  (and  justly  so)  as  the  cradle  of  the 
Persian  Renaissance  ;  yet  that  it  was  considered  far  behind 
'Iraq  in  literary  culture  clearly  appears  from  the  following 
verses  (cited  in  the  Yatlma,  vol.  iv,  p.  3)  of  Abu  Ahmad  b. 

31 


466         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Abu  Bakr  al-Kdtib  (the  secretary),  whose  father  was  secretary 
to  the  Samanid  Prince  Isma'il  b.  Ahmad  (A.D.  892-907)  and 
wazlr  to  his  son  and  successor  Ahmad  b.  Isma'il  (A.D. 
907-913)  :— 


"  Wondei  not  at  a  man   of  'Iraq  in  whom   fhou  seest  an  ocean  of 

learning  and  a  treasure  of  culture  ; 

Wonder  ratf,er  at  one  whose  home  is  in  the  lands  of  ignorance  if 
he  be  able  to  distinguish  head  from  tail  I " 

These  lines  were,  of  course,  written  before  that  brilliant 
epoch  described  in  another  passage  of  the  Tathna  (vol.  iv, 
pp.  33-4  :  see  pp.  365-6  supra],  but  it  shows  that  the  flow  of 
Muhammadan  culture  was,  as  we  should  expect,  centrifugal, 
from  Baghdad  towards  the  periphery  of  the  Lands  of  Isldm. 

The  next  poet  mentioned  by  *  Awff,  Abu  Bakr  Muhammaa 
b.  *Ali  al-Khusrawl  as-Sarakhslt  was  attached  neither  to  the 
Samdnid  nor  to  the  Buwayhid  Court,  but  to  that  eminent 
prince  of  the  Ziydrid  dynasty  of  Tabaristan,  Amfr  Shamsu'l- 
Ma'ali  Qdbus  b.  Washmgfr  (A.D.  976-1012),  of  whose  own 
literary  achievements  we  shall  shortly  have  to  speak.  He  too 
was  a  bilingual  poet,  and  apparently  wandered  from  court  to 
court,  praising  now  his  proper  patron  Qabus,  now  the  Sdhib, 
and  again  the  grandson  of  Simjur,  Abu'l  Hasan  Muhammad. 
Another  poet  who  sang  the  praises  of  Qabus  was  Abu'l-^aslm 
Ziyad  b.  Muhammad  al-Qumri  of  Gurgan,  whose  few  surviving 
verses  shew  taste  and  ingenuity,  and  something  also  of  that 
artificiality  which  we  have  already  remarked  in  Mantiqf. 
Abu  Tahir  al-Khusrawani  was  another  Samanid  poet,  who 
has  some  bitter  verses  against  "  four  sorts  of  men  from  whom 
not  one  atom  of  good  accrued "  to  him,  viz.,  physicians, 
devotees,  astrologers,  and  charm-mongers.  Somewhat  better 
known  is  Abu  Shukur  of  Balkh,  who,  in  A.H.  336  (=  A.D.  947-8) 
completed  a  work  (now  lost)  called  the  Afarln-nama^  and  who 
is  also  the  author  of  the  following  lines  : — 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  467 

*  /  ventured  to  glance  from  afar  at  thy  face,  and  Behold  ! 
'Twos  sufficient  a  wound  to  inflict  on  thy  countenance  sweet; 
By  thy  glance  in  return  was  my  heart  smitten  sore,  for  of  old 
'Tis    the   Law    of  Atonement    that    'wounding  for   wounding   is 
meet.' " * 

This  verse  was  put  into  Arabic  by  the  bilingual  poet,  Abu'l- 
Fath  of  Bust,  while  another  Persian  verse  by  the  poet  Abu 
^Abdt'llah  Muhammad  b.  Salih  al-Walwalajl  was  similarly 
Arabicised  by  Abu'l-Qasim,  the  son  of  the  wazlr  Abu'l- 
4Abbas.  Abu  Muhammad  al-Bad?  of  Balkh  composed  verses 
in  praise  of  the  Chighanf  Amfr  Abu  Yahya  Tahir  b.  Fadl  of 
the  kind  known  as  mulamma1  or  "  patch-work,"  /.*.,  half 
Persian,  half  Arabic.  Abul-Mudhaffar  Nasr  al-Istighnd'i  of 
Nfshapiir  is  known  to  us  now  only  by  the  two  following 
couplets  : — 

"  Like  to  the  Moon  would  she  be,  were  it  not  for  her  raven  locks; 
Like  unto  Venus,  save  for  her  beauty-spot,  fragrant  as  musk : 
Her  cheeks  to  the  Sun  I  would  liken,  save  that,  unlike  the  Sun, 
She  needs  not  to  fear  an  eclipse,  she  needs  not  to  shrink  from  the 
dusk." 

Abu  lAbd?llah  Muhammad  al-Junaydl  was  another  of  the 
Sahib's  bilingual  poets.  Abu  Mamur  'Umdra  of  Merv  flourished 
under  the  last  king  of  the  House  of  Sdman  and  the  first  of  the 
House  of  Ghazna,  and  excelled  in  brief  and  picturesque  descrip- 
tions of  the  spring  season,  wine,  and  the  like.  His  is  the 
following  admonition  to  those  who  seek  worldly  success  : — 

"  Though  the  world  should  hold  thee  in  honour,  let  that  not  fill  thee 

with  pride: — 

Many  the  world  hath  honoured  and  soon  hath  cast  aside. 
For  the  world  is  a   venomous   serpent  :  its  seeker  a   charmer  of 

snakes  : 
And   one   day  on  the  serpent-charmer  the   serpent    its    vengeance 

takes." 

•  Qur'an,  v,  49. 


468          THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Seven  more  poets  whose  patrons  are  unknown  conclude 
'Awfi's  list  of  these  early  pre-Ghaznawi  singers,  of  whom  in 
all  thirty-one  are  noticed.  These  seven  are  :  fldql ;  Abul- 
Mathal  of  Bukhard  ;  Abul-Muayyad  of  Balkh  ;  his  namesake 
of  Bukhara,  also  called  Rawnaql ;  Ma'nawl  of  Bukhara; 
Khabbdzi  of  Nishdpur,  and  Siplhri  of  Transoxiana. 

Leaving  these  poets  by  profession,  we  turn  now  to  two  royal 
poets  of  this  period. 

The  first  of  these  was  the  Samdnid  King  Mansur  II  b. 
Nuh  (A.D.  997-9),  whom  'Awfi  calls  the  last  of  his  line, 
though  his  brother,  'Abdu'l-Malik  is  generally  reckoned  to 
have  succeeded  him.  "  Though  he  was  young,"  says  *Awff, 
"yet  the  dynasty  had  grown  old,  and  no  order  (sdmdn}  was  left 
in  the  affairs  of  the  House  of  Saman,  while  the  life  of  the 
Royal  House  had  sunk  to  a  mere  spark.  He  lived  at  the 
beginning  of  the  reign  of  Sultan  Mahmud  Yamlnud-Dawla. 
Many  times  did  he  fall  a  captive  into  the  hands  of  his  enemies, 
and  again  recovered  his  freedom  :  greatly  did  he  strive  to 
recover  his  father's  kingdom,  but  human  effort  avails  naught 

o  *  o 

against  the  Decree  of  Heaven  and  the  Fate  preordained  by 
God,  as  saith  God  Almighty,  "  None  can  avert  His  Decree  and 
none  can  postpone  His  command ;  God  doth  what  He  pleaseth  and 
ordereth  as  He  will"  Of  him  alone  amongst  the  Kings  of  the 
House  of  Saman  is  any  verse  recorded.  His  verses  are  both 
spontaneous  and  kingly.  Whilst  he  sat  on  the  throne  of 
sovereignty  in  Bukhdrd,  enemies  rose  up  against  him  on  all 
sides,  and  all  his  nobles  were  disaffected,  so  that  night  and  day 
he  was  on  horseback,  clad  in  a  Zandanljl x  coat,  while  most  of 
his  life  was  passed  in  flight  and  fight.  One  day  some  of  his 
companions  said  to  him,  "  O  King,  why  dost  thou  not  get 
thyself  fine  clothes,  or  amuse  thyself  with  those  distractions 
which  are  one  of  the  perquisites  of  royalty  ?  "  Thereupon  he 

1  Zandaniji  or  Zand-ptchi  (see  Vullers's  Lexicon,  vol.  iii,  p.  151)  is  a 
loose  white  garment  made  of  very  thick  and  strong  material,  probably  to 
afford  some  protection  against  sword-cuts 


DOWN   TO  A.D.   1000  469 

composed  this  fragment,  in  the  sentiments  of  which  the  signs 
of  manly  courage  are  apparent  and  evident : — 

"  They  ask  me  why  fine  robes  J  do  not  wear, 
Nor  covet  stately  lent  with  carpets  rare. 
'Midst  clash  of  arms,  what  boots  the  minstrel's  power  t 
'Midst  rush  of  steeds,  what  place  for  rose-girt  bower  f 
Nor  wine  nor  sweet-lipped  Sdqi  aught  avail 
Where  blood  is  spattered  o'er  the  coats  of  mail. 
Arms,  horse  for  me  banquet  and  bower  enow, 
Tulip  and  lily  mine  the  dart  and  bow." 

The     following    quatrain     reproaching     Heaven     for    its 
unkindness  is  also  ascribed  to  him  : — 

"  O  blue  to  look  on,  not  in  essence  blue, 
A  Fire  art  than,  though  like  a  Smoke  to  view. 
E'en  from  thy  birth  thine  ears  were  deaf  to  prayer, 
Nor  wrath  nor  protest  aught  avail  with  you." 

More  important  as  a  patron  of  letters,  if  not  as  a  poet,  was 
the  Ziyarid  prince  of  Tabaristan,  Qabiis  b.  Washmgfr, 
entitled  SliarnsiiI-Ma'all  ("the  Sun  of  the  Heights"  reigned 
A.D.  976-1012).  To  him  al-Binin{  dedicated  his  "Chrono- 
logy of  Ancient  Nations  "  (al-Atharul-bdqiya  mina  l-^uruni1 1~ 
khullya^  edited  and  translated  into  English  by  Dr.  Sachau),  in 
the  preface  of  which  work  he  thus  speaks  of  him  (Sachau's 
translation,  p.  2)  : — 

"  How  wonderfully  hath  He  whose  Name  is  to  be  exalted  and 
extolled  combined  with  the  glory  of  his  noble  extraction1  the 
graces  of  his  generous  character,  with  his  valiant  soul  all  laudable 
qualities,  such  as  piety  and  righteousness,  carefulness  in  defending 
and  observing  the  rites  of  religion,  justice  and  equity,  humility  and 
beneficence,  firmness  and  determination,  liberality  and  gentleness, 
the  talent  for  ruling  and  governing,  for  managing  and  deciding,  and 
other  qualities  which  no  fancy  could  comprehend  and  no  mortal 
enumerate  !" 

1  This  pedigree,  given  in  full  by  al-Biruni  (p.  47  of  Sachau's  trans- 
lation), traces  his  lineage  to  the  Sasanian  King  Qubadh,  the  father  of 
Anushirwan. 


470         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Ath-Thacdlibf,  in  the  tenth  and  last  chapter  of  the  third 
volume  of  his  Tatlma^  is  equally  enthusiastic  in  "  crowning  his 
book  with  some  of  the  shining  fruits  of  his  eloquence,  which 
is  the  least  of  his  many  virtues  and  characteristics."1  The 
great  Avicenna  (Abu  CAH  ibn  Sfna)  was  another  of  the 
eminent  men  of  learning  whom  Qabiis  protected  and  aided,  as 
is  fully  narrated  in  the  Chahar  Maqala,  or  "  Four  Discourses  " 
(pp.  121-4  of  my  translation),  by  Nidhaml  of  Samarqand, 
who  calls  Qabus  "  a  great  and  accomplished  man,  and  a  friend 
to  men  of  learning."  His  unhappy  and  violent  end  is  well 
known,2  and  ampler  details  of  his  life  are  to  be  found  in  Ibn 
Isfandiyar's  History  of  Tabaristan,  of  which  I  am  now  pre- 
paring an  abridged  translation.  He  composed  verses  both  in 
Arabic  and  Persian.  Amongst  the  former  is  the  following  : — 

"Say  to  him  who  fain  would  taunt  us  with  vicissitudes  of  Fate, 
'  Warreth  Fate  or  fightcth  Fortune  save  against  the  high  and  great  f 
Seest  thou  not  the  putrid  corpse  which  Ocean  to  its  surface  flings, 
While  within  its  deep  abysses  lie  the  pearls  desired  of  Kings  ?' 
Though  the  hands  of  Fate  attack  us,  though  her  buffets  us  disarm, 
Though  her  long-continued  malice  bring  upon  us  hurt  and  harm, 
In  the  sky  are  constellations  none  can  count,  yet  of  them  all 
On  the  Sun  and  Moon  alone  the  dark  Eclipse's  shadows  fall !" 

And  again  : — 

"My  love  is  enkindled  in  thinking  of  thee, 
And  passionate  thrills  through  my  being  do  dart: 
No  limb  of  my  body  but  speaks  of  thy  love, 
Each  limb,  thou  would' st  think,  was  created  a  heart!" 

Amongst  his  Persian  verses  'Awff  records  the  following : — 

1  Other  passages  of  this  encomium  will  be  found  on  pp.  507-8  of  the 
second  volume  of  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan. 

a  He  was  murdered,  with  his  son's  connivance,  in  the  Castle  of 
Janashk  in  Gurgan,  where  he  had  been  imprisoned.  See  my  edition  of 
Dawlatshdh,  pp.  48-9,  and  de  Slane's  translation  of  Ibn  Khallikan, 
vol.  ii,  p.  509. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  471 

"  The  things  of  this  world  from  end  to  end  are  the  goal  of  desire 

and  greed, 
And  I  set  before  this  heart  oj  mine  the  things  which  I  most  do 

need, 
But  a  score  of  things  I  have  chosen  out  of  the  world's  unnumbered 

throng, 
That   in   quest  of  these  1  my  soul   may  please   and   speed   my  life 

along. 
Verse,    and    song,    and    minstrelsy,    and   wine    full-flavoured    and 

sweet, 
Backgiiininon,  and   chess,  and  lite   hunting-ground,  and  the  falcon 

and  cheetah  fleet ; 

Field,  and  ball,  and  audience-hall,  and  battle,  and  banquet  rare, 
Horse,  and  arms,  and  a  generous  hand,  and  praise  of  my  Lord 

and  prayer." 

And  again  : — 

"Six    things  there  be  which  have  their  home  in  the  midst  of   thy 

raven  hair  ; 

Twist  and  tangle,  curl  and  knot,  ringlet  and  love-lock  fair ; 
Six  things  there  be,  as  you  may  see  which  in  my  heart  do  reign  ; 
Grief  and    desire    and    sorrow    dire :    longing   and   passion    and 

pain  t " 

The  following  quatrain  is  also  his  : — 

"  Mirth's  King  the  Rose  is,  Wine  Joy's  Herald  eke ; 
Hence  from  these  two  do  I  my  pleasure  seek  : 
Would'st  thou,  O  Moon,  inquire  the  cause  of  this  f 
Wine's  taste  thy  lips  recalls,  the  Rose  thy  cheek  I '' 

Amongst  other  royal  and  noble  poets  of  this  early  period 

'Awff  mentions  Sultan  Mahmud  of  Ghazna  (whose  Court  will 
be  described  at  the  beginning  of  the  next  volume), 

0tSobie°py^ird  and  his  son  Am{r  Abli  Muhammad  b.  Yamfnu'd- 
Dawla;  Abu'l-Mudhaffar  Tahir  b.  al-Fadl  b. 

Muhammad  Muhtaj  as-Saghan{  (i.e.,  of  Chaghan)  ;  Amir 
Kayka'us  the  Ziyarid,  son  of  the  talented  and  un- 
fortunate  Qabus  whom  we  have  j ust  been  discussing, 
a"d  others  who  need  not  detain  us,  since  we  have 
examined  a  sufficient  amount  of  the  poetry  of  this 

period  to  be  able  to  characterise  it  in  general  terms.     The 


472          THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

metrical   system    which   underlies  it  is,  as   we    have   already 

observed,  identical    with  that  of  the  Arabs ;    though  certain 

metres  (e.g-,  Kamil,  Baslt,  and  Tawll}  which  are 

Arabic  and  Per-  .       ,  .  ."  i   •       r»        • 

sian  metrical     common  m  Arabic  are  but  rarely  used  in  Persian, 

systems.  . 

while  some  new  metres  were  introduced  in  the 
latter  language  which  were  not  used  in  the  former.  Dr. 
Forbes  at  pp.  132-3  of  his  Persian  Grammar  (4th  ed. 
London,  1869),  cites  the  opinion  of  Herr  Geitlin,  a  German 
writer  on  the  Persian  language,  who  remarks  that  "  the 
Persians  and  Arabs,  like  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  rejoice  in  a 
great  variety  of  metres,  but  the  Asiatic  metres  differ  mainly  in 
this,  that  the  long  syllables  far  exceed  the  short,  which  is 
quite  in  conformity  with  the  character  of  the  Oriental 
people,  who  are  distinguished  by  a  certain  degree  of  gravity 
and  sobriety  in  their  conversation  and  gestures,  com- 
bined with  dignity  and  stateliness  in  all  their  movements  ; " 
and,  d  propos  of  this,  remarks,  in  speaking  of  the  five  purely 
Arabian  metres  comprised  in  the  "  First  Circle,"  that  in  them 
"  the  short  syllables  are  more  nearly  on  a  par  with  the  long  ; 
whereby  we  are  to  infer,  according  to  Herr  Geitlin's  theory, 
that  the  roving  Arabs  are  less  grave  and  sober  in  their  con- 
versation and  gestures  than  their  neighbours  of  Persia." 

As   regards   verse-forms,  it  is   the   qasiday  or   elegy,  alone 
which  occupies   a   prominent    place    in    both  languages,  and 

which  (chiefly,  as  it  would  appear,  from  the 
mVoTfeav°or™ed  influence  of  the  great  Arab  poet  al-Mutanabbi, 
bif,  early  umesf  A.D.  905-965)  attained  so  great  a  development 

in  Persia  under  the  Ghaznawi  and  succeeding 
dynasties,  as  will  appear  in  a  subsequent  chapter.  But  at  the 
period  of  which  we  are  now  speaking  such  long  and  elaborate 
monorhymes  appear  to  have  enjoyed  little  favour  in  Persia ; 
and  even  the  ghazal,  or  ode,  seems  to  have  been  less  popular 

in  these  early  days  than  the  qit'-a*  or  fragment. 

The  quatrain.  _T^     , 

and  the  ruba^i^  du-bayti^  or  quatrain.  1  his  last, 
indeed,  was  almost  certainly  the  earliest  product  of  the 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  473 

Persian  poetical  genius.  Allusion  has  already  been  made  to 
one  of  the  stock  anecdotes  given  by  the  biographers  as  to  the 
first  occasion  on  which  Persian  verse  was  composed  in 
Muhammadan  times ;  the  anecdote,  namely,  which  ascribes 
a  single  misrd1  to  the  chance  utterance  of  a  gleeful  child.  In 
Dawlatshah's  Memoirs  (pp.  30-31  of  my  edition)  this  child  is 
said  to  have  been  the  son  of  Amfr  Ya'qub  b.  Layth  the 
SaffaYid  ;  but  lately  I  have  come  across  a  much  older  version 
of  the  story  in  the  British  Museum  manuscript  Or.  2814  of  a 
very  rare  work  on  Persian  Prosody  and  Rhetoric  entitled 
al-Mifjam  ft  ma'dblri  a^arfl-^Ajam^  composed  about  A.H. 
617  (=A.D.  1220—1221)  by  Shams-i-Qays.  In  this  version 
(ff.  49b~5ob  of  the  above-mentioned  manuscript)  the  verse 
(" ghalatdn  ghalatdn  haml  rawad  td  bun-i-kii"}  and  the 
anecdote  are  nearly  the  same,  but  the  child  is  unnamed  and 
not  represented  as  of  royal  patronage,  while  it  is  not  the  Amir 
Ya'qub  but  the  poet  RudagI  "or  some  other  of  the  ancient 
poets  of  Persia"  who  is  the  auditor  and  admirer.  He, 
according  to  the  author,  after  an  examination  of  the  hemistich 
in  question,  "evolved  out  of  the  akhrab  and  akhram  varieties  of 
the  hazaj  metre  a  measure  which  they  call  the  *  Quatrain 
measure,'1  and  which  is  indeed  a  graceful  measure  and  a 
pleasant  and  agreeable  form  of  verse ;  in  consequence  of 
which  most  persons  of  taste  and  most  cultivated  natures  have 
a  strong  inclination  and  leaning  towards  it."  The  quatrain, 
then,  may  safely  be  regarded  as  the  most  ancient  essentially 
Persian  verse-form,  while  next  to  this  comes  the 

TheMathnawf.  '.  „       ,.    ,     • 

mathnawly  or  poem  in  "doublets,  which  is  gene- 
rally narrative,  and  where  the  rhyme  changes  in  each  couplet. 
The  portion  of  the  Shdhndma  composed  by  Daqfqf  is  probably 
the  oldest  Persian  mathnawi  poem  of  which  any  considerable 
portion  has  been  preserved  to  us,  though  fragments  of  Rudagf's 

1  See  Blochmann's  Prosody  of  the  Persians,  p.  68,  where  the  twenty- 
four  rubd'i  metres,  of  which  half  are  derived  from  each  of  these  two 
varieties  of  the  hazaj  metre,  are  given  in  full. 


474         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Kalila  and  Dlmna  and  other  old  mathnawts  have  been  discovered 
by  Dr.  Paul  Horn  of  Strassburg  amongst  the  citations  adduced 
by  AsadI  in  his  lexicon  in  proof  of  the  meanings  of  rare  and 
archaic  words. 

Coming  now  to  the  monorhymes,  that  is  the  qasida,  its 
"fragment"  (y //'#),  and  the  ghazal,  we  notice  a  far  greater 
simplicity  in  this  than  in  the  next  period.  The  qasldas  of 
'Unsurf,  FarrukM,  Asadf,  Manuchihrf,  and  other  Ghaznawi 
poets  are  often  nearly  as  artificial,  and  nearly  as  full  of  far- 
fetched conceits,  as  those  of  the  Seljuq  and  other  later  periods  ; 
but  the  earlier  fragments  which  we  have  just  been  examining 
are,  as  a  rule,  simple,  natural,  spontaneous  and  often  original. 
The  same  applies  to  the  ghazaly  so  far  as  this  had  yet  come 
into  existence,  though  here  the  contrast  is  less  marked, 
because  the  ghazal  never  assumed  so  purely  artificial  and 
rhetorical  a  form  as  did  the  qasida. 


Although  we  have  not  space  to  consider  at  any  great  length 

the  Arabic  poetry  produced  in  Persia  at  this  transition  period, 

something  must  needs  be  said  as  to   its  general 

AP™c!ducPed1[7     characteristics  and  peculiarities.     We  have  already 

Perperi£d.thls     s^11  tnat>  as  regards  language  and  idiom,  it  closely 

approached,  if  it  did  not  actually  reach,  the  level  of 

the  poetry  produced  in  those  countries  where  Arabic  was  the 

spoken  language,  but  notwithstanding  this  it  presents  several 

peculiarities,  some  of  which  will  now  be  enumerated.     These 

peculiarities  are  naturally  more  conspicuous  in  the  remoter  and 

more  purely  Persian  Courts  of  the  Samanid  and  other  Eastern 

dynasties  than  in  the  environment  of  the  Buwayhid  Princes 

and  Amfrs  (notably  the  Sahib  Isma'fl  b.  'Abbad),  who  were  in 

closer  touch   with  the   metropolis  of  Baghdad,  and  we  shall 

therefore  confine  ourselves  almost  entirely  to  a  consideration 

of  the  form,  as  depicted  in  the  fourth  and  last  volume  of  ath- 

Tha'alibi's  Tatlma. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  475 

In  the  first  place,  then,  we  often  find  presupposed  a  know- 
Knowledge  of  kdge  °f tne  Persian  language  which  a  non-Persian 
*3££S5f  could  not  be  expected  to  possess.  Thus  Abu 
v^pr^uced  'AH  as-Sajf  praises  the  city  of  Merv  in  the 

in  Persia.       foiiowjng  iines  (ratlmay  \\\  16)  :— 

"Earth  which  in  fragrance  ambergris  excels, 
A  country  fair,  where  cool,  sweet  waters  flow : 
And  when  the  traveller  seeks  its  bounds  to  quit 
Its  very  name  commands  him  not  to  go  I " 

The  last  line  alludes  to  the  fact  that  the  letters  M.  R.  W. 
which  spells  the  name  of  the  town  in  question  can  also  be 
read  as  ma-raw,  which  in  Persian  signifies  "  do  not  go  !  "  To 
an  Arab,  of  course,  unless  he  knew  Persian,  the  point  of  the 
verse  would  be  entirely  lost.1  Similar  verses,  of  which  the 
point  lies  in  a  "  popular  etymology,"  were  composed  about 
other  towns,  like  Bukhara  (Tatlma  iii,  8,  9),  but  in  the 
epigram  on  Bukhara  the  sense  is  uncomplimentary,  and  the 
etymology  Arabic,  not  Persian. 

Secondly,  we  meet  with  numerous  verses  composed  on  the 
occasion  of  one  of  the  great  Persian  festivals,  Nawniz  and 

Mihragan  (which  correspond  respectively  with 
Persianl°festivais  the  Spring  and  Autumn  equinoxes),  whereof  the 

last  is  also  called  the  "  Day  of  Ram " ;  the 
twenty-first  day  of  every  Persian  month,  but  most  particularly 
the  2  ist  day  of  the  month  of  Mihr  (/.*.,  Mihragan)  being  so 
named.2  Concerning  this  Rdm-ruz  we  find  in  the  Tatlma 
(iii,  10)  two  pairs  of  verses,  each  containing  a  Persian  expres- 
sion which  (whether  because  the  text  is  corrupt  or  the  words 
obsolete)  is,  unfortunately,  unintelligible  to  me.  j,  Numerous 
similar  introductions  of  Persian  words  and  sentences  into  the 

1  Another  similar  word-play  on  dih-khudhd  (the  Persian  word  for  a 
landowner  or  squire)  will  be  found  in  a  verse  by  Abu'  1-Qasim  al-'Alawi 
al-Utrush  cited  at  the  top  of  p.  280  of  vol.  iii  of  the  Yatinia. 

*  See  Sachau's  translation  of  al-Binini's  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations, 
p.  209. 


476         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

Arabic  verses   produced   in    Persia   at    this   period    might  no 

doubt  be  found   by  a  more  careful   examination  of  the  still 

somewhat  inaccessible  sources  of  information  on  this  subject. 

Thirdly,  we  find  occasional  use  made  by  Persian  poets  who 

wrote  in  Arabic  of  verse-forms  essentially  Persian,  notably  the 

mathnawl  and  the  ghazal.    A  good  instance  of  the 

Employment  of     .  /       11    j    •        A       u-  /        ••   \  •  ir          j 

Persian  verse-    former  ( called  m  Arabic  muzdaivija)  is  to  be  found 

forms,  such  as  . . .  . '  . 

MoOMirfaad  at  p.  23  or  vol.  in  of  the  Tatimay  in  the  notice  of 
Abu'1-Fadl  as-Sukkari  (?)  al-Marwazi,  who,  we 
are  told,  "  was  very  fond  of  translating  Persian  proverbs  into 
Arabic.  These  proverbs  are  here  strung  together  into  a 
genuine  mathnawl  poem,  such  as  I  do  not  remember  to  have 
seen  elsewhere  in  Arabic,  and  the  original  of  many  of  the 
paraphrases  can  be  easily  recognised,  e.g.,  "  Al-laylu  hub  Id ;  laysa 
yudrd  md  yalid"  ("The  night  is  pregnant:  it  is  not  known 
what  it  will  bring  forth)  =  "  Shab  dbistan-ast :  fardd  chi 
zayad?"  And  again: — 

I  aha  'l-md'u  fawqa  ghariqin  tamd 
Fa-qdbu  qandiin  wa  alf""  siva. 

("When  the  water  surges  over  the  drowning  man,  then  a 
fathom  [lit.  the  cast  of  a  javelin]  and  a  thousand  are  alike") 
=  "  Chu  db  az  sar  dar  guzasht,  chi  yak  nlza,  chi  sad  niza" 
As  instances  of  Arabic  ghazah  or  pseudo-ghazals,  it  is  suffi- 
cient to  refer  to  two  short  poems  occupying  the  upper  part  of 
p.  23  of  the  third  volume  of  the  Yat'ima,  of  which  the  second 
especially  is  quite  in  the  Persian  style  as  regards  sentiments  ;  and 
another  on  p.  113  of  the  same  volume.  Of  the  existence  of 
true  quatrains  composed  in  Arabic  I  am  less  certain  ;  but 
two  pieces  of  verse  by  Abu'  l-4Ala  as-Sarwi,  describing  the 
narcissus  and  the  apple  respectively  (Tathnay  vol.  iii,  p.  281), 
at  least  closely  resemble  this  essentially  Persian  form  of  com- 
position, and  more  particularly  accord  with  a  fashion  prevalent 
amongst  the  Persian  poets  of  this  period  of  describing  in  a 
quatrain  or  short  "fragment  "  some  particular  fruit,  flower,  or 
Other  natural  object. 


DOWN  TO  A.D.    1000  477 

This  large  and  interesting  question  as  to  the  characteristics 
of  the  Arabic  verse  produced  in  Persia  cannot  be  further  dis- 
cussed here,  but  it  well  merits  a  systematic  examination  by 
some  scholar  who  has  a  thoroughly  competent  knowledge,  not 
only  of  both  languages,  but  of  both  literatures.  Unfortunately 
it  is  but  very  rarely  that  a  scholar  arises  whose  chief  interest  is 
in  Persian  literature,  and  who  yet  has  a  complete  mastery  of 
the  Arabic  language.  The  Arabist,  as  a  rule,  slights  this 
branch  of  Arabic  literature  as  exotic,  even  when  he  does  not 
condemn  it  as  post-classical  ;  while  the  student  of  Persian 
seldom  realises  till  too  late  that  for  literary  and  historical 
purposes  the  point  of  view  of  the  comparative  philologist  is 
entirely  misleading,  and  that  he  need  not  so  much  to  concern 
himself  with  Sanskrit  and  other  Aryan  languages  as  with 
Arabic. 

Of  the  Persian  prose  literature  of  this  period,  which  must 
have  been  of  some  extent,  few  specimens,  unfortunately, 

remain  to  us  ;  while  even  of  what  has  been  pre- 
^iteraturT*  served  the  greater  part  is  translated  from  the 

Arabic.  Four  works  of  importance,  one  historical, 
one  medical,  and  two  exegetical,  all  composed  probably  during 
the  reign  of  the  Sdmdnid  King  Mansiir  I  b.  Nuh  (A.D.  961- 
976),  have  come  down  to  us.  Two  of  them  are  abridged 
translations  of  the  great  history  and  the  great  commentary  of 
TabaH ;  the  third  is  the  Pharmacology  of  Abu  Mansiir 
Muwaffaq  of  HerAt ;  the  last  is  the  now  celebrated  old  Persian 
commentary  on  the  Qur'dn,  of  which  the  second  volume  is 
preserved  in  a  unique  and  ancient  MS.  in  the  Cambridge 
University  Library.  All  these  are  written  in  a  simple,  straight- 
forward and  archaic  language,  of  which  I  have  discussed  the 
peculiarities  at  some  length  in  the  article  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1894  (pp.  417-524)  where  I  first  made 
known  the  existence  of  the  Cambridge  Codex  of  the  old 
Persian  Commentary,  which  bears  a  date  equivalent  to  Feb- 


478         THE  LITERATURE   OF  PERSIA 

ruary  12,  A.D.  1231.     The  Pharmacology  (Kitabul-Abnlya  *-an 
Ifaqaiqi'l-Adwiya}  is  preserved  in  the  unique  Vienna  Codex,  a 

still  more  ancient  MS.  (in  fact  the  oldest  extant 
extant  Persian    Persian  MS.)  dated  Shawwal,  A,H.  447  (=  January, 

A.D.  1056),  which  derives  a  special  interest  from 
the  fact  that  it  was  transcribed  by  the  poet  'All  b.  Ahmad  of 
Tus,  better  known  by  his  pen-name  Asadf,  the  nephew  of  the 
great  Firdawsf.  This  work  has  been  beautifully  printed  in  its 
entirety,  with  a  preface,  notes,  and  facsimiles  of  three  leaves, 
by  Dr.  Seligmann  (Vienna,  1859),  while  a  German  translation 
of  it  has  been  published  with  notes  by  Abdul-Chalig  Achundow 
(i.e.,  'Abdu  '1-Khaliq,  son  of  the  Akhund  or  schoolmaster)  of 
Baku.  Bal'amf's  Persian  translation  of  Tabad's  history  exists 
in  many  fine  old  MSS.,  of  which  several  are  enumerated  in  the 
preface  (pp.  v-vii)  to  the  first  volume  of  M.  Hermann  Zoten- 
berg's  Chronique  de  Abou-Djafar  Mohammed  ben  Djarir  ben 
Tezid  Tabarij  traduite  sur  la  version  per  sane  d'Abou  1AH 
Mohammed  BePami  ffaprh  les  manuscrits  de  Paris^  de  Gotha,  de 
Londres  et  de  Canterbury  (Paris,  4  vols.,  1867-1874).  Of  the 
Persian  translation  of  Tabad's  Commentary,  made  about  the 
same  time  as  Bal'amf's  translation  of  the  same  great  scholar's 
History,  there  is  a  manuscript  (ADD.  7601)  dated  A.H.  883 
(A.D.  1478)  in  the  British  Museum. 

There  exists  a  rare  Persian  work  known  as  the  Marzuban- 
ndma,   of  which    extracts  have    been    published    by  the    late 

M.  Charles  Schefer  in  his  Chrestomathie  Persane 
ThenaamauWn"  (Paris,  1885;  vol.  ii,  pp.  1 94-2 1 1  of  the  Notes, 

and  pp.  172-199  of  the  texts).  This  is  a  trans- 
lation made  by  Sa'd  of  Warawfn  towards  the  end  of  the  twelfth 
century  of  our  era  from  an  original  composed  in  the  Mdzan- 
daranf  dialect  by  the  Ispahbad  Marzuban  somewhere  about 
A.H.  400  (=  A.D.  1009-1010).  To  the  same  writer  is 
ascribed  a  poem  entitled  Nlkl-narna  ;  and  it  is  interesting  to 
note  the  considerable  use  made  in  literature  (of  which  there  is 
a  good  deal  of  scattered  evidence)  of  this  and  other  cognate 
dialects,  and  to  compare  the  similar  state  of  things  which  pre- 


DOWN  TO  A.D.   1000  479 

vailed  in  England  after  the  Norman  Conquest  before  victory 
was  assured  to  the  Mercian  dialect,  and  while  the  other  dialects 
were  still  contending  for  the  position  of  literary  idioms. 

There  is  another  branch  of  Persian  literature  (that  of  the 
Persian  Jews,  written   in   the   Persian  language    but    in    the 

Hebrew  character)   of  which  one   (and  that  the 
'"mer-uure*11    most  interesting)  monument  may  possibly  go  back 

to  the  ninth  or  tenth  century  of  our  era,  though 
Darmesteter  and  other  authorities  place  it  in  the  Mongol  period 
(thirteenth  century  of  our  era),  while  Munlc  puts  it  a  century 
earlier.  To  this  literature  (represented  by  a  considerable 
number  of  MSS.,  of  which  some  twenty  are  in  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale  at  Paris)  attention  was  first  called  by  Munlc 
in  the  'Bible  de  Cahn  (ix,  pp.  134-159),  and  it  has  since  been 
discussed  pretty  fully  by  Zotenberg  (Merx's  Archiv^  vol.  i,'Halle, 
1870,  pp.  385-427),  who  there  published  and  translated  the 
Apocrypha  of  Daniel,  concerning  which  we  are  about  to  speak  ; 
Paul  de  Lagarde  (Persische  Studien,  Gflttingen,  1884)  ;  Dar- 
mesteter (Revue  Critique  for  June,  1882  :  new  series,  vol.  xiii, 
pp.  450-454  ;  and  Melanges  Renter^  Paris,  1887,  pp.  405-420)  ; 
Salemann,  and  other  scholars.  Most  of  this  Judaeo-Persian 
literature  is,  except  from  the  philological  point  of  view,  of  little 
value,  consisting  merely  of  vocabularies  of  Hebrew  words 
explained  in  Persian,  translations  of  the  Pentateuch  and  other 

Hebrew  books,  and  some  poems ;  but  the  Apo- 
™ofAiSpha  cryPha  of  Daniel  (No.  128  of  the  Hebrew  and 

Samaritan  MSS.  of  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale), 
which,  if  not  itself  original,  yet  represents  a  lost  Chaldaean 
original,  is  of  an  altogether  different  order.  This  Apocrypha 
is  divided  by  Darmesteter  into  three  parts,  viz.  :  (i)  A  series  of 
legends  relating  to  Daniel,  some  biblical,  some  rabbinical ;  (2) 
a  pseudo-prophetic  sketch  of  historical  events,  in  which  the 
first  definitely  recognisable  figure  is  the  Prophet  Muhammad 
and  the  last  the  Caliph  al-Ma'mun  (t  A.D.  833)  ;  (3)  one  of 
those  fanciful  descriptions  of  Messianic  times  which  are  so 
frequent  in  Jewish  works. 


480         THE  LITERATURE  OF  PERSIA 

To  those  who  believed  in  the  prophetic  inspiration  of  this 
document  the  last  portion  was  no  doubt  the  most  interesting,  but 
to  such  as  judge  by  the  ordinary  standards  of  criticism  it  is  the 
second — containing  what  Darmesteter  happily  terms,  "  1'his- 
toire  proph£tisde  " — which  most  appeals.  The  Apocrypha  pur- 
ports to  contain  the  vision  of  things  to  come  until  the  advent 
of  the  Messiah  shown  by  God  to  the  Prophet  Daniel,  and  this 
vision  or  Apocalypse  is  introduced  by  the  words,  "  O  Daniel,  I 
show  thee  how  many  kings  there  shall  be  in  each  nation  and 
religion  ;  I  will  inform  thee  how  it  shall  be."  Then  follow 
several  rather  vague  references,  doubtfully  interpreted  by 
Darmesteter  as  applying  to  Ahasuerus,  the  Seleucidas,  and  the 
Sasanians  ;  then  a  prophetic  description  of  an  ungodly  king 
who  shall  call  himself  «  Bihishtl "  ("  Celestial  "),  and  by  whom, 
as  Darmesteter  thinks,  Nushirwdn  (=  Anushak-r&ban  =  "  of 
Immortal  Soul  ")  is  intended  ;  and  then  is  described  "  a  short, 
red-complexioned  king,  who  regards  not  God's  Word,  and 
claims  to  be  a  prophet,  having  been  a  camel  driver  ;  and  who 
shall  come  forth  from  the  south  riding  on  a  camel,  greatly 
persecute  the  Jews,  and  die  after  a  reign  of  eleven  years.  This 
personage  is  evidently  intended  for  Muhammad,  and  from  this, 
point  onwards  until  the  death  of  al-Ma'mvin  (i.e.,  from  A.H. 
i  to2i8  =  A.D.  622-833)  the  succession  of  Muhammadan  rulers 
can  be  quite  clearly  traced.  At  this  point,  as  Darmesteter 
admits,  the  chronological  sequence  of  events  ceases ;  but  in  the 
succeeding  paragraphs  he  thinks  that  allusion  is  made  to  the 
Crusades,  and  in  particular  to  Godefroy  de  Bouillon  and  his 
Red  Cross  Knights ;  and  that  is  why  he  places  the  composition 
of  the  Pseudo-Apocalypse  not  in  the  tenth  but  in  the  thirteenth 
century  of  our  era.  Personally,  I  am  disposed  to  regard  these 
supposed  references  to  the  Crusades  and  the  red-garbed  warriors 
who  shall  come  from  Rum  even  to  Damascus  as  too  indefinite 
to  preclude  the  possibility  that  they  have  no  connection  with 
real  history,  in  which  case  this  curious  Apocrypha  may  well 
belong  to  the  period  we  have  been  considering,  if  not  to  that 
previous  period  which  we  have  called  "  the  Golden  Age." 


A  SHORT  BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  THE  PRINCIPAL 
WORKS  BY  EUROPEAN  SCHOLARS  WHICH 
DEAL  WITH  THE  VARIOUS  MATTERS  TREATED 
OF  IN  THIS  VOLUME 

Only  such  Oriental  works  as  have  been  translated  into  some  European 
language  are,  as  a  rule,  mentioned  in  this  place;  but  the  names  of  all 
those  mentioned  in  the  text  are  entered  in  the  Index  in  italics,  those 
actually  cited  being  further  marked  by  an  asterisk.  Many  of  them  exist 
only  in  manuscript ;  and  the  extent  to  which  these  manuscripts  can  be 
consulted  depends  on  the  rules  governing  the  various  Libraries  where 
they  are  preserved.  Nearly  all  the  great  Continental  Libraries  are 
extremely  generous  in  this  matter,  and  freely  lend  their  treasures  to 
other  Libraries,  or  even  to  individual  scholars.  Of  English  public 
Libraries,  those  of  the  India  Office  and  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  are 
the  most  liberal ;  next  comes  the  University  Library  of  Cambridge,  then 
the  Bodleian.  The  British  Museum  absolutely  refuses,  to  the  great 
detriment  of  scholarship,  to  lend  manuscripts  under  any  conditions 
whatever;  and  one  or  two  English  libraries  possessing  valuable  col- 
lections of  Oriental  manuscripts  even  put  difficulties  in  the  way  of 
scholars  who  wish  to  consult  the  manuscripts  on  the  spot.  Of  private 
collectors  it  would  be  unjust  not  to  mention  especially  the  extraordinary 
liberality  of  Lord  Crawford,  to  whom  the  author  of  this  book  is  under 
great  obligations.  Most  unfortunately  his  fine  collection  of  Oriental 
manuscripts  has  now  passed  into  other  and  less  generous  hands.  The 
books  enumerated  below  are  arranged  according  to  subjects  and  periods, 
and  only  a  selection  of  those  deemed  most  important  are  mentioned, 
those  adjudged  most  valuable  being  marked  with  an  asterisk.*  The  terms 
"  Ancient "  and  "  Modern  "  signify  pre-Muhammadan  andpost-Muham- 
madan  respectively.  As  a  further  guide  I  would  also  refer  the  reader 
to  two  excellent  bibliographies,  the  first  chiefly  of  works  of  Geography 
and  Travel,  given  by  Lord  Curzon  in  vol.  i  of  his  great  book  on 
"Persia"  (pp.  16-18)  ;  the  second  of  works  on  Literature,  History,  and 
Philology  in  Salemann  and  Zhukovskfs  " Persische  Grammatik" 
\(Pp.  105-118).  Very  complete  bibliographies  of  the  subjects  dealt  with 

32  «* 


482  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

in  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  "  Grundriss  det  Iranischen  Philologie  "  will  also 
be  found  prefixed  to  the  various  sections  into  which  that  great  work  is 
divided.  A  very  useful  list  of  works  connected  with  Zoroastrianism  is 
also  prefixed  to  Professor  A.  V.  Williams  Jackson's  excellent  monograph 
on  Zoroaster  (New  York,  1899). 

A.     GENERAL   HISTORY  AND   PHILOLOGY. 

*i.  Grundriss  der  Iranischen  Philologie,  unter  Mitwirkung  von  Chr. 
Bartholomew,  C.  H.  Ethe,  K.  F.  Geldner,  P.  Horn,  H.  Hiibschmann, 
A.  V.  W.  Jackson,  F.  Justi,  Th.  Noldeke,  C.  Salemann,  A.  Socin,  F.  H. 
Weissbach,  und  E,  W.  West,  herausgegeben  von  Wilhelm  Geiger  und 
Ernst  Kuhn  (Strasburg,  1895  — ).  This  invaluable  work — a  veritable 
Encyclopasdia  of  Persian  philology — comprises  three  volumes ;  of 
which  the  first  treats  of  the  early  history  of  the  Iranian  languages, 
especially  the  language  of  the  Avesta,  Old  Persian,  and  Middle 
Persian  or  Pahlawi ;  the  second  of  the  literatures  of  those  languages 
and  of  Modern  Persian,  with  a  special  section  on  the  National  Epic 
by  Professor  Noldeke ;  and  the  third  of  the  Geography,  Ethno- 
graphy, History  (down  to  modern  times),  Religion,  Coins,  and 
Scripts  of  Iran. 

*2.  Iranisches  Namenbuch,  von  Ferdinand  Justi  (Marburg,  1895). 
An  invaluable  "  Dictionary  of  National  Biography,"  so  far  as 
Persians  bearing  Iranian  (as  opposed  to  Arabic  Muhammadan) 
names  are  concerned. 

3.  Dictionnaire  geographique,  historique  et  litteraire  de  la  Perse  et 
des  Contrees  adjacentes,  extrait  du  Mo'djem  el-Bouldan  de  Yaqout  .  .  . 
par  C.  Barbier  de  Meynard  (Paris,  1861). 

*4.  Chronique  de  .  .  .  .  Tabari,  traduite  sur  la  version  persane  de 
.  .  .  Bel'ami  .  .  .,  par  M.  Hermann  Zotenberg,  4  vols.,  Paris, 
1867-74.  This  book  will  give  the  European  reader  the  best  idea 
of  Universal  History,  including  the  History  of  Persia,  as  understood 
by  the  early  Muhammadan  historians. 

5.  Sir  John   Malcolm's   History  of  Persia   from  the  Most  Early 
Period  to  the  Present  Time  ...  (2  vols.,  London,  1815). ' 

6.  Clement  Markham's  General  Sketch   of  the  History  of  Persia 
(i  vol.,  London,  1874).* 

1  Both  these  books  confuse  Legend  with  History  in  their  accounts  of  the  earlier 
period,  and  are  more  or  less  obsolete. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  483 

*7.  Darmesteter's  Eludes  Iraniennes  (2  vols.,  Paris,  1883).  The 
first  volume  contains  Etudes  sur  la  Grammaire  htstorique  de  la 
Langue  pcrsane ;  the  second,  Etudes  sur  la  Langite,  la  Littcrature,  les 
Croyances  de  la  Perse  ancienne. 

8.  Dr.  C.   E.  Sachau's    English    translation    of    al-Bi'runfs    al- 
Athdru'l-bdqiya,  or  Chronology  of  Ancient  Nations  (London,   1879), 
a  work  of  great  value  and  interest,  containing  an  immense  amount 
of  varied  information. 

9.  The  Muriiju'dh-Dhahab  of  -Mas'udi,  text  and  French  translation 
in  nine  vols.  (Paris,  1861-1877),  entitled  Mafoudi:  Les  Prairies  d'Or, 
texte  et  Induction  par  C.  Barbier  de  Meynard  et  Pavel  de  Courteille. 

B.    ANCIENT   HISTORY. 

*io.  Erdnische  Alterthumskunde,  von  Fr.  Spiegel  (3  vols.,  Leipzig, 
1871-1878).  This  excellent  work  treats  of  the  History,  Religions, 
and  Antiquities  of  Persia  from  the  earliest  times  down  to  the  fall  of 
the  Sasanian  Dynasty. 

11.  Geschichte  des  alien  Persiens,  von  Dr.  Ferdinand  Justi  (Berlin, 
1879).     This  covers  the  same  period  as  the  work  last  mentioned,  but 
is  smaller  and  more  popular,  and  contains  numerous  illustrations 
and  a  map. 

12.  Aufsiitze  zur  persischen  Gcschichle,  von   Th.  Noldekc  (Leipzig, 
1887).     This  is  essentially  an  enlarged  and  revised  German  version 
of  the  article  on  the  Ancient  History  of  Persia  (till  the  end  of  the 
Sasanian   period)  contributed  by  this  great  scholar   to  the   ninth 
edition  of  the  Encyclopedia  Britanntca. 

13.  Le  Peuple  et  la  Langue  des  Medes,  pat  Jules  Oppert  (Paris, 
1879). 

14.  G.  Rawlinson's  Five  Great  Monarchies  of  the  Ancient  Eastern 
World,  or  the  History,  Geography,  and  Antiquities  of  Chaldcea,  Assyria, 
Babylon,  Media,  and  Persia.     The  first  edition  (London,  1862)  com- 
prises four,  the   second  (1871)  three   volumes,  and   the  two  last 
volumes  in  both  cases  deal  with  Media  and  [Achaemenian]  Persia. 

15.  G.  Rawlinson's  Sixth  Great  Oriental  Monarchy,  or  the  Geography, 
History,  and  Antiquities  of  Parthia  (London,  1873). 


I 


484  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

16.  G.    Ravvlinson's    Seventh    Great    Oriental   Monarchy,  ot    the 
Geography,  &c.,oftheSdsdnianorNew  Persian  Empire  (London,  1876). 

17.  G.  Rawlinson's  Parthia,  in  the  Story  of  the  Nations  Series 
(London,  1893). 

*i8.  Professor  Th.  Noldeke's  Geschichte  der  Perser  und  Araber  utt 
Zeit  der  Sasaniden,  aus  der  arabischen  Chronik  des  Tabari  ubersetzf, 
und  mil  ausfiihrlichen  Erldutentngen  und  Ergamungen  versehn 
(Leyden,  1879).  This  is  by  far  the  best  work  on  the  Sasanian 
Period. 

19.  Professor  Thomas  Hyde's   Veierum  Persarum  et  Parthorum 
et  Medorum  Religionis  Historia    (first  ed.,  Oxford,  1700 ;    second 
edition,  1760).     Though  obsolete,  this  work  is  still  interesting  and 
suggestive. 

20.  W.  Geiger's  Osliramsche  Kultur  tm  Altertum  (1882) ;  English 
translation   of    the    same    by    Darab    Dastur    Peshotan   Sanjana : 
Civilisation  of  the  Eastern  Iranians  in  Ancient  Times  (London,  1885). 

C.    ANCIENT   PHILOLOGY, 
(a)  OLD  PERSIAN. 

21.  F.  Stolze's  Persepolis  (Berlin,  1882),  with  an  Introduction  by 
Noldeke,  and  many  beautiful  photographs  of  the  ruins  and  inscrip- 
tions. 

22.  M.  Dieulafoy  :  L'Art  antique  de  la  Perse  (Paris,  1884). 

*23.  Fr.  Spiegel :  Die  Allpersischen  Keilinscriflen  im  Grundlexle, 
mil  Ucbersetzung,  Grammatik  und  Glossar  (Leipzig,  1862  :  second 
and  enlarged  edition,  1881). 

*24.  Dr.  C.  Kossowicz  :  Inscriptions  Palceo-Persicce  Achcemem- 
darum  (St.  Petersburg,  1872).  The  Inscriptions  are  here  printed  in 
the  appropriate  Cuneiform  type. 

(6)  AVESTA. 

25.  Eugene  Burnouf  :  Vendidad  Sade,  Fun  des  hvres  de  Zoroastre, 
lithographil  d'apres  le  Manuscrit  Zend  de  la  Bibliotheque  Royalc  ,  .  . 
(Paris,  1829-1843). 

26.  H.  Brockhaus  :  Vendidad  sade,  die  heihgen  Schnften  Zoroaster's 
Yacna,  Vispered  und  Vendidad,  nach  den  lilhographirten  Ausgaben  von 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  485 

Paris  und  Bombay,  mil  Index  und  Glossar  herausgegeben  (Leipzig, 
1850). 

27.  N.   L.  Westergaard  :   Zendavesta  .  .  .  vol.   i,  the  Zend  texts 
(Copenhagen,  1852-54). 

28.  Fr.  Spiegel :    Avesfa  .  .  .  im    Grundtexte    sammt    der   Huz- 
vBresch-Uebersetzung  (2  vols.,  Vienna,  1853-58). 

29.  K.  F.  Geldner :  Avesta  ...  (3  parts,  Stuttgart,  1886-95). 

30.  Mills  and  Darmesteter's   English   translation    of    the    Zend 
Avesta  in  vols.  iv,  xxiii,  and  xxxi  of  Professor  Max  Miiller's  Sacred 
Books  of  the  East  (Oxford,  1877,  1880,  1883,  and  second  ed.  of  vol.  iv 
in  1895). 

*3i.  Darmesteter:  Le  Zend  Avesta:  tradudion  nouvelle  avec  com- 
mentaire  historique  el  philologique  (3  vols.,  Paris,  1892-93  :  vols.  xxi, 
xxii,  and  xxiv  of  the  Annales  du  Musee  Guimef). 

32.  C.  de  Harlez  :  Avesta  .  .  .  traduit   du  Texte  tend   (3    vols., 
Liege,  1875-1877 ;  second  edition,  Paris,  1881). 

33.  Fr.  Spiegel:  Avesta  .  .  .  uebersclzt  (3  vols.,  Leipzig,  1852-63). 
There  is  an  English  translation  of  this  by  A.  Bleeck  (Hertford,  1864). 

34.  L.  H.  Mills  :  A  Study  oj  the  Five  Zoroastrian  Gdthds  (Erlangen, 
1894). 

35.  Ferdinand  Justi :  Handbitch  der  Zendsprache  (Leipzig,  1864). 
^36.  C.  de  Harlez  :  Manuel  de  la  Langtte  de  I' Avesta  (Paris,  1882). 

37.  A.  V.  W.  Jackson  :  An  Avesta  Grammar  .  .  .  (Stuttgart,  1892) ; 
Idem,  An  Avesta  Reader  (1893). 

38.  Fr.  Spiegel :  Grammatik  der  altbaktrischen  Sprache  (Leipzig, 
1867), 


(c)  PAHLAWI  AND  ITS  CONNECTION  WITH  MODERN  PERSIA. 

*39.  Martin  Haug"s  Introductory  Essay  on  the  Pahlavi  Language 
(pp.  152),  prefixed  to  Dastur  Hoshangji  Jamaspji  Asa's  Old  Pahlavi' 
Pazand  Glossary  (Bombay  and  London,  1870). 


486  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

40.  C.  de  Harlez  :  Manuel  du  Pehlevi  des  livres  religieux  et 
historiques  de  la  Perse:  Grammaire,  Anthologie,  Lexique  (Paris,  1880). 

*4i.  C.  Salemann,  Mittelpersische  Studien  in  the  Bulletins  de  I'Acad. 
de  St.  Petersbourg  for  1887,  pp.  417,  et  seqq  =  Melanges  Asiaiiqnes, 
vol.  ix,  pp.  207  et  seqq.  Also  the  same  scholar's  article  Mittelpersisch 
in  vol.  i  of  Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss,  pp.  249-332, 

*42.  West,  Haug,  and  Dastur  Hoshangji  Jamaspji  Asa  :  The  Book 
of  Arda  Viraf :  Pahlavi  text  ....  with  an  English  translation  and 
Introduction  .  .  .  (Bombay  and  London,  1872) ;  Glossary  and  Index 
of  the  same  (1874). 

43.  West :  The  Mainyo-i-Khard  (or  "  Spirit  of  Wisdom  ")  Pazand 
and  Sanskrit  Texts  (in  Roman  characters)  ....  with  an  English 
translation.  .  .  .  Sketch  of  Pazand  Grammar  and  Introduction 
(Stuttgart  and  London,  1871). 

*44-  F.  C.  Andreas :  Pah  law!  text  of  the  above,  a  facsimile  of  a 
MS.  brought  from  Persia  by  Westergaard  and  preserved  at  Copen- 
hagen (Kiel,  1882). 

45.  Prof.  Th.  Noldeke  :  Persische  Studien  I  and  II  in  vols.  cxvi 
and  cxxvi  of  the  Sitzb.  d.  K.  Ak.  d.  Wissenschaflen  in  Wicn,  phil.-hist. 
Class.  (Vienna,  1888  and  1892). 

46.  A.  Barthelemy  :    Gujaslak  Abalish,  relation  dune  Conference 
theologique  presidee   par  le  Calif e  Mdmoun:   texte  pehlm  .  .  .  avec 
traduction,  commentaire  et  lexique  (Paris,  1887). 

47.  P.  Horn  :  Grundriss  der  Neupersischen  Etymologie  (Strassburg, 
1893)- 

48.  H.  Hiibschmann  :  Persische  Studien  (Strassburg,  1895).     Idem, 
Armcnische  Grammatik  (Leipzig,  1897). 

49.  Paul  dc  Lagarde  :  Persische  Studien  (Gottingen,  1884). 

50.  Fr.    Spiegel  :    Gramm.  der  Parsisprache  nebst  Sprachproben 
(Leipzig,    1851).     Idem,   Die   Traditionelle  Litcratur  der  Parsen  in 
ihrem  Zusammenhange  mit  den  angranzenden  Literaturen  (Vienna, 
1860). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  487 

*5i.  E.  W.  West :  On  the  extent,  language,  and  age  of  Pahlavi 
literature,  in  the  Sitzb.  d.  philos-philol.  Classe  der  K.  Akad.  d. 
Wissenschaften  vom  5  Mai,  1888  (pp.  396-443  :  Berlin). 


D.     PRE-MUHAMMADAN   RELIGIOUS  SYSTEMS. 

(a)   ZOROASTRIANISM. 

*52.  Professor  A.  V.  Williams  Jackson  :  Zoroaster,  the  Prophet  of 
Ancient  Iran  (New  York,  1899).  The  reader's  attention  is  again 
especially  called  to  the  excellent  List  of  Works  connected  with  the 
Subject,  which  occupies  pp.  xi-xv  of  this  admirable  work. 

53.  A   Hovelacque  :  L'Avesta,  Zoroastre  et  le  Mazdeisme  (Paris, 
1880). 

54.  E.  W.  West :  Pahlavi  Texts  translated,  in  vols.  v,  xviii,  xxiv, 
xxxvii  and  xlvii  of  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East. 

55.  Professor  C.  P.  Tiele  :  Geschichte  der  Religion  im  Altertum  bis 
auf  Alexander  den  Grossen:   deutsche    autorisierte  Ausgabe  von  G. 
Gehrich :   vol.  xi ;  Die  Religion    bei  den  iranischen    Volkern :    ersle 
Halfte,  pp.  1-187  (Gotha,  1898). 

56.  John  Wilson  :  The  Parsl  Religion  as  contained  in  the  Zand- 
Avastd  (Bombay,  1843). 

57.  Martin   Haug  :    Essays    on  the  Parsis,  3rd  ed.,  edited  and 
enlarged  by  E.  W.  West  (London,  1884). 

58.  Dosabhai    Framji    Karaka  :   History  of  the   Parsis    (2    vols., 
London,  1884). 

59.  Mademoiselle  D.  Menant :  Les  Parsis,  Histotre  des  Commu- 
nautes  Zoroastriennes  de  I'Inde:  Annales  du  Musee  Guimet,  Biblio- 
theque  d' Etudes,  vol.  vii  (Paris,  1898). 

60.  A  Houtum-Schindler  :  Die  Parsen  in  Persien,  Hire  Sprache  und 
einige  ihrer  Gebrauche,  in  vol.  xxxvi  (1882  :  pp.  54-88)  of  the  Zeit- 
schrift  d.  deutsch.  Morgcnland.  Gesellsch. 

(fr.)  CHRISTIANS  UNDER  SASANIAN  RULE. 

*6i.  Georg  Hoffmann  :  Auszuge  aus  Syrischen  Akten  persischer 
Martyrer  .  .  .  (Leipzig,  1880). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

62.  Dr.  W.Wright:  The  Chronicle  of  Joshua  the  Sty  lite,  composed 
in  Syriac,  A.D.  507,  with  a  translation  and  notes  (Cambridge,  1882). 

i 
(c)  MANICH^EANS,  BARDESANIANS,  AND  SAB^JANS. 

*63  Gustav  Fliigel  :  Mam,  seine  Lehre  und  seine  Schriften  (Leipzig, 
1862). 

64.  Dr.  Konrad  Kessler  :  Mani :  Forschungen  iiber  die  Manich'dische 
Religion  (Berlin,  1889). 

65.  Professor  A.  A.  Bevan  :  The  Hymn  of  the  Soul,  contained  in  the. 
Syriac  Acts  of  St..  Thomas :  re-edited  with  an  English  translation  ,  .  . 
(Cambridge,  1897).     Also  the  same  Hymn  of  Bardaisan  rendered 
(more  freely)  into  English,  by  F.  C.  Burkitt  (London,  Essex  House 
Press,  1899). 

*66.  Dr.  D.  Chwolson  :  Die  Ssabier  und  Ssabismus  (2   vols.,  St. 
Petersburg,  1856). 

67.  E.  Rochat :  Mani  et  sa  Doctrine  (Geneva,  1897). 


E.    THE  PERSIAN  EPIC  AND  NATIONAL  LEGEND. 

*68.  Professor  Th.  Noldeke  :  Das  Iranische  Nationalepos :  beson- 
dererAbdruck  aus  dem  Grundriss  derlranischen  Philologie (Strassburg, 
1896). 

69.  Fr.  Windischmann  :  Zoroastrische  Studien  :  Abhandlungen  ztit 
Mythologie  und  Sagengeschichte  des  alien  Iran  (edited  by  Fr.  Spiegel : 
Berlin,  1863). 

*7o.  The  Shdhndma  of  Firdawsi.  There  are  three  editions  by 
Europeans ;  that  of  *Turner  Macan  (4  vols.,  Calcutta,  1829) ;  that 
of  *Jules  Mohl  (7  large  folio  vols.,  Paris,  1838-78),  which  is  accom- 
panied by  a  French  translation  and  commentary;  and  that  of 
Viillers  and  Landauer  (3  vols.,  Leyden,  1877-84).  The  last  is  incom- 
plete, being  only  carried  down  to  Alexander,  and  omitting  the  whole 
Sasanian  period.  Mohl's  translation  has  also  been  published  without 
the  text  by  Madame  Mohl  (7  vols.,  Paris,  1876-78).  There  is  also  a 
German  translation  by  Riickert  (edited  by  Bayer,  3  vols.,  Berlin, 
1890-95).  Of  abridged  translations,  mention  may  be  made  of  A.  F. 
von  Schack's  Heldensagen  des  Firdusi,  in  deutscher  Nachbildung  nebst 
einer  Einleitung  (Stuttgart,  1877),  and  of  the  English  abridgments  of 
^  J.  Atkinson  and  Helen  Zimmermann. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  489 

*7i.  Noldeke  :  Gesch.  des  Artachshir-i-Pdpakdn,  aus  dem  Pehlewi 
iibersetzt  (Gottingen,  1879). 

72.  Darab  Dastur  Peshotan  Sanjana  :  The  Kdrndme-i-Arlakhshir-i 
Pdpakdn  .  .  .  Pahlavi  text  with  transliteration  .  .  .  translations  into 
English  and  Gujeraii,  &c.  (Bombay,  1896). 

*73-  W.  Geiger  :  Das  Ydtkdr-i-Zarirdn  und  sein  Verhdllniss  zum 
Shah-name  in  the  Sitzb.  d.  philos.  philol.  und  histor.  Cl.  d.  K.  layer. 
Ak.  d.  Wiss.  for  1890,  vol.  ii,  part  i,  pp.  43-84  (Munich,  1890).  The 
Pahlawi  text  of  this  was  published  (Bombay,  1897),  by  Jamaspji 
Dastur  Minocheherji  Jamasp  Asana,  and  translations  into  English 
and  Gujerati  (Bombay,  1899)  by  Jivanji  Jamshedji  Modi. 

74.  The  Desatir,  or  Sacred  Writings  of  the  Ancient  Persian  Prophets, 
&c.,  published  by  Mulla  Firuz  bin  Kaus,  with  an  English  translation, 
in  2  vols.  (Bombay,  1818). 

75.  The  Dabistdn  .  .  .  translated  from  the  original  Persian  by  Shea 
and  Troyer  (3  vols.,  Paris,  1843). 

*76.  Histoire  des  Rots  de  Perse  par  .  .  .  al-Tha'dlibt :  texte  arabe, 
public  et  traduit  par  H.  Zotenberg  (i  large  folio  vol.,  Paris,  1900). 


F.    MUHAMMAD,  THE  QUR'AN    AND    THE    CALIPHATE. 

*77.  Ibn  Hisham's  (the  oldest  extant)  Biography  of  the  Prophet 
Muhammad  (Siratu'n-Nabi),  edited  in  the  original  Arabic  by  F. 
Wiistenfeld  (Gottingen,  1858-60);  translated  into  German  (Das 
Leben  Muhammeds  .  .  .  :  Stuttgart,  1864)  by  Gustav  Weil. 

*78.  The  Qur'an  (Coran,  Alcoran)  :  editions  by  Fliigel,  Redslob, 
&c.  ;  English,  translations  by  G.  Sale  (1774,  and  numerous  later 
editions),  J.  M.  Rodwell  (2nd  ed.,  London,  1876),  and  Professor 
E.  H.  Palmer  in  vols.  vi  and  ix  of  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East; 
French  by  Kazimirski  (Paris,  1854) ;  German  by  Ullmann  (fourth 
ed.,  Bielefeld,  1857) ;  Concordance  (Arabic)  by  Fliigel  (Leipzig, 
1842) ;  Extracts  in  the  original,  with  English  translation,  compiled 
by  Sir  W.  Muii  {London,  1880).  *  Noldeke's  Geschichte  des  Qordns 
is  invaluable  (Gottingen,  1860).  A  useful  little  book  for  the  general 
reader  on  The  Coran  was  published  by  the  Society  for  promoting 
Christian  Knowledge. 

79.  Sprenger's  Leben  und  Lehre  Mohamnteds  (3  vols.,  Berlin,  1869). 


490  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

*8o.  Wellhausen's  Mtihammed  in  Medina;  an  abridged  translation 
\  of  al-Waqidi's  KUdbu'l-Maghazi  (Berlin,  1882). 

*8i.  Noldeke's  Das  Leben  Multammed's,  nach  den  Quellen  popular 
dargestellt  (Hannover,  1863). 

~~-      82.  Sir'  William   Muir  i    Life  oj  Mahomet  and  History  of  Islam 
(4  vols.,  London,  1858-61 ;  3rd  ed.,  1895). 

83.  Idem,  Annals  of  the  Early  Caliphate  (London,  1883). 

*84.  Idem,  The  Caliphate,  its  Rise,  Decline,  and  Fall  (2nd  ed., 
London,  1892). 

85.  Ludolf  Krehl :  Das  Leben  und  die  Lehre  des  Muhammed 
(Leipzig,  1884). 

*86.  Gustav  Weil :  Geschichte  det  Chalifen  (4  vols.,  Mannheim  and 
Stuttgart,  1846-62  :  vol.  iv,  which  is  divided  into  2  parts,  treats  of 
the  'Abbasid  Caliphate  in  Egypt  after  the  Mongol  Invasion). 

*87.  Syed  Ameer  Ali  :  The  Life  and  Teachings  of  Mohammed  and 
the  Spirit  of  Islam  (London,  1891) ;  Idem,  A  Critical  Examination  of 
the  Life  and  Teachings  of  Mohammed,  published  some  eighteen  years 
earlier. 

88.  G.  Fliigel :  Geschichte  der  Araber  bis  aufden  Stum  des  Chalifats 
von  Bagdad  (2nd  ed.,  Leipzig,  1864). 

89.  G.  Weil :  Geschichte  der  islamitischen  Volket  von  Mohammed 
bis  zur  Zeit    des  Sultan    Selim    Ubersichtlich    dargestellt   (Stuttgart, 
1866). 

G.    ISLAM,  ITS  SECTS  AND  ITS  CIVILISATION. 

"90.  Dozy  :  Het  Islamisme  (Leyden,  1863  :  Haarlem,  1880)  ; 
French  translation  of  the  same  by  Victor  Chauvin,  entitled,  Essai 
sur  I'Histoire  de  f  Islamisme  (Leyden-Paris,  1879). 

*gi.  Alfred  von  Kremer  :  Geschichte  der  herrschenden  Ideen  des 
I  slams;  der  Gottesbegriff,  die  Prophetie  und  Staatsidee  (Leipzig,  1868). 

*92.  Idem,  Cultergeschichtliche  Streifziige  auf  dem  Gebiete  de$ 
I  slams  (Leipzig,  1873). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  491 

*93.  Idem,  Cultnrgeschichte  des  Orients  unter  den  Chalifen  (2  vols., 
Vienna,  1875-77). 

*94.  Dr.  Ignaz  Goldziher  :  Muhammedatnsche  Studien  (2  vols., 
Halle,  1889-90). 

*95.  T.  W.  Arnold  :  The  Preaching  of  Islam,  a  History  of  the  Propa- 
gation of  the  Muslim  Faith  (London,  1896). 

*96.  Shahristani's  Kitabu'l-Milal  wa'n-Nihal,  or  Book  of  Religious 
and  Philosophical  Sects,  edited  by  W.  Cureton  (London,  1846) ; 
translated  into  German,  with  Notes,  by  Th.  Haarbriicker  (Halle, 
1850-51). 

*97.  Ibn  Khaldun's  Prolegomena  (or  Muqaddamdf)  to  his  great 
history.  Complete  ed.  in  7  vols.  (Bulaq,  A.H.  1284) ;  separate  ed.  of 
the  Prolegomena  (Beyrout,  1879)  ;  text  and  French  translation  of 
the  Prolegomena  (the  former  edited  by  Quatremere,  the  latter  by 
MacGuckin  de  Slane)  in  vols.  xvi-xxi  of  Notices  et  Exlraits  des 
Manuscrits  de  la  Bibliotheque  Nationale. 

*98.  T.  P.  Hughes  :  Notes  on  Muhammadanism  (London,  1877  and 
1878) :  Idem,  A  Dictionary  of  Islam,  being  a  Cyclopaedia  of  the 
Doctrines,  Rites,  Ceremonies  and  Customs,  together  with  the  technical 
and  theological  terms,  of  the  Muhammadan  Religion  (2nd  ed.,  London, 
1896). 

*99.  H.  Steiner  :  Die  Alu'taziliien  oder  die  Freidenker  im  Islam, 
and  Die  Mu'taziliten  als  Vorlaiifer  der  islamischen  Dogmatiker  und 
Philosophen  .  .  .,  both  published  in  Leipzig  in  1865. 

*ioo.  Briinnow  :  Die  Charidschiten  .  .  .  (Leyden,  1884). 

101.  W.  Spitta  :  Zur  Geschichfe  Abu'l-Hasan  al-Ash'an's  (Leipzig, 
1876). 

102.  Goldziher  :  Dte  Schule  der  Zahiriten,  ihr  Ursprung,  ihr  System 
und  Hire  Geschichte  (Leipzig,  1884). 

103.  S.  Guyard  :  Fragments  relatifs  a  la  Doctrine  des  Ismaelh  .  .  . 
avec  tradttction  et  notes  (Paris,  1874) :  Idem,  Un  grand  Maitre  des 
Assassins  (extrait  du  Journal  Asiatique,  Paris,  1877). 

*io4-  S.  de  Sacy  :  Expose  de  la  Religion  des  Druzes  (Paris,  1838  : 
a  vols.). 


\ 


\ 


492  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

105.  Von  Hammer  :  Histoire  de  I'Ordre  des  Assassins  .  .  .  traduit 
de  I'allemand  .  .  .  par  J.  J.  Hellert  et  P.  A.  de  la  Nourais  (Paris, 
1833)- 

106.  Tholuck's  Ssiifismus,   sive   Theosophia  Persanim  Pantheistica 
(Berlin,  1821)  ;    Idem,  Bliithensammlung  aus  der  Morgenlandischen 
Mystik  (Berlin,  1825). 

*iO7.  Dr.  Fr.  Dieterici :  Die  Philosophic  der  Araber  tin  ix  u.  x 
Jahr.  n.  Chr.,  aus  der  Theologie  des  Aristoteles,  den  Abhandlungen 
Alfanibls  und  den  Schriflen  der  lantern  Brilder  .  .  .  16  Biicher 
(Berlin,  Leipzig,  Leyden,  1858-94). 

108.  Professor  de  Goeje  :  Memoires  sur  les  CarmaUies  du  Bahrain 
et  les  Fatimides  (Leyden,  1886). 


H.     BIOGRAPHY,   BIBLIOGRAPHY,    LITERARY    HISTORY, 
RHETORIC,    ETC. 

*ioo,.  Ibn  Khallikan's  Wafaydtul-A'ydn,  Biographical  Dictionary 
of  eminent  and  famous  Muslims  :  Arabic  text,  edited  by  Wiistenfeld 
(Gottingen,  1837  ;  2  vols.) ;  English  translation,  with  Notes,  by  the 
Baron  MacGuckin  de  Slane  (4  vols.,  Paris  and  London,  1842-71). 

*uo.  Hajji  Khalfa  (Khalifa)'s  Bibliographical  Dictionary,  the 
Kashfu 'dh-Dhum'm  'an  Asami l-Kutub  wa'l-Funun,  Arabic  text  with 
Latin  translation,  by  Gustav  Flu' gel  (7  vols.,  Leipzig,  1835-58). 
This  work  is  indispensable  for  the  identification  of  Muhammadan 
books,  and  as  the  author  died  as  late  as  A.D.  1658,  it  includes  all 
but  the  most  modern  Arabic,  Persian,  and  Turkish  literature. 
Fliigel's  edition  contains  full  and  excellent  Indices. 

*iu.  Carl  Brockelmann's  Geschichte  dei  Arabischen  Litteraiut 
(vol.  i,  1897-98 ;  vol.  ii,  part  I,  1899  :  Weimar).  Not  to  be  con- 
founded with  this  is  a  more  popular  work  by  the  same  author  and 
bearing  the  same  title,  which  forms  half  of  vol.  vi  of  a  series  now 
in  process  of  publication  at  Leipzig  (C.  F.  Amelangs  Verlag)  entitled 
Die  Literaturen  des  Ostens  in  Einzeldarstellungen.  The  other  half  of 
this  volume  (published  in  1901)  is  formed  by — 

*H2.  Dr.  Paul  Horn's  Geschichte  der  Persisclien  Liferatur. 

113.  Pizzi,  besides  his  Manuale  delta  lingua  persiana  (1883),  has 
published  (in  Italian)  an  excellent  little  sketch  of  Persian  Literature 
from  the  earliest  times. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  493 

n.«.  Professor  Th.  Noldeke  :  Beitrage  zur  Keniniss  der  Poesie  det 
alien  A raber  (Hannover,  1864). 

*H5-  F.  Wiistenfeld  :  Die  Geschichtschreiber  der  Arabet  und  ihre 
Werke  (Gottingen,  1882). 

116.  I.  Guidi  :  Tables  alphabctiques  du  Kitdbu'l-Aghdnt,  comprcnant 
(/')  Index  des  poetes  dont  le  "  KiUib  "  cite  des  vers  ;  (ii)  Indev  des  rimes  ; 
(in)    Index    hisiorique ;    (iv)    Index   geographique  ;    rcdigees  avec  la 
collaboration  de  MM.  R.  E.  Briinnow,  S.  Fraenkel,  H.  D.  Van  Geldcr, 
W.  Guirgass,  E.  Hclouis,  H.  G.  Kleyn,  Fr.  Seybold  et  G.  Van  Vloten. 
(Leyden,   1895-1900).     One  large,  stout   volume  of  769  +  xi  pp., 
invaluable  for  such  as  can  use  the  vast  stores  of  verse  and  anecdote 
contained  in  the  20  volumes  of  the  great  Arabic  anthology  to  which 
it  forms  the  guide  and  key. 

117.  Darmesteter  :  Les  engines  tie  la  Poesie  persane  (Paris,  1887). 

*n8.  Ethe :  numerous  monographs  on  the  early  Persian  poets 
(see  n.  2  on  p.  452  supra,  but  this  list  is  by  no  means  complete)  ; 
article  on  Persian  Literature  in  the  ninth  edition  of  the  Encyclopaedia 
Brilannica;  and  *  article  in  vol.  ii  (pp  212-368)  of  Geiger  and 
Kuhn's  Grundriss  (No.  i  supra). 

119.  Sir   Gore  Ouseley's    Biographical  Notices  of   Persian  Poets  \ 
(London,  1846).    An  entertaining  and  instructive,  though  in  some   ' 
respects  obsolete,  book. 

120.  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski's  Introduction  to  his  Dlwdn  of 
Miniichihri  ("  Menoutchehri "),  Paris,  1886. 

*I2I.  Fr  Wiistenfeld  :  Die  Academien  der  Araber  und  ihre  Lehrer 
(Gottingen,  1837) ;  Geschichte  der  Arabischen  Aerzte  und  Naturforscher 
(1840).  % 

*I22.  Francis  Gladwin  :  Dissertations  on  the  Rhetoric,  Prosody,  and 
Rhyme  of  the  Persians  (Calcutta  :  reprinted  in  London,  1801). 

*I23.  H.  Blochmann  :  The  Prosody  of  the  Persians  (Calcutta,  1872). 

*I24-  Friedrich  Riickert  :  Grammatik,  Poetik,  und  Rhetorik  det 
Perser  .  .  .  neu  herausgegeben  von  W.  Pertsch  (Gotha,  1874). 

125.  Cl.  Huart's  French  translation  (Paris,  1875)  of  the  Anlsu'l- 


494  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

/-.    'Ushshdq  ("  Lover's  Companion  ")  of  Sharafu'd-Din   Kami  is  a  valu- 
able  guide  to  Persian  lyric  verse. 

126.  Th.  Noldeke  :  Sketches  from  Eastern  History,  translated  by 
John  Sutherland  Black  (London  and  Edinburgh,  1892). 

*I27.  Wiistenfeld's  Vergleichungs-Tabellen  der  Muhammedanischen 
und  Christlichen  Zeiirechnung  (Leipzig,  1854),  with  Supplement 
(Fortsetzung)  by  Dr.  Ed.  Mahler  (Leipzig,  1887)  continuing  the 
reckoning  from  A.H.  1300  (A.D.  1883),  where  Wiistenfeld  concluded 
his  tables,  to  A.H.  1500  (A.D.  2077).  This  book  is  indispensable  for 
all  who  have  occasion  to  convert  Muhammadan  into  Christian  dates, 
or  vice  versa. 

I.    ARABIC  AND  MODERN   PERSIAN   LANGUAGES. 

As  before  said,  Arabic  and  Persian  works  which  have  not  been 
translated  into  some  European  language  are  excluded  from  the 
above  list,  since  their  inclusion  would  have  greatly  increased  the 
size  of  the  Bibliography  without  advantage  to  the  majority  of 
readers,  who  are  ignorant  of  these  languages.  Some  readers  of 
this  class  may,  perhaps,  desire  to  begin  the  study  of  one  or  both 
of  these  languages,  and  for  their  benefit  I  will  add  a  few  words  as 
to  suitable  grammars,  dictionaries,  and  other  text- books ;  a  subject 
on  which  I  constantly  receive  inquiries,  even  from  complete 
strangers. 

Excellent  small  grammars  of  both  languages  are  included  in  the 
Porta  Linguarum  Orientalium  Series  published  by  H.  Reuther 
(Carlsruhe  and  Leipzig).  All  the  volumes  in  this  series  are 
originally  in  German,  but  some  (including  the  Arabic  Grammar  of 
Socin)  exist  also  in  English.  The  Persian  Grammar,  by  Salemann 
and  Zhukovski  (1889),  is  only  published  in  German.  The  earlier 
(1885)  edition  of  Socin's  Grammar  contains  a  much  better 
Chrestomathy  than  the  later  one,  from  which  the  best  Arabic 
extracts  were  removed  to  form  part  of  a  separate  Arabic 
Chrestomathy,  by  Briinnow  (1895)  in  the  same  series.  The  student 
who  wishes  to  get  some  idea  of  Arabic  will  find  the  1885  edition 
sufficient  by  itself  ;  but  if  he  cannot  obtain  it,  and  has  to  be  content 
with  the  later  edition,  he  must  get  the  Chrestomathy  as  well. 

Both  of  these  Grammars,  the  Arabic  and  the  Persian,  contain  excellent 
Bibliographies  of  the  most  important  and  useful  books  for  students  of 
the  respective  languages,  and  it  is  not  necessary  for  me  to  repeat  here 
the  ample  information  on  this  subject  which  can  be  found  in  these 
small  and  inexpensive  but  myst  meritorious  volumes. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  495 

For  the  study  of  Arabic  the  best  grammar  is  Wright's  (3rd  ed., 
revised  by  W.  Robertson  Smith  and  M.  J.  de  Goeje  :  2  vols., 
Cambridge,  1896-98) ;  Palmer's  (London,  1874),  though  neither  so 
full  nor  so  accurate,  is  easier  and  pleasanter  reading.  Ol  Dic- 
tionaries the  only  small,  inexpensive,  and  yet  fairly  complete  one  is 
Belot's  Vocabulaire  Arabe-Franfais  a  I'usage  des  Etudianls  (4th  ed., 
Beyrout,  1896  :  pp.  1,001  :  price  about  ten  shillings).  There  are 
also  a  Diclionnaire  Franfais-Arabe  (Beyrout,  1890 :  pp.  1,609)  and 
a  Cours  pratique  de  la  Langue  Arabe  (Beyrout,  1896),  by  the  same 
author.  Fuller,  larger,  and  even  better,  but  about  four  or  five  times 
as  costly,  is  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski's  Dictionnaire  Arabe- 
Franfais  (2  vols.,  pp.  1,392  and  1,638  :  Paris,  1846-60).  Dozy's 
Supplement  aux  Dictionnaires  Arabes  (Leyden,  1881  ;  2  vols.,  pp.  864 
and  856)  is  invaluable  for  later  Arabic  writers.  Lane's  great  Arabic- 
English  Lexicon  (London,  1863  — ),  is  a  magnificent  torso.  There 
are  also  Arabic- English  Dictionaries  by  Steingass  (London,  1884), 
and  Salmone  (London,  1890). 

For  Persian  the  number  of  dictionaries  and  grammars  is  legion, 
but  it  is  much  harder  to  name  the  best  than  in  the  case  of  Arabic. 
Persian  is  so  simple  a  language  that  almost  any  decent  grammar 
will  serve  the  purpose,  and  a  really  scientific  grammar  of  first-class 
merit  yet  remains  to  be  written.  In  England  the  grammars  of 
Forbes  (4th  ed.,  London,  1869),  Mirza  Ibrahim  (Haileybury  and 
London,  1843  :  Fleischer's  German  version  of  the  same,  Leipzig, 
1847  and  1875)  and  Plaits  (Part  i :  Accidence  :  London,  1894)  are 
most  used,  with  Rosen  (English  translation  by  Dr.  E.  Denison  Ross) 
for  more  colloquial  purposes.  In  French  there  is  the  truly  admir- 
able work  of  A.  de  Biberstein  Kazimirski,  Dialogues  francais-persans, 
precedes  d'un  precis  de  la  Grammaire  persane,  et  suivis  d'un  Vocabulaire 
franfais-persan  (Paris,  1883),  as  well  as  the  Grammars  of  Chodzko 
(1852  and  1883),  Guyard  (1880)  and  Huart  (1899),  with  the  Dialogues 
persan-francais  (1857),  and  the  Dictionnaire  francais-persan  (1885- 
1887)  of  J.  B.  Nicolas.  In  German,  besides  the  two  already  men- 
tioned, there  is  Wahrmund  (Giessen,  1875)  ;  in  Italian,  Pizzi's 
Manuale  (see  above,  No.  1 13) ;  and  in  Latin  Vullers'  Grammatica 
Lingua  Persicce  (Giessen,  1870),  written  chiefly  from  the  point  of 
view  of  the  Comparative  Philologist. 

In  English  the  best  small  dictionaries  ( Persian- Engl.  and 
Engl.-Persian)  are  by  E.  H.  Palmer ;  larger  ones  are  the  Persian- 
Engl.  Dictionary  of  Steingass  (1,539  PP-  >  London,  1892)  and  the 
two  English- Persian  Dictionaries  (a  larger  and  a  smaller,  London, 
1882  and  1889)  of  Wollaston,  who  was  assisted  by  Mirza  Muhammad 
Baqir  of  Bawanat  (see  p.  390  of  this  book).  Vullers'  Lexicon  Persico- 


496  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Latinum  Etymologicum  (2  large  vols.,  Bonn,  1855-67),  though  cum- 
brous and  badly  arranged,  is  on  the  whole  indispensable  until  the 
student  has  learned  enough  Persian  to  use  the  native  dictionaries 
(Burhdn-i-Qdti',  Farhang-i-Rashidi,  &c.)  from  which  it  is  chiefly 
compiled.  As  a  reading-book  nothing  on  the  whole  excels  the 
Gulistdn  of  Sa'di,  of  which  there  are  good  editions  (furnished  with 
full  vocabularies)  and  translations  by  Eastwick  and  Platts. 


INDEX 


In  the  following  Index,  where  a  large  number  of  references  occur  under  one  heading, 
the  more  important  are,  as  a  rule,  printed  in  thicker  type.  The  prefixes  Abu  ("  Father 
of  .  .  ."),  Ibn  ("Son  of  .  .  .")  are  disregarded  in  the  arrangement  of  Muhammadan  names 
into  which  they  enter  :  thus,  for  example,  such  names  as  Abu  Tahir  and  Ibn  Sina  are  to 
be  sought  under  T  and  S  respectively.  A  hyphen  prefixed  to  a  name  indicates  that  it  is 
properly  preceded  by  the  Arabic  definite  article  al- ;  the  letter  b.  between  two  names  stands 
for  ibn,  "  son  of  .  .  ."  Names  of  books,  both  Oriental  and  European,  are  printed  in  italics, 
and  an  asterisk  is  prefixed  to  those  from  which  citations  of  any  considerable  length  occur 
in  the  text  Names  of  authors  and  other  persons  whose  words  are  cited  are  similarly 
distinguished. 

For  typographical  reasons  it  has  been  found  necessary  to  omit  in  the  Index  the  accents 
Indicating  the  long  vowels  and  the  dots  and  dashes  distinguishing  the  hard  letters  in  the 
Arabic  and  Persian  names  and  words  which  it  comprises.  The  correct  transliteration  i,f 
such  words  must  therefore  be  sought  in  the  text. 


Aaron,  409 

Ababil  (birds),  178 

Abalish  "the  Accursed,"  104, 

105,  107 

Aban  al-Lahiqi,  332 
Abarsam,  138 
-'Abbas,  195,  214 
•Abbas  Efendi,  311 
-'Abbas  b.  -Ahnaf  (poet),  277 
-'Abbas     b.     'Amr-Ghanawi 

(general),  354,  402 
-'Abbas  b.  -Walid  (Umayyad 

Crince),  242 
bas     of     Merv     (alleged 
author    of    oldest    Persian 
poem),  13,  340,  452 

Abu'l-'Abbas  -Sal/ah,  g.v.  (first 
'Abbasid  Caliph),  237,  240, 
241,  243,  251,  254,  257 

*Abu'l-'Abbas  Fadl  b.  -'Abbas 
(Persian  poet),  458 

'Abbasid  Caliphs,  6,  90,  159, 
168,  208,  209,  210,  214,  23~6- 
247  (rise  to  power),  251- 
253  (character  of  dynasty), 
thence  onwards  passim 

'Abdan  (Carinathian),  397, 
401 

•Abdu'llah  b.  'AH  (great- 
grandson  of  -'Abbas),  254 

'Abdullah  b.  'Abdu'l-Muttalib 
(the  Prophet's  father),  214 

•Abdu'llah  b.  'Amr  b.  -'A» 
-Zuhri  (scholar),  272 

'Abdu'llah  (brother  of  Babak), 
329,  33° 

'Abdu'llah  b.  Marwan  (Umay- 
yad prince),  244 


'Abdu'llah  b.  Maymun  -Qad- 

dah,  393,  394,  396-398,  406. 

407,  409,  410 
'Abdu'llah  b.  Saba    (first   to 

teach  Divinity  of  'AH),  220 
'Abdu'llah  b.  Sa'id  ('Abbasid 

propagandist),  310 
'Abdu'llah   b.  Shu'ba  (officer 

of  Abu  Muslim),  309 
'Abdu'llah  b.  Tahir  (Tahirid 

prince),  12,  278,  330,  335.  346 
'Abdullah  b.  VVahb  -Kasibi 

(Kharijite  Anti-Caliph),  222 
'Abdu'llah  b.  Zubayr,  228-231 
Abu  Abdi'llah  (Carmathian 

da'i),  397 
Abu  Abdi'llah  Muhammad  b. 

Khafif  of  Shiraz  (Sufi),  372 
'Abdu'l-'Aziz  (Umayyad),  215 
•Abdu'l-Khaliq  (Abdul  Chalig) 

"  Achundow,"  478 
'Abdu'l  -  Malik       (Umayyad 

Caliph),  103,  206,  215,  2s8, 

230,  238,  263,  273,  283,  317, 

3«* 
'Abdu'l-Malik    I     (Samanid), 

372,  463 
'Abdu'l-Malik   II    (Samanid), 

468 

'Abd  Manaf  (Qurayshite),  214 
*'Abdu'l-Masih    (soothsayer), 

173,  182 
'Abdu'l-Muttalib  (grandfather 

of  the  Prophet),  177,  214 
Ibn  'Abd   Rabbihi  (historian, 

of  Cordova),  15,  268,  366 
'Abdu'r-Rahman  (founder  of 

Umayyad  dynasty  of  Cor- 
dova), 215,  245 

33 


'Abdu'r-Rahman  b.  -Ash'ath 

Rebellion  of  — ,  234 
'Abdu'r-Kahman  b.  'Awf,  195, 

202,  388,  450 

'Abdu'r-Rahman  b.  Harmala 

-Aslami  (traditionist),  273 
'Abd     Shams     (Qurayshite), 

214 

'Abd  Zohar  (coins  of  — ),  80 
Abel,  14,  162 
Aberystwyth,  453 
Abhar  (Persian  town),  86 
'Abid   b.    Shariya   of    San'a 

(early  Arab  writer),  273 
Abraha    (Abyssinian     King), 

I7S-I78 
Abraham,  385,  408,  409,  427  ; 

—  identified  with  Zoroaster, 

113 

Abtin  (father  of  Feridun),  115 
Abyssinians,  118,  175,  178-181. 

186-188 
Achxmenes   (=   Hakhaman- 

ish),  92,  121 
Achu:menian  dynasty,  4,  8,  7, 

11, 18,  19,  24,  28,  30,  36,  37, 

39,  56,  60,  65,  67,  70,  79,  82, 

88,  90,  94,  96,  103,  121,  127, 

151,    212.      See    also    Old 

Persian 

Acts  of  Archelaus,  155 
Acts  of  the  Persian  Martyrs, 

134 

'Ad  (ancient  tribe),  430 
Adam,   14,   27,   162,   316,  320, 

408,  409 
Adam  (grandfather  of  Baya- 

zid  of  bistam),  427 
Adams,  Sir  Thomas — ,  41 

497 


498 


INDEX 


Adhar-  (Atur-)  Farnbag,  son 

of  Farrukh-zad,  104,  105 
Adhar  Gushasp  (Sacred  Fire), 

139.  140 
Adharpadh     Mahraspand 

(Zoroastrian  priest),  101 
Adabu'l-Katib   (of    Ibn    Qu- 

tayba),  277 
'Adudu'd-Dawla  (Buwayhid), 

12,  370,  37L  398 
j^schylus,  91 
Ethiopians,    271,    349,    454. 

See  also  Zanj. 
Etiology,  Poetical    (Husn-i- 

ta-lil),  465 

Afarin  (minstrel),  18 
Afarin-nama  (of   Abu    Shu- 

kur),  466 
'Affan  (father  of  the  Caliph 

'Uthman),  215 
Afghanistan,   Afghans,  4,   28, 

83 

Afrasiyab,  116 
Africa]  189,  251,  339,  3.19,  352, 

359.  367,  397,  4°2 
Afrinngan   (Zoroastrian  dox- 

ologiee),  101 
Afshin  (general),  252,  323, 329- 

336 

Agathias,  122,  421 
Agesilaus  (of  Xenophon),  91 
Agha      Muhammad       Khan 

(Qajar),  207 
Ahasuerus,  20,  480 
*Ahli  of  Shiraz  (poet),  225 
Ahlu'1-ahwa,  289 
Ahlu'l-'acll    wa't-tawhid,   281. 

See  also  Mit'tazilites 
Ahlu's-suffa,  297 
Ahmad  b.  Abi  Du'ad  (one  of 

Afshin's  judges),   331,   335, 

336 
Ahmad    b.   Hanbal    (Sunnite 

Imam),   273,   284,  291,  295, 

344.  345.  3Gi 
Ahmad  b.  Isma'il  (Samanid), 

352,  466 
Ahmad  b.  Khidrawayh  (Sufi), 

424 

Ahmad-Khujistani,  355 
Ahmad  b.  Nasr  -Khuza'i  (con- 
spirator), 285 
Ahmad  (successor  of  Abdu'!- 

lah  b.  Maymun  -Qaddah), 

397,  4«) 
*Abu    Ahmad  b.  Abu    Bakr 

-Katib  (poet),  465-466 
Ahriman,  35,  52,  56,  114,  146. 

Sec  also  Aura  Mainyush 
-Ahsa,  403 
Ahsanu't-iaqasim    fi    nta'H- 

fati'l-aqalim   (of   -Muqad- 

dasi),  373 
Ahuna  -  vairya      (verse      of 

Avesta),  98 
Ahura  Mazda,  25,  32,  34,  35, 

64. 65,  72, 93, 04, 95, 1 14,  160  : 

— (name     of     the    planet 

Jupiter),  461 

Ahwaz,  313,  347,  364,  371,  396 
Airan  (=  Iran,  q  v.),  4 
Airyana  (=  Airan),  4 


Airyana  Vaeja,  25,  35,  36 

'A'isha  (wife  of  Prophet),  214, 
217,  343 

'Aja'iWl-Hind,  368 

'Ajam,  265,  268.  See  also 
Persian 

Ajari  (name  of  Manichaans), 
164 

Akasira  (plural  of  Kisra),  127. 
See  Snsanians 

Akbar,  Emperor  of  India,  166 

*-Akhbaru't-ihval,  357.  See 
-Dinau-ari 

-Akhfash  (grammarian),  278 

Akhshuuwar  (Turkish  Kha- 
qan).  121 

-Akhtal  (Arab  poet),  280 

Akhu  Muhsin,  411 

Akkadian  language,  65,  66,  74 

Abu'l-'Ala.    See  -Ma'arri 

Albategnius,  363.  See  -Bat- 
tani 

Albertus  Magnus.  40 

Albigenses,  154,  160 

Alchemy,  274,  362,  379,  428, 
43° 

Alchemy  of  Happiness  (of 
-Ghazzali),  293 

Aleppo,  218,  302,  322,  423 

Alexander  "the  Great,"  9,  21, 
37.  60,  79,  91,  06,  97,  106, 
in,  118-121,  139,  304,  305 

Alexander  Romance,  118,  150 

Alexandria,  366 

Alexandrian  School,  96,  97. 
See  Neo-Platonism. 

'All  b.  Abi  Talib  (cousin  of 
the  Prophet  and  First 
Imam  of  the  Shi'ites),  98, 
130,  133,  180,  iQ4,  203.  210, 
212,  214-224  226  228,  231, 
2i5.  239.  246,  252,  25H,  261, 
276,  283,  290,  21/1,  342,  343, 
348,  350.  388,  391,  392,  398, 
407,  408,  409.  See  also 
Ghitlat,  Shi'iUs. 

'AH  b.  -Husayn  b.  'All.  See 
Zayn  u'l-'A  bidin. 

'Ah  Akbar,  131 

•AH  Asghar,  131 

'Ali  -Rida.  SecRiiia.Imam — . 

'AH  b.  -'Abbas  -Majusi  (phy- 
sician). 375 

'Ali  b.   'Abdu'llah  b.  -'Abbas, 

254 

'AH  b.  Buwayh,  360.  See 
'Imadti'd-Dawla. 

'AH  b.  H.imza-Kisa'i  (gram- 
marian), 276 

'Ali  b.  Harun-Shaybani  (Sa- 
manid poet),  365 

'Ali  b.  Hisham,  334 

'AH  b.  'Isa  (Wazir  of  -Muq- 
tadtr),  360,  429,  434 

'Ali    b.    Jahm    -Sami  (poet), 

345 

'AH  b.  Muhammad  -Warza- 
nini  (leader  of  Zanj  re- 
bellion), 350 

'Ali  Mazdak,  247,  328 

Abu  'Ali  -Bal'ami,  356,  368, 
478 


•AHds('Ala\v!yya,  descendants 

of  'Ali  b.  Abu  Talib),  239. 

See  Imams,  Shi'ites. 
Ahgarh.  202 
Ibnu'I-'Allaf  (poet),  363 
Allah  Ta'ala  (God),  how  re- 
garded by  heathen  Arabs, 

190 
Allegorical       Interpretation, 

285.    See  Ta'wil. 
Alptagin  (founder  of   Ghaz- 

na\vi  dynasty),  372 
Alpuxarras  Mountains,  9 
Alvand,  Mount  — ,  63 
Amadana,  20.  SeeHamadan. 
Ameer  Ali,  Sayyid  — ,  188 
America,  Babiism  in — ,  311 
Amid  (Diyar  Bakr),  134 
Amin  ('Abbasid  Caliph),  252, 

254,  256 
Aminu  Ali  Muhammad  (title 

of  Abu  Muslim,  q.v.),  256 
'Amiri,    Muhammad  b.   'Ab- 

du'r-Rahman  —  (jurist),  273 
Ibn  'Amir  ('Uthman's  cousin), 

216 
Amir  Pazawari  (Mazandarani 

poet),  83 
Amiru'l  -  Kafirin,      -Ma'mun 

called  — ,  307 
Amir-1  Sa'id  (title  of  Nasr  II 

the  Samanid),  365 
Amiru'l  Umara  (title  of  Bu- 

wayhids),  364,  367 
Ammianus   Marcellinus,    66, 

75 

Ammonius,  421 
'Amr  b.  -'As,  218.  219 
'Amr  b.  Bahr.    See  -Jahidh. 
'Amr  b.  Layth  (Saffarid),  348, 

352,  354-  355,  359,  453 
'Amr  b.  Sa'd,  228 
•Amr     b.     'Uthman  -  Makki 

(Sufi),  436 
'A.   M.   S  (Nusayri    Trinity), 

203 

Amshaspands,  100,  101,  160 
Anabasis  of  Xenophon,  91 
Anahita   (Nahid,    the    planet 

Venus),  95,  461 
"Ana'1-Haqq,"  361,  362 
-Andakhudi,      Shamsu'd-Din 

Muhammad  (biographer  of 

poets),  448 
Andalusia,  263.    See  Cordova, 

Spain 
Andreas,  F.  C.  — ,  70,  78,  82, 

106 

Angels,  160 
Angles,  5 
Anglo-Saxon  language,  82, 95  ; 

teaching  of  —  introduced  at 

Cambridge,  41 
Annihilation  in  God  (=  F  ana 

fi'llah,  q.v.),  443 
Anoshak-rubano.  See  Nnshir- 

wan 
Anquetil  du   Perron,   42,   43, 

45-53-  56-58,  61,  62,  67,  97 
Anra  Mainyush  (=  Ahriman, 

q-v.),  35,  52,  56,  99,  114,  160 
Ansab,    See  Genealogy 


INDEX 


499 


Ansar,  213,  215,  230,  231.  See 
Companions 

Antiocn,  421 

Antiochus,  21 

Anthropomorphism,  310,  311, 
3'4.  315-316,  435 

Anusha-zadh,  136,  1 68,  181 

Anushirwan.    See  Nushirwan 

Anwari  (Persian  poet),  389, 
437 

Anwar-i-Siihavli,  341 

Aogemadaeca*  102 

Aoj-  (root),  27 

Apocrypha  of  Daniel,  479,  480 

Apollodorus,  21 

-•Aqaba  (in  Surra-man-ra'a), 
329 

Arab  heathenism  (=  Jahi- 
liyyat,  qv.\  186-194,  212, 
231,  261.  274 

Arabian  Nights,  254,  277 

Arabian  Science,  204 

Arabic  character,  9,  10,  82 ; 
Spanish  in  — ,  9 

Arabic  language  the  vehicle 
of  Muslim  Science  till 
Mongol  Invasion,  340,  377  ; 
—  ill  Persia,  and  Arabic 
literature  produced  by 
Persians,  3,  4,  211,  278,  348, 
365,  445-447,  474-477  :  — 
preserved  in  siyaq  notation 
in  Persia,  67 ;  importance 
of  —  for  study  of  Persian, 
89,  90 ;  elements  of  —  in 
Persian,  73  ;  study  of  —  in 
Europe,  39-41  ;  —  reduced 
to  writing  by  command  of 
Jamshid,  80 ;  translations 
into  —  from  Pah!a\vi,  76, 
no,  1 18,  123;  —  written 
in  Syriac  character  (Kar- 
shuni),  8,  9 

Arabic  script,  10,  82 

Arabs,  character  of  — ,  189- 
194,  252,  404,  472  ;  —  men- 
tioned in  Behistun  Inscrip- 
tion, 94 ;  —  learn  their 
power,  184  ;  influence  of  — 
on  Persia,  6,  36,  37,  66 ; 
antipathy  between  —  and 
Persians,  114,  130,  242,  327, 
331-332,  334;  pride  of  — , 
213,  229 ;  decline  of  zeal 
and  power  of  — ,  244,  251- 
252,  342,  345  ;  minor  refer- 
ences, 4,  63,  173,  174,  181, 
357,  369  388.  See  also 
Conquest,  Arab  — ,  Racial 
feeling.  Subject  races, 
Shti'ubiyya,  Hawaii 

IbnuVArabi,  Shaykh  Muh- 
yiyyu'd-Din  —  (Sufi),  419, 
420,  438 

Ibnu'l-A'rabi  (grammarian), 
278 

Arachosia,  35,  94 

Aralcadris.  31 

Aramaic,  36,  37,  66,  73,  74,  75, 
77.  80,  81,  89.  See  also 
Chaldaan,  Syriac 

Araxes,  River  — ,  25,  35 


Arbil.  33 

Arbitration    of     Dawmatu'l- 

Jandal,  219,  221 
Archelaus.  Acts  of — ,  155 
Arcs  of  Ascent  and  Descent, 

441 

Ardabil,  324,  325 
Ardashir-i-Babakan   (founder 

of  Snsnnian  Dynasty),  9,  58, 

70,  97, 103, 108, 112, 117, 119- 

120.    121,    122,     136-151,    153, 

158.    See  also  Artakhshatr- 

i-Papakano 
Ardashir  III  (Sasanian),  174, 

182 

Ardashir,  Dastur  — ,  47 
Arda  Viraf,  Book  of—,  43,  96, 

106,  118.  157 
Ardawan,    136,   137-139,  140- 

M5,  154 
*'Arib.    b.    Sa'd    of    Cordova 

(historian),    360,    362,    363, 

428,  430,  432,  434 
Anes,  Sign  of  — ,  1 14,  259 
'Arif  ("  Gnostic  "),  424 
'Arifu'z-Eanadiqa,  159 
Aristotle  (Aristu,  Aristatalis), 

39,  40,   119,  277,    286,   293, 

305,  38l 

Aristotelians,  Arabian  — ,  289 
Ariyaramna      (Achasmenian), 

63.  92 
Arjasp,  460 

Armegand  of  Montpellier,  40 
Armenians,  8,  41,  94,  127,  201, 

313 

•Arnold,  Sir  Edwin  — ,  442 
*Arnold,  T.  W.  — ,   202,  206, 

2O7,  212,  448 

Arphaxad  (Arfakhshad),  114 

Arrajan,  324,  364 

Arrows,    shooting    of   —   to 

determine  site,  152,  153 
Arshama  (Achaemenian),    63, 

92,  93 

'Arsh  (Throne  of  God),  427 
Artabanus.    See  Ardawan 
Artai  (wind),  143 
Artakhshatr-i-Papakano,     70, 

71,  93,   106,   108,    117,    122, 
136-151,  153 

Artaxerxes  Longimanus,  117 
Artaxerxes  Mnemon,  20,  120 
"  Aryan  genius,"  301 
Aryans  (Ariya,  Airiya),  4,  29, 

33,  56,  80,  90,  04,  114,  419 
Aryat   (Abyssinian  general), 

175,  176 
Arzhang    (Artang)    of    Man! 

(Manes),  166 

Abu'l-'As  b.  Umayya,  215 
Asad  (tribe),  370 
Asad  b.  'Abdu'llah  (Governor 

of  Khurasan),  207,  352 
Asad-'Amid,  460 
Asad    b.   Musa   b.    Ibrahim, 

274 

Asadi    (poet),    437 ;    (lexico- 
grapher), 86,  450,  457,  474, 

478 

Ibn  'Asakir,  264 
'AsaM-dukhta  ("sewn  honey," 


the  yellow  garments  worn 

by  the  Guebres),  343 
Asas  (term  of  Isma'ilis),  409, 

4'3 

Ascetics  (Zuhhad),  298 
Ashab.    See  Companions. 
Ash'ari,   Abu   Musa  —  ,   219  ; 

Abu'l-Hasan  — ,    212,    283, 

285,  286,  291-292,  352,  364, 

366 
Ashemaogha  (heretic),   Maz- 

dak  so  styled,  169,  171 
Ashghaniyan,      Ashkaniyan, 

in,    118,    158.      See    also 

Parthians. 
Ibnu'l-Ashtar     (General     of 

-Mukhtar),  238 
'Askar  Mukrani  (place),  396 
-Asma'i  (philologist),  277,  350, 

357 
Asman  (27th  day  of  month), 

146 
Asp  -  i  -  nawbati       ("  sentry 

horse"),  317 
"Ass,"  Marwan   II  so  called. 

See  Marwan  II 
Assassins,   54,   172,   311,    392, 

395,  396,  408,  424 
Assyrians,   20,   21,   23,.  36,  37, 

55,  <>5,  66,  67.  74,  75,  81,  89, 

90,  94,  109,  305,  306 
Astarabad,  448 
Astronomy,  289,  304    . 
Astyages,  21 
Asm  a  (demon)  in  Sanskrit  =» 

Ahura  (God)  in  Avcsta,  34 
'Ata    (name   of    -Ituqantia', 

q.v.),  320 
Abu'l-'Atahiya  (poet),  276,  277, 

370 
'Ata     -Ghazzal     (father     of 

Wasil),  281 

A'tham  -Kufi  (historian),  363 
*-Atharu'l-baqiya  (of  -Biruni. 

q.v.),  154,  469 
*Atharu'l-bilad  (of-Qazwini), 

15,  157.  257,  319,  324 
Athenaeus,  121 
Athenians,  94 
-Athim     (=  Pers.     Baza-gar, 

"the    Sinner"),    135.      See 

Yazdigird  I. 
*Ibnu'l-Athir  (historian),  169, 

321-323,  360 

Athravan  (Fire-priest),  31 
Atropatene,  19,  25,  28,  29,  30, 

36, 78.    See  also  Aza  rbayia  n 
*'Attar,  Shaykh  Faridu'd-Din 

—  (poet  and  mystic),  294, 

299,  361,  362,  389,  4«6,  424- 

428,  436, 437,  444 
Augustine,  St.  — ,  155 
Averroes    (Ibn     Rushd),    40, 

288-289,  204,  381 
Avesta,  4,  22-31,  34,  37,  42- 

44,  60,  53,  86-59,  63,    07- 

70,  88,  91,  95-102,  105,  108, 

Ill-Ill,  116,  120,  143,  169, 

206,    801 ;  —  meaning    ot 

term,  78 ;  —  identified  with 

Abraham's  Revealed  Book 

(Suhuf),  H3 


5oo 


INDEX 


Avestic  language  (so-called 
",Zend  "  or  "  Old  Bactrian  "), 
27,  39,  43,  44-  60,  62,  67,  78, 
81,89 

Avicenna  (Ibn  Sina),  40,  288, 
289,  293,  368,  372,  375-  38i, 
470 

*'Awfi,  Muhammad  —  (author 
of  Lubabu'l-Albab  and 
Jawami'u'l-hikayat),  13,  15, 
262,  283,  340,  449,  450,  452- 
455,  462,  463,  466,  468,  470 
471 

Awhadu'd-Din  Kirmani(poet), 
420 

Abu  'Awn,  245 

'Ayn  b.  'Ayn  b.  'Ayn,  241 

'Aynu'l-Kamal .    See  Evil  Eye. 

Aywan  -  i  -  Kisra  (Palace  of 
Chosroes),  258 

Ayyam  ("days,"  »'.«.,  notable 
battles,  of  the  Arabs),  270, 
388 

Abu  Ayyub-Muriyani,  258 

Az  (in  Talish  dialect  =  azem, 
"  I "  in  Avestic),  27 

Azarbayjan  (Adharbadhagan), 
19.  28,  35,  78,  79.  313,  325, 
448.  See  Atropalene. 

Azhi-Dahaka,  114.  SeeDahak. 

-Azraqi  (historian  of  Mecca), 

345 

-'Aziz,  Abu  Mansur  Nazar 
(Fatimid  Caliph),  373 


B 

Babak  (Papak),  the  father  of 

Ardashir     Babakan    (q.v.), 

122,  137-142 
Babak  (heresiarch),  247,  311, 

323-831,  334,  336 
*Baba   Tahir   (dialect  poet), 

26,  27,  83 
Ibn  Babawayh(Shi'ite  divine), 

375 

-Babbagha  (poet),  370 
Babis,  86,  98,  99,  100,  101,  130, 

165,  170,  172,  311,  312,  407, 

410,  415,  423 
Babylon,    Babylonia,   21,  04, 

128,  154,  158,  163,  164,  282, 

3°i,  3°5,  3°6,  357 
Bacon,  Roger  — ,  40 
Bactria,  4,  25,  28  —  31,  34,  35, 

78,  94,  95 

-Bada  (heretical  tenet),  311 
Badaraya,  158 
Badghis,  309,  317,  346,  452 
Badhan    (Persian    satrap    of 

-Yaman),  181,  183 
-Badhdh,  Mountain  of  — ,  325, 

326 
Badi',  Abu  Muhammad  —  of 

Balkh,  467 
Badi'u'z-Zaman  -Hnmadhani, 

463,  464 

Badr,  Battle  of  — ,  216 
Bagayadish     (Old      Persian 

month),  32 


Baghdad,   6.    163,    164,    197- 

198,  209,  210,  254,  258,  259, 

274,  286,  289,  292,  293,  295, 

306,  307,  316,  317,  329,  339- 

342>  346,  353.-  356,   358-361, 

364,  367,  377,  398,  4°2.  434- 

446,  465,  466,  474 
Baehir  (Turkish  general),  342 
Baharistan    (of    Jami),    417, 

425.  456 
Baha'u'llah,  311 
Bahlabad  (minstrel  of  Khus- 

raw  Parwiz).    See  Barbad 
Bahman,  97,  117,  118, 137, 142. 

See  also  Vohumano 
Bahman  Yasht,  169 
Bahram    I.    (Sasanian),    154, 

157-159,  163 

Bahram  II.  (Sasanian),  154 
Bahram  V.  (Sasanian),  called 

"Gur,"  "the  Wild  Ass,"  12, 

262,  364 
Bahram  Chubin,  109,  129,  181, 

267,  352 

Bahrayn,  201,  344,  402 
Balahbad.    See  Barbad 
Bakan  Yasht,  98 
-Bakharzi,    -Husayn    b.    'AH 

(biographer  of  poets),  358, 

448 

Bakhtiyari  dialect,  87 
Bako  Yasht,  97 
Abu  Bakr  (Caliph),  194,  195, 

205,  209,  210,  214,  217,  330. 

343,  391,  437 
-Bakuratu's  -  Sulaymantyya, 

203 
Bakusaya     (in     Babylonia), 

158 
Ba'labakk    (Baalbeck),     278, 

3ofi 
-Baladhuri     (historian),     no, 

152,  197,  199,  201,  202,  203, 

203,  281,  263.  268,  323,  337 
-Balaghatu's-sab'a     (Isma'ili 

book),  401 
-Bal'ami,  Abu'1-Fadl  — ,  356 ; 

Abu    'Ali   —  (son   of    the 

preceding),     II,    no,    356, 

368-369,  455,  478 
Balfour  of  Burleigh,  221 
Balkatagin  b.  Alptagin,  372 
Balkh,  4,  35,  36,  163,  207,  244, 

252.  257,  315,  347,  348,  354, 

425.    See  also  Bactria 
-Balkhi,  Abu  Zayd  —  (geo- 
grapher), 315,  368,  372 
Ballad  poetry,  16,  17,  18 
Baluchistan,  4,  83 
Bamdadh  (father  of  Mazdak, 

q.v.),  169 
Bang,  W.  — ,  64 
Banu'l-Ahrar  (Persian  settlers 

in  -Yaman),  181,  262 
Barbad  (minstrel  and  poet  of 

Khusraw  Parwiz),  14-18 
Barbier  de  Meynard,  132,  365, 

368,447 

Bardesanes,  160 
Bardesanians,  382,  387,  415 
Bardiya  (Smerdes),  31,  32 
Barfaryad,  162 


Bar    Hebraeus   (Abul-Faraj), 

322,  323 

Barmak  (ancestor  of  Barme- 
cides, q.v.),  257,  258 
Barmecides,  164, 252,  254,  257, 

258,  276,  342 
Barsom,  52 

Barthelemy,  Paul  de  St.  — .  59 
Barthelemy,  107 
Bartholonue,  64 
Barton,  Dr.  —  (of  Oxford),  50 
Barzaentes  (satrap  of  Darius), 

9i 

Bas-faruj  =  Abu  Sufra,  263 
Bashshar  b.  Burd  (poet  and 

sceptic),  267,  276 
BacriXtioi  SiQOtpat,  122 
BuaiXtKci    ctTrofivrifiovtv- 

Hara,  122 
Basra,  184,  216,  219,  223,  245, 

263,  270,  289,  296,  302,  349, 

35.8,  359,  378,  383,  396,  402 
Batinis,    311,    407,    414,    422. 

See  Isma'ilis,  Carmathians, 

Sect  of  the  Seven,  &c. 
-Battani,  Muhammad  b.  Jabir 

b.  Sinan  (Albategnius),  363 
Baur,  155,  191 

Bayabak  (Turkish  officer),  342 
Bayan  (of  Babis),  101 
Bayazid  of  Bistam  (Sufi),  352, 

426-428 
Bayda  (=  Dizh-i-sapid,  "the 

White  Castle,"  in  Fars),  434 
Bayhaq,  355 
Bayhaqi  (historian  of  Ghaz- 

nawi  Dynasty),  331 
-Bayhaqi  (author  of  Kitabu'l- 

Mahasin,  q.v.),  15,  18 
Baynun  (castle  in  -Yaman), 

175 

Baysunghar,  122 
Baytu'l  -  Hikma  ("  House  of 

Wisdom"    of    the    Caliph 

-Ma'mun),  306 
Baza -gar    (=  -Athim,    "the 

Sinner,"  a  term  applied  to 

Yazdigird  I,  q.v.),  135,  166 
Bazanes  (Bishop),  172 
Beatific  Vision,  285,  287,  361 
Beausobre,  155 
Bedouin,  271.    See  Arabs. 
Beer,  64 
Behbehan,  87 
Behistun    (Bagastana,    Bi-si- 

tun),  5,  31,  63,  66,  70,  78,  92, 

93 

Bel,  10 

Benfey,  Prof.  — ,  9,  68 
Berbers,  397 
Beresine,  27,  83 
Berlin  Library,  262,  449,  452, 

464 

Bermann,  153 
Berosus,  21 

Bessus  (satrap  of  Darius),  91 
Bevan,   Prof.  A.  A.  — ,   159, 

160,  165 
Bibi  Shahrbanu.    See  Shahr- 

banu 
Bible,  37 


INDEX 


Bibliotheque  du  Roi,  — 
Nationale  (Paris),  45,  67, 

374.  479 
Bigthan,  20 
Bih-afaridh    (Persian   heresi- 

arcb),  308-310,  323 
Bihishti  (title  of  apocryphal 

king),  480 

Bihzad  (father  of  -Sirafi),  372 
Bilal-abadh,  324,  325 
Bilqis  (Queen  of  Sheba),  175, 

3»5 

Bindu'e  (uncle  of  Khusraw 
Parwiz),  18 1 

Biographies  of  Persian  Poets. 
See  -Andakhudi.  'Awfi, 
-Bakharzi,  ChaharMaqala, 
Dawlatshah,  -Tha'alibi, 
Tabaqat,  Tadhkira,  Yati- 
matu'd-Dahr 

Birku'l-Iumad,  272 

•-Biruni,  Abu  Rayhan  (his- 
torian and  astronomer), 
110,  123,  136,  154,  155.  188- 
139,  160,  247,  2S9,  268,  270. 
80S  309,  ^,  318  319,  3SA 
359,  371,  419,  469,  475 

Bishr  (disciple  of  Htisayn  b. 
Mansttr  -Hallaj,  q.v.),  431 

Bishr  b.  -Hr.rith,  424 

Bi-situn,  5.  See  also  Behis- 
tun,  Old  Persian  Inscrip- 
tions 

Bismi'llah,  Analogy  between 
—  and  Ahuna  vairya 
formula,  98 

Bisra  (meat)  read  as  "gusht" 
in  Pahlawi,  66,  76 

Bistam  (uncle  of  Khusraw 
Parwiz),  181 

Bistam  (town  in  Persia),  427 

Bit  Dayaukku,  21 

Biward  (Abiward),  242 

Black,  J.  Sutherland  — ,  347 

Black,  colour  of  'Abbasids, 
242,  243,  244,  310 

Black  Stone,  359,  367,  403,  404 

Bland,  Nathaniel  — ,  13,  449, 

4Si 

Blochmann,  389,  473 
Blowing  on  knots  as  magic 

rite,  366 
Bodleian  Library,  41,  42,  44, 

Bogha  ("the  Bull,"  Turkish 

name),  342 
Bokht  ("hath  delivered")  in 

Persian  names,  145-146 
Bokht  Yishu'  (physician),  146, 

344.  345.  367 

Bollensen,  64 

Bologna  40 

Bombay,  48,  103,  206 

Book  of  Origins  (Ghayalu'l- 
•uiasa'il  ila  marifati'l- 
awail),  3Sf',  455 

Book  of  Nabathcean  Agricul- 
ture, 357 

Bopp,  68 

Boswell  Smith,  188 

Bourchier  (Bowcher),  G.  — , 
44 


Bovffat,  23-24 

Brahmins,  56 

Brandt,  Dr.  A.  J.  H.  W.  — , 

302 

Brethren  of   Purity."     See 

Ikhwanu's-Safa 
Brisson,  Barnaby  de  — ,  42 
British  Museum  Library,  374, 

448,  457,  473 
*Brockelmann,  Carl  — ,   253, 

267,  268,  273,  274,  276,  277, 

278.  305-308,  343,  357,  388, 

373-374,  375,  378,  383 
Briinnow,  212,  220,  221,   222, 

232 
Buddha,  Buddhism,  103,  154, 

162,  163,  300,  301,  442 
Bugha  (or  Boglia,  qv.),  336, 

342 

-Buhturi  (poet),  357 
Bukhara,  16,  17,  35,  322,  365- 

366,  368,  468,  475 
-Bukhari     (traditionist),    351, 

357 

Bundahishn,  48,  96,  105 
Bundar  (or  Pindar)  of   Ray, 

85,86 
-Bundari    (historian    of    Sel- 

juqs),  43,  115,  464 
Burjak  and  Burjatur,  146,  147 
Burjin-Mihr    (Sacred     Fire), 

139 

Burnouf,  Eugene  — ,  63,  67, 68 
Burns,  Baba  Tahir  compared 

to  — ,  83 

Buruna  (suburb  of  Herat),  17 
Bushanj,  244 
Bushaq  (Abu  Ishaq,  poet,  of 

Shiraz),  85 

Bushkast  (grammarian),  262 
Bust  (town),  378,  448 
Bustan  of  Sa'di,  145,  341,  423 
Buwayb,  Battle  of  — ,  6 
Buwayhid    Dynasty,    6,    12, 

292,  360,  364-365,  367,  37o, 

372,  374,  375,  376,  398,  446, 

453,  465,  466,  474 
Buzurg  b.  Shahriyar  (Persian 

sea-captain),  368 
Byron,  107 
Byzantines,  127,  151,  167,  168, 

174,  179,  181,  182,  185,  206, 

224,  302,  305 


Cadmus,  51 

Cain,  162 

Cairo.  295,  367,  399,  4°° 

Calendar,  Zoroastrian  —  com- 
pared with  Babi  — ,  loo-ioi 

Caliphate,  Caliph  (Khilafat, 
Khalifa),  209,  et  seqq.  See 
Orthodox  Caliphs,  Umay- 
yads,  'Abbasids,  Fatimids 

Calligraphy  prized  by  Mani- 
chaeans,  165,  362 ;  —  by 
Husayn  b.  Mansur-Hallaj, 
362,  431 

Calvinism,  Effects  of  — ,  286. 
See  Predestination. 


Cambridge,  41,  183,  356,  446, 

449,  464,  477 
Cambyses    (Kambujiya).    31, 

32,  55,  92 

Camel,  Battle  of  the  — ,  ZI7 
Camphor  mistaken  for  Salt, 

'99 

Cappadocia,  94 
Caracalla,  Emperor  — ,  304 
Carmathians    (Qarmati,     pi. 

Qaramita),    212,    311,    319, 

339,  350,  352,  354,  356,  358- 

359,  362,  367,  368,  371,  391- 

415,  423,  434 ;  etymology  of 

title,  397.  See  also  Fatimid 

Caliplis,  Ghulat,    Isma'ilis, 

Sect  o(  the  Seven,  Shi'ites 
Carra  de  Vaux,  356,  368 
Carrhze  (Harran,  q.v.),  302 
Cashmere,  54 
Caspian  Sea,    203,    207,    348, 

364,367 

Caste  -  systeni    amongst   an- 
cient Persians,  114 
Cathares.     See  KaOapoi,  Air 

bigenses 
Catholics,  168 
Cayumers    (properly    Gayu- 

marth),  55,  56 
"  Celestial "  as  royal  epithet 

in  Sasanian  limes,  153 
Celtic  genius,  447 
Chaghani  dynasty,  453,  462, 

467,  47i 
Chahar  -  bokht    ("  the    Four 

have    delivered,"    Persian 

name),  146 
*Chahar-Maqala,  15,  317,  348, 

355,  359,  396,  449,  456,  460, 

470 
Chaishpish  (Teispes)  theAch- 

amenian,  63,  92 
Chakhra  (place  mentioned  in 

Vendidad),  35 
Chaldaea    (Sawad),    132,    205, 

302,  382,  397 
Chaldaean  language,  40,  44,  56, 

58,  70  (Chaldaean-Pahlawi), 

73,  89,  128,  479 
Changiz  Khan,  6,  286.     See 

also  Mongol  Invasion. 
Charas  of  Mitylene,  121 
Chardin,  42,  57,  59 
Charles  VI.,  153 
Chatrang-namak  ("  Book  of 

Chess"),  109 
Chauvin,  Victor  — ,  211.    See 

under  Dozy. 
Chess,  109,  no 
Chetak  (chedak),  153 
China,  48, 85, 421  ; — and  Mani- 

ch.ranism,    159,   164  ; — and 

Balkh,  258  ;  visited  by  Bih- 

afarid,  308 
Chinese  language,  60, 65, 80 ; — 

paper,  431  ;— painting,  454 
de  Chinon,  Gabriel  — ,  43 
Chinvat  Bridge,  106 
Chithratakhma  (rebel  against 

Darius),  33 
Chosroes   (Khusraw,    Kisra), 

137,  128 


502 


INDEX 


Christ     See  ?«*$  ( 

Constantinople  libraries.  383 

Daqtqi    (Persian    poet).    123, 

Christians    under    SacinUn 

Continuity  of  National  His- 

37*. 453.  456.  U9-U3 

rule,  106,  134,  135 

tory.  89 

Dara.  117.  118,  119,  139,  140. 

168  ;  despised  by 

Conversions    to    Islam,   how 

461 

wan.  136.  181  ;  —  Salman  the 

effrcted.  202,  203,  207 

Darab.  Dastur  —  .  47.  58 

Persian  joins  the  —  ,  201  ;  — 

Converts  to  Islam,  207,   233- 

Abu'd-Darda      (traditioOMtX 

of  Najran,  175  :—  • 

235.  246,  252,  352,  367 

272 

sinia.    175;  —  under    eatly 

Coppersmith.      See    Saffarid 

Dari(  Deri)  dialect,  26 

Muhamniadan  rulers,  200. 

Dynasty.   Ya'qub  b.  Laytk. 

Darius.  5.  31.  32,  33,  61-64.  7*. 

201,  232,  234,  280  ;  —  under 

'Am*  b.  Laytk 

79,91-94.96.  no,  121 

-Mutawakkii,  290.  .; 

'•  *4^-  279,  366,  398 

Dannesteter,  Professor  James 

—under   Fat.  mid    Cahphs, 

—  .  I«.  22,   24-26.   28,   29.  31. 

399-400;  —  native  —  in  In- 

rtcillc, Pavel  —  ,  368 

33.  50.  57-59.  68-70.  78.  81. 

dia.    264-265  ;  —  Syrian    — 

.:iters,  Scottish  —  ,  37, 

95-97.  »4«.  14^.  161.  167,  255. 

and  heathens,   304  :  Chris- 

221 

348.  479.  480 

tian  names  in  -<v 

Cow,     Chanter     of     the    — 

Dasatir  (Desatir),  53,  56 

—  and  Muhammadan  stun 

(Suratu'l-oaqara),  191 

D.isiobar  (Dastur),  9,  47,  58. 

dards,lS8  \-malakini  (Apo- 

Cowell,  Professor  —  ,  94.  457 

See  also  Zoroattrian  I'rmli 

cryphal  Books),  241  ;—  scho- 

Crawford and  Balcarres,  Lord 

Datik      (legal      port 

lars  in  Islam,  278.  306,  345. 
351.  366  ;—  influeiu  • 

—  ,  262.  440.  45* 
Creasv.  Sir  Edward  —  ,  209 

A\f~Li).  07 
•  i-t)intk,  10^ 

bammadan  Theology,  188, 

Cross,  Wood  oi  the  True  —  . 

Da'ud  b.  'All  -Dhahifi  (theulo- 

311,  426;  —  child  addressed 

182 

Hian).  357 

in  verse,  454  ;  minor  refer- 

de la  Croix.  Petit*  —  ,  42 

Daud     b.     -All    b.     KhaUf 

ences,  170,  172,  173,  261,  274, 

Crusades,  480 

-Isfahani  (jurist).  386 

*93.  303.  382.  384 

Ctesiss.  20,  21,  23,  91,  120 

Daud    -Tai   (Sufi).   298,  418, 

ians  of  St.  John  the 

Ctesiphon,  132,  136,  182,  183, 

4*4 

U.iptist."  302     See  Mnndct- 

17).  222,  313.  324 

"  Daughter       of       Desire  " 

ant.  UuRhtastla.  Sabcrans 

Cuneiform,  Persian  —  .  7,  43. 

(lbnatut~Hin)     in     Manl- 

Christianity,  154,  162,  180,  203, 

44,  56.  59-65,  67.  78,  80.  K>. 

ch.cau  system,  162 

300,    301,   305  ;  —  as  under- 

01-95   See  also  Old  Penian 

David,  113.  440 

stood  by  Sufis,  443 

lanfuagf 

Da'wa      (Propaganda)       of 

Chronology  falsified,  119,  120 

Cureton.   169.     St-e  -Shahris- 

'Abbasids.      236.     238-247. 

*CtironolMy  of  Ancient  \a 

l,ini.  KiUtnil-Milal 

410  ;    —  of    IsniallK  395  ; 

/ions    (-Biruni's    -Athantl- 
baqiva,  q.v.,  translated  by 

Curzou,  Lord  —  ,  151 
Cyaxares     (Huvakhshatara), 

Organisation  oi  —  .  240 
Dawidar    ("Keeper    ol    the 

Sactiau).  154 

•It  S3 

Seals").  197 

Churchill,  Sidney  —  ,  283 

Cvrofvrdia,  91 

Dawlatshah.    12.    14,    15.    16. 

Chwolson,  303,  304 

Cyrus,  5,  22,  31,  32,  55.  60,  91. 

346.    347  ;   Source-- 

Cikathauvatish    (fortress    in 
Media),  32 

92,95,96,  113,  121 

447.  449.  45"-  47O.  473 
Dawmatu'l-Jaudal.     Arbitra- 

Circumcision, 333,  335 

tion  of  —  ,  219,  291 

-Citia   o)   Iran,"   (Pahlawi 

D 

Dayaukku  (Ai/icNO/f),  21 

book),  109 

Daylam,   203.    207.   27*1.    313. 

Classics,  37 
"Clients.*    See  Hawaii 

Dabil  (Armenian  prince),  201 
Pakistan.  54-5^1.  270 

364.    44^    463-     See    al*o 
Buwayhidt 

Clement  V.,  Pope  —  ,  40 
Cobbe.  Richard  —  ,  44 
Coinage,  Arabic  —  first  used, 

Uaeva*  (devo».  25.  34,  160 

luli.ik   (Azliil.ih.ik.;.  Zohak), 
114-115.  150 

Dd-od,i6o 
Deioccs,  21 
Democracy  of  Arabs,  130 

230 
Coins,  Pahlawi  —  ,  8,  71 
College  de  France.  40,  41 
Colourlessness,   World  of  —  , 

D.i'i  (pi.  du'at,  propagandist). 
236,  240,  247.  310.  314,  395- 
307.  402,  407.  409.  410.  411- 
4  1  5.  434.    See  also  Mu  Ira 

Demons,  112,  114.  See  Daerat. 
(ind.  linn 
Dervishes.  300  ;  "  Dancing"  — 

440.441 

The  Good  —  (river, 

•n    flf     Pkilototimt 

•column  of  Praise"  of  Mani 

identified  with  Araxcs),  25, 

(CahaMul  -Falaiija)     of 

ch.rans,  161 

M 

-Ghauali.  289 

"Conmnnderof  the  I'nfaith- 

D  a  k  h  m  a       ("  Tower       of 

I  ><•.:!     tcniptv    Dahak.    115: 

itil,"  -Ma  niun  so  called,  307 

flOwce"),  48 

verses  ascribed   to  —  ,   14. 

Commentary,  Old  Penian  — 

-.  266 

See  .ilv>  l>af.-(ii,  Ihmont 

(Cambridge  Codex),  12.  477 

Damascius      (Nco-Platonist 

Devil  -worshippers    (Yatidis), 

Communism,  170.    See  tlat 

i   421 

304 

dak. 

Damascus,  210,  219,  224,  233, 

Devotees  (-'itbbad),  298 

"Companions"  (Ashab),  228, 

245.  280.  282,  283.  342,  445, 

-Uhahabi  (historian).  4tf 

231,  271.  298,  349 
Conquest  Arab  —  of  Persia, 

480 
Damawand,  Mount  —  ,  115 

Dhahin>->-a       (externalists  '  ). 
*I2.  357.  42* 

3.4.6,8.30,90,109,114,130, 
'63.  173-174.    181,    185-208. 

1  Undan  (Zaydan),  407 
Daniel,  Apocryfka  of  —,  479, 

Dhahir  (Zahir)  of  Karyab.  389 
-DhariA.  Abu  Nasr  —  (Sanu- 

212,  275:  Greek  —  ol 

480 

nid  poet).  365 

5  :  see  also  Alexander  the 
Great  :  Norman  —  of  Eng- 

Daniel. Rook  of  —  ,  6l 
1  >an>h  war  the,  dihqan    1  22 

Dhaquln 
Abu  Dli.                     n  7.  »88 

land,  • 
Constantino,  Emperor  —  ,  185 

D.ipir    (M.-ribe)     9  ;     Dapirih 
(kccreUrUl  art),  262 

Dhu  J  i.l.iu  (Himyaiitc  poet), 
175-176 

INDEX 


503 


Dhu'l-lisanayn  (bilingual 
poets),  453,  465 

Dhu'n-Nun  (Sufi),  298,  345, 
357.  424 

D!:u  Nuwas  (poet),  174-176 

Dhu  Oar,  Battle  of  — ,  6,  184, 
186 

Dhu'l-Qarnayn  ("  the  Two- 
horned  "),  119 

Dhu  r-Rumma  (poet),  261 

Dhu  Shanatir  (Himyarite 
King),  174 

Phu'l-  Yaminayn  ("Ambi- 
dexter"), 346 

Dialects,  Persian  — ,  26,  27, 
43-  83-87.  34S,  473,  479 

Di'bil  (poet),  345 

Dieterici,   292,   293,   294,   364, 

369.  379,  3»°,  381 
Dieulafoy,  64 
Dihistan,  448 
Dih-khuda,  448 
Dihqans,   150,  233,   246,   267, 

329 

Diki  (digi)  in  Shapur's  inscrip- 
tion, 153 

Diku'1-Jinn  (poet),  278,  345 

Dilaram  (mistress  of  Bahrain 
Gur),  12 

Dinawar  (town),  313 

*-Dinawari  (historian),  103, 
109,  113,  114,  128,  136,  152, 
169,  203,  229,  238,  237,  23S, 
241,  242,  315,  317,  323,  328, 
397 

Dinkard  (Pahlawi  book),  97, 
105,  157 

Diogenes  (Neo-Platonist  phi- 
losopher), 421 

Dirakht-i-Asitrig  ('"Tree  of 
Assyria ''),  109 

Diraz-dast,  117,  137,  142.  See 
Loiigimanus. 

Div-band  ("Binder  of  De- 
mons," title  of  the  mythical 
Persian  King  Tahmurath), 
80,  112 

Divine  Right,  Theory  of  —  in 
Persia,  128-130,  391 

Diwans,  Organisation  of 
the  — ,  204-205 

Diyar  Bakr,  134 

Dizh-i-sapid  (=  -Bayda,  "the 
White  Castle"),  434 

Dorn,  83.  86,  314 

Dove,  Form  of  White  — 
assumed,  ^14 

Dnzy's  *i.^.un;sme  (Chau- 
vin's  transl.),  188-186,  190, 
204,  211,  220,  224,  231,  231- 
K35,  252,  282,  283-2SS,  230, 
201-232,  298,  239,  300,  SIS- 
SIS:  —  Supplement,  342  ;  — 
Hisioire  des  Mtistilntans 
de  FEspagne,  394 

"  Dragon "  (in  mystical 
poem),  363 

Drangiana,  94 

Druj  (demon),  160 

Dru7.es,  393,  398,  400 

Ibu  Abi  Du'ad(one  of  Afshin's 
judges),  331,  335,  336 


Dualism,  157. 160, 186, 387, 414. 
See  also  Manicharanism 

Du  bayti.    See  Suba'i 

Dubeux,  369 

Dugat,  39,  41,  212 

Dukha  (diki,  q.v.),  153 

Abu  Dulama  (court  jcster),276 

Dutnyatu'l-  Qasr  (of  -Bukh- 
ara), 448 

Dunbawand(Damawand)  115 

Dunckcr,  96 

Ibn  Abi'd-Dunya  (author),  357 

Ibn  Durayd  (philologist),  269, 
366 

-Duruzi  (after  whom  are 
named  the  Dntzes,  q.v.),  400 

Dussaud.  Rene  — ,  395 

Duvitataranam,  92 


Eagle  in  Persian  legend,  121 

Bcoatana  (HagmaUina,  Ha- 
madun),  19,  32,  78 

Eckhart,  297,  421 

Eclipses,  470 

Ecolc  des  Langues  Orientales 
Vivantes  (Paris),  447 

Edessa,  134 

Edward  (King  of  England),  33 

Egypt,  71,  94,  209,  218,  220, 
223,  224,  227,  234,  245,  263, 
266,  272,  298,  339,  352,  367, 
371,  395,  396,  397,  400,  401, 
404 

Egyptian  hieroglyphics,  65  ; 
—  version  of  Alexander- 
legend,  118 

Eight  Gates  of  Paradise,  412 

Flburz  Mountains,  35,  348 

Elephant,  People  of  the  — 
(Ashabu'1-Fil),  178 

Elephant,  Year  of  the  — ,  173, 
174,  178 

Elliott,  J.  B.  — ,  13,  449,  452 

Enicsa  (Hims,  ill  Syria),  218, 
396 

Emmanuel  College,  Cam- 
bridge, 43 

Emmett  (Irish  patriot),  346 

Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  10 

Encyclopedists.  See  Ikh- 
wanit's  Safa. 

England,  4,  5,  37,  245,  301, 
446,  479 

English  people,  50,  118 ; — 
and  Irish.  346  :  —  and 
Scotch,  33  ;  —  in  India,  264 

English  language,  4,  5 

Enneads  (of  Plotinus),  420 

Ephrem,  Patriarch,  399 

Epistles,  Forms  of —  (Pahlawi 
book),  109 

Epos,  Persian  — ,  91,  110-123. 
See  Sliah-iiama 

Eran,  4.    See  Iran,  Persia 

Eran-vej,  25 

Eran-shahr,  115 

Erskine,  48,  54 

Esar-Haddon,  20 

Escoi  ial,  272 


Esoteric  Doctrine.  See  Ba- 
tinis,  Ta'limis,  Ta'wil. 

Esther,  Book  of — ,  20 

Ethe,  Dr.  H.  — ,  13,  301,  340, 
349,  ^416,  450,  452,  453,  456. 
457,  459,  460,  462 

Etymologies,  Persian  popular 
— ,  270 

Euagrius,  168 

Eulalius  (Neo  Platonist  philo- 
sopher), 421 

Euphuism  ('Hunt' l-Badayi'), 
3^9 

Europe,  185 

Eusebius,  21 

Eutychius  (Sa'id  b.  -Batriq), 
169,  366 

Eve,  162 

Evil  Eye,  453 

Evil,  Mystery  of  — ,  440,  441 

Ezra,  6 1 


Fa"al  -  i  -  Mutlaq    ("  Absolute 

Agent,"  i.e.,  God),  419 
Fadlu'llah  -Hurufi,  423 
Fadl  b.  Sahl,  255,  276,  284 
Fadl  b.  Yahya  (the  Barme- 
cide), 257 
Fadl   (poetess  of  Yamama), 

345,  351 

Abu'1-FadI  -Dal'ami,  356 
Abu'1-Fadl  -Sukkari,  476 
Fahlabad  (Pahlapat),  15.  See 

Barbad. 
Fahlaviyyat  (Persian  dialect 

verses);  80,  85 

*-Fakhri  (historian),  183  189, 
194-200,  204  205,  217,  219, 
221-223,  220,  227-223,  230, 
331,  235,  241,  242,  243,  252- 
253,  256,  258,  314,  315,  316, 
322-323 
Fakhru'd-Dawla  (Buwayhid), 

374 
-Faiiihi  (historian  of  Mecca). 

357 
Falaku'd-Din  Muhammad  b. 

Aydamir,  197 
Fatodhaj  (=  Paludak),  a  kind 

of  porridge,  329 
Fana  h'llah  ("  Annihilation  in 

God'),  441,  443 
Fana-  (=  Panah-)  Khusraw, 

44.8 

Fani,  Muhsin-i.  — ,  54 
*Ibmi'l  -  Faqih    -Hamadhani 

(geographei),    14,    15,    358. 

432  433 

Faqirs,  438.    See  Dervishes 
-Farabi  (philosopher)  40,  288, 

SOS,  381 
Abif  1-Faraj  (Rarhebratus,  q.v.), 

322 
Abu'l-Faraj  -Isfahan!  (author 

of  KiUbtt'l-Afliatii),  15,  371 
Abu'l-Faraj  (Harranian),  304 
-Faralawi,  Abu  'Abdi'llah  Mu- 
hammad b.  Musa  — ,  455 
Farasu'n-nawba       ("  Sentry- 
horse"),  317 


504 


INDEX 


Fargard  (chapters  of  Vendi- 
dad,  so  named),  99 

Farhang-i-Pahlavik  (Pahlawi 
glossary),  109 

Ibnu'l-Farid  (mystic  poet), 
419.  438 

Faridu'd-Din  'Attar,  Shaykh 
—  (Persian  mystic  and 
Poet).  See  'Attar. 

Farighuni  Dynasty,  453 

Farr-i-Kayani  ("  Royal  Splen- 
dour"), 128,  143,  144 

-Farra  (grammarian),  277 

Farrash    ("carpet-spreader"), 

354 

Farrukh  Hurmazd  (Ispah- 
badh  of  Khurasan),  182 

Farrukhi  (Persian  poet),  389, 
460,  474 

Farrukh-zad,  104 

Farrukh-zadh-Khusraw  (Sa- 
sanian  King),  174 

Fars  (Parsa,  Persis,  q.v.),  4,  8, 
19,  200,  360,  371,  432,  434, 
448 

Fasa  (near  Shiraz),  170 

Abu'1-Fath  -Busti,  371,  467 

Abu'1-Fath  Mahmud,  253,  371. 
See  Ibn  Kushajim 

-Fatiha  (opening  chapter  of 
-Quran),  98 

Fatima  (daughter  of  the 
Prophet  and  wife  of  'Ali), 
13°.  131,  132,  214.  224.  229, 
239,  350,  392,  397,  39^,  399, 
408 

Fatima  (daughter  of  Abu 
Muslim),  247,  328 

Fatima  of  Nishapur,  434 

Fatimi  (=  Ismn'ili,  q.v.),  407 

Fatimid  Caliphs,  214, 339,  349, 
352,  889,  367,  371,  373,  398, 
396,  397,  398  (their  pedigree 
discussed),  399,  400,  401. 
402,  404,  409,  455.  See  also 
Carmaihians,  Isma'ilis,  Sect 
of  the  Seven 

Fawkes,  Guy  — ,  203 

-Fayyum,  71,  104 

Feridun,  115,  116,  268 

Abu'1-Fida  (historian),  169, 
200 

Fida'is  (Assassins),  424 

*Fihrist,  76,  109,  no,  123,  155. 
156.  157,  159,  163-164,  165, 
247,  268,  278,  302,  308,  310, 
312-313.  315.  323.  324,  327, 
328,  332,  350,  362,  373,  374, 
378,  383-387,  394.  39&,  401, 
407,  416,  418,  420,  428- 
429 

Finance  department  of  early 
Caliphs  modelled  on  Per- 
sian lines,  205 

Fiorillo,  60 

Abu  Firas  (poet),  370,  371,  446 

*Firdawsi,  15,  79,  80,  no,  111, 
114,  118,  122,  123.  136,  138, 
140-142,  143,  144-148,  146. 
147-150,  169,  348,  372,  389, 
437,  452,  456,  460.  See  also 
Sltaluiama 


Fires,    Sacred   — ,   139.     See 

also  Adhar  Gnsliasp.  Frobag 

or  Fanibag  Fire(Kharrad), 

and  Burjin-Mihr 
Fire-temples,  206 
Fire-worshippers.     See   Gue- 

bres,  Zoroastrians 
Firuz-Daylami,  262 
Firuz  (son  of  Abu  Muslim's 

daughter     Fatima),    called 

Kudak-i-datia  ("the   Wise 

Child"),  328 
Firuz -i-Mashriqi      (Persian 

poet).  355,  453 
Firuz,  Mulla  — ,  53 
Fitzgerald,  Lord  Edward  — , 

346 
Five       Principles      of      the 

Isma'ilis,  408 
Fleischer,  169.  453 
Flower,  Samuel  — ,  42,  59 
Fliigel,  157,  159.  161,  163,  164, 

292,  373,  378,  383 
Forbes,  Dr  — ,  472 
Foy,  64 

Francis  V  of  France,  40 
Frank,  Hermann  — ,  417 
Fravarlish  (Phraortes),  21,  32 
Frazer,  44 
French  East  India  Company, 

45 

Frobag  Fire,  139 
Fudayl  b.  'lyad  (or  'Ayyad), 

298,  418.  424.  426 
Fuqaym  (Arab  tribe),  176 
Furat  (general),  238 
"  Furs-i-qadim,"  80 
Fustat,  399 
Fususu't-Hikam  (by  Shaykh 

Muhyiyyu'd-Din      b.     al- 

'Arabi),  420 
Futtaq  (Patecius),  father   of 

Manes,  157 
*Futiihu'l-Buldan.    See  -Ba- 

ladhuri 


Gabra  (=mard),  74 
Gabri  dialect  (Yazd  and  Kir- 
man),  43,  86,  109.    See  also 

Di*tec6 
Gabriel,    Archangel  — ,    316, 

4-7 

Gahs  (Zoroastrian),  5,  52 
Galen  (Jalinus).  305,  381 
Gandara  (country),  94 
Ganneau.  Charles  — ,  76 
Garmapada     (Old      Persian 

month).  33 
Gasanik  (liturgical  portion  of 

Avcsta).  97 
Gathas  (Avesta),  28,  30,  78,  88, 

95,    97  ; — (days    added    to 

year),  100 

Gaub-  (Old  Persian  root),  27 
Gaumata  the  Magian,  31,  32 
Gava  (the  blacksmith),  115 
Gayumarth     (Gayo     Mareta, 

"  Cayumers  "),   55,   56,   112, 

122 


"Gazelle"    (name  given   by 

-Husayn  to    his    wife  tha 

daughter  of  Yazdigird  III), 

131.  229 
Geiger  and  Kuhn's  Grundriss. 

25,  3i,  35,  57.  59,  63,  r>8,  69. 

83,88,96,  108,  in,  138 
Geitiin,  Herr  — ,  472 
Geldner,  57,  69,  95,  96,  97,  98, 

99 
Genealogy  (Ansab),  267,  269, 

270 

Geography,  271 
Gerard  of  Cremona,  40 
Germans,  185,  301  ;  — Mystics 

of  xiv  cent.,  297 
Ghada'iri    of    Ray   (Persian 

poet),  437 

Ghassan,  173,  174,  388 
*Gkayatu'livasail  ila  tna'ri- 

faii'l-awa'il,  455 
Ghaylan  the  Qadari,  283 
Ghazal  form  of  poetry,  472, 

474-  47<5 
Ghazala  ("Gazelle,"  q.v.),  131, 

229 

Ghazna,  448 

Ghaznawi  Dynasty,  341,  353, 

36°,  371,  377,  467-  408,  4/2, 

474 
*-Ghazzali  (Divine  and  Philo 

sopher),   40,    289.    293-234, 

362,  419,  422,  436,  437 
-Ghulat  (plural  of  Ghali :  the 

"extremists"  of  the  Shi'a 

party),    240,    279,   310-311, 

328,  362,  386,  3S6 
Ghumdan  (castle),  176 
Ghur,  376  ;  Dynasty  of  — ,  449 
Gibb,  E.  J.  W.  — ,  389,  390, 

423,  444-  465 
Gibbon's  Decline   and   Fall, 

154,  167,  168,  431 
Gibraltar,  204 
Gilaki  dialect,  348 
Gilan,  83,  86,  364,  368 
Ginza    (Book   of    the    Man- 

daeans),  302 
Gladwin,  389 
Glover  (Persianized  as  Gul- 

avar),  270 
Gnosis,  424 
Gnosticism,  96,  159,  161,  202, 

432 

Gobineau,  64,  130 
God,  Persian  Kings  regarded 

as  — ,  128 

Godef  rey  de  Bouillon,  480 
*de  Goeje,   Professor  — ,  TO, 

119,  270,  272,  276,  360,  3*7, 

372.  373,  3'H,  396,  397.  39», 

399,  401,  402,  403,  404,  405, 

407.  432,  434 
*Goldziher,  190,  212,  260  263, 

267-270,  272,  373,  336,  35a 
„  357,  358 

Gordian,  Emperor  — ,  420,  421 
Gospels.  113,  401 
Goupil  (commandant  at  Poa- 

dichery),  46 
Gozan,  River — .  ao 
Graf,  423 


505 


Grammarians.  Early  Arab  — , 
275-278.  See  also  SibouviyA) 

Gravesend,  49 

Greece,  Greeks,  4,  5,  8,  9,  20, 
37,  39.  58.  61,  70,  79,  80,  91, 
117,  127,  128,  129,  140,  167, 
169,  261,  262,  266,  269,  271, 
277,  284,  288,  292,  301,  304, 
3°5.  SO6-  325,  345.  363.  382, 
426,  446,  472 

Grotcfend,  59,  60,  62,  63,  70 

Guebrcs  (Gabrs),  27,  86.  See 
Magians,  Zoronslrians 

Guftan  ("to  say"),  27 

Guirgass,  169.  See  -Dittawari 

Gujas:ak  Abalish  iiamak,  104, 
107 

Gujerati,  9 

Gular,  Castle  — ,  146 

Gulisttin  (of  Sa'di),  341 

Gulnar,  143 

*Gnlshan-i~Raz  (of  Mahmud 

Shabistari),  282,  444 
vGunde-Shapur,   10,    158,    167. 
See  also  Junde-Shapur 

Gurgan,  16,  35,  367,  458,  470 

Gushasp,  Adhar  —  (Sacred 
Fire),  139 

Gushnaspdeh,  174 

Gushtasp  (Vishtaspa),  25,  28, 
61,  95,  116,  118,  123,  142, 
460 ;  Shahnama-i-  —  (= 
Pahlawi  Yaikar-i-Zariran), 
108 

Gushyar  (astronomer),  368 

Gutschmid,  96,  178 

Guyard,  Stanislas  — ,  54,  396, 
399,  4°7.  4°8 


H 

H  (Persian)  =  S  (Sanskrit).  34 

Ha  (or  baiti,  the  name  given 
to  the  divisions  of  the 
Yasna),  99 

Ha  (=  5  =  Bab),  100 

Haarbrucker  (translator  of 
Shahristani,  q.v),  169 

Habib  b.  Maslarna  -Fihri,  201, 
272 

Habor,  20 

-Hadi  ('Abbasid  Caliph),  254, 
259,  307,  317 

Hadith  (tradition  of  the  Pro- 
phet), 80,  85,  225,  283,  285, 
341.  361,  389,  428,  437,444 

Hadramawt,  180 

Haetumant,  35 

*Hafidh  (Hafiz,  the  poet),  80, 
85,  225,  283,  285,  341,  361, 
389,  428,  437,  444 

Hafsa,  214,  343 

Haftaii-bokht  (Haftawad), 
137.  MS,  146 

Haft  Iqlim,  452 

Hagmatana,  19,  78.  See 
Ecbatana,  Hawaiian 

Ha'ar  (in  Bahrayn),  201,  354  ; 
"  to  carry  dates  to  — "  (  = 
"  to  carry  coals  to  New- 
castle"), 456 


Haji-abad,  Shapur's   inscrip- 
tion at—,  93,  151-153 
Hajjaj  b.  Yusuf,  205,  206,  230, 

234,  283 

Hajji  Baba  (by  Morier),  423 
Hakam      b.      AbiVAs      b. 

Umayya,  215 
Hakhamanish  (Achscmenes), 

63.  92 
Hakim.itu'd  -  Dahr        ("the 

World-Wise"),  162 
-Hakim  bi-amri'llah  (Fatimid 

Caliph  and  Deity  of  Druze 

scot),  398-400 
Halah,  20 
Halani-stones,  267 
Halevy,  29,  64 
-Hallaj,    Husayn    b.   Mansur 

(Suli  heretic),  361,  433.    See 

Husayn  b.  Mansur 
Ham  (sou  of  Noah),  116 
Hamadan.    19,  20,  22,  78,  79, 

83  (dialect),   158,  313.    See 

also  Efbatana,  Hagtnatana 
-Hamadhaui  (geographer),  14, 

15,  432.  433 
-Hamadhani,  Badi'u'z-Zaman 

—  (author    of   Afaqamaf). 

463-464 

Hamasa,  278.  447 
Hiiiiia-atu'iHi-Dlinrafa,  454 
Hamdan,  House  of  — ,  446 
Hamdan  b.  -Ash'ath-Qarmat, 

396,  397,  401,  408,  410.    See 

Carmathians 
Hamdu'llah  Mustawfi    -Qaz- 

wini  (Persian  historian  and 

geographer),  15,  27,  80,  85 
Hamdun  b.  Isma'il,  336 
Hamid     (wazir     of     -Muq- 

tadir),  430-432 
Hammad  (father  of  Manes), 

155 
Hammad  b.  Sabur  -Rawiya 

(editor  of  Mu'allatjaf),  276 
von  Hammer,  369,  407 
Hamra  (minister  of  -Hakim 

bi-amri'llah),  400 
Hamza  of  Isfahan  (historian). 

H6,  123.  109,  269"  

Abu  Hamza  (Kharijite  rebel), 

263 
Hanafi    sect  or  school,  276, 

294.  295 

-Hanafiyya  (wife  of  'Ali),  214 
Ibnu'l-Hanafiyya      (son     of 

above),  214,  228,  229,  239, 

392 
Ibn  Hanbal  (founder  of  Han- 

balite  school),  273,  284,  291, 

295,  344,  345,  381 
Hanbali  sect   or  school,  294, 

295.  36  r,  364 

+  Handhala  of  Badghis  (Per- 
sian poet),  346,  355,  452 

Abu  Hanifa-Nu'nian(founder 
of  Hanafi  sect,  276.  280, 
294-299,386 

Hapta  -  Hendu  ("Seven 
Rivers  "),  35 

Haralnvaiti  (Arachosia),  35 

Haraiva  (Herat),  94 


Harar  (daughter  of  Yardigird 

III),  229.    Scc"GazelU* 
Harb  b.  Umayya,  215 
-Hariri  (author  of  Maqatnal), 

464 
-Harith  b.   'Abdu'llah   -Ja'di 

(poet),  242 
de  Harlez,  22,  28,  68 
Haroyu  (Herat),  35 
Harpers,  16,  17,  18 
Harran     (Carrh*),     302-306, 

35*.  372,  387 
-Harthami,     Abu     Nasr   — 

(Samanid  poet).  365 
Harun  b.  'Isa  b.  -Mansur.  ^i 
Harun      -Rashid      ('Abbasid 

Caliph),   13,   163,   168,    210, 

252-254,  259,  276,  277,   305, 

3°7,  317 
Harura,  222 
-Hasan  b.  'Ali  (second  Imam 

of  the  Shi'a),  132,  133,  214, 

224,  228,  229,  392, 409 
-Hasan  b.  'Ali  -Utrush  (Say- 

yid  of  Tabaristan),  207,  359' 
-Hasan  -Basri,  272,  281,  298 

299.  432 
Hasan  -Sabbah  (founder   of 

Assassins),  408 
-Hasan  b.  Sahl  (father-in-law 

of  -Ma'mun),  255 
-Hasan  b.  Zayd  (called  Jali- 

bu'l-liijara,      Sayyid       of 

Tabaristan),  348' 
Abu'l-Hasau     -Ash'ari,     283. 

See  -Ash'ari 
Abu'l  -  Hasan       Muhammad 

(grandson  of  Simjur),  466 
Abu'l-Hasan  -Musawi,  365 
Hashim,  214,  239 
Hashim,  b.  Hakim,  318.    See 

-Muqanna' 

Abu  Hashim  the  Sufi,  298,  417 
Abu  Hashim  (son  of  Ibnu'l- 
Hanafiyya).  239 
Hashimi(Hashimite),  213,214, 

216,  218,  221,  246,  431 
Hashimiyya  (sect),  239 
Hashimiyya  (town),  316 
Hashishi  (Assassin),  408 
Hashwiyya  (sect),  386 
Hastings,  Battle  of  — ,  95 
Hatak     Mansarik     (philoso- 
phical portion  of  Avesta), 

97.  108 

Hatim-Ta'i,  265 
Abu  Hatim  -Sijistani,  350 
Hatokht-nosk,  97,  102 
Haug,  Dr.  Martin  — ,  57,  59, 

68,  70,  72,  73,  74.  77,  81,  103, 

109,  151,  152,  153,  157 
Haumavarka,  94 
Ibn  Hawqal  (geographer),  37» 
Haydar  (=  A/shin,  q.v.),  334 
Haydara  (disciple  of  -Hallaj), 

43i,  435 

-Haythani  b.  Mu'awiya,  316 
Hayyan  the  druggist('Abbasid 

propagandist),  236.  239 
Ibn  Hazm,  279 
Hebrew  character,  9,  37,  103, 

479 


506 


INDEX 


Hebrew. language.  40,  41,  42, 

479 

Hellenism,  Influence  on  Per- 
sia of  — .  6 
Hellenopolis     ('EXAiji/ojro- 

*'f),  304 

Helmand  River,  35 
Henry  III  of  France,  41 
Herat,  16,  35,  94,  123,  242,  244, 

317,  347,  355 
Herbads  (order  of  Zoroastrian 

priesls),  309 
Herodotus,  20,  21,  23,  26,  33, 

78.  91.  92 
Hezekiah,  66 
Hieroglyphics,  65 
-Hijaz,  184,  196,  243,  272,  314, 

448 
Hikniatul-Ishraq  (by  -Suhra- 

wardi),  423 
Himalayas,  185 
Hims  (Einesa),  218,  396 
-Himyari,  -Sayyid  — ,  276 
Himyarites,  175,  178,  179,  181, 

271 

Hindus,  34,  114 
Hippocrates,  305 
Hira,  174,  179,  262,  264,  306, 

388 
Hisham    (Umayyad  Caliph), 

164,  240,  24.:;,  266,  283 
Hisham  b.  -Kalbi  (historian), 

275.  277 
*Ihn  Hisham  (biographer  of 

Piophet),  128-129, 188-188, 

jg3,  203,  262,  269,  272,  276, 

277 
Historical  science.  Origin  of 

—  amongst  Arabs,  270-273 
Hitzig,  64 

Hoffmann,  Georg  — ,  134 

Homes,  H.  A.  — ,  293 

Horn,  Dr.  Paul—,  86, 340, 450, 

457-  459,  474 

Hoshang,  Dastur — ,109 
Hoshea,  20 
Houris,  107 
Houtsma,  169,  464 
Houtum-Schmdler,    83,    206, 

207 
Huart,  Clement   — ,    26,  27, 

83 

Hubaysh,  306 
Hiibschmann,  64 
Hud  ! prophet),  387 
Hudhayl    (Arab    tribe),    192, 

193  ;  "Diwan  of  — ,  357 
Hughes,  Dictionary  of  Islam, 

427.  444 
Hujjat  ("  Proof,"  a  title  used 

by  Isma'ilis),  409,  410,  414 
Huijat-i-Khurasan    (title    of 

Hasir-i-Klntsraw,  q.v.).  399 
Hulagu  Khan  (Mongol),  6,  209, 

210,  286 
Hulul  (Incarnation,  q.v.),  279, 

310-311,  328 

Huma  (mythical  bird),  121 
Humay  (or  Khumani),  Queen 

—  U7 

Humayma  (place   in  Syria), 

236,  243 


Hunayn  b.    Ishaq   of    Hira, 

306,  351,  356 
Hunt.  Dr.  —  (of  Oxford),  50, 

51 

Abu  Hurayra,  272 
Hurmazd(Hurmuzd,Hurmuz, 

Hurmizd),    name    of     the 

Planet  Jupiter,  461 
Hurmazd  I,  138,  154,  157,  158, 

161 

Hurmazd  IV,  174,  181 
Hurmazd  V,  174 
Hurmuzan,  215,  266 
Hurufi,  Sect,  26,  43,  86,  405, 

423 
-Husayn  b.  'AH  (third  Imam), 

130-133,  SH,  224,  228-228, 

229,  239,  230,  322,  3*3,  392, 

393.  409 
-Husayn  b.   Mansur  -Hallaj, 

361-363,  367,  423,  428-437 
Abu'l-Husayn-Basri  (Mu'tazi- 

lite),  289 

Abu'l-Husayn  b.  Paris  (philo- 
logist). 269 
Abti'l  -  Husnyn       -Mu'ayyad 

bi'llah,  Sayyid  — ,  348 
Hushang  (legendary  King  of 

Persia),  54.  112, 
Hushangji,  Dastur — ,  81 
Husn-i-ta'lil   (poetical    aetio- 
logy-), 4^5 

HHSt-aram-yasht,  98,  99 
Hukht,     Huvarsht,     Humat 

("  Good     Words,"     "  Good 

Deeds,"  "  Good  Thoughts"), 

165 
Huvakhshatara     (Cyaxares), 

21,  33 
Huzvaresh,  7,  68,  71,  73,  78, 

77,  80,  81,  103 
Hyde,  Dr.  — ,  19,  41,  42,  43. 52, 

59.6o 
Hyrcania  (Vehrkana,  Gurgan), 

26,35 
Hystaspes  (Vishtaspa,  Gush- 

tasp),  61,  92,  95,  96,  121 


la%Mfii  (Yaksum,  q.v.,  Abys- 
sinian King  of  Yaman),  178 

Iblis,  320.    See  Devil. 

Ibnatu'1-Hirs  ("Daughter  of 
Desire").  162 

Ibrahim  (Patriarch).  Sec 
Abraham. 

Ibrahim  (Umayyad  Caliph), 
215,  3i8 

Ibrahim  ('Abbasid  Imam), 
240,  242,  243,  254 

Ibrahim-Mawsili  (minstrel), 
345 

Ibrahim  b.  Adham  (Sufi),  298, 
418,  424,  425 

Ibrahim  b.  Hilal  -Sabi  (his- 
torian), 372 

Ibrahim  b.  -Mahdi  ('Abbasid 
prince),  254 

Ibrahim  b.  Sinan  b.  Thabit 
b.  Qurra,  304,  367 


Ibrahim  -Sindi.  165 

Ideograms.  65-67.  See  also 
Hitzvaresh 

Idolatry,  Sufi  explanation  of 
— ,  443-444 

-I]',  279 

Ijma'u's-Sunnat,  391 

Ikhshid,  House  of  — ,  397 

Ikhwanu's-Safa  ("  Brethren 
of  Purity"),  292-294,  339, 
364,  378-381 

Abu  'Ikrima  the  Saddler 
('Abbasid  da'i),  236,  239 

Ilah  (God),  Attitudes  of  wor- 
shippers in  Prayer  spell  — , 
412 

Ilaqi  (poet),  468 

Ihad,  153 

Iltatmish,  Shamsu'd-Din  — , 
450 

'Imadu'd-Dawla  (Buwayhid), 
360,  364 

•Imadu'd-Din  -Katib  -Isfa- 
hani  (historian),  448 

Imamate,  Doctrine  of  — ,  296. 
See  Shi'ites,  Sect  of  the 
Set-en,  Sect  oj  tlie  Twelve, 
(jlmlal,  &c. 

Iinamiyya  (sect),  386.  See 
Shi'iles,  &c. 

Imams,  130,  134,  214,  224. 
229,  233  233,  246,  252,  284, 
296,  310-311,  3>3,  315,  358. 
391-415;  —  of  'Abbasids, 
237  ;  — •  of  Stinnis,  276,  277, 
295  ;  —  of  History,  361 

Imperialism,  232,  235,  328 

Abu  'Imran  (Jawidan  b. 
Suhrak),  325,  326,  328 

Incarnation  (hulul,  q.v.),  279, 
313,  3i6,  318,  320,  322,  327, 
362,  363,  396,  398,  399,  428, 
429,  435 

India,  Persian  literature  of 
— ,3;  —  and  Zoroaster,  34  , 
Influence  of  —  in  forma- 
tion of  Sufi  doctrines,  300- 
301,  419,  426,  442  ;  Man-els 
of  —,  368 ;  Natives  of  — 
who  contributed  to  Arabic 
literature,  306,  371  ;  — 
invaded  by  Mahmad.  376  ; 
—  visited  by  Manes,  158, 

159,  163 ; by  -Hallaj, 

431,  434,  435;  —  Office 
Library,  450  ;  minor  refer- 
ences, 42,  45,  46,  54,  79,  04, 
102,  no,  138,  140,  179,  227, 
258,  278,  306,  382,  387 

Indianists,  300,  301,  419 

Indians  and  Iranians,  33.  34, 
35,  3fi,  37.  56,  in.  113 

Injil.    See  Gospel 

Inquisition  against  Mani- 
chreans,  163 

lonians,  94 

Iqna'  (work  on  Prosody 
by  the  Sahib  Istna'il  b. 
'Abbad),  374 

'Iqdaniyya  (Council  of  Car- 
ID  athiaus),  404 

Iraj  (son  of  Fcridun),  115,  u6 


INDEX 


507 


Iran,  4,  5,  115. 139 ;  —  (proper 
name  =  Arphaxad),  114, 128. 
See  also  Persia 

Iranophiles,  269 

•Iraq,  19,  131.  163,  195,  196, 
199,  219,  233,  239,  251,  266, 
272,  282,  446,  448,  465,  466 

'Iraqi  (Persian  poet),  420 

'Irfan  (Gnosis),  424 

Irish  patriots,  346 

•Isab.  Musa('Abbasid  Prince), 

354 

•Isa  b.  'AH  (Christian  phy- 
sician), 368 

'Isa  b.  la'far  (Shi'ite),  343 

'Isa  b.  'Muhammad  (general), 
323 

'Isa  b.  'Umar  -Thaqafi  (gram- 
marian). 275 

Isfahan  (Ispahan),  4,  19,  79, 
83,  139,  203,  311,  313,  315, 
364,  376,  448 

Isfandiyar  (Isfandiyadh),  116, 
117,  142,  147,  150,  269 

Ibn  Isfandiyar,  348,  470 

Isfara'ini,  Snaykh  Abu'1-Mud- 
hartar  Tahir — ,  322 

Ishaq  b.  Alptagin,  372 

Ishaq  (great  -  grandson  of 
Thabitb.  Qurra),  304 

Ishaq  b.  Hassan-Khurraini 
(Persian  Shu'ubi),  268 

Ishaq  b.  Hunayn,  306,  363 

Ishaq  b.  Ibrahim  (governor 
of  Baghdad),  284,  330,  334 

Ishaq  b.  Ibrahim  -Mawsili 
(musician),  345 

Ishaq  "the  Turk,"  247,  313, 

3«4 

Abu  Ishaq  (biographer  of  the 
Prophet),  263,  272,  276,  277 

Abu  Ishaq-  Farsi  (Samanid 
poet),  365 

Abu  Ishaq  (of  Shiraz,  gastro- 
nomic poet),  85 

Ishinael,  409 

Isidore  (Neo-Platonist  philo- 
sopher), 421 

Islam,  Introduction  into  Per- 
sia of  — ,  8,  ii,  36,  90,  181, 
194-208  ;  attitude  of  —  to- 
wards Magians,  113  ;  Mani- 
cha-ar.s  in  — ,  159,  162,  163  ; 
—  contrasted  with  Arab 
paganism.  185-124, 212-213; 
meaning  of  — ,  384 

Isma'ilis,  86,  101, 130,  159,  172, 
268,  295.  3".  312,  339,  352, 
359,  3*2.  336,  391-415.  421- 
423,  437.  455,  45°.  See  also 
Camialhians,  Fatitnids, 
Ghulat,  Sect  of  the  Seven, 
fee. 

Isma'il,   Imam  — ,  296,   393, 

396,  407,  409 

Isma'il  b.  'Abbad.    See  -Sahib 
Isma'il  b.  Ahmad  (Samanid), 

348,  354.  4«> 
Isma'il  b.  Yasar,  266 
liiiaJ  (of  Traditions),  271 
Ispa  (dialect-word  for  dog), 

96 


Ispahbads  of  Tabaristan,  8, 

200,334 

Israfil  (Angel),  427 
Istakhr   (Stakhar    Papakan), 

19.  432 
-Jstajchri    (fltogragher^  368, 

isfjghn'a'i,  Abu'l-  Mudhaffar 
Nasr  — ,  467 

Islikhraj  ("squeezing"  dis- 
missed governors),  233 

ioroc  (  =  chetak),  153 

Ithna-'ashariyya.  See  Sect  of 
t!ie  Twelve" 

Izads  (Angels),  100,  101 

'Izzu'd-  Din  of  Haniadan 
(dialect  poet),  86 


J 

Tabalqa,  246 

Jabir  b.  Hayyan,  274,  276 

Jackson,  Professor  A.  V.  W. 

— .  30,  31 
Jacquet,  64 
Ja'd  b.  Dirham,  164 
-Ja'di,  -Harith  b.    'Abdu'llah 

— ,  242 

la 'far  b.  Abi  Talib,  187 
Ja'far  -Barmaki  (the  Banne- 

cide),  254,  257 
Ja'far  -Sadiq,  Imam  — ,  296, 

393-  394-  396.  4°9 
Abu  Ja'far  ('Abbasid  Imam), 

240,  243 
Abu    Ja'far    b.    -'Abbas    b. 

-Hasan,  365 
Abu    Ja'far    Muhammad    b. 

Musa  -Musawi,  365 
-Jahidh,  'Amr  b.  Bahr — ,  15, 

no,  165,  260,  267,  268,  306, 

351 
-Jahiliyyat,  100,  261.    See  also 

Arabian  Heatiieiiisin 
Abu'l-  Jahm  (Wazir),  257 
Jahwar  b.   Marrar  (general), 

3H 
Jalalu'd-  Din  Rumi,  294,  389, 

416,  423,  434,  437,  441,  444 
Jalibu'l-hijara,  Hasan  b.  Zayd 

(Sayyid  of  Taharistan),  348 
alinus.    See  Galen 
alula,  199,  203,  204 
amasp  (brother  of  Kawadh), 

171 
Jamasp-tiamak         (Pahlawi 

work),  107 
Vatnliara   (of    Ibn   Durayd), 

366 

*Jami  (Persian  poet  and  mys- 
tic), 293,  299,  362,  417,  418, 

420,  423-426,  437-439,  441- 

442,  144,  456,  457 
JFamftt't-       Taivarikh        (of 

Rashidu'd-  Din  Kadlu'llah), 

392,  393 
Jamshid  (  =  Yima  of  Avesta), 

56,  80,  112-114,  268,  388 
Janashk.  470 
-Januabi  (Carniathiau  leader), 

359,  367,  4°2.  4°3,  4°5 


Taphet,  116 

Jargh  (place),  3* 

-Jarrah,  Abu  'Ubayda  — ,  297 

Ibnu'l-Jarrah,  261 

yaivami'u'l-     Hikayat      (of 

'Awfi),  283 
Jawidan-i-Kabir         (Hurufi 

book),  26,  27,  86 
Jawidan  (master  of  Babak), 

325-328 
*Ibnu'l-Jawzi  (historian),  434, 

435 

iaxartes  (river),  204 
azir  (in  sense  of   mihman- 
dar),  326 

Jerusalem,  378 
esus   Christ,    113,    154,   162, 
163,  288,  311,  387,  408,  409, 
427,  432,  434 

"Jesus  Patabilis"  (of  Gnos- 
tics), 161 
Jewish-Persian,   9,  277,   179- 

Jews,  4,  20,  29,  39,  106,  113, 
127,  151,  288,  303,  382,  384, 
388,  395 :  religion  of  — 
hated  by  Manes,  158,  162  ; 

—  in  Yemen,  175  ;  —  under 
Islam,   200-20 1,    232,    290, 
3",    343-344:    apocryphal 
books  of  — ,  241  ;  —  and 
heathen    Arabs,    261,    274 ; 

—  in  Arabic  and  Persian 
literature,  276,  306,  479-480 

Jibril  b.  Bokht-Yishu1,  367 
linn  (genies),  112,  431 
lizya  (poll-tax),  164,  201,  234 
iohn  the  Baptist,  409 
[ohn  of  Damascus,  282 
[ohn  Malalas,  169,  172 
[ones,  Sir  William  — ,  49-58, 

"3 
de     Jong.      See     Lata'ifu'l- 

Ma'arif 
Joseph  II.,  153 
Jubba  (garment),  297 
-Jubba'i  (Mu'tazilite  doctor), 

291 

Judaism,  162,  301 
"  Juden-hasse,"  29 
Julahaof  Abhar  (dialect  poet), 

86 

Julian  the  Apostate,  304 
-Jumahi,  Abu  'Abdi'llah 

Muhammad  b.  Sallam,  278, 

344.  447 
Junayd   of     Baghdad    (Sufi). 

298,  363,  367.  427,  428,  434, 

436 
Junaydi,       Abu       'Abdi'llah 

Muhammad    b.   Abdullah 

(bi-lingual  poet),  453,  467 
Junde-Shapur,    10,    158,    167, 

305,  344.    See  also  Gnnde- 

Shapur 

Jupiter  (planet),  458,  461 
Jurjan,  448.  See  Gurgan 
"  Just  King."  166.  See 

Nushirwan 
Justi,  68,  91,  314,  325 
Justinian,  167,  421 
Jutes,  5 


508 


INDEX 


-Juybari,  Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim 
b.  Muhammad  -Bukhari  — 
(Persian  poet),  459 

Ju-yi-Muliyan,  16 

K 

Ka',  Amir  — ,  86 

Ka'ba,  177,  226,  231,  314,  403 

Kabul,  35 

Kafar  (for  Kafir),  244 

Kafi  of  Karaj  (dialect  poet), 
86 

Kafi  of  -Kulayni  (Shi'ite  theo- 
logical work),  367 

Kafir-kubat,  244 

Kaikobad  Adarbad  Nosher- 
wan,  9,  1 08 

Kalam.  See  Scholastic  Philo- 
sophy. 

Kalbatakin  (Turkish  officer), 

342 

Ibnu'l-Kalbi    (historian    and 

genealogist),  272,  275,  277 
Kalila    and    Dimna,     Book 

of  — ,  _?6,    no,    275,    332  ; 

RudagrB'f'ersian    version, 

457,  474 
-Kalini      (-Kulayni :     Shi'ite 

divine),  '67 
Kalwadha   397 
Kam-baksh,     Cambyses    ex- 
plained as  — ,  55 
Kambujiya,    (Cambyses),    31 

55,  92 

Kamil  of  -Mubarrad,  221 
"Kamilu'l-Tawarikh  (of 

Ibnu'l-Athir),  360-361,  375 
Kanheri  Buddhist  Caves,  103 
Kanzu'l  -  Ihya  (Manichaean 

book),  156 

Kar-  (Persian  root),  27 
Karach.  360 
Karde  (divisions  of  Vispercd 

so  called),  99 
Karim  b.  Shahriyar,  207 
Karkas,  94 
*K<zr-natnak-i-Aftakhshatr-i- 

Fapakano,  9,  106,  108,  122, 

136,  137-151 
Karshuni  (Arabic  written   in 

Svriac  character),  8 
Kas'han,  26,  27,  80,  83,  86,  315 
Kashifi,    Husayn   Wa'idh  — , 

52 
Kashsh  (in  Transoxiana),  244, 

321 
-Kaslishaf  (of  -Zamakhshari), 

289 

KfiOapoi  (=  Ke'^er),  160 
*Katibi  of  Nishapur  (Persian 

poet),  225 
Ka'us,  Dastur  — ,  47  ;   Mulla 

—   53 
Ka'us,  Kay — (mythical  king), 

»6 
Kawad,    134,    169,    171.    See 

also  Qubad. 
Kawaem  Hwareno  (=  Farr- 

i-Kayani,  or  "  Royal  Splen- 
dour"), 143 


Kawa  Husrawa,  55.  See  Kay 
Khusraw. 

Kawakimardan  (near  Merv), 
3i8 

Kawatan,  Khusraw-i ,  107. 

See  iVushinvan. 

Kayani  Dynasty,  115-117, 119, 
121,  128 

Kay  Ka'us  (legendary  king). 
116 

Kay  Ka'us  (Ziyarid  prince), 
471 

Kay  Qubad,  116 

Kayt  (or  Kayd),  King  of 
India),  138 

Kazarun,  364 

Kazimirski,  A.  de  Biberstein 
— .  331.  340,  369.  452 

Kaysaniyya.(Slii'a  sect),  392 

Kenoma,  408,  410 

Kerbela,  226-228,  231,  291, 
343 

Kern,  64 

Keshe  (dialect  of  — ),  27 

Kessler,  155 

Ketzer(=  KaBapoi),  160 

*"  Keys  of  the  Sciences,"  372 

Khabbazi  of  Xishapur  (Per- 
sian poet),  468 

-Kha'.a.    See  Kenoma 

Ibn  Khalawayh  (gramma- 
rian). 370 

Ibn  Khaldun,  76,  275 

Khalid  b.  'Abdu'llah  -  Qasri, 
163,  233,  239 

Khalid  b.  Barmak,  258 

Khalid  b.  Fayyad(Aiab  poet), 
14.  17 

Khalid  b.  Yazid  (Umayyad 
Prince).  274 

Khalifa.  Khilafat  See  Caliph, 
Caliphate 

Khalil  b.  Ahmad  (gramma- 
rian), 275,  276 

*Ibn  Khal'.ikan  (biographer, 
cited  generally  in  de  Slane's 
translation),  208.  267,  279, 
298,  299,  316,  320-321,  324, 
330,  33i,  363,  370,  374,  445, 
448,  470 

Khanikoff,  206 

Kbaqan  of  Turks,  163,  268, 
3i8 

Khaqani  (Persian  poet),  389, 
437 

Kharidatu'd-Dahr  (antho- 
logy), 448 

Kharijites  (Khawarij),  212, 
220-224,  228,  231-232,  240, 
263,  279.  280,  330,  386 

Kharrad  (=  Frobag)  Fire,  140 

Khartum,  245 

Khash  (brother  of  Afshin).  334 

Khatt-i-badi'  (Babi  writing), 
165 

Khattabiyya  sect,  396 

Khayr  -  i  -  Mahd  ("  Absolute 
Good  "),  438 

Khayyam.  See  'Umar  Khay- 
yam 

-Khayzuran  (wife  of  Caliph- 
Mahdi).  417 


K  h  a  z  i  m      b.      Khuzayma 

(general),  317 
Khifara  (blackmail  levied  by 

Carmathians),  359 
Khorda  Avesta,  101 
Khouabir,   Cups   with    Man- 

daean    inscriptions    found 

at  — .  302 
Khrafstar  (unclean  animals  so 

called),  160 

Khshaeta  (=  -shid),  113 
Khshayarsha,    56,    92.      See 

Xerxes 
Khshayathiya  Khshayathiya- 

nam  (=  Shahanshah,  "  King 

of  Kings"),  66 
Khudliay  -  natnak,    107,    123. 

See    also    Shahnama    and 

Kings,  Book  of  — 
Khujistan,  355 
Khumani  (Humay,  Queen — ), 

117 
Khurasan,  13,  35,  146,  148,  164, 

189,  200,  207,  237,  239-244, 

247,  252,  258,  263,  265,  276, 

278,  310,  316,  319,  321,  329, 

340,  342,  346,  351,  352,  355, 

365,  367,  371,  372,  397,  399, 

432,  434,  445-448,  45°,  45i. 

458,  465 

Ibn    Khurdadhbih    (geo- 
grapher), 35,  344 
Khurra-i-Khuda'ih.  See  Farr- 

i-Kayani 
Khurra  -  Khusraw  (satrap  of 

Yemen),  262 
Khurrama  (wife  of  Mazdak), 

313 
Khurratni  sect,  240,  246,  247, 

311-313,   315-  323-325,  328, 

387 

Khurram-abad.  315 
Khurra-zadh  Khusraw,  174 
Khusrawani  (minstrel),  18 
*Khusrawani,   Abu  Tahir  — 

(Samanid  poet),  466-467 
Khusra\vi    of    Sarakhs,    Abu 

Bakr  Muhammad  b.  'Ali  — 

(poet  of  Qabus  b.  Wasnm- 

gir)   453.  466 
Khusraw  Firuz,  448 
Khusraw  Kawadhan  and  his 

Page,  Story  of  — ,  9 
Khusraw  -  i  -  Mihr  -  Gushnasp 

(Sasanian  king),  174 
Khusraw    Parwiz    (Sasanian 

king),  6.    See  Panviz 
Khutba,  244 
Khuttal      (in     Transoxianat 

244 

Kbuzayna  (Governor  of  Khu- 
rasan), 237 

Khuzistan,  19,  305.  370,  402 
Khvctu-  das     (next  -  of  -  kin 

marriages).  117   309 
Khwaf,  308,  355 
Khwarazm,  94,  446,  448 
-Khwarazmi,   Abu    'Abdi'llah 

Muhammad   b.   Ahmad   b. 

Yusuf  —   (author  of  ifa- 

fatihw'l-'ulum,     q.v.),     372. 

378 


INDEX 


509 


Kimiva-i-Sa'adat  (of  -Ghaz- 

zali),  293 
-Kindi     (Arab     philosopher), 

278,  288,  356,  357,  372,  381 
"King  of    the   Paradises    of 

Light,"  162,  165 
Kim's,  Book  of  — ,  135.    See 

Snahnama 
Kirman,   27,  83,  87,  105,  109, 

138,  145,  207,  343,  347,  364, 

371,  448 

-Kisa'i  (grammarian),  276,  277 
Kisa'i    (Persian    poet),    368, 

452 
Kisra  (=  Khusraw,  Chosroes), 

127-129.    See  also  Nushir- 

wan 
Kisra  (Khusraw)  son  of  Hur- 

mazd,  268 

-Kisra wi  (historian),  no 
Kitabu  l-abniya  'an  haqa'iqfl- 

adwiya,  478 

'l-Aghani,   15,   245,    262, 

37L  447 

'l-Awa'il,  356 

'l-Iiayan      wa't-Titryan, 

260,  351 

'l-Bukha!a,  267,  351 

'l-Buldan    (of    Ya'qubi, 

q.v.),  314.  321 

'LFutuk,   152,   357.    See 

-Baladhuri 

'l-Hayawan  (of  -Jahidh, 

q-v),  15 

'i-Huda  wa't-Tadbir,  156 

'l-Ishara      bi  -  'ilmi'l- 

'Ibara,  274 

— —  'l-Jawami',  274 

'LMa'arif  (of    Ibn    Qu- 

tayba,  q.v.),   169,   277,  324, 

357,  887-388 

'l-Mahasin  wa'l-Addad, 

15-18 

man    la    yahdurnhu'l- 

Faqih,  375 

'l-Masalik  wa'l-Mamalik, 

344 

'LMilal  (of  -Shahristani, 

q.v.),  169,  220,  396,  420 

'l-Uu'ammarin.  350 

-t-Mushtarik  (of   Yaqut, 

q.v.),  3*1 

Rahatfs-Suditr,  85 

'sh-Shubuhat  (of  Yaqul), 

321 

—  '/-Toy,  372 

't-Tanbih    wa'l-Ishraf 

(of  -Mas'udi,  q.v.),  119,  127, 
328,  368 

'l-'Uyun  (of  Ibn  Miska- 

wayhi),  362,  428,  430 
'Ir-Yamini,  457 

'a-Zuhd,  274 

Kitchener,  Lord  — ,  245 
Kleuker,  57 

Knots,  Blowing  on  — ,  366 

Knowledge,  Travel  in  search 
of  — ,  271,  272 

Krehl,i88 

•von  Kremer,  90,  201,  203, 
206,  211,  213,  220,  221,  234, 
247,  255,  969,  261,  267,  378, 


279,  280,  282,  288,  800,  307, 
370-371,  373.  4IQ-  4*° 

Kud.ik  i-dana  ("the  Wise 
Child"),  328 

Kudiyya  sect,  311 

Kula,  196,  199,  203,  210,  216, 

218,    219,   222,    224,  230,    234, 

243,  244,  263,  298,  359,  363, 
370,  385,  3<A  403.  4°5 
Kutic  character,  103 
Kuh-i-Bibi  Shahr-banu,  131 
Kuhistan,  428,  429,  448 
Kun-  (Persian  root),  27 
Kunik,  304 

KVitlV,  26 

Kurdistan,  10,  83,  87 
Kurds,  137,  139,  388,  463 
Kurush,  92.     See  Cymt 
Ibn  Kushajim  (poet),  253,  371 
Kushiya,  94 

Kushti  (sacred  girdle),  99 
Kuthayyir  (poet),  235 
Kyupruiu-zade  Library  (Con- 
stantinople), 276,  383 


La  (in  Pahlawi),  58 

de  Lagarde,  Paul  — ,  19,  260, 

479 
-Lahharn,     Abu'l-Hasan     — 

(Samanid  poet),  365 
Lahiq  ("the  Subsequent"  in 

Isma'ili  system),  414 
Lahma  (=   nan,  "bread,"  in 

Pahlawi),  66,  76 
La  hukma  ilia  li'llah  (Khari- 

jite  war-cry),  222 
Lakhi'a  Dhu  Shanatir  (King 

of  Yaman),  174 
Lalla  Rookh  (of  Moore),  318 
Latna'at(pl  'Iraqi),  420 
Lane-Poole,   Stanley  — ,  214, 

254.  364,  371 

Lar  (town  in  Persia),  294 
Lassen  (of  Bonn),  63,  64,  67 
Lata'ifu'l-Ma'ari/  (of  -Tha'a- 

libi),  255,  317,  354 
Latifa-i-ghaybiyya,  283 
Latin  verses,  446 
Laud,  Archbishop  — ,  41 
Laudian  Professor  of  Arabic, 

19,4' 
Lawh-i-Mahfudh  ("  Preserved 

Tablet "),  427 
Layla    (wife    of     -Husayn, 

mother  of  'AH  Akbar),  131 
Layla  (the  beloved  of  Maj- 

nun),  84 
Layth,    House    of  — .     See 

Saffarids 
Legend,  National  —  of  Persia, 

in.    See  Shahnama,  &c. 
Le  Strange,  Guy  — ,  367 
Levy  (of  Breslau),  103 
Leyden  library.  383 
*Li/>ht  of  Asia,  442-443 
Lingam,  52 
Lisanu'l-Ghayb,     225.       See 

Hafidh 


Lisanu'1-Mulk,  170,  312 
Literatures,  Arabic  and  Per- 
sian, comparative  value  of 

— •  211 
Loftus,  64 
Aoyof  0«of,  97 
Longimanus,   137,    142.     See 

Artaxerxes,  Bahman,  Diraz- 

dast,  Ma/cpo^ftp 
Lord,  Henry  — ,  42 
L'Orient,  46 

Love,  typal  and  real  — ,  442 
*Lubabu'l-albab    (of     'Awfi, 

q.v.),  13,  262,  440-451 
Lu^hat-i-Furs  (of  Asadi.q.v.) 

86,  450,  457 
Lukari,    Abu'l-Hasan   'All   b. 

Muhammad  -  Ghazzali     — 

(Persian  poet),  463 
Abu  Lulu'a  (assassin  of  the 

Caliph  'Umar),  203,  215 
Lull,  Raymond  — ,  40 
Luri  dialect,  83 
Luristan,  19,  87 
Lydians,  21 


M 

-Ma'arri,  Abu'l-'Ala  —  (philo- 
sophical poet),  320,  321,  371 

Ma 'bad  -Juhani,  282 

Macedon,  119 

Machiya  (people),  94 

Mada,  77.    See  Media,  Mah- 

Mada'in,  132,  199,  222,  311, 
324.  See  Ctesiphon 

-Mada'ini,  278 

-Madina,  36.  132,  133,  183, 
189,  195,  196,  199,  203,  205, 
210,  213,  218,  224,  226,  228, 
230,  245,  271,  274,  277,  295, 
290-300,  307 

Madrid,  294 

Abu'l-Mafakhir  of  Ray,  437 

*Mafatihu'l-'ulitm  ("  Keys  of 
the  Sciences"),  372,  378, 
382-383 

Magi  (tribe  of  — ),  30 

Magians  (Magush,  Majus),  12, 
22,  23,  28,  31,  282,  309,  314, 
347,  362,  367,  372,  426.  434, 
443,  448.  See  Guebrcs, 
Zoroastrians 

Magic,  320,  379,  436 ;  "  Law- 
ful — ,"  366 

Magopat  (Mubad),  9.  See 
Zoroastrian  priests 

Mahabadian  Dynasty,  55 

Mahabeli,  55 

Ibn  Mahabzud  (Mah-afzud), 
448 

Mahafarid  (wife  of  Iraj),  116 

Mahan  (=  Maymun),  263 

Mah-  (as  prefix,  in  Mali- 
Basra,  Mah  -  Nahawand, 
&c.),  19,  42,  77 

Mahbul,  55 

Mahdi,  241,  395,  397;  -Saffah 
so  considered,  244 ;  —  of 
Sudan,  245 :  Abu  Muslim 


INDEX 


BO  considered,  246  ;  Fatimid 

— ,  397.    See  also  Messianic 

Idea 
-Mahdi     (/Abbasid     Caliph), 

159,  162,  207,  254,  267,  276, 

3°7,  317,  3i8,  322,  328 
Mahdiyya  (city  of  — ),  353, 

359,  397 

Mahfurudhin,  308 
Mahmud  of  Ghazna,  HI,  337, 

339. 371,  376, 456, 457, 468,471 
Mahmud  Shabistari  (poet  and 

mystic),  282,  444 
Mahmud    Warraq    (Persian 

poet),  355 

Mahmud  (elephant),  177 
Mah-Sa/.  anda     ("Moon- 
maker"),    319.     See   -Mu- 

qanna' 
Mahyar  b.  Marzuya-Daylami, 

448 

Mainvo-i-Khirad,  82,  106,  159 
Ibn  K'laja,  357 
Ifajalisu'l-Mu'minin  (of  Say- 

yid   Nuru'llah    -Shushtari), 

349.  437 
Maiaz  ("the  Metaphorical"), 

442 
Abu'l-Majid  Rayagani  (dialect 

poet),  86 

Mujniii'ii'l-Fusaha,  449,  455 
Majnun,  84 
-Majusi,      'AH      b.     -'Abbas 

(physician),  375 
Makhul  (traditionist),  272 
MaK|0<$xtip>  117.   S«e  Longi- 

manus 

-Mala.    See  Pleroma 
Malabar  Coast,  103 
Malahida.  408.    See  Assassins 
Malahim  (Apocryphal  books), 

241 

Malabo,  John  — ,  169,  172 
Malcolm,  Sir  John  — ,212 
Malik  b.  Anas,  274,  276,  277, 

295,  298,  386 

Malikite  sect,  294,  295,  298 
Malka,  Malkan-malka,  58,  66, 

71,  76 
-Ma'mari,    Abu    Mansur    — 

(author    of    Persian   prose 

version  of  Book  of  Kings), 

123 

Mamelukes,  209 
-Ma'mun    ('Abbasid   Caliph), 

13,  104,  105,  164,  166,  168, 

292,  254,  238,  239,  267,  276, 

283,  284,  288,  302-303,  307, 

323,  336,  339,  340,  343,  346, 

351.  352,  452,  479,  480 
Manaqibu'sh-Shu'ara.  449 
M  a'nawi  of  Bukhara  (Persian 

poet),  468  „ 

Manchester  Library,  452    '* 

(Mandxans,  158,  302 

Manes  (Mani),  136,  137,  184- 

189,  308,  415,  422 ;  Gate  of 

— ,  158 
Manichxans,  43, 104, 106,  184- 

166,  170,  172,  202,  207,  301, 

807,  362,  382,  387,  431,  443- 

bee  also  Zindiq 


-Manini    .(commentator     of 

-•Utbi),  456 
Manjak    (dialect   poet),   453, 

462 
-Mansur    ('Abbasid    Caliph), 

254,     257,    258,    265,     276, 

288,  295,  305,  313-317,  343, 

344 

-Mansur  (Fatimid  Caliph),  403 
Mar.sur-i-Hallaj.  See  Husayn 

b.  Mansur 
Mansur  b.  Ishaq  (Samanid), 

363 
Mansur  b.  -Mahdi  ('Abbasid), 

254 
Mansur  I  b.  Nuh  (Samanid), 

ii,  356,  368,  455,  461,  477 
Mansur  lib.  Nuh  (Samanid), 

468 
Abu  Mansur  of  Aba  (Persian 

poet),  464 
Abu    Mansur    'Abdu'l-Malik. 

See  Tlta'alibi 
Abu     Mansur     b.     'Abdu'r- 

Razzaq,  123 

Abu  Mansur-Ma'mari,  123 
Ibn      Mansur     (disciple     of 

-Hallaj),  435 
Mansuri  (of  -Razi),  363 
*Mantiqi  of  Ray,  Mansur  b. 

'AH —  (Buwayhid  poet), 453, 

463,  465.  466 
Maiitiqit't-Tayt      (of    'Attar, 

q.v.),  444 

Manuchihr    (legendary    Per- 
sian King),  116 
Manuchihri,  Dastur  — ,  47 
Manushchihar     (author     of 

Datistan-i-Dinik,  105 
Manuchihri       (poet).        See 

Minttchihri 
Manuscript,      Oldest      Post- 

Muhammadan  Persian  — , 

ri 

Maqamat  (of  Hariri),  464 
-Maqdisi  (geographer),  293 
Mara-bokht  (name),  145 
Marcion,  160 
Marcionites,  382,  387 
Mardanshah   (Persian    gene- 
ral), 200 
Mardanshah  -  i  -  Zadan-i-Far- 

rukh  (Persian  accountant), 

205 

Mardan-S'tna,  129 
Mardawij  b.  Ziyar,  359,  360, 

365 

Mardin,  302 

Marianus  (alchemist),  274 
Maria  Theresa,  153 
Markham,  Clements  — ,  212 
Marriage  Contract,  Form  of 

— ,  109 

Mars  (Planet),  461 
Martyn,  Henry  — ,  423 
Ma'riif  -Karkhi  (Sufi),  298,42,1 
*Ma'rufi  of  Balkh  (Samanid 

poet),  463 

Marv,  Marw.    See  Merv 
Marv-Dasht,  70 
Marvels  of  India  ('Aja'iMl- 

Hind),  368 


Marwan  I.  (Umayyad),  215, 
263 

Marwan  II.  (Umayyad),  "the 
Ass,"  215,  240-245,  265 

Marwan  b.  Abi  Hafsa  (poet), 
276 

Marwarudh,  242,  244 

Maryam,  Suratu  —  (ch.  xix 
of  Qu'ran),  187 

Maryam  Utakhim  (mother  of 
Manes),  158 

Marzuban  (Ispahbad),  478 

Marzuban  b.  Rustam  (Ispah- 
bad), 159 

Marzuban-nama,  478 

Abu    Ma'shar   (astronomer), 

357 
Ma    siwa'a'llah    ("What    is 

beside  God"),  438 
Masjid  -i  -  Madar-i-Sulayman, 

'13 
Masruq    (Abyssinian    King), 

178 

Masrur  (executioner),  254 
Ibn  Mas'ud  (Companion).  217 
*-Mas'udi  (historian),  14,  109, 

1 10,  119-120,  127-128,  169, 

217,  218,  230,  237,  267,  297, 

314,  324,  328,  368,  417 
Abu'l-Mathal     of      Bukhara 

(Persian  poet),  468 
Mathalib  (satires),  269 
Mathematics,  380,  382,  386 
Mathnawi  form  of  verse,  18, 

473-474-  476 
Mathnawi    (of    Jalalu'd-Din 

Rumi),  423,  434,  437.  44°, 

441,  444 

Main  (text  of  a  tradition),  271 
Ibn  Matran,  Abu  Muhammad 

—  (Samanid  poet),  365 
-Maturidi  (theologian),  367 
Mawali     ("Clients,"    pi.    of 

Mawla),   229,   230,  232-235, 

242,  247,  260,  263,  264,  266. 

See  Racial  Prejudice,  Sub- 


ject Races 
Ma     wara'u'n- Nahr. 


See 


Transoxiana 
Max  Miiller,  33-34,  57 
Maymadh  (or  Mimad),  324 
Maymuniyya  (sect).  396 
Mays  (mother  of  Manes),  158 
Maysara     -'Abdi     ('Abbasid 

da'i),  236 
Mazamir  (Psalms  of  David. 

q.v.),  113 
Mazandaran,   19,   26,  83,  86 ; 

Dialect  of  — ,  348,  478 
Mazda.    See  Ahura  Mazda, 

Hurmazd 
Mazdak,   135,   136,   137,   166- 

178,  202,  247,  312-313,  316, 

318,  323,  324,  326,  328,  362, 

387 

Mazdak-nama,  169,  332      — - 
Mazyar,  33O-33I,  334-33^ 
Mecca,  173,  174,  176-178,  186, 

189,  213,  216,  224,  228,  230, 

231,  245,  261,  270,  307,  316, 

345,  357,  358,  359,  3^7,  4°*. 
403,  405 


INDEX 


Medes.  19-14.  36,  28,  30,  31, 

33.    37.    4>.    65.   9°.    i« : 

Language  of  — ,  22-24, 77-78 
Me<lia,   5,   20,   22,  23,  24,  25, 

26,  31.  32.  42.  94.  96 
Medicine,  289,   304,  305,  307, 

381,  382,  430 
Meiners,  57 
Menant.  Professor  J.  — ,  64  ; 

Mademoiselle  — ,  102 
Mercia,  5  ;  Dialect  of  — ,  479 
Mercurius,  St.  — ,  Church  of 

—  399 
Merv,    13.   35,    237,    242,   244, 

295,  3i8,  3*o,  340,  428,  452, 

467,  475 
Mesopotamia,  305,  402,   421, 

448 
Messiah,    162,   395,  480.     See 

also  Jesus  Chtist 
Messianic  Idea,  232,  241,  479 
Metempsychosis,  279, 311, 316. 

See  Tanasvkh 
Metrical  system  of  Persians 

and  Arabs,  472 
Meyer,  W.  — ,  59 
ite  Mtynard,  Barbier  — ,  365, 

368,447 

M  ichael,  Archangel  — ,  427 
Microcosm,  412 
Middle  Persian,  7,  80,  82.    See 

Pahlaiei 
Mihriyya     (sect     of     Mani- 

chxans),  165 
Mihrgan,  Festival  of  — ,  259, 

475 

Mihrjani,  Abu  Ahmad  — ,  293 
Mihyar,  Abu'l-Hasan  — ,  207 
Abu  Mikhnaf  Lut  b.  Vuhya, 

-Azdi,  273 
Milky  Way,  161 
Milton,  37 

Mini  b.  Mim  b.  Mini,  241 
Miniad  (or  Maymad),  325 
*-Mi'mari  (or  -Mirammari), 

Shaykh     Abu     Zura'a    — 

(Persian  poet),  458-459 
Mino    ("celestial,"    meaning 

"Royal"),  153 
Minuchihri  (Persian  poet),  12, 

1 3.  331.  340,  369,  474.    (The 

allusions  are   all   to  A.  de 

Biberstein         Kazimirski's 

Preface   to  his  edition  of 

the  Diw.iri) 
Miqlasiyya  (sect  of  Mani- 

charsns).  1^5 
Mislikatu'l-Anwar  (of  -Ghaz 

zali).  362,  436 
Mission.    See  Da~wa 
Missionary  driven  from  Persia 

by  name,  270  ;  Missionary's 

dislike  of  Sufis,  423  ;  Reason 

of   Missionaries'  failure  in 

Asia,  265 

Mithr  (Mihr)  Fire,  139,  140 
Mithra,  Zoroastrian  worship 

of  — ,  95,  101 
Milhrak  (Mihrak),  adversary 

of  Ardashir  Babakan.  138 
"Modern  Medic"  (of  M.  CL 

Huart),  27 


Modern  (i.e.,  Post-Muhamma- 

dan),   Persian,  &  8,  1 1,  39, 

89  :  —  defined,  82 
Mogul ,  Great  — ,  209 
Mogutbish  ("  Magicide  "),  31 
Mohl,  Jules  — ,  369 
Mohsan  (Muhsin)  Fan),  54 
Molten  Brass  Ordeal,  157 
Mongol  Invasion,  0,  82,  197  - 

108,  200-211,  271,  273,  286, 

877,  391.  479 
Monophysites,  168 
Moody,  43 

Moon  (Beauty),  320,  321 
"Moon-maker"    (Mah-sazan- 

da),  319.    See  Muqatina' 
Moore,     Thomas     —    (Irish 

poet),  318,  447 
Moors,    9,   39,   275.  334,   335. 

See    also    Spain.    Africa, 

Utnayyaits  of  Cordova.  &c. 
Morality  at   'Abbasid   Court, 

251-252 
Mordecai,  21 
Morier,  423 

Morocco,  340.  See  also  Moors 
Morris,  Lewis  — ,  447 
Moses,  29,  113,  119,  188,  288, 

408,  409,  427,  430,  436,  440 
Moses  of  Khorene.  117 
Mosheim,  155 
"  Most  Great  Name,"  314 
"  Mother   of    Nine    Imams," 

131.  132 

Mu'allaqat,  276,  369-370 
Mu'allimun  (grade  of  Mani- 

chieans),  164 
Mu'awiya       I       (Umayyad 

Caliph),   212,   215,    217-219, 

221,  223-225,  361,  291 
Mu'awiya       II      (Umayyad 

Caliph),  215 

Mu'awiya  b.  Hisham,  215 
Mu'ayyidu'd-Dawla  (Buway- 

hid),  374 
Mu'ayyidu'l  -  Mulk     (Persian 

poet),  464 
Abu'l-Mu'ayyad     of      Balkh 

(Persian  poet),  468 
Abu'l-Mu'ayyad  of    Bukhara 

(Persian  poet),  468 
Mubad  (Magopat),   309,    331. 

See  Zoroastrian  Priests 
-Mubarrad,  221,  350,  357,  375 
Mubayyida    (=    Sapid-jama- 

gan,      the      "White-clad" 

heretics),  311-313,  318,  319, 

322,  323 

Abu'l-Mudhaffar,  Amir  — ,460 
*Abu'l  -   Mudhatfar         Nasr 

-Istighna'i(Persian  poet), 
Abu'l-Mudhaffar      Tahir     b. 

Fadl  b.  Muhammad  Muhtaj 

-Saghani  (Chaghani),  471 
-Mufaddal  -Dabbi,  276,  278 
-Mufaitdaliyyat,  276 
-Mufid  (the  '  Pre-existent "  in 

the  Isma'ili  system),  414 
Mugluunmas     (place      near 

Mecca),  177 
Mughtasila,    158,    303.      Se« 

also  Ifam&MM,  Sabxans 


Miihajirun.  186.  213.  220 
Muhammadan  Religion.    See 

Islam 

Muhammad  (the  Prophet), 
birth  of  — ,  173,  214  ;  — 
threatened  by  Khusraw 
Parwiz  183 ,  aim  and 
achievement  of  — ,  186-190. 
194,  212-213,  234;  —  and 
Abu  Talib,  193  ;  —  and 
Magiatis,  201-202,  206 :  — 
and  spoils  of  war,  205 ; 
dislike  of  —  for  Persian 
legends,  269  ;  —  In  Isma'ili 
system,  408  409,  412-414  ; 

—  and  Sufiism,  418 ;  —  in 
Apocrypha  of  Daniel,  479- 
480  ;  minor  references,  113, 
130,  132,  166,  177,  181,  200, 
203,  209,  210,  216,  229,  275, 
276,  287,  297,  299.  4°8,  4°9. 
430 

Muhammad  b.   'Abdu'llah  b. 
.  .  'Abbas,  254 
-  b.  -. Azdi,  276 

b.  b.  Maymun,  397, 

409 

—  b.  'Abdu'l  -  Malik.     See 
Ibnu'z-Zayyat 

—  b.     'Abdu'r- Rahman 
-'Amiri,  273 

b.  'Abdu's-Samad  (Sahi- 

bu'sh-Shurta),  432 

—  b.    Ahmad   -Farsi    (= 
Hallai,  q.v.),  431 

—  b.  'All   b.   'Abdullah  b. 
'Abbas,  236,  237,  240 

b. b.  'Umar  -Salimi, 

274 

Baqir,  Imam  — ,  409 

,  Mirza,  of  Bawanat, 

39° 

Darabi,  283,  285 

b.  Hasan  -Shaybani,  276 

b.  Humayd,  323 

Husayn,  Mir,  54 

b.    Ishaq    (author    of 

Fihrist,  q.v.),  76,  no 

b.  Isma'il,  296,  393,  394, 

397,  404  408,  409,  414.    See 
also  Isma'ilis,  &c. 

b.  Khalid  b.  Barmak,  164 

b.    Khunays    ('Abbasid 

da'i),  236 

b.  Marwan   (Umayyad 

Prince),  215 

b.  -Mu'tasim   ('Abbasid 

Prince),  254 

b.  -Rawwad  -Azdi,  325 

b.  Sa'ib  -Kalbi,  275 

b.  Shirin,  274 

b.  -Zayyat.    See  Ibnit'z- 

Zayvat 
Abu  Muhammad b.Yaminu'd- 

Dawla  -Ghaznawi,  471 
Muhammira     ("  those     who 

wear  Red  as  their  badge  "), 

311-313,  323,  329 
Muharram,  227 


-Muhasibi  (Sun).  345,  424 
Miiliit  (of  the  Sahib  isi 


t>.  .Ibbad,  q.v.),  374 


Isma'il 


512 


INDEX 


Muhitu'J-Multit  (Arabic  Dic- 
tionary), 326 

-Muhtadi  ('Abbasid  Caliph), 
254,  345 

•Muir,  Sir  William   — ,   188, 

191,  192,  210,  211,  219,  220, 
222,  224,  226,  227,  229,  240, 
251,  317,  342  345 

Mu'izzu'd-Dawla  (Buwayhid), 

164,  364,  367 
-Mu'izz  (Fatimid  Caliph),  367, 

399 
Mujallidi,  Sharif—  of  Gurgan, 

15,  16 
-Mu'jam  fi  Ma'abiri  Ash'ari 

'Ajam,  473 

Itiijmalu't-Tavrarikh,  no 
-Mukhtar,   228,  229,  231,  233, 

234,  238 
-Muktati    ('Abbasid    Caliph), 

357,  358 

Mulamma'  poetry,  467 
Ibn  Muljam,  224 
Miiller,  Friedrich  — ,  64,  153 
Miiller,  Joseph  — ,  64,  72 
Muluku  t-Tawa'if,  79,  HI,  118. 

See  also.Parthians 
Mundhir  (King  of  Hira),  179, 

262 

Munk,  479 
*-Munqidh  mina'd  Dalai  (of 

-Ghazzali),  422 
-Muntasir  ('Abbasid  Caliph), 

254-  345 
Miinter,  60 

-Muqaddasi  (geographer),  293 
Ibnu'l-Muqaffa',  76,  110,  113, 

123,  169,  207-208,  273,  306, 

319,  332 
-Muqanna'  ("Veiled  Prophet 

of  Khurasan  "),  247,  309, 311, 

313,  318-323 
Ibn  Muqla,  76,  275,  364 
-Muqtadir  ('Abbasid  Caliph), 

164,  358-360,  363,  364,  428, 

429,  431 
Murghab,  113 
-Muriyani,    Abu    Ayyub    — , 

258 

-Murjiya  (sect),  279-281,  386 
Abu  Murra.b.  'Urwa-Thaqafi, 

Murshid  (spiritual  director), 
424 

*Murujit'dh-Dhahab(oi  -Mas- 
'itdi,  q.v.),  169,  230,  257, 
267,  297,  324,  368,  417 

Muruwwa  ("  Virtue,"  as  con- 
ceived by  Pagan  Arabs), 
190,  193 

Musa  b.  'Ali  .  .  .  b.  'Abbas, 

254 
Musa -Kadhm  (Seventh  Imam 

of  "  Sect  of  the  Twelve  "), 

206,  393 

Abu  Musa  -Ash'ari,  216,  219 
Abu  Musa  b.  Nusayr,  263 
Mus'ab  b.-Zubayr,  228,  229 
Musawwida    ("  Those     who 

wear  Black  as  their  badge," 

i.e.,   the  partisans   of   the 

'Abbasids),  242,  243 


Mushabbiha.    See  Anthropo- 
morphism. 
Mnshammasun      (grade     of 

Alanichaeans),  164 
Music,  380,  382,  383 
Muslim    -Nishaburi      (tradi- 

tionist),  351 

Muslim  b.  -Walid  (poet),  276 
Abu    Muslim,    240-244,    248, 

247,  256,  308-310,  313-315, 

317, 320,  322,  328,  392, 410. 
Muslimiyya  (the  Sect  of  Abu 

Muslim),  313,  315 
-Mustafid  ("  the  Subsequent " 

in  the  Isma'ili  system),  414 
-Musta'in   ('Abbasid  Caliph), 

254.  345 
Mustakli  ('Abbasid    Caliph), 

3^4 
-Mustansir  (Fatimid  Caliph), 

400 
-Musta'sim        bi'llah        (last 

'Abbasid  Caliph  of   Bagh- 
dad), 6,  164,  209,  210 
-Mu'tadid   ('Abbasid  Caliph), 

254,  358.  4°5 
Mutahhar    b.     Fatima    (the 

grandson  of  Abu  Muslim), 

328 
-Mu'tamid  ('Abbasid  Calipli), 

254,  350,  353,  354-  356,  388 
-Mutanabbi  (the    poet),   369, 

446,  472 
-Mu'tasim  ('Abbasid  Caliph), 

252,  254,   278,  329  336,  342. 
Muta\vakkil('Abbasid  Caliph), 

253,  254,  259,  289-291,  332, 
337, 339,  341-345.  347 

Mu'tazilite  sect,  2-34-233,  279, 
281-289,  291-292,  294,  298, 
306,  342,  344,  351,  352,  366, 
386,  335, 423,  43°,  437 

-Mu'tazz    ('Abbasid    Caliph), 

254,  345,  347 
Ibnu'l-Mu'tazz   (son   of    the 

above),  254,  358,  363 
Muthanna  b.  Haritha  (one  of 

the     "  Companions "     and 

early  conquerors  of  Persia), 

195 
-Muti'  ('Abbasid  Caliph),  367, 

371 
Muti'  b.  Ayas  (poet  and  Mani- 

chsean),  307 

-Muttaqi('Abbasid  Caliph  ^364 
-Muwaffaq  ('Abbasid  prince), 

254 

Muwaffaq,  Abu  Mansur  — 
(author  of  old  Persian  phar- 
macology), n,  450 

-Muwatta  (title  of  two  works 
on  Law),  273-274 

Muzdawija  (=  Mathnawi 
poetry),  476 

Mystics,  296-301.    See  Sufis. 

Mystics,  Vaughan's  classifi- 
cation of  — ,  424 

N 

Nabathaeans,    247,    266,    306, 

324,  328 
Nabidb  (Pate-wine),  285,  329 


Xadr  b.  -Harith  -'Abdari,  269 
-Nadim   -Warraq    -Baghdad! 

(author    of    -Fihrist,  q.v.), 

373,  378.  383 
*Nafaliatti'l-Uns    (of    Jami). 

299,  362,  417,  4l8,  423,  425, 

437 
Nahawand,  79 ;  Battle  of  — , 

200,  247 

Nahid  (Venus),  461 
-Nahrajuri,   Abu    Ahmad   — 

(one  of  the  Ikhwann  's-Safa, 

<7-^-).  293 
Nahr  Bashir,  197 
Nahruwan,  222,  432 
Na'ila('Uthman's.wife),  217 
Na'in  (dialect),  86 
-Najashi  (Negush,  the  ruler 

of  Abyssinia),  175,  186-188 
Najda  the  Kharijite,  228 
Najmu'd-Din-Rawandi,  85 
Najran,  Christians  of  — ,  175 
Nakhshab,  244.  318,  319 
-Nami  (poet),  370 
Napper  Tandy  (Irish  patriot), 

34.6 

Naqibs  (in   'Abbasid    propa- 
ganda), 240 
Naqsh-i-Rajab,  44,  151 
Naqsh-i-Rustam,   5,    70,   150, 

151 

Nariman,  116 

Narshakhi  (historian  of  Buk- 
hara), 368 
Nasa,  35,"  242 
-Nasa'-i     (traditionist),     351, 

363 

Nasaf,  244.    See  also  Nakh- 
shab 

-Kashi  (poet),  370 
Nasikliit't-Tau'arikli.,  170 
Nasimi    (Turkish    poet    and 

Hurufi),  423-424 
Na'sii'-i-Khusraw,  86,  268,  278, 

295,  3S9,  399,  4°°,  4<>  J,  437, 

462 

Nasiru'd-Din  Qubacha,  450 
Nasiru'd-Din  Shah  Qajar,  172 
Nasiru'1-Haqq   (Sayyid  ruler 

of  Tabaristan),  207 
Nasr  I  b.  Ahmad  (Samanid), 

352 
Nasr  II  b.  Ahmad  (Samanid), 

13,  16,  359,  365,  456,  458 
Nasr    b.    Sayyar    (Umayyad 

governor     of      Khurasan), 

232,  241-244,  265 
Ibn  Nasr  -Qushuri,  433 
Abu  Nasr  -Karabi,  368 
Abu  Nasr  -Dharifi  (Samanid 

poet),  365 

Abu  Nasr,  Shaykh  — ,  446 
Nassau  Lees,  Capt.  — ,  299 
Nat'  (executioner's  carpet), 

435 

Natanz,  26 
Natiq  (in    Isma'ili    system), 

408,  409,  413,  414 
Natural  Science,  289 
Nawbahar  (in  Balkh),  257 
Nawbandajan,  364 
Naw-ruz,  114,  259,  475 


INDEX 


513 


Nazar,  -'Aziz  Abu  Mansur  — 
(Fatimld  Caliph),  371 

Nazuk  (Captain  of  the  Guard), 
435 

Nehemiah,  61 

-Nejashi  (=  -Najashi,  q.  v.), 
175,  186-188. 

N'ejran  (=•  Kajran,  q.  v.),  175 

Neo-Platonists,  96,  167,  300, 
301,  304,  381,  420-421,  441 

Neo-Pythagoreans,  381 

Neriosengh,  63,  67,  68,  106 

Newcastle,  Coals  to  — ,  456 

Ni?aya,  32,  35 

Nicholson,  K.  A.  — ,  167,  ."99, 
420,  421,  440 

Nidhami  -'Arudi  -Samarqandi 
(author  of  Chahar  Maqala, 
q.v.),  15-17,  317,  449,  456, 
470 

Nidhami  of  Ganja,  15,  18,  52, 
1 19 

Nidhamiyya  College,  293 

Nidhanni'1-Mulk,  169, 171, 172, 
312-314,  328,  349,  353,  401, 
456 

Niebuhr,  59,  62 

+Nikayat*l-lrabfiA)tkbarfl- 
Funwa'l-'Arab,  183 

lfiki-nama  (poem  in  Tabari 
dialect),  478 

Nile,  400 

Nine  (number),  410 

Nineteen  (number),  98,  100, 
101 

Nineveh,  21 

Niratigistait,  99,  102 

Nirvana,  443 

Nishapur,  12,  244,  308,  309, 
314.  347,  35i.  355,  368.  4<», 
428,  445 

Noah,  114,  320,  408,  409,  430 

Noble,  Sons  of  the  —  (Banul- 
Ahrar),  181, 

*N61deke,  Prof.  Th.  — ,  6,  9, 
10,  22,  24,  70,  75,  106,  108, 
109,  in,  115,  117,  120-123, 
129,  134,  135,  137,  138,  140, 
141,  145,  146,  150,  152,  154, 
166,  168,  170,  180,  183,  188, 
221,  241,  262,  302,  312,  332, 
347,  349,  35°.  353,  459,  4<« 

Nominalism,  294 

Normans,  95 

Xorthumbria,  5 

Nosks  (of  Avesta),  21,  97-99, 
108 

"  Nouer  1'aiguilette,"  366 

Ibn  Nubata,  373 

Nudhar,  121 

Nudnud  (Babak's  execu- 
tioner), 329 

Nufayl,  177 

Nuh.    See  Noah 

Nuh  I  b.  Nasr  II  (Samanid), 
3'J5 

Nuh  II  b.  Mansur  (Samanid), 
J23,  371.  374.  375.  460-  4&3 

Nu'man,  King  of  Hira,  264 

Numbers.  Signification  of  — , 
310,  408.  See  also  Sei-en. 


Nui-u'd-Din  (Atabek  of  Syria), 
400 

Nuru'llah  .  .  .  Mar'ashi- 
Shushtari,  349 

Nusayri  Sect,  203,  304,  395 

Nushinvan  (Anushak-rubano, 
Khusraw-i-Kawatan),  12, 
107,  108,  1 10,  128-129,  131, 
HZ.  133  (why  so  entitled), 
138-137,  188-172,  173,  174. 
179,  181-182,  194,  301,  90S. 
347,  «9,  «21 

Abu  Nu\yas  (poet),  277 

-Nuwayri  (historian),  410,  411 

Nuwikath,  164 

Nyayish(Zoroastrian  prayers), 
"101 

O 

Oath  of  Allegiance,  Isma'ili 

—,4i3 
Occultation     (Ghaybat)     of 

Imam,  310,  352 
Occult  Sciences,  274,  276,  374 
Oculists,  Biography  of  —,  368 
Odatis,  121 
"  Old  Bactrian  "  (or  "  Zend  ") 

language,     25,     78.      See 

Avestic 
"  Old  Man  of  the  Mountain  " 

(Shaykhu'l-Jabal),  396 
Old    Persian   language   and 

inscriptions,  7,23,  24,  39,  43, 

44,  56,  89-88,  67,  78-80,  82, 

88,  89,  91-95 
Olearius,  42 
Olshausen,  19.  79 
Omar.    See  'Uniar 
Oneiromancy,  274 
Oppert,  23,  24,  64,  65,  78 
Oracles,  190 
Oral  tradition,  251 
Oriental  Studies  in  Europe, 

History  of  — ,  39  et  seqq. 
Origen,  293 
Ormazd,     25.     See     Alnira 

Mazda,  Hurmazd 
"  Orthodox     Caliphs "     (al- 

Khulafa'u'r-R  as  hi  An  «), 

I88-I8I),    194,    210,    212,    224, 
388,   417 

Orthodox  Reaction,  255,  290- 
291.  See  also  Astra  ii 

Oshederbarni  (Oshederma), 
Zoroastrian  Messiah,  246 

Ossetic,  83 

Ostend,  49 

Ottoman,  Poetrv,  History  of 
— ,  by  E.  J.  W.  Gibb,  390, 


Otton 


man    Sultans'   claim   to 

Caliphate,  209,  343 
Oudh,  Catalogue  of  MSS.  of 

King  of  — ,  452 
Ouseley,  71 
Oxford,  40,  41,  48-10 
Oxus,  iC,  189,  318  * 


Pahlapat,  15.    See  Barbatl 
Pahlawi    inscriptions,  7,  44, 
57,  58,  60-61,  70-72,  91,  93, 

34 


131-183:  language,  7, 10-11. 

37,  56.  09,  79-81,  205-206 ; 

—  literature,  7-8,  9,  68,  81- 

82,  89,  91, 109-110,  117,  118, 

121-123,  165,  168,  169,  340  ; 

"  Modern   —  "   ("  Pehlevi- 

Musulman  "  of  Huart),  28- 

88,  80-81,  86-87  :  —  script, 

7-10,  66-67, 78-77, 80,  81-62, 

152,  165,  205-206 
Palestine,  245 
Palmer,  Professor  E.  H.  — , 

254.255 
Pamirs,  25,  35 
Panah-Khusraw  (Fana-Khus- 

raw),  448 

Panjab,  33,  35,  376 
Pantheism,  297,  300,  427,  428, 

436.  438-444 
Papak  (father  olAttakhshatr- 

i-Papakan     or      Ardaslih 

Babakan,  q.v.),  70,   71,  93 

122, 137,  I39-I42.  153 
Paraclete,  395 
"  Paradise  of  Oght "  (Mani 

chaean),  161 

Paris,  40,  41,  45,  447,  464 
Parsa,  4,  26,  32,  105,  128,  137, 

139, 143,  17°,  «oo,  264,  347, 

360.    See  also  Pars,  Penis 
Pars!  (Parsee),  4,  25,  42,  69, 

72,  96,  102,  206.  See  Gnebre, 

Afagian,  Zoroastrian 
"Parsi  language,"  81,  82 
Parthia  (Parthava,  Pahlava, 

Fahla),  5,  36,  79,  94 
Parthians,  5,  41,  79,  81,  90,  96,, 

103,  in,  119,  121,  136,  137, 

154.  158 
Parwiz,  Khusraw  — ,  6, 12,  15, 

17,  10%  122,  129,  174,   181, 

182,  183,  194,  218,  266,  269 
Pashmiua-push("  Wool-clad  " 

=Sufi),  297,  417 
Pashto  (Pakhto),  28 
"  Passing  of  Shahr-banu,"  131 
Pataka,  Patecius,  IlariKtOf, 

Patricius,  157 
"Path"    (Tariqat)     of    the 

Sufis,  441 

Paulus,  H.  E.  G.  — ,  54 
Payne,  John  — ,  444 
Pazend,  69,  77,  61,    82,   ior, 

106,  107 
Pazawari,  Amir  —  (Mazan- 

darani  poet),  83 
"  Pehlevi  -  Husulman  "     (of 

Huart),    26,    27.    See   also 

Pahlawi,  Modern  — 
Pentateuch,  29, 113,  479 
de  Perceval,  Caussin  — ,212 
Persse  (of  ^Eschylus),  91 
Persepolis,  5,  56,  62, 64,  66, 70 

93,  112-113,  «8,  153 
Persian      contributions      to 

Arabic       Literature       and 

Science,  3-4,  204,  275,  278, 

445-448 
Persian  influence  on  Arabs, 

251.  252,  255,  260,  278,  300 
Persian   language,  5-7,   and 

passim 


5'4 


INDEX 


Persian  literature,  Birth  of 
modern  — ,  11-14,  340-341 

Persian  Martyrs,  Acts  of  the 
— .  See^cfc 

"  Persian,"  Meaning  of  the 
term  — ,  4-5 

Persian  scholar,  Qualifi- 
cations of  — ,  377 

Ufpaixol  /8t/3Xot,  122 

Persls  (=Parsa,  Fan,  q.v.), 

4.  5,  25,  3°.  79, 105 
Pertsch,  449,  452 
Petermann,  302 
Pharaoh,  333,  334,  440 
Pharmacology. 
Phatecius,  157 
"  Phil-Hellenes,"  79 
Philip  III  of  France,  40 
Philip  of  Macedon,  119 
Philo-Judaus,  97,  381 
Philology,  Arabic  — ,  260,  269, 

270,  275 
Philology,  Dangers  of  — ,  36- 

"  Philosopher  of  the  Arabs," 

356.    Seea«K«d« 
Philosophers,    Neo-PIatonist 

—  in  Persia,  167 
Philosophy,  284, 288-289, 292- 

294,  304-307,  363,  364-  378- 

881, 437 
Photius,  21 

Phraortes  (Fravartlsh),  21 
Pigeons,  Carrier  — ,  396 
Pindar  (or  Bundar)  of  Ray, 

85,  86,  348,  437 
Pir  (spiritual  director),  424 
Piruz  (Peroz,  Firuz),  75,  121, 

158 
Piruz  -  i  -  Gushnaspdeh,    174, 

182 

Pjshawar,  372 
Pishdadi   Dynastj',    55,  III- 

"5,  "9 

Pisiyauvada,  31 
Pits,  People  of  the  — ,  175 
Plato,  167 
Plerpma,  408,  410 
Plotinus,  420 
Pluto,  114 
Pococke,  41 
Poetry,  Origins  of  Persian  — , 

12-15,  18,  no 
Pognon,  M.  — ,  302 
"  Point "  (Nuqta),  98 
Polak,  26,  27, 172 
Poll-tax,  201.    See  Jizya 
Polo,  138  ; bat,  crescent 

moon  compared  to  — ,  463 
Polygamy,  186,  288 
Polyhistor,  21 
"  Polyphony,"  72 
Polytheists         (Mushrikun), 

Mu'tazilites  call  their  oppo- 
nents — ,  281 
Pondichery,  46 
Porphyry,  420 
Portents  of  Fall  of  Persian 

Empire,  173 
Portsmouth,  48 
Portuguese,  302 
Postel,  William  — ,  40 


Predestination,  281-283,  285- 

286,  386 
"  Pre-existent  "    (in    Isma'ili 

sj'stem),  414 
Primal    Matter    (Hayyula), 

408-409 

Priscian  (Neo-PIatonist  Philo- 
sopher), 421 
Procopius,  169 
Profanation  of  Tombs,  245 
Proper  names  Arabicized,  263 
Prosody,  275,  389,  471-474 
Psalms  of  David,  113 
Pseudo-Callisthenes,  118 
Pseudo  Sabreans  of  Hat  ran 

(q.v.),  301-306 
Ptolemy,  381 
Pulwar  River,  70 
Puran  -  Dukht        (Sasanian 

Queen),  174,  182 
Puran,  daughter  of  Hasan  b. 

Sahl,    and    wife    of    al- 

Ma'mun,  255 
Puritans,  37 
Putiya,  94 


Qaba'il   =   "  Arabs  "  -  (as  op- 
posed  to    Shu'ub,    "  Gen- 
tiles "),  265 
Qabus  b.  Washmgir,  371,  446, 

466,  469,  470-471 
Qabusiyya  Dynastj',  207 
Qadariyya  sect,  279,  281-28-5 
-Qaddah.    See   'Abdtt'llah  b. 

Maymun 

Qadisij'ya,  Battle  of  — ,  6, 117, 
174,  182,  195-197,  200,  202, 

221,  247 

eahir  ('Abbasid  Caliph),  364 
ahira.    See  Cairo 
Qahtaba,  244 
-Qa'im  (=  -Sfaftdi,  q.v.),  408, 

414 
-Qa'im  (Fntimid  Caliph),  403 

eajar,  207 
alansuwa  (Persian  hat,  pi. 

Qalanis),  259,  330 
Qaren,  121 

Qarmat,  Hamdan  — ,  396 
Qarmati,  Qirmati,   40!$.    See 

Cannathians,  Isma'ilis,  Sect 

of  the  Seven 
Qasida,  472,  474 
-Qasim  b.  Burhan,  208 
Abu'l-Qasim  b.  Abu'l-'Abbas, 

467 

Abu'l-Qasim  -Dinawari,  365 
Abu'l-Qasim     Hibatti'Uah   b. 

Sina'u'1-Mulk,  321 
Qp.sr-i-Shirin,  12 
Qatran   of    Tabriz    (Persian 

poet),  86,  462 
Qazwin,  80,  86,  325 
*-Qaz\vini   (geographer),    14, 

157,  257-288,  819-320,  323 
Qissisun     (class    of     Mani- 

chaeans),  164 

Hit'a,  472,  474 
iwami  of  Ray  (Persian  poet), 
437 


Qiyara  (the  upright  position 

in  Prayer),  412 

ohrud  (dialect),  26,  27, 80,  86 

uakers,  297,  417 

uatrain,  18.    See  Kuba'i 

uatremere,  76,  399 
jubad  (or  Kavad,  q.v.),  134 
-Qubawi  (translator  of  Xar- 

shakhi),  368 
Quhyar  (brother  of  Uazvar, 

9-v.),  334 

Quietism,  297,  300,  427,  428 
Qum,  History  of — ,  374 
Qumis,  314,  448 
Qumri     of    Gurgan,     Abu'l- 

Qasim  Ziyad  b.  Muhammad 

—  (Persian  poet),  453,  466 
-Qunna'i  (disciple  of  -Hallaj), 

43i 
'•'Qur'an,  12,  98,  102,  113, 119,* 

166.  175,*  178,*  187,   191*, 

200,  201,*  206,  213,*  217, 219, 

220,  221,  228,  230*.  231,  236, 

242,  260,  261,  265,  270,  271, 

272, 274, 288, 289, 293,  303, 

320,*  333,*  347,  357, 3<56, 374- 
377.  379,  385,  387,  388,  406, 
412-414,*  418,  432,  435,  442, 
467,  477 ;  — ,  created  or  un- 
create,  284-285,  287,  290, 
295 
Quraysh,  177,  213,  214,  216, 

221,  260,  261,  264,  267,  295 
QurratuVAyn      (the      Babi 

heroine),  172 
-Qushayri,  297 
Qushuri,  Ibn  Nasr  — ,  433 
Quss  Bahrain,  396 
Qussu'n-Natif,  Battle  of  — 

200 

Qusta  b.  Luqa,  278,  306,  345 
Ibn  Qutayba,  15,  no,  169,  26j, 

268,  277,  324,  3»7,  387-388, 

447 
Qutrub,  277 


Rabi'a  (Tribe  of),  242 

Rabi'a-Adawiyya,  299,  300, 
418,  424,  426 " 

Rabshekeh,  66 

Racial  feeling,  114,  232-2^3, 
242,  264-265  See  also  Sub- 
ject Races 

-Radi  ('Abbasid  Caliph),  364 

-Radi,  -Sharif  — (poet),  448 

-Raffa'  (poet),  370 

Rafidi  (pi.  Rawafid),  314. 360- 
361.  See  Ghttlat,  Sect  of  the 
Seven,  Sect  of  the  Twelve, 
Shi'ites,  &c.  fe 

Rafsinjan,  87. 

'Payat,  35-  See  Ranlia,  Ray 

Rajaz  (form  of  verse),  173 

Rajputs,  372 

Rakhsh,  316,  317 

Ram  (typifying  the  Farr-i- 
Kayant,  or  "Royal  Splen- 
dour "),  137 

Ram  (Festival  of  — ),  259,  475 


INDEX 


515 


Ram  Hurmuz  (or  -Hurmazd), 

J57.347.368 
Ranha,  26,  35.    See  Ray. 


Raqqa,  276 

Rashid' 


:udi  of  Samarqand  (Per- 
sian poet),  457 

Rashidu'd-Din  Fadlu'llati 
(Persian  historian),  392 

Rashidu'd-Din  Sinan  (grand 
master  of  the  Syrian 
Assassins),  396 

"Ravens"  (Blacks),  179 

Rawand  (place),  315 

Rawandiyya  or  Rawandis, 
24°.  315-316 

Rawfaryad,  162 

Rawlinson.  63,  91, 92 

Rawnaqi  (Persian  poet),  468 

Rawdatu's-Safa  (Persian  his- 
tory), 170 

Kay,  23,  32,  35,  79,  85,  86,  109, 
131, 132,  137,  M3,  '45,  247, 
313.  314.  350,  428,  448 

Abu  Ravhan.    See  -liiitini 

-Razi,  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad 
b.  Zakariyya  (physician ), 
known  in  Europe  as  Rhazes, 
363 

"  Readers  "  (Qurra),  228 

Realism,  294 

Recurrence  of  Ideas  in  Persia, 
98-99,  ico-ioi 

Red  as  a  badge,  311,  312.  See 
Muhainmira 

Red  Cross  Knights,  480 

Reid  (missionary  so  named), 
270 

Re-incarnation,  311.  See 
Return,  Rij'at,  Metempsy- 
chosis 

Religion,  Eastern  and  West- 
ern conceptions  of — ,  405- 
406 

Religions  Systems  of  the  World 
(work  of  reference),  439, 
442,444 

Remanatio,  380' 

Renaissance,  Persian  — ,  352, 
375-376,  465 

"  Renegades  "  (Ahlu'r-Ridda), 
194 

"Return"   (Rij'at),    310-311, 

3*3,  327-328,  363,  435 
Rhag»,  26.    See  Ray 
Rhazes,  363.    See  -Razi 

Rhetoric,  380,  473 
Rich,  Claude  I.  — ,  64 
Richardson  (Persian    lexico- 
grapher), 57 

Rida,  Imam  'All  — ,  284,  429 
Rida-quli  Khan  (Persian  his- 
torian and  writer),  170,  312, 

449 
Rida-quli  Khan  of  Behbehan 

(dialect  poet),  87 
-Rida,  -Sharif  — ,  207.     See 

-Radi 

Rieu,  54,  450 
Rila    b.     -Walid     -Isfahan 

(Samanid  po«t),  365 
Hij'at.     See  Return,  Ueletn 

psychoiit. 


?isala-i-Hawraiyya,  416 
tisala-i-Qushaynyya,  417 
Rivayats    (Zoroastrian),    48, 

i°5 
Roman,  Alexander  the  — ,  118, 

139.      See  also    Ale.vandfi- 

the  Great. 
Romans,  305 
Rome,  40,  382,  472 
Rope-trick,  431 
Rosen,  Baron  Victor  — ,  15 
Rosenzwcig,  444 
Rosenzweig-Schwannau,  361 
Roth,  68 

Royal  Splendour"   (Farr-i- 

Kayani),  128,  137,  143,  144 
Ruba'i,   472-473,   476.       See 

Quatrain 
Ruckert,  389 
*Rudagi  (Persian  poet),   13, 

19-17,  82,  340,  398-396,  359, 

368,  452,  454,  W5-488,  473 
Rue  (sipand),  used  as  a  fumi- 
gation against  the  Evil  Eye, 

452 
Ru'in     Dizh    ("the    Brazen 

Fortress"),  147 
Rn'in-tan  (epithet  of  Isfan- 

diyar),  150 
Ruknu'  d-Da\vla  (Buwayhid), 

364 
Ruku'  (position   in    prayer), 

412 

Rum,  480 

Rumi.    See  Valalu'd-Din 
Ibnu'r-Rumi  (poet),  357 
Ruqayya   (daughter   of    the 

Prop'hetX  214 

Ibn  Rushd,  40.     See  Averroes 
Rustam  (mythical  hero),  116, 

117,  269;  —(general),  117, 

182, 194-195,  197-198 
-Rustami,  Abu  Sa'id  —  (poet), 

268,  374 
R  viands  Library,  449,  452 


S  (Sanskrit)  =  H,   Persian), 

34 

Sabaans,  302-306,  384,  387 
Sabalan  (mountain),  325 
Sabat  Abi  Nuh  (place),  396 
Sabbath  =  Shanbadh,  160 
-Sabi  ("the  Sabaian"),  Ibra- 
him b.  Hilal  — ,  372 
Sab'i,    Sab'iyya,    407.      See 

Isma'ilis,  Sect  of  the  Seven, 

&c. 
-Sabiq  ("  the  Pre-Existent "), 

414 

Sabuklagin,  371,  372,  376 
Sachau,  Dr.   E.  — ,  123,  154, 

158,  163   169,  247,  308,  318, 

352,  469 

Sacrament  of  Babak,  327 
de  Sacy,  Silvestre  — ,  53,  57 

58,  59,  61,  63,   70,   71,   393 

407,  410-415 
Sa'd  b.  Abi  Waqqas,  194,  196- 

199,388 
Sa'd  of  Warawiu,  478 


Ibn    Sa'd    (secretary    of 

-Waqidi),  284.  345 
Sadah  (Festival  of),  m 
Sadaqat  (Alms),  201 
Sad  Dar  (Zoroastrian   Cate- 

chisni),  43,  109 
*Sa'di  (Persian  writer),  52,  85, 

139,  145,  294,  343,  389,  423, 

137 
*Safar-iiama      of      Nasir-i- 

Khnsraw,  80,  400 
Safawi  Dynasty,  294 
-Saffah,    210.        See    Abu'l- 

'  Abbas. 
Saffari  Dynasty,  6,   13,    341, 

346-349,  352-355,  359,  445, 

450,  451,  453,  473 
Sag  (dog),  26 
Sagartia,  33 
Saghani  (Chaghani)  Dynasty, 

244 
Sagistan    (Sistan),    Wonders 

of — ,  109.    See  also  Sistan 
Sahibu'1-Amr,  414.     See  also 

Mahdi 
-Sahib  Isma'il  b.  'Abbad,  374, 

375,  446,  453,  4^3,  464,  466, 

Sahib'u'1-Khal,  402 
Sahibu'n-Xaqa,  402 
Sahibu'sh-Shama,  402 
Sahibu'sh-Shurta  (Captain  of 

the  Guard),  432 
Sahibu'z-Zaman,     408.     Sec 

also  Mahdi 

Sahibu'z-Zanadiqa     (Inquisi- 
tor   appointed    to    detect 

Manichaeans),  158,  307 
-Sahili  (of  -Bukhari),  351 
Sahl  b.  'Abdullah  of  Shushtar 

(mystic),  357 
Sahl   b.    Haruu    (-Ma'inuu  s 

librarian),  267 
Ibn  Sahl.    See  Hasan  b.  Sahl 

and  Fadl  b.  Sahl 
Abu  Sahl  -Nawbakhti,  429 
Said    [b.    'Abdu'l-'Aziz  .  .  .]. 

governor  of  Khurasan,  237 
-Sa'id,  -Amir  — .     See  Nasr 

II  b.  Ahmad 
Sa'id  b.  -'As,  216 
Sa'id   b.    Batriq,    366.       Sec 

Euiychiits 
Said,  grandson  of  -Oaddah, 

409.       See      'Ubaydu'llah 

-Mahdi 

Sa'id  -Harashi  (general),  322 
Sa'id     b.     -Musayyib     (tra- 

ditionist),  273 
Abu   Sa'id  b.   Abu'l-    Khayr 

(Persian  mystic  and  poet), 

371,  416,  437 
Abu  Sa'id  Hasan  b.  Bahrain, 

402.    See  -yannabi. 
Abu    Sa'id    Muhammad    b. 

Mudhaffar  b.  Muhtaj  -Sa- 

ghani  (Chaghani),  461 
Abu  Sa'id  -Naqqash  (author 

of  a  History  of  tke  Sufis), 

436 
Abu   Sa'id  -Rustami  (poet), 

268,374 


INDEX 


Saint-Martin,  65 

-Saji,  Abu  'Ali  —  (poet).  475 

-Sajjad.    Sec  Zaywi'l-'Abidin 

Saka,  94 

Sakisa  (harper),  18 

Sal'a,  192 

Saladin    (Salahu'd-Din),    54, 

o?98 
Salamanca,  40 

Salamiyya  (in  Syria),  40 

Sale's  Alcoran,  187,  188 

Salemann,  70,  83,  107,  479 

Salih  (prophet),  387 

Salth  (Persian  accountant), 
205 

Salih  b.  'Abdu'l-Quddus(poet), 
307 

Abu  Salik  of  Gurgan  (Persian 
poet),  355,  453 

Salisbury,  E.  — ,  203 

Salm,  115,  116,  128 

Abu  Salma  (Abbasid  propa- 
gandist), 243,  246,  257 

Salman  the  Persian,  203,  204, 
297 

Salman  Sawaji  (Persian  poet), 
437 

Sahvtonassar-Sargon,  20 

Salsette,  103 

Sam.    See  Shan 

Sam  (the  son  of  Xariman), 
116 

Saman,  207,  352,  461,  467,  468 

Samani,  Dynasty,  6,  15,  16, 
123,  207,  317,  34i,  346,  348, 
352,  354,  355.  358.  359,  363, 
365,  367,  368,  371,  372,  374- 
3/6,  396,  445.  446,  45°,  451, 
453,  455,  456,  460,  461.  463, 
465,  467-  474,  477 

-Sam'ani,  456 

Samaria,  20 

Samarqand,  164,  456, 

Samarra,  342.  See  Surra- 
man-ra'a 

Samawa,  Vale  of  — ,  174 

Sam  it   (in   Isma'ili   system), 

409,  413 

Samma'  ("Listener,"  "Audi- 
tor," a  grade  of  the  Mani- 
chjeans),  159, 165 

Samnan,  86 

San'a  (in  -Yaman),  176,  273 

Sana'i  (Persian  mystical  poet), 
416,  437 

Sanam  (stronghold  of  -3fu- 
qanna',  q.v.),  321 

Sani'a  (a  governor's  follow- 
ing), 233 

Snnjan,  Story  of—,  47,  109 

Sanskrit,  34,  37,  56,  59,  63,  64, 
67-69,  89,  106,  167,  419,  477 

Sapid -Jamagan("  the  White- 
clad"),  318.  See  -Mubay- 
yida. 

Sara,  Saraw  (in  Azarbayjan), 
325 

Sarakhs,  35,  244 

Sargon, ai 

Abu  Sarh,  216 

Sari  -Raffa  (poet),  306-307, 

Sarv  (or  Sun-),  115 


-Sarvi  (or-Sarwi),  Abu'l-'Ala— 

Shabib  b.  Dah  (one  of  Abu 

(poet),  476 

Muslim's  da'isj,  310 

Sasan,  117,  n8,  122,  137,  139- 

Shabib  b.  Yazid-Shaybani,  232 

142,  268 

Shabistari,  Mahmud  —  (author 

Sasanian  Dynasty,  4-7,  9-12, 

of  the  Gttlslian-i-RtK),  444 

14-18,  31,  36,  87,  39,  97-88, 

Shaburqan  (book  of  Manes 

61,  67,  70-71,  78,  79,  89,  91, 

composed  for  Shapur),  154, 

93,  96,  97,  103,  104,  108,  111, 

156,  158,  163,  165 

117-122,  127-184,  212,  229, 

-Shafi'i,  -Imam  —  ,  277,  295,  386 

283,  299,  262,  309,  364,  388, 

Shafi'ite  school,  294-295 

392,  419,  480 

Shahan-shah,  Title  of  —  ,  66, 

Satagydae,  94 

7i,  75,  76 

Satih  (soothsayer),  173-174 

*Shahid  of    Balkh   (Persian 

Saturn  (planet),  458,  461 

poet),  453,  484,  455 

Savary  de  Breves,  41 

Shah-i-Zanan,       131.         See 

Sawa,  Lake  of  —  ,   173-174  ; 

Shahtbamt. 

—  Town,  244 

*Shahnama       ("  Book      of 

Sawad,  196.    See  Chaldaa 

Kings  ")  of  Firdawsi,  I  s,  60, 

Sawad  b.  'Amr,  192 

79,  88,   108,  110-123,  '136 

Saxons,  5 
Sayce,  Professor  —  .  64 

138,  140-142,  144-149,  147 
190,  151,  166,  169,  872,  460, 

Sayf  b.  Dhu  Yazan,  178-181, 

464  ;  Arabic  translation  of 

262 

—  by-Bundari,  43,  us  464  ; 

Sayfu'd-Dawla,  370-372,  446 

of   Daqiqi,  372,  460,  473  : 

Saysaniyya        (Bih-afaridh's 

other  Persian   versions  of 

followers  so  called),    310 

—  ,    123  ;   —  of    Gushtasp 

-Sayyid-Himyari,  276 
Savyidu't-Ta''ifa   (Junayd  so 

(=  Yatkar-i-Zariran,  q.v.), 
1  08.  See  also  Kluiday-nama 

called),  427 

Shah-Parand  (grand-daughter 

Sayyids,  101 

of  Yazdigird  III),  317-318 

Schefer,  85,  86,  169,  171,  312, 

-Shahrazuri    (biographer    of 

313.  353,  374,  400,  456,  478 

Philosophers),  293 

Schmidt,  C.  —  ,  160 

Shahr-banu,  Bibi  —  (daughter 

Schmolders,  212 

of    Yazdigird   III,   said  to 

Scholastic    Philosophy,    381, 

have  been  married  to  -Hu- 

382,  386,  422 

sayn    b.    'Ali,    the    Third 

Schultz,  63 

Imam,  and  therefore  called 

Sciences,  Classification  of  —  , 

"  Mother  of  Nine  Imans  "), 

379-383 

130-133 

Scorpion,  Tresses   compared 

Shahr-baraz    (usurper),    129, 

to  —  ,  461 

174,  182 

Scot,  Michael  —  ,  40 

Shahr-gir,  147,  150 

Scotch  and  English,  33 

*Shahristani   (author  cf  tlie 

Script  and  creed  associated 

Kitabu'l-Milal  it-a  '/i-.Y;/,-.//  >. 

in  East,  8-9 

199,  169,  220,  221,  279,  289, 

Sebeos,  168 

296,  310-311,  312,  313,  3M, 

"Sect  of  the  Seven,"  130,  229. 

322,  323,  328,  396,  420 

296,  352,  391-415.    See  also 

Shahriyar  (father  of   Yazdi- 

Carmathians,   Ghulat,    7s- 

gird  III),  195 

ma'His,P'athnidCaliphs,&c. 

Shakespear,  13,  82 

"Sect  of   the  Twelve,"  130, 

Shakir  (da'i  of  -Hallai,  q.v.), 

229.  246,  283,  296,  302,  393, 

431 

413,  429     See  Shi'iks. 

Ibn  Shakir,  331 

Sects  of  Islam,  279.    See  also 

Abu  Shala'la,  397 

Ibn  Haztn,  -Shahristani 

Shamanists,  163 

Seleucidse,  480 

Shamsa  (in  Pahlawi),  58 

Seligmann,  12,  450,  478 
Selim  I  (Ottoman  Sultan),  209 

Shams-i-Qays  (Persian  writer 
on  Prosody  and  Rhvme), 

Seljuqi  Dynasty,  6,  312,  348, 

473 

449,  451'  464.  "474 

Shams-i-Tabriz  (Persian  mys- 

Semitic  influences   on    Per- 

tic and  poet),  167,  420,  440 

sians,  36,  37 

Shamsu'd  -  Din  -  Andakhudi 

Sennacharib,  20 

(author  of  an  Anthology  of 

Ibn  Serapion,  367 

"  post-classical  "        Arabic 

Serpent,  World  compared  to 
—  467 

poets),  448 
Shamsu'd-Din  Iltatniish,  450 

Seth,  162 

Shamsu'l-Ma'ali.    See  Qabiis 

Seven,  The  Number  —  ,  146, 

b.  Washmgir 

310,  408-412 

Shanbadh  (=  Sabbath),  160 

Severus,  Bishop  —  ,  399 
Shabdiz  (horse  of  Khusraw 

Shapur  (place  in  Pars),  123,151 
Shapur  1,  10,  93,  103,  138,  150- 

Parwlz),  17,  18 

159.266 

INDEX 


Shapur  II,  75.  <xi.  o"  101 
Shaqiq  of  lialkh  (mystic),  290 
-Sha'rani  (rfa'i    of"  -Hullar. 

q-v.),  435 
Shargh  (or  Targh  ?  =  Chakhra 

of  Vendidad),  35 
-Sharif-i-Mujallidi      (Persian 

poet),  15,  18 
Ibn  Sharwin  (Prince of  Taba- 

ristan),  329 
Shathil  (Seth),  i«>2 
-Shaybani,  'AH  b.  Harun  — 

(Samanid  poet),  365 
-Shaykhu'l-Yunani,    Plotinus 

so  called  by  the  Muslims, 

430 

Shea,  54 
Sheba.  Queen  of  — ,  385.    See 

Bilqi*. 

Shell,  Lady  — ,  312 
Shekina,  128 
Shcm,  114,  116,  409 
-Shibli  (Sufi),  298, 367.  433, 434 
Shibl  b.  -Munaqqa-Azdi,  32* 
Shid(=Khshaeta),  113 
Shihabu'd-Din     Suhrawardi, 

423 

Shi'ites.  98,  100,  101,  130,  131, 
203,  214,  220,  228-229,  231, 
232,  888.  238  240,  243,  248 
247,  398,  276,  278,  279-280, 
283  285,  292,  296-296,  310 
311,  3M>  315.  328,  342-343, 
345-  348,  349,  350,  382,  358, 
360,  362-363,  364,  367,  375, 
386, 391-415  passim,  4*9. 43O, 
437.  See  also  Carmathians, 
Fatimiit  Calif>ln,  Ghulat, 
hmn'ilis,  "Sect  of  the  Seven," 
"Sect  of  the  Twelve" 

Shikand-guntanik-vijar  (Pah- 
lawi  book),  106,  157 

Shimr,  225,  226,  228,  230 

Shi'r  (Poetry),  Etymology  of 
the  word,  451 

Shiraz,  19,  70,  85.  364,  437 

Sblrin  (mistress  of  Khusraw 
Parwiz),  17 

Shirin  (Sirin),  ouc  of  the 
captives  of  Jalula  and  his 
sons,  204,  263 

Shiru'e,  56,  113,  174, 181 
Abu  Shu'ayb  Salih  b.   Mu- 
hammad of  Herat  (Persian 
poet),  454 

*Abu  Shukur  of  Balkh  (Per- 
sian poet),  466-407 

Shurat  (".Sellers"  of  their 
lives),  221.  See  Kltarijites 

Shushtar,  434 

Shu'ubiyya,  265-269,  277  278, 
336,  345.  357 

Sibawayhi  i  (grammarian), 
261,  276-278 

Si-bokht,  146 

Siddhanta  (  =  Sindhind),  i-o 

-Siddiq  (name  of  a  class  of 
Manichxans  and  origin  of 
name  Zindiq,  q.v.),  160, 165 

Sidra  Rabba  (book  of  Man- 
daeans),  302 

Sifatiyya  (sect),  879 


Sitiin.  Battle  of  — ,  218-119, 

221 

Sifru'l-Asfar  ( M  a  u  i  c  h  x  a  n 

book),  156 
Sifni' l-yababira  (Manichaean 

"book),  156 
Signacula  oris,    manuum  et 

sinus,  165 
Sikandar-     (or      Iskandar-) 

fiama    of     Xidhami      of 

Ganja,  119 
Ibnu's-   Sikkit    (grammarian 

and  Shi'ite),  343,  345 
Silhin  (fortress  in  -Yaman), 

175 
-Simari  (disciple  of  -Hallaj), 

431-432 
Simjur,  466 

Simplicius  (\co-Platonist),42I 
Simurgh  (mythical  bird),  121 
Ibn  Sina,  40.    See  Avicenna 
Sinan,  Abu  Sa'id Harrani, 

304 

Sinan  b.  Thabit  b.  Qurra,  367 
Sinbadh  the  Magian,  311,  313, 

3M.  323 

Sind  (=Hincl),  34,  347 
Sindhind  (^Suldhaiita),  160 
Sinimmar  (Sinnimar),  175 
Sipand  (=Rue,  q.v.),  452 
Sipihri  (Persian  poet),  468 
Siqadanj  (near  Merv),  242 
Sirafi  (grammarian),  372 
-Sirat,  Bridge  of  — ,  107 
Sirawand  (near  Xishapur),  308 
Sirri  JSaqati  (Suf i),  424 
Si-riua  (Zoroaslrian),  48,  101 
Si  stan  (Sagistan,  Sajistan),  87, 

100,  116,  117,    123,    205,    317, 

346,  347,  350,  359,  448 

Siwand  (dialect  of  — ),  26-27, 
87 

Siyamak,  112 

Siyaq  (form  of  cypher),  67 

*Siyasat-natna  ("Treatise  on 
Government ")  of  the  Nidh- 
amu'1-Mulk,  169,  171-172, 
312,  313,  323,  324,  328,  349, 
383,  401,  456 

Skudra,  94 

de  Slane,  Baron  McGuckin— , 
208,  320.  See  Ibn  Khallikait 

Slavery,  186 

Smerdes  (=Bardiya),  31,  32 

Social  Code  of  Zoroastrians, 
1 08 

Socialism,  170 

Socin,  83 

Solomon,  112-114,  385 

Sol-takin,  263 

"Sons  of  Tenderncs>."  164; 
" —  of  Knowledge,"  164  ; 
" —  of  Understanding," 
164-165;  "—of  the  Un- 
seen," 165  ;  " —  of  Intelli- 
gence," 165.  See  also  Mani- 
clutans,  who  are  divided 
into  these  live  grades 

"Sons  of  the  Nobles" 
(Ratw'l-Ahrar),  Persian 
Settlers  In  -Yaman  so 
named,  181 


Sophists,  381 

<ro<f>o£ ,  269,  417 

Spain,  o,  a'5-    ^5    -5«.  266, 

279,  294.  34",  38i 

Trcuea    (Medic     word     for 

"  dog  "),  26 
Span     (Avestic      word    for 

"dog"),  26 
Spada,  64,  94 
Spencer,  Mr.  — .  47,  So 
Spendedat    (Isfandiyadh,  Is- 

fandiyar),  116 
Spiegel",  33.  3$,  62,  63,  66,  68, 

91,  116,  155,  161,  162 
Spitta,  290,  291 
Sprenger,  188,  452 
Sstt/wmt/s  (by  Tholuck),  362 
Stakhar  Papakano(=  Istakhr), 

97, 118,  139 
Stanley  Lane-Poole,  214,  254. 

See  also  Lane-Poole 
Steiner,  279,  281,  280,  288,  289, 

293 

Steinschneider,  368 
Stolze,  64, 153 
SM-yasht,  97 
Strabo,  5 

2rj>6uxa«/C.  23--4 
Stylite,  Joshua  the  — ,  134 
Subject  Races,  235  237.  241. 

247.      See    also     Mtncali. 

Racial  Feflinf 
"Sub-Parthian,"  coins,  80 
"Subsequent"    (in     Isma'ili 

System),  414 
Suf  ("wool"),  297 
Sufi  System,  Brief  outline  of 

— ,  438-444 
Sufis,  167-168,  282,  293,  296 

301,  352,  361-363,  367,  373, 

386,  416-444 
Sufis,  History  of—,  by  Abu 

Sa'id-Naqqash,  436 
Sufyan-Thawri    (Sufi),    417, 

418,  424-426,  434 
Abu  Sufyan,  215,  261 
Sughd,  35,  04,  164,  268,  322, 

33L  333 

Suhrab  (Rustam's  son),  116 
SuhraV,  325 

Suhuf(of  Abraham),  113 
Sujud  (position  in    Prayer), 

412 

Ibn  Sukkara,  348 
-Sukkari  (philologist),  357 
-Sukkari,   Abu'1-Fadl— (poet), 

476 
-Sulafa  (one  of   the   names 

given  to  Shahr-banu,  q.v.). 

13' 

Sulayman  Mountains,  372 
Sulayman.  See  Solomon 
Sulayman  (Umayyad  Caliph), 

215 
Sulayman  b.  'All  (uncle  of 

-Saffah,  the  first    'Abbasid 

Caliph),  254 
Abu  sulayman  Muhammad 

b.  Nasr'-Busti  -Muqadda*! 

(one  of  the  Ikhu-anus-Saf*, 

?-V.),  293 


INDEX 


Tmmm  \\rnt  S** Tm 

~rt»mim  (fa*i  «•! 


uft    SeeahoTw 
Tafcfcarirtas.  a**.  K7 
TV  (KM  of  Feridnx  "5-  n& 


INDEX 


519 


nian  and  (keck  character. 

Turkish  peoples,  Persian 
literature  produced  by  — , 
3 ;  antipathy  bttvtu  — 
and  Persians,  1*6,  zaB,  *£. 

Turktstan,  434 

TVS  (town  in  Khurasan  V  123  ; 

—  identified  with  Unra  of 

theATesU 
Twelve  Gospels  (MantchaeuX 

156 
Twelve,  The  Nosaber  — ,  408, 

414 

Tychsen.  57.  58, 60,61,  71 
Typal  Love,  442 
Typofraphy.  Oriental  — ,  41 

U 

•Ubayd-i-Zakani        (Persian 

satirical  poet).  ?Sc. 
Abu  '  Ubayda  -Jarrab,  297 
Abu'    -Ubayda    Ma-mar    b. 

•Muthanna       (Iranophile 

_-«-  -•_  -*    -+-   ^  * 

scnoiar),  309,  277 

the  [Fatimid] 

b.     fibril     b. 
t-Yishn'    (physicianX 

•uSjdaTlah  b.  'Umar,  215 

•OTMsaififsai  (Zoroastrian 
109 

SeeGteJW 


of  the  Ancients  ^414 
•Uman.  aoi.  359 
•Umar  b.  -ln«?Jt^t'  (Orthodox 

CattphX  S«.  130, 133. 174. 104, 

I9&  196.  199.  aoa,  aoi  aos 

aio,  213.  ai4,  ais  229,  235. 

a*X  897,  34$,  $49,  391,  437, 

452 
•Umar  b.  •Abdnl-Azis  lUmay- 

yad  CafiphX  215.  219.  254- 

••Umara,  Abu  Manser  —  of 

Merr  (Persian  poetX  467 
•Umayr  (officer  of   -Abdul- 

Umayya.  j'u 

Unuyyad  Ci'.:phi.    ic;    :r; 


MS  *4S 


Uatty  (Wahid-.  19  in   Babi 
Unmrsai  Reason   Unirersal 


-  of 


OJnrari  (Persian  poet). 


Iba 


(!*>*••••     Bl 


•Urfa,  134 

Una  (oTVendid 


Ushhanj.iw. 

Uthmooayn,  Bbbopnc  of  — , 

(htrabrchX    *47. 


-•Utbi 


194.  195.  *io.  aia-aiiX  aao, 


-Urbmaa      "Said      b 

v.-:er  .   -xt*  "a£*" 
Sayyid  —  of  Tabaris- 

ur     (of     Ibn 
QataybaX  15.  »77 


Vach-  (roofj.  17 
Vaekereta(of  VeadUM,  iden- 

tined  with  KatoIX  35 
Valerian  (Emperor),  151 
Van.  63 

VanWwn  (dialect  of —X  27 
»Van  \1oten. 

*1 


Varena.Tbeu 

— .  an,  3S  114 
Vatican  (Library  X  450 
Vaughan's  Hcurt  wiOt    Ac 


y    ;cc.  ;c:, 


Vegetarianism 

ancient  Persians.  115 
Vehrkana(Hyrcania.Gflr9mX 


419 


•'Veiled  Prophet  of  Khun- 
san.'  H7.  y&-3*3-  See 
-Xmqiuuut'. 

Vendidad,  as  16.  aR.  34,  44, 

4>47  .48.  97-9*  141.  «>9 

Vtuus  ,A:iir::a.    X..:::.:,    M 


Ml 

4    5-465    4" 

\TcarofBray.sJo 


CP 


Society.  444 

.-f  :5:e  1  -irk* 
^by  -Jahidh  oa  — v  351 

fa  «x.X  aSTfiiToa,  95-05. 

116,  144 

\lsperad,  A  09  ^ 
Viranha.  vlianjhan,  114 

viv.ikt:li  QMin^  n 


Vbaer.   See  If  «tf  r. 
Voha-mano,  97, 117.    See  also 


Ibn Wadih.  150.  See  -Tm 
Wahb  b.  Munabbih,  a?3 
Wakkabisect.aai 
WaWd  (Babi -Unity 'of  19). 


rbnrt.WahskiTya.3S7 

-Waod4(UmaTyad    CaiphX 
"5.J3I.317 
bL^qba,  216.118 

'Wj*«**| **•    •AbdTBah 

.  Vsosw  ] 
Wamiq: 
of— ,12.347  _ 

JJ4- 


dUteUirianX  sol.  «T7. 


Wasil  bL-Ata-Ghasa: 
of  Mi 


.J4= 


-Wasit  (town),  joa.  349,  435. 
•Wathiq    CAbbasid  CaiphX 


of- 

Wea.  Dt  Gnstar  — .  211. 27* 
Wessex.5 

West  Dr:  E.  W.  -k  57, 59.  fit, 
70.  81.  oS.  103-106.  109.  151. 
159.169 
\VcstfT£xard.  43. 64.  «B 

—.10.4* 


of  —.  Sec 


WoWe  TQM  (Irish    patriot.X 


52O 


INDEX 


Wool  typifying  renunciation, 
297, 417, '430.  See  Pashnuna- 
tiusli,  Sttfi 

world  compared  to  snake, 
467 

"World-wise"  (Hakimatu'd- 
Dahr  in  Manichrean  sys- 
tem), 162 

Worm  of  Kirman,  138,  145- 
150 

Wright,  Dr.  W.  — ,  134,  169, 
191,  221,  375 

Writing,  Art  of  —amongst 
ancient  Arabs,  261  ;  — 
amongst  ancient  Persians, 
9 ;  —  highly  valued  by 
Manichreans,  165  ;  cf.  431 

Wustenfeld,  160,  272,  273,  321, 
387 


Xenophon,  91 

Xerxes,  56,  61,  79,  92,  113 


-Yafi'i,  424 

Yahya-Barmaki  ("  the  Barme- 
cide "),  259,  277 
Yahya  b.  Bitriq,  277 
Yahya   b.   Ma'adh    of   Ray 

(mystic),  323,  418 
Yahya  b.  Masawayh,  345 
Yahya  b.  Zayd  (g'reat-grand- 

son  of -Husavn).  122 
Abu   Yahya   Tahir"  b.  -Fadl 

-Sagbani  (Chaghani),  Amir 

—.467 
Yaksum   (Abyssinian    King), 

178 
Yama  (in  Hindu  mythology), 

56,  80, 113 
-Yaman  (-Yemen),  152,  173- 

176,  178,  180,  181,  183,  192, 

201,  244,  262,  263,  358,  382, 

388,  402,  405 
Yaminu'd  -Dawla.    SeeA/a/t- 

miid  of  Ghaxna 
Yaminu  d  -  Din      Faryumadi 

(Persian  poet),  437 
Ya'qub  b.  Layth  -Satfari,  13, 

346-348,  349,  352-354.  473 
Ya'qub  (grandson  of  'Amr  b. 

Layth  -Saffari),  359 
*-Ya'qubi     (historian),     110, 

1S1,  130  181,  155  187,   158, 

169,  829,  230,  231,  239,  241, 

244,  246,  307.  314,  317,  318, 

321,  323,  357-388 
Yaqut   (geographer),  14,    15, 

321 
Yasar  (Persian  captive),  263, 

266 

Yashts,  97,  100 
Yasna,  44,  48,  63,   67,  68,  99 

104 
Yathrib   (ancient    name    of 

-Uutttna,  q.v,),  132 


(of-Tha1- 

alibi),86B-8fl«,368,374,  375. 

440-447,  450,  453,   IU-M0 

470,  474.  475,  4/6 
Yaikar-t-Zariran  (Pahlawi 

romance),  9, 108,  121, 138 
Yazd,  26,  27,  83,  86, 109,  343 
Yazdan-Gushnasp,  129 
Yazdigird  I,  135,  166 
Yazdigird  III,' 6, 120, 122. ISO- 

132,  168.  174,  182,  199,  200, 

220,817 
Yazid  I   (Umayyad  Caliph), 

219,  224-238,  228,  230 
Yazid  II  (Umayyad  Caliph), 

216,283 
Yazid  III  (Umayyad  Caliph), 

219,  318 
Yaiiid  b.  -Muhallab  (general), 

263 

Yazidi  sect  ("  Devil-worship- 
pers"), 304 

"  Year  of  the  Ass,"  241 
"  Year  of  the  Elephant,"  173, 

174 

Yeats  (Irish  poet),  447 
Yellow  garments  prescribed 

for  unbelievers,  343.     See 

also  'Asal-i  diikhta 
Yima     (=Yama,     Jamshid, 

q.v.),  56.  80,  113 
Yishu'-bokht,  145 
Yudan  -  Yim  (Zoroastnau 

priest),  105 
Yuhanna      b.       Masawayhi 

(translator),  305 
Yusuf-Barm  (heresiarch),  247, 

3i8 
Yusuf  b.  'Umar  (Governor  of 

'Iraq),  233 
*Yiisufu  Znlayklia  (of  Jami), 

439,' 4*2, 444 
Abu  Yusuf,  349 
Abu  Yusuf  Ya'qub-Ansari 

(Hanafite  doctor),  276 
Abu  Yusuf  Ya'qub  b.   Ishaq 

-Kindi,  356.    See  -Kindi 
Abu  Yusuf-Qati'i,  302 


Zab  (river),  245,  247 

Ibn     Zabala     (historian     of 

-Madina),  277 
Zabulistan,  116 
Zadan,  son  of  Karrukh 

(Persian  accountant),  205 
Zagros  Mountains,  19 
-Zahi  (poet),  370 
Zahir   (Dhahir)    of    Faryab 

(Persian  poet),  389 
Zahiri   (or  Zahirite)   school, 

357.    See  also  Dhahiri 
Zahra    ("the    Bright,"    i.e., 

Fatima,  q.v.),  131,  132 
Ibn  Abi  Zakartyya  (heretic), 

359.  3<J7 
Zal  (father  of  Rustam),  116. 

121 
Zamakhshari  (commentator), 

269,  289,  292 


Zamzama   ("mumbling"  of 

Magians),  309,  310 
Zandakih,     159.      See     also 

Zindiq.  Manicluxans 
Zandaniji     (or    Zand-pichi), 

468 
Zanj  Rebellion,  349-350,  356, 

401 

Zanj  an  (town),  325,  378 
-Zanjani    (-Zinjani),    Abu'l- 

Hasan    'Ali    b.     Harun  — 

(one   of  the  Ikhwamt   's- 

Safa,  q.v.),  293 
Zaradusht.    See  Zoroaster 
Zaradushtakan,    Sect   of  — , 

169.    See  Matdak 
Zaratusht.    See  Zoroaster 
Zaratusht-Khurragan  (master 

of  Maxdak,  q.v.),  169,  170 
Zaratitsht-Hama,  43,  109 
Zaraiva  (old  Persian  book), 

336 
Zargun  (near  Persepolis),  70 

Zariadras,  Romance  of  — , 

121 

Zarir,    Romance    of  — ,  9, 

108,  121,  138 

Zanvan    Akarana  ("  Bound- 
less Time  "),  414 
Zawzan,  308 
-  Zawzani,  Abu  'Ali  —  (Sama- 

nid  poet),  365 
-Zawzani,  Abu    Muhammad 

'Abdu'1-Kafi  —  (author   of 

Hainasatu    'dh-Dhurafa), 

454 

Zayd-'Alawi,  315 
Zaydb.  Rifa'a   (one   of   the 

Ikhwanu  's-Safa),  293 
Abu     Zayd     (Governor     of 

'Uman),  201 

Abu      Zayd  -  Balkhi      (geo- 
grapher), 372 
Zaydan  (or  Dandan),  407 
Zaydi  sect  (of  Shrites),  392 
Zaynu'l  'A'bidin  (fourth  Imam 

of   the  Shi'ites),   229,    239, 

409 
Zayiiatu'z  Zatnan  (Biography 

of   poets  by  -Andakhutli), 

448 
Ibnu'z  -Zayyat,  164,  253,  331- 

333,  35i 

Zefre  (dialect  of  — ),  27 
Zend,    22-25,    43-44,   56,    58, 

78,    79,    8i.     See    Avestti, 

Avestic 
Zhukovski,    Valentin  — ,    27, 

83,  416 
Zikrawayhi         (Carmathian 

leader),  358,  359,  402 
Zindiq  (pi.    Zanadiqa),    155. 

159.    303,    307,    4*i.   43'J; 

Meaning    and    etymology 

of  the  term — ,   159.      See 

also  Uanichaans 
Ziyad  b.  Jariya-Tamimi,  272 
Ziyad  b.  Labid,  215 
Ibn  Ziyad,   'Ubaydu'llah  — , 

225,  226,  228,  230 
Ibn  Ziyad,  father   of  Ja'far, 

307 


INDEX 


521 


Dynasty,    359,   360, 
364-365,  367,  37i.  376,  446, 


453,  466,  469,  471. 
:oha 


Zotiak,  Zuhak,  Zahhak.  See 
Dahak 

Zopyrus,  121 

Zoroaster,  4,  25,  28-31,  34,  49- 
54.  56,  5»,  88-  95-  96.  102, 
116,  118,  120,  123,  127,  154, 

159,   162,  163,    173,    200,    201, 
206,  046,    247,   263,    309,    310, 

315.  334  :  —  identified  with 
Abraham,  113 ;  name  of  — 


changed  to  Muhammad  on 
conversion  to  Islam,  263 

Zoroastrian  Literature,  7,  8, 
43,  44,  46,  118 

Zoroastrian  Priests,  135,  166, 
169,  202,  206 

Zoroastrian  Religion,  6,  9,  23, 
24,  30,  34.  36,  4*.  45-47, 
127,  161,  165,  167,  170,  171, 
202,  203,  206,  301,  414,  459- 
460 

Zoroastrians,  200-202,  206- 
207,  23*.  303,  343.  352,  375. 


448,  459.    See  also  Guebres 

M  agio  us 

Zoroastrian   sympathies   im- 
puted to  Barmecides,  259 
Zotenb«rg,  H.  — ,  369, 455, 478, 

479 

-Zubayr,  217,  388 
Ibn-Zubayr,  228-231 
Zubur.    See  Psalms  of  David 
-Zuhri   (theologian),  263,  272, 

273 
Zuwarishn,      7,      73.        See 

Huzvansh 


Printed  in  Great  Britain  by 

TCTWIH  BROTHERS,  LIMITED,  THE  GREBHAM  FKBBS,  WOKCtG  AND  LONDON 


35 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

Return  this  material  to  the  library 

from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


01 

JUN  1  9  2003 


REC'DYRL  -8171 


101 


